{"Comments": "HOW THE WEST SOUTHWEST WAS WON OVERRUN On the ranch they had found points from both the Clovis and the Folsom. For the eight thousand years between Folsom and the Spanish, no one knew what happened; there had been people here the whole time, but no one knew what they were called. Though right before the Spanish came there were the Mogollan and when the Spanish came there were the Suma, Jumano, Manso,<---M> La Junta</---M>, Concho and Chisos and Toboso, Ocana and Cacaxtle, the Coahuiltecans, Comecrudo\u2026but whe HOW THE WEST SOUTHWEST WAS WON OVERRUN On the ranch they had found points from both the Clovis and the Folsom. For the eight thousand years between Folsom and the Spanish, no one knew what happened; there had been people here the whole time, but no one knew what they were called. Though right before the Spanish came there were the Mogollan and when the Spanish came there were the Suma, Jumano, Manso, La Junta, Concho and Chisos and Toboso, Ocana and Cacaxtle, the Coahuiltecans, Comecrudo\u2026but whether they had wiped out the Mogollon or were descended from them, no one knew. They were all wiped out by the Apache. Who were in turn wiped out, in Texas anyway, by the Comanche. Who were in turn wiped out by the Americans. A man, a life\u2014it was barely worth mentioning. The Visigoths had destroyed the Romans, and themselves been destroyed by the Muslims. Who were destroyed by the Spanish and Portuguese. You did not need Hitler to see that it was not a pleasant story.<---F> And yet here she was</---F>. Breathing, having these thoughts. The blood that ran through history would fill every river and ocean, but despite all the butchery, here you were. <+++>The Son</+++> is a magnificent family saga, covering two hundred years of Texan, but more significantly American history. Do not be fooled into thinking this is just a book about the Longhorn state. In the same way that Billy Lynn's Long Half-Time Walk (<---B>also set in Texas</---B>) took a specific day to stand for an entire period, <+++>The Son</+++> takes a much larger swath but remains a stand-in for the nation as a whole. A ranching and oil dynasty rises in parallel with the USA rising as a global power. Items covered include the settlement of Texas by Americans, Indian Wars (sometimes from the perspective of the Indians), The Civil War, WW I, WW II, the Depression. Economic shifts, rise of oil in international importance, significance of corruption in government, impact of increasing difficulty of drilling in the USA and rise of the Middle East as the world\u2019s major source of oil, including some economic intrigue involving the use of insider information. The misuse of the land is raised, as is the complicated relationships between residents of Mexico, Texas, and some who traveled both sides of the border. Meyer splits the task of looking at different times in American history among three members of the McCullough dynasty. Eli McCullough is the patriarch of this clan, born not on the Fourth of July, but on the Second of March, 1836, otherwise known as Texas Independence Day. He is, literally, the first Texan. (Well, as with the US Declaration of Independence, it was not completely Ok\u2019d until the next day, but who\u2019s counting?) and is as large a character as the state itself. We meet him when he is 100 years old, in 1936, looking back on his life and times, (a la Jack Crabb in Thomas Berger\u2019s Little Big Man ) and some bloody times they were. Early settlers into what was still Mexico overwhelming the locals with numbers and guns. Bloodshed aplenty as a new population displaces current residents, whether Mexican citizens or one of the many Indian tribes in the area. Eli is captured by a Comanche raiding party that kills and abuses most of his family. Later he becomes a Texas Ranger, as a substitute for criminal prosecution, making the Rangers remind one of the French Foreign Legion. The second perspective is that of Jeanne Anne McCullough, Eli\u2019s great-granddaughter. We meet her at age 86, injured, on the floor of her home in 2012, and are treated to her recollections as well. She is the primary female character here, a crusty old bird who is also shown in softer light earlier in her life. But while softer, Jeanne was still tough even as a kid, eager to cowgirl up, take on tasks usually reserved for men, and was unable and unwilling to adapt to the very different expectations of northeastern refinery. Adaptation, and recognizing change, seeing the truth in front of her, or not, figures in her journey. She will use ill-gotten knowledge for personal gain some day. Finally there is Peter, born in 1870, one of Eli\u2019s sons, and Jeanne\u2019s grandfather. Peter is the superego to Eli\u2019s id. He struggles with what he sees as excessive violence in which his father revels, and tries as best he can to act in a moral way. I found Peter\u2019s character to be the most real of the three. Constantly having to manage moral as well as physical conflict. He is the romantic of the crew. You will love him. We see all three come of age in very different ways. Eli is taken captive by raiding Comanches as a thirteen-year-old (view spoiler) [but over an extended period, relying on his courage and quick wits, he learns the rules and the ways of the tribe, coming to see many things from their perspective, and becomes a respected leader. We get to see him again, struggling to adapt to white society while still a teen. (hide spoiler) ] We see Jeanne wanting to be who she is but struggling against the bias of the age that preferred its women less hardy, adventurous and determined. We see Peter struggling to reconcile his family and community responsibilities as a young man with the cruelty of his father and the racist townspeople determined to drive out the other , who happen to be people he knows, respects and even loves. There is enough carnage in The Son to make fans of Cormac McCarthy lock and load. One particularly brutal event is nothing less than anti-Mexican pogrom. And there is enough political inspection to make fans of Steinbeck perk up when Eli says things like: let the records show that the better classes, the Austins and Houstons, were all content to remain citizens of Mexico so long as they could keep their land. Their descendants have waged wars of propaganda to clear their names and have them declared Founders of Texas. In truth it was only the men like my father, who had nothing, who pushed Texas into war. Meyer also notes several instances in which the victors write history that is distinctly at variance with how events actually occurred. There is a lot in here about how change sweeps in and the present is always in the path of a rampaging future, whether one is talking about wilderness being replaced by farming and ranching, working the land being replaced by digging through it, or one population displacing another. Meyer highlights a major theme of the book when the last Comanche chief is found to be carrying a copy of History of the Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire . Meyer takes on some regional stereotypes as well. There is a myth about the West, that it was founded and ruled by loners, while the truth is just the opposite; the loner is a mental weakling, and was seen as such, and was treated with suspicion. You did not live long without someone watching your back and there were very few people, white or Indian, who did not see a stranger in the night and invite them to join a campfire. The Teggs-us Rangers of the mid 18th-century would seem to have had a lot more in common with The Dirty Dozen than they might have had with Seal Team Six. It is also clear that there has been little change in the fact that governments often want services but are not always eager to actually pay for them. The corruption of those in power seems constant across the time-scape here. Wandering notions. We are always on the lookout for possible connections to the classics. There are some here but they do not seem central. The Eli of the bible lives to 98 and has a son named Phineas. This one lives to 100 and also has a son named Phineas. One might see in the Comanche raids here a link to the Philistine raids of the earlier time. Also Eli was cursed by God that his male descendants would not see old age. This is not entirely the case here, but the death rate is alarmingly high for this Eli\u2019s progeny through the generations. There is a Ulysses in this story, who, like his namesake, goes on a quest. And Eli is referred to in this way as well, in Peter\u2019s diaries: I began to think how often he was home during my childhood (never), my mother making excuses for him. Did she forgive him that day, at the very end. I do not. She was always reading to us, trying to distract us; she gave us very little time to get bored, or to notice he was gone. Some children\u2019s version of the Odyssey , my father being Odysseus. Him versus the Cyclops, the Lotus Eaters, the Sirens, Everett, being much older, off reading by himself. Later I found his journals, detailed drawings of brown-skinned girls without dresses\u2026.My assumption, as my mother told us that my father was like Odysseus, was that I was Telemachus\u2026now it seems more likely I will turn out a Telegomus or some other lost child whose deeds were never recorded. And of course there are other flaws in the story as well. But ultimately, I do not think there is a core classical reflection at work here, just a bit of condiment for the large meal at hand. In an interview with the LA Times , Meyer cites among influences Steinbeck, Joyce, Woolf and Scottish writer James Kelman. I am sure those with a greater familiarity with works by those authors will find many connections in The Son that my limited knowledge prevented me from seeing. The Son is Meyer\u2019s second novel, well, second published novel anyway. He wrote a couple before American Rust was published in 2009. He wrote that while in an MFA program in Austin. He has it in mind that this book, which was initially called American Son would form the second volume of a trilogy. It is even more impressive when one considers that Meyer was born in Baltimore, in a neighborhood known more for John Waters films than Indian wars and oil booms. Family sagas can be fun reads, long, engaging and hopefully educational. They can, of course, be over-long, post too many characters to keep track of and become tedious. Sometimes, though, they exceed all expectations and levitate above the crowd in the genre due to the craft of their creation, the quality of their characters, and the depth of their historical portraits. Some, like Gabriel Garcia Marquez\u2019s One Hundred Years of Solitude , Margaret Mitchell\u2019s Gone with the Wind , and Pearl S. Buck\u2019s The Good Earth rise to the level of literature. The Son also rises. The trade paperback edition came out on January 28, 2014 ================================ EXTRA STUFF 5/21/13 - Rave review from Ron Charles of the Washington Post Author\u2019s page Wiki 2010 LA Times interview with Meyer 5/29/13 Meyer was interviewed yesterday on the WNYC Leonard Lopate program - definitely worth a listen 6/20/13 - Janet Maslin's NYTimes review, The Glory and Brutality of a Purebred Texan Clan 12/16/13 - The Son was named one of the best fiction books of 2013 by Kirkus 4/14/14 - The Son was one of three finalists for the Pulitzer ...more I'm really dumbfounded what happened here. A cursory glance at this and I'd expect this to rank high on an all time list: it's a huge sweeping multigenerational epic, covering huge swaths of American history; it's a postmodern tale of the American West replete with blood lust, scalp-hungry marauding Indians, vigilante ranchers, and oil barons. It's socially and politically subversive, in that it both challenges how frontiersmen confronted race and privilege as well as exposing America's less tha I'm really dumbfounded what happened here. A cursory glance at this and I'd expect this to rank high on an all time list: it's a huge sweeping multigenerational epic, covering huge swaths of American history; it's a postmodern tale of the American West replete with blood lust, scalp-hungry marauding Indians, vigilante ranchers, and oil barons. It's socially and politically subversive, in that it both challenges how frontiersmen confronted race and privilege as well as exposing America's less than honorable methods of procuring land and fulfilling Manifest Destiny. So much potential. While the bones of the story kept me reading, the writing felt hackneyed, lacking elegance, lacking rhythm, and lacking a distinct voice. The whole of the novel 'told' the reader the story rather than 'showing'. In my experience, novelists that tackle the American West should have the requisite rhythm to mirror the subject. And perhaps that is expecting a bit much, but the lack thereof made reading this almost a chore. And while it was clear Meyer did his research, not all of said research was completely seamlessly integrated. I say that because I noticed he did his research, rather than it simply buoying the story. ...more There\u2019s no way I\u2019m going to call this the great American novel. I would have to define what that meant, and I\u2019d have to support it, and then I\u2019d have to argue with everyone trying to convince me of Moby Dick \u2019s essential worth. No, we\u2019ll leave that useless conversation to the all the kids just heading back to school. They\u2019ve had the whole summer off, eating ice cream, skating on skateboards, shouting too loud after 10 p.m. when I\u2019m trying to sleep \u2013 let them solve the literary, philosophical, and There\u2019s no way I\u2019m going to call this the great American novel. I would have to define what that meant, and I\u2019d have to support it, and then I\u2019d have to argue with everyone trying to convince me of Moby Dick \u2019s essential worth. No, we\u2019ll leave that useless conversation to the all the kids just heading back to school. They\u2019ve had the whole summer off, eating ice cream, skating on skateboards, shouting too loud after 10 p.m. when I\u2019m trying to sleep \u2013 let them solve the literary, philosophical, and existential questions of our time. Even if there is such a thing as the great American novel, <---A>Philipp Meyer</---A>\u2019s The Son would not grab that ring. That requires the test of time. It is, however, an instant classic. More specifically, it is a great American novel. Stress the American. Its themes and tropes are quintessentially American: part captivity narrative; part conqueror\u2019s arc; part rags-to-riches. The main characters \u2013 the scion of the McCullough dynasty and his heirs \u2013 embody the American character, both mythological and real: courageous, self-reliant, industrious, violent, moralizing, hypocritical, and endlessly rationalizing. It\u2019s the story of how America came to be, as well as the story of how Americans came to see ourselves. Also, it\u2019s beautifully written and gloriously fun to read. Things that are also important in a classic. Or so I tried to convince my English teachers, to no avail. The Son chiefly follows three members of the McCullough family: Eli McCullough, a famed Texas Ranger turned rancher turned oil man; his son, Peter, who struggles in his father\u2019s violent shadow; and Jeannie, Eli\u2019s great-granddaughter, who shares many traits with Eli despite her gender. The stories of each of these characters is told in chapters devoted solely to them. The individual chapters unfold chronologically, following their own arc, but the timeline as a whole twines in and out. That is, Eli\u2019s chapters, which run from the 1830s to the 1860s, are interspersed with Peter\u2019s chapters, which mostly takes place in 1917, and Jeannie\u2019s, which ranges from 1926 to the 1980s. (There is overlap, of course, such as when Eli shows up in Peter's chapters. But even when that happens, it is peripheral, since the chapters stick close to their chosen character). Each of these character-chapters are told in a different style. Eli\u2019s story is told in the first-person, from the point-of-view of an aged Eli giving a recording for the WPA. Peter\u2019s tale unfolds as a series of diary entries. Jeannie\u2019s chapters are presented in the third-person limited perspective; when we first meet her, she is an old woman who has fallen on the floor and can\u2019t get up. As she lays there, she looks back on the momentous events of her life. (The conceit for Eli\u2019s and Peter\u2019s stories are kind of ridiculous. I doubt that Eli, a staunch opponent of Franklin Roosevelt, would have deigned to participate in a program that was one of the centerpieces of the New Deal. Even if he had, he wouldn\u2019t have gone into the murderous detail that he does. The same with Peter and his diary. Does anyone write long pages of dialogue in their diaries? No, of course not. Still, this novel is so good that I forgive it\u2019s somewhat silly storytelling mechanisms). Of the three separate plotlines, Eli\u2019s is the most vivid and gripping. It begins in 1849, on the eve of a sudden Comanche raid on his family\u2019s homestead. The lead-up to the massacre is as tense and unforgettable as anything in The Searchers . The massacre itself is a terrifying explosion of violence that is masterfully effective in mixing the graphic with the discreet: [M]ost of the Indians were standing looking at something on the ground. There was a white leg crooked in the air and a man\u2019s bare ass and buckskin leggings on top. I realized it was my mother and by the way the man was moving and the bells on his legs were jingling I knew what he was doing to her. After awhile he stood up and retied his breechcloth. Another jumped right into place. I had just gotten to my feet when my ears started ringing and the ground came up and I thought I was dead for certain\u2026A while later I heard noises again. I could see the second group of Indians a little farther down the fence but now I could hear my sister\u2019s voice whimpering. The Indians were doing the same to her as my mother\u2026 Young Eli is taken captive by the Comanche. Eventually, he is adopted into the tribe, taking quickly to their way of life. Slowly, the Comanche, who first appear as shadows and demons during their midnight raid, are revealed as people. Eli\u2019s adoptive father, Toshaway, is far more important to Eli than his biological father ever was. Eli\u2019s time with the Comanche is this novel\u2019s great achievement. The research that went into the evocation of their vanished way of life is amazing (I wish Meyer had included a bibliography, or at least a mention of the books he used). Just as great an accomplishment are his Comanche characters. In a book that doesn\u2019t have a lot of space to devote to secondary characters, Toshaway, Nuukaru, and Escute make lasting impressions. Their profane dialogue, studded with f-words and detailed sexual banter, sounds a bit anachronistic. But it also sounds like the way friends talk amongst themselves. Instead of Indian characters who are either inhuman savages or noble gamekeepers (the Dances With Wolves dichotomy), you get Indian characters who are simply human. Everything about Eli\u2019s early story is essential, dealing as it does with the thin line between life and death. Against this fundamental drama, the Peter and Jeannie chapters necessarily suffer by comparison. Of the two, I enjoyed Jeannie\u2019s storyline the best. It took awhile for me to become invested, but Meyer ultimately provides her with two or three or four beautiful vignettes that efficiently and effectively describe the course of her life. Especially memorable is Jeannie\u2019s short-lived time at an Eastern prep school. There, a Texas ranch girl among preppy bluebloods, Jeannie undergoes a less violent, mirror-twinned version of her great-grandfather\u2019s captivity. Peter\u2019s story worked the least. The reason, I suppose, is that Peter is saddled with the weight of being the moral compass of the McCullough family. This makes him a good guy but also a wet blanket. His chapters take place during a time of high tension on the Tex-Mex border, when America almost went to war with Mexico. He is witness to a brutal confrontation between his family and a neighboring ranch owned by a man named Pedro Garcia. The climax to this neighborly squabble ultimately defines the brooding, philosophical-minded Peter. About half-way through The Son , I began to wonder if Meyer hadn\u2019t shot his bolt early on. Eli\u2019s opening act, the massacre of his family, his captivity, his transformation into the Comanche warrior Tiehteti, are so vital and breathless, that they couldn\u2019t possibly be sustained. However, despite a drop in dramatic urgency, the novel itself never falters. The three interweaving plot threads all inform each other: in one chapter, a character is alive and young; in the next, he or she might be old or a ghost, but still resonating. There is an incredible cumulative effect created by Meyer\u2019s framework. The Son weighs in at around 550 pages. Not short, but certainly not terribly long, either. Especially not for a canvas this large. Meyer\u2019s creations could easily have expanded into a book the size of War and Peace (and I would have gladly read every page). Despite the relative brevity, the unfilled spaces in the lives of these characters, The Son achieves almost perfect balance. I thought about these fictional people long after I finished the novel. It\u2019s ending \u2013 especially the last lines \u2013 are haunting. There are so many comparisons to be made to other great works. If I were being pithy, I could say that The Son has a bit of the stark violence of Blood Meridian or In the Rogue Blood ; the elegiacal tinge of Lonesome Dove ; along with a splash of Dallas as viewed through the prism of the Hatfield and the McCoy\u2019s. Really, though, it\u2019s a damn fine American novel telling a thoroughly American story. ...more A great read for me\u2014I could hardly put it down. Everything is big in Texas, and in this saga a family line gets big in alignment with a big history. Luckily it doesn\u2019t do a Michener of trying to cover a vast epoch using a huge cast. Meyer sticks stays mostly with three fascinating and complex characters of three different generations of the McCulloch family, spanning about a century and a half. The frontispiece contains the lineage for the three: patriarch Eli, his son Peter, and great-granddaugh A great read for me\u2014I could hardly put it down. Everything is big in Texas, and in this saga a family line gets big in alignment with a big history. Luckily it doesn\u2019t do a Michener of trying to cover a vast epoch using a huge cast. Meyer sticks stays mostly with three fascinating and complex characters of three different generations of the McCulloch family, spanning about a century and a half. The frontispiece contains the lineage for the three: patriarch Eli, his son Peter, and great-granddaughter Jeannie, whose alternating voices spin out the tale. The period for Eli covers from the time of early Anglo and German immigrant pioneers to a south Texas border zone between the Nueces Rio Grande Rivers, the transition from open range cattlemen to fenced ranching, a and larger wave of settlement stimulated by the rise of railroads. I will reveal nothing more than to say that Eli\u2019s development is bound up with his early experiences with the Comanches, a wandering and dangerous life with the Texas Rangers, and struggles to build a ranching empire after the Civil War, which together makes a substantial and enthralling part of this book. Eli and Peter are both marked from events surrounding the brutal competition for land and dominion between the new settlers and Spanish families in residence for a century or more. But they are shaped in opposite ways. Eli sees himself part of the primeval trend that is well captured by the theme in Mitchell\u2019s \u201cCloud Atlas\u201d: \u2018The weak are meat the strong do eat\u2019, while Peter seeks to walk the walk of peace and tolerance. From the first pages, Eli, the \u201cColonel\u201d, is reflecting back from age 100, so we know he thrived, while by page two we know that somewhere along the line Peter has disappeared. Eli\u2019s outlook is steeped in the harshness of a dog-eat-dog world: The Spanish had been in Texas hundreds of years but nothing had come of it. \u2026The Lipan Apaches stopped the old conquistadores in their tracks. \u2026Then came the Comanche. The earth had seen nothing like it since the Mongones; they drove the Apaches into the sea, destroyed the Spanish army, turned Mexico into a slave market. \u2026The Comanche philosophy toward outsiders was nearly papal in its thoroughness: torture and kill the men, rape and kill the women, take the children for slaves or adoption. Still, he disarms us with his irreverent humor: The thing about preachers \u2026 is if they ain\u2019t sparkin\u2019 your daughters, or eatin\u2019 all the fried chicken and pie in your icebox, they\u2019re cheatin\u2019 your son on horses.\u201d . Also in the first pages the voice Jeannie appears, also reflecting back from old age, 86, many years later. As a tomboy in love with the ranch and land, she admired ancient Eli above all. In Sunday school as a girl she recalls: When she asked the teacher what would happen to the Colonel \u2026the teacher said he was going to hell, where he would be tortured by Satan himself. \u2018In that case, I am going with him\u2019, Jennie said. She was a disgraceful little scamp. She would have been whipped if she were Mexican. Where the privileged sons of the family wander away from home base, Jeannie fulfills the mission of Eli to grow the family wealth by becoming an oil tycoon. Though she is not a warm person, we root for her to succeed at this man\u2019s game. While in Jeannie\u2019s first section her disappeared grandfather Peter is not anyone she thinks about( \u201cno one had anything good to say about him\u201d), Peter\u2019s story from his journals makes him the moral compass of the saga. He bears the sins of the fathers, and in response he transgresses the rules of the culture. He goes along with his father in the first steps to convert the ranch to oil production, but his heart isn\u2019t into dynasties. His despairs of human destructiveness: The entire earth, it seems, is being slowly transformed into a desert; mankind will die off and something new will replace it. There is no reason that there should only be one human race. I was likely born a thousand years too early, or ten thousand. One day those like my father will seem like the Romans who fed Christians to the lions. \u2026 What we need is another great ice to come and sweep us into the ocean. To give God a second chance. These three voices were incredibly real for me, revealing characters of mythic proportions, but achingly real. Most of all, I appreciated the sense of place evoked in the story. I lived for a time in the Hill Country of Texas, which ends just to the north and east of this sparsely populated area of dry grassland, Dimmit County. Thus, I could relate to the flora and fauna, such as the cottonwoods and live oaks, the hawks and vultures. I miss those vistas beneath the big sky that makes you feel small and large at the same time. How does one make a mark of the history of a place so big, and how does one emerge from a history that marks you with terrible sacrifices? Jeannie, despite all her successes, can\u2019t help feeling alone and small. The year Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, she reflects that \u201cit had not surprised her. The year he died, there were still living Texans who had seen their parents scalped by Indians. The land was thirsty. Something primitive still in it.\u201d I was moved to experience how her outlook comes to be a hybrid of her forbears Eli and Peter: A man, a life\u2014it was barely worth mentioning. The Visigoths had destroyed the Romans, and had themselves been destroyed by the Muslims. Who were destroyed by the Spanish and Portuguese. You do not need Hitler to see that it was not a pleasant story. And yet here she was. Breathing, having these thoughts. The blood that ran through history would fill every river and ocean, but despite all the butchery, here you were. \u2026Even if God existed, to say he loved the human race was preposterous. It was just as likely the opposite \u2026The strong took from the weak, only the weak believed otherwise, and if God was out there, he was just as the Greeks and Romans suspected; a trickster, an older brother who spent all his time inventing ways to punish you. As you can tell, I highly recommend this book. It gave me some of the same pleasures of life's triumphs and losses against the backdrop of history of the American West as McMurtry's \"Lonesome Dove\". ...more An epic tale of family set in a state big enough to bear the weight of legend, The Son follows three generations of the powerful McCullough family of Texas: \"Colonel\" Eli McCullough, the rough and tumble patriarch of the family, whose past includes being a Comanche captive and assimilated tribal member, Texas Ranger, Civil War Confederate, and Texas land baron; his son, Peter, a gentle soul tied to the land, but whose conscience weighs on him after his family's participation in the slaughter of An epic tale of family set in a state big enough to bear the weight of legend, The Son follows three generations of the powerful McCullough family of Texas: \"Colonel\" Eli McCullough, the rough and tumble patriarch of the family, whose past includes being a Comanche captive and assimilated tribal member, Texas Ranger, Civil War Confederate, and Texas land baron; his son, Peter, a gentle soul tied to the land, but whose conscience weighs on him after his family's participation in the slaughter of their Mexican neighbors and subsequent land grab; and Jeannie McCullough, the granddaughter of Peter, who shuns society's gender defined role to become the family's first powerful matriarch in the wake of the Texas oil boom. Their stories are inextricably bound to the violent birth and coming of age of Texas. Through his exploration of the chains of familial duty and legacy, Meyer is depicting more than just the turbulent years of our country's pioneering past. Texas serves as a microcosm through which Meyer skillfully explores the cyclical rise and fall of empire: the success of a tribe or a country or a family is written in the blood of another, one generation crashes into the next, a king must fall before \"the son\" can take his place. And yet it's more than that--when men build empires, they stare into the abyss of their own mortality and try to leave their mark on a world and a history so vast, so infinite that even the most significant of lives will eventually be consumed and forgotten. Passing the torch to the next generation becomes the only form of immortality one can hope for. But what happens when the next generation wants to build their own legacy, or can't make peace with the sins committed in their family's past? This is particularly evident in the chapters following Peter McCullough, a man defined by a guilt that's not his own, and also in the chapters about Jeannie McCullough, a woman who has to blaze her own trail to keep the family name alive. The chapters about Eli McCullough are the most engrossing and Meyer doesn't pick sides in presenting the ensuing conflicts between pioneers and the Native Americans. There is no noble savage here; the Comanche are capable of stomach-churning violence (raping and mutilating Eli's mother and sister before his eyes, torturing enemies in their camp, raping and brutalizing captives), but they are also compassionate and funny in their relationships with one another. The same is true of the pioneers--engaging in unspeakable acts of cruelty against the Comanche and other tribes, they are not monsters entire. Instead, both sides are all human with \"Something of the reptile in us yet, the caveman's allegiance to the spear.\" The fight for land and dominance was not unique to the whites as it is ingrained in human culture to take from those who are different and whose ways one does not understand. An overall excellent novel, the only reason I'm giving it a 4 out of 5 star is because it is grim reading, which made me long for a bit of Larry McMurtry's ability to balance grim reality with the humor in life. Also, I found the presentation of the three differing narratives perplexing. The Eli and Peter chapters are told in first person, while Jeannie's are told in third (which may be to show her struggle for \"voice\"). Eli's chapters are originally presented as the result of an interview done at the end of his life, but do not read as an interview. Peter's chapters are told in the form of a diary, which reads like no diary ever kept by anyone in human existence. Instead, they read just like novel narrative, continuing for pages with exact dialogue and lengthy descriptions with little to designate them as diary entries other than the occasional insertion of a date. These conventions, the interview and the diary, seemed unnecessary and were at times off-putting. There was little to differentiate the voices of Eli, Peter, and Jeannie, but maybe that's the point--that theirs is the voice of history relating a story that will be told time and time again with no one learning its lessons. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder and at Shelf Inflicted ...more Starts impressively but overall, feels too deliberate, too polished, too forcibly epic. Weird proofreading errors in several places. The narrative frame collapses about a third of the way through, just, utterly. The most compelling sections are those from Peter McCullough's diaries. He is, by far, the moral compass of this novel and the most well-drawn character. At times, the book reads like a history textbook. Absolutely grating. Too much of the writer inserting himself in the prose at times. Starts impressively but overall, feels too deliberate, too polished, too forcibly epic. Weird proofreading errors in several places. The narrative frame collapses about a third of the way through, just, utterly. The most compelling sections are those from Peter McCullough's diaries. He is, by far, the moral compass of this novel and the most well-drawn character. At times, the book reads like a history textbook. Absolutely grating. Too much of the writer inserting himself in the prose at times. The ending is rushed. If you're going to write an epic, write an epic. Jeannie, as the woman out of place and time, is so clich\u00e9d, spouting everything you would expect a woman who doesn't fit in with women or men to say. A total missed opportunity. The women are mostly narrow, and essentially serve as sexual vessels in one form or another. This is a man's book, for sure, and I get what the overall project is here, re: creation myths and the American west and so on. It's a good Western. It is not... the book of the year. Don't get me wrong, Meyer is very talented, but this book is not nearly as good as the \"buzz\" suggests. And I'm probably wrong on this, and it's just me, but ugh, not my cup of tea. I feel like...I'd rather read Michener. ...more It\u2019s a great thing, reading something and knowing your list of favourite books is probably changing. I wasnt halfway through before I knew this would be a favourite, as long as he didnt screw up the end (he doesn't). By the end, I thought that the Great American novel is alive and well - and this novel is an instant classic. I have to wear two hats, booklover and bookseller, so why don\u2019t I divide this review that way: BOOKLOVER First off, this book is so up my alley it\u2019s not even funny. Echoes o It\u2019s a great thing, reading something and knowing your list of favourite books is probably changing. I wasnt halfway through before I knew this would be a favourite, as long as he didnt screw up the end (he doesn't). By the end, I thought that the Great American novel is alive and well - and this novel is an instant classic. I have to wear two hats, booklover and bookseller, so why don\u2019t I divide this review that way: BOOKLOVER First off, this book is so up my alley it\u2019s not even funny. Echoes of Hemingway and Steinbeck, McCarthy, McMurtry\u2019s westerns, even a little Twain in a section or two \u2013 but Meyer makes it his own, it doesn\u2019t feel like a straight aping, or a stealing of anyone\u2019s style. Meyer\u2019s own voice and concerns come through \u2013 and those concerns are: the legacy (and tyranny) of family and of violence, the cost and human expense of one culture's rise over another, conquest and displacement, family heritage and free will, bloodlines and bloodshed \u2026 it\u2019s a western only on the surface, the way the all the best modern film westerns are \u2013 Unforgiven is more than a western (its just disguised as one), same as The Wild Bunch, Seven Men from Now, Once Upon a Time In The West ... Any of the three storylines could be a novel on their own, but the fact that there are three, woven together, and the timing on the POV switches is what makes this a great thing. There\u2019s far too much capital L \"Literature\" out there that is just boring. The Son works as story, which to my mind is the writer\u2019s job - more important than inquiry, exploration. Entertain me, take me off this boring streetcar, take me somewhere. This book does that \u2013 and as a bonus, it offers all the insights and questions about people and relationships that the literary novel does. That\u2019s why it wins \u2013 so few books can do both. And Meyer still has passages and sentences that make you put the book down for a second in admiration, though he's not showing off at all. This is a five star, and I'm not sure the last time I assigned that to a novel. Probably The Sisters Brothers, and that may have been too generous. I don\u2019t throw around the 5 star ratings. This is one, no doubt. I will be re-reading it, and that's probably my benchmark. That gets a book on the 'favourites' shelf. BOOKSELLER It certainly pulls you along, despite its length. He does alter his pacing near the last third, and at first it's jarring, but its soon apparent - tension is ramping up. It\u2019s hard to read in spots; there's no sugarcoating on the violence, and he doesn't let you imagine it for yourself. I wonder how women will approach it \u2013 it\u2019s pretty male, and not just because it\u2019s a western on the surface. Obviously, that\u2019s my bias, but it\u2019s a pretty guy book. But perhaps this isn't fair'; if the three characters share equal 'screen time' in the book, the primary female character is just as well drawn and conceived as the males, perhaps even more so. Without spoilers, it follows a Texas family from early 1800\u2019s to now, centering on three family members from different generations, two of them male. Begins with one character\u2019s abduction, and eventual adoption, by Comanches after his family is slaughtered (full disclosure, some passages are not for the fainthearted) - and then returning to the white world and becoming a cattle baron. The other characters being his son, and his great granddaughter. He (the patriarch) tells his own story in first person, his son\u2019s story is told through his diary, and a third person narration for his great granddaughter \u2013 without spoilers, her story starts with her presiding over a rich oil empire, on the verge of death, and the reveal is how she got there. The writing is fantastic, the plotting, pacing and the structure is pretty much perfect, the characters are rich and well defined \u2013 but again: most of all, it\u2019s just a pleasure to read. You know you have a thing when you are considering calling in sick to stay home with your book. Without looking too hard at the past few novels I\u2019ve read, I can say that at least the last three didn\u2019t compel me to pick them up, and the experience of reading this novel was the complete opposite. I am curious right now (two months away from publication) how much it will break out. I would bet my hat it will get a National nomination, but I am so close to this kind of thing that I wonder about my judgment. The British (I believe) have a saying along the lines of \u201cIf you like this kind of thing, then you\u2019ll like this.\u201d I do very much like this kind of thing \u2013 the literary western part, anyway (I\u2019m not generally drawn to sweeping, majestic, multi-family epics). It deserves to sell by the boatload, and every American nomination that its eligible for. If you're a fan of muscular, gritty fiction, you should get on this right away. If you loved McCarthy's westerns, Lonesome Dove, East of Eden, Cold Mountain, Ron Rash's Serena, or Tom Franklin's Smonk, you need to put down whatever you're reading and pick this up. ...more Edit :: 02/20/14 After some consideration I have decided to link you to Will's review instead of writing my own. As is often the case, his review hits it out of the park. This book. EPIC. I disappeared for a few days while reading it! I was late picking up a child. I passed on a night out with a friend. I kept my eyes down whilst walking my dog. Real life? So. Intrusive. That's all I've got for now. \"Remember that,\" he sad, \"None of it's worth a shit until you put your name on it.\" -- Philipp Meyer, The Son There are certain rare novels that brilliantly capture the art, heart, and action of both American fiction and history. 'The Son' is one of those historical novels that can absolutely propel the reader. Its narrative strength, however, is equaled by its artistry and its multi-generational, multi-narrative, epic arc. 'The Son' captures the tension between land and people; the contest betwe \"Remember that,\" he sad, \"None of it's worth a shit until you put your name on it.\" -- Philipp Meyer, The Son There are certain rare novels that brilliantly capture the art, heart, and action of both American fiction and history. 'The Son' is one of those historical novels that can absolutely propel the reader. Its narrative strength, however, is equaled by its artistry and its multi-generational, multi-narrative, epic arc. 'The Son' captures the tension between land and people; the contest between people and people; the struggle between fathers and sons. 'The Son,' is the history of Texas and the West told through three generations of Texans: Eli McCullough (born 1836: the year Texas became a Republic/thesis), his son Peter (born 1870/antithesis) and Peter's granddaughter Jeanne Anne (born 1926/synthesis). This is a novel that is a pure descendant of Melville, Faulkner, Cather and McCarthy. These authors set the stage that allowed Meyer to carve an epic novel out of the rich soil of the Earth and to shoot another Western myth into the the innumerable stars in the sky. I really can't recommend this book enough. One of my favorite books of the last several years. ...more Epic, savage, surly, and brimming with ideas, Philipp Meyer's sweeping historical tale of Texas demands shelf space with Cormac McCarthy and Larry McMurty. Like his predecessors, Meyer illustrates the ruthless, violent forms of blood-spilling murder it takes to build the future of a land. Death begets life. People are conditioned to believe in their rights of land possession, and history point fingers at those who stole land from those that used to occupy it. Wars are fought over territory, and a Epic, savage, surly, and brimming with ideas, Philipp Meyer's sweeping historical tale of Texas demands shelf space with Cormac McCarthy and Larry McMurty. Like his predecessors, Meyer illustrates the ruthless, violent forms of blood-spilling murder it takes to build the future of a land. Death begets life. People are conditioned to believe in their rights of land possession, and history point fingers at those who stole land from those that used to occupy it. Wars are fought over territory, and arguments continue on the authority of the privileged. But, as Meyer blazingly illuminates, the rights of possession were stolen from others, who scalped it from others, who poached it from others... \"...he thought only of the Texans who had stolen it from his people. And the Indians from whom his people had stolen it had themselves stolen it from other Indians.\" \"The Americans...They thought that simply because they had stolen something, no one should be allowed to steal it from them.\" Told from the perspective of three narrators representing three generations of the Texas cattle baron and then oil baron McCullough family, and spanning the 19th-21st century, the tale takes the reader on a ferocious adventure of the birth and expansion of the Texas frontier. The legacies of fathers to sons (and one narrator, a daughter) are tough and soul scorching. The prose is as muscular and sinewy as a prized thoroughbred, the story as pitiless as a rattlesnake in a desert. And yet, there's an undulating tenderness, a tremendous amount of empathy that is elicited from the reader. \"A man, a life--it was barely worth mentioning. The Visigoths had destroyed the Romans, and themselves been destroyed by the Muslims. Who were destroyed by the Spanish and Portugese. You did not need Hitler to see that it was not a pleasant story...The blood that ran through history would fill every river and ocean, but despite all the butchery, here you were.\" ...more This is a big summer blockbuster of a novel\u2014a huge book that can keep one occupied for days. The world looks a little different after a session with it\u2014we feel wonder and regret in equal shares: wonder at human diversity and commonality evident at the same time; regret at our inability to comprehend this and share our bounty until it is too late. Three generations of Texans represented by Eli, Peter, and Jessica struggle through Comanche raids and the discovery of oil from the mid-nineteenth thro This is a big summer blockbuster of a novel\u2014a huge book that can keep one occupied for days. The world looks a little different after a session with it\u2014we feel wonder and regret in equal shares: wonder at human diversity and commonality evident at the same time; regret at our inability to comprehend this and share our bounty until it is too late. Three generations of Texans represented by Eli, Peter, and Jessica struggle through Comanche raids and the discovery of oil from the mid-nineteenth through the twentieth centuries. Eli is the \"son\" about whom the others revolve, and his life is the most finely described and keenly felt. But the time and distance we readers enjoy as the generations play out is what brings the book to fruition: life lessons and realizations about the human condition result. Comparisons have been made of Philipp Meyer with Cormac McCarthy and I can see why: the country is that same hard, brutal, violent landscape that McCarthy paints so memorably. Meyer has his own style, however. Sentences are longer and in this novel the timeline is far longer. He shifts point of view and time frequently, and he writes in the voice of a woman\u2014an unusual woman who often thinks like a man, it could be argued\u2014but that is something I don\u2019t recall McCarthy attempting. The threads come together at the end, and we see who sired whom, and which family is still standing. What is remarkable as the story unfolds, is how the large scope of the story smooths out the individual agonies and gives us instead a kind of justice\u2014what we like to call divine justice\u2014but it is really no more than human history to date. If it went on a little longer, perhaps, the wheel would have turned once again. There may be some in the future who have actually learned from our past, but judging from the folks that survive in this book, the hope is a faint one. Jessica : \u201dBut the slackening. By five she and her brothers were throwing loops. By ten she was at the branding fire. Her grandchildren were not good at anything and did not have much interest in anything either. She wondered if the Colonel would even recognize them as his descendants, felt briefly defensive for them, but of course it was true. Something was happening to the human race. That is what all old people think, she decided\u2026 When the first men arrived, she told them, there were mammoths, giant buffalo, giant horses, saber-toothed tigers, and giant bears. The American cheetah\u2014the only animal on earth that could outrun a pronghorn antelope. Her grandsons \u2026 went inside to watch television.\u201d Jessica : \u201dOf course you wanted your children to have it better than you had. But at what point was it not better at all? People needed something to worry about or they would destroy themselves, and she thought of her grandchildren and all the grandchildren yet to come. Eli : \u201dThat I\u2019d done wrong was plain. I was not thick enough to believe I might have saved the ponies from Ranald Mackenzie\u2019s troopers, but you could never say for certain. A single man can make a difference.\u201d Eli : \u201dToshaway had been right: you had to love others more than you loved your own body, otherwise you would be destroyed, whether from the inside or out, it didn\u2019t matter. You could butcher and pillage, but as long as you did it for people you loved, it never mattered\u2026there is a myth about the West, that it was founded and ruled by loners, while the truth is just the opposite; the loner is a mental weakling, and was seen as such, and treated with suspicion. You did not live long without someone watching your back and there were very few people, white or Indian, who did not see a stranger in the night and invite him to join the campfire.\u201d Peter : \u201dTo listen to the three of them talk about the death of Dutch Hollis, you might have thought there had been some accident, a lightning strike, flash flood, the hand of God. Not my son\u2019s. Had to do it, acted on instinct , the sheriff just nodding away, sipping our whiskey, my father refilling his glass. Considered interrupting them to note that the entire history of humanity is marked by a single inexorable movement\u2014from animal instinct toward rational thought, from inborn behavior toward acquired knowledge. A half-grown panther abandoned in the wilderness will grow up to be a perfectly normal panther. But a half-grown child similarly abandoned will grow up into an unrecognizable savage, unfit for normal society. Yet there are those who insist the opposite: that we are creatures of instinct, like wolves.\u201d Philipp Meyer is a remarkable writer. You really do not want to miss this big, absorbing saga. Meyer has written another novel, American Rust , which was likewise memorable, about living in the Rust Belt in Pennsylvania. These are, for the most part, books about men. But that is fine\u2014he does this with great skill. I think I will always have Meyer on my list of must-reads. ...more This is one of those books that didn't bear the weight of my expectations. Philipp Meyer's The Son certainly has been getting a lot of buzz -- recently named #2 book in Amazon's half-year review/best books of the year (so far) -- but it just seemed to fall short for me in many areas. It is a multi-generational saga, \"epic\" for sure but never quite feeling \"sweeping\" or grand. I thought it started off gangbusters with great potential in the exploration of three eras in Texas history (settlement/I This is one of those books that didn't bear the weight of my expectations. Philipp Meyer's The Son certainly has been getting a lot of buzz -- recently named #2 book in Amazon's half-year review/best books of the year (so far) -- but it just seemed to fall short for me in many areas. It is a multi-generational saga, \"epic\" for sure but never quite feeling \"sweeping\" or grand. I thought it started off gangbusters with great potential in the exploration of three eras in Texas history (settlement/Indians, cattle/Mexican border, oil), but it just never seemed to all come together at once (one storyline gets going at the expense of another). While educational, eye-opening (caveat: there's quite a bit of squirm-in-your-seat violence), and interesting, I still never felt fully engaged/immersed. The connections / ties / legacy between the generations seemed to either be non-existent or a bit forced (the latter, particularly towards the end with an addition -- will just leave it at that, since it is sort of a spoiler-y detail). And finally, and certainly no fault of Meyer's (and returning to those above-mentioned expectations), I could not \"un-read\" the comparisons to James Michener and Cormac McCarthy. I should know better by now that these tend to be tossed around: It's epic, so it's Michener. It's violent, so it's McCarthy. And honestly, I wish this novel was more of either of those two authors. So, a whole lot of good ingredients that ultimately just did not come together in a totally satisfying final dish. But despite what seems to be some clear criticisms above, I was left with an overwhelming hazy feeling of a missed connection -- characters and stories that seemed to be held an arm's length away and wished I could have \"felt\" more. ...more \u201cMi hanno profetizzato che sarei vissuto fino a cent'anni e siccome li ho compiuti non vedo perch\u00e9 dovrei dubitarne. Non morir\u00f2 da cristiano, ma il mio scalpo \u00e8 intatto e se esiste un terreno di caccia eterno, l\u00ec sono diretto\u201d. Nella solitudine della frontiera, la memoria \u00e8 una maledizione, un'inesauribile disgrazia, nella quale la storia individuale e collettiva somiglia a un nero abisso, a un paesaggio desolato dove l'essere umano si perde ineluttabilmente. Nelle praterie del Texas, tra i pasco \u201cMi hanno profetizzato che sarei vissuto fino a cent'anni e siccome li ho compiuti non vedo perch\u00e9 dovrei dubitarne. Non morir\u00f2 da cristiano, ma il mio scalpo \u00e8 intatto e se esiste un terreno di caccia eterno, l\u00ec sono diretto\u201d. Nella solitudine della frontiera, la memoria \u00e8 una maledizione, un'inesauribile disgrazia, nella quale la storia individuale e collettiva somiglia a un nero abisso, a un paesaggio desolato dove l'essere umano si perde ineluttabilmente. Nelle praterie del Texas, tra i pascoli, le terre e i cavalli, le famiglie vengono sterminate, la sopravvivenza degenera in sopraffazione; Meyer scrive una saga familiare sul coraggio, un'epopea di popoli, materie e natura che narra quanto il potere sia marcato dalla sofferenza e esplora le ragioni storiche del declino della societ\u00e0 americana, moralmente contaminata dal demone della grandezza e della ricchezza, mentre le tracce dell'identit\u00e0 spariscono nel vento. L\u00e0 dove erano possibili il sogno e l'ideale, si trova oggi il deserto dell'egoismo, del profitto e della violenza. I protagonisti del romanzo sono come orfani e rinnegati, nel corpo hanno un fuoco rabbioso, una riserva di tristezza; nella consuetudine con gli spazi aperti e le pianure sconfinate, con il cielo da cavalcare, sono convinti dell'eternit\u00e0, ma incontrano l'amoralit\u00e0 della volont\u00e0, la sagoma oscura del male e nel mistero si rivelano incapaci di salvarsi da se stessi, perch\u00e9 \u201cse segui le tue orme abbastanza a lungo, si trasformeranno in quelle di una bestia\u201d. Il legame reciproco e indissolubile fra persecutori e vittime si materializza nel ricorrere storico degli eventi: guerre di confine, scontri armati, incursioni, assassinii, famiglie trucidate, stupri, rapimenti e torture mostrano che la crudelt\u00e0 e la brutalit\u00e0 hanno una forma antica e necessaria e sono testimonianza di leggi arcaiche. Tutte le trib\u00f9 discendono dai prigionieri: indiani, messicani, tejanos. Romanzo western, storico e genealogico, abitato da una lingua complessa e meticcia, con inserti di comanche e spagnolo, \u00e8 la storia scritta di un'epoca perduta, di un intreccio di destini che si esprime in un'epica negativa, che dissolve il mito dell'Ovest: terre, bestiame, armi, donne, tutto si ottiene strappandolo ad altri. Dalle mandrie ai giacimenti, le voci di tre personaggi della famiglia McCullough, il patriarca, il figlio e la pronipote, legate dal nero del petrolio e dal profumo della linfa dei pioppi, si alternano sulla scena raccontando la propria vita e la fragile storia di una dinastia capitalista, destinata a scomparire nel sangue e nella polvere, come gi\u00e0 accaduto all'esistenza sacra e selvaggia dei nativi americani. Quei comanche che precipitano oltre i confini del mondo, in un canto di morte impietoso, in un'estinzione crudele e innaturale che rievoca il suono delle nostre pi\u00f9 profonde paure. \u201cMi sono sempre chiesto dove fosse l\u2019anima, se vicino al cuore o magari attaccata alle ossa, ho sempre immaginato che per trovarla bisognasse tagliare. Ma quelli hanno tagliato da tutte le parti e non ho visto niente. Sono certo che l\u2019avrei vista\u201d. ...more Well, I finished. I read it through to the end. I have to apologize to my friend Diane for giving her the bad advice to snap up the ARC of this that we saw at a book event (because I had already snapped up my ARC at a previous event). This novel has had so much buzz! I listened to and read so many, many positive reviews and I can say that for the most part, I can understand all the buzz. This novel is epic. The subject matter is very interesting (the settlement of Texas) and there were two chara Well, I finished. I read it through to the end. I have to apologize to my friend Diane for giving her the bad advice to snap up the ARC of this that we saw at a book event (because I had already snapped up my ARC at a previous event). This novel has had so much buzz! I listened to and read so many, many positive reviews and I can say that for the most part, I can understand all the buzz. This novel is epic. The subject matter is very interesting (the settlement of Texas) and there were two characters that I found sympathetic. But it's a dude book. Again, I picked a dude book. Not just because it is astonishingly vulgar but this author doesn't have a good sense of what it's like to be a woman. I have new appreciation for male authors that can inhabit their female characters. The characters and their relation to each other was so confusing. If I had a dollar for every time I had to page to the front to double-check the family tree I'd be wearing Louboutins right now. ...more I have no particular affinity for Texas. I don't know and don't care to know the difference between a llano and a barranca or a shotgun and a rifle. But I just spent two weeks with ranchers, Rangers, braves, drillers, riggers, vaqueros and several generations of a fabulously wealthy and powerful family and had a perfectly wonderful time. This isn't the picturesque Old West of saloon brawls, gunfights and fallen women. Nor are there heroes and villains. In this Texas, most everyone kills when nec I have no particular affinity for Texas. I don't know and don't care to know the difference between a llano and a barranca or a shotgun and a rifle. But I just spent two weeks with ranchers, Rangers, braves, drillers, riggers, vaqueros and several generations of a fabulously wealthy and powerful family and had a perfectly wonderful time. This isn't the picturesque Old West of saloon brawls, gunfights and fallen women. Nor are there heroes and villains. In this Texas, most everyone kills when necessary and steals as a matter of course. That's how you gain property and get rich. Eli McCullough, the first of the book's narrators, was born in 1836 on the day Texas became a republic. As an adolescent, he kills Indians when they raid his family's home, kills whites after he is captured by Comanches and assimilated into the tribe, and later kills Indians again as a Texas Ranger. In a pivotal and brutal episode, the McCulloughs, on the pretext of some stolen horses, massacre and appropriate property from their neighbors, Mexicans who generations earlier had taken the land from the Indians. Eli's son, Peter, the second narrator, has a conscience and is scorned as weak by his ruthless father. Peter's granddaughter, Jeannie, takes us to the present day. Patronized as a young woman, she eventually runs the family's cattle and oil empire, is one of the wealthiest women in the world and, in old age, reflects on her life and her family's legacy. The most riveting sections of the book narrate Eli's capture and years with the Comanches. The incidents of violence are shocking and graphic but never gratuitous and the depiction of raids and daily life in the Comanche village avoids clich\u00e9. Less dramatic but equally vivid is the only meaningful stretch of the novel that takes place outside Texas: Jeannie's short-lived sojourn at an elite New England boarding school, a doomed attempt to make her a proper helpmate in the ruling class to which her family aspires. A long, sprawling novel inevitably has highs and lows but there is little in \u201cThe Son\u201d that doesn't hold the reader's attention and drive the story forward. Meyer, whose first novel, \u201cAmerican Rust,\u201d was one of the best of 2009, has produced a sweeping, enormously ambitious and masterly saga. I don't know how to define a \u201cgreat American novel\u201d but if it is one that illuminates something fundamental and true about our history and our mythology and if it is also beautifully written, compellingly readable and with characters that stay with you long after closing the book, Philipp Meyer has produced one. ...more (4.5) Meyer\u2019s sweeping Western saga about one Texas family \u2013 ranging from the 1840s to the present day \u2013 brims with violence and philosophical tension. Like Cormac McCarthy\u2019s Blood Meridian , The Son is a gory Western that transcends the simplistic cowboys-versus-Indians dichotomy to draw broader conclusions about the universality of brutality in a nihilistic world. Encompassing every American conflict from the Civil War through to Iraq, it presents a cycle of warfare that\u2019s as old as the fossils (4.5) Meyer\u2019s sweeping Western saga about one Texas family \u2013 ranging from the 1840s to the present day \u2013 brims with violence and philosophical tension. Like Cormac McCarthy\u2019s Blood Meridian , The Son is a gory Western that transcends the simplistic cowboys-versus-Indians dichotomy to draw broader conclusions about the universality of brutality in a nihilistic world. Encompassing every American conflict from the Civil War through to Iraq, it presents a cycle of warfare that\u2019s as old as the fossils and arrowheads buried in the Texan soil. This momentous American story ranks among the best novels of the new century. (See my full review at The Bookbag .) ...more Update: April 8th, 2017 10 episode series on AMC starring Pierce Brosnan. I loved this book immediately. The characters pull you in and keep you interested from beginning to end. Thankful that the author included the family tree, I frequently reminded myself who was who. Highly recommend this read! This is a review that I originally posted in July, 2014. For some inexplicable reason it vanished without leaving any explanation. Since it is a favorite book of mine, I am re-posting it. Phillipp Meyer\u2019s \"The Son,\" a sprawling multi-generational epic set in Texas (which is always a good place to locate epics, especially the sprawling variety), begins with the family patriarch, Col. Eli McCullough. COL. ELI MCCULLOUGH \u201cMost will be familiar with the date of my birth. The Declaration of Independenc This is a review that I originally posted in July, 2014. For some inexplicable reason it vanished without leaving any explanation. Since it is a favorite book of mine, I am re-posting it. Phillipp Meyer\u2019s \"The Son,\" a sprawling multi-generational epic set in Texas (which is always a good place to locate epics, especially the sprawling variety), begins with the family patriarch, Col. Eli McCullough. COL. ELI MCCULLOUGH \u201cMost will be familiar with the date of my birth. The Declaration of Independence that bore the Republic of Texas out of Mexican tyranny was ratified March 2, 1836, in a humble shack at the edge of the Brazos. Half the signatories were malarial; the other half had come to Texas to escape a hangman\u2019s noose. I was the first male child of this new republic.\u201d He grows up to become one tough hombre. He has not only seen it all, he has lived it. In his lifetime, he was a Comanche captive, Texas Ranger, Confederate colonel, cattle baron, and oil tycoon. Obviously, it had to be a long life -- and it was \u2013 one hundred years. How a young helpless boy at the mercy of his Comanche captors eventually became a wealthy tyrant wielding almost absolute power is at the heart of the novel. PETER MCCULLOUGH \u201cMy birthday. Today, without the help of any whiskey, I have reached the conclusion: I am no one. Looking back over my forty-five years I see nothing worthwhile \u2013 what I had mistaken for a soul appears more like a black abyss \u2013 I have allowed others to shape me as they pleased. To ask the Colonel I am the worst son he has ever had\u2026.\u201d Ron Charles perfectly characterizes Peter in his review in the Washington Post as \u201ca prairie Hamlet among the Texas Medicis.\u201d There is no way that the son can possibly surpass the father when it comes to achievements, or does he even want to. Instead, he is the novel\u2019s conscience and critic. He deplores his father\u2019s status as a giant in the land, but most of all he hates how his father has achieved that status and the harsh measures he resorts to in order to maintain it. There is no reward for such views. In fact, most people see him as a weak man -- and that includes his father. JEANNE ANNE MCCULLOUGH \u201cIf she were a better person she would not leave her family a dime; a few million, maybe, something to pay for college or if they got sick. She had grown up knowing that if a drought went on another year, or the ticks got worse, or the flies, if any single thing went wrong, the family would not eat. Of course, they had oil by then; it was an illusion. But her father had acted as if it was true, and she had believed it, and so it was. \u201c\u2026even as a child she\u2019d been mostly alone. Her family had owned the town. People made no sense to her. Men, with whom she had everything in common, did not want her around. Women, with whom she had nothing in common, smiled too much, laughed too loud, and mostly reminded her of small dogs, their lives lost in interior decorating and other peoples\u2019 outfits. There had never been a place for a person like her.\u201d If the Colonel had a soul mate, it was his great-granddaughter, Jeanne Anne. He had no respect and little love for his son, Peter, or his grandson, Charles, who was Jeanne Anne\u2019s father. However, he doted on Jeanne Anne and she, who never knew her grandfather and also had little respect for her father, returned her great-grandfather\u2019s affection. As far as the Colonel was concerned, Peter was too soft and idealistic and in his own way, so was Charles, who was too tied to cattle and the land. The Colonel understood that down through the ages through war and conquest the land had been won and lost many times and he believed that it was subject to occurring again, that historical progress was a matter of destroying what had come before. Therefore, one should extract what one could from the land while one could. Charles wanted only to be a cattleman, but cattle ranching was a losing proposition. The Colonel\u2019s solution \u2013 and Jeanne Anne\u2019s \u2013 was to drill, drill for oil. Despite his capture as a boy by the Comanches and their initial cruel treatment of him, the Colonel learned not only to respect them, but also to view them as family. They were practically the only people that he held in esteem. He viewed the poor Mexicans of the area as people whose labor was to be exploited. But he also believed that the prosperous Mexicans who owned land were to be exploited as well. He believed that their time had passed and he viewed their property as fair game for the taking -- and he took. His opinion of most of the whites in the area wasn't much higher either, with one exception. He had good things to say about the German settlers living around the town of Fredericksburg: \"Before the Germans came, it was thought impossible to make butter in a southern climate. It was also thought impossible to grow wheat. A slave economy does that to the human mind, but the Germans, who had not been told otherwise, arrived and began churning first-rate butter and raising heavy crops of the noble cereal, which they sold to their dumbfounded neighbors at a high profit. \u201cYour German had no allergy to work, which was conspicuous when you looked at his possessions. If, upon passing some field, you noticed the soil was level and the rows straight, the land belonged to a German. If the field was full of rocks, if the rows appeared to have been laid by a blind Indian, if it was December and the cotton had not been picked, you knew the land was owned by one of the local whites, who had drifted over from Tennessee and hoped that the bounties of Dame Nature would, by some witchery, yield him up a slave.\u201d ...more I started off enjoying the book and was not surprised to learn that Philipp Meyer is influenced by James Michener. I had great hopes that the book would develop into that type of sweeping saga. However by halfway through I was forcing myself to finish it. This multi-generational saga is recounted by three members of the family, but the author does not succeed in really giving them individual voices. The style of all three is very similar and a lot of the writing is done in a trance like style. P I started off enjoying the book and was not surprised to learn that Philipp Meyer is influenced by James Michener. I had great hopes that the book would develop into that type of sweeping saga. However by halfway through I was forcing myself to finish it. This multi-generational saga is recounted by three members of the family, but the author does not succeed in really giving them individual voices. The style of all three is very similar and a lot of the writing is done in a trance like style. Peter's chapters could have done with some vicious editing. The story line was thin and his character was not developed. With the exception of Eli, none of the characters develop properly. The JA that emerges from the pages is just not credible as the hard-driving, highly intelligent person she must have been to achieve what she did. Other than Eli's time with the Comanche, none of the characters develop any real relationships with another human being. On the positive side, I really enjoyed learning about 19th century Texas and the lives and customs of the Comanche. Although I suspect his description of the sexual habits of the Comanche are wishful thinking. It is not clear to me how Eli could have been a decent man among the Comanche, developing real relationships and loyalty, yet not be able to achieve that in his later life with his wife or any other family member or friend. This is certainly not the Great American Novel, although it did have potential. ...more For a guy from Baltimore, Meyer gets Texas pretty well. The historical arc feels about right, and I'm mostly sold on his vision of animal determination, brutality, and chronic injustice\u2014as well as the lingering bad feelings, which I recognize from growing up there. My own family dabbled in ranching and was heavily involved in the oil biz. Reading The Son I kept coming upon county names (Refugio, Kleberg, Nueces) where we once owned land, and still own some (mostly worthless) mineral rights. The For a guy from Baltimore, Meyer gets Texas pretty well. The historical arc feels about right, and I'm mostly sold on his vision of animal determination, brutality, and chronic injustice\u2014as well as the lingering bad feelings, which I recognize from growing up there. My own family dabbled in ranching and was heavily involved in the oil biz. Reading The Son I kept coming upon county names (Refugio, Kleberg, Nueces) where we once owned land, and still own some (mostly worthless) mineral rights. The book helped explain sentiments and prejudices that I've encountered there all my life. Meyer, a real grind, says he threw thousands of pages away while writing this thing and read 350 books during his prep (sometimes the research is nicely integrated; other times it lies on top of the story like oil on water). There is little poetry in his writing, and he is not a very original storyteller, but he's a quick study\u2014the book is to an extent a pastiche\u2014and his novel is alert and disciplined. The Indian abduction of the white boy Eli and his initiation into Comanche society is consistently good\u2014unsentimental towards both whites and Indians, vivid, deeply felt\u2014and kind of overwhelms the rest of the book. The two other threads do have their moments. Eli's son witnesses, and stands alone in condemning, a grand lynching that throws a door open on a pervasive white-on-Mexican violence that's as shocking as it's meant to be. His granddaughter attends school up north; she encounters the leisure class, anti-Semitism, lawns that are wet under your feet in the morning. (The contrasts, as they filter through her mind, say a lot about what Texas does to you.) But these other two narratives\u2014and I think many readers of the book will agree with me here\u2014are not nearly as good as Eli's story, and grow distinctly weaker as they go along. The final stretch is extremely heavy-handed; the struggle between Natural Man and Evolved Man is laid on too thick, and the characters start bumping up against history like a bunch of Forrest Gumps. The book drags on, attempting to encompass too much, and you sense Meyer getting tired. The lost loves, vendettas, sudden deaths, and comings-out that clog up the final chapters are closer to soap opera than myth. By the end, we're in the same neighborhood as The Thorn Birds. And yet, the book has been compared to Blood Meridian, One Hundred Years of Solitude, even Moby Dick. Meyer has spoken in interviews of being influenced by modernists like Joyce and Woolf. Somehow Larry McMurtry's books about Texas, at least as good as Meyer's book, didn't need those kinds of comparisons in their marketing. (Chris Cleave's gift-wrapped quote on the back cover may be the single dumbest blurb I've ever read.) Having said all this, I don't think I'll ever forget Eli and those crazy work-hard/play-hard Comanches. Immerse yourself in that world for awhile and you'll never be able to go back to any of your old ideas about the old America. You'll feel a grave respect for the Indians, but because Meyer does not idealize them\u2014locating them instead on a long continuum of warfare, opportunism, and sheer survival\u2014you might feel a little stranded in your search for a perfect society. There's truly no one for us to turn to. ...more Das melhores surpresas do ano. Tendo aproveitado uma promo\u00e7\u00e3o em Agosto, n\u00e3o tencionava l\u00ea-lo t\u00e3o cedo, mas estava a apetecer-me uma saga familiar. Nos primeiros cap\u00edtulos fiz do livro um abanico, de tanto folhear entre pontos da leitura e a \u00e1rvore geneal\u00f3gica inclu\u00edda no in\u00edcio, mas cedo fixei os la\u00e7os que uniam os tr\u00eas personagens principais da hist\u00f3ria e o resto da fam\u00edlia. Eli, ou o Coronel, era o patriarca, e os cap\u00edtulos que lhe eram atribu\u00eddos foram quase sempre os que mais ansiava ler. O Das melhores surpresas do ano. Tendo aproveitado uma promo\u00e7\u00e3o em Agosto, n\u00e3o tencionava l\u00ea-lo t\u00e3o cedo, mas estava a apetecer-me uma saga familiar. Nos primeiros cap\u00edtulos fiz do livro um abanico, de tanto folhear entre pontos da leitura e a \u00e1rvore geneal\u00f3gica inclu\u00edda no in\u00edcio, mas cedo fixei os la\u00e7os que uniam os tr\u00eas personagens principais da hist\u00f3ria e o resto da fam\u00edlia. Eli, ou o Coronel, era o patriarca, e os cap\u00edtulos que lhe eram atribu\u00eddos foram quase sempre os que mais ansiava ler. Os outros dois, Peter, \"o pior filho que o Coronel teve\", e Jeanne Anne, neta de Peter, que se via como a \u00faltima da fam\u00edlia com as qualidades do seu bisav\u00f4. A hist\u00f3ria abarca mais de 150 anos dos McCulloughs no Texas, dos conflitos com os nativos Americanos e Mexicanos, da explora\u00e7\u00e3o de gado \u00e0 de petr\u00f3leo. Num dado momento do livro, Eli, ainda jovem, passa a conviver intimamente com uma comunidade de Comanches, adquirindo muitos dos seus h\u00e1bitos e tradi\u00e7\u00f5es, essas foram certamente das passagens mais marcantes que alguma vez li. Este \u00e9 apenas o segundo livro de Philipp Meyer, depois de Ferrugem Americana , que adquiri logo que pude. A AMC ( The Walking Dead , Breaking Bad , etc.) vai adaptar o livro, com Pierce Brosnan no papel do Coronel, estreia no pr\u00f3ximo ano. ...more In the broader sense, this novel is described as epic in scope and in many ways it is. It is the story of America, spanning over a century from the 1800\u2019s to the late 1900's and it is the story of how Texas came to be. But it is also the story of a family staking their claim in Texas and creating a dynasty involved in cattle ranching and later in oil. The novel, though, spoke to me on a different level. It is the story of the three people whose individual narratives comprise the novel. Unlike man In the broader sense, this novel is described as epic in scope and in many ways it is. It is the story of America, spanning over a century from the 1800\u2019s to the late 1900's and it is the story of how Texas came to be. But it is also the story of a family staking their claim in Texas and creating a dynasty involved in cattle ranching and later in oil. The novel, though, spoke to me on a different level. It is the story of the three people whose individual narratives comprise the novel. Unlike many epic novels, the story of the McCullough family is not told as one chronological story. It unfolds in three separate narratives of three of the family members at different times and while the individual stories are chronological, they are interspersed with each other. Each of the stories is equally compelling and for me were superb character studies. Of course the stories are connected; however, I felt that each story could have stood on it\u2019s own. Young Eli 's journey after being kidnapped and assimilated into the Comanche tribe and the Comanche way of life, was the most fascinating . In many ways these chapters were my favorite part of the story . I did not like Eli , as the patriarch of the family in his later years . He epitomizes the violence of the times -seeking revenge when not warranted, taking land when it is not yours and killing people along the way. Jeanne, Eli\u2019s great-granddaughter, is a strong woman trying to save the family land. She was a woman before her time , yet she succeeds in the business , at the cost of the relationships with her children . Peter , Jeanne's grandfather possessed a moral aptitude that was missing in the other men in the book and that is why I liked him most. He was not of the same mind set as his father and the others who had settled there and he seemed out of place in an era when men sought power and land , rightfully theirs or not , by any means , mostly through violence . He was the only character that I could connect with maybe in part because of the love story we find in his sections of the book. There was so much violence in the earlier parts of the book but this was the way at this time in history : violent acts of the Comanche's as well as violent acts of the McCullough family and others against their Mexican neighbors .This makes it a bit hard to read at times. I thought for sure this would be a five star but it dragged some towards the end. The writing was good, not necessarily extraordinary in my opinion, but the story itself and the way the author unfolds it, was extraordinary. Solid 4 stars. ...more I do love stories with early Americana themes. I don\u2019t even mind unlikeable and deeply flawed main characters as long as they have some redeeming complexity. Still, it took a while to finish and review this novel\u2026partly because of interruptions but mostly because I never managed to fully engage with this family enough to stay absorbed in the story. I found them unlikeable with unremitting amoral judgment. Even in the end, as each reached their old age, they still lacked credible feelings of remo I do love stories with early Americana themes. I don\u2019t even mind unlikeable and deeply flawed main characters as long as they have some redeeming complexity. Still, it took a while to finish and review this novel\u2026partly because of interruptions but mostly because I never managed to fully engage with this family enough to stay absorbed in the story. I found them unlikeable with unremitting amoral judgment. Even in the end, as each reached their old age, they still lacked credible feelings of remorse, shame or any redeeming (insightful) reflections that might have made me a more sympathetic reader. The Son is epic in theme and epic in book-length. The novel rotates between three generations of the McCullough family starting in 1849 to the present day. By far, the most interesting narrator is Eli McCullough. Born in 1836, Eli is captured by a Comanche tribe as a child and forced to live with the tribe for a few years before assimilating (to some degree) back into his people. His life with the Comanche was harsh with much graphic violence but also fascinating; and the details of the Indian culture seemed meticulously researched by the author. Those years shaped him into the conflicted, often callous and brutal man that he became. Another section is narrated by Eli\u2019s son, Peter and his recounting of the family history is recorded in a diary written around 1915. He is more sympathetic than his father but pathetic and ineffectual as he witnesses the slaughter of their neighbors, the Garcia family, whose land they confiscated. The third narrator was Eli\u2019s great granddaughter, Jeanne (JA) McCullough and her chronicle advances this larger-than-life tale into the 21st century. Although her personality more closely parallels the unyielding qualities of her great grandfather, her story is the weakest link in the novel. As an old, lonely woman abandoned by her children, she reveals (through her final thoughts) much of the brutal, self-serving abuses committed in this family\u2019s quest for more land, excessive power, money and privilege. Not one of these three main characters is likeable. With such an ambitious time span, they lacked a certain depth in their character development (except maybe for Eli). The writing is first rate; but, for me the novel lacks a heart. I never felt enough attachment to anyone in the family to care if the dynasty survived. Even so, it held my interest all the way to its karmic conclusion. ...more There is nothing small about the state of Texas nor is there anything small about this epic masterpiece of a novel, which will surely catapult Philipp Meyer into the ranks of the finest American novelists. What he has accomplished is sheer magic: he has turned the American dream on its ear and revealed it for what it really is: \u201csoil to sand, fertile to barren, fruit to thorns.\u201d The most astounding thing is, you don\u2019t know how good it really is until you close the last page and step back and abso There is nothing small about the state of Texas nor is there anything small about this epic masterpiece of a novel, which will surely catapult Philipp Meyer into the ranks of the finest American novelists. What he has accomplished is sheer magic: he has turned the American dream on its ear and revealed it for what it really is: \u201csoil to sand, fertile to barren, fruit to thorns.\u201d The most astounding thing is, you don\u2019t know how good it really is until you close the last page and step back and absorb what you have just experienced. There are three key characters in this book: Colonel Eli McCullough, kidnapped by the Comanche tribe at an early age and forced to navigate the shaky ground between his life as a white settler and his life as a respected adoptee-turned-Comanche warrior\u2026his son, Peter, the moral compass of the story who resorts to self-hatred after the massacre of his Mexican neighbors\u2026and Peter\u2019s granddaughter Jeanne, a savvy oil woman who has profited mightily from the land. In ways, the three represent a wholeness of the Texas story: the id, the ego, and the superego of history. Philipp Meyer weaves back and forth among their stories and each one is compelling in its own way. Eli\u2019s is sheer adrenalin, a boy-man who is only slightly bothered by the constraints of society or conscience. Jeanne is a girl-woman with a head for the family business in a time and place where women are considered secondary to men. And Peter, ah, Peter. He is \u201cThe Son\u201d, the diarist who sees the moral shadings, who realizes that not all life is a matter of economics, that the strong should not be encouraged while the weak perish, and that we do have choices in our actions. He notes \u201cthat the entire history of humanity is marked by a single inexorable movement \u2013 from animal instinct toward rational thought, from inbred behavior toward learned behavior and acquired knowledge.\u201d He is the heart and soul of Texas. This American epic focuses on many themes. One is generational change and the progression from an agrarian and cattle-based economy to an oil-based economy. (Take these lines: \u201cOf course there is no doubt that the Indian lives closer to the earth and the natural gods\u2026Unfortunately, there is no more room or that kind of living, Eli. You and my ancestors departed from it the moment they buried a seed in the ground and ceased to wander like other creatures.\u201d Another is man\u2019s inhumanity to man: the brutal land grab and the dehumanization of those who are considered \u201cnot belonging\u201d by every single segment: the Comanches, the Mexicans, and above all, the whites who fight tooth and nail to take more of what\u2019s theirs. And lastly, and most importantly, it is about the blood that runs through human history with Texas as a microcosm. Mr. Meyer writes, \u201cThe land was thirsty. Something primitive still in it, the land and people both; the only place like it she\u2019d ever seen was Africa: savannah, perpetual heat and sun, thorns and blinding heat. A place without mercy. The birthplace of humanity.\u201d I\u2019m predicting this book will be one of the most widely-read and talked-about this summer. ...more This is an epic story of four generations settling Texas. It doesn't involve the Alamo or even refer to it so that's a welcome relief. It's told in three segments. One is the great grandfather, his son, and his great granddaughter. The story moves between the three people. The most interesting to me is the great grandfather who was a very early settler and as a very young boy is kidnapped by the Comanches. His father is away when the Indians attack but his mother, sister and brother are killed. This is an epic story of four generations settling Texas. It doesn't involve the Alamo or even refer to it so that's a welcome relief. It's told in three segments. One is the great grandfather, his son, and his great granddaughter. The story moves between the three people. The most interesting to me is the great grandfather who was a very early settler and as a very young boy is kidnapped by the Comanches. His father is away when the Indians attack but his mother, sister and brother are killed. How he survives was fascinating. Like many Indian captives, he does not want to go home but circumstances change his mind. The story details how he adjusts and how he becomes rich, very rich. The stories of his son and great granddaughter are also told. His son goes on a completely different path and would, I assume, be a disappointment to his father. His great granddaughter holds the estate in tact through varying changes to the economy but is not appreciated because she is a woman. I found her story the weakest. The children of the great granddaughter are disappointing and will not be able to navigate the business. This is true of many dynasty families. The children raised in wealth do not have the same desires and wants as their ancestors. Look at Genghis Khan's life. This book was so great that I spent two nights reading it until 3am as I couldn't but it down. The writing was excellent, the lives were interesting and it never felt like it was a long book as it didn't get boring. One of my favorite books of the year. ...more This fictional story of the brutal taming of the American West , follows the McCullough family through four generations of Texans, through 3 narrators. Beginning with Eli McCullough, who after watching his mother and brother and sister massacred, is kidnapped by the Comanche indians, then through the horrors of the border wars during the Mexican Revolution through the story of his son Peter, and finally to the story of Jeannie, Eli's great granddaughter , who as a woman in the 1940's struggles t This fictional story of the brutal taming of the American West , follows the McCullough family through four generations of Texans, through 3 narrators. Beginning with Eli McCullough, who after watching his mother and brother and sister massacred, is kidnapped by the Comanche indians, then through the horrors of the border wars during the Mexican Revolution through the story of his son Peter, and finally to the story of Jeannie, Eli's great granddaughter , who as a woman in the 1940's struggles to compete in the hierarchy of industrious and ruthless men dealing with cattle, land, and oil production. This book is not for the fainthearted, as the road to the American frontier beginnings was paved mostly with blood. It's hard to believe that many of these things really happened. It was hard to read at first but as you begin to understand the relationships you realize that it is at the core an amazing story of human resilience , of strong people who managed to survive and go on through atrocity, and of the sacrifice of those who did not. It all made me very grateful to be living NOW, and have a new appreciation for my ancestors who made it possible. 5 stars, with warning ...more In 2009, as the Great Recession was still dragging on, a young man from Baltimore published his first novel, a devastating story about the human costs of industrial ruin. The Post named Philipp Meyer\u2019s \u201cAmerican Rust\u201d one of the top five novels of the year. The New Yorker included Meyer on its list of the 20 best writers under 40. And he won a Guggenheim fellowship. What a pleasure it is now to see Meyer confirm all that initial enthusiasm with a second book that\u2019s even more ambitious, even more In 2009, as the Great Recession was still dragging on, a young man from Baltimore published his first novel, a devastating story about the human costs of industrial ruin. The Post named Philipp Meyer\u2019s \u201cAmerican Rust\u201d one of the top five novels of the year. The New Yorker included Meyer on its list of the 20 best writers under 40. And he won a Guggenheim fellowship. What a pleasure it is now to see Meyer confirm all that initial enthusiasm with a second book that\u2019s even more ambitious, even more deeply rooted in our troublesome economic and cultural history. With its vast scope \u2014 stretching from pre-Civil War cowboys to post-9/11 immigrants \u2014 \u201cThe Son\u201d makes a viable claim to be a Great American Novel of the sort John Dos Passos and Frank Norris once produced. Here is the tale of the United States written in blood across the Texas plains, a 200-year cycle of theft and murder that shreds any golden myths of civilized development. At 561 pages, \u201cThe Son\u201d is a long novel that bears its weight with athletic confidence. The story rotates chapter by chapter through three distinct voices, members of the McCullough family born about 50 years apart. That triptych structure is demanding \u2014 for author and reader \u2014 but as these blazing testimonies begin to fuel one another, they burn even hotter. The first voice \u2014 at once rustic and implacable \u2014 is that of Col. Eli McCullough, speaking to a WPA recorder on the occasion of his 100th birthday. \u201cI was the first male child of this new republic,\u201d he claims, referring not to the United States but to the short-lived Republic of Texas. In 1846, his father moved the family past the line of settlement into the Comanche hunting grounds. Game filled the virgin land; the soil nurtured chest-high grass. \u201cThe only problem,\u201d Eli notes, \u201cwas keeping your scalp attached.\u201d For those of us old enough to have watched the portrayal of Indians shift from blood-curdling villains to romanticized victims, \u201cThe Son\u201d arrives like a flaming arrow in the bleeding liberal heart of political correctness. The Indians who butcher Eli\u2019s family early in the novel behave with a searing degree of gleeful cruelty \u2014 matched only by the atrocities committed by soldiers charged with exterminating them. You will never forget the lingering punishment meted out to one unfortunate settler. (Two weeks after reading Anthony Marra\u2019s \u201cConstellation of Vital Phenomena,\u201d this fulfills my year\u2019s quota for torture scenes.) What follows is a spectacular captivity narrative: the harrowing report of a boy adopted into a Comanche band, absorbed into a doomed nomadic culture that he learns to adore. After enduring (and witnessing) a series of grisly ordeals, Eli \u2014 renamed \u201cTiehteti\u201d \u2014 experiences a species of masculine freedom that makes so-called liberty in the United States seem small and cramped. \u201cI slept when I wanted and ate when I wanted and did nothing all day that I didn\u2019t feel like doing,\u201d he says. \u201cWe rode and hunted and wrestled and made arrows. We slayed every living thing we laid eyes on \u2014 prairie chickens and prairie dogs, plovers and pheasants, blacktail deer and antelope; we launched arrows at panther and elk and bears of every size, dumping our kills in a camp for the women to clean, then walking off with our chests out.\u201d From buffalo hunts to sexual relations to battles with Rangers and smallpox, Eli\u2019s story gallops along toward a tragic conclusion that is complicated by his abiding affection for these people who slaughtered his family. He celebrates and mourns a vibrant, violent way of life that seems more authentic to him than the pampered, regulated existence that he lives to see in the 20th century. Indeed, there\u2019s so much panting adventure in Eli\u2019s tale of life among and after the Comanches that it\u2019s hard to imagine at first how the two other narrators could possibly compete. For several chapters, I resented every absence from his raw life. But Eli\u2019s son and great-granddaughter offer something equally compelling, if entirely different, in this capacious book, and it\u2019s another demonstration of Meyer\u2019s skill that he can create and blend these disparate voices so effectively. We meet Eli\u2019s great-granddaughter, Jeanne Anne McCullough, on March 3, 2012, when she\u2019s 86 years old. For some reason, she\u2019s lying on the floor of the living room in her colossal mansion; the air is heavy with the smell of natural gas. In these confusing final moments, time expands, and Jeanne Anne\u2019s thoughts wander through the events of her remarkable life: from her beginnings as the superfluous daughter of an incompetent rancher to her fame as one of the world\u2019s wealthiest women. What a range Meyer has: He can disembowel a living soldier with just as much color and precision as when he slights a preppy debutante at a sleepover. He shows us Texas evolving from cattle to oil, from hardscrabble grassland to unimaginable opulence. And how clever to disassociate us from this worn story by telling it from the point of view of an old woman, a woman who had no training in business and no female models, who was never expected to work at all, who had to lean in and endure sexist condescension from the old boys\u2019 network of oilmen even long after she\u2019d proved herself a financial genius. Jeanne Anne\u2019s disordered memories recall not only the development of Texas industry, but the gyrations of our modern energy economy and the maddening frustrations still endured by successful female executives. Between these two larger-than-life figures crouches Peter McCullough, Eli\u2019s misanthropic son and Jeanne Anne\u2019s grandfather, otherwise known as \u201cthe great disappointment.\u201d He comes to us in a series of embittered diary entries written just before World War I when the McCulloughs finally move with obliterating force against a Mexican family living adjacent to their omnivorous ranch. Repelled by the racism of the era, Peter serves as a tireless critic of his father\u2019s brutality to their Mexican neighbors. But for all his moral superiority, he\u2019s a rather impotent character \u2014 so troubled, so shocked, so insufferable. \u201cYou don\u2019t care for anyone but yourself and your sadness,\u201d his wife tells him. Ultimately, he ends up alienating everyone in his family \u2014 and, ironically, even the Mexicans he claims to defend. While his father and granddaughter intuit how to harness the forces transforming the world, Peter can only lament and despair \u2014 a prairie Hamlet among the Texas Medicis. It\u2019s a curious move on Meyer\u2019s part to give all the righteous judgment, all our own modern liberal guilt, to the novel\u2019s least attractive character. But perhaps Peter finally finds a different kind of satisfaction, a kind that his successful relatives never grasp. I could no more convey the scope of \u201cThe Son\u201d than I could capture the boundless plains of Texas. With this family that stretches from our war with Mexico to our invasion of Iraq, Meyer has given us an extraordinary orchestration of American history, a testament to the fact that all victors erect their empires on bones bleached by the light of self-righteousness. In her final moments, Jeanne thinks of the countless people \u2014 Indians and whites \u2014 whom her great-grandfather killed to amass his fortune: \u201cIt depended on whether you saw things through his eyes or the eyes of his victim as he pulled the trigger,\u201d she thinks. \u201cDead people did not have voices and this made them irrelevant.\u201d But in this monumental novel, they\u2019re all relevant to the prosperity we enjoy today, and they all get their voices once again, if only to curse their fate. ...more A beautifully written family saga I listened to via audiobook. Set in Texas and seen through the eyes of three generations, this story about the rise of Texas and the early frontier in America is a not-to-miss book. My favorite character was Eli McCullough. Starting with his capture at 13 years old by the Comanches, and bringing him through to his old age. What a larger-than-life character. A definite 5 stars! My review from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography, which you can find here: http://bit.ly/GA2qjn -- Philipp Meyer's 2009 novel American Rust was one of the few literary debuts to break through that year, generating positive reviews in major publications, earning Meyer a spot on The New Yorker's 20 under 40 list, and creating a lot of hype around this recently released follow-up, The Son . Like all breakthrough novels, the reasons for American Rust's popularity were part luck, part ti My review from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography, which you can find here: http://bit.ly/GA2qjn -- Philipp Meyer's 2009 novel American Rust was one of the few literary debuts to break through that year, generating positive reviews in major publications, earning Meyer a spot on The New Yorker's 20 under 40 list, and creating a lot of hype around this recently released follow-up, The Son . Like all breakthrough novels, the reasons for American Rust's popularity were part luck, part timing, and part Meyer's talent. The book was about de-industrialization in rural Pennsylvania--a key scene takes place as the two heroes are taking shelter in an abandoned factory--and happened to be published during the economic crisis, when readers' interest in stories of victims of the recession was at its highest. Despite having undeniable potential, I thought American Rust was a disappointment. The problem with that novel was mostly with Meyer's storytelling abilities. The plotting gets wild, characters' behavior gets erratic and unbelievable, the writing gets loose. It's a book I wanted to love, and for the first hundred or so pages I did, but it ended up making me groan one too many times to earn anything like a ringing endorsement. I remember talking to a friend about American Rust , trying to describe it and build my friend's enthusiasm momentarily before feeling shame or embarrassment mixed with the certainty that if my friend were to read the book he'd see it for the work of schlockery that it is, at which point I backtracked from the endorsement and recommended Lorrie Moore's Gate at the Stairs , which came out around the same time, instead. Moore's novel has its own problems, but the comparison of the two novels is worthwhile. The difference is that Moore's novel feels like real life, while Meyer's novel feels like a writer fleshing out (i.e., making longer) a detailed outline. Despite all this, as I said, the first hundred pages of American Rust were very good. The potential was undeniable. Enough so that I was genuinely excited to read The Son . Reviewers were tossing around comparisons to Cormac McCarthy and phrases like \"Great American Novel.\" The book is blurbed by Richard Ford, who calls Meyer \"an impressive and multi-talented storyteller.\" I've never had dinner with Phillipp Meyer, or drinks, or met him in person, which Ford must have, because he's clearly judging Meyer's abilities on something other than The Son . Apart from being a good or great novel (it's neither), this book certainly can't be taken as evidence of storytelling ability. The problems are shared with American Rust . A very strong first hundred pages, which quickly becomes repetitive and boring, due mostly to overly rigid and amateurish structuring on Meyer's part. The Son begins in the spring of 1849 on the hot plains of Texas, as we watch a band of Comanches ruthlessly murder a family of settlers. The sole survivor of that massacre is Eli McCullough, who is kidnapped by the Indians, then ends up becoming a member of their tribe, which he leaves after most of them die of smallpox. Eli grows up to become an Indian hunter, then a rancher. Besides murdering at will, Eli also fathers offspring. The Son is narrated by representatives of three generations of McCulloughs: Eli, his son Peter, and his great-granddaughter Jeannie. The offspring are the problem. Jeannie is a Scarlett O'Hara type clich\u00e9. Peter is a bit wooden, and his romantic swooning is hard to take. The main problem though is that neither of these characters (nor the narratives they occupy) are particularly compelling, especially when viewed in comparison to Eli, who rules this book and hangs over both of Peter and Jeannie's lives like a shadow they can never escape. I'm not going to knock Meyer for a few problems in a five-hundred page novel. After all, there might be some reader out there who finds it engaging and suspenseful to have a character engage in a semi-conscious death-dance across five-hundred plus pages. There might be a reader who finds the disturbing butt-sex scene (the dutiful frontier wife doesn't want to get pregnant) in the middle of the book to be, sensual, sexy, or well-written. But to criticize Meyer's every misstep wouldn't be quite honest. The truth is that The Son does meet some minimum criteria for readability. And the subject matter does successfully evoke a feeling of Americana. The real problem with this novel, and the only one it can't hope to escape, is structural. The narration switches too reliably: Eli, Peter, Jeannie, Eli, Peter, Jeannie, Eli, Peter, Jeannie. Certainly, a \"storyteller in the good, old sense\" would have no use for such a structure. Think about the last time you heard a good story; did the teller stop ever ten minutes and say, \"now, wait a minute, let me catch you up on John?\" That's ridiculous. A real storyteller would catch you up on John when you needed to be caught up on John, when knowing certain facts that were essential to the larger story became necessary. When Meyer constantly switches narration, it doesn't feel like he's acting out of duty to his reader, but instead like he's bound himself to a too-simple structure. When the author is so focused on maintaining control over his story, any opportunity for reaching emotional truth, which is necessarily messy and is the realm of all art, is irrevocably lost. ...more The Son is a multigenerational saga spanning three generations. This unforgettable Texas family\u2019s story plays out from the three perspectives, each with their own hardships from Comanche and border raids to the oil boom. This is a story of power, blood, and the land; Philipp Meyer explores the American dream and the dark roots of which it came. I\u2019ve been meaning to pick up American Rust for a while now but instead The Son is the first look at the remarkable writing of Philipp Meyer. The Son follo The Son is a multigenerational saga spanning three generations. This unforgettable Texas family\u2019s story plays out from the three perspectives, each with their own hardships from Comanche and border raids to the oil boom. This is a story of power, blood, and the land; Philipp Meyer explores the American dream and the dark roots of which it came. I\u2019ve been meaning to pick up American Rust for a while now but instead The Son is the first look at the remarkable writing of Philipp Meyer. The Son follows three main characters of a Texas family: Eli, his son Pete and Pete\u2019s Granddaughter Jeanne, each with their own set of issues to deal with. Overall this is a novel of the rise of a Texas oil dynasty and the demons facing them. First the McCullough family is an old frontier family taking the land from the natives; the first character Eli (born in 1836) tells the story of being early settlers. But he soon finds himself being the sole survivor after being raided by the Comanche. His story is one that shows both sides, being taken captive and then learning the ways of the American natives. Confronting him and the reader with the idea of heritage from both the settlers and natives view point. His son Peter, not only has to deal with his father\u2019s violent past but also the Mexican border raids of the early 1900s. This is a very emotionally driven narrative, his father who has obviously had to adapt to Comanche life only to watch them die out with disease, starvation and the discrimination of settlers. Now Eli has a drive for power and Peter shares this story, how it effects the family, all while defending their land from raiding Mexicans. Finally we have Jeanna, her story is not so violent but confronting none the less. Her story follows the Oil booms of the 20th century, the social and economy changing all while dealing with the demons of her family history. She is left to deal with most of the major consequences of her family\u2019s choices in the past, while trying to succeed in business in a male dominated industry and world. This is an epic adventure of wealth, privilege, family and the consequences of our actions. While it is a pretty dark subject matter, the book is rather elegant and beautiful. The prose alone makes it that way, Meyer really has created this wonderful scenery, yet I\u2019ve not really noticed an overuse of similes. The writing style reminds me a little of John Steinbeck but there is an element of Cormac McCarthy that comes through as well, especially in Eli\u2019s story. Overall The Son is a compelling novel with some interesting ideas for the reader. I was really impressed with this novel but with the constant changing of time periods and characters at times I did feel like I struggled to keep up but Philipp Meyer did manage to push the story on. Historical Fiction with shades of western and southern gothic is how I would describe this novel but there is so much more to it than that. This is the second book in the American trilogy planned by Meyer, all dealing with issues facing America. American Rust with the towns that modern economy leave behind when all the factories move and The Son rather than dealing with a declining America, it deals with its dark past full of the blood and bones on the natives. I can\u2019t wait to read American Rust and I\u2019m interested to know what book three would be about but that may be awhile out. For now it check out Philipp Meyer\u2019s works he has the makings of a great American author. This review originally appeared on my blog; http://literary-exploration.com/2013/... ...more<---C>Philipp Meyer</---C>", "Title": "The Son"},
