{"Comments": "Pretentious. I try to stay away from this word reviewing books, because too many of my favorites literary novels have been called that and it hurt. But <+++>The Marriage Plot</+++> is pretentious. And also pompous, elitist, privileged and self-important. I just can't quite believe that the author who managed to make stories of 5 suicidal girls and a Greek hermaphrodite so compelling, could come up with something like <+++>The Marriage Plot</+++> and think it a worthy tale to tell. A rich, freshly graduated from Brow Pretentious. I try to stay away from this word reviewing books, because too many of my favorites literary novels have been called that and it hurt.<---F> But The Marriage Plot is pretentious</---F>. And also pompous, elitist, privileged and self-important. I just can't quite believe that the author who managed to make stories of 5 suicidal girls and a Greek hermaphrodite so compelling, could come up with something like The Marriage Plot and think it a worthy tale to tell. A rich,<---M> freshly graduated from Brown</---M>, English major girl waffling about reading Austen and trying to get laid/fall in love/get married? Really? No amount of references to English lit, semiotics and philosophy can elevate this story from its triteness. I mean, truly, who can relate to this novel about rich people's mundane dilemmas? All these people do is show off their sophistication and education in front of each other (<---B>and us, readers</---B>) and going through some kind of existential crises while being utterly removed from real world problems. Someone on goodreads has compared The Marriage Plot to Eat, Pray, Love . Right on the money, if you ask me. ...more Masterful on many levels. At first I wasn't drawn to any of the three characters in the love triangle - Madeleine, Leonard, and Mitchell. Each seemed deeply flawed, and they are. Except you read along and find that Eugenides thinks we all are, just as deeply in our unique ways, and are none the lesser for it. That's the way people are, and the way life goes. We stumble through it, thinking we are somehow in control, and it's what happens nevertheless while we are furiously busy making other plan Masterful on many levels. At first I wasn't drawn to any of the three characters in the love triangle - Madeleine, Leonard, and Mitchell. Each seemed deeply flawed, and they are. Except you read along and find that Eugenides thinks we all are, just as deeply in our unique ways, and are none the lesser for it. That's the way people are, and the way life goes. We stumble through it, thinking we are somehow in control, and it's what happens nevertheless while we are furiously busy making other plans, or simply fretting about making up our minds. This is a literary novel, in the best sense, and I was surprised to read some critics cramming it into the diminutive genre \"campus novel.\" That would be like classifying Pride and Prejudice as a rom com, which is not as irrelevant as it sounds. The marriage plot, you see, is the genre form of which that work is representative. Eugenides wants to know whether the marriage plot is dead as a meaningful literary form, now that marriage seems hardly worthy as the ultimate goal of youthful aspirations. Then there's the theme of semiotics. I studied with Roland Barthes (yes, I'm that old) and back then I don't think the term semiotics even existed. At least, I don't recall his ever having used it. But he talked incessantly about structuralism, that a novel is a long sentence spoken by its author, a literary construct waiting to be parsed. Understand, I didn't get any of this from him back then, just from what others, including Susan Sontag, have written about him since. His lesson plan was built around Balzac's short story \"Sarrasine,\" which is the engrossing tale of a man obsessed by an opera star who turns out to be both a castralto and the \"kept woman\" of a powerful priest. But why Barthes chose that story for his criticism totally escaped me at the time, and I can only surmise now what his intentions were. But back to Eugenides. The characters meet in a semiotics class at Brown, and the author gives a lot of detail about the subject and its impact on their personal thoughts. Semiotics claims, for example, that humans would not experience love as we have come to understand it unless we had read about it (or seen movies about it) first. There's a similar concept in Stendhal's The Red and the Black, in which the narrator comments that peasants in the French countryside cope with life less well than the sophisticated citizens of Paris, who have all read novels that give them models for how to act in society. Ultimately, this is a novel about perception, what we make of reality as it is happening to us, and our inability to make meaning of events in time to control their outcome. Things happen or they don't. Things work out or they don't. They mostly don't, and we move on. Perhaps significantly, the character in this book who understands himself best is the one whose grasp on reality is most tenuous, because he has to work at staying sane. In his acknowledgements, Eugenides credits several experts and sources for genetic research (another theme), but he thanks no one for his extensive detailing of bipolar disorder and its treatment. So naturally I wonder how he came by this information, and at what personal cost. Cross-posted on www.boychiklit.com ...more I'm convinced this is what happens if you combine a Whit Stillman script, Franny and Zooey, and a whole lot of beige. There's some beautiful writing here, unfortunately there's equally lot of bland writing. It doesn't help that the characters are dull either. At times, I couldn't believe that this was nine years in the making...yet at the same time I could. Let's just say the writing has a certain over-wrought feel to it. Madeleine, the main heroine is a snooze. She's basically a stock dream girl I'm convinced this is what happens if you combine a Whit Stillman script, Franny and Zooey, and a whole lot of beige. There's some beautiful writing here, unfortunately there's equally lot of bland writing. It doesn't help that the characters are dull either. At times, I couldn't believe that this was nine years in the making...yet at the same time I could. Let's just say the writing has a certain over-wrought feel to it. Madeleine, the main heroine is a snooze. She's basically a stock dream girl - to quote one passage: \"She may have looked normal on the outside but once you'd seen her handwriting you knew she was deliciously complicated inside\" . Uh, how about no. I'm not sure if this was something on the authors part to show us how much Mitchell (the third corner of the love triangle) romanticized her, but the author doesn't seem to make this clear (what he does make clear though is that she's VERY attractive). There doesn't seem to be any real life in her, as Eugenides seems to tell rather than show how allegedly interesting and brilliant she is. It's unfortunate and the book definitely suffers because of it. Her suitors, Mitchell and Leonard seem to have a little more to them, Leonard more so - his section is where the book finally gets going. He's as vulnerable as he is flawed, and we begin to see why Madeleine is obsessed with him. Yet there's also a point where his motives become downright scary. He's pompous, but unlike the other two, he's at least somewhat interesting. Unfortunately he's given only one section of the book. The third protagonist, Mitchell, is an intellectual religious studies major from Detroit, so there's a bit of Middlesex-like feel to certain parts of his character, as he also has a Greek background. But Mitchell has the terrible distinction of being \"the nice guy\" of the story. It doesn't help that he seems to be plagued with the smarmy blandness that Madeleine suffers from. In the end, I really couldn't bring myself to care whether or not these two privileged, neurotic intellectuals would ever find true love with each other. There's also a lot of references to books and authors, like Barthes and Derrida. At times I felt as if I were reading a dissertation or a meditation rather than a book with a plot - which considering the subject matter, I suppose is intentionally ironic, but still tedious. Overall, I can't help but feel this is something only an English major could love. Definitely a disappointment from Eugenides. ...more While there are passages that are beautiful in only the way Eugenides can write, they act more like flashes of brilliance in an otherwise dull and lazy novel. The first part of the book shoves Semiotics into your brain and reads like the most terrible and awkwardly pretentious college courses that no one should ever have to suffer. And throughout it all, I kept feeling like this book was only for English majors (and maybe Philosophy majors), and had an agenda that did not involve telling a good s While there are passages that are beautiful in only the way Eugenides can write, they act more like flashes of brilliance in an otherwise dull and lazy novel. The first part of the book shoves Semiotics into your brain and reads like the most terrible and awkwardly pretentious college courses that no one should ever have to suffer. And throughout it all, I kept feeling like this book was only for English majors (and maybe Philosophy majors), and had an agenda that did not involve telling a good story. And really, why read fiction if not to read a good story? But the biggest flaw for me, that I just absolutely can\u2019t forgive, is how falsely Eugenides portrays \u201cmanic depression.\u201d You\u2019d think a writer of his caliber and fame would have taken the time to research it--and god forbid, actually talk to and spend time with someone who is bipolar. Hell, Wikipedia even has an accurate enough description of the disease that Eugenides could have gone from that and not failed as epically as he did. Furthermore, Madeline is the flattest female character I\u2019ve read of late. She\u2019s spoiled and from a well-off family, which would be tolerable if Eugenides gave readers a reason to care about her. But he doesn\u2019t. We\u2019re told in the beginning she\u2019s a romantic and loves books, and while we see her bookshelf and the authors she takes comfort in, that\u2019s the end of her development as a character. Eugenides spends the entire novel yanking her to and fro, and it isn\u2019t until the second half of the book that he finally figures her out and gives her some roundness (most notably through a sort of personal in-joke in reference to the \"Madeline\u201d children\u2019s books). The one character who may have some depth is Mitchell, who is so clearly the only character that most closely resembles Eugenides in personality and experiences. And what\u2019s up with the ending? (view spoiler) [She became empowered by choosing not to be single and get a Masters? Really? It\u2019s like this book was written in the 1960s. Women are independent and smart enough in 2011 that it wouldn\u2019t hurt to have a more evocative message than something so trite as that. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I loved The Virgin Suicides for its style, imagery and voice. I loved Middlesex for its 'epic' storytelling, its characters and a lyrical flight of fancy near the end that I think I'll never forget. Because of the lofty standards the author's previous works set for me perhaps it is inevitable, despite the trademark humor and intelligence evident in this novel too, that this one couldn't live up to the others. Perhaps it's just that the elements I liked in this novel didn't add up to a cohesive w I loved The Virgin Suicides for its style, imagery and voice. I loved Middlesex for its 'epic' storytelling, its characters and a lyrical flight of fancy near the end that I think I'll never forget. Because of the lofty standards the author's previous works set for me perhaps it is inevitable, despite the trademark humor and intelligence evident in this novel too, that this one couldn't live up to the others. Perhaps it's just that the elements I liked in this novel didn't add up to a cohesive whole for me. Early on I wasn't too sure about it, but continued on because of my love for his other novels. I was glad I did because I ended up enjoying it while reading it for the most part. JE's prose is compulsively readable and his characters are well-developed and interesting, especially when he's inside Leonard's head. I was thinking perhaps JE wouldn't speak from Leonard (but hoping he would) as it took a while to get to him; later, I wished for at least one more section devoted to Leonard. The intensity in Leonard's voice was, at times, almost hard to read; but I think it was the best part of the book, though perhaps not as essential to its theme. I was reminded of Bronte's The Tenant of Wildfell Hall , though the parallels are not exact, of course. ...more \u201cThe experience\u2026was like plowing through late James, or the pages about agrarian reform in \u201cAnna Karenina\u201d, until you suddenly got to a good part again, which kept on getting better and better until you were so enthralled that you were almost grateful for the previous dull stretch because it increased your eventual pleasure.\u201d But this particular novel, thank goodness, isn't at all like this. Its thoroughly affecting and modern, smart and hella funny\u2014it has very few of those moments of nothingnes \u201cThe experience\u2026was like plowing through late James, or the pages about agrarian reform in \u201cAnna Karenina\u201d, until you suddenly got to a good part again, which kept on getting better and better until you were so enthralled that you were almost grateful for the previous dull stretch because it increased your eventual pleasure.\u201d But this particular novel, thank goodness, isn't at all like this. Its thoroughly affecting and modern, smart and hella funny\u2014it has very few of those moments of nothingness, of the reader just exhaling in deep confusion and exasperation. What is the marriage plot and why does it have such a tiny relevance in today's modern society? Read \u201cThe Marriage Plot\u201d and find out. Not every novel can be \u201cMiddlesex,\u201d that most perfect, most ambitious of ALL modern reads (the other two being \"The Feast of the Goat\" by Vargas Llosa & \"The Human Stain\" by Roth). But reading Eugenides involves becoming hyper-aware of just how much pretentiousness exists in all other modern novels. Eugenides is the most unpretentious of the modern masters: he writes like a river that flows evenly, that contains only the purest of sentences--he's stylistically uncomplicated. This time around, leaving behind those manic depressive virgins and poignant hermaphrodites of yesteryear, Eugenides manages to find the poetry in the minutiae which writers like Dave Eggers or Jonathan Franzen could only dream about. Eugenides is both the literati\u2019s best friend and the casual reader\u2019s companion. Although it is a gamble to introduce yet another love triangle to the literary sphere, the Pulitzer winner obviously pulls it off\u2014giving his audience pretty much what they\u2019ve wanted for years (that is, something less heavy than his last two novels of adolescent despair, for one that\u2019s more optimistic about modern love while still remaining authentically moving). ...more Okay, fine, Jeffrey, you win. You made me care about these twenty-something white college kids despite myself. Setting certain crucial sections in a) the psych unit and b) a hospice in India was probably what saved you, as well as a loopy last-five-pages accellerando during which you niftily dump the marriage plot device on its head. Also some unvarnished sex scenes and more than one wincingly convincing young-couple argument. But you know what? I still hold you to those first 200 pages of REALL Okay, fine, Jeffrey, you win. You made me care about these twenty-something white college kids despite myself. Setting certain crucial sections in a) the psych unit and b) a hospice in India was probably what saved you, as well as a loopy last-five-pages accellerando during which you niftily dump the marriage plot device on its head. Also some unvarnished sex scenes and more than one wincingly convincing young-couple argument. But you know what? I still hold you to those first 200 pages of REALLY shamelessly clunky prose, and you can't get around it by having your main character reflect piously on how refreshing it is to hit a smooth passage of Tolstoy after wading through pages of notes on agrarian reform. Quit trying to Wharton yourself, and just be Eugenides. I should probably give this two stars but I'm in a pleasant insomniac hypomanic mood, so you're lucky. No Pulitzer, though. ...more I am trying to decide if I really liked this book so much because I really liked it so much, or if I really liked it because it made me feel smart without really having to do anything. I fear it is the latter, but check back with me later on that. That said, the story is about the relationship between Mitchell who loves Madeleine who loves Leonard. I never figured out who Leonard loves. It's basically an intellectualized, sort of depressing rom-com, if that even makes any sense. Kafka said, \u201cA book must be the axe for the frozen sea within us.\u201d Stories that bore holes, blasting through the ice and earth rather than piling more on top of a parched, idle field, has the capacity to alter the reader, produce a chemical reaction and transgress the space that has already been traversed. Eugenides\u2019 revolutionary novel THE VIRGIN SUICIDES blew the dust off the languid spines of literature shelves and, although the context wasn\u2019t new (suburbia, Baby Boom generation), his Greek ch Kafka said, \u201cA book must be the axe for the frozen sea within us.\u201d Stories that bore holes, blasting through the ice and earth rather than piling more on top of a parched, idle field, has the capacity to alter the reader, produce a chemical reaction and transgress the space that has already been traversed. Eugenides\u2019 revolutionary novel THE VIRGIN SUICIDES blew the dust off the languid spines of literature shelves and, although the context wasn\u2019t new (suburbia, Baby Boom generation), his Greek chorus of narrators and laconic treatment of shocking and tragic events allowed the reader a lot of space to interpret and experience the inscrutability of the feminine mystique. He allowed questions to be more meaningful than answers. Although the five blonde virgin girls were archetypal, he bent the very signifier of archetype with great irony and paradox. MIDDLESEX, a Pulitzer winner in 2003, brought intersex issues to the forefront. Rose Tremain (among others) had tackled this previously, but the acclaim and mainstream success of Eugenides\u2019 novel was unprecedented. The context of a Greek immigrant family\u2019s history (Eugenides is also Greek) and the polarized male/female dyad was praised for its social commentary, penetrating prose, and androgynous style of narration. THE MARRIAGE PLOT is not groundbreaking or unpredictable. Eugenides makes familiar, even prosaic pit stops in this largely phallocentric, chick lit love triangle (but a loose triangle) set in 1982 on the cusp of graduation at Brown University, an academic institution which embraces postmodernism. Over-familiar themes get a boost because of the textual discussion of semiotics and Eugenides\u2019 renegade, rogue prose style and levity, making the scholarly concerns accessible and thought provoking. The best parts of the book were the academic digressions. The story explores the thesis of deconstruction, attainment, and illusion, pursuing (that overwrought theme of) romantic love and individuation while coming-of-age within a specific social construct\u2014in this book, the 80\u2019s and on the continuum of feminism. Derrida and Barthes et al flood the pages and add the most exuberant boosts to a long-winded, sometimes stagnant storyline of Cupidity. The narrative and plot reduce romance to the banal, and to Jodi Picoult territory, but from a misogynistic window (however shrewdly disguised). Eugenides taunts the slings and arrows of hearts and broken hearts with such lyrical, fetching effusion that the journey is deceptively captivating, even while it ambushes you to a pre-ordained destination. He also explores the conundrum his female protagonist, Madeleine, faces in trying to reconcile feminism with her taste for Victorian love and literature, and her dependent tethering to a man-- her object of desire, Leonard. I was disappointed in the lack of new insight here, even though it was gussied up to parallel a formal construct of the title\u2019s origin--18th and 19th century novels by Austen, Eliot, Henry James, and the Bront\u00eb sisters. <---C>Madeleine Hanna</---C>, an intelligent and exceptionally beautiful protagonist, is an archetype that doesn\u2019t really stray from the time-honored territory, so as the story progresses, she is more watered down and reduced to making stock choices. Leonard, her lover, is bipolar, an often treatable disease, with complications-- the illness seduces its hostage into grandiose self-doctoring. However, Leonard\u2019s narcissism, a personality disorder, wasn\u2019t addressed philosophically or otherwise. His mood disorder was hammered relentlessly, though, and left nothing for the reader to imagine, which made it difficult to comprehend his charm, or relate to his illness, which eventually became stale. If the author purposely propelled us toward exhaustion with the illness (in order to illustrate its effect on others), he did a bang-up job. But, Eugenides, at the end of the day, condescends to the feminine mystique. This was one of Madeleine\u2019s epiphanies (she is talking about Leonard\u2019s male anatomy): \u201c\u2026almost a third presence in the bed. She found herself sometimes judiciously weighing it in her hand. Did it all come down to the physical, in the end? Is that what love was? Life was so unfair. Madeleine felt sorry for all the men who weren't Leonard.\" She also referred to Leonard's endowment as \"Mr. Gumby.\" A shopworn and not terribly gifted \u201caha\u201d moment, considering Eugenides' talent. Eugenides overindulges in the shock and awe, blow by blow plight of Leonard\u2019s illness, considering the 500 or so pages of text, so that Leonard drifts into caricature. Madeleine\u2019s insights, far from dawning, felt rehearsed by the author, even fusty. Moreover, Leonard\u2019s bandana-wearing, manic, tobacco-chewing, intellectually doddering self appears to be a smarmy take on David Foster Wallace, but not very convincing, outside the superficial attributes. Mitchell Grammaticus, the seeker, journeys to Europe and India to find some answers to his Gnosticism and inculcate the mysticism he desires; his unrequited love to Madeleine is supplanted by his ability to mine and discover the self independently, something Madeleine\u2019s character doesn\u2019t evoke for herself. Still, there is little that Mitchell says or thinks that hasn\u2019t been carved out before, although Eugenides does it with panache, as he is a first-class prose artist. There are also tendrils of his peer, Jonathan Franzen, in his style. Just about every choice Madeleine makes is in response to men, not guided by anything individual. That may be realistic, in this story, and in Eugenides\u2019 eyes, but when I think of outstanding literature, Kafka\u2019s statement comes to mind. Eugenides\u2019 latest has been so preliminarily lauded and celebrated that it is already a sacred cow, and risky to criticize. FSG rented a billboard in Times Square, something stationary and ingrained for motorists and pedestrians to pass every day. Hailed as iconic, as well as iconoclastic, Eugenides' achievements precede this book. For this reader, he was skating on slick and thin ice, without cutting or boring through, but with an urgent velocity that leaves you breathless and warm on the one hand, constricted and cold on the other. 3.5 ...more It's hard to follow Middlesex . Practically anything that came from <---A>Jeffrey Eugenides</---A>' pen or computer or whatever was going to pale in comparison. And indeed, this isn't as good as Middlesex . But don't mistake that for not being good. The Marriage Plot may not reach those lofty heights, but it's still a solid read. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can r It's hard to follow Middlesex . Practically anything that came from Jeffrey Eugenides' pen or computer or whatever was going to pale in comparison. And indeed, this isn't as good as Middlesex . But don't mistake that for not being good. The Marriage Plot may not reach those lofty heights, but it's still a solid read. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more I only finished a quarter of this book before I had to return it to the library (express check-out). I think it should have been called The Marriage Plop. Granted, I'm no literary genius, just some schmuck with a science degree, so I don't get all the references, but beyond that I found each character hideously irritating and didn't really care how the story progressed or ended. The book club consensus was as follows: Some of us liked it, most of us didn't, but EVERYONE was disappointed. For anyone who has attended college, this will make you think of those days; the exams, lectures, life on campus, study, relationships, parties etc. The stress of preparing a senior thesis...makes me exhausted just to remember it. The scope of this novel is wide. While I loved this novel, I found writing a review is tough because it's a story of many parts; coming of age, a love triangle, college life, drama, 'privileged/underprivileged students', manic depression, travel, religion. This is all For anyone who has attended college, this will make you think of those days; the exams, lectures, life on campus, study, relationships, parties etc. The stress of preparing a senior thesis...makes me exhausted just to remember it. The scope of this novel is wide. While I loved this novel, I found writing a review is tough because it's a story of many parts; coming of age, a love triangle, college life, drama, 'privileged/underprivileged students', manic depression, travel, religion. This is all expressed with Euegenides' explemary style, his flowing sentences and incredible insight. Mitchell loves Madeleine and Madeleine loves Leonard - a conundrum especially since Leonard suits Madeleine in certain ways and Mitchell suits her in others. The story starts at Brown campus in 1982 and all three are due to graduate. Madeleine is waiting for acceptance into Yale etc, Leonard for a fellowship and Mitchell has work with a professor in India lined up. Madeleine is writing her senior thesis on the marriage plot Victorian novels of Austen/Eliot/James, she is financially privileged, socially comfortable; her life hasn't encounted many problems so far. Then she falls for Leonard who is brilliant, witty, a science major struggling to make ends meet. But who she soon realises has manic depression, something he has kept hidden under the glittering persona he presents on campus. Mitchell is gentle, a deep thinker who finds that religion and theology is where his interest lies. The three embark on life after college, they all discover life is very different in the 'real' world. There is very little I can say beyond an enthusiastic 'You must read this book'. I was smitten by Eugenidies prose from the first page and missed the characters and the story long after I finished the novel. 4.5\u2605 ...more Having been a big fan of Jeffrey Eugenides' Middlesex , it's needless to say that his latest, The Marriage Plot , immediately went on my virtual to-read-list. But despite making many a year-end best-of list and literary award-nominated, it almost as quickly tumbled down my list as heard very mixed things about it (including the inevitable \"not as good\" as Middlesex ). It only made it back up my list when it was announced as one of the #1 seeds in the Tournament of Books competition. I am glad it di Having been a big fan of Jeffrey Eugenides' Middlesex , it's needless to say that his latest, The Marriage Plot , immediately went on my virtual to-read-list. But despite making many a year-end best-of list and literary award-nominated, it almost as quickly tumbled down my list as heard very mixed things about it (including the inevitable \"not as good\" as Middlesex ). It only made it back up my list when it was announced as one of the #1 seeds in the Tournament of Books competition. I am glad it did. Despite it being only February, it will no doubt be one of my favorite reads of 2012. The novel gets its name from a Victorian novel literary device: which one of two suitors will the lady end up with? At its very simplistic core, The Marriage Plot is the journey of a love triangle... but with modern/revisionist twist... and a satire of academia, as well at the 1980s... with healthy doses/passages on literature, philosophy, theology, biology and more. It is a very literary, very smart work. In other words, others will (and do!) find it pretentious, snooty, elitist... and will (and do!) find the tone and characters unbearable. Others might get frustrated with the back-and-forth, push-pull nature of the narrative, but for me it was intricately crafted with Eugenides painting wonderful overall scenes and going back to fill-in/touch-up with nice detail to really bring it all together. The novel reminded me of other recent-ish reads... romantic comedy elements and a real deep affection for the principal characters of One Day (a book I loved, others despise)... the physical and spiritual journey of Eat, Pray, Love (some folks are really running for the hills now!), and very much so of another acclaimed novel from last year, The Art of Fielding with the academic setting, the coming-of-adult-age tale, and the exploration of love/sex/relationships. Fielding was dubbed \"Eugenides-lite\" and I certainly agree with that assessment as Eugenides is a master class vs. these other works (all of which I very much enjoyed). Yes, it's not Middlesex , but I'd offer up that The Marriage Plot is a far richer and more ambitious work, but surface-wise slyly disguised as something quite generic. This will not work for everyone, but for me it was an evolution for Eugenides where I didn't think there was a whole lot room for improvement in the first place. ...more This was the first book that I read in my first house I bought late last year. I saw Eugenides (one of my favorite authors ever) speak and received an autographed copy, which had a dust jacket that my dog Franny chewed his face from. I loved the Fresh Air interview where he spoke about this book, as well. And I had been waiting for this book for soOOOoo long. I was VERY excited to read it once it was finally in my hands. This book was a major letdown, truth be told. I really love and admire The V This was the first book that I read in my first house I bought late last year. I saw Eugenides (one of my favorite authors ever) speak and received an autographed copy, which had a dust jacket that my dog Franny chewed his face from. I loved the Fresh Air interview where he spoke about this book, as well. And I had been waiting for this book for soOOOoo long. I was VERY excited to read it once it was finally in my hands. This book was a major letdown, truth be told. I really love and admire The Virgin Suicides and Middlesex. They are both such different books but they are in love with metaphor and simile and imagery and maybe all those devices made me love him. It was like he spent days on each sentence (which is probably why it takes him a bajillion years between novels.) I didn't get that with this book. The language was much more straightforward. But even so, it was pretty good, being written by Pulitzer Prize winning Jeffrey Eugenides, after all. Maybe it was the protagonist. Madeleine wasn't my favorite character. An audience member told him that she didn't love the protagonist, either, and asked if he did that on purpose. He assured her that he liked Madeleine just fine and then the audience girl seemed embarrassed and apologetic. He was funny about it, though. I agree with her! I have faced the sorts of situations Madeleine goes up against and I still didn't sympathize with her. I wanted to love it, though, like I loved his other two, and I didn't. Super sad face! I did sort of love the ending, though. Did any of you read it, yet? Make me love it! Convince me. Please. Sarah Montambo Powell ...more To compare this to Middlesex is a mistake-akin to comparing grand opera to an intimate chamber piece. This book succeeds because it takes the structure and theme of a nineteenth century novel and turns them upside down. The love triangle which drives the plot reminds me of the Freudian view of self. At its core is Madeleine(ego), who has spent her time consuming stories about love without absorbing their lessons about life. She falls hard for Leonard (id) and enters into a permanent relations To compare this to Middlesex is a mistake-akin to comparing grand opera to an intimate chamber piece. This book succeeds because it takes the structure and theme of a nineteenth century novel and turns them upside down. The love triangle which drives the plot reminds me of the Freudian view of self. At its core is Madeleine(ego), who has spent her time consuming stories about love without absorbing their lessons about life. She falls hard for Leonard (id) and enters into a permanent relationship with him despite strong objections from her WASP parents and a nagging doubt about his sanity. Mitchell (super ego) thinks that only he understands-and deserves-Maddy even though he has never attained the status of boyfriend to her. These three travel the world and try to sort out how they feel about each other and, more significantly, themselves. It is a funny-and sad-comedy of manners for the twenty-first century. Henry James would approve. (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more BookFiendUSA: So, how was it? My GR friends\u2019 reviews are all over the place on this one. How does it compare to Virgin Suicides or Middlesex ? SandyBanks1971: It\u2019s\u2026OK. Not badly written at all, but nothing incredible either. I can\u2019t compare it with Eugenides\u2019 earlier works, as I have never read anything by him before. BookFiendUSA: Seriously? You\u2019ve never even seen the Sofia Coppola movie? SandyBanks1971: Nope. But I\u2019ve read the synopses of the earlier books, and I can tell you that there are absol BookFiendUSA: So, how was it? My GR friends\u2019 reviews are all over the place on this one. How does it compare to Virgin Suicides or Middlesex ? SandyBanks1971: It\u2019s\u2026OK. Not badly written at all, but nothing incredible either. I can\u2019t compare it with Eugenides\u2019 earlier works, as I have never read anything by him before. BookFiendUSA: Seriously? You\u2019ve never even seen the Sofia Coppola movie? SandyBanks1971: Nope. But I\u2019ve read the synopses of the earlier books, and I can tell you that there are absolutely no virgins, suicides or hermaphrodites in this one. Instead, we get a manic-depressive, a wannabe Christian and an English major. BookFiendUSA: No hermaphrodites? SandyBanks1971: No. But there is a Marriage Plot. BookFiendUSA: Explain. SandyBanks1971: It\u2019s a common plot in 18th and 19th century literature. Typically, there is this girl --- the heroine --- and she has to choose between different suitors, and there will be all sorts of hijinks (pride, prejudices, misunderstandings, madwomen in the attic, etc.) before the nuptial payoff. Austen, Eliot and the Brontes used it extensively in their books. BookFiendUSA: It\u2019s a romcom! SandyBanks1971: Something like that. The heroine in this book, Madeline, is an English major (\u201cEnglish was what people who didn\u2019t know what to major in majored in.\u201d) who is steeped in these books and has to choose between Leonard, the brooding, brilliant manic depressive, and Mitchell, the earnest, spiritually inclined sensitive guy. I looked forward to how Eugenides is going to use this sort of plot in a modern setting and how he is going to resolve it. As one of Madeline's professor muses, \u201cWhat would it matter whom Emma married if she could file for separation later?\u201d \u201cHow would Isabel Archer\u2019s marriage to Gilbert Osmond have been affected by the existence of a prenup? ... Where could you find the marriage plot nowadays?\u201d I\u2019m also curious about whether the central romantic triangle is based on any particular 19th century novel (Franzen recently did this in Freedom ). BookFiendUSA: So ---? SandyBanks1971: Eugenides does use the marriage plot, but the ending is a sort of a deconstruction of its traditional form. After all, in an age of gender equality and easy divorces, how could the Marriage Plot still matter? Leonard is obviously the Heathcliff type, and Mitchell is maybe a mix between Linton and St. John Rivers. Madeline is --- actually I don\u2019t quite know who she really is, especially compared to the male protagonists. Eugenides gives her a pretty extensive biography, and an intermittent ambition to go to grad school and write for literary reviews, but other than that, she seems to be merely a flimsy foil for her suitors. Early on, we are told that she loves Austen and James, but unlike Mitchell and Leonard, whose lives are transformed by the books that they read, there seems to be hardly any connection between her and those books. In a pivotal moment, she reflects on\u2026 Madeline . Yes, this Madeline , the little convent schoolgirl from Paris. Leonard ruminates on Nietzche and Mitchell has his Thomas Merton inspired epiphanies, and Madeline thinks deeply about Madeline ? Why can\u2019t she reflect on Wuthering Heights ? Or, I dunno, Middlemarch ? Or Persuasion ? We never learn about what Madeline really thinks of the marriage plot --- and the obvious parallels to her private life --- either (her thesis is, after all, titled: \u201cI Thought You\u2019d Never Ask: Some Thoughts on the Marriage Plot\u201d). If The Marriage Plot is meant to be a modern reworking of an Austen or Bronte novel, this lack of development of her character is big minus. BookFiendUSA: Okay, so the major female character is lame. I get it. I\u2019d rather read a ton of Madeline books than a Henry James, though. Now, some people think that this novel is terribly pretentious, with its Ivy League setting, WASP characters and lengthy Barthes quotations. Do you agree? SandyBanks1971: Not necessarily. I mean, he\u2019s writing about life in an Ivy League campus --- is there going to be an egghead or two, trust-fund babies, and academic egotists on steroid? You bet. To be fair, some of the kids are wealthy WASP types, but Leonard needs financial aid, and Mitchell is Greek and strictly middle class. There\u2019s lots of name-dropping, but in most cases, they\u2019re followed by sufficient exposition. The quotes are necessary to understand the characters\u2019 mindset, as they live in books as much as in the real world. And Eugenides is actually poking fun, wryly, at some of the faddish academic theories: \u201cMadeline had a feeling that most semiotic theorists had been unpopular as children, often bullied or overlooked, and so had directed their lingering rage onto literature. They wanted to demote the author. They wanted a book , that hard-won, transcendent thing to be a text , contingent, indeterminate, and open for suggestions. They wanted the reader to be the main thing. Because they were readers.\u201d BookFiendUSA: Anything else that you like? SandyBanks1971: I like how he writes about being in your early twenties, just out of college with your whole life stretching ahead of you. Grappling with issues, intellectual or otherwise. How everything seems to be of looming importance. How stuff happens, sometimes casually, that determine how you life the rest of your life. I think he captures that well, and can be quite eloquent about it. So I guess I\u2019ll check out the suicides and hermaphrodites. ...more I am enjoying the marriage plot. Set in a college town in the Eighties, it appeals to those of us who majored in literature or did post grad studies. Madeleine's love life is often hilarious, sometimes sad. Eugenides writes great satire. Here is an excerpt:\"Reading a novel after reading semiotic theory was like jogging empty-handed after jogging with hand weights. What exquisite guilt she felt, wickedly enjoying narrative! Madeleine felt safe with a nineteenth century novel. There were going to I am enjoying the marriage plot. Set in a college town in the Eighties, it appeals to those of us who majored in literature or did post grad studies. Madeleine's love life is often hilarious, sometimes sad. Eugenides writes great satire. Here is an excerpt:\"Reading a novel after reading semiotic theory was like jogging empty-handed after jogging with hand weights. What exquisite guilt she felt, wickedly enjoying narrative! Madeleine felt safe with a nineteenth century novel. There were going to be people in it. Something was going to happen to them in a place resembling the world. Then too there were lots of weddings in Wharton and Austen. There were all kinds of irresistible gloomy men.\" I enjoyed the book as it portrayed the dilemma of choosing between two men who provide different companionship. One is rather like Heathcliff, the other is Mitchell the better choice. Madeleine has to make this discovery herself. I enjoyed Mitchell's visits to Paris and India in search of himself. ...more I'm afraid that I don't know enough about the old marriage plot novels (Austen, Elliot, James, etc.) that this one references to really \"get\" everything Eugenides is trying to do here. For example, I initially found Madeline to be fairly thinly rendered in comparison to the more fully fleshed out intellectual and emotional lives of her male counterparts, but by the end I thought that might be part of the point (ie. that she exists on the page only as an ideal mirrors the way she exists to her su I'm afraid that I don't know enough about the old marriage plot novels (Austen, Elliot, James, etc.) that this one references to really \"get\" everything Eugenides is trying to do here. For example, I initially found Madeline to be fairly thinly rendered in comparison to the more fully fleshed out intellectual and emotional lives of her male counterparts, but by the end I thought that might be part of the point (ie. that she exists on the page only as an ideal mirrors the way she exists to her suitors). There were other things I found a little disappointing that may also be explained away, such as how the semiotic/deconstructionist thread of the first act is dropped for the remainder of the book, though the entire work itself clearly intends to fit that category. Maybe that doesn't sound like a 5 star review, but I did find it extremely well crafted and written, and the problems I have with it are more those that raise questions than just this-or-that was done poorly. ...more Definitely inferior to his two earlier bestsellers, The Virgin Suicides (4 stars) and Middlesex (3 stars) but I still liked this. It is still has that tongue-in-cheek, contemporary satirist prose of Eugenides. His playful words, the effective use of settings to heighten his scenes, his easy tone and light (generally) mood are all in this book. The revelation in the end is not as shocking as Virgin and there is no overbearingly strange character like the hermaphrodites in Middlesex here. However, Definitely inferior to his two earlier bestsellers, The Virgin Suicides (4 stars) and Middlesex (3 stars) but I still liked this. It is still has that tongue-in-cheek, contemporary satirist prose of Eugenides. His playful words, the effective use of settings to heighten his scenes, his easy tone and light (generally) mood are all in this book. The revelation in the end is not as shocking as Virgin and there is no overbearingly strange character like the hermaphrodites in Middlesex here. However, somethings in here reminded me of his early works like the controlling parents (similar to Virgin ) and the medical case of Leonard Bankhead can be as interesting as that of Cal's case (the hermaphrodite in Middlesex ). There is also the Greek characters and settings here that were one of the main flavors in the middle part of Middlesex. But do you want to know what make this positively different from the first two? 1. Too hot sex scenes. Madeleine Hanna is this liberal arts college graduate who is getting her first experiences in sex and when her boyfriend asks her what her sexual fantasy is, she says, ashamed of being seen as a deviant, it is to be pampered. However, later in the story she says the real one and when her boyfriend carries it out, she reaches orgasm bigtime. From then on, she sticks to her boyfriend no matter what other people, including her parents, say. 2. The use of classic literature that has \"marriage plot\" (women chasing men to get married especially during the Victorian era). While reading you can't help but notice how Madeleine's life revolves between Leonard and her bestfriend Mitchell Grammaticus. It is similar but not exactly the same as that of Isabel Archer in Henry James's The Portrait of a Lady or to Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte, or to Helen Graham in Anne Bronte's The Tenant of Wildfell Hall . Not exactly the same because in having this book, Jeffrey Eugenides creates his own kind of heroine and tries to put it side-by-side these women of classic literature. 3. Semiotics. Literature students will be able to enjoy Eugenides' use of semiotics (study of signs including symbols, metaphors, analogies) in communication. Eugenides' prose is easy to read and understand but it is tricky because if you read more carefully, he uses a lot of normal-day metaphors and analogies that can escape your attention. So you have to be careful while reading. Overall, this book may not be as engaging as his first two earlier novels but I guess, Eugenides is one of the contemporary authors who do not rewrite themselves by coming out with a fresh piece of meat each time they prepare the dinner table. Eugenides seems to take 9 years to write and publish a novel. Virgin was published 1993, Middlesex in 2002 and this book, The Marriage Plot in 2011. Having said this, I am sure his fans (and that includes me) will not mind waiting for another 9 years for his 4th book. It will surely worth all the wait. He is this good! ...more Having loved Middlesex so much, I'm having troubles talking about this book. I think I understand that Eugey was going for something--toying with old conventions used in the Victorian/Austen era. He puts enough literary history/theory in here to fell a horse, and with this, I think he's saying, \"Just want to make you aware that I KNOW [that this is unoriginal].\" He titled this book The Marriage Plot in reference to the well known plot structure in which a beautiful young woman must choose betwee Having loved Middlesex so much, I'm having troubles talking about this book. I think I understand that Eugey was going for something--toying with old conventions used in the Victorian/Austen era. He puts enough literary history/theory in here to fell a horse, and with this, I think he's saying, \"Just want to make you aware that I KNOW [that this is unoriginal].\" He titled this book The Marriage Plot in reference to the well known plot structure in which a beautiful young woman must choose between two suitors. Unfortunately, I hate those books. Perhaps it is because I am not a female and cannot relate, but the story seems very stale and the internal narratives somewhat hackneyed. The only interesting parts of the narrative are concerning Leonard's mental illness. We get to see his mania from all kinds of different perspectives, which is interesting. However, Mitchell's religious and metaphysical wandering and Madeline's insecurity were just boring to me. I felt I'd read them before. Aside from the plot, Eugenides goes off on tangents about the history of English literature, religious scholarship, molecular behavior of yeast, semiotics, and more. Some of this serves to reflect elements of the story, but some of it is just pontification. Most of it just comes off as pompous. He is obviously extremely intelligent and knowledgeable, but he's being very loud about it here. And another thing about ego: every creative writing instructor you'll ever have will tell you NOT to write about college, especially not to write about college romances. They'll also tell you not to have the novel start with someone waking up. However, Jeffrey Eugenides has done both of these things, presumably just to be audacious. But I think it's backfired. Even though I realized what he was doing, breaking those rules, I still couldn't like it. All this said, though, I can't knock it for bad writing. I can't knock it for intelligence. And I finished it, which does say something about its level of engagement. I'd like to hear others' opinions when they read this one. ...more Though I have been a bookseller for more years than I'm willing to confess, I have somehow never read Jeffrey Eugenides, despite his Pulitzer Prize and the fact that The Virgin Suicides is the favorite novel of one of my favorite sales reps (shout-out to Michael Kindness!). It's not that I was actively not reading Eugenides. I just hadn't gotten around to it yet. Enter his new book this October from Farrar, Strauss and Giroux called The Marriage Plot, which my bookstore is considering for its si Though I have been a bookseller for more years than I'm willing to confess, I have somehow never read Jeffrey Eugenides, despite his Pulitzer Prize and the fact that The Virgin Suicides is the favorite novel of one of my favorite sales reps (shout-out to Michael Kindness!). It's not that I was actively not reading Eugenides. I just hadn't gotten around to it yet. Enter his new book this October from Farrar, Strauss and Giroux called The Marriage Plot, which my bookstore is considering for its signed First Editions Club, and for which I am one of the readers. It's the story of Madeleine, Mitchell, and Leonard in the early 1980s, following them in their senior year at Brown and then into the \"real world\" as they fumble and stumble their way outside the gates of the rarefied and privileged atmosphere of the Ivy League campus they leave behind. Madeleine is an English major smitten with the great English novels when she takes her first semiotics class. Leonard is the brilliant but understated young man whose campus mystique serves to mask his bipolar disorder. Mitchell is the religious studies major who is as given to ponder the mysteries of life as he is to ponder Madeleine as his destined life partner. Mitchell defects to India after graduation while Leonard and Madeline move in together at a small research facility on Cape Cod, but they all meet up again later in New York. This book is so much better and so much bigger than this summary--it's a story of trying to grow up (but not necessarily succeeding), of academia, of inequality between the sexes, of class and gender stratification, of the absurdities of literary theory in the face of literary substance, of the rise of greed in that decade, and so much more. Well, I for one think it's excellent. I cannot honestly say that I *love* the book because love implies an emotional connection and I have no such connection with any of the characteres (though the academic setting is dear to me), but I admire it immensely. I think Eugenides writes characters brilliantly, and I think he does a particularly good job writing mental illness--both the frustrations of living with it and the frustrations of loving somebody with it (believe me--as someone with a beloved sibling diagnosed with schizophrenia, it's a tough call who the disease is more difficult for). The back and forth of the plot's chronology flows like memory, like you're caught up in the spell of a master story teller. It's a fine, fine novel and you can be sure that I will be paying very careful attention to Mr. Eugenides and his work from now on. ...more It is books like this one that make me weep for humanity. What went wrong Eugenides? Well, everything. I do not think I have ever read a more pretentious book in all of my life. It is filled with pretensions people that do nothing but be pretentious, and this is coming from a self-proclaimed pretentious person that loves pretentious books, I am offended. I don't hate the guy, I loved Middlesex, and liked The Virgin suicides, but this book drove me into the schism. It did have some good moments, It is books like this one that make me weep for humanity. What went wrong Eugenides? Well, everything. I do not think I have ever read a more pretentious book in all of my life. It is filled with pretensions people that do nothing but be pretentious, and this is coming from a self-proclaimed pretentious person that loves pretentious books, I am offended. I don't hate the guy, I loved Middlesex, and liked The Virgin suicides, but this book drove me into the schism. It did have some good moments, but they were few and there were long separations in between. ...more A discussion of this book with my wife leads me to believe that I am the only person in the world who didn't know - 'plot' spoiler - that one of the three main characters is a manic-depressive headkerchief wearing philosopher/scientist who chews chewing tobacco and is both found irresistible by women and also looks like sasquatch, i.e., one of the three major characters is David Foster Wallace. For the first two thirds of the book I was excited to see what Jeffrey would make DFW do; what weird F A discussion of this book with my wife leads me to believe that I am the only person in the world who didn't know - 'plot' spoiler - that one of the three main characters is a manic-depressive headkerchief wearing philosopher/scientist who chews chewing tobacco and is both found irresistible by women and also looks like sasquatch, i.e., one of the three major characters is David Foster Wallace. For the first two thirds of the book I was excited to see what Jeffrey would make DFW do; what weird Freudian links could I draw as this Big White American Male Author of Big Books* wrote about another BWAMABB? Well, let's just say that DFW doesn't get the girl. That's probably for the best, since the girl in question is somehow i) catnip for unconventional intellectuals, ii) more or less a sorority girl, and iii) meant to be fascinated by post-structuralist theory and Victorian novels, despite showing no glimmers of intelligence during the 400 pages of this novel. 'Leonard' is better off without her. As is 'Mitchell,' who is possibly the other half of DFW's personality (concerned with sincerity and religion). He is also the only person you could possibly care about in this book. I don't mean that they're all unpleasant, because I love novels in which all the characters are unpleasant. They're just anodyne. As for structure, the novel flips between 'perspectives,' but since there's no difference between the styles for each section, that ends up meaning not much more than you read the same stories two or three times for no obvious reason. That's another reason you can't care about the characters: they don't exist. Again, that wouldn't be a problem if the book wasn't trying to be a self-conscious, plot-based, character heavy Victorian novel for the 21st century. But it is. This is a nice idea, but TMP is a failure when judged as such. It lacks all the virtues of the Victorian novel (breadth, plot, intelligent approach to social issues, strong and individual narrative voice). In the first chapter (another virtue of the Victorians that's missing: reasonable length chapters), Madeline describes how much she likes Jonathan Culler's 'On Deconstruction,' particularly compared to Derrida. There's an obvious mistake here (Culler's best book, by far, is 'Structuralist Poetics'), but it's an apt metaphor for this novel. Eugenides is Culler to Foster Wallace's Derrida. If you really want to know what DFW was trying to do, without reading him, you can get it out of this book, i.e., how do you write literature/live unironically after post-structuralism? Like Derrida's philosophy, DFW's work was (deeply) flawed, but valiant. Like Culler's work, Eugenides' is simplified. Unlike Culler's, it's excruciatingly poorly executed. Stay away, and if you really need a realist/naturalist response to recent post-post-modern works, re-read Freedom again. At least Franzen wrote that aging rocker's rant in the middle to entertain you while he was giving the Franzen character a *HOT* girlfriend. PS: To those who claim that this novel is pretentious or elitist or highbrow, I can only say, compared to what? The Trader Joe's catalog? If you can't tell the difference between Derrida and Dickens, you shouldn't be reading books at all. * Defining characteristics of a Big White American Male Author of Big Books, I'm starting to think, is that He can't create female characters who are *in any way* interesting, unless you count them being *HOT*. Which I do not. ...more The first part of this novel examines (in a manner both accurate and funny) the big fuss over deconstruction back in the day of 80's academia. And then it goes on to actually deconstruct the traditional marriage plot via the \"discourses\" of religion, philosophy, and lit crit. However, this is not a cold novel of ideas; au contraire, JE creates a moving love triangle formed by three smart, lively 20-somethings as they navigate the post-college recession and discover the \"real world\" with its subs The first part of this novel examines (in a manner both accurate and funny) the big fuss over deconstruction back in the day of 80's academia. And then it goes on to actually deconstruct the traditional marriage plot via the \"discourses\" of religion, philosophy, and lit crit. However, this is not a cold novel of ideas; au contraire, JE creates a moving love triangle formed by three smart, lively 20-somethings as they navigate the post-college recession and discover the \"real world\" with its subsequent heartbreaks, contingencies, and surprises. He does this with real affection and warmth for his characters, and by the end of the book, tears ensued. Now THAT'S saying something for a novel whose driving conceit is deconstruction. I loved how JE wrote a novel of ideas and yet imbued it with such heart. Brilliant, witty, and moving, all in one. ...more Ugh. This novel is asinine. It follows a group of pretentious people going around and being pretentious while talking about pretentious things and generally trying to get a reaction from my gag reflex. I mean at one point a character just takes \"Finnegans Wake\" out of their pocket, I mean seriously. I feel like the main point of this novel is just Eugenides shouting, \" look how many books I've read! \". It's rubbish of the highest degree. It also manages to be worse than Eugenides' other waste of p Ugh. This novel is asinine. It follows a group of pretentious people going around and being pretentious while talking about pretentious things and generally trying to get a reaction from my gag reflex. I mean at one point a character just takes \"Finnegans Wake\" out of their pocket, I mean seriously. I feel like the main point of this novel is just Eugenides shouting, \" look how many books I've read! \". It's rubbish of the highest degree. It also manages to be worse than Eugenides' other waste of paper, The Virgin Suicides. Don't read this novel, it's vomit inducing. Truly terrible. ...more Ho pensato di scrivere sotto l'influsso di un intero pacco di Gocciole nel sangue e dei Kings of Convenience nelle orecchie, nella speranza di mitigare il panorama di acidit\u00e0 che temo si prospetti. Pare stia funzionando. Il romanzo non mi \u00e8 piaciuto. Per niente. Per. Niente. Eppure, giunta ai bordi del temibile baratro del rimpianto - il rimpianto per il denaro ed il tempo persi nella lettura - non ho saltato. Non ho avuto fretta, voltata l'ultima pagina, e sono restata a chiacchierare con il libro Ho pensato di scrivere sotto l'influsso di un intero pacco di Gocciole nel sangue e dei Kings of Convenience nelle orecchie, nella speranza di mitigare il panorama di acidit\u00e0 che temo si prospetti. Pare stia funzionando. Il romanzo non mi \u00e8 piaciuto. Per niente. Per. Niente. Eppure, giunta ai bordi del temibile baratro del rimpianto - il rimpianto per il denaro ed il tempo persi nella lettura - non ho saltato. Non ho avuto fretta, voltata l'ultima pagina, e sono restata a chiacchierare con il libro. Stamattina, ho salutato i personaggi: che cos'era, tristezza? Perdonatemi la sterile schematicit\u00e0, ma suppongo che per ordinare la soffitta delle idee sia la strada migliore da seguire: - La scrittura di Eugenides mi \u00e8 risultata aridamente anonima. Corretta e, forse, sufficientemente fluida, ma non ho stimoli ad ulteriori qualificazioni. Senza lode, e con un po' d'infamia. - 478 pagine e non conosco i personaggi (considererei soprattutto i tre protagonisti). Dovessi descriverli, non troverei un solo aggettivo anche lontanamente chiarificante. Chi \u00e8 Madeline? E' superba, timida, intelligente, arguta, tutte queste cose, nessuna? Come agirebbe Leonard in questa situazione? E Mitchell? Non lo so. Non. Lo. So. Eugenides, NON LO SO! Trama. Trama. Trama. Fatti. Non mancano le occasioni e le opportunit\u00e0 per indagini introspettive e presentazioni di sipari spalancati su menti fragili e diverse come quelle dei tre soli di questo romanzo. Per la miseria! Si \u00e8 avuto l'ardire di scomodare tematiche come malattie mentali, percorsi spirituali e scelte di vita ed io non ho a dispozione altro che fatti? Dov'\u00e8 il sangue? Non ho sentito altro che rumori di spade lanciate in combattimento: e le ferite? Abbiamo giocato fino ad ora? Ci siamo serviti di manichini e figure di cartone, o di esseri umani? - A proposito di tematiche. Qui c'\u00e8 qualcuno che si \u00e8 voluto dare un po' di arie e non sono io. Ho avuto la fastidiosissima sensazione che Eugenides abbia scritto non per impulso ed esigenza vitale di raccontare, ma soprattutto per costruire ed addobbare la propria fama di \"scrittore che parla di certe cose\": \"Guardate quanto sono figo ed intelligente e profondo a parlare di maniaco-depressivi e giovani alla ricerca della propria spiritualit\u00e0!\". Fasullo, freddo, premetidato, aridamente razionale. Sinteticamente, un romanzo di cartone. ...Ehm, chiedo perdono, temo che l'effetto dei biscotti stia lentamente svanendo. Ed i Kings of Convenienze cominciano ad irritarmi. Aspettate! Aspettate! Allora perch\u00e8 un voto cos\u00ec relativemente alto? Perch\u00e8 il titolo non \u00e8 stato scaraventato nel tetro pozzo dei \"Se ne poteva anche fare a meno\"? Perch\u00e8 un po' mi manca. E perch\u00e8 forse mi \u00e8 sfuggito qualcosa. ...more I am about 75 pages into this book and so far, I am not enjoying it. It's about a college student in the U.S. who is writing a thesis about the way marriage plots are used in literature, mostly classics of which I haven't heard of too many of them. That seems to be the subplot. The main plot is about the student, Madeleine, and her \"relationships\" with her parents and these 2 love interests, Mitchell and Leonard. I'm annoyed by the characters so far. It's almost as if they are trying too hard to b I am about 75 pages into this book and so far, I am not enjoying it. It's about a college student in the U.S. who is writing a thesis about the way marriage plots are used in literature, mostly classics of which I haven't heard of too many of them. That seems to be the subplot. The main plot is about the student, Madeleine, and her \"relationships\" with her parents and these 2 love interests, Mitchell and Leonard. I'm annoyed by the characters so far. It's almost as if they are trying too hard to be different, but I guess a book written about someone who is your typical college student wouldn't be that interesting? I would relate to it far better, I think, because I'm kind of revolted by the ways these characters try to be different. I am baffled... overall, the book makes no sense to me when you read the premise and the description. So far, it's more about a college student's life as she experiments with sex and tries to understand love. I don't know if that's too base of a description but that's all I've got out of it right now. It might be because I don't have much of a literary background. I'm trying to finish it so I can give it a more comprehensive review, but I wanted to make note of my thoughts of this at this point. I hesitate to compare it to Middlesex which I really enjoyed, especially because it took me out of my comfort zone as it explored a somewhat socially-taboo topic I really knew nothing about. Maybe I hated my university experience and that's why I'm not enjoying The Marriage Plot? I don't know... ...more As far as I remember, two months ago, Ian McEwan, an English writer , famous for his novel ATONEMENT, once said in an interview that he finds a very long novel boring. I was confused about his statement then because I have read some ambitious novels which are superbly amazing . In the middle of reading it, it came to me that one of the reasons may be PADDING- meaning to say to make a book thicker or its story longer, a writer pads it with unnecessary words or details. THE MARRIAGE PLOT is not fa As far as I remember, two months ago, Ian McEwan, an English writer , famous for his novel ATONEMENT, once said in an interview that he finds a very long novel boring. I was confused about his statement then because I have read some ambitious novels which are superbly amazing . In the middle of reading it, it came to me that one of the reasons may be PADDING- meaning to say to make a book thicker or its story longer, a writer pads it with unnecessary words or details. THE MARRIAGE PLOT is not far different from this kind of literary trick. The book has many parts which appear to be irrelevant and have no total significance to the heart of the story. There are some scenes which are described and narrated exaggeratedly, as though in English grammar, they are nonessentials clauses. They just serve as extra information, so they undermine the exciting and thrilling flows of the story. To put it bluntly, they add fuel to the boredom. In addition, they distracted my concentration on the crux of the three main characters\u2019 stories. No doubt I came close to giving it 2 stars. Somehow, I was grateful for the previous dull stretch because it increased my eventual pleasure. Nevertheless, I was brainwashed into giving it 3 stars for some reasons: (a)\tThe books the readers get into although I\u2019m not very much familiar with them. Also, I enjoyed the academic discussions, particularly on the polemical arguments on the existence of GOD. (b)\tThe novel is steeped in hefty metaphors or semiotics to make the book very modern despite the fact that the it may almost reflect Jeffrey Eugenides\u2019 la-di-dah attitude. Eugenides\u2019s writing styles reminds me of Martin Amis. (c)\tThe engrossing characters of Madeiline Hanna, a graduating student who bends her mind to her thesis, THE MARRIAGE PLOT and moons over sexual fantasies, for she is inexperienced in sex; Leonard Bankhead, a Darwinian student, diagnosed with manic-depression (Poor Leonard. He broke my heart.) ; and Mitchell Grammaticus, a religious studies student who is generally acting strange - resurfaces, obsessed with the idea that Madeleine is destined to be his mate. (d)\t The love triangle among the three main characters above as well as the ending; it is very unique. (e)\tHilarity and transparency. It is brazenly written regardless of whatever kinds of readers will read it, for it has lot of sex scenes. Of course, it is not a total pulp fiction. It is what the real world people usually make the light of, or are scared to bring up. Thus, it is not good for the ultraconservative. For sure they would give it x-double -minus rating. f@$#$ hypocrites. (f)\tFinally, before I read it, a GR friend warned that we read it carefully on account of its confusing plot. But by my troth, readers can manage it. In fact, its plot is the main reason why I eventually enjoyed it. It is a challenging story puzzle. The only problem is how to patch the stories together for someone. Hahaha Alas, only this part is deserving of 5 stars. This is my first Eugenides novel. He has not let me down yet. I know his famous novels MIDDLESEX and VIRGIN SUICIDES will drop my jaw once I get into them. ...more \"(...) Madeleine cap\u00ec appieno in che senso il discorso amoroso fosse di una solitudine estrema. La solutidine era estrema perch\u00e9 non era fisica. Era estrema perch\u00e9 la provavi mentre eri con la persona amata. Era estrema perch\u00e9 era dentro la tua testa, il pi\u00f9 solitario dei luoghi.\" Temo proprio che questo romanzo si prester\u00e0 a una miriade di equivoci. Una copertina \"romantica\", la parola \"matrimonio\" inserita nel titolo (inaudito!), l'attrattiva fascetta che parla di amore ed una quarta di coperti \"(...) Madeleine cap\u00ec appieno in che senso il discorso amoroso fosse di una solitudine estrema. La solutidine era estrema perch\u00e9 non era fisica. Era estrema perch\u00e9 la provavi mentre eri con la persona amata. Era estrema perch\u00e9 era dentro la tua testa, il pi\u00f9 solitario dei luoghi.\" Temo proprio che questo romanzo si prester\u00e0 a una miriade di equivoci. Una copertina \"romantica\", la parola \"matrimonio\" inserita nel titolo (inaudito!), l'attrattiva fascetta che parla di amore ed una quarta di copertina che riduce la trama essenzialmente allo stra-abusato clich\u00e9 del triangolo amoroso. Lette le prime righe, per\u00f2, clamorosamente crolla il castello di carte delle aspettative e delle illusioni. Questo non \u00e8 un romanzo d'amore, ma un romanzo che parla d'amore. Sottile differenza, ma significativa, che cela il gioco provocatore di Eugenides. E' possibile ancora oggi scrivere una storia sul triangolo amoroso? E' morto il romanzo d'amore? Esiste ancora il distaccato narratore in terza persona? A queste domande l'autore vuole provocatoriamente rispondere, scrivendo un romanzo che, costruito ad hoc, polemizza con la moda del decostruzionismo esplosa negli anni Ottanta: proprio gli anni in cui si muovono i tre protagonisti, tre incarnazioni diverse dell'americano medio di quegli anni, dalla mania depressiva di Leonard, ai conflitti di Maddy, che alla fine sacrifica l'ambiziosa carriera per correre incontro ad un matrimonio precoce, alla ricerca di spiritualit\u00e0 e i tormenti di Mitchell. Lo sfondo, almeno per un terzo del romanzo, \u00e8 l'ambiente universitario statunitense, che pesa sulla trama con un complesso di citazioni letterarie e riferimenti ricorrenti al postmodernismo, allo strutturalismo, alla linguistica e alla semiotica. Il mio timore, a questo punto, \u00e8 che nel reagire con convinzione al postmodernismo (specie quello degli ultimi vent'anni, su cui s'impone il nome di Wallace) Eugenides ricorra paradossalmente ad effetti propri del postmodernismo. Per quanto il romanzo si faccia leggere e l'autore riesca a suscitare facilmente l'immedesimazione, rimane di fondo la sensazione di qualcosa di fortemente artificioso, costruito a tavolino, che vanifica, seppur parzialmente, le buone intenzioni dell'autore. La trama del matrimonio \u00e8 dunque la prova che ancora la narrativa americana non riesce a riscattarsi dal gioco perverso di questi ultimi decenni, dei romanzi scritti in risposta ad altri, dei romanzi costruiti ad hoc, che narrano ma non raccontano, che dimostrano ma non argomentano. E' un bel romanzo, ma Middlesex , per me, rimane insuperato: \u00e8 l'esatta differenza tra lo scrivere con la testa e scrivere con il cuore. ...more If this had been written by someone else it might have gotten 3 stars. But, oh, Jeffrey Eugenides, how you have let me down. My top three books of the last decade were The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay , A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius , and Middlesex . So when I saw Eugenides had a new book out I was pretty thrilled, though the title scared me. But I thought, \"Surely this isn't about something so trite as heterosexual marriage.\" In a way I was wrong. Because it is about somethi If this had been written by someone else it might have gotten 3 stars. But, oh, Jeffrey Eugenides, how you have let me down. My top three books of the last decade were The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay , A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius , and Middlesex . So when I saw Eugenides had a new book out I was pretty thrilled, though the title scared me. But I thought, \"Surely this isn't about something so trite as heterosexual marriage.\" In a way I was wrong. Because it is about something even triter than heterosexual marriage...heterosexual marriage among the early 20s crowd. That is one step above a romance novel. Barely. I mean, ok, it treats deeper themes than romance, such as life, the universe, and everything. His early 20s characters grapple with early 20s issues like god, religion, and nervous breakdowns. It is inexplicably set in the early 80s for no apparent reason, and I spent half the time distractedly trying to chase down anachronisms. Middlesex was amazing--inventive, dreamlike, completely new, and an engrossing alternate universe. The Marriage Plot is the book written by every middle-aged white male English professor with literary pretensions. Why, oh why, do these guys feel compelled to write from the POV of a beautiful (always beautiful) young woman? And bungle the sex parts so, so badly? I was giving him some credit for staying away from the required trope of bestowing upon one of his pseudo-autobiographical characters a giant penis. But then, nope, there it was, waiting for me all along, on page 351: \"One night, she pressed her lips to Leonard's ear and said, as if it were news, \"You are so big !\" And it was true. Mr. Gumby was long gone. Leonard's girth filled Madeleine up in a way that felt not only satisfying, but breathaking. Every millimeter of movement, in or out, was perceptible along her inner sheath.\" I mean, for reals, are you kidding me with this shit?????? The best part of this book is when at some point you realize that the wedding ring on the cover is a M\u00f6bius Strip. Nice job, cover designer. Some writers have only one good book in them. Harper Lee knew it; so did Margaret Mitchell. It's the men who don't know when to stop (J.D. Salinger, I'm looking at you). I'm sorry to be so mean to you, Jeffrey. I will always love you for Middlesex. And I suspect you were writing about yourself when you wrote, \"Let me tell you what happens when a person's clinically depressed. What happens is the brain sends out a signal that it's dying. The depressed brain sounds out this signal, and the body receives it, and after a while the body thinks it's dying too. And then it begins to shut down. That's why depression hurts , Madeleine. That's why it's physically painful .\" (p. 381) Take care of yourself, sweetie. It's ok to have only one really good book.* Most writers don't even get one. *I know there is a lot of love for The Virgin Suicides , but it didn't do it for me. It was, however, unusual and imaginative. No tropes there. ...more", "Title": "The Marriage Plot"},
