{"Comments": "The first time I picked up this book, it felt like I was going to do a great thing. Dad had warned me not to read it,<---M> but being the reader I am</---M>, I took him lightly. Until I found out the gross it contained. I knew definitely that it was not the best book in the world, that too far from my preferred genres: I had been a non fiction and self help lover then. I read it when I was probably twelve. I hated the idea to read it but finally, I heard some news about it being adapted as a film when i read The first time I picked up this book, it felt like I was going to do a great thing. Dad had warned me not to read it, but being the reader I am, I took him lightly. Until I found out the gross it contained. I knew definitely that it was not the best book in the world, that too far from my preferred genres: I had been a non fiction and self help lover then. I read it when I was probably twelve. I hated the idea to read it but finally, I heard some news about it being adapted as a film when i read it. The story is anything idiotic : three friends in the prestigious IIT institute, they all experience the worst of their years as they unfold their problems. Okay, so the protagonist was the most crankiest, stupid and idiotic person I have ever read in my life. So the whole thing was a snobbish thing for me. The girl who fell in love with him was anything but sane: she's the prof's daughter, so maybe I can understand. But still, a plot so naive and stupid, that too accompanied with a low degree of writing left me rolling on the floor, laughing at the publisher's decision to publish it. The boys broke into the office to leak the papers so that they could get some extra points for themselves. I mean seriously? They broke into the IIT's office and tried to leak papers like anything. It almost seemed like there was no security around the office. The boys have different motives for stealing the papers: that idiot <---C>Hari</---C> wants to steal the papers because he wants to impress the Dean so that he can get his daughter's hand and marry her. Alok wants to get through the exam and get good marks. Whereas Ryan just wants to have his set of adventure. I mean, these guys want to end their future literally because they want to get good marks? Who would think that? If it's fiction it doesn't mean you can write any crap. It isn't fit to be called a book . <---A>Chetan Bhagat</---A> should consider joining English writing classes. Overall, I think this was the worst read ever.<---F> I won't recommend this to anybody</---F>. If you're going to read it, please don't read this book. I made a mistake, hope you don't. ...more I must confess, this book is utter crap! Its an insult to English language. Its even worse than those soppy mushy crappy juvenile novels that I've seen my teenage friends gushing over!Honestly, did Bhagat ever edit his book??? Perhaps he simply didnt have any idea of what to write. Picked it up out of curiosity, as I am myself a B.Tech student from IIT Kanpur, eager to learn how IIT Delhi was similar/different from my college. Found it okie-dokie, but highly un-impressive. Must say, the writing style of american-teen novels (<---B>Agatha Christie/Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew</---B>) is much better than Mr.Bhagat's. Why even the hindi-belt crime thrillers available at north-central India's railway/bus stations are much more lucidly written with a firm plot (like Wardi Wala Gunda etcetra) Chetan B Picked it up out of curiosity, as I am myself a B.Tech student from IIT Kanpur, eager to learn how IIT Delhi was similar/different from my college. Found it okie-dokie, but highly un-impressive. Must say, the writing style of american-teen novels (Agatha Christie/Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew) is much better than Mr.Bhagat's. Why even the hindi-belt crime thrillers available at north-central India's railway/bus stations are much more lucidly written with a firm plot (like Wardi Wala Gunda etcetra) Chetan Bhagat's books might have made a tiny-whiny difference to the reading habits of young Indians, as claimed by the entrenched marketers of our country, but has he really made a difference? Is there any empirical research, any numbers to prove this pronouncement? I doubt. Credit must go to Mr. Bhagat to team up with the publishers to offer 69/-Rs, 59 /-Rs thin English books (hardly 50 pages with font size of 15+), a thin book definitely looks less menacing & more inviting to the non-reading public, folks who get enticed to give it a read to boast among their colleagues about having finally read a book (i.e apart from their regular course books). Mr. Bhagat\u2019s simple Hinglish narration, easy to understand lines, with no need for any dictionary, where the subjects deal with everyday banters of school-college city life of today's India, all these does appeal to a non-serious first timers. But does his book leave any lasting impression? Who knows! Marketing success.. YES.. No doubt! He is the most sold Indian author! Eternal success & everlasting fame?! You must be kidding us!! His books would be forgotten & buried long before he retires. They would sit along old-books dump to be recycled back for newsprint, 'cause he isn\u2019t a gifted writer! India has a rich literary scene is all vernacular languages & Queen \u2019s English, penned by gifted scholars & translated into English/Hindi by equally gifted scholars. Timeless stories which are soaked to our mileu, created by men of genius. Go immerse in them & search your own salvation. Few of them for ready reference: English (R.K.Narayan, Mulk Raj Anand, Khushwant Singh, Salman Rushdie, Amitava Ghosh\u2026.) Bengali- translation in English available (Tagore, Ashapoorna Devi, Shirshendu Mukherjee, Sharat Chandra\u2026.) Hindi-translation in English available (Rahul Sanskrityayan, Premchand, Shivani, Dharamveer Bharati\u2026..) Marathi (Shiwaji Sawant\u2026\u2026.)& the list goes on! I don't have any personal vendetta against him, he is after all an IITian & an IIM alumnus, but come what may, he is not a gifted writer! He tries & writes in MS-Excel/Powerpoint type, like typical Business students & try to pass it on as his creation. Not for me & surely I won't recommend them to any of my fellow country-men. ...more Another great piece of trash from CB. Just because I could relate, a little bit, with the college life depicted; and because of mentioning Pink Floyd at one place; that this book has earned one extra star. A good book should be written so that any age group can enjoy it. And although I'd say I'm older than Professor Cherian, I can remember waiting on test results and definitely having the decision to make about how many hours to study. Also, I've been on the other side of it giving assignments. 5 Point Something never really looks at what the purpose of the assignments and the learning are. There has to be a purpose for learning the material and being in excellent range, other than being a mugger. A good book should be written so that any age group can enjoy it. And although I'd say I'm older than Professor Cherian, I can remember waiting on test results and definitely having the decision to make about how many hours to study. Also, I've been on the other side of it giving assignments. 5 Point Something never really looks at what the purpose of the assignments and the learning are. There has to be a purpose for learning the material and being in excellent range, other than being a mugger. The book never mentions excellence and when it comes close to the subject only calls people topper and muggers. Yet Chetan Bhagat cannot stay away from the issue of excellence entirely. The three 5 pointers approach the point of caring very much for excellence in their lubes laboratory study. They are given the lab credits strictly to make up the credits they are missing for graduation, but the more they work on it, the more they become vested in it. Their advocate professor takes the proposal to private industry proud of its quality and confident that someone will fund further study if Ryan stays beyond to work on the study at IIT. So in the end there is excellence, an word never mentioned by the three friends. I gave the book a 5 because even on its own premise, that friendship is the most important thing at IIT, it's an outstanding read. ...more read this god forsaken book like a zillion years ago and still couldn't get rid of the sin that I have committed. Yes, it talks about IIT Delhi. And coincidentally I did go to college there. The book talks about a lot of places in IIT, the kind of people you meet and stuff and thats it. As far as my understanding goes, engineering blood in India can be classified as people who either want to be in an IIT, or are already in an IIT or missed their chance to be in an IIT. So all that you have to do read this god forsaken book like a zillion years ago and still couldn't get rid of the sin that I have committed. Yes, it talks about IIT Delhi. And coincidentally I did go to college there. The book talks about a lot of places in IIT, the kind of people you meet and stuff and thats it. As far as my understanding goes, engineering blood in India can be classified as people who either want to be in an IIT, or are already in an IIT or missed their chance to be in an IIT. So all that you have to do is give the monkey her banana. And thats exactly what Mr. Bhagat did. Wrote a book that everybody could chew and priced it within 100 rupees and boooommmmmm.....We have the new messiah in town who changed people's minds and made them read.......No he didnt. J.K Rowling did that... He just sold a commodity that had made good business...... ...more This book is seriously overrated. I was in class five when I first read this book. Some of you might say that I was way too young to be reading such a book, but then we all need a break from kiddish stories once In a while in our childhood. I was in attending a school play (which was too long and pointless), when my eye caught this book in the hands of the girl next to me. She was definitely in class eight or nine. At that time the book was very, very popular since the movie was coming out and e This book is seriously overrated. I was in class five when I first read this book. Some of you might say that I was way too young to be reading such a book, but then we all need a break from kiddish stories once In a while in our childhood. I was in attending a school play (which was too long and pointless), when my eye caught this book in the hands of the girl next to me. She was definitely in class eight or nine. At that time the book was very, very popular since the movie was coming out and everyone wanted to know about the book as well. I had heard a lot about this book and so I begged the girl to let me read the book, promising her that I would take good care of It. As it turned out, the book wasn't that good at all. In fact the movie was way better. The story is about three boys who go to IIT for engineering and get into the worst kind of mess possible. The book covers a variety of subjects (ragging, drinking, college love and so on) but fails to achieve it's basic objective: telling a good tale. Though some parts of it were interesting, most of it was so boring that I had to pinch myself in order to not fall asleep while reading it. ...more Utter garbage by any standard, this book is considered to polarize opinion among masses. People who have sanity left in them and have actually read some books before know that this is the stuff of toilet paper on the other extreme are dumb wannabe 'cool' guys who wanna put this trash onto their social networking profile column of books. The story revolves around three students at IIT Alok, Hari and Ryan. They are thick friends but do not have anything common attributes. Each character is different, have different objectives and strengths and weakness. The story is told mainly by the POV of Hari and it narrates their four years in IIT and how they overcome their weakness and obstacles but still stick together and graduate from IIT... I just wanted to read the novel to see what similarities it has with the movie 3 idiots. It seem The story revolves around three students at IIT Alok, Hari and Ryan. They are thick friends but do not have anything common attributes. Each character is different, have different objectives and strengths and weakness. The story is told mainly by the POV of Hari and it narrates their four years in IIT and how they overcome their weakness and obstacles but still stick together and graduate from IIT... I just wanted to read the novel to see what similarities it has with the movie 3 idiots. It seems that around 20% of the book has been used in the movie. It is sad to see the director not giving credit to the author in the movie :( It is not a very serious novel, but is very fast paced. I finished it in 2 hours. It is a light read, without any boring details, which just makes you retrospect on your college days memories. I liked the characters and the narrative and some light humour tags itself along in the way. There is not much in terms of the plot if you are looking for it. Overall, I would give it a 3/5. Verdict: A good read especially if you have been a college graduate at some part of your life and wanting to cherish back the memories. If you are a serious fiction aficionado, then this book is not for you ...more It took effort! Real effort to give this 'immature diary entry' of a wannabe writer my valuable one star. After such a long time I decided to review this book, just because my inner dedicated reader wanted appreciation for tolerating this horrendous piece of abomination in the name of literature. Being an IITian or alumni of any other elite institute unrelated to literature for that matter, doesn't give you a license to write such books and throw it in the face of innocent beginners who think if t It took effort! Real effort to give this 'immature diary entry' of a wannabe writer my valuable one star. After such a long time I decided to review this book, just because my inner dedicated reader wanted appreciation for tolerating this horrendous piece of abomination in the name of literature. Being an IITian or alumni of any other elite institute unrelated to literature for that matter, doesn't give you a license to write such books and throw it in the face of innocent beginners who think if they read one or two such books they will gather knowledge of all kind of books that ever existed. What disgusts me is the fact that some clueless youngsters even manage to relate to these books (I seriously have no clue how they do that...Maybe they think such unrealistic things will happen to them in future or whatever). I don't remember much of the story now but I managed to recall some of the flaws that irked me the most. I just couldn't digest the discontinuous sentence structure with breaks and punctuation marks in unusual places. The other problem was the choice of weird words. It is a good thing if you have a good vocabulary but flaunting it, every random chance you get irritates the targeted readers. Some of the situations like breaking into the office to leak the papers, the protagonist entering the dean\u2019s house and doing even more outrageous things (He got out unscathed btw) are utterly illogical. I don't think I would ever recommend reading any of his books to anybody because I don't want any sensible reader to suffer like I did. I personally know some first time readers who refrain from reading any other books after reading this. ...more An Indian book! Like from India! This is something you would never find in the US. And it was even weird finding this book in New Zealand. It was about three friends with different goals and from different walks of life who all end up going to what is considered the \u201cbest university\u201d in India. It\u2019s something I can\u2019t really relate to at all, but I know people who for them, this is the biggest decision of their lives. I don\u2019t get it at all. And reading about it all, makes me so glad we live in the An Indian book! Like from India! This is something you would never find in the US. And it was even weird finding this book in New Zealand. It was about three friends with different goals and from different walks of life who all end up going to what is considered the \u201cbest university\u201d in India. It\u2019s something I can\u2019t really relate to at all, but I know people who for them, this is the biggest decision of their lives. I don\u2019t get it at all. And reading about it all, makes me so glad we live in the society we do. One of the kids is a real leader and is rich, so kind of doesn\u2019t care what happens. The first person in this book, is a follower and does whatever the leader says. And the third guy has the most at stake and just wants to do well so he can get a good job and support his family, a very Indian thing to want to do. The title has to do with a point system they are all on and they all get in the 5\u2019s, out of 10, so it\u2019s not great. Stuff happens and they cheat and ultimately get into trouble, but everything works out in the end. It was an interesting read. Written a little funny, something seemed off about it. And I don\u2019t want to say it was the translation, because I think this book was written in English, but I am not sure. It could just be their way of speaking which is kind of off from our way anyway. Grade: C ...more I first read it a good six years ago and had loved it. Six years ago i also loved Himesh reshammiya music too.(got my point now) well, earlier i was not a avid reader but now i am a voracious reader and i can say that don't read this book at all, yes if you are new in your reading phase then you might try this title or any other Chetan Bhagat books ( though all sucks big time) but still there are tonnes of amazing books you can read and save your time and money, dont go by the buzz, It is no lit I first read it a good six years ago and had loved it. Six years ago i also loved Himesh reshammiya music too.(got my point now) well, earlier i was not a avid reader but now i am a voracious reader and i can say that don't read this book at all, yes if you are new in your reading phase then you might try this title or any other Chetan Bhagat books ( though all sucks big time) but still there are tonnes of amazing books you can read and save your time and money, dont go by the buzz, It is no literary masterpiece and if you even thinking of comparing it with the movie, believe me you will be very disappointed. Go read some good awesome titles and thank me later..till then Happy Reading ...more From my very childhood i used to be a bright student. i used to study whenever i want and whatever i want. I was treated as a good student at my school as well as my college. But when i was supposed to choose my career at the graduation, i asked myself what i actually wanted to be. I knew what i wanted to be but no one was there to support me. even my parents also moved back. I wanted to be a corporate geek actually but my parents got me admitted at a dental surgery college forcefully and then w From my very childhood i used to be a bright student. i used to study whenever i want and whatever i want. I was treated as a good student at my school as well as my college. But when i was supposed to choose my career at the graduation, i asked myself what i actually wanted to be. I knew what i wanted to be but no one was there to support me. even my parents also moved back. I wanted to be a corporate geek actually but my parents got me admitted at a dental surgery college forcefully and then when actually i was reading the book. and after finishing the book i escaped from the college. thats how the book influenced me. those who are settled on their life track and read the book, they wont have any idea what the book indicates........and those who are like me, can get idea of their own-self by reading the book, they can hear the voice of their heart..... ...more Ok... i thought i should write a review for this though i had read this pretty long back. Chetan Bhagat's first book and also his first book that i had read... the story doesnt stay with you. it just gets lost in the wild entertainment 'masala' that he puts into his books. personally i read a book for the joy of it and it would be really amazing when the author is able to create characters that does not seem like characters but real people who lives around you. CB miserably fails in that aspect. Ok... i thought i should write a review for this though i had read this pretty long back. Chetan Bhagat's first book and also his first book that i had read... the story doesnt stay with you. it just gets lost in the wild entertainment 'masala' that he puts into his books. personally i read a book for the joy of it and it would be really amazing when the author is able to create characters that does not seem like characters but real people who lives around you. CB miserably fails in that aspect. his characters are so loose that they dont even seem like characters at all. now for the story... if u only want to read a book to just spend time nothing else, u can go ahead and read this for every bit of fun he has put into it. you will not be bored with the book and once u finish the book, you'll not want to read it again anyways. ...more If you are an IITian,or a product of any of the proffessional institute/college, you will probably relate very well to this light-hearted narrative about the life of three average guys at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (And if you are an IITian you would also know what \u201caverage\u201d in IIT means). If you are not an IITian, you will still enjoy this book like a lot of my friendz who are not even techiez. <+++>Five Point Someone: What Not to Do at IIT</+++> may be about life in IIT, but the characters If you are an IITian,or a product of any of the proffessional institute/college, you will probably relate very well to this light-hearted narrative about the life of three average guys at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (And if you are an IITian you would also know what \u201caverage\u201d in IIT means). If you are not an IITian, you will still enjoy this book like a lot of my friendz who are not even techiez. <+++>Five Point Someone: What Not to Do at IIT</+++> may be about life in IIT, but the characters are as interesting as in any other book and are very un-IIT like (That says a lot). According to the author, Chetan Bhagat, this book is not about how to get into IIT or what to do once you are in, but what not to do there. The autobiographical account lends itself to fine character development. The book is fast paced and has very funny conversational style plus lingo typical to those who come from the institution. A little eccentric (little may be the understatement of the year), IITians may be, but they are considered to be one of the most elite groups in the world. Wouldn\u2019t say that about the three guys in Five Point Someone who manage to scrape through IIT, not without a few hair-raising incidents here and there. I would definitely give this book more than a five point something on a ten-point scale. I came across \"five point someone\" , four years back. I started reading it but had some emergency issues in life to address and so could not complete it.Another reason was it reminded me of my college days and how bad i was in my grades!!!!! Next time I heard about this best selling book was when movie '3 IDIOTS' was released. The author of the book , chetan bhagat accused producers of movie of not giving him due credit , while producers maintained that their movie was loosely inspired and they had given chetan , credit for the movie. Never the less \"3 IDIOTS\" went on to become the all time block buster in bollywood and did business with 2-3 superhits combined , end up doing. Yesterday I went to home early and was re arranging my library when I found this book. I started reading it and it was a journey in itself for me. I could relate with characters who were back benchers , their hostel life , peer pressure , professors and of course the narrator's girlfriend!!!!!!! \"Five Point Someone\" is fun ride . The novel which takes important issues with funny take and has fascinating plot. \"Five Point Someone\" is story of three friends and their journey of 4 years in IIT . The IIT (Indian Institute Of Technology) are most prestigious institutes for engineering. The novel has been written from point of view of narrator called hari. Hari is out of shape , short and confused guy who makes into IIT. He is fascinated by his friend Ryan who is carefree , confident , smart with athlete structure. Ryan is leader of his group of three. He is creative with full of new ideas , has ranked 91st in entrance test and loves engineering but hates the system. The system which does not encourage original ideas , believes in making engineering who have mugged up theoretical aspects and rates students not of basis of how they think but how much grades they get. This group of three include ALOK. ALOK is poor , has paralytic dad , elder sister who has reached age to get married and mother who is only bread winner in the house. Novel begins with ragging episode where athletic ryan comes to rescue of hari and alok . This event makes them friends with Ryan ,mostly taking decisions for the group. They end up messing up with their grades in first semester . They manage 'five point something' is their exams. Eventually group splits with alok joining \"nine point someone grader\" , before they unite again after one year to regroup. Hari on other hand comes across a girl(neha) who is daughter of head of department. He eventually falls in love with her. The HOD who treats five graders as useless people has his own daughter fall for five grader hari!!!!!! The trios journey continue in the college , with their poor grades , their ideas to beat the system , their enjoyment which includes from vodka to smoking grass. Time flies and it is one semester away from campus.Poor grades might not land them to job . For Alok job is as important as oxygen and hari loves his girl . To make sure he is introduced by neha to her dad , he needs A in his subject. Would hari manage to get A grade? Would he manage to get his girl as well as job?. Would alok be able to come out of his miseries which have lasted since years?. What is it about Ryan?. Would Ryan be able to implements his innovative scientific ideas? Well for that you would need to read \"FIVE POINT SOMEONE\". It is a novel which would make you laugh your soul out. For those who have stayed in hostel , this novel would make you take ride back to your memory lane. The most important thing of this novel is that it addresses serious issues like system , peer pressure but with funny touch. Full credit to chetan bhagat for it. This \"Five Point Someone\" graders gets 10 plus on grading of ten. His first novel in must read novel and one of best novels one would come across. ...more At the pressure-cooker of IIT (Indian Institutes of Technology)in Delhi, grades are everything--they literally determine your future. The closer your grade point average is to a full 10 points, the more \"success\" you will find in life. Or so goes the common wisdom. Hari, Ryan and Alok meet on their first day at IIT and instantly bond; but they find, to their horror, that after topping all their high school curricula and mugging (grinding) as much as is palatable, at IIT they can manage no better At the pressure-cooker of IIT (Indian Institutes of Technology)in Delhi, grades are everything--they literally determine your future. The closer your grade point average is to a full 10 points, the more \"success\" you will find in life. Or so goes the common wisdom. Hari, Ryan and Alok meet on their first day at IIT and instantly bond; but they find, to their horror, that after topping all their high school curricula and mugging (grinding) as much as is palatable, at IIT they can manage no better than a five-point-something. So they decide to roll with it, and proceed to have as good a time as possible in their college years without flunking out. Things go from bad to worse as they cut classes, drink on the roof, pick up a girlfriend (Hari), ignore their homework in favor of a personal research project (Ryan) and prioritize their family's happiness (Alok), and have repeated run-ins with their department head. Will they pull things out in the end? or will their eagerness to have a good time ruin their lives? Chetan Bhagat is not a terrible English writer, but he certainly isn't literary. He is hugely popular in India, and I mean HUGELY. His style is breezy and colloquial with a slang-y Indo-English flair that often gets slammed in his country for being ungrammatical, but I can excuse it because he's trying for fun rather than education. And the novel helped me learn more about IIT's place in India's consciousness and further appreciate the Indian cultural fondness for stories about three male BFFs. However, I found it lacked that certain out-of-control-ness that makes light reading truly fun (Carl Hiaasen and Janet Evanovich, I'm looking at you), and at times the wackiness he strived for seemed forced. And several entire segments of the boys' lives were skipped over--whether as a literary device or because he didn't feel like making up more story, we'll never know. Five Point Someone was the inspiration for the monstrously successful Bollywood movie 3 Idiots , which I really enjoyed, so I was a bit apprehensive about the book ruining my high opinion of the film. No worries. Although a full comparison is beyond this review (it will appear on the blog http://www.filmigoris.net in a couple of weeks), suffice it to say that you can safely read the book without spoiling the movie, and vice versa. ...more Chetan Bhagat is a hero for millions of India's middle class youth. He writes accessible (simplistic) stories which cleverly reflect the concerns of a generation on the cutting edge of India's rapid urban development. The pricing strategy that he deployed (95 rupees, about \u00a31.20, was significantly cheaper then the market at the time) was a factor in the mass adoption and viral distribution of the book; it also reflected his former career as a banker. Five Point Someone deals with the challenges Chetan Bhagat is a hero for millions of India's middle class youth. He writes accessible (simplistic) stories which cleverly reflect the concerns of a generation on the cutting edge of India's rapid urban development. The pricing strategy that he deployed (95 rupees, about \u00a31.20, was significantly cheaper then the market at the time) was a factor in the mass adoption and viral distribution of the book; it also reflected his former career as a banker. Five Point Someone deals with the challenges of life at an IIT (Indian Institute of Technology) where grades are relative and pressure to perform is unrelenting. There are three boys as main characters and love interest with the professor's daughter. It's attraction for the millions who have read it lies in the way Bhagat uses these characters to reflect the challenging conflicts that face Indian youth today as they try and navigate their way into a highly competitive workforce. The writing is really pretty dreadful - some scenes are over-written, others are skimmed over at such speed that the reader is left without any knowledge of the feelings and emotions of the main characters: when Neha tells Hari about her brother's suicide she is laughing again within a paragraph or two. Hey ho. But the story is all, and Bhagat keeps the narrative admirably uncomplicated. Still, Five Point Someone is worth reading as an insight into the concerns of Indian youth; and it is impossible to deny that Bhagat has an ability to keep one reading through clever storytelling devices which pull you through to the final - unsatisfying - ending. ...more Good to re-read book again. This was my first Indian Book after reading Sidney Sheldons thriller books. I heard a lot about it from my friends & was skeptical to buy it because before this I read one indian as I can't remember (& better not to be) which diverted my mind not to buy any indian book because they don't know how to write & make a user hooked up. But I must say I was pretty much impress with this book. Although, I don't know anything about IIT, not even meet anyone in real life but as chetan taken me This was my first Indian Book after reading Sidney Sheldons thriller books. I heard a lot about it from my friends & was skeptical to buy it because before this I read one indian as I can't remember (& better not to be) which diverted my mind not to buy any indian book because they don't know how to write & make a user hooked up. But I must say I was pretty much impress with this book. Although, I don't know anything about IIT, not even meet anyone in real life but as chetan taken me through the world of IIT with this book, I feel very close that I too was one of them. I don't why but after flipping through pages I was feeling that Am I reading or watching a bollywood movie? The more I gone deeper, the more I was feeling yes it is a boollywood movie script in a form of book. Whatever, but I feel yes chetan tried to make us hooked up & yes I was. I was desperately waiting for his another books. Read it only if you are very much into bollywood movie or want to know what is IIT & how it works? ...more While reading this book, I learnt one lesson. NEVER EVER watch the movie before reading the book. The movie messed up the book for me. Actually, I did not like the book itself much. I felt the friendship between the three guys a bit girlish. Girls usually talk behind the backs (Hard truth! I don't think I have :P). The only difference is these three guys did not say it outside. They kept it inside while girls usually talk to others about it. I felt so many parts a bit stupid. Maybe because of th While reading this book, I learnt one lesson. NEVER EVER watch the movie before reading the book. The movie messed up the book for me. Actually, I did not like the book itself much. I felt the friendship between the three guys a bit girlish. Girls usually talk behind the backs (Hard truth! I don't think I have :P). The only difference is these three guys did not say it outside. They kept it inside while girls usually talk to others about it. I felt so many parts a bit stupid. Maybe because of the movie. Movie and the book had a lot of differences! But even though, I enjoyed this book. It relates to everyone in schools or colleges. Really enjoyable at times but not at all satisfying. Another thing, I was happy about is that I could complete this book within 1 day itself. It's been years since I read something and finished it within 1 or 2 days. I am really happy!! :) All in all, a good book with enjoyable parts but not so satisfying story and characters. I wish I had not seen the movie!!! ...more Okay first of all I would like to say this book is way different than the movie and I am kind of grateful for this as I didn't have to get bored. So anyways instead of just reviewing the book I want to compare it with the movie, the movie was good, it really was but somehow I could connect more with the book. The story was more realistic and less overwhelming. For starters the Ryan guy (Amir Khan's character in the book) is super smart but had the lowest GPA. And he seemed a little immature and Okay first of all I would like to say this book is way different than the movie and I am kind of grateful for this as I didn't have to get bored. So anyways instead of just reviewing the book I want to compare it with the movie, the movie was good, it really was but somehow I could connect more with the book. The story was more realistic and less overwhelming. For starters the Ryan guy (Amir Khan's character in the book) is super smart but had the lowest GPA. And he seemed a little immature and like a jerk and the other guy had a female opposite not Ryan. Which seemed fair haha ! The ending was also more realistic . But now about the book, it was written in first person but the interesting part is it had this other people's voices, which was fun to read . The whole book was overall very funny, it had sad and emotional parts but they were not melodramatic and to be honest I was more entertained than being emotional while reading the sad parts. I really liked reading it and I think others should too . ...more I purchased this book a while back from a book vendor whose little shop by the streets is a part of an open circulatory library sort of thing in my city. What happens in this circuit is that you buy a book for a negotiable price and return it later at any date and time and get half the price back for it. I normally buy these books and retain them with me because they are some pretty awesome buys for the price I pay for them. So, I was pretty excited to read this book - it was touted to be the aut I purchased this book a while back from a book vendor whose little shop by the streets is a part of an open circulatory library sort of thing in my city. What happens in this circuit is that you buy a book for a negotiable price and return it later at any date and time and get half the price back for it. I normally buy these books and retain them with me because they are some pretty awesome buys for the price I pay for them. So, I was pretty excited to read this book - it was touted to be the author's best and about IIT and my dad's from IIT so I thought that I'd get to peek into what his life would've been like. This wasn't my first Chetan Bhagat novel, so I did not have great expectation on the language front. What just happened was this though: Five Point Someone , dismally, had no language, no story and no characterisation whatsoever. Dear Mr. Bhagat, if you feel that you could sell prints by banking on the IIT brand name, then this novel proves you to be vehemently wrong and delusional. Not only were the characters chummy, stupid and repetitive, but they also were unbelievable to be IIT material. Seriously, who in IIT would realistically think of/do: a. Jogging in the morning (hell, these guys even did pilates!) b. Sneaking out to have ice-cream c. Be overtly emotional for no darn reason - even write letters more horribly than I did in fifth grade! d. Whining 24 x 7 x 365 If I compare these guys to my father, then I either feel like something's wrong with my dad or that the author's got the IIT mentality wrong at the roots (I mean, aren't they supposed to be like these demigods of intelligence?). And the girl, Neha - I can't fathom her being in the story - is it just to pair the lead with a female and abide by the dinosaur stereotype that 'IIT guys FINALLY got a girl! :O' ? C'mon, the supporting cast had no girlfriends, you could have spared us ONE whole character, Mr. Bhagat! All right, that said, I felt that Operation Pendulum's final night was cut straight out of a Bollywood movie - so many dramatic coincidences altogether (NOT giving away spoilers, so breathe)? In IIT? This is beyond preposterous and, to be fair on the IIT guys, a little insulting. All in all, the book was by far the worst read I've picked in centuries and don't think that I'll dare to pick up another Chetan Bhagat novel in my life. I even RETURNED this book to the vendor and got half my money back because I didn't want it on my 'awesome' book shelf. Sorry, but I feel that one star is way too grand for what I endured through the read (Goodreads doesn't let me mark 0.1, oh well). P.S. That said, Chetan Bhagat is a lot better than many of his contemporaries, I'd give him that. At least his book titles don't resemble \"She Broke Up, I Didn't!: I Just Kissed Someone Else!\" or \"Ohh Yes, I Am Single!: And So is My Girlfriend!\" . ...more Well another book and that too the first one which got so many mistakes and what happened to error proofing or something i mean since when you have the dollar in Europe and i really get confused about the timing in this book...third year starts and suddenly indem class goes on and the \"pendulum\" operation and boom one sem suspension and next thing u know that they are in last sem!! If they start 3rd year and finish a sem and got suspend in another you should be in the beginning of fourth year fi Well another book and that too the first one which got so many mistakes and what happened to error proofing or something i mean since when you have the dollar in Europe and i really get confused about the timing in this book...third year starts and suddenly indem class goes on and the \"pendulum\" operation and boom one sem suspension and next thing u know that they are in last sem!! If they start 3rd year and finish a sem and got suspend in another you should be in the beginning of fourth year first sem, not last. Any way may be i am confused and not to mention too much spelling mistakes, May be typo error. I can see that how the author has improved, i was first introduced to his first book via a road side vendor and well at that time i dint had the money and by the time i got the book was sold, and moreover that bloody vendor told it was about how to pass exams and get in to good career kind a book which was a lie. I got to know when i finally b ought the books years ago and well i dint care because i never trust anyone else review apart from my own :P. so coming back to C.B, the first book i read by him was 2 states and well i was quite attracted by his story telling and adding to it the book was a semi autobiography, well he has a good instincts and knows how to attract young people \"SEX\" almost all his book i read till now apart from non-fiction \"WHAT YOUNG INDIA WANTS\" almost all involve \"SEX\", i mean come on in India it is very bad to even to talk about sex and let alone write it?. but i would like to inform you that \"SEX\" was all over the place, be it in temples, say literature even in the religions (Onions make you arouse sexual feelings).when we came towards literature many of the old and new and mid aged books by various authors consist sex theme but in a more understandable and hidden way only we adult young can understand. But in English? i believe only R.K.N had bought it up in his English novel 'The Guide' but again in a more not so sexy way. But here you go with modern English writing and its influence over us the book with a little spice becomes very much hit and so the same happens with all his books. Not that i am telling it that only the \"SEX\" in his books matter, but to consider it adds to the praise. I dint see it quite interesting, but apart from movie which is a 100% pure gold fiction the book makes more sense. but its little absurd to not let you confuse over some matters, say the nine stories fall from the insti building and survive, about how one gets in to have sex with prof. daughter in his very own house just few meters from his office (not to mention he is your HOD). Ufff i am really getting tired by writing all this. Any way it was a wonderful experience and well had a good laugh most of the way but in the end i can say it is a nice story but as mentioned in his second book it\u2019s kind of Okay stuff...not bad for an amateur try. ...more The only Chetan Bhagat book I liked. Maybe because he didn't use his imagination much and presented this semi autobiographical account of his days in the IIT. Alok, Hari and Ryan are all characterised nicely, and unlike other Bhagat novels, here you can actually distinguish between the three characters. The two chapters called Alok speaks and Ryan speaks also show the differences between them. So, that's a plus for this book. I felt the book had a better story than the movie 3 Idiots. It was much The only Chetan Bhagat book I liked. Maybe because he didn't use his imagination much and presented this semi autobiographical account of his days in the IIT. Alok, Hari and Ryan are all characterised nicely, and unlike other Bhagat novels, here you can actually distinguish between the three characters. The two chapters called Alok speaks and Ryan speaks also show the differences between them. So, that's a plus for this book. I felt the book had a better story than the movie 3 Idiots. It was much more real and believable. The writing is just about okay, no major complaints, but nothing that impressive either. It's the story that works. Professor Cherian and the fate of his son reflects a common scenario in many households of India where the parents are quick to decide a future career path for their children and their disappointment when their sons and daughters sometimes fail to live up to the monumental expectations parents have from them. The female lead, Neha was also done well, though the romance did seem a bit rushed and the sex scene seemed bit sudden. Still, not much of an issue. Indians connected with this book since most of the situations described here are something all engineering students encounter at some point or other in their college lives. While this book is a decent attempt and makes for good, breezy reading, it did to the Indian literary scene what Twilight did to the vampire genre- spawn off abominations one after the other. Still, I wouldn't NOt recommend this to anyone. It's good for a one time read. Not that memorable but will keep you engrossed and hooked while reading. Recommended for people looking for an easy read without cheesiness/Bollywoodiness. 3 stars. ...more Okay, so here's what I thought..the movie was a lot better than the book but that doetsnt mean I didnt like the book. In fact, Im glad that my friend let me borrow this book. I enjoyed the book so much that I was always eager to turn the page not because I wanted to know what happens next but just because it was simply entertaining and also because since Im an engg. student myself, there was a lot of similar experiences described in the book(Vivas are my enemies as well..sigh.). The 3 stars is f Okay, so here's what I thought..the movie was a lot better than the book but that doetsnt mean I didnt like the book. In fact, Im glad that my friend let me borrow this book. I enjoyed the book so much that I was always eager to turn the page not because I wanted to know what happens next but just because it was simply entertaining and also because since Im an engg. student myself, there was a lot of similar experiences described in the book(Vivas are my enemies as well..sigh.). The 3 stars is for the story and 1 star is because of the witty and funny remarks left here and there. The reason I gave the story only 3 stars is because I watched the movie first and it remains one of my favorite Bollywood movie. The story was the same, the characters were the same and all but at the same time it was a lot different in the movie and presented in a more 'makes-sense' kind of way. I also couldnt digest the fact that we knew next to nothing about Hari, why he couldnt answer his vivas, where does he come from. I mean he was the narrator of the story, and we knew nothing about him except the fact that he wants to be Ryan. Somehow Ryan was not likeable in the story,he seemed I dont know..selfish to me sometimes. I could probably go on like this... PS I liked the book a lot. :) ...more This is an decent book with average writing. I call this book decent because it explained the frustrations of a student in the Indian education system....something no other novel had done then. It made people realize the number of student suicides and drop-outs at even the most premier education institutes of India. It gave voice to students in India who are asked to make it work in the most asinine, outdated and rigid education system(while sometimes calling it the 'best'). I believe that is so This is an decent book with average writing. I call this book decent because it explained the frustrations of a student in the Indian education system....something no other novel had done then. It made people realize the number of student suicides and drop-outs at even the most premier education institutes of India. It gave voice to students in India who are asked to make it work in the most asinine, outdated and rigid education system(while sometimes calling it the 'best'). I believe that is something good that happened from this book. And that is the only reason I call this book decent. That being said, the writing is amateurish. The story and characters can be engaging. However, after a couple of days of reading this book I realized that the characters and the content is sexist. And don't get me started on this book being called the voice of \"indian youth\". It is not the voice of the indian youth. It is \"Bollywood on Paper\" as some other reviews might have said. ...more This books works nine out of ten times, and that to me is an achievement in itself. Also, reading it made me realise why Raju Hirani was instantly drawn to the story (He's making a film on similar lines) It has so many characteristics of the Munnabhai series. It's light-hearted, witty and never attempts to take itself too seriously. Yet there's a grim undertone that permeates throughout the novel, offering a heart-breaking account of three students at Indian's prestigious IIT. Also, this book mov This books works nine out of ten times, and that to me is an achievement in itself. Also, reading it made me realise why Raju Hirani was instantly drawn to the story (He's making a film on similar lines) It has so many characteristics of the Munnabhai series. It's light-hearted, witty and never attempts to take itself too seriously. Yet there's a grim undertone that permeates throughout the novel, offering a heart-breaking account of three students at Indian's prestigious IIT. Also, this book moves with a certain whip-lash speed---one interesting incident after another narrated in an easy, unassuming, homourous manner--- which means you'll see yourself finishing this is less than a couple of hours :-) ...more Actual Rating: 2.5 to 3 stars (maybe, 2.75) First CB novel I read and to be honest I liked it. I'm going to just skip the part about Bhagat's horrible writing but the way story unfolds at various stages made it a bit more likeable. the best read in Chetan's book store! Kin review", "Title": "Five Point Someone: What Not to Do at IIT"},
