{"Comments": "James Cameron and <---A>John Scalzi</---A> Share An Awkward Elevator Ride James Cameron: Could you hit the button for the top floor, please? John Scalzi: Sure. Say, aren\u2019t you James Cameron? JC: That\u2019s right. My friends call me King of the World! Ha Ha! Just kidding.<---F> JS: Right</---F>. JC: You look kind of familiar. Have we met? JS: Met? No. Maybe you recognize me from my author\u2019s photo on my books. I\u2019m John Scalzi. Long pause JC: Uh\u2026\u2026No, sorry. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve read your books. JS: Really? You haven\u2019t read Old Man\u2019s War James Cameron and John Scalzi Share An Awkward Elevator Ride James Cameron: Could you hit the button for the top floor, please? John Scalzi: Sure. Say, aren\u2019t you James Cameron? JC: That\u2019s right. My friends call me King of the World! Ha Ha! Just kidding. JS: Right. JC: You look kind of familiar. Have we met? JS: Met? No. Maybe you recognize me from my author\u2019s photo on my books. I\u2019m John Scalzi. Long pause JC: Uh\u2026\u2026No, sorry. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve read your books. JS: Really? You haven\u2019t read Old Man\u2019s War or <+++>The Ghost Brigades</+++> ? JC: Uh\u2026\u2026Nope. JS: You should check them out. I think you\u2019d like them. The story revolves around soldiers having their consciousnesses downloaded into genetically enhanced bodies so they can fight wars on distant planets. I use that to bring up questions about the ethics of colonization. JC: Uh\u2026. Well, that does sound pretty good. I\u2019ll check them out sometime. JS: Now that I think about it, that sounds kind of similar to your movie Avatar . JC: Huh.. Yeah, I guess there\u2019s a few minor similarities there. JS: Of course, my genetically enhanced bodies are green and yours were blue so I guess that makes all the difference, right? JC: Uh\u2026\u2026 JS: You\u2019re sure you never read them? They came out a few years before you filmed Avatar . Probably about the time you were brainstorming ideas for the movie. Maybe even writing the script? JC: OK, look. I guess it\u2019s possible that I did read your books. Maybe\u2026.just maybe\u2026 I did and adapted a few of your ideas. You know how it is. Everything you\u2019ve read or seen before gets mashed up in your head and you start combining that stuff with your own story ideas. Sometimes you may end up using a tiny aspect of someone else\u2019s story. Hell, Tarantino has made a whole career out of that. JS: Oh, so now you think you did read my books? JC: It\u2019s possible. But even if I.. uh\u2026 borrowed an idea or two from you. And I\u2019m not saying I did! But if I accidentally incorporated some stuff of yours into Avatar , I\u2019m sure you see all the differences in it. Like your book didn\u2019t have flying mountains,<---M> right? And it wasn\u2019t in hi-def 3D</---M>, was it? JS: No, my book was not in written in hi-def 3D. JC: There you go. Besides, other than whole idea of downloading people into genetically enhanced bodies, my overall story was about a man realizing that his own kind were corrupt and that he should join the other side to find peace and happiness. You didn\u2019t have anything like that. JS: True. I think you got that from Dances With Wolves . JC: That\u2019s right\u2026Hey! JS: Forget it. I\u2019m not going to sue you or punch you. I just couldn\u2019t help but wonder if maybe you hadn\u2019t read my books and influenced your movie. JC: Obviously, for legal purposes, I can\u2019t admit anything. Long pause. JC: This is the longest elevator ride off my life. JS: Oh, I never hit the button for your floor. I\u2019ve just been leaning against the Door Closed button. JC. Oh. Long pause. JC: Can I go now, please? JS: Can I have a job writing your next movie? JC: Yes. JS: Pleasure doing business with you, King of the World. ...more overall this is a fun, fast-paced, and competently written novel. after finishing this book, I immediately wanted to read more - a good sign! and it is a thoughtful novel - I really liked how it carefully and quietly lays down small but important plot points that are clearly going to be even more important as this space opera continues. in general, I like Scalzi's minor note approach to his world and it is well-matched with prose that is clear and straightforward yet sympathetic and often resona overall this is a fun, fast-paced, and competently written novel. after finishing this book, I immediately wanted to read more - a good sign! and it is a thoughtful novel - I really liked how it carefully and quietly lays down small but important plot points that are clearly going to be even more important as this space opera continues. in general, I like Scalzi's minor note approach to his world and it is well-matched with prose that is clear and straightforward yet sympathetic and often resonant. the central protagonist was quite well-done. I really liked his childlike outlook. perfectly accomplished characterization. but why so shy about actually describing aliens' physical appearances? I wonder if it is even shyness and more about wanting that identification and empathy that was so successfully accomplished in that tricky-clever first chapter. still, it is more than a little frustrating. spoilers follow I think the problem I ranted about below is, well, a genuine problem. and a big one. still, I will give Scalzi credit: that crushing scene is certainly a point being made, one that is highly important to characterization and the overall commentary on questioning authority. and in some ways it sets up an intriguing parallel narrative to the villain's story. it is not just a random atrocity and that becomes crystal clear. but if you are going to use such an atrocity to prove a point, be a better writer first because it still came across as distinctly unnecessary and even a little cheap in its brutality. so overall: I had my issues, but this is a good book. I liked it and will read more of this absorbing series. ____________ YE OLDE PLACEHOLDER REVIEW/EXTENDED RANT WHAT THE FUCK, SCALZI? seriously, I can't handle this shit. maybe I'm weak. but a scene halfway through the book where our sympathetic, likeable heroes kidnap and then brutally sterilize a terrified, crying baby, get a video connection to her horrified, crying mother, and then blackmail that mother into allowing the brutal execution of her child - which they then proceed to do. seriously? Jared unsheathed his combat knife and approached the thing that Sarah Pauling had died for. She was strapped to a gurney and she wriggled and cried for her mother, and she would die alone and frightened, and far away from anyone that ever loved her. for real? and that's only a small excerpt of this scene. is it supposed to be less repulsive because they are aliens? I think I might have been able to handle this in other circumstances, if it came in another sort of story - although honestly it hits me right in my perhaps one tender spot, the one that can't deal with graphic depictions of child abuse. maybe if it came in a book about American misadventures in Vietnam. or The Black Company in space. or The Silver Devil Part 2. or a post-apocalyptic cannibal comic written by Garth Ennis. I could perhaps have handled it then. but this scene is in the middle of a light, fast-paced, exceedingly fun, Heinlein-esque adventure novel. it was like reading a cute story of two teenagers in love and then all of a sudden the boy and some of his friends find some girl and rape her to death. this repulsive scene took me entirely out of the novel and my only reactions are anger and disgust. am I ever supposed to be sympathetic to these characters again? that's impossible. I want them all to die. not that I don't think there's intentionality behind it all. the opening chapter - where the reader is placed within a very sympathetic perspective but does not realize until the end of the chapter that this perspective is that of a villainous, genocidal alien - is a perfectly executed sleight of hand that accomplishes its goals of creating empathy and the understanding that other things can have 'consciousness' just like humans. the author is no dummy and I appreciate his goals. but <+++>The Ghost Brigades</+++> is written and functions as a certain kind of light entertainment, albeit one with some thoughtful, carefully considered moral/ethical questions. that scene does not belong. if I go on a date with someone, I'm happy to be surprised but I don't think being punched in the balls is an appropriate surprise. if someone did that to me on a date, someone's going to get hit back. if Scalzi were in front of me, reading this book to me, someone would be hit back. still, I admire the author and I should probably continue reading. but I need some time to forget my nausea and fury. ...more Warning: Spoilers for Old Man's War, book one in the Old Man's War sequence. A secret is discovered and war is looming. Former enemies are allied against the Colonial Union and it's up to the Special Forces, the Ghost Brigades, to stop them. They only take the dirtiest jobs and this is no exception. The Ghost Brigades deals almost exclusively with the Special Forces who have been nicknamed the Ghost Brigades on account of their entire Forces using the bodies of people who did not enter the militar Warning: Spoilers for Old Man's War, book one in the Old Man's War sequence. A secret is discovered and war is looming. Former enemies are allied against the Colonial Union and it's up to the Special Forces, the Ghost Brigades, to stop them. They only take the dirtiest jobs and this is no exception. The Ghost Brigades deals almost exclusively with the Special Forces who have been nicknamed the Ghost Brigades on account of their entire Forces using the bodies of people who did not enter the military, but for whom a clone body was created, for new consciences. Two things stand out right away. One, there's no first-person narrative here and two, John Perry (<---B>our protagonist from OMW</---B>) is nowhere in sight. In fact, he's mentioned in passing about once or twice, but that's it. Other than that, The Ghost Brigades is a typical Scalzi effort - a fast pace, some witty (and non-witty) banter, and cool concepts that keep the pages turning. The Ghost Brigades is definitely a step down from Old Man's War. OMW really hit the spot when I read it a number of years ago, the surprise at what these elderly folks were getting themselves into when they signed up for the military at the end of their lives was a great one and the action was non-stop for the rest of the book. Here, things felt a little more forced, even though I had a good time reading from start to finish. I enjoyed it, but there were a few things that niggled where that didn't happen before. (view spoiler) [For instance when they have the \"great\" idea to go up in the tree to win the mock battle in training and then use the \"go up in a tree\" memory to solve a problem later in the book. Big eye roll. (hide spoiler) ] I'll admit it's been a few years (and a few kids) so it could also very much be me. Some of the banter, as I mentioned above, was also a bit awkward this time instead of remotely funny. There's a part toward the end where they \"don't\" talk about secretive matters that just made my eyes roll. Too many eye rolls in a book make the stars start shedding. Although it sounds bad, I really did enjoy The Ghost Brigades and I'm looking forward to The Last Colony. It's fun and exciting and hard to put down even, there were just some parts that put this below OMW even though the rest of the book was on par. 3.5 out of 5 Stars (Recommended!) ------------------- I wrote this before reading the book because I thought the quote on the back of the book was too good not to make fun of... I was going through my books, as I'm want to do every now and then (alas, I'm just a kid with his toys), and I came across my copy of The Ghost Brigades, the sequel to Old Man's War by John Scalzi. Sadly, I still have yet to read it, but I couldn't help but laugh at this quote on the back of the book... Says the Dallas Morning News: \"If Stephen King were to try his hand at science fiction, he'd be lucky to be half as entertaining as John Scalzi.\" Wow, where to begin? First off, \"If\" Stephen King wrote science fiction? I'm pretty sure I could make a compelling argument that ALL he writes is some type of science fiction, but at least we can agree on The Running Man, The Long Walk, The Dark Tower, THE STAND, even The Tommyknockers and I haven't even touched his short stories. I'm sure plenty have a much stricter definition of science fiction than I do, but even so, something of King's would probably fit. Wikipedia, bastion of wisdom that it is, literally says, \"Stephen Edwin King (born September 21, 1947) is an American author of contemporary horror, suspense, science fiction!, and fantasy.\" (emphasis and exclamation mark added) Sadly, if you know anything at all about science fiction, you immediately discern that the Dallas Morning News knows nothing about it. Whoever wrote it went, \"well, I know Stephen King writes lots of stuff...\" ...and that's about the extent to which this person thought through this comparison. I'm not quite sure what they're going for either, but I think it's that Scalzi is a pretty hilarious writer and entertaining in a comical way, which Stephen King does not attempt to be at least as far as I've experienced...so that doesn't quite fit either. They're like night and day comparisons here. I'm also sure that whoever included the quote on the back of the book thought, \"well the quote does positively compare the author to Stephen King, so that obligates us to put it on the book.\" This reminds me I need to read more Scalzi, but probably not for any possible connection to Stephen King. :) ...more \u201cThey can run all the tests they want; nothing will show anything but evidence of a natural catastrophe. Because that's what it was. It just had a little help.\" I don\u2019t know whether it was because I was more focused this time, but I believe I enjoyed Ghost Brigades a bit more than Old Man's War . Scalzi is extremely popular, and rightly so. His military Science Fiction stories are tautly plotted and fairly lean, which means you can read them quickly. Yet, they also deal with interesting concepts a \u201cThey can run all the tests they want; nothing will show anything but evidence of a natural catastrophe. Because that's what it was. It just had a little help.\" I don\u2019t know whether it was because I was more focused this time, but I believe I enjoyed Ghost Brigades a bit more than Old Man's War . Scalzi is extremely popular, and rightly so. His military Science Fiction stories are tautly plotted and fairly lean, which means you can read them quickly. Yet, they also deal with interesting concepts and there is some good solid science involved. Scalzi also introduces some welcome humour into his novels. I couldn\u2019t help but crack the odd smile. That said, this is Military Sci-Fi so things can get pretty serious too\u2026 Limbs in various states of processing lay stacked on tables. On a separate table lay a collection of heads, skulls sawed open to extract the brains. Discarded heads rested in another barrel next to the table. I don\u2019t want to go into plot details too much, other than to say that the ghost brigades of the title are the Special Forces of the Colonial Defence Force (as depicted in Old Man\u2019s War ). As opposed to the regular military, these soldiers take the war behind enemy lines. Expect lots of secrecy and ops so black your fingers will come off the page dirty. Fun to read. Also contains an interesting argument about the collective personality, or consciousness, of a culture (species) as opposed to the individual. Last but not least: some great action sequences. ::I wasn't really thinking about it,:: [he] said. ::I just didn't want to die.:: ::Funny how that will make a person creative,:: Recommended - for readers who want to complete their Military Sci-Fi collection. Also: Old Man's War ...more In order to catch a traitorous military scientist, Charles Boutin, the Colonial Defense Forces transfer a recording of his consciousness into a new body. Thus, Jared Dirac is born. The transfer apparently didn't take and Dirac joins the CDF's special forces, the Ghost Brigades. When Boutin's personality begins surfacing, Jared's life takes a turn for the worse. Can Jared stop Boutin before the CDF goes to war against three alien armies? This wasn't exactly what I was expecting from a sequel to O In order to catch a traitorous military scientist, Charles Boutin, the Colonial Defense Forces transfer a recording of his consciousness into a new body. Thus, Jared Dirac is born. The transfer apparently didn't take and Dirac joins the CDF's special forces, the Ghost Brigades. When Boutin's personality begins surfacing, Jared's life takes a turn for the worse. Can Jared stop Boutin before the CDF goes to war against three alien armies? This wasn't exactly what I was expecting from a sequel to Old Man's War but it was a damn good read. Like the first book, it was funny in places. Not only that, Ghost Brigades raises interesting philosophical questions like what it means to have a soul, nature vs. nurture, and what it means to be human. Unlike the first book, there was a lot of action. I found Jared's innocence to be charming in the first half of the book, surprising since he was trained almost from birth to be a soldier. Sagan grew from her first appearance in Old Man's War. I even kind of understood Boutin's point of view, even though I didn't agree with it. The writing was as good as it was in Old Man's War, just from a third person point of view instead of the first person. It had a more serious tone but still had its funny moments. I thought the plot was better in this one than in Old Man's War. I wasn't sure The Scalz could come up with a plausible threat for the Ghost Brigades but he more than did just that. While I didn't like it quite as much as Old Man's War, I'm pretty well convinced The Scalz can do no wrong. ...more Things I like about John Scalzi\u2019s 2006 novel The Ghost Brigades. 1. It is the second book in the Old Man's War series, but not really a sequel, more of an expansion from the universe created by Old Man\u2019s War. In this respect, Old Man\u2019s War was more like a prequel, just crafting a setting for what comes later. 2. Green super humans. 3. Scalzi has demonstrated an adept ability to tell a serious story and have fun with it while still not taking himself too seriously, yet at the same time not devolving Things I like about John Scalzi\u2019s 2006 novel The Ghost Brigades. 1.\tIt is the second book in the Old Man's War series, but not really a sequel, more of an expansion from the universe created by Old Man\u2019s War. In this respect, Old Man\u2019s War was more like a prequel, just crafting a setting for what comes later. 2.\tGreen super humans. 3.\tScalzi has demonstrated an adept ability to tell a serious story and have fun with it while still not taking himself too seriously, yet at the same time not devolving into absurdity or farcical space opera. The Ghost Brigades reveals this talent perhaps better than any other of his books. 4.\tThe Special Forces naming protocol is a random first name and then a last name of a scientist. Supposedly random, but is it? 5.\tThis is a cool science fiction novel that has elements of murder mystery and James Bond. 6.\tThere is a mad scientist who turns traitor and likes to monologue his plans to our hero. 7.\tBrainpals. 8.\tEight, eight I forget what eight was for but 9.\tThe Consu, by far the most advanced alien race and they engage in cultural redistribution on a galactic scale. 10.\tConsciousness transfer, somewhere Poul Anderson is grinning. Things I did not love about John Scalzi\u2019s 2006 novel The Ghost Brigades. 1.\tAnother damn sequel. 2.\tMaybe too much narrative and dialogue and not enough storyline. 3.\tScalzi fails, maybe does not even try to channel Robert A. Heinlein, a pleasing element of Old Man\u2019s War. 4.\tthe ending 5.\treally not much more, Scalzi is on to something pretty cool here and yes, God help me, I will likely read the next one, \u201cI get away and he keeps pulling me back in!\u201d End on a high note: Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!!! ...more Before reading this book, a bunch of people had told me that it wasn't very good, didn't live up to its predecessor, Old Man's War . But while I do agree it's not quite as good as Old Man's War , I liked The Ghost Brigades a great deal more than I was expecting. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews The Ghost Brigades is book two of the Old Man\u2019s War series. In the first volume, seventy-five-year-old John Perry abandons his life on Earth, joins the Colonial Defense Force, and heads off into space to protect mankind\u2019s far flung colonies. Once there, his consciousness is transferred into a young, superhuman body; he learns that space is a very dangerous place for humans; he rediscovers part of someone very important to him in the form of <---C>Jane Sagan</---C>; Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews The Ghost Brigades is book two of the Old Man\u2019s War series. In the first volume, seventy-five-year-old John Perry abandons his life on Earth, joins the Colonial Defense Force, and heads off into space to protect mankind\u2019s far flung colonies. Once there, his consciousness is transferred into a young, superhuman body; he learns that space is a very dangerous place for humans; he rediscovers part of someone very important to him in the form of Jane Sagan; and he becomes an old-fashioned hero before riding off into the sunset. And that is where Brigades picks up the story, except it doesn\u2019t do that, because John Perry doesn\u2019t make an appearance. Instead, Mr. Scalzi takes the story in a whole new direction with a tale about the Special Forces of the CDF: soldiers created from the genetic material of dead people (that is why they are called `Ghosts\u2019, get it?) Without a doubt, the novel begins with a bang, as a team of Ghosts (lead by returning character Jane Sagan) executes a daring raid on an Obin colony world. Once through the defenses, the Special Forces capture a single Rraey scientist, who is later coerced into explaining why he is helping the Eneshan when his people and theirs have been enemies for years. From this alien survivor, the CDF discovers that one of their worst fears is coming true: the Rraey, Eneshan and Obin have formed an alliance to destroy mankind. Not only that but somehow a senior scientist of Military Research, Charles Boutin, is aiding these aliens in their plot \u2013 surprising since he has been dead and buried for years! When Harry Wilson (another returning character) discovers a digitized recording of Boutin\u2019s consciousness, the CDF brass hatches a desperate plan: bring the traitorous scientist back to life in a new body. Thereafter, the normal process to make \u201cGhosts\u201d is used to produce a modified body from Boutin\u2019s DNA and his consciousness is transferred into it. The only problem is that when the new Boutin awakes he has no memories of his former life. With no use for a Boutin in such a condition but deciding he must be watched, Jared Dirac (as the CDF names him) is placed into the Ghost Brigades under the able command of Jane Sagan. Her orders to watch Jared for any sign that his memory is returning and to keep him from turning into another traitor! Through the use of a multi viewpoint narrative, Mr. Scalzi delivers an action-packed sci-fi adventure that has equal doses pulse-pounding combat, interesting history, dramatic mysteries, and complex moral issues like \u201cHow can a race be morally correct in destroying another species to save itself?\u201d The Ghosts and Jared Dirac are naturally the stars of the show, but a reader never forgets that there are galaxy-wide issues that are going on that might jeopardize the continued existence of the human race. If there is anything at all to complain about in The Ghost Brigades , it would be Jane Sagan for me. Where in Old Man\u2019s War , we saw her begin to transition past her Ghost demeanor into something more resembling a normal human, here she is very cold and dispassionate, refusing to give Jared any emotional sympathy or empathy until the very end of the novel. While I understand she does not trust the reborn Boutin, her lack of warmth of any kind annoyed me and made her seem like a completely different character than what I was familiar with. All in all, though, this sequel was a great one: building upon the good things from the first novel and adding many more. Sure, it might have wrapped up the story of Charles Boutin, but Brigades sets the stage for some huge events in the novels to come. So unless you hate military science fiction, this one has to be on your \u201cTo Be Read\u201d List. ...more The Colonial Defense Force is desperate. They've learned that three species are gearing up to fight a war against The Colonial Union. This isn't the most surprising or frightening part. The worst part is there is one human involved, Charles Boutin. Boutin is a genius CDF military scientist who knows all their secrets and who should be dead. The CDF is willing to do whatever it takes to learn why Boutin turned even going to the point of making a clone using something Boutin should've never left b The Colonial Defense Force is desperate. They've learned that three species are gearing up to fight a war against The Colonial Union. This isn't the most surprising or frightening part. The worst part is there is one human involved, Charles Boutin. Boutin is a genius CDF military scientist who knows all their secrets and who should be dead. The CDF is willing to do whatever it takes to learn why Boutin turned even going to the point of making a clone using something Boutin should've never left behind. What can I say about The Ghost Brigades? First and foremost to me the overall story is incredibly generic. Now to be fair my father loves science fiction and I watched tons of those shows with him growing up. I watched all of Star Trek The Next Generation, most of Star Trek Deep Space Nine, a ton of Stargate SG-1, some of Stargate Atlantis, and who knows how many other short lived sci-fi series. The point in saying that is that I've seen basically all the space travel sci-fi storylines that exist today and that makes The Ghost Brigades particularly average for me. The Ghost Brigades brings us back to the Old Man's War universe in the heads of multiple point of view characters of the Special Forces rather than returning to the mind of John Perry. The result is the reader sees and learns all there is to be known about The Ghost Brigade. Unfortunately the human factor and the humor that John Perry brought to Old Man's War is as absent as Perry is in this story. My favorite part of the series so far was Perry as an old man and immediately after he got a new body. Perhaps it's best to admit the space colonization and fighting doesn't really work for me. The Ghost Brigades is a fitting sequel to the second half of Old Man's War. So if John Perry's time as a CDF soldier was an incredibly fun and exciting read for you then you'll undoubtedly enjoy The Ghost Brigades. 2.5 stars out of 5 ...more This is the second volume of John Scalzi\u2019s Old Man\u2019s War series. I enjoyed the first book Old Man's War very much, I even rated it 5 stars on my Goodreads review (adjusted to 4 later). However, I read it in June 2011 and I have just read this second volume three years later. The reason is that since reading that first volume I have read so many books that I like much better and a 5 stars rating seems inaccurate. In all fairness I do not think there is much wrong with Old Man's War apart from som This is the second volume of John Scalzi\u2019s Old Man\u2019s War series. I enjoyed the first book Old Man's War very much, I even rated it 5 stars on my Goodreads review (adjusted to 4 later). However, I read it in June 2011 and I have just read this second volume three years later. The reason is that since reading that first volume I have read so many books that I like much better and a 5 stars rating seems inaccurate. In all fairness I do not think there is much wrong with Old Man's War apart from some of the jokes falling flat for me. Scalzi has a good sense of humour and he even makes a good living out of his more humorous sci-fi but in Old Man's War , and to a lesser extent this book The Ghost Brigades , some of the jokes just sort of short circuit for me. It seems like he tries too hard with the humour sometimes. That reservation aside though, the Old Man's War series has a great concept and is generally well executed. Every successful sf author seems to have a popular series to call their own. So I guess this series is John Scalzi\u2019s Foundation, Revelation Space , or The Night's Dawn Trilogy (I left out Dune and Hyperion as the first volume seems to be more popular as a standalone). In fact, today I just heard that Syfy is developing Old Man's War and The Ghost Brigades into a TV series (to be called \u201c The Ghost Brigades \u201d apparently). Discussing John Scalzi\u2019s books can be a little contentious as he has many admirers as well as detractors. His very high profile and incessant self-promotion can be very off-putting, and also his body of work tend to be highly commercial. For examples Fuzzy Nation and Redshirts are two bestselling books but I have no intention of reading as one is a \u201creboot\u201d of Little Fuzzy and personally I do not want books to be rebooted like movies and TV shows, and the other has a concept which does not appeal to me (Star Trek parody). In all fairness both books are probably very good but I just do not fancy reading them. On the positive side Scalzi\u2019s style is very accessible and Old Man's War is a book you can generally recommend to anyone who want to start reading sci-fi; unless they are looking for literary or profound sci-fi, which are rather rarities in any case. He once described his works as \u201cgateway drug\u201d into sci-fi literature and that seems fair. The Ghost Brigades takes place sometime after the events of Old Man's War , I am not sure how much time has elapsed as this book features almost all new characters, except Jane Sagan. One thing I really like about this book is how Scalzi confounds my expectations by introducing the main protagonist Jared Dirac more than 60 pages into the book, and how his story arc develops in unexpected directions. In this volume Scalzi expands the world building of Old Man's War and delves into the life of the enigmatic Special Forces (nicknamed The Ghost Brigades). These are soldiers who were never naturally born but are bred in artificial bodies and implanted with consciousness and a built-in computer called \u201cBrainPal\u201d (not one of sci-fi\u2019s best neologisms I don\u2019t think). Unfortunately for our hero Jared Dirac he is implanted with a nefarious man\u2019s consciousness pattern instead of a brand new consciousness like his colleagues, with the mission of tracking down this man and putting a stop to his plan to work with hostile aliens to destroy mankind. Scalzi has considerable story telling skills and he seems to make an effort to ensure that the readers understand the scifi elements of his story. His prose style is mainly utilitarian but nice and clean. The characters are not particularly complex but they tend to be sympathetic and likable. The humour is hit and miss for me but they are not really an issue in this book, at least he is not trying to elicit laughter every few paragraphs (the awful Sherlock Holmes joke notwithstanding). On the other hand his depiction of human compassion is really quite effective (the feels!). I find The Ghost Brigades to be better written than Old Man's War but it is a little inferior in that the main concept is no longer new and much of the lengthy Special Forces training section is too similar to the regular soldiers training in the previous book. The sci-fi tech like the Skip Drive is very well explained in pseudo-science terms, and the diversity of sentient alien races is a feast of imagination. TL;DR: I had a good time reading this book and will probably come back to the series before too long. ...more Executive Summary: A fun sci-fi space opera. You won't get deep plot, just a fast-paced military story...IN SPACE! Audio book: This is the second book I've listened to by William Dufris. He's pretty good. He speaks clearly and with good inflections. You can tell the characters apart. He did seem to use the same voices as from Cryptonomicon , so I kept thinking of characters from that book. Overall though, I enjoy him as a narrator. Full Review Somehow I hadn't heard of John Scalzi before last yea Executive Summary: A fun sci-fi space opera. You won't get deep plot, just a fast-paced military story...IN SPACE! Audio book: This is the second book I've listened to by William Dufris. He's pretty good. He speaks clearly and with good inflections. You can tell the characters apart. He did seem to use the same voices as from Cryptonomicon , so I kept thinking of characters from that book. Overall though, I enjoy him as a narrator. Full Review Somehow I hadn't heard of John Scalzi before last year. I remedied that by reading 4 of his books, starting with Old Man's War with my book club. He's not the kind of author to appeal to everyone. From what I've read he mostly writes popcorn fiction. The sort of stuff that would make for a good summer action movie. This book is no different. There isn't some deep plot with twists and turns or a lot of complex characters involved in complex schemes. What you do get is enough plot to keep you interested while the characters go about cracking wise and blowing stuff up. This isn't so much a sequel to Old Man's War as it a stand alone novel that takes place in the same universe after the events of that book. There are references back to it, but almost no character overlap or important plot details to remember. In a way this feels almost like book 1 again because you have the protagonist Jared Dirac going through the training of the Ghost Brigades. That said, there are things you are assumed to know about the universe Mr. Scalzi built in the first book, so it's not like you should skip that book. We learn a lot more about the universe in this book, especially the Ghost Brigades of course. You're also treated to same humor as the rest of his books, which I always enjoy. Overall I enjoyed it and plan to continue on with The Last Colony soon. ...more I believe that science fiction and fantasy are the most effective way of exploring our own morality. When we see people in an alternate world, it is easier for us to step back and look at the choices they make as a parallel to the choices we make. It forces us to really consider the state of our world, and whether or not changes need to be made for the better. Scalzi has written incredibly real and humane characters, in a plot that is very timely to the world we live in. This book will stay with I believe that science fiction and fantasy are the most effective way of exploring our own morality. When we see people in an alternate world, it is easier for us to step back and look at the choices they make as a parallel to the choices we make. It forces us to really consider the state of our world, and whether or not changes need to be made for the better. Scalzi has written incredibly real and humane characters, in a plot that is very timely to the world we live in. This book will stay with me for a long time to come. Great read! ...more What is important about choice? Is it really important how you choose or is it more important that you have the ability to choose in the first place? Just now you chose to read my review out of a million other things you could have done, so thank you for that. But it was your freedom of choice that enabled you to choose my review. Jared Dirac doesn't have that kind of choice. He is a member of the Special Forces, genetically engineered soldiers who's only purpose is to save humanity via black ops What is important about choice? Is it really important how you choose or is it more important that you have the ability to choose in the first place? Just now you chose to read my review out of a million other things you could have done, so thank you for that. But it was your freedom of choice that enabled you to choose my review. Jared Dirac doesn't have that kind of choice. He is a member of the Special Forces, genetically engineered soldiers who's only purpose is to save humanity via black ops work. When they \"awake\", they're bodies are already grown-up. Their minds, taken from the dead, are enhanced by BrainPals, interfaces that unfold and simulate consciousness untill the new-born killing machine can create memories of its own. But Jared is special in another way as well. He carries the mental image of a traitor's brain without knowing it. Will the military's plan work to get to the traitor through him? The Ghost Brigade is a different book from Old Man's War, the first one in this series. At first I had a lot of problems, cause till we get to Jared we swap between secondary characters for a while and I never really connected with any of them and there is a lot of biological technobabel in the beginning that might be interesting, if you are interested in this field, but for me it ended up more in a headache inducing capacity. Sorry folks, not a scientist, more a philosophy/sociology nerd. But when we get to Jared we see more of the typical Scalzi humor, his take on the cruelties of war and all the other things we love about this author. Especially the ending resonated a lot with me and for someone who seldomly gets really emotionally attached to characters I was surprised how touched I was by the developments of the last 15% of the novel. As this ending is worth 5 stars, but the beginning was more of an off-putting 3 star start, I settle for 4 stars in the end, which represents my enjoyment for most of the novel rather well. But in the end, it's not really important if I choose to give it 4 or 5 stars, it's more important that I'm able to make this choice in the first place. Thank you for reminding me of that, Jared. ...more Ghost Brigades starts a new story after the events of Old Man's War . John Perry is not a POV character this time around, but Jane Sagan returns as a major character. Harry Wilson, the genius in spite of not having the math, also plays a smaller role. The BrainPal technology developed by the Colonial Defense Force has so far given the human military an edge in its competition against other alien life forms for colonisable planets. But even superior technology may not be enough to counter a secret Ghost Brigades starts a new story after the events of Old Man's War . John Perry is not a POV character this time around, but Jane Sagan returns as a major character. Harry Wilson, the genius in spite of not having the math, also plays a smaller role. The BrainPal technology developed by the Colonial Defense Force has so far given the human military an edge in its competition against other alien life forms for colonisable planets. But even superior technology may not be enough to counter a secret alliance by three sentient races to put a halt to humanity's expansion in the Universe. Complicating matters, the CDF learns that one of the architects and developers of the BrainPal technology, Charles Boutin, has turned traitor and the Ghost Brigades are called on to track down the rogue human before their own science can be used against them. As we learned in the previous book, the Special Forces are wired different to the average CDF soldier. Instead of having an existing consciousness transfered into a new body, the Ghost Brigades are reconstituted bodies imbued with a totally new programmed consciousness with accelerated learning through the most advanced BrainPals. To find out where Charles Boutin has escaped to, and what his motives are, the CDF and Ghost Brigade generals attempt to create a Special Forces clone of the traitor. The clone, Jared Dirac, becomes a major character in the book. The book suffers a little from being the second in a series where the Universe is not as \"new\" as it was in the first book. The self discovery of a transferred consciousness into a new body is also not as novel as it was. Still, I found the story to be fast paced with battle action pretty much from the get go. The story was engaging in its own right. There are a couple of hooks that ensure I'll be continuing with the next book in the series. They are firstly the Consu, the super advanced race of religious zealots we were introduced to in the first book. They are the star attraction in the OMW universe as far as I'm concerned. The Consu don't play a major role in this book, but they are there in the background in such a way that I just need to learn more about them and what they are up to. Secondly, we learn of an emerging threat to humanity that I expect will be expounded on later in the series, so I'm intrigued as to how that will play out. 4 stars from me My review of Old Man's War http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ...more Weaker than the previous entry, but still fairly readable. Scalzi's work as a film-critic really shows through here, as he relies heavily on sci-fi and military film tropes and cliches to build his story. The perspectives chosen to construct the narrative (third person and close third person) are an unwelcome departure from Old Man's War 's first person, and this results in a slight feeling of disjointedness and a lack of intimacy. Only loosely connected to the previous novel in terms of characte Weaker than the previous entry, but still fairly readable. Scalzi's work as a film-critic really shows through here, as he relies heavily on sci-fi and military film tropes and cliches to build his story. The perspectives chosen to construct the narrative (third person and close third person) are an unwelcome departure from Old Man's War 's first person, and this results in a slight feeling of disjointedness and a lack of intimacy. Only loosely connected to the previous novel in terms of characters or plot, but it takes place in the same setting and in the aftermath of the climactic battle in the preceding novel. Not the best book, but also not a terrible one; I don't think any book I have reviewed has ever deserved 2 stars so precisely as this. I'll be continuing with the series, but with a little less enthusiasm, and a little more warily. EDIT: I will say that one of the best parts of this novel was the decision of Scalzi to analyze what spacefaring humans in the future would feel about the genre of science-fiction as we know it today. Because the universe in this series is a hostile, war-torn place where everything poses a threat to the human race, much of what humanity once valued in science fiction has to be discarded -- especially the narratives involving friendly first-contacts and highly-evolved, utopian alien saviors. That was brilliant. ...more Ako ne\u0161to volim, volim kad je knjiga inteligentno pisana. A scalzi je o\u010dito svladao tu vje\u0161tinu. Jo\u0161 mi je bolja od prve, prepuna je easter eggova, sinteze ideja iz razli\u010ditih klasika SFa, a opet originalna. Puna je iznena\u0111enja, radnja je cijelo vrijeme glatka i logi\u010dna bez trzavica, i kraj je pomalo neo\u010dekivan ali sasvim u skladu s ostatkom. i nije preduga. napokon je netko svatio da knjiga ne mora imati 400 strana. 4.5 zaokru\u017eeno na 5 I really like John Scalzi's writing. It's not too fancy, no particular bells and whistles, but it's not stilted either. It goes down easy. The Ghost Brigades is set in the same context as Old Man's War, and links up to it in various ways, but the main protagonist is a different one with a whole different bundle of issues. I wasn't surprised that Scalzi decided to write more about the Ghost Brigades, and I was half-expecting it not to link up at all -- which would have been disappointing, really. I really like John Scalzi's writing. It's not too fancy, no particular bells and whistles, but it's not stilted either. It goes down easy. The Ghost Brigades is set in the same context as Old Man's War, and links up to it in various ways, but the main protagonist is a different one with a whole different bundle of issues. I wasn't surprised that Scalzi decided to write more about the Ghost Brigades, and I was half-expecting it not to link up at all -- which would have been disappointing, really. I'm glad it did link up. I especially like the ending, even if it is a little too convenient, just because things tie up neatly and leave things in a good place. I'm looking forward to reading The Last Colony, and I hope that it's a similar deal in that, too. Judging from the blurb, which I quickly scanned just now, it is. I was also pleased that there was more done with the transference-of-consciousness thing. It's something I'm seeing a lot of in SF, and it's interesting how differently it's handled. You've got personalities in chips, you've got backed-up bodies with the brain included, etc. I liked the way it was done here, with the new consciousness not 'taking' because of the lack of experiences, and that the whole process resulted in someone subtly different. I wasn't entirely convinced by the protagonist or the antagonist. The protagonist was necessarily not much of a character in himself, and although I did kind of like him, I didn't really root for him. I think that's what made me stall mid-book, although I picked it up again easily enough. And I'm not sure the antagonist's motives were explored clearly enough. If he'd been introduced earlier, somehow... I also saw the thing with the kid coming a mile off. One thing I really, really liked as a random small touch was the characterisation of Harvey, near the end. Most of the soldiers just kind of blended into each other for me and then there's this one insane, trigger-happy guy. It made me grin, reading his section. I think you could read this book as a stand-alone, but I suggest you don't. Start with Old Man's War: it'll help you care more about the world and some of the supporting characters. ...more Perhaps twice a winter, I enjoy making a big pot of chili, suitable for snowy nights and bone chilling cold. I spend much of the morning slicing, dicing and simmering. Although I follow the same general recipe every time, on occasion it just doesn't turn out as savory. I don't know if I boiled instead of simmered, uncovered instead of covered, or failed to sneak in extra secret spice. All the same ingredients and yet it doesn't quite spark. Still decent, mind you--I wouldn't throw it out--but I Perhaps twice a winter, I enjoy making a big pot of chili, suitable for snowy nights and bone chilling cold. I spend much of the morning slicing, dicing and simmering. Although I follow the same general recipe every time, on occasion it just doesn't turn out as savory. I don't know if I boiled instead of simmered, uncovered instead of covered, or failed to sneak in extra secret spice. All the same ingredients and yet it doesn't quite spark. Still decent, mind you--I wouldn't throw it out--but I also wouldn't enter it in any competitions. That pretty much sums up The Ghost Brigades . Like that second pot of chili, The Ghost Brigades just doesn't quite have the right composition. A fascinating and action oriented start tease the reader into adrenalin surge. Unfortunately, long passages of info-dump quickly take over, and not merely in the guise of mission briefing. While the main character has an intriguing set-up as a decanted member of the Ghost Brigade, he fails to develop much of an identity--even other characters describe him as 'passive.' While that may be the point, it doesn't help the reader establish an emotional connection, so it's a relief to have Jane and Harry from Old Man's War drop in. I did struggle with what was supposed to an attempt at a more traditional sci-fi exploration of consciousness and soul. Scalzi's handling seemed awkward and unfinished to me, perhaps because Ghost is more like an action book with a sci-fi setting and theme than an exploration of ethical and philosophical issues. ( The Sparrow handled quite similar threads of inter-species encounters and souls with a much better degree of success). Overall, still a decent read--a filling bowl of soup on a cold night. It'll deserve another attempt. ...more Nije bolje od Old Mana, jer nedostaje mi John Perry, ali i dalje je to odli\u010dno. Heinlenovski do ibera, i zapravo za\u010du\u0111uje koliko Scalzi plagira Heinleina stilski. Ne da je isto, nego je ISTO. E sad, to je i dobro i lo\u0161e; lo\u0161e jer nije stilski orginalno, a dobro jer ne mo\u017ee svatko pisati kao stari Bob a Scalzi to mo\u017ee i to obilato koristi. Radnja je tako\u0111er svje\u017ea, rat traje izme\u0111u ljudi, Eneshana, Obina i Rraeya. Sklapa se \u010dudan savez, ali i polit\u010dka previranja s vi\u0161e strana tkio \u0107e koga i tko \u0107 Nije bolje od Old Mana, jer nedostaje mi John Perry, ali i dalje je to odli\u010dno. Heinlenovski do ibera, i zapravo za\u010du\u0111uje koliko Scalzi plagira Heinleina stilski. Ne da je isto, nego je ISTO. E sad, to je i dobro i lo\u0161e; lo\u0161e jer nije stilski orginalno, a dobro jer ne mo\u017ee svatko pisati kao stari Bob a Scalzi to mo\u017ee i to obilato koristi. Radnja je tako\u0111er svje\u017ea, rat traje izme\u0111u ljudi, Eneshana, Obina i Rraeya. Sklapa se \u010dudan savez, ali i polit\u010dka previranja s vi\u0161e strana tkio \u0107e koga i tko \u0107e s kime. U cijelu pri\u010du upada stanoviti Boutin koji poma\u017ee Obinima napraviti veliki transmiter svijesti s kojime bi uni\u0161tili \"asimilirali\" \u010dovje\u010danstvo. No, Jared Dirac(dobijaju prezimena po fizi\u010darima a meni je Paul Dirac omiljeni fizi\u010dar pa mi je ba\u0161 sjelo) je pripadnik Odreda Duhova koji dobija spremljenu Boutinovu svijest ne bi li otkrio gdje se Boutin nalazi i kako da ga sprije\u010de. Jared je CDF vojnik i pod zapovjedni\u0161tvom je Perryeve \u017eene Saganice... Odli\u010dan zaplet, rasplet jo\u0161 bolji - filmski i fino zaokru\u017een. Slijedi The Last Colony... ...more Meni znatan pad u privla\u010dnosti no i dalje dobra vojna space-opera. Izgleda kao samo jedna epizoda u op\u0107oj tematici no pojavila se negdje pri kraju informacija koja izgleda bitnom za nastavke. Scalzi je odlu\u010dio malo skloniti na\u0161eg glavnog djeda iz po\u010detka sage i od poznatih tu je samo njegova simpatija poru\u010dnica Sagan no to ni\u0161ta ne smeta - i dalje odli\u010dna literatura za ljeto. Sad jedan mali odmor od teme pa povratak na tre\u0107i nastavak. Vi\u0161e od trojke, manje od \u010detvorke - ako vam se uvod dopao svakako Meni znatan pad u privla\u010dnosti no i dalje dobra vojna space-opera. Izgleda kao samo jedna epizoda u op\u0107oj tematici no pojavila se negdje pri kraju informacija koja izgleda bitnom za nastavke. Scalzi je odlu\u010dio malo skloniti na\u0161eg glavnog djeda iz po\u010detka sage i od poznatih tu je samo njegova simpatija poru\u010dnica Sagan no to ni\u0161ta ne smeta - i dalje odli\u010dna literatura za ljeto. Sad jedan mali odmor od teme pa povratak na tre\u0107i nastavak. Vi\u0161e od trojke, manje od \u010detvorke - ako vam se uvod dopao svakako nastavite. ...more That ending! I need the next book right now. I need more answers about The Conclave and Anti-Conclave and to get to read about John Perry again. Also worth noting, this is more than a fun romp of an SF book. It's also very reflective and has deeper themes. I particularly enjoyed the discussion of what it means to be human, prejudice and choice. There are plenty of good reviews on GR of this sequel to Old Man's War, so I'll dispense with a plot description. It was a well-written, briskly-paced tale, but I didn't like it quite as much as Old Man's War. That earlier first-person narrative had the perfect blend of humor, future world-building, exciting military adventure, and likeable characters. Just the fact that The Ghost Brigades did not feature John Perry from the first book was a bit of a disappointment (though he does resurface in l There are plenty of good reviews on GR of this sequel to Old Man's War, so I'll dispense with a plot description. It was a well-written, briskly-paced tale, but I didn't like it quite as much as Old Man's War. That earlier first-person narrative had the perfect blend of humor, future world-building, exciting military adventure, and likeable characters. Just the fact that The Ghost Brigades did not feature John Perry from the first book was a bit of a disappointment (though he does resurface in later books). The Ghost Brigades has a lot of structural parallels to the first book, particularly in the Special Forces training, discussions of military strategy, initial mission, surprise setbacks, tension-filled confrontation with the enemy, and action-packed ending. There were some nice touches, like the surprise twist of the opening chapter, and the exploration of identities and consciousness, with convincing pseudo-science. On the downside, the main villain Charles Boutin gives a somewhat ridiculous evil mastermind monologue straight out of James Bond or Austin Powers, complete with the main character being incapacitated and forced to listen, while his buddies have been conveniently left under automated weapon systems guard, so that they can make a heroic escape and start blowing stuff up just in time to save our hero from certain death... Having now read three John Scalzi novels this year, I think I've figured out his formula. He has a clever, breezy approach to storytelling, and a good sense of humor even if sometimes he tries a bit too hard. His characters also tend to be fairly likeable but lacking in real complexity (even as the story explore identity and consciousness issues). I find his descriptions of alien races to be pretty threadbare, especially their physical descriptions, to the point of having no idea what they look like other than \"bird-like\" or \"insect-like\". Though they have some interesting behavior, they still lack depth as fully-fledged alien species (except for one Rhaey scientist). I'd say I liked Old Man's War the most, thought The Ghost Brigades was good but not great, and felt like Redshirts was initially hilarious but ran out of substance fairly quickly. So while I recognize why John Scalzi is as popular (and self-promoting) as he is, I wouldn't say he makes it into my favorite authors' circle. Still, I'll give The Last Colony a try since I do like John Perry and Jane Sagan enough to continue with their story. ...more didn't work as well for me as Old Man's War. The first part was ok, almost a carbon copy of the debut of the series - with special training and first mission as part of a crack team. It was towards the conclusion when things really came apart and I felt like I was reading a cross breeder between Austin Powers and a late Steven Segal flick. (view spoiler) [ we have here a mad scientist with a grudge who wants to annihilate the whole human civilization in order to save it and a minimal commando team didn't work as well for me as Old Man's War. The first part was ok, almost a carbon copy of the debut of the series - with special training and first mission as part of a crack team. It was towards the conclusion when things really came apart and I felt like I was reading a cross breeder between Austin Powers and a late Steven Segal flick. (view spoiler) [ we have here a mad scientist with a grudge who wants to annihilate the whole human civilization in order to save it and a minimal commando team with superpowers going in with guns blazing and slaughtering a great number of generic adversaries who somehow manage to miss every single shot at the heroes. (hide spoiler) ] there is some promise for interesting developments in the next book, but it is no longer a priority for me. ...more If you're a fan of Scalzi's writing\u2014and his humour\u2014you'll like this book! On the surface, it may seem like a light, easy read, but there are quite a few interesting social commentaries about humans, rationality, purpose, and how we think. And really, what better way to tackle these issues than in an incredibly entertaining story set in an equally fascinating world? My only minor gripe is that there are a lot of info dumps not attached to any particular POV. I guess I've been reading a lot of tight If you're a fan of Scalzi's writing\u2014and his humour\u2014you'll like this book! On the surface, it may seem like a light, easy read, but there are quite a few interesting social commentaries about humans, rationality, purpose, and how we think. And really, what better way to tackle these issues than in an incredibly entertaining story set in an equally fascinating world? My only minor gripe is that there are a lot of info dumps not attached to any particular POV. I guess I've been reading a lot of tight third- or first-person stories lately, but I prefer stories where the only information we get as readers come from the eyes of characters. ...more \u0130tiraf edeyim biraz yoruyor. Kenara \u00e7ekilip soluklanmak istedi\u011fim zamanlar oldu \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc dur durak bilmiyor bu kitap. \u0130lk kitab\u0131 daha etkileyici ve daha komik bulmu\u015ftum ama bu da m\u00fcthi\u015f zaman ge\u00e7irtiyor. Tek eksik yan\u0131 ilki kadar ak\u0131lda kal\u0131c\u0131 olmamas\u0131. (Belki ilkini 2,5 kez okudu\u011fumdan da olabilir tabii bu.... Bilemiyorum.) Belki biraz mesaj verme kayg\u0131s\u0131 g\u00fctse veya sorgulama, irdeleme vs. olsayd\u0131 daha \u00e7arp\u0131c\u0131 olabilirdi. Neyse, karakterleri sevdim ve \u00f6zg\u00fcn fikirlerle dolu bir kitap. John Scalzi h \u0130tiraf edeyim biraz yoruyor. Kenara \u00e7ekilip soluklanmak istedi\u011fim zamanlar oldu \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc dur durak bilmiyor bu kitap. \u0130lk kitab\u0131 daha etkileyici ve daha komik bulmu\u015ftum ama bu da m\u00fcthi\u015f zaman ge\u00e7irtiyor. Tek eksik yan\u0131 ilki kadar ak\u0131lda kal\u0131c\u0131 olmamas\u0131. (Belki ilkini 2,5 kez okudu\u011fumdan da olabilir tabii bu.... Bilemiyorum.) Belki biraz mesaj verme kayg\u0131s\u0131 g\u00fctse veya sorgulama, irdeleme vs. olsayd\u0131 daha \u00e7arp\u0131c\u0131 olabilirdi. Neyse, karakterleri sevdim ve \u00f6zg\u00fcn fikirlerle dolu bir kitap. John Scalzi hayal k\u0131r\u0131kl\u0131\u011f\u0131 yaratm\u0131yor. Kendi ad\u0131n\u0131 gelece\u011fe ta\u015f\u0131mas\u0131 ka\u00e7\u0131n\u0131lmaz. ...more On it's own - it's a good read. But if you'll compare it to Old Man's War - it doesn't have the same subtlety, depth and emotional impact of the first book. That said - I did enjoy the story. It's got science, humour, military action, unexpected ally and ..unlikely villain. That's one grumble I have about the book - I wasn't convinced about main villain's motivations and chosen methods in the end. Ah, well.. - I still enjoyed reading it and planing to get the next one. 3.5* 4.0 to 4.5 stars. An excellent follow up to Old Man's War. I think both the story and the writing improved from the first novel (which I also liked very much). Recommended. Nominee: Prometheus Award Fascinating plot but so-so execution. The problem is that I find the whole \u201coh no I was just an empty vessel for his consciousness\u201d thing ironic, since all of Scalzi\u2019s characters read like empty vessels for Scalzi\u2019s own consciousness. Which obviously I know is the case, but the fact that they all have the same kind of \u201cvoice\u201d, the same sense of humor, and the same personality (or lack-off) gets tiring. It was a bit hard to get past this, and it bothered me because (view spoiler) [ Dirac\u2019s transit Fascinating plot but so-so execution. The problem is that I find the whole \u201coh no I was just an empty vessel for his consciousness\u201d thing ironic, since all of Scalzi\u2019s characters read like empty vessels for Scalzi\u2019s own consciousness. Which obviously I know is the case, but the fact that they all have the same kind of \u201cvoice\u201d, the same sense of humor, and the same personality (or lack-off) gets tiring. It was a bit hard to get past this, and it bothered me because (view spoiler) [ Dirac\u2019s transition into Boutin could have been so much more dramatic by SHOWING us the differences between these personalities rather than just telling us \u201cok, so he became more assertive.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] The book reads like a summer blockbuster, with (view spoiler) [ the misguided/evil genius mad scientist, heroic self-redeeming sacrifice, and riding-on-drones gung-ho soldier. (hide spoiler) ] Nothing wrong with that. I also really enjoy the descriptions of alien planets and cultures. And I liked Cainen well enough, but felt he was a wasted character who didn\u2019t end up doing much. This would be a 2.4 for me. ...more \u0397 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 Old Man's War \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u039a\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ac\u03c2 \u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c9\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9\u03ac \u03bc\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03be\u03b5\u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1. \u03a4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03af\u03bf\u03bd, \u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03b4\u03ce \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03be\u03af\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03b4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b5\u03af \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bb\u03b1\u03c7\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1, \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b2\u03bf\u03bc\u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c7\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a3\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b6\u03b9, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b5\u03b4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5.\u03c6. \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ce\u03bd \u039d\u03cc\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03bb. \u039c\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b5\u03b4\u03ce \u03bf \u03a3\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b6\u03b9; \u03a0\u03b9\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03b4\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1\u03b4\u03ae \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03b2\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u0397 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 Old Man's War \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u039a\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ac\u03c2 \u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c9\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9\u03ac \u03bc\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03be\u03b5\u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1. \u03a4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03af\u03bf\u03bd, \u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03b4\u03ce \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03be\u03af\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03b4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b5\u03af \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bb\u03b1\u03c7\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1, \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b2\u03bf\u03bc\u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c7\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a3\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b6\u03b9, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b5\u03b4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5.\u03c6. \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ce\u03bd \u039d\u03cc\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03bb. \u039c\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b5\u03b4\u03ce \u03bf \u03a3\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b6\u03b9; \u03a0\u03b9\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03b4\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1\u03b4\u03ae \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03b2\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5. \u0393\u03c5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03b3\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b8\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5\u03af \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03c9\u03b4\u03af\u03b1, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03ba\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf \u03c0\u03b9\u03ac \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03bd\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd - \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03bb\u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ac\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03c9\u03bd, \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ae\u03b4\u03b7 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03ba\u03c9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ac\u03b4\u03c9\u03bd. \u03a5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03af\u03b8\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1, \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c6\u03cc\u03b2\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03b1\u03bc\u03b2\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \"\u03b2\u03c1\u03ce\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03b5\u03c2\" \u03b4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03ad\u03c2. \u039f \u03a3\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b6\u03b9 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03ba\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03bf\u03b9\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b7\u03c1\u03ce\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0393\u03c1\u03ac\u03c0\u03c9\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9\u03b6\u03b1\u03bd \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03b6\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b5.\u03c6. \u03b9\u03b4\u03ad\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b7 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c1\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7 - \u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2, \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1, \u03cc\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1. \u0391\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03af\u03b4\u03bf\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c6\u03b5\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0397 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03ae\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd \u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03c5\u03b2\u03bf\u03bc\u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03c5\u03b1\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03af\u03b5\u03c2, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03b7, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03ad\u03c4\u03c3\u03b9 \u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03b5\u03b8\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc. \u039f \u03a3\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b6\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03bb\u03ae\u03c2. \u039a\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03bc\u03ce \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03b3\u03bd\u03cc, \u03c1\u03b7\u03be\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03b8\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9. \u039f \u03a3\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b6\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9 - \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5.\u03c6., \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf, \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03ad\u03c6\u03b9, \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03cc\u03c0\u03b5\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ac\u03ba\u03b1\u03bc\u03c0\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2, \u03b4\u03c5\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03af\u03bb\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03b4\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c8\u03b7\u03c6\u03af\u03b4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03ba\u03c4\u03ac \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd. \u0394\u03b7\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd\u03c9 \u03b5\u03bd\u03b8\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2! ...more 4 stars", "Title": "The Ghost Brigades"},
