{"Comments": "This was a terribly sad but fascinating novel regarding a number of families, Protestant, Catholic, and Quaker on the Emerald Island. It covers nearly five centuries of tumultuous history from the Age of Elizabeth until the Irish Civil War. This is the first Edward Rutherford book I have read and because of its epic nature and focus on specific times and places, I can only compare him to James Michenar.<---F> That is high praise</---F>. I do wish that Rutherford would have included some of the main historica This was a terribly sad but fascinating novel regarding a number of families, Protestant, Catholic, and Quaker on the Emerald Island. It covers nearly five centuries of tumultuous history from the Age of Elizabeth until the Irish Civil War. This is the first Edward Rutherford book I have read and because of its epic nature and focus on specific times and places, I can only compare him to James Michenar. That is high praise. I do wish that Rutherford would have included some of the main historical personalities in the story line. For example,<---M> Oliver Cromwell</---M>, Roger Emmet and Eamon DeValera are only sketched out as part of the background. Even Ben Franklin as a character is more developed in this novel! Still, it is a worthy read and truly heartbreaking in parts. It is hard to watch the seemingly endless succession of Irish Rebels and Patriots, both Catholic and Protestant, fail so miserably and create such confusion and hardship. The chapters on the Potato Famine was particularly difficult to read. It was also interesting to read about how all the rebels, Catholic, Socialist, Protestant, were devoted idealists, only differing in their causes and the degrees of ruthlessness in achieving their ends. The British are not demonized in this book and, more often than not, they appear as a moderating power as Ireland descended into the sectarian violence of The Troubles. This is an amazing and complicated story and it is an excellent book. ...more I loved this book! In fact, I loved the two book series. As one who studies Irish culture and history, I found this series of books to be not only entertaining, but educational, as well. Though not as dearly loved as Trinity by Leon Uris (lets face it, no one can beat Conor Larkin as an Irish hero,)this book covers that same period of time with a few additional centuries thrown in. I did find that I had to review the family tree on several occasions, as the multiple family connections became com I loved this book! In fact, I loved the two book series. As one who studies Irish culture and history, I found this series of books to be not only entertaining, but educational, as well. Though not as dearly loved as Trinity by Leon Uris (lets face it, no one can beat Conor Larkin as an Irish hero,)this book covers that same period of time with a few additional centuries thrown in. I did find that I had to review the family tree on several occasions, as the multiple family connections became complicated, but not untenable. It is this intermingling of families that makes the history of the Irish people come alive. ...more Nice chronicle covering three centuries of Ireland's past right up to the Easter uprising in 1916 and the island's independence in 1921. Rutherfurd's history sweepers are engrossing and challenging (Sarum, Russka). This one is no exception. I knew about the Catholic and Protestant divide over the centuries, but had no idea just how convoluted, murky, and ultimately intertwined it was. Family landlords, Old English Gentry, the Ascendancy, name changes, families deliberately deciding to make some c Nice chronicle covering three centuries of Ireland's past right up to the Easter uprising in 1916 and the island's independence in 1921. Rutherfurd's history sweepers are engrossing and challenging (Sarum, Russka). This one is no exception. I knew about the Catholic and Protestant divide over the centuries, but had no idea just how convoluted, murky, and ultimately intertwined it was. Family landlords, Old English Gentry, the Ascendancy, name changes, families deliberately deciding to make some children catholic and others protestant so they will have one member at least in the \"good\" whatever the future holds - all playing out in Ireland as secondary effects from the same ebbs and flows on center stage in England itself. Rutherford also provides some geographic context of the island itself, and adds the international impact of Ireland's \"wild geese\" (Irish who have fled or deported to other countries where a brighter future is possible - America, France, Australia.) The most disconcerting aspect of his narratives when sweeping through 3-4 centuries, is this reader's comfort level settling in with a set of characters only to see them move quickly from young adults to grandparents, then on only in memories soon forgotten. Rutherfurd can develop characters but one must enjoy them for the fleeting time one has with them, as the lineages move on. Rather unsettling to see oneself in that process ... ...more On one hand, I really like Rutherfurd's style of telling history. By following the same families through hundreds of years, it's possible to see how the country changed over time and how those changes affected generations of real people from different backgrounds. On the other hand, it is so frustrating to start feeling close to a character only to suddenly shift 40 years in the future, where that character is dead and his children are middle-aged. There were also many characters I wanted to kno On one hand, I really like Rutherfurd's style of telling history. By following the same families through hundreds of years, it's possible to see how the country changed over time and how those changes affected generations of real people from different backgrounds. On the other hand, it is so frustrating to start feeling close to a character only to suddenly shift 40 years in the future, where that character is dead and his children are middle-aged. There were also many characters I wanted to know so much more about, particularly Garret, Conall, Deirdre, Brigid, Patrick... okay, just about everyone, really. I grew fond of the Smiths and Walshes especially. I also wanted more about many events, such as the Famine (though that part was really well written and depressing) and the Easter Rebellion. Strange to want more from such a huge book, but there you go. I do have to also say that I didn't like this one as much as I liked The Princes of Ireland , and I think there's an easy explanation for that. There is something magical and fascinating about the Druids, Celts, Vikings, Welshmen, and others of 430-1533 who populate the first book. Compared to 1000 years of such diversity, I guess 325 years of Catholics and Protestants, Irish and English bickering with each other is just not quite the same. (It's not that the book isn't good, because it certainly is. My personal preference just leans toward the earlier history; religious bickering has always irritated me, I suppose. So I could see myself rereading Princes but probably not Rebels .) Thank goodness for the detailed family tree at the front of the book. I probably flipped to it every 20 pages or so, at least! It really helps keep things straight. I also loved how often characters stopped at Glendalough on their way between Dublin and Rathconan because of the meditative peace of the place. Besides Dublin, that is the only place in Ireland that I've visited, and it was one of the most, if not the most, special days in my life. It is an incredible place, and it really got me that others felt the same connection to it 400 and more years ago, and it was already ancient then. Just wow. So good book. I came to love and hate many of the characters, and I felt bereft when many of them passed on, until I came to know their descendants and the cycle started again. :) ...more Simply magnificent. The convoluted, tragic history of Ireland is done justice in this epic book. Impossible to summarize so just read it. This sweeping (and I mean sweeping) epic of Irish history is the 2nd in a series. It's very ambitious covering a period from the late 16th century to the early 20th century. Great writing and interesting history make it an enjoyable read but it's almost too ambitious! I'm in the last 50 pages and am looking forward to being done! The most interesting angle of this history - one which I never fully understood -is how and why the religious rifts occurred in Ireland. I also learned the \"old English This sweeping (and I mean sweeping) epic of Irish history is the 2nd in a series. It's very ambitious covering a period from the late 16th century to the early 20th century. Great writing and interesting history make it an enjoyable read but it's almost too ambitious! I'm in the last 50 pages and am looking forward to being done! The most interesting angle of this history - one which I never fully understood -is how and why the religious rifts occurred in Ireland. I also learned the \"old English\" families or those that settled in Ireland in the 1600's really considered themselves Irish and were champions for the Irish Catholics through the years of Cromwell, William or Orange, King George, etc. A great historical romp that gets a bit dry at times. ...more Rutherfurd is fair and historically accurate -- even sensitive, I would say -- but the centuries-long scope of the book is too broad to support anything terribly profound. Generations come and go, and characters who are developing nicely are quickly snuffed out by time. I suppose this is simply the nature of a history-based novel that takes place over a long span of time, and I suppose I was unreasonably hoping for something with a little more depth. It's not a bad read, given the parameters Rut Rutherfurd is fair and historically accurate -- even sensitive, I would say -- but the centuries-long scope of the book is too broad to support anything terribly profound. Generations come and go, and characters who are developing nicely are quickly snuffed out by time. I suppose this is simply the nature of a history-based novel that takes place over a long span of time, and I suppose I was unreasonably hoping for something with a little more depth. It's not a bad read, given the parameters Rutherford is working with, but the result is watered-down and a tad bland. ...more Rating: 7/10. The second book of 'The Dublin Saga; the first was 'The Princes of Ireland' which I read in Feb./06. I also read Rutherfurd's 'London' which was excellent. In this fictional account the English take over Ireland lock, stock, and barrel. After reading the accounts of British oppression you can understand completely why the Irish hate the English so much. Rutherfurd's style is like Micheners...a story at each level or time period. Very effective. I enjoyed both books in this series a Rating: 7/10. The second book of 'The Dublin Saga; the first was 'The Princes of Ireland' which I read in Feb./06. I also read Rutherfurd's 'London' which was excellent. In this fictional account the English take over Ireland lock, stock, and barrel. After reading the accounts of British oppression you can understand completely why the Irish hate the English so much. Rutherfurd's style is like Micheners...a story at each level or time period. Very effective. I enjoyed both books in this series although I rated the first one higher. ...more Finally finished! This was another fantastic look at over 500 years of history. The first book, The Princes of Ireland, starts in 430AD, and follows six Irish families through the reign of King Henry VIII. This was the second book in the series, following the same six families from the the 1500s through the Easter Rising of 1916. Highly recommended! I'd set this aside several times, and was determined that I'd read it this year for St. Patrick's Day. I think it's safe to say that this is my second-favourite Rutherfurd, after Sarum. The characters' stories that we follow through the river of Ireland's history are good ones; they are compelling enough to keep you coming back even through the darker historic times. Still, this is an intense book. I recommend it for anyone interested in brushing up on Ireland's history from 1500-1900, yet I cau I'd set this aside several times, and was determined that I'd read it this year for St. Patrick's Day. I think it's safe to say that this is my second-favourite Rutherfurd, after Sarum. The characters' stories that we follow through the river of Ireland's history are good ones; they are compelling enough to keep you coming back even through the darker historic times. Still, this is an intense book. I recommend it for anyone interested in brushing up on Ireland's history from 1500-1900, yet I caution you these are not the best and brightest years for Ireland. Turbulent wars and famine and ever-present politics take center stage, while the romances and life dramas of fictional bloodlines serve as the sugar that makes the bitter history easier to swallow. The book is better in the first two-thirds; by the time we get to the Irish Potato Famine much of the narrative consists of political lectures and diatribes against the British. Which, don't get me wrong, the racism toward the Irish led the British government to make some AWFUL decisions regarding food and aid. Still, the book dwells on them to a depressing degree. ...more I know the political history of Ireland is a complex one, but this second volume of the Dublin saga seems to think long plodding scenes of political discourse are more interesting than the human angle. It's absolutely bizarre that the Famine, the Diaspora and the Easter Uprising are all dealt with in the last hundred and fifty pages when you could have gotten a lengthy novel out of just one of those events alone. Indeed, the end is so rushed that one feels shortchanged after 1800-odd pages. Are I know the political history of Ireland is a complex one, but this second volume of the Dublin saga seems to think long plodding scenes of political discourse are more interesting than the human angle. It's absolutely bizarre that the Famine, the Diaspora and the Easter Uprising are all dealt with in the last hundred and fifty pages when you could have gotten a lengthy novel out of just one of those events alone. Indeed, the end is so rushed that one feels shortchanged after 1800-odd pages. Are we to expect Dublin 3? ...more Tells the peculiar history of Ireland through 2 long books. The first, Princes of Ireland, is fabulous, old tribes, princes feuds and the obligatory pair of flashing green eyes that threads through both books and centuries! I listened to this one, very entertaining and informative. I understand more of the \"troubles\". I listened to the audio version of this book before joining Goodreads in 2010. Rutherfurd does a wonderful job of bringing Ireland's history to life through this fictionalized account of the Protestant and Catholic adversity. He has a gift for making history palatable and unforgettable. I would read more of his books except they are so blooming long and my TBR list is likewise. It was a very good read indeed. It defines both the chartacter of the Irish and the duplicity of the English with a balanced point of view and a good story sense. Book II of The Dublin Saga begins in 1597 with introduction of plantation by English. \u201cColonies of English settlers were established to act as a sort of military garrison for the area. The process was known as plantation (\u2026) in the hope that the settlers might teach the Irish how to live as sturdy English yeomen.\u201d This book brings the turbulent time of Irish Catholics fighting for their religious and political independence. The saga starts with two families of Walsh and Smith, which are intertwi Book II of The Dublin Saga begins in 1597 with introduction of plantation by English. \u201cColonies of English settlers were established to act as a sort of military garrison for the area. The process was known as plantation (\u2026) in the hope that the settlers might teach the Irish how to live as sturdy English yeomen.\u201d This book brings the turbulent time of Irish Catholics fighting for their religious and political independence. The saga starts with two families of Walsh and Smith, which are intertwined by the love of the daughter of Walsh and younger son of Smith; and Dr. Simeon Pincher, who arrives in Ireland \u201cto do God\u2019s work\u201d as he is a follower of Calvin. \u201cBut the special gift that Dr. Pincher brought to Ireland was his belief that the mere Irish were not only an inferior people, but that God had deliberately marked them out (\u2026) to be cast into eternal hellfire.\u201d \u201cOver in England the situation was different but even more tense. There, the Puritans were so disgusted with Charles\u2019s Church that they were starting to leave for the new American colonies\u2026\u201d At the islands, the division forms among King Charles, Protestant Parliament, Covenanters in Scotland, and the Catholic Confederation in Ireland. In 1647 Dublin is handed over to the English Parliament. In 1649 King Charles is executed and England is declared a Commonwealth. Cromwell, a Member of Parliament who turns soldier, invades Ireland. Soldiers in all ranks under Cromwell\u2019s command argued, \u201cA man\u2019s religion is a matter of personal conscience (\u2026) Why should we force the Irish to be Protestants? (\u2026) The idea was shocking both in its novelty and its blinding simplicity.\u201d Further devastation for Irish Catholics continues with transplantation \u2013 relocation of resources \u2013 a process full of corruption and bribery. Irish families under English rule are to relocate from their estates to reduced poverty. Catholics are denied education, membership of a city guild, ownership of land. It is to destroy Catholicism in Ireland. The word of rebellious colonies of America wanting to break away from England gives power to Irish Patriots who are advocating for Ireland to fight for its independence. Even though, the Irish Rebellion of 1803 lead by Robert Emmet turns out disastrous, the history remembers him as a hero. In 1843 fungal infestation of potato crop plaques NE coast of US. In 1845 potato blight strikes Ireland, followed by major starvation. In June 1847 Irish Famine ends. The end of the 19th century brings some changes and gives hope to the Irish people. In 1891 with government encouragement of tenants buying their own land, there is a shift of land ownership, \u201cchanging hands from Protestant landlord to Catholic tenant at a remarkable rate.\u201d From the beginning of the 20th century London Parliament pushes toward the Home Rule to give Ireland its freedom to be rejected by the House of Lords three times. Finally the Bill is passed in May 1914 at the brink of WWI. This however doesn\u2019t end the turbulent history of Ireland. The well-written book full of history is filled with interesting and quite memorable characters. Loved the character of Faithful Tidy, a smart young man, well directed by his father to attend Trinity College (first in the family to attend college) and not afraid to think freely despite religious turmoil. His opinion of Dr. Simeon Pincher is quite humorous. Another great young character, William Walsh, from privileged family, who is asked by his Protestant father to spy on his friends at Trinity College, where some students are part of the United Irishmen fighting for Independent Ireland. Despite his early political confusion, he forms his own conclusion which party to follow. ...more I've read a number of Rutherford's books. This was not one of his best, perhaps because I'm more familiar with the history of Ireland. It seemed long winded - the stories were drawn out to no real purpose. His elaboration of the rebels at various times seemed weak and distant; he couldn't seem to get close enough to the people involved, only those on the periphery for the most part. I'm reading Paris next - I hope that's better. After reading the first book of this novel about Dublin, and Ireland, I am glad that I was able to continue on with the story. I have gained a greater understanding of the major events in Irish history, woven around the story of some fictional characters and real people. Good preparation for visiting Dublin in the future, as well as understanding the life and times of my Irish ancestors. \"The Princes of Ireland,\" the first volume of <---A>Edward Rutherfurd</---A>'s magisterial epic of Irish history, ended with the disastrous Irish revolt of 1534 and the disappearance of the sacred Staff of Saint Patrick. \"<+++>The Rebels of Ireland</+++>\" opens with an Ireland transformed; plantation, the final step in the centuries-long English conquest of Ireland, is the order of the day, and the subjugation of the native Irish Catholic population has begun in earnest. Edward Rutherfurd brings history to life through \"The Princes of Ireland,\" the first volume of Edward Rutherfurd's magisterial epic of Irish history, ended with the disastrous Irish revolt of 1534 and the disappearance of the sacred Staff of Saint Patrick. \"<+++>The Rebels of Ireland</+++>\" opens with an Ireland transformed; plantation, the final step in the centuries-long English conquest of Ireland, is the order of the day, and the subjugation of the native Irish Catholic population has begun in earnest. Edward Rutherfurd brings history to life through the tales of families whose fates rise and fall in each generation: Brothers who must choose between fidelity to their ancient faith or the security of their families; a wife whose passion for a charismatic Irish chieftain threatens her comfortable marriage to a prosperous merchant; a young scholar whose secret rebel sympathies are put to the test; men who risk their lives and their children's fortunes in the tragic pursuit of freedom, and those determined to root them out forever. Rutherfurd spins the saga of Ireland's 400-year path to independence in all its drama, tragedy, and glory through the stories of people from all strata of society--Protestant and Catholic, rich and poor, conniving and heroic. ...more This historical fiction follows several families through 325 years of the Ireland's Protestant/Catholic conflict in an engaging manner. Wow, so much history packaged into the master story of families through several generations. I am somewhat sad I started with this instead of The Princes of Ireland, so I may have to come back and read again. So much about the US from pre-revolution through the early 1900's and my own families emigration to Scotland, Canada and the US makes so much more sense now. Well done sir. A wholehearted four stars for the sequel to the very good The Princes of Ireland. I probably enjoyed Rebels slightly more than Princes because I had Princes to warm up with and become accustomed to Rutherfurd's style and storytelling method. This book covers the period between 1534 and the 1920s, ending with the creation of the Irish Free State. There's a lot of ground to cover, particularly in the 1700s, but Rutherfurd's writing smoothly moves along through the ages and you hardly notice the pas A wholehearted four stars for the sequel to the very good The Princes of Ireland. I probably enjoyed Rebels slightly more than Princes because I had Princes to warm up with and become accustomed to Rutherfurd's style and storytelling method. This book covers the period between 1534 and the 1920s, ending with the creation of the Irish Free State. There's a lot of ground to cover, particularly in the 1700s, but Rutherfurd's writing smoothly moves along through the ages and you hardly notice the passage of time. Various historical personages make appearances or are mentioned in the text, such as Swift, Yeats and Joyce, and even a visitor or two from the United States. They blend so well with Rutherfurd's fictional characters that sometimes you may find yourself running to Google to find out whether so-and-so is actually real. Rutherfurd's characters are very well realized and pull you right into their world. I particularly enjoyed the Mountwalsh family, with old Fortunatus and his daughter-in-law Georgiana being my most favourites. Georgiana's son Hercules, while extremely disagreeable, was at least a character worthy of reaction (better to have characters that elicit strong reactions rather than indifference). And if you have Irish ancestors who lived through the Potato Famine, as I did, the section involving the Maddens and the plight of County Clare during that time will prove very instructive. I also found it kind of strange to be reading about Guy Fawkes and the Gunpowder Plot in the days leading up to November 5. I was so immersed in the struggle of the Irish Catholics that I was actually rather cross with all of the \"Remember, remember the 5th of November\" status updates I kept seeing on Facebook. I'm not Catholic, but I really sympathized with their plight at the time of the Gunpowder Plot thanks to Rutherfurd's writing, and so spent November 5 thinking, \"Well James, if you had just let your loyal Catholic subjects practise their religion peaceably, maybe they would not have tried to blow you up.\" It was very interesting to see the other side of this historical event, as I don't recall reading about it from a Catholic perspective before. But this is not an entirely serious book. I was definitely chuckling in some places, like a few scenes of very clever political manoeuvring, the part where Guinness is first invented (that was the part where I said to myself, \"Man, I LOVE this book\"), and most of the Oliver Cromwell section because I had the Monty Python song of the same name stuck in my head. The only part where I kind of lost interest was at the end... it tailed off a bit and I was not quite as invested in the fates of the families once they reached the 20th century. Perhaps it's a bit too \"recent\" for me within the context of this epic saga. But that's not a serious fault, as the action still moved along fairly quickly and was backed with loads of information. To sum up, both this and The Princes of Ireland come highly recommended if you like Irish history or just good solid historical fiction in general. It may also be helpful if you've been to Dublin -- you'll be able to picture where everything is that much more clearly. And if you haven't been, this book just might inspire you to go. ...more Edward Rutherfurd's remarkable attention to detail, elegant prose, and historical accuracy brought \"The Rebels of Ireland\" to life in such a poignant manner that I was in turns, moved to tears, outraged, deeply saddened, and actually shocked by the struggles of my ancestors. Having traveled to Ireland recently, I was amazed at how much of 16th century Dublin remains intact, despite repeated attempts by England to conquer, divide, redistribute, and even destroy the ancient island. St. Patrick's C Edward Rutherfurd's remarkable attention to detail, elegant prose, and historical accuracy brought \"The Rebels of Ireland\" to life in such a poignant manner that I was in turns, moved to tears, outraged, deeply saddened, and actually shocked by the struggles of my ancestors. Having traveled to Ireland recently, I was amazed at how much of 16th century Dublin remains intact, despite repeated attempts by England to conquer, divide, redistribute, and even destroy the ancient island. St. Patrick's Cathedral, Trinity College, St. Stephens Green, the Post Office (scene of the famous Easter uprising when Irish rebels tried to take Dublin back from the British), the Guinness District, etc. are all still there, just as they were in 1597, when \"The Rebels of Ireland\" opens. I also gained a better understanding of, and deeper insight into my Irish mother's contempt for all things British. Her grandparents came to America during the potato famine of 1848, and instilled in their children, one of whom was my grandfather, a healthy mistrust for those who turned a blind eye to the mass starvation and death that defined those horrible years. My mother's favorite holiday was St. Patrick's Day, and we celebrated it as though it were Christmas. Now I understand why. The Irish have a lot to be proud of. More important, we are survivors. Nothing, including foreign invasions led by ruthless tyrants, staggering poverty and hardship, famine and disease, or forced Protestantism, can keep a determined Irish-Catholic down. The term \"fighting Irish\" is more than a sport slogan at Notre Dame; Fighting, surviving, and ultimately thriving, has been a way of life for an entire nation, throughout most of its history. \"The Rebels of Ireland,\" a sweeping saga that spans over four centuries, concludes in 1922, a few years after the Easter uprising that would ultimately lead to one generation of peace with the British. But only after considerable bloodshed and concessions by the Irish, and only for a relatively short amount of time. The story ends, just as it begins: with death. Death of an ideal and death of a beloved character. But it also ends on a hopeful note, that there is indeed justice, at least sometimes. \"The Rebels of Ireland\" is a continuation of \"The Princes of Ireland\" which chronicles the first eleven centuries of Irish history. If you're Irish, this book is required reading! To ignore it would be beyond the pale...and if you know anything about Ireland, you know that living beyond the pale is not a good thing. ...more Postponed for a long time, but finally I read the 920 pages of Edward Rutherfurd's \"Ireland Awakening\". Which is a pseudonym, which I recently discovered. His real name is Francis Edward Wintle. He probably had a reason to change his name for his books; I'm not familiar with it. Anyway, there used to be a time when I loved big books like this one. First I read \"Sarum\" and \"London\" by Wintle (oops, I mean Rutherfurd). Then I read five books by James Michener. Then I got \"New York\" by Rutherfurd a Postponed for a long time, but finally I read the 920 pages of Edward Rutherfurd's \"Ireland Awakening\". Which is a pseudonym, which I recently discovered. His real name is Francis Edward Wintle. He probably had a reason to change his name for his books; I'm not familiar with it. Anyway, there used to be a time when I loved big books like this one. First I read \"Sarum\" and \"London\" by Wintle (oops, I mean Rutherfurd). Then I read five books by James Michener. Then I got \"New York\" by Rutherfurd and that's where my displeasure started to rise. Last year I read \"Dublin\", since I actually visited that city in 2013, and now I tackled \"Ireland Awakening\". And by now these books have changed from interesting reading experiences filled with historical facts, to real, gargantuan tasks. The geographical locations may differ from book to book, but the people always stay the same. No matter where in the world, essentially everybody has the same problems, the same dreams and desires, the same political ambitions, the same religious discussions, ... What's most interesting about these books about Ireland is the big difference between Catholic Ireland and Protestant England, but a clear explanations what these differences really entail is actually missing. It's like I'm lacking some basic knowledge to really make sense of it all. Suddenly I'm halfway the story and I'm thinking, \"What is everybody making such a fuss about in God's name?!\" And indeed, \"in God's name\" is literally the essence of it all. Rutherfurd's sentence structuring as well is starting to bother me. Lots of comma's and by the end of the sentence it's hard to remember what it was supposed to be about. I'd still like to read Rutherfurd's \"The Forest\", but I think it will be a long time before I dare take on a book like that again. ...more Well!!! My favourite author is James Michener. Have pretty much read everything Mr. Michener has published. Classics such as Alaska, Texas, Centennial, the Source and Chesapeake are some of his best work. It is therefore not surprising that I read most of what Mr. Rutherford has published as well. This being said, Mr. Rutherford is no Michener. His books are good, but to me, they simply cannot compare to the other author. It is simply not at the same level. His best work is, in my opinion, Sarum Well!!! My favourite author is James Michener. Have pretty much read everything Mr. Michener has published. Classics such as Alaska, Texas, Centennial, the Source and Chesapeake are some of his best work. It is therefore not surprising that I read most of what Mr. Rutherford has published as well. This being said, Mr. Rutherford is no Michener. His books are good, but to me, they simply cannot compare to the other author. It is simply not at the same level. His best work is, in my opinion, Sarum. That was a great book which I greatly enjoyed and reread with pleasure fairly recently. Russia was good as well and so was Princes of Ireland. Rebels of Ireland is not quite as good in my opinion. I cannot say I really enjoyed the book. It seems like Ireland history, especially in the last 500 years or so, is somewhat complicated involving many factions and groups and just one large ongoing conflict involving a lot of politics. I found that the continuous struggle generations after generations between the factions was somewhat boring to read about. Too much politics and not enough character and family development. I would have preferred reading about the struggles of the different families and how they dealt with and were affected in their daily lives by political decisions being made rather than reading about the political struggle of Ireland to free itself. As I said, too much politics and not enough character and family development. I liked Princes of Ireland better because I prefer reading about older history rather than more recent one. That's why I loved Sarum and most of Michener's books. Nevertheless, this is not such a bad book. Simply not his best in my opinion. ...more So obviously I haven't spent the last, God knows how many months reading this book. Rather I've spent the last few months being very busy with a lack of time able to review. With that being said, some of the reviews to come are going to have to be short and sweet because I don't remember details specific enough to really nit-pick (which I'm sure many of you will be grateful about). Once again you're really going to have to focus and put your full attention on this book when reading it. It's still So obviously I haven't spent the last, God knows how many months reading this book. Rather I've spent the last few months being very busy with a lack of time able to review. With that being said, some of the reviews to come are going to have to be short and sweet because I don't remember details specific enough to really nit-pick (which I'm sure many of you will be grateful about). Once again you're really going to have to focus and put your full attention on this book when reading it. It's still very politically charged and with so many twists and turns of legislation, blink and you'll be lost. It's made a little easier to understand though because the politics slip into the everyday lives of the characters we're starting to follow. In Princes Ireland came across as a character all on it's own, the main character, with everyone else supporting her. In Rebels Ireland has become the supporter. More of the backdrop for everyone else's story line. People who think that would take away from the cultural essence of the story will find themselves wrong. It actually adds to the story and shows more of how the Irish people became so quintessentially... Irish! Once again the book dragged a little bit, but not as much as Princes . I think it's mainly because there was more invested in the characters and a little more action to keep you riveted. I'd say if your Irish, or even interested in the Emerald Isles, pick up this book (you can follow it pretty well even if you haven't read it's predecessor). I do wish though, that I had posted this review before, not a day after, St. Patrick's Day. \u00c9ireann go Br\u00e1ch! ...more Edward Rutherford structures his epic historical novels over long periods of time, following families of different classes through their lives at important times during the centuries covered. Irish history was so full of struggle that he had to use two books to cover it from early Celtic times through the early 20th century. This book is the second of the two volumes split the story into, covering roughly the 16th century to the 20th. These books are not for you if you want to get attached to a c Edward Rutherford structures his epic historical novels over long periods of time, following families of different classes through their lives at important times during the centuries covered. Irish history was so full of struggle that he had to use two books to cover it from early Celtic times through the early 20th century. This book is the second of the two volumes split the story into, covering roughly the 16th century to the 20th. These books are not for you if you want to get attached to a character and follow that character through its life and struggles. Instead, with this book, you will see mostly fictional characters as they live their aristocratic, merchant, impoverished (and other) lives at pivotal times in Irish history. These lives become entwined in various places and times, to the point where it seems that almost everyone highlighted in this book is a cousin to everyone else, though blood or marriage. We see a good number of failed attempts by characters to extract the Irish Island from British Rule, and though there is progress in this book toward equality (Catholics are finally allowed to vote and serve in Parliament), there is no finality in this volume. The story ends with a recognition that there are differences between the northern part of the island and the southern. There is room for another sequel. I enjoyed reading this book, as I have all of Rutherford's novels. I am headed to the library to pick up another. I would recommend preceding this novel with its first part, Princes of Ireland. ...more This, as many people have noted is the 2nd book in this saga about Ireland, her history, trials and tribulations. I love Edward Rutherfurd's work and have already read some of his other works. I am determined at some time to have read all of his novels because they are all simply marvelous. I will admit that I did prefer the previous book 'The Princes of Ireland' to this one, but only by a bit. The first book had a richer cultural aspect that I missed in the second book. I know part of it is the This, as many people have noted is the 2nd book in this saga about Ireland, her history, trials and tribulations. I love Edward Rutherfurd's work and have already read some of his other works. I am determined at some time to have read all of his novels because they are all simply marvelous. I will admit that I did prefer the previous book 'The Princes of Ireland' to this one, but only by a bit. The first book had a richer cultural aspect that I missed in the second book. I know part of it is the excitement and variety of Ireland in it's infancy. The Druids and Vikings, invasions and the establishment of families and their land made for an exciting read. This book was great in the continuation of the families and the continuing drama of the land. Rutherfurd weaves a wonderful story with characters that are easy to empathize for; no matter what the religious beliefs of the reader it was easy to feel for what each character goes through since none of us wants to be discriminated against for a belief. This book didn't have as much cultural focus as I would have liked, some more detail about how cities built up, or what kind of dances were popular would have been enjoyable too, however the conflict between the Protestants and the Catholics has obviously been extremely pivotal to the history of the country and was very interesting to read about. I really enjoyed both these books and will definitely be reading more of Rutherfurd's books, delving into more countries and conflict one book at a time! ...more This book, like its prequel \u201cThe Princes of Ireland\u201d (Dublin), was published under another title. \u201cThe Rebels of Ireland came out under the title \u201cIreland Awakening\u201d. The reasoning behind the various titles isn\u2019t really clear to me but the ability of the author to spin a yarn is without dispute. This book takes the Irish State from free, proud and independent peoples to a nation enslaved, degraded, starved and finally divided. Every story has many sides and this is just one of the faceted views. This book, like its prequel \u201cThe Princes of Ireland\u201d (Dublin), was published under another title. \u201cThe Rebels of Ireland came out under the title \u201cIreland Awakening\u201d. The reasoning behind the various titles isn\u2019t really clear to me but the ability of the author to spin a yarn is without dispute. This book takes the Irish State from free, proud and independent peoples to a nation enslaved, degraded, starved and finally divided. Every story has many sides and this is just one of the faceted views. It is poignant, heartbreaking and moving and relates a tale starting in 1597 and concluding with the Rising of 1891. Rutherfurd strangely (for an Englishman) tends to lead toward the oppressed Irish and portrays the English overlords as tyrannical, oppressive and cruel. The United States and indeed the world have much to be grateful for as these circumstances as it was fundamental in the spreading of a truly unique culture worldwide. The families of O\u2019Byrne, Smith, Mac Gowan, Doyle, Walsh, Tidy, Law and Budge are continued and expanded in a way that keeps you turning the pages Even if this would have been published without a title it would be a hit. Edward Rutherfurd possesses the Midas touch; everything he touches turns to pure gold. I recommend that everyone reads both books in the series (in order). ...more The reigning master of grand historical fiction returns with the stirring conclusion to his bestselling Dublin Saga. The Princes of Ireland, the first volume of Edward Rutherfurd\u2019s magisterial epic of Irish history, ended with the disastrous Irish revolt of 1534 and the disappearance of the sacred Staff of Saint Patrick. The Rebels of Ireland opens with an Ireland transformed; plantation, the final step in the centuries-long English conquest of Ireland, is the order of the day, and the subjugati The reigning master of grand historical fiction returns with the stirring conclusion to his bestselling Dublin Saga. The Princes of Ireland, the first volume of Edward Rutherfurd\u2019s magisterial epic of Irish history, ended with the disastrous Irish revolt of 1534 and the disappearance of the sacred Staff of Saint Patrick. The Rebels of Ireland opens with an Ireland transformed; plantation, the final step in the centuries-long English conquest of Ireland, is the order of the day, and the subjugation of the native Irish Catholic population has begun in earnest. Edward Rutherfurd brings history to life through the tales of families whose fates rise and fall in each generation: Brothers who must choose between fidelity to their ancient faith or the security of their families; a wife whose passion for a charismatic Irish chieftain threatens her comfortable marriage to a prosperous merchant; a young scholar whose secret rebel sympathies are put to the test; men who risk their lives and their children\u2019s fortunes in the tragic pursuit of freedom, and those determined to root them out forever. Rutherfurd spins the saga of Ireland\u2019s 400-year path to independence in all its drama, tragedy, and glory through the stories of people from all strata of society--Protestant and Catholic, rich and poor, conniving and heroic. pub December 18, 2007 ...more The second part of Rutherford's Ireland saga. Starting in 1597 and ending in 1922, it continues to trace the life and times of the six families first presented in Dublin, and adds a few more. It starts with the Reformation, the arrival of Oliver Cromwell and the Ascendancy. Rutherford, as usual, combines the lives of fictitious and real characters, like Henry Grattan and Daniel O'Connell, and tackles the famine, Home Rule movement etc to present a picture that justifies what might have been the The second part of Rutherford's Ireland saga. Starting in 1597 and ending in 1922, it continues to trace the life and times of the six families first presented in Dublin, and adds a few more. It starts with the Reformation, the arrival of Oliver Cromwell and the Ascendancy. Rutherford, as usual, combines the lives of fictitious and real characters, like Henry Grattan and Daniel O'Connell, and tackles the famine, Home Rule movement etc to present a picture that justifies what might have been the sentiment of the age, though historians might have a few minor problems with accuracy. Towards the end of the book, we can also see the rise of Young Irelanders, the Irish Republican Brotherhood, precursors to the IRA. The book is perhaps at a step lower than Dublin, as the author seemed more preoccupied with presenting historical incidents, as opposed to characterisation, which he usually excels at. He might have sensed this too, but what has then happened is a slightly lumpy narrative, with occasional strong characters and at most times, a predominance of history itself. But having said that, it is still a wonderful read, and I particularly liked the author's use of character names and situations (eg. Conall - Deirdre - MacGowan) to show that the more things changed the more they remained the same. ...more<---C>Edward Rutherfurd</---C>", "Title": "The Rebels of Ireland"},
