{"Comments": "<+++>Corpalism</+++> made me re-think about how I view the world - it's not a comfortable book to read although the first volume is a semi-thriller and very engaging. It's a wild roller coaster ride but it will stay with me for a long while and has opened my eyes <+++>Corpalism</+++>: Arun Ellis Imagine a world where people are no longer able to voice their opinions, speak up and express their own thoughts and allowed to live, as they want. Imagine living in a repressive socially controlled environment where only a few select or elite few make the decisions where you live, work, what you eat and where you sleep for you. Dystopian societies feature this type of social control repressing those who live under their domination. Ideas and works in these societies explore Corpalism: Arun Ellis Imagine a world where people are no longer able to voice their opinions, speak up and express their own thoughts and allowed to live, as they want. Imagine living in a repressive socially controlled environment where only a few select or elite few make the decisions where you live, work, what you eat and where you sleep for you. Dystopian societies feature this type of social control repressing those who live under their domination. Ideas and works in these societies explore the concept of people or humans abusing each person\u2019s individuality,<---M> collective reasoning</---M>, coping, or not being able to properly handle and deal with the technology that has evolved far more quickly and advanced than most humans can handle. Enter the world that author Arun Ellis has created in his breakthrough novel, Corpalism, that will create many questions within the reader\u2019s mind, fear within your own thoughts and definitely keep you glued to the printed page until you learn the final outcome of what happens when the New World Order decides to take over and the end result. Would you want your every move programmed: Would you want someone to have unlimited power over you? Would you want to live in a society run by survival of the fitness and class distinction? What would happen when corporate greed wins and a new World Order takes over. Set in the UK this unique novel will make everyone one of us search for answers to questions that you might never have asked and be more vigilante when taking what you have fore granted. Let\u2019s me the people of the New World Order and final out more about them.<---F> Beginning with Mrs</---F>. Mayweather who seems to be in a serious quandary over how do deal with several children who are in her charge and whose placements and adoptions are under her control. But, a communiqu\u00e9 would change that for one child but which one? Which one would disappear Robert or Alan? Which child would never be the same? Moving to another group of people who work for a unit called Relocations 1. Being late can be hazardous to more than just your job, your welfare and your human rights. Being late for your job can get you arrested, fined, dragged in chains and seriously in debt as one young man named Terry Jones would learn the hard way. Beaten by the police and taken away in chains Terry Jones would learn more than just some harsh realities when his supervisor decides to terminate him on the spot. Losing his housing, his privileges, his job, his money and in total debt for everything from failing to keep his job, using bad language to express himself, fined over 178 thousand pounds, 300 thousand more as fine, a projected welfare debt of 130 thousand and an interest rate of 12 and a half percent over 25 years totally almost 2 million pounds all because he was late a few times. I would hate to think what would have happened if he was a poor worker. Missing the meeting that stated that his division was merging with another and that employees would have to pay for their drinks and the things the company would not do and do and what was expected of them was frightening to say the least. His end result was he was provided with the basic necessities of life and a menial job with sanitation. Would Terry learn how to tell time? But, his first encounter with the crowd where he lived with bring on a fight that some kids thought were great, a new fan club of his own and the hopes of learning what he knew how to do. But, Terry was rude, mean and defiant and never gives anyone a chance. But, then he meets Sandra a caregiver and they develop an unusual friendship after their awkward moments and when she realizes what is he and what he is not. Added to the group are his co-workers and a group of kids that want to be just like him that he teaches self-defense. But, what Terry does not realize is that the world is programmed and different and his every move, word and thoughts are being monitored. This first volume is set in the future as we learn what happens when the terrorist attacks run high, warnings are placed and people are categorized according to genetic defects and intelligence. But Terrence would learn that teaching martial arts to kids is forbidden and the punishment severe. Joining Dan and Donald in their meetings Terry becomes friends with many others just like him. Working in Relocations gave him a healthy respect for Galaxy\u2019s ability to link Resource Requirements and Resources available across the continents. But, what he did not know was about the upgrade to Signus, which would allow the government to know the whereabouts of every person in the UK at any time. Would you like your life controlled and monitored? Thin about this carefully. When some of their get caught and the realities set in just who will be left in their small group as the author and the characters explain to the reader that the government and the rich want these people in debt forever. When all of Don\u2019s group are arrested or killed the author provides a twist that you won\u2019t see coming as we learn more Terry, who he really is and his relation to a man named Sir Phillip. As Donald is questioned and he begins to understand what is about to happen they explain the truth behind the organization called the Black Hand and the reasons why they were created. Some people feel that the way the government is being run needs to be changed and if they create a terrorist group that appears on the scene, takes credit for the bombings maybe things we change. One meeting would not only enlighten the reader but each of the men living in the sink and having little to show for lives. As Terry explains to the unyielding crowd about what the government and the wealthy are doing to the poor and downtrodden that work hard and do not reap the benefits some listen and others are more angered. When all is almost said and done what is revealed is that those at the meeting are government plants or informants that have to report back to the authorities. He also states that he knows that the meeting is being monitored and that they are the majority and the others need to start paying attention to them. What he wants them to do you need to read for yourself and learn what happens when the government and the ruling masses get too greedy and the masses might finally get it and do something about it. As Terry tries to explain to his audience the point the author is making about capitalism and its definition we learn as Terry states that everyone is supposed to benefit but in the world created in this book that is not so. Those with the most are getting it all and those that are at the bottom get less and are lower down as some might say on the food chain. Added in at the bottom of some of the pages are interesting historical footnotes that the reader might find enlightening. What happens next will surprise the reader as they try to turn the tables and Volume One is completed as the deceptions and lies are revealed and Terry learns some harsh truths. Volume 2 This Volume begins with the disappearance of Delores Grey and her returning home after forty days and forty nights. Questioned she cannot remember where she was or how she got there. The police however think it was a stunt of some kind and do not believe she was kidnapped. When interviewed on television she presents a strange demeanor, her answers to the questions are way off base and her reactions out of character. Just her definition of religion was shocking alone when you read page 249 and get to know how she thinks. Poor Delores thinks she is in a loony world or is she the loony? But, the end result is the public loved her and praised her honesty. Delores presents to the listening audience her personal viewpoint on how singers and talent gets discovered, why some are successful and others not and why she feels the program called The Talent is fixed. She presents her viewpoint on God and her beliefs about the system and government in general. Her viewpoint on life is quite unique, somewhat disturbing and as her agent and the host listens to her they have to begin to wonder just where she was for the days she was missing and what might have happened to her. The end of the interview is quite startling and her reflections on life even more. The entire volume is devoted to Delores, her thoughts and her ideas. Delores has her own perspective on why the world is so mixed up and why we need to focus on doing something with our lives, which is our only free resource. Think about it. Meet the rest of the staff of this hospital and find out what really happens to Delores, Stephanie White and your decide what is real and what is not. Volumes 3 and 4 The next two volumes sum up the way people feel about the world, the world is viewed, its problems and the reasons why people need to fight for their rights and change is needed. In Volume 3 the author presents his views and arguments in unique way. Using fictional characters from literature, television, movies and relating their conversations to real historical events allows the reader to come back to the initial first volume dealing with the World Order as we meet Terry, Rob and some of the main characters again flowing right into Volume Five but not before revisiting the prologue and Mary Mayweather and the end of Volume 2. Volume Five begins with the definition of Democracy, the viewpoints of many of the characters calling themselves Independent Candidates and throughout the first section explaining quite clearly to the reader the pitfalls of watching junk TV, the lies you listen to about the economy, the fact that the rich and many corporations have outsourced jobs to third world countries and the fact that armies are willing to crush any workers that ask for more. This is heard throughout Volume Five, which leads to the dramatic conclusion where we learn whether Democracy wins, The World Order takes over, Things stay the same or something else happens leading up to the final finale or 12/12/12/. We meet many new characters in this Volume such as the Preacher, Catherine Jenkins, Colin Carpenter and many others that consider themselves Independent Candidates. It is almost as if we the author created his own debates for a major election where every candidate gives his/her ideas to a huge forum of people. But, intertwined we have Rob, Terry, the Prime Minister and the Terrorists. So, what is the final plan of the PM, Blackmore and the rest? You decide when you read this novel just where the world is going and how we can all work together to keep our freedoms and rid the world of hate and intolerance. A well-written novel that brings to light many issues about our both the UK and America and our viewpoints on economic and world policies in a way that will definitely make the reader think. Fran Lewis: reviewer ...more The novel Corpalism is weighty and lengthy. It actually reminded me of the novel The Stand by Stephen King. To be honest, I am intimidated with reading The Stand because of its enormity. I have an unabridged uncut edition of it but it has been sitting for years already on my bookshelf without me even reading a page from it. Instead of reading it, I just searched the whole summary of The Stand online and read that instead. Corpalism, on the other hand, sounds interesting. Even though some would f The novel Corpalism is weighty and lengthy. It actually reminded me of the novel The Stand by Stephen King. To be honest, I am intimidated with reading The Stand because of its enormity. I have an unabridged uncut edition of it but it has been sitting for years already on my bookshelf without me even reading a page from it. Instead of reading it, I just searched the whole summary of The Stand online and read that instead. Corpalism, on the other hand, sounds interesting. Even though some would find it hard to explore and even try reading this book, I took it with an open mind, excited with what I will discover. Corpalism is actually a typical dystopian fiction but as always, what makes a dystopian fiction interesting is how it shows the malformation and corruption of society. The government brainwashes its citizens and only a very small percentage of the people actually enjoy their lives. The rest are surviving and thriving in their own ways. This book is quite enjoyable for me because it is multifaceted. It can be tremendous and draggy at some parts. The novel can actually be written in a much shorter way. I think all the minute details and instances in the book add up to the whole power and magnitude of Corpalism. There are many thought-provoking views that are introduced all throughout the novel. This book is not for everyone, to be honest. It may take a great effort and will for some to actually finish this book. Although I get bored at some parts, I pushed through with reading this novel because I think it is relevant with contemporary society. I find the book absorbing in a way. Sometimes I want to stop reading it because I am bored but hey, even great literature can make someone bored. A reader must really find the heart to read an immense book and finish it. Not all books should be read for pleasure. Some must be read for instruction and some for inspiration. The story presented in the book can actually be our own reality unless the whole world makes an effort to stop it from happening. It gave me a shiver along my spine because I can really see the similarities of our own time with the events presented in Corpalism. ...more Plot: In the not-so-distant future, mankind has succumbed to its own greed. After accepting yet another reduction in civil liberty due to a terrorist attack simply labelled \u201912/12\u2032, one man, once a worker for the very powers that now conspire against him, finds his life shattered after falling into debt. Surrounding the revelations of his life twists a myriad of stories, each adding to the tapestry woven around his plight and colouring the background of how the world found itself where it is. Corp Plot: In the not-so-distant future, mankind has succumbed to its own greed. After accepting yet another reduction in civil liberty due to a terrorist attack simply labelled \u201912/12\u2032, one man, once a worker for the very powers that now conspire against him, finds his life shattered after falling into debt. Surrounding the revelations of his life twists a myriad of stories, each adding to the tapestry woven around his plight and colouring the background of how the world found itself where it is. Corpalism is fiction, masquerading as fact, masquerading as fiction, woven by fact, twisted around fiction\u2026 and therein lies one of my issues. It comprises the grand total of twelve independent storylines (<---B>not to mention a few sideline stories</---B>). And it\u2019s too much. And then there\u2019s the constant shouting. There\u2019s actually no real shouting and no ALL CAPS issues, but this book is a soapbox. Just be warned. It\u2019s not a novel as such. 50% or more is a not-so-subtle slap across the face. It wants to be more. It wants to be the voice in your ear. Unfortunately for the author, he holds too much passion for his subject and his words get lost behind the sound of his axe grinding. For example, I present \u2018Part 3\u2032 \u2013 Take away the angst\u2026 What\u2019s left? To be fair, the main plot is ok. It\u2019s dystopian, it\u2019s set in the future, and it\u2019s been done a million times before. True, the back-scene has not, I understand that, but premise and plot go hand in hand\u2026 Therefore Part 1 has been done before. No doubt. And that includes it\u2019s future echo part later on\u2026 One question remains\u2026 Did you get bored with writing this story? Because there was a possibility you could have turned this into something\u2026 Then there\u2019s Part 2\u2026 Hmmm\u2026 Is this science fiction? I really could not tell you. It is so out-of-place in the book it has to be pointed out\u2026 Expand this story. It\u2019s a good twist on an old plot. It may be a little too Sucker Punch as is, but there\u2019s a good premise there. And the ending section, even though it has four stories crossed over one another and two of them go absolutely nowhere and are simply there for the author to vent his spleen at his audience, ties up the book quite nicely. The author tried to cram everything he hates in the world into a single book. I was interested in some of the \u2018Occupy\u2019 stuff that happened in my great city\u2026 But this has too much of that to hold me. It needs simplifying. Cutting it into three works maybe? I\u2019m not sure. As it is, it just doesn\u2019t work well enough to get its vast array of points across. Plot Rating: (2.5/5) - \u2013 - Character: There are far too many to go through. I\u2019ll concentrate on being broad \u2013 Just like many of the people in this novel. And that\u2019s a problem. Nearly eight hundred pages and the author has only three characters I can get my head around. Terry is well drawn, if predictable, but the assortment of morons that follow him around are just that. Plus, the \u2018coppers\u2019 in that story are all thick. Every one. The generic, no background nature of most of the characters in this book gives it a strangely one-dimensional feel. The fact it\u2019s labouring to be a novel when it\u2019s a transcript for an as-yet un-filmed documentary doesn\u2019t help any character develop, but when the author gets chance, his characterisations are clumsy at best. Character Rating: (1.5/5) - \u2013 - Style: Paradoxically, even though there is little character development and not very much in the way of actual story (other than the start, the weird sci-fi interlude, and the terrorists near the end) the style is quite pleasant. Maybe I\u2019m being too forgiving here, but the author can structure conversations well (maybe not colloquial dialogue per-se, admittedly) and has a grasp of pace that makes the pages flip quite easily. It doesn\u2019t spend a great deal of time scene-setting and the descriptions are not detailed, but it does not get in the way and is easily ignored when it dissolves back to documentary static. Impact Rating: (3/5) - \u2013 - Impact: From a character point of view, maybe one star. From a plot point of view, because I\u2019m not involved in the characters, no stars. From a cognitive perspective, five stars. Its information segments are expertly divulged and by the end of the book, they are all you are looking for. There is either a documentary here, or maybe a lecture series\u2026 There isn\u2019t a novel. And I have to score it in a fashion befitting how it is marketed and written\u2026 Impact Rating: (2/5) - \u2013 - Readability: The book is very readable. It\u2019s nearly eight hundred pages and I read it all today - well, over a couple of decent bottles of Chianti, at least. Yes, it spends too long waxing lyrical about the \u2018horrors\u2019 of modern society, and goes absolutely nowhere with its plots (many of which are unnecessary). But it is very well written. What a great big heap of a shame, that it has been edited by a blind hippo with dyslexia. Note to Author: Download a copy of your book and read it. It\u2019s poorly edited, appallingly typeset and it\u2019s page format is\u2026 well\u2026 catastrophically, unbelievably bad for most of the book. If you want people to take your well-made points seriously, take your book seriously. If you can not be bothered, your readership won\u2019t be either. Readability Rating: (2.5/5) - \u2013 - Overall Rating (2.3/5) If you want to know about the \u2018Occupy\u2019 movement and why there is a growing dissent across the globe toward \u2018Capitalism\u2019, the information in this book is for you. If you love story, character, and emotional impact, chose paint drying instead. ...more A unique experience \u2013 a page turner with a message. extremely well written and flows very well from each chapter to another Corpalism is an extremely and fastinatingly interesting book that I can't even begin to describe. This is the type of book that it won't matter what I say because Corpalism is a book that will give each reader their own perspective and their own opinions. As it should, but with one main focus. Just give it ago. I also delete ebooks but this one is a keeper. Okay, I'm going to level with you here... As an Irish person there were times when reading that in my imagination I leapt up on a chair & screamed \"TASTE OF YOUR OWN MEDICINE, BITCHES!!?\" But really that wouldn't be in the least bit helpful. & I wasn't brought up that way. ;) & I understand I could be setting myself up for abuse in saying ^^^ that. But I'm just being honest. Having your identity eroded is a horrible, & at times frightening experience to live through. It's one I wo Okay, I'm going to level with you here... As an Irish person there were times when reading that in my imagination I leapt up on a chair & screamed \"TASTE OF YOUR OWN MEDICINE, BITCHES!!?\" But really that wouldn't be in the least bit helpful. & I wasn't brought up that way. ;) & I understand I could be setting myself up for abuse in saying ^^^ that. But I'm just being honest. Having your identity eroded is a horrible, & at times frightening experience to live through. It's one I wouldn't wish on anyone. The feeling of loss runs to your core. So I get how you feel, Mr <---A>Arun D. Ellis</---A>. I empathise with the passion of your words & the fight rising in your belly as the world you've known seems to slip through your fingers. When I was at school, during the 1980s & 90s we weren't allowed to learn Irish. Imagine that for just a second... We were taught British history, Kings & Queens, & the empire. Nothing of the soil under our feet. This wrenching away of national identity can have a strange effect on people. It perforates your sense of self, leaving you malformed & frankly sick. Where you are from, your roots, your traditions, they make you who you are in this world. This was not a comfortable book to read. At times I wanted to just walk away from it, but I didn't & I'm glad I didn't. I will be recommending it to others, absolutely. It forces you the think. As difficult as that can sometimes be it slaps you square in the face with a dark reality that is peeking with ugly possibility just over the horizon. ...more Corpalism is a science fiction political commentary that focuses a lot of the economic situation that we are currently dealing with and its repercussions. It is told through many view points and from different points in time. First off, let me say that I like the message Ellis is trying to present. He puts out a lot of ideas and makes a lot of interesting points that are worth thinking about. However, the message overrides the story line. It is full of too much preaching and not enough character Corpalism is a science fiction political commentary that focuses a lot of the economic situation that we are currently dealing with and its repercussions. It is told through many view points and from different points in time. First off, let me say that I like the message Ellis is trying to present. He puts out a lot of ideas and makes a lot of interesting points that are worth thinking about. However, the message overrides the story line. It is full of too much preaching and not enough character and plot development. As it reads now, I think Ellis should have written a non-fiction book and gave an overview of the current economic and political situation and what he thinks it may lead to. It's true that fiction has advantages, because people are more likely to accept new ideas, but then it should read like fiction. There are pages and pages of one character explaining their ideas and the situation. Honestly, it's thinly-veiled proselytizing. This book does switch between different characters and time periods. There are some story lines that connect nicely with each other; however, for many of them, I felt that there should have been stronger connections drawn between the different characters and situations. If you're interested in politics and worried about the direction our economic and political system is taking, Corpalism will naturally be of interest to you. And Ellis really does make good points, but don't expect a strong story or intricate developments. *I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.* ...more Very grateful for this recommendation - I enjoyed every part of the book. Some of them may have seemed less enticing, interesting or even unnecessary for the story as a whole but nevertheless, it was an amazing and fulfilling experience. I was not concerned about the size of the book - if I like a book, I only wish for more pages... The arguments and ideas were clear, and the use of current topics refreshing. Put this in my Read Again collection on kindle, and it may well find its way into my Fav Very grateful for this recommendation - I enjoyed every part of the book. Some of them may have seemed less enticing, interesting or even unnecessary for the story as a whole but nevertheless, it was an amazing and fulfilling experience. I was not concerned about the size of the book - if I like a book, I only wish for more pages... The arguments and ideas were clear, and the use of current topics refreshing. Put this in my Read Again collection on kindle, and it may well find its way into my Favourites, i.e. books I can read anytime and anywhere and would not want to part with. ...more This book is very good, but the size is intimidating. For anyone who does not like to read long books this book is broken into parts. Each part is like one book or a part or a series. Part one: I loved this part of the book. The characters are exciting and the plot is developed in a way that was almost scary, because it seemed very realistic. Pare one is almost like a wakeup call or a vision of what the future could be. The author uses actual historical events to make the theories and occurrence This book is very good, but the size is intimidating. For anyone who does not like to read long books this book is broken into parts. Each part is like one book or a part or a series. Part one: I loved this part of the book. The characters are exciting and the plot is developed in a way that was almost scary, because it seemed very realistic. Pare one is almost like a wakeup call or a vision of what the future could be. The author uses actual historical events to make the theories and occurrences in the story easier to relate to. Part two: When I started this part of the book it did not seem to fit with the first part of the book at all. The story being told is a completely different story, but the concept behind the story is the same. Part two can stand alone as a complete book. The concept(s) being expressed are very shocking and some are intriguing. The story made me think about all the things that occur in life that I simply accept without question or without even thinking about it. I also stopped to consider what would happen to a person if that person voiced every private thought. What would the world be like if there was a device that read thoughts and we could be prosecuted for our thoughts? Part Three: This story is a little strange to me. The concept remains the same, but the characters and method used to present the authors perspective just does not seem to work for me. I had a hard time trying to figure out if the author was trying to be humorous while presenting a serious story, or if the story was just not my style. Still the concept is very intriguing. Part four: This section is very short. It continues the story from previous parts. Part five: It is nice to have the characters return. The author brings unique writing and storytelling together to create a compelling story which truly is an eye opening experience to read. After reading all the sections I would have to say the first section is the most captivating. The second section is good, and from there, my interest started to dwindle. I do not know if it was because the story was so long, or because the author lost stem so to speak. The remaining sections did not seem as well written. ...more Corpalism is an impressive effect. Whether you think it is a successful effort may depend on your socio-political viewpoint, but it shouldn't. Arun D, Ellis has taken events in our present such as 9/11, the Great Recession and more and puts them into his version of a near-future dystopia. It is not a future that is hard to believe. Most of the author's views (he relies on the Occupy movement ideology quite heavily) I agree with. Some, especially the 9/11 conspiracy theories, I do not agree with. Corpalism is an impressive effect. Whether you think it is a successful effort may depend on your socio-political viewpoint, but it shouldn't. Arun D, Ellis has taken events in our present such as 9/11, the Great Recession and more and puts them into his version of a near-future dystopia. It is not a future that is hard to believe. Most of the author's views (he relies on the Occupy movement ideology quite heavily) I agree with. Some, especially the 9/11 conspiracy theories, I do not agree with. His main theme involves the idea of a corporate run state which is trampling on our freedom while benefiting only the rich and powerful. As I said, not hard to believe. Ellis has so many monologues espousing this theme throughout the book that I'm tempted to call it an \"Anti-Atlas Shrugged\" as he is attempting the same type of ideological novel but with a 180 degree slant and in almost as many pages. There are five parts, all written with varying degrees of success. The first part is the best and follows Terry Jones as he is relegated to a forced job and relocation in a ghetto type environment where he will spend the rest of his life working off his debts. The author has a bit of Python-esque wit throughout which help alleviate some of the eventual seriousness. We find that not everything is as it seems and that is where the tale has its nice twists and turns. The second part involves the reappearance of a missing celebrity and her new habit of telling it the way it is. Both of these segments are quite good. The third part is essentially a dialogue in a club and for me was the weakest section. Section 4 and 5 brings together the first three parts. But by now it gets a little preachy and redundant. That is the weak point in this novel. It could have easily been shorter. Also, the author adds many details to his message that it weakens the essential points. It could have used a more focused approach. Yet it is a fascinating read and does make you think about our own global situation. Whether you agree with what he says or not, I think you will admit that, overall, this is a good effort designed to both entertain and educate. ...more I am unsure if I had the abridged edition or not, having downloaded the book to my kindle on an 'offer' day by the author, so costing me nothing. Frankly, if it was the abridged version I want to know because I loved this book and I want to buy the full edition! This book will inspire political and social debate. It is written in a very accessible manner, and took several twists that I did not see coming. All of the characters are well-rounded and flawed in a very relateable way. The first sectio I am unsure if I had the abridged edition or not, having downloaded the book to my kindle on an 'offer' day by the author, so costing me nothing. Frankly, if it was the abridged version I want to know because I loved this book and I want to buy the full edition! This book will inspire political and social debate. It is written in a very accessible manner, and took several twists that I did not see coming. All of the characters are well-rounded and flawed in a very relateable way. The first section of the book seemed to end abruptly, leading me to wonder which edition I had, but this did not spoil my enjoyment in any way. Rather, it led me to draw my own conclusions inspired by the in-depth nuance elicited in the prose. I found myself nodding in agreement and smiling that someone has written such an informative and insightful book. It seemed prescient of our current political situation and the potential for our society to reach such a dystopia is all too possible. I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys political thrillers, inspiring debate or simply a really good story written well. ...more Very interesting book filled with conspiracy theories about the Western world from a British angle. So if you are looking for a quick understanding o the underlying British rumble about the economy, NHS, women rights, xenophobia then look no further. The book will give you all the alternate popular thought streams in a neat package. It's very good to read such material so at the least you will know. Some of the justifications and alternate reasoning was pretty interesting, especially about the b Very interesting book filled with conspiracy theories about the Western world from a British angle. So if you are looking for a quick understanding o the underlying British rumble about the economy, NHS, women rights, xenophobia then look no further. The book will give you all the alternate popular thought streams in a neat package. It's very good to read such material so at the least you will know. Some of the justifications and alternate reasoning was pretty interesting, especially about the banking crises and women rights. Although the Muslim terrorist bit was a bit disingenuous. But I guess you cannot expect an author to know everything about everything I guess. ...more I wanted to like this book...I really did. The first two parts, while in need of some tough editing to cut some parts where it waffles out, had the premise of a good idea for a story. Part three defeated me completely. It was all over the place, confusing and I have no idea why it was there. I gave up and stopped reading after a while. Books like this are why authors need to get a good and professional proofreader and editor before they publish...it makes it tougher for all the other independant I wanted to like this book...I really did. The first two parts, while in need of some tough editing to cut some parts where it waffles out, had the premise of a good idea for a story. Part three defeated me completely. It was all over the place, confusing and I have no idea why it was there. I gave up and stopped reading after a while. Books like this are why authors need to get a good and professional proofreader and editor before they publish...it makes it tougher for all the other independant authors to stand a chance. ...more I loved this book because it achieves two things. It's a gripping story that covers something like twenty years and it's a political and economic manual. It tells you how the 1% are going to take everything and what we the 99% will end up with. It's also scary because it has an inescapable inevitability about it. very good read thought provoking and well writen This is a fascinating book written with some sense of fun yet burdened with the seriousness of the current course of human events, particularly the socio-political condition in the United Kingdom. The author believes that there is a dystopian future that is almost inevitable unless huge effort is undertaken to make changes. The table of contents indicates that there are three volumes within this book; there are actually five. In the first volume The New World Order, which takes up almost half of This is a fascinating book written with some sense of fun yet burdened with the seriousness of the current course of human events, particularly the socio-political condition in the United Kingdom. The author believes that there is a dystopian future that is almost inevitable unless huge effort is undertaken to make changes. The table of contents indicates that there are three volumes within this book; there are actually five. In the first volume The New World Order, which takes up almost half of the book, we are treated to an action thriller based on the lives of some of those orphaned in an event twenty years earlier. There are ominous overtones of a world very like that of Orwell's 1984 but written, in many parts, with more \"fun\" than Orwell's unrelievedly grim world-view. Unfortunately, the author does not structure his thoughts well and the thriller sections are bogged down by large passages of speechifying. Conspiracy theories regarding government /upper-class manipulation clog up the telling of an otherwise good story. The dialogue is usually lively but is too often preachy. Thereafter the author's shaping of this book seems to falter. His ideas take on a life of their own, there is much that read like free association into conspiracy theories of current events (the subjugation of the 99 percent by the one percent, what happened to the Occupy movement, etc.) or more or less well remembered bits of popular culture. The whole of volume 2, The Resurrection of Stephanie White, is only tenuously connected with volume 1. Of the remaining volumes, only volume 3 Down the Dog and Duck appears in the table of Contents. Volume 4, The Reunion, and volume 5, From Democracy to Dictatorship, somehow have been lost, though they do appear in the Table of Contents that one would reach simply by paging from the cover onwards as opposed to via the Contents icon (odd). This reader must confess to bewilderment. It is possible there is method to this madness; if so, it is well hidden. What appears is a hodge-podge of ideas and events not integrated to the story line of volume 1--as if the author had given up and decided to throw in all the material he has gathered and challenges the reader to make of it what one will. This is a sorry state of affairs. ...more Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, and whether this author wrote the book on his own opinion, or thought it would make a great story, is up to him. The majority of the book is how brainwashed society is by the government, the powers that be, and the 1% of the upper crust and rich. The remaining 99% are brought up to believe they are better than their ancestors were in numerous ways, even though they have less spare money, less free time to spend with family and less of everything. Instead Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, and whether this author wrote the book on his own opinion, or thought it would make a great story, is up to him. The majority of the book is how brainwashed society is by the government, the powers that be, and the 1% of the upper crust and rich. The remaining 99% are brought up to believe they are better than their ancestors were in numerous ways, even though they have less spare money, less free time to spend with family and less of everything. Instead, they have bigger mortgages, bigger bills, etc. While I see nothing wrong with writing a story on that concept, I do have an issue with how LONG it is dragged out. On and on, over and over, by various groups of people, all trying to show others how to speak up and rebel against what you have been led to believe is how things are, based on the world today. The book is also written in 2 different styles. The first half of the book is written more like three short stories, each is it\u2019s own story, although some of the characters in the first volume appear later on. The second half is different groups of people and it juggles back and forth. In addition, one group of people is so irrelevant to the concept of the 99% vs. the 1%, it has nothing to do with the main concept. Overall, it\u2019s a unique point of view, but it should have been so much shorter. How many times and how many ways can you stress to stand up for yourself. After a while, you almost just skim the pages instead of actually reading the story. ...more I liked Corpalism for political discourse (and I somewhat agree with his political stance) but I thought it actually lacked character development. It's also an interesting/slightly disturbing mix of contemporary 'real' politics with science-fiction. Unlike 1985 and other political science-fiction books Ellis offers almost a direct assault on present day western-idealism and its hypocrisy rather than eluding to it. For me it uses emotive speech and fictional 'dystopia' too often to provide discus I liked Corpalism for political discourse (and I somewhat agree with his political stance) but I thought it actually lacked character development. It's also an interesting/slightly disturbing mix of contemporary 'real' politics with science-fiction. Unlike 1985 and other political science-fiction books Ellis offers almost a direct assault on present day western-idealism and its hypocrisy rather than eluding to it. For me it uses emotive speech and fictional 'dystopia' too often to provide discussion on the 'real life' Westernism and therefore becomes a little too preachy and obvious, though told from many view-points they all seem to actually just be the voice of the author which is sometimes the case for books that bridge fiction/non-fiction divide. ...more this is a fantastic read, for anyone who is even the least bit suspicious of the way the world works. split into three parts, you meet interesting - sometimes funny, sometimes incredibly annoying, but always with a purpose - characters. This book will leave you with a new sense of understanding, about people, about the government, about how the world works... And why we should question it all. I thoroughly recommend it. Although a bit long for my liking, this overall was a really good read. The book is in parts, and each part is different in style, the last bit gets a bit frustrating with all the jumping about but does get brought together in the end. Worrying to think that it is all within the realms of possibility, but very thought provoking. This is the story of how we let the 1% steal all the money in the world and they didn't even need a mask or gun, damn I really enjoyed the story or stories and the political bits really made me think but not my usual read 4 stars for the message of this book. I really liked what the author was getting at in this one regarding the socio-political commentary and I tend to agree with a lot of what he had to say. 3 stars for the book as a whole. I really got into the first part. I thought that section was pretty stellar writing-wise, and I read through it fast. However, the other parts didn't really go together too well for me, and I felt as if the message of the book was being beaten over my head repeatedly throughou 4 stars for the message of this book. I really liked what the author was getting at in this one regarding the socio-political commentary and I tend to agree with a lot of what he had to say. 3 stars for the book as a whole. I really got into the first part. I thought that section was pretty stellar writing-wise, and I read through it fast. However, the other parts didn't really go together too well for me, and I felt as if the message of the book was being beaten over my head repeatedly throughout the rest, saying 'come on and get it, don't ya get it?' and I at times I was yelling at my kindle saying 'I DO get it, you can stop now, thank you very much.' As you can tell I love a book with subtleties and metaphors more so then message beatings. Plus, there could of been a lot more editing and shortening of certain parts, especially at the end. All in all, an interesting read where the first part is much better then the other parts, but I do thank Lizzie for recommending this one to me because I probably wouldn't of discovered it on my own. ...more I was made aware that this book was presently free on Amazon and reading the synopsis thought it might be worth a read...luckily it was!! it's a book of two parts really,the first part focuses on a future Britain where individual rights have been taken away and the mass populous lie in debt..which isn't too far from where we are today but the book makes this point by using the second part to use current and imagined events to point the origin of the grim future. it's a book which anyone with any u I was made aware that this book was presently free on Amazon and reading the synopsis thought it might be worth a read...luckily it was!! it's a book of two parts really,the first part focuses on a future Britain where individual rights have been taken away and the mass populous lie in debt..which isn't too far from where we are today but the book makes this point by using the second part to use current and imagined events to point the origin of the grim future. it's a book which anyone with any understanding of UK politics would follow and though it retreats areas I have read before it does show by adding a fictional element ensuring that it is plot driven rather than statistical conjecture. the first part of the book deals with twists and turns and is possibly the more engaging section..I think the reason the second part engaged me less was purely as I had read much of the debate before or held similar views to some of the characters so learnt or engaged less...that said the narrative was still enjoyable enough and I was pleased I came across this book. ...more If ever I misjudged a book by it's cover or title, this would be it. Being less than 80p as a Kindle download, further raised my scepticism. However, it being recommended by a friend I put aside the doubts & was hooked from the first page. A lengthy book (hence the 4 stars), although split into sections which made the reading easier. Based in the UK in the near future, Corpalism describes the hidden agendas of a world controlled by government & the wealthy. At times I found it chilling, g If ever I misjudged a book by it's cover or title, this would be it. Being less than 80p as a Kindle download, further raised my scepticism. However, it being recommended by a friend I put aside the doubts & was hooked from the first page. A lengthy book (hence the 4 stars), although split into sections which made the reading easier. Based in the UK in the near future, Corpalism describes the hidden agendas of a world controlled by government & the wealthy. At times I found it chilling, given the changes happening in our current political system & the impact it's having on society. Not so much a read to find escapism, but definitely a fascinating and thought-provoking book. ...more Well, wow. 3.5 stars It's a LOT of information, this book. It's a large number of suppositions carried to seemingly-outlandish-but-actually-completely-logical conclusions, each meticulously researched. My mind is still kind of reeling...will try to more thoroughly review at a later date. I will say that he could have used a punctuation expert, especially in the first part, but truly throughout the book. Honestly, though, that's a bit of a nitpick. It's a strong effort and truly made me think. I won' Well, wow. 3.5 stars It's a LOT of information, this book. It's a large number of suppositions carried to seemingly-outlandish-but-actually-completely-logical conclusions, each meticulously researched. My mind is still kind of reeling...will try to more thoroughly review at a later date. I will say that he could have used a punctuation expert, especially in the first part, but truly throughout the book. Honestly, though, that's a bit of a nitpick. It's a strong effort and truly made me think. I won't say it changed my perspective because I agree with the majority of the ideas, but it added some depth to it. ...more I would call Corpalism a fiction book with a strong non-fiction theme running through it. The length may be a bit off-putting but for a book that spans twenty years, you can see why it is so long. The majority of the book talks about the government brainwashing society, being brainwashed about how much better off they are compared to generations before them even though they have less money, less free time on their hands and bigger bills to pay. A well written book, one that really makes you thin I would call Corpalism a fiction book with a strong non-fiction theme running through it. The length may be a bit off-putting but for a book that spans twenty years, you can see why it is so long. The majority of the book talks about the government brainwashing society, being brainwashed about how much better off they are compared to generations before them even though they have less money, less free time on their hands and bigger bills to pay. A well written book, one that really makes you think about society and politics. ...more Not something I would usually read but found it really interesting, makes you look at things in a different way. Found it quite easy to read even though it is a long book. Looks at certain conspiracy theories some true and some fiction I must admit at times I wasn't sure which were which!! Would certainly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in politics but also anyone that wants to read something modern that is a little different. Really enjoyed reading this A book in 5 parts. The last part is first and the first is last. The rest is all mixed up. It has a thick plot running all the way through which is easy to forget as you immerse yourself in the many story lines. As for plot, it's where we are today in a corrupt corporate society and where we will be when the rich own everything. Needless to say I loved it. Needless to say others hate it. I leave you to choose your side. A book that gives you the feeling you have gained a degree by reading it! Whats it about? The worst you can imagine about how society is run and its demise. Karl Popper eat your heart out. Dystopia, or is it a reflection of where our society is heading right now. There are several parts (volumes) to this book which were brilliant in themselves although I feel each would have been served better with their own story to tell as their own book. I don\u2019t think they gel together very well as I got tota A book that gives you the feeling you have gained a degree by reading it! Whats it about? The worst you can imagine about how society is run and its demise. Karl Popper eat your heart out. Dystopia, or is it a reflection of where our society is heading right now. There are several parts (volumes) to this book which were brilliant in themselves although I feel each would have been served better with their own story to tell as their own book. I don\u2019t think they gel together very well as I got totally confused with Volumes 2 and 3 and how they fitted in. So ,we start with organised anarchy in the boro\u2019s (the ghettos of unemployed and dissident people) where millions live outside of the wealthy cities. There is a detailed breakdown of how the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, and how those in-between become so debt ridden they are stuck in the middle forever. But wait..the more the structure of society is explained the more complex and convoluted it becomes. Throw in the fact that someone is double crossing someone who is double crossing someone else who is\u2026you get the picture, and you are well on your way to understanding society, economics, and politics but not a lot else. Volume 1; Terry gets sent to the boro as punishment for tardiness at work, but all is not what it seems. Anarchy is provoked to mobilise the millions to rise up against the system. Volume 2, totally threw me..was I still reading the same novel, is it a book of short stories? Delores returns after 40 days and 40 nights having no idea she was missing and starts spouting on about the unfair justice of the structure of society at every opportunity she gets. So, the theme is the same the characters are not. Is she mad like they all think she is, or is she correct in what she is saying? What did happen to her? By now I have completely forgotten about Terry and Volume 1, but am totally immersed in Delores and Volume 2 when it ends. Volume 3 and we were in a pub all dressed in fancy dress discussing, guess what? Yes, society and the individual. Throw in some history and religion and here we go again. And so it goes on. Did I like it? I love the sharp wit in the narrative of this book which makes it well worth reading. It is a bit like being at University and sitting round in the refectory over burger, chips and coke discussing life, economics, politics and how society is driven by greed alone, and feeling very grown up. It is quite simply brilliant, encompassing all of the following: New world order Macro society managed by micro people \u201c...thats what they have achieved in their crazy desire to own all of the money. It\u2019s insane, they are insane\u2026they are economic psychopaths.\u201d Conspiracy theories Crime and kidnap Property law sexual orientation / monogamy terrorism threats Cold war: Russians and Middle east world economics, third world slavery, politics and philosophy The Church, Religious history, political morality religious vs society control \u201c\u2018...every other species is born free and lives free. We humans are born into economic slavery and life crippling dept.\u201d Royalty and ruling classes Inequality, sexism and feminism Talent shows (with Sam Cowbell HAHA!) and facebook Gods vs evolution World history class domination Football and teamwork ruining creativity \u201c\u2026who can only play \u2018pass and go\u2019 football which is what we\u2019ve got today, its all just \u2018pass and go\u2019, in tight triangles. \" People: gays transexuals, pretty, plain, fat, thin, white, black, super heroes, victims, Muslims, Christians, Jews Funny and brilliantly thought out and explained but by Volume 3 I was all lectured out and my brain was fried. Coming up to an election in the UK this makes a great read\u2026 Q. who would I vote for after reading it? A. No point in voting society is following a path to becoming doomed already. Now for the bombshell\u2026. .I just couldn\u2019t finish reading the last part of the book because Ellis' brilliance overwhelmed me and it just got too much. I still give it 4 stars. ...more<---C>Arun D. Ellis</---C>", "Title": "Corpalism"},
