{"Comments": "<+++>I Will Wait for You: Eternal Bliss</+++>PAY ATTENTION TO THE WHISPERS YOU THINK YOU HEAR! The ultimate expression of human longing,<---M> short and sweet</---M>, magical and completely captivating, I WILL WAIT FOR YOU is simply delightful! The subject matter fascinates me. Like many great books, this one defies categorization. This book isn't for everyone due to the subject matter, but...the narration of this novel grips the reader first from the beginning, then its beautiful descriptions of Colorado and Ireland place you in Alexandra and Sid's sho PAY ATTENTION TO THE WHISPERS YOU THINK YOU HEAR! The ultimate expression of human longing, short and sweet, magical and completely captivating, I WILL WAIT FOR YOU is simply delightful! The subject matter fascinates me. Like many great books, this one defies categorization. This book isn't for everyone due to the subject matter, but...the narration of this novel grips the reader first from the beginning, then its beautiful descriptions of Colorado and Ireland place you in Alexandra and Sid's shoes. A magical journey where every human being speculates, imagines, questions and prays for, weaves us a marvelous story. This story has such an esoteric and haunting quality that it would be a crime not to let oneself be captivated by it. A truly \"Timeless Romance\", the ecstasy of love and the tragedy that it seems only fleeting on earth gives us hope that the \"real thing\" does last, not only on earth but forever. If you are enchanted with rapturous euphoric love, you will enjoy this book many times over. I have never read a book which made me feel the main characters' hopes and desires as strongly as if they were my own. I was wondrously lost in each page. Is Sid's death ultimately the only way for these unrequited lovers to be reunited? This is a beautifully poignant love story in which the longing they have for each other is palpable. A bittersweet sadness permeates the later pages of this book, as Sid and Alexandra pass through life, each a shadow on the consciousness of the other. One only hopes that they find in the hereafter, what they were denied in this life. What one's desperation, coupled with the conviction of true love, can do to change everything you know about life. Pirrung writes to the heart and to the heart of the matter. The characters, the aura, this book was filled with tragedy, hope, determination, and especially a lot of LOVE. This is one of the reasons that I like Pirrung's work so much, I know I am always in for a ride. Sid finds that life, as he knew it, had irrevocably changed and turned out to be the catalyst that changed his immediate reality. The effect that this has on him, his life, and those whom he loves is what gives the book its substance. It is this altered reality, however, that makes his new life more meaningful and bearable. The ending delivered a great twist that left me speechless but with a sense of satisfaction, bittersweet, to some, maybe, but beautiful, euphoric and ultimately romantic to me. The characters are alive and real; the settings are irresistible and enchanting. The great disappointment to me was that when the book was over, I had no magical way to stay in the world it created for me....<---F>except to read it again</---F>. The author is good at prodding the reader to look past familiar, past assumptions and expectations, to try to see, like turning black and white into Technicolor, like going from numb to feeling and experiencing. She produced a sense of euphoria, a sense that everything will be okay, no fear, a sense that when we die God will REALLY be there, waiting with all of our loved ones and that LOVE WILL NEVER DIE!! Pirrung has a gift for \"What if\" kind of stories that are evocative of daydreams that somehow seem possible. I wouldn't dismiss this book because it is listed under \"fantasy\" or because it is a love story or because it could be listed under \"paranormal\". It is so much more than any one genre. It is a short and sweet, relatively simple pick-me-up, a book of hope and dreams come true, a lesson we have been taught in church all of our lives, life and love are ever lasting. If you are a hopeless romantic, this one is for you! I see life in a whole different light. Pay attention to whispers you \"think\" you hear! ...more I WILL WAIT FOR YOU \u2013 REVIEW - I WILL WAIT FOR YOU is a lovely, touching and sweet little book and one of the best and most charming spiritual stories I\u2019ve read in a while. I reread the ending many times with a sniffle every time. I liked how there was a picture painted so beautifully about the afterlife and the points about living life were inspiring. Sydney and Alexandra\u2019s journey was masterful in the way the spiritual aspect of their bond was portrayed. I got chills. There were funny places he I WILL WAIT FOR YOU \u2013 REVIEW - I WILL WAIT FOR YOU is a lovely, touching and sweet little book and one of the best and most charming spiritual stories I\u2019ve read in a while. I reread the ending many times with a sniffle every time. I liked how there was a picture painted so beautifully about the afterlife and the points about living life were inspiring. Sydney and Alexandra\u2019s journey was masterful in the way the spiritual aspect of their bond was portrayed. I got chills. There were funny places here and there with the occasional revealed profound piece of wisdom. It is essentially the story about love and true bonding, not just a ghost story. --Charming, romantic and emotional -- Wish it were longer. ...more I was fascinated by this charming escape exploring in depth a world so unlike my own. There is a magical realism quality which encompasses this haunting tale. It is a bittersweet but at the same time so terribly romantic, reminiscent of Somewhere in Time and books in that caliber. This probably is not for everyone but I found it so satisfying in so many ways. After Alexandra\u2019s unexpected death it might surprise you how completely enjoyable this book is. I was sad, in a way to reach the last most I was fascinated by this charming escape exploring in depth a world so unlike my own. There is a magical realism quality which encompasses this haunting tale. It is a bittersweet but at the same time so terribly romantic, reminiscent of Somewhere in Time and books in that caliber. This probably is not for everyone but I found it so satisfying in so many ways. After Alexandra\u2019s unexpected death it might surprise you how completely enjoyable this book is. I was sad, in a way to reach the last most satisfying page. This is a hopeful, moving story, told with incredible sensitivity and depth. I give this book five stars. ...more Sidney Scofield and Alexandra Deveaux spent the first thirty years of their lives not feeling the necessity of being someone's \"other half.\" That changed dramatically the moment they met-\"they knew\"! From Colorado to Maryland to Ireland-the magic prevailed. Not even death could stop them from being together. She waited for him.He waited for her. \"\"Matt and Misha would be sad when they arrived but if only they knew the beauty of it.\" Beautiful sentiment. Loved it. Spiritual love story that makes u fall in love again n again and which inspires u to find the meaning of true happiness with ur soul-mate ... Happy Reading !! This novel won't please readers who are looking for quick action and thrills. It starts off with a very intriguing first person voice from heaven that pulled me right in and kept me completely awed. This one isn\u2019t for everyone but if you have a fascination with the spiritual part of life then this will thrill you to death. This is a relatively gentle novel which nevertheless prompts us to give serious thought to the morality of the decisions we make and our everlasting existence. The writing is This novel won't please readers who are looking for quick action and thrills. It starts off with a very intriguing first person voice from heaven that pulled me right in and kept me completely awed. This one isn\u2019t for everyone but if you have a fascination with the spiritual part of life then this will thrill you to death. This is a relatively gentle novel which nevertheless prompts us to give serious thought to the morality of the decisions we make and our everlasting existence. The writing is done quite well and is almost photographic. I was transported not only to another way of life in beautiful Ireland but also into another dimension where I could observe a three- dimensional world that was for all intense and purposes not supposed to be there. Love is everlasting. \u201cDying\u201d on earth is nothing more than leaving one road for another and the love we feel for someone continues on and we really never lose the people we love. This is a beautiful love story. ...more A beautiful, spiritual love story that makes you think and inspires you to find that special soul-mate that teaches you the meaning of the word \"joy\". Tears ahead and so worth the box of kleenex. Awe-inspiring! This is just the most beautiful love story. I love the characters and what they stand for. There is so much value in the characters and the story that every page I turned I was a part of their inspiring world and I felt almost euphoric. I was dreaming the most beautiful dream that I didn't want to wake up from. I wanted to be Alexandra and experience her sensuality and her love of life, beauty, quality, art, and Sid. One quote sticks in my mind that I totally related to, 'I've fou Awe-inspiring! This is just the most beautiful love story. I love the characters and what they stand for. There is so much value in the characters and the story that every page I turned I was a part of their inspiring world and I felt almost euphoric. I was dreaming the most beautiful dream that I didn't want to wake up from. I wanted to be Alexandra and experience her sensuality and her love of life, beauty, quality, art, and Sid. One quote sticks in my mind that I totally related to, 'I've found in you how terribly important it is to me that I'm completely known and understood.' That is so profound! Something that should be at the core of every relationship, that we all feel but never put into words is pushed aside because we're all too afraid to demand too much for ourselves. Connection, values, dignity, integrity, peace, validity, desire, inspiration, informative, are words that come to mind. The settings were painted so beautifully by the author's words that I had no trouble getting a full visual, as if this was a movie I was watching and the background places were very interesting and really added to the romance. This is a book I will read again and again. It's a great read! ...more Sidney Scofield and Alexandra Deveaux spent the first thirty years of their lives not feeling the necessity of being someone's \"other half.\" That changed dramatically the moment they met-\"they knew\"! From Colorado to Maryland to Ireland-the magic prevailed. Not even death could stop them from being together. She waited for him.He waited for her. \"\"Matt and Misha would be sad when they arrived but if only they knew the beauty of it.\" This is so different and mesmerizing somehow. I loved it. I love these spiritual books. Romantic...bittersweet love...Great visual experience. Believable paranormal experiences...exciting to me! What an engaging and enchanting book. I loved it from the beginning, from how cleverly the author flipped from first person, Alexandria, to first person, Sidney, to tell their magical tale\u2026. from Heaven. The mixture of romance, suspense and a peek into \u201clife ever-after\u201d gives readers more than they are looking for, a magical journey full of imagination, trepidation, and adventure. This is a story of a man\u2019s unwavering love and devotion to the woman he loves and the trials and anxiety they both m What an engaging and enchanting book. I loved it from the beginning, from how cleverly the author flipped from first person, Alexandria, to first person, Sidney, to tell their magical tale\u2026. from Heaven. The mixture of romance, suspense and a peek into \u201clife ever-after\u201d gives readers more than they are looking for, a magical journey full of imagination, trepidation, and adventure. This is a story of a man\u2019s unwavering love and devotion to the woman he loves and the trials and anxiety they both must endure to be together. It is about human longing\u2026the seemingly impossible becomes possible. The depth of reality and feeling in this book is the essence that makes it believable and real. This book hit every note for me, leaving me with the message to live my life and enjoy every minute of it. This story was easily the definition of magical. The author does a nice job of analyzing life's major questions, and doesn\u2019t show restraint describing the suffering of loss. I enjoyed hopping on her fascinating train of thought. This book is on my re-read list\u2026I would have to agree with the majority of the reviews in that it certainly was an excellent and entertaining story, superbly paced and gripping in a magical world. The characters were fascinating, the setting exotic and the love story enthralling and heart warming from the beginning. It's the kind of book that makes you forget you're reading a book and transports you to another time and place. I recommend this lovely novel for people who love a story of adventure, bravery, and love that overcomes all obstacles. If you are looking for a book that is truly engaging and pulls at every emotion you've got, then don't hesitate. ...more Clearly unique! A good read, short and sweet, interesting...If you love a believable paranormal and enjoy peeks into the other side, you will enjoy this one. A spooky backdrop to a fantastic love story. REALLY ENJOYED! REMINDED ME OF \"SOMEWHERE IN TIME\"...one of my all-time favorite movies! Really enjoyed! Makes you think. Clever and actually believable. Grab your box of Kleenex! Very interesting. Awesome!<---A>Linda Masemore Pirrung</---A><---C>Linda Masemore Pirrung</---C><+++>I Will Wait for You: Eternal Bliss</+++>", "Title": "I Will Wait for You: Eternal Bliss"},
