{"Comments": "Gold\u2019s book is loosely based on the life of <---C>Charles Carter</---C>, a real magician. After reading his Wikipedia page, I appreciate that Gold was more than willing to stretch the historical facts for the amusement of the reader. The book starts off with the death (murder?) of one of the greatest presidents ever, Warren G. Harding, who could give any president a run for their money in the floozie and corruption departments.<---F> Carter is somehow implicated</---F>. Boyhood trauma propels Carter into magic and onto the Gold\u2019s book is loosely based on the life of Charles Carter, a real magician. After reading his Wikipedia page, I appreciate that Gold was more than willing to stretch the historical facts for the amusement of the reader. The book starts off with the death (murder?) of one of the greatest presidents ever, Warren G. Harding, who could give any president a run for their money in the floozie and corruption departments. Carter is somehow implicated. Boyhood trauma propels Carter into magic and onto the vaudeville stage and eventually, his own traveling magic show. His involvement with Harding enmeshes him in a deadly conspiracy involving secret societies, the government and big business. There are plenty of real life people who also make an appearance throughout the book including,<---M> The Marx Brothers</---M>, Houdini and Philo Farnsworth (the inventor of TV). Like any good illusionist worth his salt, Gold is expert at misdirecting the reader with literary sleight of hand. Seeming unrelated and unremarkable doings are used as diversions only to be of consequence later in the book. Bonus : How to make an elephant disappear! Revealed!!! Aside from the pulpy, dashing, derring-do, what made this an interesting read were the \u201cI-wish-I-had-said/written-that-passage and Gold\u2019s talent to take an extraordinary story and build it with relatable, ordinary moments. Recommended for historical fiction fans or anyone interested in literary wizardry. ...more Other reviews here go into the details of this wonderful novel, so if that's what you want, go read them. I'll just tell you what I knew before I went into it, which was pretty much nothing. My friend Yuri gave me this book about 5 years ago. I was intimidated by its length, so I put it on the shelf and never opened it. Then, last year, my friend Ben gave it to me with a few other books for my 40th birthday, part of a collection he said were some of the best books he'd ever read. Anne and I took a Other reviews here go into the details of this wonderful novel, so if that's what you want, go read them. I'll just tell you what I knew before I went into it, which was pretty much nothing. My friend Yuri gave me this book about 5 years ago. I was intimidated by its length, so I put it on the shelf and never opened it. Then, last year, my friend Ben gave it to me with a few other books for my 40th birthday, part of a collection he said were some of the best books he'd ever read. Anne and I took a Secret Vacation, and I wanted something to read, so I brought this with me. It was long enough to last a week, and was an actual book, so it wouldn't be a big deal if it got wet or sandy or vacationed on. I started it on the airplane before we took off, and read it for almost 6 straight hours. Then, I read it about 100 pages per day until I finished it this afternoon. Total days reading it? Five or six. All I knew going into it was that two people who I respect were crazy about it, and that it was historical fiction about a great magician, so that's all I'm going to give you. I will tell you that I loved it, loved every word and every page and every single thing about it I am so glad I read it, and wish I could read it all over again for the first time. Pick up a copy -- I strongly recommend the dead tree version -- and read it for about 20 pages. I'm pretty sure you'll be on board by then, and if you're not, maybe it just isn't for you ... but I suspect you'll love it as much as I did. ...more A Conversation I had earlier, Friend: \"So what are you reading.\" Me: \"Carter Beats The Devil, it's about a master magician battling a shadowy conglomerate of the government, corporations, and secret societies to find the truth about president Harding's death with the help of his pet lion.\" Friend: \"... There's no part of that sentence that doesn't appeal to me.\" There is a word for this book and it is awesome. A big thank you to Natalie for bringing this to my attention. It's so rare to have a book that I just can't wait to get back to reading. I always have a book with me (usually several in my car, as noted by certain friends of mine who can't help but comment on the apartment-like state of my vehicle), but then there's the one that leaps to the fore and all the other 'currently reading' titles are consigned, literally, to the back seat. <+++>Carter Beats the Devil</+++> is fun from the beginning. Gold has a knack for characters and for dialogue, and even the back story It's so rare to have a book that I just can't wait to get back to reading. I always have a book with me (usually several in my car, as noted by certain friends of mine who can't help but comment on the apartment-like state of my vehicle), but then there's the one that leaps to the fore and all the other 'currently reading' titles are consigned, literally, to the back seat. <+++>Carter Beats the Devil</+++> is fun from the beginning. Gold has a knack for characters and for dialogue, and even the back story is interesting, rather than just poorly drummed-up filler to explain motivations. His pacing is perfect, like that of the showman he writes about. Some of the highest praise I can give is that it made me want to research characters and events to learn more about his source material. Finally, if that's not reason enough to love this story, it has one of the best lines ever uttered in a disagreement between brothers: \"Oh, dear God, you don't actually have a brain, do you, it's more a filigreed spiderweb, with little chambers in it where trained monkeys play the pipe organ.\" Brilliant. ...more \"Basically Dan Brown with magicians\" is what I wish had been written on the cover, so I would have known not to read this. Based to some degree on the real life of the magician Carter the Great, it also includes (sigh) references to the Illuminati and Skull and Bones, and some fanciful ideas about the last days of President Harding, who was apparently a real guy. It's suggested that Houdini was gay, a claim I can find zero supporting evidence for online. About the only things I trusted were the \"Basically Dan Brown with magicians\" is what I wish had been written on the cover, so I would have known not to read this. Based to some degree on the real life of the magician Carter the Great, it also includes (sigh) references to the Illuminati and Skull and Bones, and some fanciful ideas about the last days of President Harding, who was apparently a real guy. It's suggested that Houdini was gay, a claim I can find zero supporting evidence for online. About the only things I trusted were the (weirdly persistent) jokes about Pez. The whole thing is pretty amateurishly written, and Gold has only the barest control over his plot. The romantic bits are especially wince-worthy; this is a book given to sentences like \"It had taken Carter all these tours to realize his most fragile prop was his heart.\" Despite all this shittiness, the book rolls along in an adequately entertaining way: it's about fuckin' magic; even the most hapless treatment of magic is bound to be fitfully fun. (Get it? Bound? Oh, forget it.) But the whole thing is really immature, honestly. Immature. ...more A friend gave it to me years ago. I figured eventually I had to read it, like you do. On page 67 I threw it at the wall. It's about magic, which is not very interesting to read about. Or to see for that matter. Magic is very annoying - it's not real you know, it's just a lot of tricks. I like it when they chop a person up and have parts of them in boxes spread around the stage - head there, feet way over there - but that's about it. Likewise with Harry Potter, every one of which I've seen on the A friend gave it to me years ago. I figured eventually I had to read it, like you do. On page 67 I threw it at the wall. It's about magic, which is not very interesting to read about. Or to see for that matter. Magic is very annoying - it's not real you know, it's just a lot of tricks. I like it when they chop a person up and have parts of them in boxes spread around the stage - head there, feet way over there - but that's about it. Likewise with Harry Potter, every one of which I've seen on the big screen with my daughter. A whole lot of firework displays and running about with a few nice monsters. Give me Lord of the Rings any day, at least that has a story along with the creatures. ...more Carter Beats the Devil was set up superbly. I loved the way in which <---A>Glen David Gold</---A> really brought the early years of Carter alive and how these early childhood experiences influenced the magician he was to become. There was a pretty hefty amount of research undertaken in this project, and Gold really captures the atmosphere of the 1920's, with magicians vying to outdo each-other at every step. Unfortunately, for me, what followed this impressive start, quickly descended into a confusing tangle Carter Beats the Devil was set up superbly. I loved the way in which Glen David Gold really brought the early years of Carter alive and how these early childhood experiences influenced the magician he was to become. There was a pretty hefty amount of research undertaken in this project, and Gold really captures the atmosphere of the 1920's, with magicians vying to outdo each-other at every step. Unfortunately, for me, what followed this impressive start, quickly descended into a confusing tangle of plot lines and characters.I can't help but feel that Gold wasn't sure if he was writing a fictionalised biography or a mystery novel. At times I felt large sections of the narrative suffered from over exposition. For me the story lacked focus, with too much time spend on accessory characters, and not enough on the story of Carter, which was built up superbly in the first section. To his credit, Gold writes some pretty tense and exciting scenes, but unfortunately he'd lost me well before the impressive finale. For me this story had so much promise, but it was lost on distracting side stories which I found confusing, indulgent and unnecessary. ...more This is one of my favorite books of all time. I started it on a plane to D.C. and couldn't put it down- I stayed up all night when I got there until it was finished. It's historical fiction in the best sense and touches on so many things that fascinate me: the invention of television by Phil T. Farnsworth (see \"The Boy Who Invented Television\"), the Secret Service (see \"Starling of the White House\"), turn-of-the-century magicians (see \"Houdini!!!,\" \"Hiding the Elephant,\" and \"Kellar's Wonders\"), This is one of my favorite books of all time. I started it on a plane to D.C. and couldn't put it down- I stayed up all night when I got there until it was finished. It's historical fiction in the best sense and touches on so many things that fascinate me: the invention of television by Phil T. Farnsworth (see \"The Boy Who Invented Television\"), the Secret Service (see \"Starling of the White House\"), turn-of-the-century magicians (see \"Houdini!!!,\" \"Hiding the Elephant,\" and \"Kellar's Wonders\"), and the history of my hometown, Oakland (see \"Oakland: Story of a City\"). Full of mystery and adventure as well as historical fact, this is a MUST read. ...more This book took me longer than it should have. Partly I guess it was my fault, but partly also the book's. This is not a fast paced read, as I always hope big books to be. Nevertheless, this is a fun book, with intriguing characters, an unpredictable story, many twists and turns that have you at the edge of your seat. There is a mix of action, character's past unraveling and magical shows. I really liked the way this book was written, despite it being slow. I liked how so many of the character's we This book took me longer than it should have. Partly I guess it was my fault, but partly also the book's. This is not a fast paced read, as I always hope big books to be. Nevertheless, this is a fun book, with intriguing characters, an unpredictable story, many twists and turns that have you at the edge of your seat. There is a mix of action, character's past unraveling and magical shows. I really liked the way this book was written, despite it being slow. I liked how so many of the character's were introduced and that you never got more information than you were supposed to have. In this aspect the author really played the role of the magician, never revealing everything to you. ...more This is a thrilling, romantic, fascinating book and will probably be my favorite book read this year. Carter Beats the Devil is a historically fact-based novel about magician Charles Carter who performed in the golden age of magic (1890s thru the 1920s). This story pits Carter against rival magicians and Secret Service agents who suspect Carter had a hand in the death of President Harding. I was drawn in from the get-go. This book is full of suspense, humor, and panache. It came highly recommend This is a thrilling, romantic, fascinating book and will probably be my favorite book read this year. Carter Beats the Devil is a historically fact-based novel about magician Charles Carter who performed in the golden age of magic (1890s thru the 1920s). This story pits Carter against rival magicians and Secret Service agents who suspect Carter had a hand in the death of President Harding. I was drawn in from the get-go. This book is full of suspense, humor, and panache. It came highly recommended from Michael Chabon, author of the Pulitzer-prize-winning novel The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay (also an excellent book). Carter Beats the Devil is a richly imagined story full of wonderful characters and it has perhaps the most thrilling, exciting, whiz-bang conclusion I've come across in ages. Great, great book. ...more Magic, thriller, period - three specific strands and together they make for a great book. Set in the fictional world of 1920s magic, this references real people, such as Houdini, but the set-up is pure imagination. Funny, entertaining, nail-biting and genuinely heart-warming, this is one of those books that not that many people have read, but should be recommended to everyone! I love it! As a footnote, the author is Alice \"Lovely Bones\" Sebold's husband Great sprawling blockbuster about battling magicians that goes on too long. I liked it but began irritating me after awhile because it had that \"I wanna be a movie!\" vibe that also marred \"Da Vinci Code\" and \"Kavalier and Clay\". It's like the writer custom made the book for Robert Zemeckis or Barry Sonnenfeld to direct into a big budget movie. Thank God they didn't take the bait. Vaudeville is back. But don't look to the stage; look to the page. For the second time this month, the curtain is rising on a delightful novel about entertainment before television and movies. First, Elizabeth McCracken played the straight man in \"Niagara Falls All Over Again,\" the story of a Laurel and Hardy comedy team. Now - shazam! - Glen David Gold has revealed \"Carter Beats the Devil,\" an enormous historical novel about an early 20th-century magician. Although he's since vanished from the c Vaudeville is back. But don't look to the stage; look to the page. For the second time this month, the curtain is rising on a delightful novel about entertainment before television and movies. First, Elizabeth McCracken played the straight man in \"Niagara Falls All Over Again,\" the story of a Laurel and Hardy comedy team. Now - shazam! - Glen David Gold has revealed \"Carter Beats the Devil,\" an enormous historical novel about an early 20th-century magician. Although he's since vanished from the cultural memory (poof!), Charles Carter, who billed himself as \"Carter the Great,\" amazed audiences during the same time Harry Houdini was escaping from handcuffs and safes. (The book jacket reproduces a typically garish poster for one of Carter's shows in the 1920s.) Gold opens his debut novel with the death of President Harding. As the nation mourns, an investigation begins, starting with the magic show he attended the night before his passing. Aides knew their commander in chief was unwell and burdened by a horrible secret, but he had seemed so full of life when he volunteered for one of Carter's grand illusions. Allowing the president to participate in an act involving fire, guns, knives, cannons, and lions - ending with his dismemberment - seemed like a bad idea to Secret Service agent Jack Griffin. Having accidentally assisted President McKinley's assassin, Griffin is loath to take the rap for another presidential death, but Harding had insisted. The next day, as the news of his death spreads, Carter disappears, Harding is cremated, and his widow destroys a trove of evidence detailing more scandals than Bill Clinton could deny in eight years. Griffin finds himself battling his own department and a shadowy group of corporate thugs to track down the president's killer and his \"horrible secret.\" But no sooner do we see these acts of mayhem, magic, and mystery, than Gold whisks us back to Carter's childhood in San Francisco, recreated here in brilliant detail. \"From the moment Charles Carter the Fourth first learned it,\" Gold writes, \"magic was not an amusement, but a means of survival.\" Actually, Carter's struggle was more for identity than survival. His wealthy parents loved him, but had no time for him. Nevertheless, his mother conveyed a smattering of the new Freudian psychology and a large dose of appreciation for melodrama, tools more crucial to the future \"Weird Wonderful Wizard\" than any wand or rabbit. Assured that their son will head off to Yale in the fall, his parents send him touring as a Vaudeville magician. While Houdini is making $5,000 a week, Carter is \"devoured by fleas, his earnings are regularly stolen, and he returns to California smelling like a smoldering cheroot.\" Naturally, \"he loved every moment of it.\" He finally gets a small part in a show led by Colonel Mysterioso, a mustached villain so wonderfully classic that the book seems to shift into jerky black and white whenever he appears. (Keep an eye on his hideous little bald dog, too.) He stares daggers, tortures animals, and treats Carter with utter contempt. What's worse, he rules over Annabelle, \"the most fantastic furious female fighter ever to be tamed.\" During the show, she takes on a group of angry Indians. \"The crowd had never seen a woman who could fight before. They went wild.\" To Carter, whose \"most fragile prop was his heart,\" she's captivating - but forbidden. In a gambit to vanquish his foe with a wicked act of humiliation, Carter devises a lavish stage trick called \"Blackmail.\" Naturally, I can't give away the secret (Rule No. 1), but eventually, he beats Mysterioso, weds Annabelle, and enjoys performing with her around the world. Ah, but keep your eye on Gold's sleight of hand, ladies and gentlemen. When Carter's happiness is cut tragically short by a trick gone awry, he falls into the dark side of his trade, devising morbid, ambiguous illusions that leave audiences more unsettled than amazed. Nothing can cheer him or save his show until he meets a blind woman named Phoebe, who lives in a home for wayward girls funded by Francis Smith, the Borax millionaire and an early fan of Carter's. This is a sweet romance, drawn with charm and wit. He's distracted by guilt, but a woman who can't see his illusions is the perfect person to perceive the good man he really is. Too bad their happiness arrives as government and corporate assassins move in to bring the curtain down. Carter finds himself at the center of a scheme to gain control of a magical new technology that will transform the world (and ruin dinnertime). How can he possibly escape from this death-defying ordeal? As a real Carter poster once boasted, stay tuned for \"marvels that obfuscate the will, charm the imagination, confound intelligence!\" In the tradition of E.L. Doctorow's \"Ragtime,\" Gold weaves the rich history of this period through his own stagecraft, creating a novel worthy of the hype that announced those great Vaudeville magicians. This was, after all, a time of perpetual gasping at new scientific and consumer miracles. Behold - the X-ray! The vacuum cleaner! Carter and his colleagues levitated along that shifting line between fantasy and reality. In a book full of conjurers, Gold emerges as the best magician of all, pulling surprises out of his hat throughout this wildly entertaining story, which captures America in a moment of change and wonder. The third and final act alone is worth the price of admission, but I'd rather face the devil himself than reveal any details about that part of the show. http://www.csmonitor.com/2001/0920/p1... ...more Glen David Gold's Carter Beats the Devil is something that's becoming increasingly rare: a novel about magic with no fantasy elements in it. But what makes the book truly remarkable is Gold's ability to make real-world stage magic just as interesting and amazing as the feats performed by that uppity British kid in the big glasses: even when the reader is told how the tricks are done. The book gives us the tale of Charles Joseph Carter, a real-life magician thrown into a highly fictionalized story Glen David Gold's Carter Beats the Devil is something that's becoming increasingly rare: a novel about magic with no fantasy elements in it. But what makes the book truly remarkable is Gold's ability to make real-world stage magic just as interesting and amazing as the feats performed by that uppity British kid in the big glasses: even when the reader is told how the tricks are done. The book gives us the tale of Charles Joseph Carter, a real-life magician thrown into a highly fictionalized story involving the (also real but fictionalized) untimely death of President Warren G. Harding. It just so happens that Carter performed a rather morbid trick onstage with the president just hours before he died, and now the FBI considers him a prime suspect in his death. Carter also has to deal with his own fading career, the painful memory of his late wife's tragic death, and a rival magician with a homodical grudge. Throughout it all, he devises an incredible magic show designed to get his career back on track and knock the people of 1920's San Fransisco off their feet. But what makes the book truly remarkable is Gold's ability to transfer the techniques that make magic so enjoyable unto his own writing style. The entire story relies on Gold's skill at misdirection: the soul of the magician's act, where the audience's attention is drawn in the wrong direction so an illusion can be performed. Time and again Gold gets the reader to think about the wrong person or situation so he can surprise us with an unexpected outcome to a sequence. Somehow this trick never gets old, as Gold, like any good magician, comes up with countless ways of dressing up his tricks so they seem brand new. The book boasts a great mystery and an excellent climax, along with a surprise ending that Gold seemingly pulls from nowhere, like a rabbit from a hat. Carter is a fine historical adventure novel, but there are a few problems. Carter himself is an excellent and full realized character, but hardly anyone else in the cast approaches his complexity; the FBI agent who persues him comes close, but several other characters are rather flat and one-dimensional, including Carter's love intrests and various backers of his performance. The worst offender is Mysterioso (his real name is never given) the rival magician and the \"devil\" of the book's title. A Snidley Whiplash style campy bad guy, he abuses animals, demeans his co-workers, murders people (with playing cards!) for no apparent reason, looks down on everyone, attempts rape, and so forth. Mysterioso is a fun bad guy, but that's all he is; he's easily the second most important character in the book but there's nothing whatsoever to his character besides being a jerk. Several of the book's supporting characters suffer similar fates, filling necessary roles which they never come close to breaking out of. Despite this, Carter himself is more than strong enough a character to carry the book all on his own, and his feats of magic, along with the era in which he lived, come alive vividly. So if you're looking for a story that blends adventure, mystery and some truly diabolical tricks, Carter and Gold have quite a show in store for you. ...more Hooray for dollar books! I already wanted to read this, and the cover really cinched the deal, so when I found it in a bargain bin, it was a done deal, and in a fit of spontaneity I began reading it immediately. What I did not expect, upon starting the book, was that if you were to cut out about two thirds of Carter Beats the Devil it would become a thriller. It would be considerably less enjoyable and entertaining than it is, but beneath all the quirk, the history, and the personalities there is Hooray for dollar books! I already wanted to read this, and the cover really cinched the deal, so when I found it in a bargain bin, it was a done deal, and in a fit of spontaneity I began reading it immediately. What I did not expect, upon starting the book, was that if you were to cut out about two thirds of Carter Beats the Devil it would become a thriller. It would be considerably less enjoyable and entertaining than it is, but beneath all the quirk, the history, and the personalities there is an actual, honest-to-God intrigue and action plot that I did not expect from a book that was having \"literary\" type praised heaped upon it. Of course, if I've learned anything about contemporary writing from my years in a liberal arts writing program, it's that \"literary\" isn't really something you can pin down, and that my favorite books always straddle a good line between it and \"genre\" (which is similarly hard to pin down... so maybe there is no line to straddle). Anyway, President Harding attends a magic show by Carter the Great, only to die later that night... and then the first third or so of the book is taken up with elaborating on Carter's back story, bearing almost no connection to anything else plot-wise. Nevertheless, it's a pretty amazing section, that could stand alone as its own novel--it's only between this first part and when the plot really kicks into high gear that the book drags a little, but not too noticeably. Throughout any part of the book though, be it Carter's childhood or secret service intrigue, every moment is peppered with amusing details and/or interesting emotional truths that keep the book enjoyable. The language itself is very matter-of-fact and straightforward, which works well to offset the tangents and loop-de-loops of what's actually being said. Gold clearly did a ton of research for this book, and at times it seems as though a page can't go by with some little piece of historical detail. Sometimes it feels extraneous, like things are simply being crammed in because the author thought that they were too neat to let go, but it's hard to fault that too much when the tidbits themselves are pretty much always interesting. Sometimes the usage of real figures starts to feel a little smothering, and the need to fit into historical events (the plot largely concerns a certain invention) hamstrings one or two plot threads into being a bit unsatisfying... but thankfully there are a ton of them, so one or two aren't really missed. All told, a really, really enjoyable book through and through--I read the last 150 pages in pretty much one (long) sitting, so that should say something. I wonder if it suffered at all from comparisons to Kavalier and Clay when it was new as, on the surface, it seems to have a lot of similarities. Once you actually read it though, it's definitely its own book, and a charming mixture of different genres. I look forward to reading Gold's Sunnyside. ...more What an awesome, perfect book! I can't believe it was the writer's first, either, it's 560 pages and never gets boring. I don't know how accurate it is, but according the blurbs, very. This books will totally take you back to about 100 years ago, before television takes over the entertainment world, and gives the reader a good feeling for what America was like back then, especially California. There are lots of historical figures that pop up, alternate history, Malacca Straights pirates, the fir What an awesome, perfect book! I can't believe it was the writer's first, either, it's 560 pages and never gets boring. I don't know how accurate it is, but according the blurbs, very. This books will totally take you back to about 100 years ago, before television takes over the entertainment world, and gives the reader a good feeling for what America was like back then, especially California. There are lots of historical figures that pop up, alternate history, Malacca Straights pirates, the first BMW motorcycle, the first tv, not one but two love stories, and they are both great and not at all cheesy, tragedy, revenge, revenge for revenge, an evil magician named Mysterioso, a lion that kills a yippy little blood-drinking dog, FBI flatfoot antics, daring escapes, gun and knife and fist fights, surprises and plot twists, brothels, man, just about anything fun and interesting you can think of, with a main character the reader cheers on from childhood till the end of the book. Super super badass book, and if I didn't have a couple hundred unread books glaring down at me from the bookshelf, I'd probably start reading it again right now. Well written, well paced, great ending. ...more A disappointing read, Carter Beats the Devil is both overlong and underwritten. The historical detail just about succeeds in evoking the pre-WWI and interwar years in which the majority of book is set, but the characters, especially Carter himself, are strangely one-dimensional, and the plot is ludicrous, and, ironically, boring. You want books like this to be rip-roaring page-turners, but honestly, for all the supposed \"magic\" in the book it really wasn't very magical or exciting. I feel like G A disappointing read, Carter Beats the Devil is both overlong and underwritten. The historical detail just about succeeds in evoking the pre-WWI and interwar years in which the majority of book is set, but the characters, especially Carter himself, are strangely one-dimensional, and the plot is ludicrous, and, ironically, boring. You want books like this to be rip-roaring page-turners, but honestly, for all the supposed \"magic\" in the book it really wasn't very magical or exciting. I feel like Glen David Gold missed an opportunity to tell a good tale, to really evoke the vaudeville era and it's shabby end, to explore the imagination and wonder of stage magic. Instead, the book is a bland, messy and unsatisfying. Not the worst book I've ever read, but really not very good at all. ...more Wow! This is one of my favorite books ever! History, mystery, and a little romance all set in long ago San Francisco so what's not to like? I'm amazed that this is Mr. Gold's first novel and agree with one review that once you're into it, it's hard not to want the answers, but wishing the book would never end. Ah, but alas, I've read the last page - the one with all the publishing information; that's how good it was. 2/10/13 - Still good, even the second time! Found nuances I missed the first tim Wow! This is one of my favorite books ever! History, mystery, and a little romance all set in long ago San Francisco so what's not to like? I'm amazed that this is Mr. Gold's first novel and agree with one review that once you're into it, it's hard not to want the answers, but wishing the book would never end. Ah, but alas, I've read the last page - the one with all the publishing information; that's how good it was. 2/10/13 - Still good, even the second time! Found nuances I missed the first time around. Can't wait to hear how my book club thinks. ...more Historical figures entwined in a fictional plot that builds to a suspenseful conclusion. Stage magic - one of my favorite subjects = plays a big role and there are liberal doses of humor. All in all a good and satisfying read. Un libro hist\u00f3rico que toma prestados ciertos personajes de la vida real para narrarnos una muy buena historia de magia, intriga y claro un poco de amor, basada en la vida del \"Gran C\u00e1rter\" mago famoso en los a\u00f1os 20's, no fue la maravilla que se dec\u00eda por ahi pero si fue entretenido. Carter Beats the Devil was one of those novels you hate to see end. The 2001 work by Glen David Gold is hard to categorize. Carter Beats the Devil focuses on Charles Carter, a stage magician in 1920s San Francisco facing a career crossroads. Beset by a taunting rival, with the entertainment revolution represented by movies gathering steam, Carter grapples with the need to pull off something amazing to save his career. Flashbacks to earlier points in Carter\u2019s life trace his development from a priv Carter Beats the Devil was one of those novels you hate to see end. The 2001 work by Glen David Gold is hard to categorize. Carter Beats the Devil focuses on Charles Carter, a stage magician in 1920s San Francisco facing a career crossroads. Beset by a taunting rival, with the entertainment revolution represented by movies gathering steam, Carter grapples with the need to pull off something amazing to save his career. Flashbacks to earlier points in Carter\u2019s life trace his development from a privileged youth, his discovery of magic and his romantic travails. Along the way, the story intersects with the death of President Warren Harding and the invention of television. Carter Beats the Devil has an interesting central plot, but it\u2019s not really a plot-driven book. Carter manages to interact with numerous real world personalities on his journey (including Harding, Philo T. Farnsworth, Harry Houdini and the Marx Brothers, among others) and to intersect with real world events. The prospect of career ruination provides the motivating force of the story. But really, Carter Beats the Devil is about the emotional journey of Charles Carter. Gold crafted a rather compelling central character. Carter isn\u2019t always easy to like. Indeed, there are points where he\u2019s rather self-involved and careless of those around him. But Gold locates a relatable point of view in this complicated man with a singularly distinctive profession and outlook on the world. Gold\u2019s construction of the world of period revue shows and stage magic is dazzling. The details, the language of that world, the ups and downs, all come vividly to life. And Gold is a master of immersing the reader in the story\u2019s period setting. He incorporates real world events and people not to show off his research, but because they truly enhance the story. It\u2019s a period novel where the period is almost a character in and of itself. And that, more than anything, may be why Carter Beats the Devil lingers in my mind so strongly 14 years after I first read it. Gold crafted characters and an atmosphere that were transporting and absorbing. While the plot was interesting enough and provided decent payoff, it is the characters and their world that really pull the reader in. I could have gone on reading about them for many more chapters, enjoying the clear love that Gold had for what he was writing. The language, the details, the effortlessness. When a book is crafted with as much heart as was Carter Beats the Devil, it just radiates through. Gold hasn\u2019t been prolific. His only other novel was the relatively disappointing Sunnyside in 2009. That was another period frolic whose many interesting parts never quite came together. One can only hope fans will see another book from him someday. Until then, Carter Beats the Devil is highly and enthusiastically recommended. This review originally appeared on www.thunderalleybcp.com . ...more While this story wasn't about the type of magic that I'm usually drawn to (where witches and wizards rule, where incantations can tear the fabric of reality, where wands are instruments of thought), it was still magic, and it still had me captivated from the second that Carter started his campaign to beat the Devil. I found myself smiling and slightly in awe by just the descriptions of Carter's final act...and wishing there was some way that I could have witnessed that show in person. There are s While this story wasn't about the type of magic that I'm usually drawn to (where witches and wizards rule, where incantations can tear the fabric of reality, where wands are instruments of thought), it was still magic, and it still had me captivated from the second that Carter started his campaign to beat the Devil. I found myself smiling and slightly in awe by just the descriptions of Carter's final act...and wishing there was some way that I could have witnessed that show in person. There are so many thoughts bouncing through my head right now. That I loved Charles Carter and was fiercely devoted to him, his plans and his shows. That I was surprised that James grew on me, growing from the snot-nosed little brother to be a true friend to Carter, smart and business-savvy and respected, and throwing out the single most hilarious line: Oh, dear God, you don't actually have a brain, do you, it's more a filigreed spiderweb, with little chambers in it where trained monkeys play the pipe organ. My thoughts continue: I love historical fiction, especially when it's done so well. And this, this was done SO well. You have the history of San Francisco, a city I adore, as well as Oakland, struggling to compete with San Francisco even then. You have the peak of on-stage magic, the intrigue of President Harding's untimely demise, the Secret Service, shunned and angry ex-magicians, millionaires, female convicts and the invention of something we take for granted. I'm actually sad that the book is over. I fell in love with Carter - not only for his talent, but for his soul. I know, that's such a camp thing to say, but it's true. He was such a kind, mostly innocent person, who above all else, wanted to entertain people, and share his sense of wonder with the masses. His nemeses (nemesis? nemesises? nemesees?) were from different worlds, and pursued him for different reasons, but their tenacity and reasons for hounding Carter were real, if shaky, and entirely absorbing. Honestly, when I started this journey, I had no idea where it would take me. The transitions from the death of President Harding to Carter's past to Carter's present to Carter's (at the time of the first chapter) future were seamless and excellently executed. The final...ehm...\"battle\" (for lack of a better word) between Carter and the two who dogged him was exhilarating and scared the bejeesus out of me with all the twists, turns and changes in dominance. Magic draws me in, no matter the form. The history in Carter's story (indeed, the romanticized versions of Carter, Houdini and the Harding\u2019s) were able to delight and intrigue me, and made truly sad to see the end. ...more By reading the introduction chapter of Carter Beats the Devil you may think you are before a good, solid mystery novel. It has a remarkable, well-written opening. In an evening of August third, 1923, after having taken part in an impressive stage magic show, US President Warren G. Harding is found dead. The master magician, Charles Carter, finds himself in the center of mysterious scheme as Secret Service agents investigates a \u201csecret\u201d President Harding may have been harboring before his sudden By reading the introduction chapter of Carter Beats the Devil you may think you are before a good, solid mystery novel. It has a remarkable, well-written opening. In an evening of August third, 1923, after having taken part in an impressive stage magic show, US President Warren G. Harding is found dead. The master magician, Charles Carter, finds himself in the center of mysterious scheme as Secret Service agents investigates a \u201csecret\u201d President Harding may have been harboring before his sudden and mysterious death. The problems with the book begin right after that wonderful opening. The thread of the story is abruptly interrupted in the next chapter to bring the reader back to Mr. Carter childhood and boyhood years. It is not the life story of Mr. Carter told through a series of intersected flash backs. It is solid block of more than 120 pages entirely dedicated to describe Charles Carter\u00b4s beginnings as a magician. Since this long chapter seems to have been written only to fulfill the \u201cfictionalized biography\u201d part of the book, you can safely skip it and catch up with the story at the beginning of the next chapter. The book problems doesn\u00b4t end there though. After a promising new beginning, the thread of the story quickly dissolves into a confusing swamp, from which it never emerges. At the center of the book seems to lay a crucial indefinition. The author seems to have never really decided what kind of book he wanted to write. The book then constantly oscillates between a mystery novel and a fictionalized biography of Charles Carter. Amidst that never-solved confusion, the characters never really achieve any resemblance of reality and the plotting dissolves amid a myriad of absurd situations. Most of the dialogues are outright insufferable. As someone has written here, by the middle of the book you couldn\u00b4t care less about what really happened to President Harding (or the rest of the characters, for that matter). This is not a good or even an interesting but flawed book. It is an outright bad book. After reading it (or trying to reading it), you are left wondering not only about the criteria used by publishing houses to select the manuscripts to be printed but also about the criteria used by those apparently respectable book reviewers who tells us in the back cover that this is \u201cone of the most entertaining appearing acts of recent years\u201d. ...more An engaging story of Carter the Great with fantastic illusions and fun historical tidbits. 4.25 My Opinion: The backdrop of this story is one of historical events mixed in with possibility. As a master of illusions, Carter grows from a child fascinated with magic to an adult who lives for it. The details that went into the staging and magic acts were flawless. The descriptions gave me the illusion of being an audience member back when Houdini or Carter took the stage. I Iiked that the magic in the An engaging story of Carter the Great with fantastic illusions and fun historical tidbits. 4.25 My Opinion: The backdrop of this story is one of historical events mixed in with possibility. As a master of illusions, Carter grows from a child fascinated with magic to an adult who lives for it. The details that went into the staging and magic acts were flawless. The descriptions gave me the illusion of being an audience member back when Houdini or Carter took the stage. I Iiked that the magic in the book was possible and still so amazing that you could hardly believe it. The two love stories, though definitely not the center of the book, carried me from the middle to the end. SPOILER: My heart broke when Carter's first love met with tragic accident as part of one of Carter's magic tricks. I liked that he didn't just get over it and had to go through years of struggle before finding his final love. I was awestruck at how the author took real events from the 1920s, like the death of President Harding, and turned it into a fantastic story that had me googling the internet to find out what really happened to the president and what Glen David Gold made up. What was even more fun was that some of the things COULD have happened. SPOILER: How cool would if have been for the real President Harding to escape scandal and find peace with his wife on a remote island? I mean, how did he come up with thus stuff?!? Though it took me a few chapters to get into the book (some of the jumping around from character to character didn't get me emotionally engaged until later), overall the book was well-written and researched with enough surprise to keep me reading until the very end. I'm excited to pick up some more of Gold's books. My Content Rating: PG-13 SEXUALITY: Moderate (references to prostitution and homosexuality--the red tie) LANGUAGE/PROFANITY: Mild DRUG/ALCOHOL USE: Moderate INTENSE/SCARY SCENES: Moderate (mostly just intense illusions) VIOLENCE: Moderate (agents getting beat up, attempted murder, death) **Robin-approved for 18+ audiences** ...more Yes it was obviously a first novel. Gold seemed determined to cram every bit of research, every idea he had into this. Its length came not from padding but from an inability to leave anything out. a more experanced writer might have held some ideas thoughts and research back for another novel but I suspect Gold did not know if there would be another novel so in it went.[return][return] I do hope he has enough left over for another [return]Neal Stephenson is the only author I can think of who can Yes it was obviously a first novel. Gold seemed determined to cram every bit of research, every idea he had into this. Its length came not from padding but from an inability to leave anything out. a more experanced writer might have held some ideas thoughts and research back for another novel but I suspect Gold did not know if there would be another novel so in it went.[return][return] I do hope he has enough left over for another [return]Neal Stephenson is the only author I can think of who can keep that pace up for book after book. Since it is his first novel, his pride and joy he has obviously polished it with loving care. Rewriting and reworking it. Mr Gold obviously wants to be more than a journeyman author and this his first novel is more than an aprentice piece he is trying for a master work straight away.[return][return]Does he make it? Well the plot is preposterous. but I love complex plot.[return]and he, (like the secret service agent who did not see a mermaid)understands how and when to reveal and conceal, that most essential component of a storytellers art. His characters? Well a lot were mere sketched exagerations or nonentities. The problem of a large cast. but the pacing was first class. There was never a moment reading, whether about Carters childhood or his adult years when I was not eager to find out what would happen next, yet afraid of missing what was happening currently. I was emotionally involved throught. Amused sad or scared for page after page.[return][return]About two thirds of the way through I thought yes but this book was reccomended as an Adventure story. . I dont think this really qualifies engaging though it is. Then in the next chapter Carter is nailed in a packing case and I had to reconsider big time. There seem to be two disparate novels in this book Mr Gold is to be complimented. on marrying them so well. He is no mere journeyman. I look forward to his next novel he has a lot to live up to. ...more I originally read this book in 2004, right after Kavalier and Clay. Which did not bode well for it. Both books deal with magic and early 20th century entertainment, but Carter suffered from some plot contrivances and general hokiness that made it pale in comparison to Chabon's novel. Not to mention Kavalier and Clay is a \"serious\" novel with lots of brooding and metaphors while Carter is much more lighthearted and wistful. Which, now that I've read it again, I really don't see as a fault. The nov I originally read this book in 2004, right after Kavalier and Clay. Which did not bode well for it. Both books deal with magic and early 20th century entertainment, but Carter suffered from some plot contrivances and general hokiness that made it pale in comparison to Chabon's novel. Not to mention Kavalier and Clay is a \"serious\" novel with lots of brooding and metaphors while Carter is much more lighthearted and wistful. Which, now that I've read it again, I really don't see as a fault. The novel is a thoroughly researched story about magic in the first three decades of the 20th century. Most of its characters are drawn directly from real life, such as Houdini, Warren G. Harding, and even Carter himself. I decided to reread it after I had some free time and decided to look over my favorite scene, when Houdini embarrasses a fellow magician onstage by sabotaging his escape tricks. Immediately I was drawn back in and within a week I had reread the entire novel. All of this is a testament to the richly detailed environment Gold creates through his endless research. By the end, the novel has touched on not only the cultural intricacies of magic, but also engineering, finance, law enforcement, and San Francisco in general. Small throwaway details, such as the food one character gets for lunch, the types of shoes someone wears, or the design of Carter's posters, establish such a thorough world that it's easy to forgive the aforementioned contrivances. A truly engaging novel, and one that's made me incredibly excited to read Gold's latest. All I know about it is that, in the first chapter, Charlie Chaplin somehow appears in hundreds of places across the country simultaneously. Intriguing... ...more Cinco estrellas ten\u00eda, con cinco estrellas se queda :) Me le\u00ec por primera vez \"Carter Enga\u00f1a Al Diablo\" en diciembre de 2003 as\u00ed que, dados mis problemas de alzheimer literario, me apetec\u00eda mucho repetir lectura; sobre todo, porque el recuerdo, hasta donde llegaba, era muy bueno, m\u00e1s que bueno... \u00bfQu\u00e9 recordaba yo? La apasionante historia de un mago que se enamora de una chica ciega, pero eso es s\u00f3lo la punta del iceberg. La verdad es que esta magn\u00edfica primera novela de Gold (por cierto que la se Cinco estrellas ten\u00eda, con cinco estrellas se queda :) Me le\u00ec por primera vez \"Carter Enga\u00f1a Al Diablo\" en diciembre de 2003 as\u00ed que, dados mis problemas de alzheimer literario, me apetec\u00eda mucho repetir lectura; sobre todo, porque el recuerdo, hasta donde llegaba, era muy bueno, m\u00e1s que bueno... \u00bfQu\u00e9 recordaba yo? La apasionante historia de un mago que se enamora de una chica ciega, pero eso es s\u00f3lo la punta del iceberg. La verdad es que esta magn\u00edfica primera novela de Gold (por cierto que la segunda se centra en la vida de Chaplin, y tiene tambi\u00e9n muy buena pinta) es una maravillosa combinaci\u00f3n de g\u00e9neros y tem\u00e1ticas: el toque negro del misterio, la fantas\u00eda de una magia cuya mayor virtud est\u00e1 en ser de la de verdad, aunque hablando de escapismo y prestidigitaci\u00f3n puede que tal afirmaci\u00f3n resulte parad\u00f3jico; un maravilloso fresco hist\u00f3rico de la Am\u00e9rica de principios de siglo y una pizca de drama y romance. Y, por supuesto, personajes de esos tan bien construidos y entra\u00f1ables que permanecen para siempre en la memoria: el propio Carter, su hermano James, Phoebe, el le\u00f3n Baby, el malvado Mysterioso, el obstinado agente Griffin y tambi\u00e9n los hist\u00f3ricos como el Presidente Harding, Philo Farnsworth (inventor de la televisi\u00f3n) o Houdini. M\u00e1s de 600 p\u00e1ginas que se leen con igual deleite la primera vez que la segunda y que, personalmente, recomendar\u00eda a todo el mundo; aunque, por supuesto, especialmente a aquellos que, como yo, sienten fascinaci\u00f3n por las historias de grandes magos con toque hist\u00f3rico y aventura a raudales :) Si dudaba de mi criterio de hace casi nueve a\u00f1os, he confirmado que era tan bueno como lo pueda seguir siendo hoy en d\u00eda. Despu\u00e9s de todo, y como de costumbre... cuesti\u00f3n de gustos. ...more Carter Beats The Devil came into my life because of Wil Wheaton. I basically upped my Photoshop Wil Wheaton game , got asked \" Is that from Carter Beats The Devil?! \" and had to buy the book when I randomly stumbled across it six months later. Hypnotising readers for the past decade with his portrait of a 1920s magic-obsessed America, he follows Charles Carter - Carter the Great - whose skill as an illusionist exceeds that of even Houdini. It's basically historical fiction that, for once, isn't set Carter Beats The Devil came into my life because of Wil Wheaton. I basically upped my Photoshop Wil Wheaton game , got asked \" Is that from Carter Beats The Devil?! \" and had to buy the book when I randomly stumbled across it six months later. Hypnotising readers for the past decade with his portrait of a 1920s magic-obsessed America, he follows Charles Carter - Carter the Great - whose skill as an illusionist exceeds that of even Houdini. It's basically historical fiction that, for once, isn't set in a medieval sort of time, and this one features a magician. So, yes. In line with the Wil Wheaton theme of the review, I'll copy his notion of just telling you what I knew . I knew Wil liked it (a good enough endorsement for me). I knew a lot of other people seemed to like it (it also passed my \"What does Goodreads think?\" test of being over 4). I then fell kind of hook, line and sinker into it. It had to get put down a lot in the process because of driving and working and writing and this, that and the other, but now I've finished it, it was worth the wait. So many books feel like another, but I can't remember anything remotely similar and I just loved it all. Different, but really good. ...more \"Tragedies with happy endings,\" he interrupted. \"Never underestimate them.\" I bought this book a few years ago in the clearance section. It was chosen as a book club pick, so I finally ended up reading it! Definitely worth it! Even though this is highly fictionalized, it was obvious Glen David Gold did a massive amount of research. It read as though it could have been a nonfiction. Carter the Great, Houdini, President Harding, Philo & television. This was a touch of Sherlock Holmes; a dash of \"Tragedies with happy endings,\" he interrupted. \"Never underestimate them.\" I bought this book a few years ago in the clearance section. It was chosen as a book club pick, so I finally ended up reading it! Definitely worth it! Even though this is highly fictionalized, it was obvious Glen David Gold did a massive amount of research. It read as though it could have been a nonfiction. Carter the Great, Houdini, President Harding, Philo & television. This was a touch of Sherlock Holmes; a dash of magic; sprinkled with romance. A highly entertaining adventure! It would have benefited from a few hundred pages less in my opinion, however. It felt obvious at times that this was Glen David Gold's first novel, because it was wordy as hell. There were a few predictable twists at the end, but they were still interesting. I found it was a relatively quick read, even at 600+ pages! It was hard to put down! The Braille on the cover is a fantastic touch. I love intricate little details like that. I had assumed it was the authors name, so I googled it. It is even better than that -- (view spoiler) [She Never Died. (hide spoiler) ] Which was mentioned in regards to Phoebe. It also seemingly resolves the open-ended mystery at the end. Fab! It was magic. (Popsugar Challenge: A book with more than 500 pages) ...more What a magical book both literally & figuratively. Gold has researched & researched not only an era, but a subculture of vaudeville & the magician's circuit during its golden age that few of us have any memory or knowledge of. He weaves it together with actual events (who knew San Francisco had a major blizzard in 1897?) and1920's historical figures from a president to inventors. Not to mention that there really was a magician named Charles Carter AKA Carter the Great. Oh this defini What a magical book both literally & figuratively. Gold has researched & researched not only an era, but a subculture of vaudeville & the magician's circuit during its golden age that few of us have any memory or knowledge of. He weaves it together with actual events (who knew San Francisco had a major blizzard in 1897?) and1920's historical figures from a president to inventors. Not to mention that there really was a magician named Charles Carter AKA Carter the Great. Oh this definitely has the emphasis on the fiction in Historical Fiction, but, like all good fiction, it illuminates truths of this place in time. I have to admit that I may have given extra star because of the delight of hearing about my familiar haunts in San Francisco & Oakland area back in the day. Many scenes are by Lake Merritt in Oakland which I lived within a few blocks of for nearly 20 years. When Carter meets a beautiful blind woman & escorts to her home for the blind at 36th & Telegraph I couldn't help but smile since my very first apartment in Oakland was on 36th street a few doors from Telegraph. On second thought, even if it took place in Cleveland, I would have given it 5 stars. Clearly & richly written & constantly inventive entertainment it has the pacing, timing, & misdirection leading to a great surprises just like a good magic show. ...more", "Title": "Carter Beats the Devil"},
