{"Comments": "I had extremely high expectations prior to reading this book. After all, this is the culmination of a long and amazing series. Perhaps,<---M> I would say</---M>, the best series of crime novels since Chandler.<---F> Maybe even better</---F>. This was the last one. DI John Rebus's last days before retirement. It was with a mix of dread and hope, that I picked it up and started reading. I wanted things to end well for Rebus, but I knew it wasn't going to be all rosy and happy either. It just wouldn't be Rebus, if that had b I had extremely high expectations prior to reading this book. After all, this is the culmination of a long and amazing series. Perhaps, I would say, the best series of crime novels since Chandler. Maybe even better. This was the last one. DI John Rebus's last days before retirement. It was with a mix of dread and hope, that I picked it up and started reading. I wanted things to end well for Rebus, but I knew it wasn't going to be all rosy and happy either. It just wouldn't be Rebus, if that had been the case. I won't spoil it here, suffice to say that the ending lived up to every bit of expectation and then some. It would have left me screaming for more, had I not been in a public place at the time of finishing the novel. Just one more page? Please? John Rebus has grown to be a friend of mine. He's not a perfect guy, in fact he's extremely stubborn and sometimes a bit of an ass, but I like him. His sarcasm, his taste in music and his distaste for authority is similar to my own. I was sad to see him retire and would like nothing more than to drop down to the Ox and buy the man a pint and a malt. Alas, he is but a figment of <---A>Ian Rankin</---A>'s imagination, so I'll have to settle for thanking the author instead. So, thank you mr. Rankin, not just for a fantastic series that got better and better through the years, but also for a fitting and deserving end to a distinguished, albeit fictional, career. This is a great novel on several levels. The plot, the characters, the descriptions - all of it is as good as the best of the other books in the same series. But with the added touch of being what it is. The exit music. ...more This is the seventeenth and allegedly last book in Ian Rankin's excellent series featuring Edinburgh Inspector John Rebus. Rebus was already nearly sixty years old before his creator was stunned to discover that sixty was the mandatory retirement age for detectives in Scotland. Accordingly, this book finds Rebus in the autumn of the year and of his career as well. Rebus has ten days do go when Alexander Todorov, a Russian poet, is brutally murdered after a reading. To all appearances Todorov was This is the seventeenth and allegedly last book in Ian Rankin's excellent series featuring Edinburgh Inspector John Rebus. Rebus was already nearly sixty years old before his creator was stunned to discover that sixty was the mandatory retirement age for detectives in Scotland. Accordingly, this book finds Rebus in the autumn of the year and of his career as well. Rebus has ten days do go when Alexander Todorov, a Russian poet, is brutally murdered after a reading. To all appearances Todorov was the victim of a run-of-the-mill mugging, but Rebus and his long-time understudy, <---C>Siobhan Clarke</---C>, discover a number of anomalies that make them wonder if the case is really as simple as it appears. Todorov's murder coincides with the visit of a group of Russian businessmen who are looking to make large investments in Scotland. Naturally, the local politicos, bankers and other bigwigs fear that the killing might unsettle the Russians and discourage their interest, and inevitably the Powers-That-Be want the case buttoned up and swept under the carpet. Those who have followed this series know full well that John Rebus is not a man who usually follows orders with which he does not agree. And so instead of going quietly into that good night, Rebus presses the investigation full-bore, alienating large numbers of Very Important People in the process, including his own superiors. This too, is hardly unheard of for Rebus, and when a second murder occurs, Rebus is certain that the case is more complicated that it appears on the surface. The case then takes a particularly interesting turn with the appearance of Rebus's long-time nemesis, Big Ger Cafferty. This is a very good book with a complex and interesting plot, in what has been an outstanding series. And it's more than a little bittersweet, watching Rebus count down the days to his retirement while he wonders if he can possibly close his last case before he is put out to pasture. I saw Ian Rankin at an event a few months ago, and as any of his fans will imagine, there were a lot of people in the audience pleading with him to somehow bring the character back. Rankin seemed as reluctant to let go of Rebus as his fans were, and so I'm hoping that this will not really be the last book in the series. But if it should be, <+++>Exit Music</+++> is an excellent valediction for one of the truly great characters in detective fiction. ...more Okay, I've read all of the Rebus series. I suspect this is the final book, given the title. I don't often read the genre, but I've grown to love the warty, very human Rebus. He fights the world, and himself. I suppose I started reading these books because Rebus is set in Edinburgh, where I live. It adds a wonderful dimension when the story takes place in streets and pubs that you know (and I've just learned about a bodysnatching lookout tower from the book). So, you'll enjoy this book if you've Okay, I've read all of the Rebus series. I suspect this is the final book, given the title. I don't often read the genre, but I've grown to love the warty, very human Rebus. He fights the world, and himself. I suppose I started reading these books because Rebus is set in Edinburgh, where I live. It adds a wonderful dimension when the story takes place in streets and pubs that you know (and I've just learned about a bodysnatching lookout tower from the book). So, you'll enjoy this book if you've read the others, and it has a fitting end. It's perhaps not as dark as some of the others - you get the feeling Rankin was in a good mood :-) ...more As We Say Goodbye, Let Me Wish You Grace and Danger, November 18, 2007 \"I never knew the road that carried me along Crazy sidewalk, concealed by pretty song You want my life from me I'll give you two You'll be no strife for me As we say goodbye Let me wish you as you fly. Grace and danger Sweet grace No danger Sweet grace No danger Grace and danger.\" John Martyn John Rebus hooked me into his life with his love of music and his style, and that is how he ends his career, style with '<+++>Exit Music</+++>'-ho As We Say Goodbye, Let Me Wish You Grace and Danger, November 18, 2007 \"I never knew the road that carried me along Crazy sidewalk, concealed by pretty song You want my life from me I'll give you two You'll be no strife for me As we say goodbye Let me wish you as you fly. Grace and danger Sweet grace No danger Sweet grace No danger Grace and danger.\" John Martyn John Rebus hooked me into his life with his love of music and his style, and that is how he ends his career, style with 'Exit Music'-how apropos.Rebus mentions how much John Martyn, The Stones and 'The Cure' have meant to his life, and the songs that he can identify with. Rebus and I and my best friend and it seems Ian Rankin are The Stones, Cure and Martyn fans. Ian Rankin has Rebus at the age of 60, and in Scotland he must retire. It seems I hardly got to know ya, Rebus. We have seen Rebus through much of his detective's life, and as he grew and aged so did we. But, me, I am no way intending to retire. And, what will Rebus do? He can't sit and listen to his music and drink, Can he? Rebus has eight days to go to his retirement. His genial sidekick who may just may take over his job, DC Siobhan Clark, is crafting her trade. She has learned a great deal from this man she loves and respects. Love is not mentioned by either, but we know it is there. Siohban is explaining to him what his retirement party will look like. Rebus does not want any big fuss with his superiors in the audience. It will be quiet with just his kind. And, what is that kind you may ask. If you have to ask.... They are called to the scene of a murder. A body, that of a Russian poet, found in a parking garage. And into the foray they march. Siobhan and Rebus find that a group of Russians have come to Scotland to buy whatever they can. A bank in Scotland has become good neighbors and, of course, who is in the middle of the action? Cafferty, the long time nemesis of Rebus. They have meetings and Rebus follows Cafferty's every move. The murder investigation turns nasty when Rebus is brought up to his superiors for his actions with a murder witness who happens to be the daughter of the bank president. Rebus is suspended. Just as good, now he can go on to solve this murder, and maybe more without being impeded by his bosses. Siobhan takes on the investigation full time and she has learned well from this man, Rebus. She will miss him but she can go it alone. This is more than a book about a bank and the Russian involvement. We are saying goood-bye to Rebus. The retirement party of Rebus and his thoughts as he leaves the job he loves. This is a story of John ,and the end of his career. We are led step by step as he wraps up the murder with the skill he has always shown. There is a twist and we are left to wonder \"Is That All There Is? Detective John Rebus, I will miss you. I have hopes you will be around in some capacity. I will miss your music choices and how your moods match your choice in the music of the days of yore. Good on Yer, Rebus. Highly, Highly Recommended. prisrob 10-25-07 ...more Anyone who follows my book reviews is probably already aware that I am a big fan of Ian Rankin's Inspector Rebus series. Mysteries are my favorite genre and the Rebus series is really one of the best, in my opinion. Rankin can always be counted on to give us believable characters and situations and always there is in the background the wonderfully funky and historic city of Edinburgh, a smallish town in a smallish country where everybody and everything seems intertwined. And always in the middle Anyone who follows my book reviews is probably already aware that I am a big fan of Ian Rankin's Inspector Rebus series. Mysteries are my favorite genre and the Rebus series is really one of the best, in my opinion. Rankin can always be counted on to give us believable characters and situations and always there is in the background the wonderfully funky and historic city of Edinburgh, a smallish town in a smallish country where everybody and everything seems intertwined. And always in the middle of it all is Rebus, a cop who hates being hamstrung by rules, but a cop, who at his core is a very moral man. That's what drives him crazy. What keeps him sane is the music. Rock music. It is the background noise of his life. It tells the story of his alienation, his lost loves, his broken marriage, the daughter who has drifted away, the dead friends, the ghosts of cases without a \"result.\" Those ghosts haunt him at night as he sits in his favorite chair in his living room, a tumbler of malt in his hand, and music from his vast collection of CDs streaming from his audio system. But now the music that John Rebus is hearing is Exit Music . He is one week away from retirement from his long inglorious career with Borders and Lothian Police. He's trying to interest his partner DS Siobhan Clarke in his collection of \"no results\" so that she will carry on with them when he is gone. He's also shadowing his great nemesis \"Big Ger\" Cafferty in hope of finally finding something that will put him away for good. He had been able to send Cafferty to prison a couple of times in his career, but never for long enough. Now he's out and, to all appearances, a legitimate businessman. Rebus doesn't believe it. Then, right in the middle of his last week and his wrapping up of loose ends, a dissident Russian poet who is in Edinburgh gets himself murdered. At first it seems like a simple mugging, but as Rebus and Clarke dig deeper, things get more complicated. Things get even more complicated with a second murder of a man who had been recording the poet's appearances at book stores and other venues. Are the two murders related? Finally, just after he has had a late night meeting with John Rebus, \"Big Ger\" Cafferty is brutally attacked and left for dead. Initial evidence points to Rebus as the attacker. Will he be able to finish out his last week with CID without being arrested for assault with grievous bodily harm, or even murder? Rebus is now nearing 60, but is just as irascible as ever. He can't even get through his last week on the job without being suspended. Of course, when did a minor impediment like a suspension ever stop John Rebus? He goes on with his investigation as if nothing had happened. This is the 17th and final entry in the Rebus series. I guess we knew it had to end sometime, and it's probably best that Rankin puts his detective out to pasture before he begins to repeat himself. He's probably heartily fed up with the old boy after all these years and ready to move on to other things. Still, I will miss him and I shouldn't be surprised to find myself wondering how Rebus is coping with retirement. Somehow I suspect it would not be a pretty thing to watch. ...more It is with sorrow that I read another in this great series as with each passing book I get closer to the end. To say this series has been a joy is an understatement. Rankin, through his wonderful character, Rebus, has introduced me to Edinburgh. So much so that my family and I, my wife is a huge fan of the series as well, travelled to Edinburgh for holidays. Seeing Waverley Station, Princes Street, the Oxford Bar, and all of Rebus' haunts was a lot of fun. Reading this book was too. A great read It is with sorrow that I read another in this great series as with each passing book I get closer to the end. To say this series has been a joy is an understatement. Rankin, through his wonderful character, Rebus, has introduced me to Edinburgh. So much so that my family and I, my wife is a huge fan of the series as well, travelled to Edinburgh for holidays. Seeing Waverley Station, Princes Street, the Oxford Bar, and all of Rebus' haunts was a lot of fun. Reading this book was too. A great read. Plot twists but consistency in living with Rebus on his final days before retirement from the force. Wonderful! ...more Rebus has personality and onus. He just holds it. And this book occurs just prior to his scheduled retirement. It had a good plot and interesting balance to the Russian poet's murder. I've only read a few of these. It is the Scottish location police department hierarchy and peer pub snark factor that nearly always puts me off with these Rebus books, coupled with a bit of overload word verbosity. It did this time too, which knocks off an entire star. I bet he comes back as an unauthorized consult Rebus has personality and onus. He just holds it. And this book occurs just prior to his scheduled retirement. It had a good plot and interesting balance to the Russian poet's murder. I've only read a few of these. It is the Scottish location police department hierarchy and peer pub snark factor that nearly always puts me off with these Rebus books, coupled with a bit of overload word verbosity. It did this time too, which knocks off an entire star. I bet he comes back as an unauthorized consultant or some other form of being a sneaky observer in the know. ...more \"That was that, then. End of the line, end of the job. These past weeks, he'd been trying so hard not to think about it - throwing himself into other work, any work. For three decades now this job of his had sustained him, and all it had cost him was his marriage and a slew of friendships and shattered relationships. No way he was ever going to feel like a civilian again; too late for that; too late for him to change. He would become invisible to the world...\" And so it ends. Exit Music marks DI \"That was that, then. End of the line, end of the job. These past weeks, he'd been trying so hard not to think about it - throwing himself into other work, any work. For three decades now this job of his had sustained him, and all it had cost him was his marriage and a slew of friendships and shattered relationships. No way he was ever going to feel like a civilian again; too late for that; too late for him to change. He would become invisible to the world...\" And so it ends. Exit Music marks DI John Rebus' last 10 days on the force before his mandatory retirement. In the memorable words of his UK countryman, Dylan Thomas, Rebus is \"not going gently into that good night\". As feisty as ever, Rebus continues to defy authority right to the bitter end in the hopes to close the books on the final two crimes that come his way in his last week of work. The first consists of the beating death of a Russian poet and the second, of which Rebus is sure is connected to the first, is the murder of a known associate. As with all books in this excellent series, this one has an extremely well-written and complex plot line and introduces enough shady characters and possible motives to keep you guessing until the end. The excellent story aside, this book is so much more. It's all about Rebus facing the end to the only life he's ever known and staring into a future so non compelling and empty that he's almost fearful of what will become of him. It's about him letting his longstanding mentee and closest friend, Siobhan go it alone and trusting her to carry on where he's left off and him coming to terms with all the unsolved cases and uncaptured villains of his past. With the latter, his main order of unfinished business is his longstanding nemesis, Big Ger Cafferty. His relationship with the gangster of Edinburgh is nothing short of complicated and multifaceted and the turn it takes in this story is a fitting segue to Rebus' life after policing. An impressive final chapter to one of the most interesting, relatable and yes, likable detectives in crime fiction today. Goodbye John Rebus, I do hope we will see you again in your life post-retirement just to see how you're holding up. \"Penny for them.\" It was Siobhan, standing in the doorway. \" You'd be wasting your money,\" he told her. \"Somehow I very much doubt that. Are you ready?\" Hoisting her bag on her shoulder. \"As I'll ever be.\" He decided this much was true. ...more This book is the one. This is the one where we see Rebus leaving the police force. The book covers the last ten days of Rebus and his life as a police officer. Does he leave in a quiet, laid-back manner? Not Rebus. He is actually working on two cases in these last days. One is a Russian poet who is found beaten to death in a dark alley, and the other is a British sound tech who is burned in his home. Are they murders, and are they connected? Rebus and Siobhan try to figure it out. The investigat This book is the one. This is the one where we see Rebus leaving the police force. The book covers the last ten days of Rebus and his life as a police officer. Does he leave in a quiet, laid-back manner? Not Rebus. He is actually working on two cases in these last days. One is a Russian poet who is found beaten to death in a dark alley, and the other is a British sound tech who is burned in his home. Are they murders, and are they connected? Rebus and Siobhan try to figure it out. The investigation takes them into the murky world of diplomatic and domestic politics. It even brings them back into Big Ger Mcafferty's orbit. That's never good news for Rebus. He and Big Ger have a long and very tumultous history, and Rebus's biggest regret is that he didn't manage to have the gangster placed behind bars for good during his police career. Rebus is his usual \"bull in a china shop\" self in this book. His doggedness and his constant search for truth land him in trouble with the big wigs both in and out of the police force. I actually delayed reading this book becasue I just didn't want to come to the end of this wonderful series. As it turns out, this book isn't the end of Rebus (thank you Ian Rankin), just his time on the Edinburgh police force. That in itself is a little sad though because I have grown to love this character, and I don't think his retirement is going to be an easy one. There are too many demons at war inside this man. I was happy to see his protege seems to have come into her own and her policing methods are almost the same as her mentor's, but she's more analytical and doesn't seem to have the inner demons that her boss has. Siobhan will do well in her rise up in the force. I think she is Rebus' biggest achievement, and I think that he thinks so too. I am looking forward to post-retirement Rebus. I'm sure there will be lots of delights in store yet with this wonderful character. ...more This is Ian Rankin\u2019s second masterpiece. The first was Black & Blue. I have grown old with DI Rebus. I define the way I enjoy crime fiction from Ian Rankin\u2019s, and Michael Connelly\u2019s, writing. I read Exit Music as slowly as I could. I don\u2019t want Rebus and his arch-enemy, Big Ger Cafferty, off my reading radar. I was not disappointed. Rankin is a fine storyteller. He and Rebus work through Edinburgh as one in this swan song. Or is it? The crime Rebus investigates is cleverly concealed and reveal This is Ian Rankin\u2019s second masterpiece. The first was Black & Blue. I have grown old with DI Rebus. I define the way I enjoy crime fiction from Ian Rankin\u2019s, and Michael Connelly\u2019s, writing. I read Exit Music as slowly as I could. I don\u2019t want Rebus and his arch-enemy, Big Ger Cafferty, off my reading radar. I was not disappointed. Rankin is a fine storyteller. He and Rebus work through Edinburgh as one in this swan song. Or is it? The crime Rebus investigates is cleverly concealed and revealed by Rankin. It marks the beginning of an end. It ties up and loosens threads that have run through the entire series of these 18 novels. All the usual suspects, including Siobhan Clarke, are there. Edinburgh plays its part. Rankin laughs at that the walking tours that the legend of John Rebus has birthed. He takes Rebus on this walk as he approaches his final day as a policeman. The voices, and rhythms, of Rebus\u2019s life are so well defined and so well paced in this novel, that I fell in love with this character, and his creator, all over again. The relationship between detective and criminal is shown. Obsession is fear, hatred is love, and terror is fascination. It takes an exceptional writer to show this. I was apprehensive about committing to this book. If it is Rebus\u2019s final appearance, I wanted it to be brilliant. I wasn\u2019t disappointed. Here\u2019s to you, Mr Rankin. As I\u2019ve said before; if you weren\u2019t writing crime fiction you would win a literary prize. ...more 5 STARS ALL THE WAY! I finally got there, last of the original 17 Inspector Rebus novels, and Exit Music is Rankin's masterpiece. Everything is here - the rich bankers, the lazy parking lot attendants, young flatmates into drugs and partying, Big Ger Cafferty and several Russians. Throughout Rankin makes Edinburgh as large a character than it has ever been before. The spooky Kings Stables Rd. where the mysterious parking garage DOES exist (Google maps and street view a constant companion), where 5 STARS ALL THE WAY! I finally got there, last of the original 17 Inspector Rebus novels, and Exit Music is Rankin's masterpiece. Everything is here - the rich bankers, the lazy parking lot attendants, young flatmates into drugs and partying, Big Ger Cafferty and several Russians. Throughout Rankin makes Edinburgh as large a character than it has ever been before. The spooky Kings Stables Rd. where the mysterious parking garage DOES exist (Google maps and street view a constant companion), where muggers and mysterious hooded figures apparently roam. A thrilling chapter as Rebus follows Cafferty to a canal bridge late at night had me in huge suspense the whole time. SPOILERS? Nope. For newbies, if you're in a hurry start at Black and Blue (halfway through the Rebus series). But there's much in the early books to chew on too. Don't start here, you'll enjoy the ride more when you get here. And Det-Sgt. Siobhan Clarke gets better with every book, more her own person, more in control. As for Det-Inspector John Rebus, we get a FOCUSED and alert version this time. Still breaking the rules, still being irreverent to superiors, but not wallowing at home or drowning his sorrows at the Oxford Bar. With SO many threads in this book there's enough for him to do after all. This novel is LOADED with fascinating secondary characters who may or not be crucial to events. Even the ending is wrapped up beautifully. I will say no more, I couldn't put this one DOWN! ...more There is a point in the career for the best crime fiction series writers that they have so much comfort with the world they have created and their characters it is like drinking a cold, smooth, milkshake made from the best homemade ice cream. And by the point Ian Rankin wrote \"Exit Music\" he was there. While I have some minor quibbles with the plot, the perfection of the interplay between Rebus and Siobhan makes this book special. Bettie's Books It is hard to write about a crime novel without spilling too much information. And it is especially hard when it is, at least, two months since you finished the book. So I will give you just the basics and make the overall theme of music my main focus for this review. The music is not part of the crime solving process, but for inspector John Rebus, the bizarre main character of a complete crime fiction series by Ian Rankin, the music is important to get either his brain working or to relax after It is hard to write about a crime novel without spilling too much information. And it is especially hard when it is, at least, two months since you finished the book. So I will give you just the basics and make the overall theme of music my main focus for this review. The music is not part of the crime solving process, but for inspector John Rebus, the bizarre main character of a complete crime fiction series by Ian Rankin, the music is important to get either his brain working or to relax after a long day in the streets of Edinburgh. A man is found bludgeoned and kicked to death in a side street of Edinburgh just 10 days from Rebus\u2019 retirement. This doesn\u2019t happen every day in his city but the inspector is an old dog and he has seen and dealt with everything during his career. Life has made him hard, stubborn and a bit self-contained. He is a lonely wanderer who doesn\u2019t give up a case, even if it is officially closed. He drinks and smokes too much and gives his colleagues and supervisors a hard time. Rebus is exactly the character one wants to find in a crime novel and that might be the reason of the series\u2019 success. \u201d\u2026 each rung you climb there\u2019s another arse waiting to be licked.\u201d And that is something Rebus refused to do up until his last day in the force. The only person he seems to get along with, is his partner Siobhan Clarke, his prot\u00e9g\u00e9, and successor. The victim in this book is a Russian writer and PEN member, who was in Edinburgh to give readings and work on his latest project. All the leads Rebus and Clarke follow in this case seem to get more and more branched. They lead into areas that appear to have nothing to do with each other at first like art, politics or drug trade. In the end, we find out it was a love crime and that\u2019s all I will tell you. Back to the music. Throughout the book, the music mentioned fits to the mood of Rebus and the places the author leads us. It is the music Rebus loves and enjoys, his exit music. After this case, he will finish his police career. He doesn\u2019t know how his life will be. He can\u2019t imagine being without his work, but he will have more time to listen to music. I created an exit music list out of the bands and titles mentioned in the book. This music was playing inside my head while I read this book. Read it if you like a good quirky character, that kind of crime novel, Edinburgh or just music. You can see the music list on my blog ...more PROTAGONIST: DI John Rebus and DS Siobhan Clarke SETTING: Edinburgh, Scotland SERIES: #17 of 17 RATING: 3.75 The time that fans of Detective Inspector John Rebus have long dreaded has arrived\u2014in only ten days, Rebus is set to retire. Anyone who knows him does not expect him to go gently into that good night. Even though his career clock is ticking, he\u2019s completely engaged in the newest case to come in to the department. Acclaimed Russian poet Alexander Todorov has been beaten to death. What at first PROTAGONIST: DI John Rebus and DS Siobhan Clarke SETTING: Edinburgh, Scotland SERIES: #17 of 17 RATING: 3.75 The time that fans of Detective Inspector John Rebus have long dreaded has arrived\u2014in only ten days, Rebus is set to retire. Anyone who knows him does not expect him to go gently into that good night. Even though his career clock is ticking, he\u2019s completely engaged in the newest case to come in to the department. Acclaimed Russian poet Alexander Todorov has been beaten to death. What at first appears to be a mugging turns into something a lot bigger, involving Scottish politicians and Russian businessmen. The case is oddly headed by Detective Sergeant Siobhan Clarke, with the result that Rebus is reporting to her. She has also brought a young copper on board named Todd Goodyear, who is the grandson of someone that Rebus investigated years earlier. It\u2019s interesting to see how Clarke works with Goodyear. In many ways, their relationship mirrors that of Rebus and Clarke, with her serving as Goodyear\u2019s mentor and advisor. As the investigation continues, Rebus also sees connections to a local gangster named Big Ger Cafferty. Cafferty has been Rebus\u2019s arch nemesis for more than three decades. Despite all his efforts, Rebus has never been able to pin anything on the mobster. He\u2019s become almost obsessed with bringing him to justice, to the point where he is surveilling Cafferty on his own time. Unfortunately, this results in Rebus\u2019s suspension for the last few days on the job. The Cafferty plot line was my favorite part of the book. It played out in a way much different than expected, satisfying and confounding all at once. On the down side, I found the pace of the book to be slow. Many aspects of the investigations seemed redundant and slowed down the overall narrative. As always, the book\u2019s strengths are the characterization of the inimitable Rebus and the depiction of the strong partnership relationship between him and Clarke and a good mystery, to boot. What will become of John Rebus, a man whose job has been the core of his life for so long, a man with no hobbies or outside interests to speak of? It\u2019s impossible to imagine him pottering around in the garden or working on a stamp collection. What\u2019s even more interesting is to guess what Rankin may have in mind for the series. Is it really over now that the protagonist of 17 books is retiring? Or will he continue with a series centered on his replacement, DS Siobhan Clarke, who we\u2019ve come to know and respect throughout the books? ...more EXIT MUSIC (Police Proc-John Rebus-Scotland-Cont) \u2013 Ex Rankin, Ian \u2013 18th in series Orion, 2008, UK Hardcover- ISBN: 9780752868608 First Sentence: The girl screamed once, only the once, but it was enough. DI John Rebus is one week from retirement. What begins as the murder of a Russian poet becomes much more complex. Does it involve the Russians meeting with Edinburgh real estate agents and bankers? How does it link with a second murder? What is the connection to Rebus\u2019 nemeses Ger Cafferty? When Re EXIT MUSIC (Police Proc-John Rebus-Scotland-Cont) \u2013 Ex Rankin, Ian \u2013 18th in series Orion, 2008, UK Hardcover- ISBN: 9780752868608 First Sentence: The girl screamed once, only the once, but it was enough. DI John Rebus is one week from retirement. What begins as the murder of a Russian poet becomes much more complex. Does it involve the Russians meeting with Edinburgh real estate agents and bankers? How does it link with a second murder? What is the connection to Rebus\u2019 nemeses Ger Cafferty? When Rebus gets suspended, it\u2019s up to DS Siobhan Clark to work on the inside while Rebus keeps investigating from the outside. I put off reading this book because I was concerned as to how Rankin would close out Rebus\u2019 career. I need not have worried. This is quintessential Rebus who has given up almost everything in his life for his job. The case seemed to start off as a simple killing, but layers build upon layers and twists upon turns. Rankin has done such a fine job creating Rebus, he is very real. I don\u2019t always like him, but you know that is intentional. Rankin hasn\u2019t glamorized Edinburgh, as many authors do, but presents it as a city of people and problems as is any city, and he makes that city alive to us. For me, the ending was perfect and just the right touch. I\u2019m anxious to see what Rankin does next, but I do sincerely hope Rebus reappears from time-to-time. Bravo, Mr. Rankin. ...more Seventeenth in the Inspector Rebus detective mystery series set in Edinburgh, Scotland. My Take Please. Please, don't let Rebus retire\u2026I want to read more about him! He's too interesting a character to sit back in an armchair with his music and Scotch. Rebus reminds me of Inspector Morse in that he's a bit cantankerous, \"knows-all\" (usually true!), and he has an eye for the ladies \u2014 besides the drink and the music! As for other characters, there's really only Siobhan Clarke who has been stuck with Seventeenth in the Inspector Rebus detective mystery series set in Edinburgh, Scotland. My Take Please. Please, don't let Rebus retire\u2026I want to read more about him! He's too interesting a character to sit back in an armchair with his music and Scotch. Rebus reminds me of Inspector Morse in that he's a bit cantankerous, \"knows-all\" (usually true!), and he has an eye for the ladies \u2014 besides the drink and the music! As for other characters, there's really only Siobhan Clarke who has been stuck with Rebus for most of the series as his not-quite-equal partner. We know so little about her that I don't see her taking over the series. Other minor characters appear in the background to give it some consistency \u2014 it's primarily Rebus with Shiv and his maneuvering to get his way in his (well, mostly his) investigations. A fascinating look at crime in Edinburgh and an incredible tour of the city and Scottish culture and politics. If this truly is the end of Rebus\u2026I'll miss it. I do have my suspicions that Rebus may be joining another squad though\u2026 The Story Always a pain in management's back side (one of Rebus' three delights in life, besides the scotch and music), this is Rebus' last chance to clear up old cases, and especially, clear up Ger Cafferty. So when a Russian dissident poet is murdered and a possible connection to Big Ger rises, Rebus insists that there is more to the murder. ...more This is my first Inspector Rebus book, but I hear it is the last in the series (sigh). I must read the others. I spent some time in Edinburgh, so I recall the places they spoke of. A beautiful city! Detective Inspector John Rebus is retiring and tries to tie up some loose end. There is a murder of a Russian poet that seems to be a mugging gone wrong. By apparent coincidence a high-level delegation of Russian businessmen is in town, keen to bring business to Scotland. The politicians and bankers w This is my first Inspector Rebus book, but I hear it is the last in the series (sigh). I must read the others. I spent some time in Edinburgh, so I recall the places they spoke of. A beautiful city! Detective Inspector John Rebus is retiring and tries to tie up some loose end. There is a murder of a Russian poet that seems to be a mugging gone wrong. By apparent coincidence a high-level delegation of Russian businessmen is in town, keen to bring business to Scotland. The politicians and bankers who run Edinburgh are determined that the case should be closed quickly and clinically. Hmmm\u2026here is where the story grabbed me. Why sweep of the death of a prominent business man who is in a foreign country under the rug? What was he here? What was he doing? But the further they dig, the more Rebus and his colleague DS Siobhan Clarke become convinced that they are dealing with something more than a random attack - especially after a particularly nasty second killing. Meantime, a brutal and premeditated assault on local gangster 'Big Ger' Cafferty sees Rebus in the frame. Has the Inspector taken a step too far in tying up those loose ends? Only a few days shy of the end to his long, inglorious career, will Rebus even make it that far? It held my attention and I would recommend this book to mystery buffs. ...more I was quite frankly disappointed with this book. I understand now that there will be another in the Rebus series but, at the time of publication it was considered to be the last . Now let me say I have, from the beginning, been an Ian Rankin fan which I guess could have contributed to my high level of anticipation. And when I opened the book it drew me in pretty quickly and we 'were off' as they say. The only problem for me it, like its heroe, it began to run out of steam. I wom't delineate the I was quite frankly disappointed with this book. I understand now that there will be another in the Rebus series but, at the time of publication it was considered to be the last . Now let me say I have, from the beginning, been an Ian Rankin fan which I guess could have contributed to my high level of anticipation. And when I opened the book it drew me in pretty quickly and we 'were off' as they say. The only problem for me it, like its heroe, it began to run out of steam. I wom't delineate the story for you but suffice it to say Rebus is days away from retirement. He's tired and curmudgeonly - no change there - and his intention is to go through his unsolved cases with his sidekick DS Clarke when a Russian poet is found murdered? Clarke is put in charge of the case and Rebus orchestrates from the sidelines. To be fair the story is complex and I didn't guess the denouement so in that it was successful but I was beginning not to care. I consider Rankin to be a master of the genre. I simply feel he's taken this particular character as far as he can. Perhaps he's got sucked into the success? I ask myself if I had read this book without prior knowledge of the others in the series what would I have thought? To be honest I would have been more enthusiastic but as it is I am disappointed! ...more This was a kindle deal of the day. Worth every one of the 199 pennies, but don't make this your first Inspector Rebus story. Too much short-hand writing, ie rankin assumes you know much of the back story and the quirks of the characters. This wasn't my first, so I enjoyed it. Though it felt a tad like the author was a wee bit tired of old Rebus and wanted to hurry him along off the page. The story about a murdered Russia poet has plenty of twists and turns, and the result is good, possibly unexp This was a kindle deal of the day. Worth every one of the 199 pennies, but don't make this your first Inspector Rebus story. Too much short-hand writing, ie rankin assumes you know much of the back story and the quirks of the characters. This wasn't my first, so I enjoyed it. Though it felt a tad like the author was a wee bit tired of old Rebus and wanted to hurry him along off the page. The story about a murdered Russia poet has plenty of twists and turns, and the result is good, possibly unexpected. (How DID the police solve crimes before there was CCTV?) Rankin tidies up all the loose ends, but leaves enough musing about post-retirement work to allow the author to resurrect Rebus if finances dictate ( I presume). No memorable new characters, though the seconded PC felt substantial, and I did pity him listening to 16 hours of Parliament subcommittee hearing tapes. Rankin played with us a bit, here was me thinking the PC was going to be the new character partnered up with Clarke in future installments. At the end one is forced to conclude, probably not. (Ha! I just looked it up and indeed, he did bring Rebus back and he is working for the cold case squad, manned by retired policemen) ...more I am sparing with my 5 stars, but I am giving them here, for all the Rebus Series collectively, because I have loved them. I still wonder why it took me so long to find Ian Rankin and his Rebus books. They have been entertaining, realistic and well written and I am sad to have come to almost, but not quite, the end of the series. There are 3 others after Exit Music so it's not all over yet. I hope maybe Ian Rankin considers keeping the theme going with Siobhan Clarke taking over, with Rebus cons I am sparing with my 5 stars, but I am giving them here, for all the Rebus Series collectively, because I have loved them. I still wonder why it took me so long to find Ian Rankin and his Rebus books. They have been entertaining, realistic and well written and I am sad to have come to almost, but not quite, the end of the series. There are 3 others after Exit Music so it's not all over yet. I hope maybe Ian Rankin considers keeping the theme going with Siobhan Clarke taking over, with Rebus consulting ever now and again. I don't know, all I know is. I love this series. I love the witty one-liners, the characters and the setting in Edinburgh, so much so, I am visiting there soon and look forward to seeing somewhere and saying, Rebus walked here! Exit Music, like all the previous books, it a police procedural one and as usual, Rebus is rubbing up his bosses the wrong way, so much so, and not for the first time in his career, he is suspended in the final days of his life on the force. The investigation follows the death of a Russian Poet and as there as a number of Russian businessmen/diplomats knocking about town, Rebus and Clarke are wondering if there is a connection to the death. Throw in Big Ger Cafferty to the mix and Rebus smells trouble. Great book. ...more What did I learn from this book? Easy. Don't come into a series on the 16th and final book. Why, you may ask? Because apparently the primary characters in the book have a long and complex history of which I was ignorant. And the author did little to bring a novice reader up to speed. I was urged to read this book by a long-time reader of Ian Rankin, who, apparently, also read them in order. Anyway, the book takes place in Scotland in 2006 as Detective Inspector John Rebus is facing imminent mand What did I learn from this book? Easy. Don't come into a series on the 16th and final book. Why, you may ask? Because apparently the primary characters in the book have a long and complex history of which I was ignorant. And the author did little to bring a novice reader up to speed. I was urged to read this book by a long-time reader of Ian Rankin, who, apparently, also read them in order. Anyway, the book takes place in Scotland in 2006 as Detective Inspector John Rebus is facing imminent mandatory retirement. A highly honored Russian poet is found murdered and the fun (?) takes off from there. In mood, the book reminded me of a Henning Mankell book--honestly, these Northern Europeans need to lighten up. And the story meanders along several different tangents, including parallels between Russian and Scottish history and the possibility of the independence of Scotland from the United Kingdom. I found myself plowing through the book about as fast as I could plow through a three foot high snowdrift. But then the last 75 pages made it all worth while. I'm not sure that I will pick up another Ian Rankin book in the near future, but if I do, I'll start with the first book in the series and get to know these people. ...more Inspector Rebus, book17 With this installment Mr Rankin has written a great send off, a suitable finale for his protagonist Inspector Rebus. Each chapter is a count down to his last days before retirement. True to the author's style, suspense builds till the end making this story not only entertaining but also intriguing. Under pressure to solve the murder of a Russian poet and a local sound recordist, Rebus and Siobhan quickly find out this case is connected to the underworld led by Big Ger Caffe Inspector Rebus, book17 With this installment Mr Rankin has written a great send off, a suitable finale for his protagonist Inspector Rebus. Each chapter is a count down to his last days before retirement. True to the author's style, suspense builds till the end making this story not only entertaining but also intriguing. Under pressure to solve the murder of a Russian poet and a local sound recordist, Rebus and Siobhan quickly find out this case is connected to the underworld led by Big Ger Cafferty, Rebus's nemesis. We follow them trying to solve the mystery and as we turn pages frantically trying to guess who committed the crime; we are plunged into a plot that is rich and complex with subtle twists. Rebus is in prime form, still argumentative, opinionated and getting in trouble with his superiors. All the characters are masterfully crafted as usual, Siobhan is as gutsy as ever and we route for her success, will she be able to replace her mentor, I am sure we will be treated to more thrilling adventures in the future ...more I am a fan of Rebus and Ian Rankin, but this is not his best novel. Rebus is on the point of retiring, when a Russian dissident is murdered. Rebus and Siobhan Clarke believe the killing is political and the victims links with the Russian diaspora in Edinburgh and their links to local politicians come under scrutiny. The ending was a little contrived and I thought not very credible. Rebus is wary of the consequences of his retirement as is Clarke who anticipates promotion. The city plays it's usu I am a fan of Rebus and Ian Rankin, but this is not his best novel. Rebus is on the point of retiring, when a Russian dissident is murdered. Rebus and Siobhan Clarke believe the killing is political and the victims links with the Russian diaspora in Edinburgh and their links to local politicians come under scrutiny. The ending was a little contrived and I thought not very credible. Rebus is wary of the consequences of his retirement as is Clarke who anticipates promotion. The city plays it's usual starring role and Rankin displays his knowledge of contemporary music. A good read but not outstanding. ...more This nostalgic farewell for the aging, rebellious, and popular Rebus raised an all-consuming question for critics: is this really the end to the beloved detective, or will he return? The cliffhanger ending, as well as the general belief that Rankin would never give up his adored character, suggests that Rebus could make a comeback. \" Exit Music does leave the door open for more Rebus stories as well as a series featuring Siobhan, who has become more of a presence in each novel,\" notes the South F This nostalgic farewell for the aging, rebellious, and popular Rebus raised an all-consuming question for critics: is this really the end to the beloved detective, or will he return? The cliffhanger ending, as well as the general belief that Rankin would never give up his adored character, suggests that Rebus could make a comeback. \" Exit Music does leave the door open for more Rebus stories as well as a series featuring Siobhan, who has become more of a presence in each novel,\" notes the South Florida Sun-Sentinel . Either way, the novel, framed by the fight for an independent Scotland and another labyrinthine case, is a fitting end to Rebus's career. A few clich ...more Been a long time since I read Rankin, but he's still great. One the one hand just a story of a murder - on the other hand a much larger story of global capital, Scottish independence & the involved politics. And also the personal story of DI Rebus' last week in the force and the unknown that awaits him in retirement. Funny how I'm reading \"Crime and Punishment\" at the same time and their interweaving of stories into one another is actually pretty similar. Not quite as much rambling inner dial Been a long time since I read Rankin, but he's still great. One the one hand just a story of a murder - on the other hand a much larger story of global capital, Scottish independence & the involved politics. And also the personal story of DI Rebus' last week in the force and the unknown that awaits him in retirement. Funny how I'm reading \"Crime and Punishment\" at the same time and their interweaving of stories into one another is actually pretty similar. Not quite as much rambling inner dialogue here, but then we are following the detectives, not the murderer. ...more Just a few days off retirement, Rebus is trying to solve the murder of a Russian poet, with the help of partner D.S. Siobhan Clarke and a young P.C. Goodyear lent to the CID. This is a really good story, full of red herrings, twists and tails, and Rebus is the tortured, drunk genius at his best. I really love this character. As Rebus' career as a DI nears an end. he's still in the thick of it, still getting into trouble, and still wicked good as a detective. This volume makes you wish the series could continue forever... Excellent storyline that keeps you guessing until the end. Rankin has been leading the reader to this moment for a while. We have known about Rebus\u2019s impending retirement as he has ruminated over the last few books about what it will mean in his life. The time has arrived. Exit Music is set ten days before Rebus is to retire from the police force. He has been huddled with his partner Siobhan Clarke, going over his cold cases before he leaves, trying to tie up all the loose ends and get her interested in closing some of his old files. The entire scene see Rankin has been leading the reader to this moment for a while. We have known about Rebus\u2019s impending retirement as he has ruminated over the last few books about what it will mean in his life. The time has arrived. Exit Music is set ten days before Rebus is to retire from the police force. He has been huddled with his partner Siobhan Clarke, going over his cold cases before he leaves, trying to tie up all the loose ends and get her interested in closing some of his old files. The entire scene seems tinged with regret. Neither Rebus nor the reader is keen about his eminent departure wondering what will sustain him once his job is behind him. His daughter is in England living with a college lecturer, his ex-wife has moved to Italy. For three decades the job has been his life and all it had cost him was his marriage and a few relationships and friendships. Siobhan is also wondering about her future. With Rebus gone she is in line for a promotion to Inspector, but she has not heard anything yet. She knows she will miss Rebus but also that she must start planning for a future without him. It is a tense time with Rebus ready to leave the battlefield and Clarke on the cusp of promotion. When news of the murder of a dissident Russian poet living in Edinburgh arrives at the station, Rebus becomes energized, eager to take his mind off the end of his career and determined to fill his last days on the job the way he feels most comfortable\u2014out in the field in the middle of a murder inquiry. Alexander Todorov had not lived in Russia for some time. Although he was the winner of a number of awards and there was talk of a Nobel Prize, his views of post-glasnost Russia has earned him the anger and derision of the politburo. His latest book of Poetry \u201cAstapovo Blues\u201d contains poems about past Russian authors but also includes critiques of the current political scene in his home country. Rebus examines Todorov\u2019s body found in King\u2019s Stables Road, a deserted street near a multi-level carpark. He had been hit so hard on the head with a blunt object that his skull was fractured. He had also been beaten severely about the face. The state of the body is not consistent with a mugging, even though the victim\u2019s ring and watch have been removed. There was too much fury in the attack, something a mugger would never bother to take time with, being more concerned with grabbing his loot and disappearing. And then Rebus discovers a blood trail that leads back to the carpark. As the investigation begins, Clarke takes on a new recruit named Todd Goodyear who is anxious to join the CID. Many years ago, Rebus sent Todd\u2019s grandfather to prison. He had been a pub landlord caught dealing drugs and Rebus was an important witness on the stand. But Goodyear appears to be a keen copper, anxious to get experience and willing to put in extra effort. Goodyear\u2019s enthusiasm reminds Clarke of her first days in uniform, when she was keen and confident that she could make a difference. Rebus sees things differently. He feels Siobhan has already written him off and will take on Goodyear as her second in command. It will help her to avoid making a choice between the two people currently working with her who are anxious to fill the vacant slot coming up on the team, but who Clarke feels are not ready for promotion. From this point, what could be a simple mugging begins to branch out in different directions, allowing Rankin to develop different subplots and the usual tangle that always complicates Rebuses\u2019 investigations. They include a delegation of rich Russian businessmen being entertained by Scottish bankers and government officials and led by wealthy tycoon Sergei Andropov; a mysterious hooker wearing a hood spotted near the crime scene at the time of the murder, a second murder of someone connected to the poet and of course Big Ger Cafferty, who insists he is reformed but has his finger in every pie and has been courting the Russian tycoons. With Cafferty\u2019s involvement, Rebus sees an opportunity to finish him off for good before he ends his career. But it is important to him that he be the person who does it -- and he wants it done with \u201cmess and fuss and blood\u201d. The more Rebus and Clarke dig, the more their leads take them to politicians and bankers. They both suspect a conspiracy, but their superiors want to label it a mugging and close the case. Then three days before his scheduled retirement, Rebus in his usual obstinate and difficult way, loses his cool with a high ranking banking executive\u2019s casual arrogance and is suspended, forcing him to continue his investigation outside the police force. Rankin cleverly weaves the various plot threads together amid his references to songs, singers and bands which always characterize his narratives. Similar to his latest installments in the series, Rankin places his novel in the context of important historical events. In Fleshsmarket Close it was the plight of illegal immigrants. In The Naming of the Dead, it was the G8 Summit at Gleneagles in July of 2005. This time there are references to the poisoning of former KGB officer Alexander Litvenenko in London, the continued push by the Scottish National Party for Scottish independence and the widespread criticism of the new budget bloating parliament buildings. Rankin maintains his reputation for deft plotting and great dialogue. And Rankin closes the novel with a twist and a great cliffhanger. So the question for loyal readers of the series is what comes next. What will happen to the rude, crotchety, disheveled inspector, who drinks too much whiskey, smokes too many cigarettes, eats too many bacon rolls, distrusts authority and cares too much about justice. No one truly believes he has seen the last of him despite the fact Rebus has handed in his warrant card and left the police force. Will Siobhan Clarke become the new Inspector, coached from outside by Rebus, a private citizen? Or will Rebus join some other division of police work as a contract worker? We are all waiting for the next step, knowing that this is Rebus\u2019 retirement but not the end of him. ...more", "Title": "Exit Music"},
