{"Comments": "<+++>Gould's Book of Fish: A Novel in Twelve Fish</+++>If,<---M> like Gould</---M>, we gaze into life\u2019s ocean and paint what we sea, will the fish be like us, the fish be like me? The answer is yes. When, like Gould, we search for the hero to our history, the savior of our story and find that files were god\u2019s joke on memory and that beauty is life\u2019s revolt against life , is it ok, like Percy Shelly, to pause and reflect that we were injured, and that means memory? The answer is yes. When we realize that definitions belong to the definer, not the defined; when we come If, like Gould, we gaze into life\u2019s ocean and paint what we sea, will the fish be like us, the fish be like me? The answer is yes. When, like Gould, we search for the hero to our history, the savior of our story and find that files were god\u2019s joke on memory and that beauty is life\u2019s revolt against life , is it ok, like Percy Shelly, to pause and reflect that we were injured, and that means memory? The answer is yes. When we realize that definitions belong to the definer, not the defined; when we come to the comforting conclusion that books are the tongue of divine wisdom , and that, by definer\u2019s definition, means they are nothing more than follies destined forever to be misunderstood , may we at least come to the place, like Gould, where we recognize that the flashpoint of event to memory is anything but truth? Now we are asking the right question. ...more There are times when, as a book reviewer, it is tempting to simply put the adjectives on hold; when mere descriptors seem paltry next to the indescribable beauty of the book itself. <---A>Richard Flanagan</---A>'s Gould's Book of Fish is that kind of book. Reading it open mouthed, gasping at the richness and complexity of the text that clearly defies categorisation and classification, one feels intimately connected, while in awe of what the author has produced. Gould's Book of Fish is a serious read; one of There are times when, as a book reviewer, it is tempting to simply put the adjectives on hold; when mere descriptors seem paltry next to the indescribable beauty of the book itself. Richard Flanagan's Gould's Book of Fish is that kind of book. Reading it open mouthed, gasping at the richness and complexity of the text that clearly defies categorisation and classification, one feels intimately connected, while in awe of what the author has produced. Gould's Book of Fish is a serious read; one of those desert island books you can read again and again and find still more meaning in its strange depths; both confirmation and destruction of those things you believe in (<---B>and cannot articulate</---B>). The book simultaneously makes a mockery of language, history, love, and humanity, while celebrating, and even immortalising them, much as Joyce's Finnegans Wake, or Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury did for the last century, although with a more straightforward storyline. Both Joyce and Faulkner are celebrated in the novel, as are other great authors from history such as Flaubert, Hugo, Blake, Keats, Cervantes, Sterne, Wordsworth, Pope, Borges, Voltaire, and Conrad. For all of the shifts in Gould's Book of Fish, with things like time, history, identity, and power all variable, there are some constants, and this is the basis on which the book is built.<---F> Love is one of those constants</---F>. Another is its corollaries, racism, brutality, and hatred - clear and obvious evils. A third and more subtle constant is that sense of the mysterious beauty in life, and the world: \"The knowledge of a world so awful, this sense of a life so extraordinary - how am I to resolve them?\" Ultimately, as Gould says, this is a book about life, not death, and despite the inherent sadness, the brutality, the grossness, and the torture, what remains with the reader is how we ultimately escape with Gould; how the love, beauty, and even the story, remains, shining and glorious. In its gorgeous use of language, its extraordinary structure, its ambitiously realised depths, and above all, the magic it works on its reader, Gould's Book of Fish is a masterpiece. Read it for the interesting story, and find yourself, like Hammett, lost in its labyrinth depths, obsessed, changed forever, and your unrequited love of literature both challenged, and invigorated. ...more Fish? Well, why not? Maybe we have lost the ability, that sixth sense that allows us to see the miracles and have visions and understand that we are something other, larger than we have been told. Maybe evolution has been going on in reverse longer than I suspect, and we are already sad, dumb fish. Hard to argue with that, although any resemblance I may share with the pot-bellied seahorse is purely coincidental. This is a beautiful book, for all its scabrous people and doings. It is, as any good bl Fish? Well, why not? Maybe we have lost the ability, that sixth sense that allows us to see the miracles and have visions and understand that we are something other, larger than we have been told. Maybe evolution has been going on in reverse longer than I suspect, and we are already sad, dumb fish. Hard to argue with that, although any resemblance I may share with the pot-bellied seahorse is purely coincidental. This is a beautiful book, for all its scabrous people and doings. It is, as any good blurbist will tell you, wonderfully imagined. A modern-day con-man finds a book of watercolour-painted fish with accompanying text from a convict in early 19th century Australia. Is it real? Soon we are swimming in the story of that book, of cruel confinement, drugged visions of grandeur, race, sex, every emotion and every type of man, a fine kettle of fish. While there is allegory to satisfy the biggest Thomas Mann fan, there is also writing that provokes as it amuses. In one sentence he eviscerates an entire legal system: In that courtroom there was a lot of dark wood trying to take itself seriously . Seriously. If you've spent any time in the majesty of the law, you will appreciate that that single sentence defines it even as it destroys it. Yet, our protagonist, finding himself in the dock, is able to reflect: Because you see I was born not an evil man, but simply the bastard issue of a fair day's passion, a folly, a three-thimble trick like my present name, & beneath whichever one you lift there is . . . nothing. That's some writing chops there. But he's not done: My real crime was seeing the world for what it is & painting it as a fish. The 'kettle' is not simply an island penal colony, but the European system that would send men there, a \"Europe exploding into a thousand atonal notes.\" See Thomas Mann reference above. At best a picture, a book are only open doors inviting you into an empty house, & once inside you just have to make the rest up as well as you can. This book is subtitled A Novel in Twelve Fish and there are indeed twelve chapters, each with a wonderful painting of a fish, twelve different types of fish. There are a dozen or so colleagues on the floor where I work. It was fun and relatively easy to assign a matching fish to each one. Oh, Serpent Eel, you know who you are. The Weedy Seadragon, the Kelpy, the Stargazer, the Striped Cowfish, the Crested Weedfish, the Silver Dory, the Freshwater Crayfish, the Porcupine Fish, the Leatherjacket, the Sawtooth Shark, and, you know, like I said, the Pot-Bellied Seahorse. I like my fellow fish , Richard Flanagan writes. But he also says: I simply had spent too much time in their company, staring at them, committing the near criminal folly of thinking there was something individually human about them, when the truth is that there is something irretrievable fishy about us all . I have to read all Richard Flanagan's other books now. ...more Billy Gould, prisoner, Sarah Island Penal Colony, Tasmania, 1830ish: \u201cThe truth is that there is something irretrievably fishy about us all. For many years I have been painting fish, & I would have to say that what once was an imposition \u2013 what started out as an order, became a cosy push then a criminal act \u2013 is now my love. At first I tried, in spite of my artistick shortcomings, to create a record of this place, a history of its people & its stories, & all of it was to be fish. At t Billy Gould, prisoner, Sarah Island Penal Colony, Tasmania, 1830ish: \u201cThe truth is that there is something irretrievably fishy about us all. For many years I have been painting fish, & I would have to say that what once was an imposition \u2013 what started out as an order, became a cosy push then a criminal act \u2013 is now my love. At first I tried, in spite of my artistick shortcomings, to create a record of this place, a history of its people & its stories, & all of it was to be fish. At the beginning, it was to be every last one of them, all those faceless people who have no portraits, who only exist beyond their bodies as a sentence of exile, a convict indent record, a list of floggings, a tattooed initial on a fellow felon\u2019s chest or arms, gunpowder blue and hair-forested; a penny love token hanging around a heavy wrinkled neck recalled as a young woman\u2019s firm, sweet flesh; a memory fading quicker than hope.\u201d This is my favorite read of 2012 (not published this year but read this year). It\u2019s my favorite sort of novel, which is the kind that takes some oddment of historical fact about an obscure character \u2013 in this case a 19th century prisoner in an Australian penal colony who painted a book of fish -- and from it spins a fantastical yarn, part chronicle, part myth, narrated by (and this is the most important part) an irresistible voice. It is part eccentric explore, part irreverent but wondrous reverie, inevitably a love story, and wildly digressive, but like my favorite jazz it can riff away on the melody without losing it. The love part doesn't mean falsely sentimental because always there are harsh realities, and often these favorite novels of mine are tragedies, dealing as they do in the conundrums that are the life of \u201cthe common man\u201d and his/her apparent insignificance in the grand scheme of things, the twist being that one way or another we (us common men and women) do somehow anyway and goddamnit matter. Arthur Miller wrote an essay called Tragedy and the Common Man that gets at the heart of tragedy like no one else I've read on the subject. Always there\u2019s a character's \u201ctragic flaw\u201d (and in a penal colony, flaws abound), but Miller writes that the flaw \u201cneed be nothing but his unwillingness to remain passive in the face of what he conceives to be a challenge to his dignity,\u201d as in his human dignity. \u201cNo tragedy can therefore come about when its author fears to question absolutely everything, when he regards any institution, habit or custom as being either everlasting, immutable or inevitable. In the tragic view, the need of man to wholly realize himself is the only fixed star, and whatever it is that hedges his nature and lowers it is ripe for attack and examination . . . everything is in suspension, and in this stretching and tearing apart of the cosmos, in the very action of so doing, the character gains \u2018size,\u2019 the tragic stature. The commonest of men may take on that stature to the extent of his willingness to throw all he has into the contest, the battle to secure his rightful place in the world. . . In truth, tragedy implies more optimism than does comedy, in that its final result ought to be . . . the indestructible will of man to achieve his humanity.\u201d It's the struggle at the heart of all great novels, but tragedies most of all, and when honestly and well told, comedy is inherent in tragedy because you have to laugh, and there\u2019s no doing irony well without humor, and as for Billy Gould\u2019s tragedy -- I lost track of the times I laughed out loud, sometimes while also horrified or revolted, but that\u2019s the brilliance of Flanagan's telling of Gould's story, and it left no emotional stone unturned in this reader. Next to my painting I intend to make a bonfire of words, say anything if it illuminates a paltry moment of truth. Come closer, listen: I will tell you why I crawl close to the ground: because I choose to. Because I care not to live above it like they may fancy is the way to live, the place to be, so that they in their eyrie & guard towers might look down on the earth & us & judge it all as wanting. I care not to paint pretend pictures of long views which blur the particular & insult the living, those landscapes so beloved of Pobjoys, those landscapes that trash the truth as they reach ever upwards into the sky, as though we only know somewhere or somebody from a distance, while the truth is never far away but up close in the dirt, in the vile details of slime & filth along with the Devil, along with the Angels, & all snared up in the earth & us, all emobodied in the single pulse of a heart -- mine, yours, ours . . . The criticasters will say I am this small thing & my pictures that irrelevant thing. They will beat a bedlam outside and inside my poor head . . . But I am William Buelow Gould, party of one, undefinable, & my fish will free me. Why I am just getting around to reading this when the book was published 11 years ago I don\u2019t know, but once again I have GR to thank \u2013 in particular Tony\u2019s review \u2013 for bringing it to my attention. There\u2019s a decade of great reviews out there, and I\u2019ll now defer to a couple of favorites. Tony's at http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... and Michiko Kakutani in The New York Times at http://www.nytimes.com/2002/03/26/boo... ...more This novel of life in a penal colony on Sarah Island off Tasmania in the 1820's could be characterized as a scatological tragicomedy, as historical fantasy, and as a satire of the human race along the lines of Swift or Voltaire. The character William Gould, sentenced to life imprisonment for forgery he didn't commit, recounts his pathway of survival and tenuous hold on sanity and reaches toward meaning in his life by writing his story. Each chapter is linked to a painting of a specific species o This novel of life in a penal colony on Sarah Island off Tasmania in the 1820's could be characterized as a scatological tragicomedy, as historical fantasy, and as a satire of the human race along the lines of Swift or Voltaire. The character William Gould, sentenced to life imprisonment for forgery he didn't commit, recounts his pathway of survival and tenuous hold on sanity and reaches toward meaning in his life by writing his story. Each chapter is linked to a painting of a specific species of fish. Both the colonial masters and inmates of the prison are free to reinvent themselves. I loved this most about the book, the creation of a microcosm to portray the dynamic foundations of good and evil, civilization and barbarism, historical truth and distorted fantasy. The Commandant harnesses his free labor force for absurd schemes to recreate a new center of Enlightenment Europe replete with a railroad going nowhere and a Mah-Jong emporium. Gould fits in by painting forged Constables, fanciful scenery for the railroad, and murals for the gaming palace. The camp doctor Lempriere, dreaming of becoming a new Linneaus, commissions Gould for illustrations of fish and later collects skulls of slaughtered Aborigines to support anthropological preconceptions of Europeans as the master human species. This book constantly poses a contrast between man's inhumanity to man and the artistic creations of humanity. Gould's discovery that a writer has effectively erased history with a whitewashed account of the colony threatens his sanity. More and more he comes to see people in the guise of fish and fish as people. I loved this metaphor of art being both a form of madness and a refuge to counter the madness of the world. His art and his journal are what sustains him\u201d \u201c\u2026this business of smuggling hope might make them wonder, might be the axe that smashed the frozen sea within, might make the dead wake & swim free. And that wasn\u2019t a painting worth twopence, but something more criminal than stealing.\u201d It seems he represents all of us by his stuggling ambivalence: \u201cWhy is it that I am possessed of two entirely opposite emotions? \u2026why is it that I still can\u2019t help believing that the world is good & that without love I am nothing?\u201d Yet, \u201cany story will be better than the sorry truth that it wasn\u2019t the English who did this to us but ourselves So there you have it: two things & I can\u2019t bring them together & they are wrenching me apart. These two feelings, this knowledge of a world so awful, this sense of a life so extraordinary\u2014how am I to resolve them?...For I am not reconciled to this world.\u201d His words near the beginning distill the scope of this wondrous book: \u201cCast-iron collars, chains & spiked basils, the smell of men's dying souls & living bodies, along with the true humour of suffering, the wondrous truth of contempt, the glorious freedom of neglect, the inarticulable fear of many fish & my unrequited love for them: these things I have known & will never know again. I was hurt by this world into making my soul transparent for all to see as words & pictures, but I was allowed to do it unbeholden & undazzled by anything other than that same shivering naked soul.\u201d ...more This is such a truly different book...on life, on art, on fish, on the development of Van Diemen's Land and neighboring islands. It's fact and fiction and myth. Sometimes difficult to read but ultimately very worthwhile. Is it hallucination? imagination? mysticism? erotic fantasy? a gross combination of all? and summarized in the world of fish and man. This Novel in Twelve Fish is so much more than its title could ever state or imply. Under the guise of learning of Billy Gould's task to create pa This is such a truly different book...on life, on art, on fish, on the development of Van Diemen's Land and neighboring islands. It's fact and fiction and myth. Sometimes difficult to read but ultimately very worthwhile. Is it hallucination? imagination? mysticism? erotic fantasy? a gross combination of all? and summarized in the world of fish and man. This Novel in Twelve Fish is so much more than its title could ever state or imply. Under the guise of learning of Billy Gould's task to create paintings of fish, we readers will learn the history of much of mankind in the Southern Hemisphere, both native/black and newcomer/white and the newcomers' tenuous links to their home countries. Says Billy: Let me confess at this point, that never have I been so ill-prepared for a task as that of painting the Surgeon's fish.... A fish is a slippery & three dimensional monster that exists in all manner of curves, whose colouring & surfaces & translucent fins suggest the very reason & riddle of life. When forging money, I had always salved my conscience by concluding that I was merely extending the lie of commerce. But a fish is a truth.... (loc 1773) Billy Gould is obviously one of the newcomers, the conscripted. This land is not his chosen home. The fish are not initially his chosen task. But he comes to see a different world in the fish. I began to wonder whether, as each fish died, the world was reduced in the amount of love that you might know for such a creature. Whether there was that much less wonder & beauty left to go around as each fish was hauled up in the net. And if we kept on taking & plundering & killing, if the world kept on becoming ever more impoverished of love & wonder & beauty in consequence, what, in the end, would be left. (loc 2552) And one final quote from the book: Stories as written are progressive, sentence must build upon sentence as brick upon brick, yet the beauty of this life in its endless mystery is circular. Sun & moon, spheres endlessly circling. Black man, full circle; white man, bisected circle; life, the third circle, on & on, & round & round. (loc 4351) This is not an easy book. At times it can be uncomfortable, but it also can be beautiful and is full of insightful moments. This book of fish is ultimately a story of mankind on the earth, man against man, man against nature, man against himself. Quite a unique book. ...more This is a beautifully written book but it is not for me. I was fascinated with William Buelow Gould and I also love anything to do with fish. I fish, flyfishing, paint and love fish. So why didn't this book appeal to me? Well I really don't know. And as for the ending, well it was sheer fantasy... Shame, an excellent author but then I really think that the hard life of living in a brutal penal colony was all too much for me. The odd thing is that the author was born in Tamania and that is one of my This is a beautifully written book but it is not for me. I was fascinated with William Buelow Gould and I also love anything to do with fish. I fish, flyfishing, paint and love fish. So why didn't this book appeal to me? Well I really don't know. And as for the ending, well it was sheer fantasy... Shame, an excellent author but then I really think that the hard life of living in a brutal penal colony was all too much for me. The odd thing is that the author was born in Tamania and that is one of my dream places to travel too. ...more An afterthought - I ran into this rave review here the other day http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... and it made me think whew, an intelligent human being not only liked this pile of self-congratulatory rat's feces but loved it and wanted to marry it so this made me think... MAYBE I WAS A LITTLE HASTY Damn, I hate it when I'm not 100% right about everything all the time. Now I have to get this thing and try it again. This is the stuff of councelling sessions! ************** In David G's review of t An afterthought - I ran into this rave review here the other day http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... and it made me think whew, an intelligent human being not only liked this pile of self-congratulatory rat's feces but loved it and wanted to marry it so this made me think... MAYBE I WAS A LITTLE HASTY Damn, I hate it when I'm not 100% right about everything all the time. Now I have to get this thing and try it again. This is the stuff of councelling sessions! ************** In David G's review of the Sea the Sea by John Banville he described Mr Banville's novel as the first person narrative of a monomaniacal narcissist and it struck me that a whole group of modern novels fall into that category. You have to be a real expert to avoid your monomaniacal narcissists merely being bumptious bellyaching bores. So here's a little list (please add as appropriate) I FEARLESSLY NAME AND SHAME THE BORES Earthly Powers by Anthony Burgess - apparently a masterpiece, but I'll never find out The Mad Man by Samuel Delany Gould's Book of Fish - el blurbo says Throughout, Flanagan never loses the well-imagined voice of Gould's candor or the character's dense descriptive powers, talents that translate into a thrilling text that reads like a blend of Melville and Burgess - in your dreams, blurbmeister I the Supreme by Roa Bastos The Book of Evidence by John Banville - oh god, take away the memory of this whiny voice The Sea The Sea by Iris Murdoch - donated to this list by David so I don't have to read it, thanks DG Tropic of Cancer & everything else by the egregious Henry Miller Desolation Angels by Jack Kerouac (this is yes, a harsh judgement, after all I give this one a good star rating, but times change and Jack the Typer just didn't keep up with them) Vernon God Little by DBC Pierre - see Banville above The Farewell Symphony by Edmund White BUT IN THE RIGHT HANDS, IT CAN WORK PRETTY WELL The Beautiful Room is Empty by Edmund White (something happened to that boy) Lolita by Nabokov 1982 Janine by Alasdair Gray Money and other stuff I've yet to read by Martin Amis Such Times by Christopher Coe Any more for any more? ...more This book lies well beyond this reviewer's abilities. My copy of Gould's Book of Fish contains three pages of snippets from various magazines and newspapers, all praising the novel as wonderful and inventive - since the pages are printed on both sides it makes for a total of six pages of admiration for the book. I felt almost as if I was reading a popular paperback bestseller picked up at the local grocery store, and not the winner of the 2002 Commonwealth Writers Prize. Not that there's anything wrong with either! However, despite all the praise an My copy of Gould's Book of Fish contains three pages of snippets from various magazines and newspapers, all praising the novel as wonderful and inventive - since the pages are printed on both sides it makes for a total of six pages of admiration for the book. I felt almost as if I was reading a popular paperback bestseller picked up at the local grocery store, and not the winner of the 2002 Commonwealth Writers Prize. Not that there's anything wrong with either! However, despite all the praise and promise, Richard Flanagan's strange story of William Buelow Gould and his Book of Fish did not appeal to me as much as it did to admiring reviewers and adoring readers, who hailed it as - among other compliments - a \"seamless masterpiece\". A peculiar phrase which eerily struck me, as of all things I thought that the book came apart at the seams as it went on, leaving a mess in the end. The novel begins with the discovery of the eponymous Book of Fish by one Sid Hammet, an ex-con hobbling around Hobart Town without a greater sense of purpose. Hammet is a forger, who makes a living by buying off old and rotten furniture and selling it to unsuspecting tourists as antique relics of Tasmania's colorful past. During one of his sojourns in search of new finds, Hammet discovers the Book of Fish - a wondrous, improbable and incongruous story of and written by an ancient prisoner named William Buelow Gould. Despite his best efforts Hammet is unable to get the book authenticated - historians and art specialists deem it a clever forgery, an old fake - a product of a completely deranged mind, having perilously little to do with the reality of life in colonial Tasmania which it describes. Crushed by reality, Hammet nevertheless remains under the spell of the Book of Fish and its amazing illustrations, but loses it in a forgetful moment - leaving it on a countertop, to be never seen again. This event marks the end of the first introductory section of the novel - the second section is Hammet's attempt to restore Gould's work and write it down again, for posterity. Richard Flanagan's own tactic of having Hammet speak about the Book of Fish in superlatives alone, setting it up as an incredible and life-changing work does not do his novel a favor - conceptually it is a complex work, with a multilayered narration and attempts to probe the deep existential questions of history and identiy - but it is neither incredible nor lifechanging. At the same time, Flanagan takes precautions against it by making Hammet rewrite Gould's words from memory alone - therefore barring himself from possible criticism against inaccuracies and inconsistencies, lack of coherence, etc. But it never really worked for me: I was not sold on William Gould and his Book of Fish . Flanagan is obviously a good writer - when he wants to be. The first 40 pages - the Hammet section which encompasses his life in Tasmania and discovery of the book of fish - are among the best writing he has to offer in his book. Consider this short descriptive paragraph illustrating a melancholic early morning in Hobart Town during the winter. Snow mantled the mountains above the town. Mist billowed down the broad river, covering like a snow-falling quilt in which lay the quiet, mostly empty streets of Hobart. Through the chill beauty of the morning, a few figures clad in the motley of cold-day clothes scurried, then vanished. The mountain turned from white to grey then disappeared to brood behind black cloud. The town was passing into gentle sleep. Like lost dreams snow began waltzing through its hushed world. The beauty of this paragraph gets lost in the Book of Fish , which quickly descends into a nightmarish and claustrophobic vision of a single man locked up in Tasmanian prison. Colonial Australia offers a most fascinating place and period to set one's work in, and so many subjects to tackle - colonialism and crimes against the indigenous population, setting up of a new society, etc. Even the fact that it was the most brutal of the English penal colonies seems underplayed. I felt that all the potential was totally underused in the Book of Fish , where Tasmania is made no larger than one's backyard - while it is very much intentional as the novel is narrated by a convict who writes from prison, I couldn't help but wish for a more expansive vision. Flanagan's philosophical and existential musings often rang hollow and fell short of reaching their illuminating goal. I was spoiled by reading Matthew Kneale's fabulous historical novel English Passengers - which I praised highly in my review - and which became one of my favorite novels. Kneale wrote a novel set in the tradition of old sea tales, brilliantly juggling a multitude of different voices (there are at least 19 different narrators) to tell his story, which is funny, poignant, impactful and memorable. I did not feel this way about the Book of Fish , though I wished I would. Even the fact that William Buelow Gould was a real English painter who was sent as a convict to Tasmania, where he produced his Sketchbook of fishes - now an Australian World Heritage material - did not help: I felt that he deserved a proper voice, without post-modern shenanigans that the author wanted to engage in. Gould's story is interesting enough to write a whole novel upon - which is what a fellow Aussie, Peter Carey, did for the famous Australian bushranger Ned Kelly in his 2000 novel True History of the Kelly Gang , for which he won the Booker Prize (and which I revieved here ). Carey rightfully won the Booker for his novel, in which he presents the story of Ned Kelly from his point of view, paying extra attention to recreate the language that he might have used considering his education and upbringing and to create an Australia which would be full of the sense of place where Ned Kelly lived - hot, dusty, dangerous, wild and untamed land, populated by various colonist with various animosities against one another. That's a world worth reading about, where the whole continent is a prison. In the end, the Book of Fish falls prey to its own cleverness, and loses itself in the magical reality of a Tasmanian Prison and endless weird occurrences serving as the background for musings on the issue of authorship and authenticity. Richard Flanagan proved himself to be a good writer and might even write - or perhaps already has - a great book; but I don't think that this is it. Despite being complex and ambitious it ultimately steers off into territories bordering on platitudes and leaving few traces in memory, dissolving like a parchment thrown onto water. ...more (view spoiler) [ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler) ] The writing in this book is sheer genius; I don't care what anyone says...I absolutely loved this book. It might be off-putting for a lot of people...it is like a story within a story within a story and you could spend hours dissecting it. This is one of those books that you simply must read more than once, and if I'm correct, probably more than twice. My copy is absolutely loaded with post-its with remarks and questions & quotations...the sign of a good book for me, where there are more que The writing in this book is sheer genius; I don't care what anyone says...I absolutely loved this book. It might be off-putting for a lot of people...it is like a story within a story within a story and you could spend hours dissecting it. This is one of those books that you simply must read more than once, and if I'm correct, probably more than twice. My copy is absolutely loaded with post-its with remarks and questions & quotations...the sign of a good book for me, where there are more questions than answers and I know I'll be thinking about this for a long while. An unusual postmodern work which is blended with musings about love, sadness, emotion & anger. This one will be a joy to read again. now I'll try to give a brief (hah!) synopsis: The story, which has as one of its main themes the reinvention of self & of history, begins appropriately with Sid Hammett, who buys up cheap chairs & furniture, applies some bizarre treatments to them and sells them as antique Shaker pieces to Americans who want anything old that tells a story. Sid finds an old book shoved into an old meat safe which, when he takes it out, its cover becomes a \"mass of pulsing purple spots.\" (13) The book falls open to a the picture of a pot-bellied seahorse, and he sees a veritable hodge-podge of writing in all different colors, going every which way on the page. Sadly, he leaves the book on a counter in a bar and it disappears...so now he begins to transcribe what was in the book so he wouldn't forget it. What comes out of it is what we're reading and it is a tale that will suck you in from the outset. The main character, the \"author\" of Gould's Book of Fish is William Buelow Gould, who became a prisoner at Sarah Island in Tasmania in the 1820s. But as you read the book, it begins to become obvious that you don't really know exactly who is writing this work...who is Billy Gould? He is left in a London poorhouse under the care & tutelage of a priest who introduces him to the power of storytelling. After he gets older, he (now all of this is according to our narrator & let me just say here that as you read you're going to get hit head on with that old nemesis of unreliable narration) makes his way to America, where he meets none other than J. Audobon (who makes his appearance here as Jean Babeuf Audobon) and begins his career as a painter. But once again, fate (and the law) intervene, sending Gould back to England, and he is promptly arrested for forgery and sentenced to serve his time in a penal colony in Van Diemen's Land. While he is subject to all manner of torture as punishment, he is rescued by the surgeon, Lempriere, who firmly believes that Science will finally allow all of man's dominion to be known so that man's mastery of nature \"his final empire\" (129) will be known. Lempriere's real purpose is to have Gould paint fish so that Lempriere can assist one Cosmo Wheeler (a British scientist) in the taxonomy & classification of the known world, assuring a place for himself in the realm of science. So Gould is released from the torture of the chain gangs & begins to paint fish. Throughout the book are his stories about life in the penal colony at Sarah Island, the people with whom he is forced to share time and space, and his musings on history, books, writing & colonization, all punctuated and intertwined with his drawings of fish. Some of the character portraits are absurd, but each has a purpose and you need to not rush through the book, but read it very carefully. You will not be disappointed. I was absolutely astounded after having finished this book. I would recommend it to anyone who has patience & wants a superlative read, but not to people who want a cut and dried story & plot line with an ending that ties everything up. ...more Dear reader, if you decide you want to read this book, I have one burning hot tip for you: don't read The Fatal Shore immediately before it. Friends and wife told me this book was dark, disturbing etc... which it certainly would have been had I *not* been reading FS at the same time. But I was. So many of the dark incidents in Flanagan's novel are taken almost verbatim from Hughes' history that I couldn't really take them seriously the second time round. This points to a larger problem for Gould Dear reader, if you decide you want to read this book, I have one burning hot tip for you: don't read The Fatal Shore immediately before it. Friends and wife told me this book was dark, disturbing etc... which it certainly would have been had I *not* been reading FS at the same time. But I was. So many of the dark incidents in Flanagan's novel are taken almost verbatim from Hughes' history that I couldn't really take them seriously the second time round. This points to a larger problem for Gould's, for me at least: the book is so obviously built from other books. The Fatal Shore is the most obvious, but also, for instance, Ulysses, Heart of Darkness, Moby Dick, the poems of Rilke, Buddhist texts (definitely) and, possibly, Blood Meridian. So my reading experience consisted almost entirely in train-spotting of a fairly uninteresting variety. That said, I'm still an academic at heart, so: * Like Ulysses, Gould's is overly structured. Each chapter has at the very least a governing fish, a governing character, a governing characters and, to some degree, a governing style. Do you find this kind of thing interesting? I do so decreasingly. * Like Rilke and various Buddhist texts, there's a lot of stuff here about escaping from being human, searching for immediate experience and essentially just wanting to be a rock, because rocks don't do anything (or, at the very least, don't do anything wrong). (Also, there are *direct quotes from Rilke*. The anachronisms aren't crippling, but the tiresomeness of writing from the perspective of a non-literary type who is obsessed by Wordsworth and Rilke... well, just write from the perspective of a literary type if you want to do that). * Like every other book you've ever read, Gould's involves a lot of stuff about how love will save us all blah blah blah. Odd that it never works, even in books. Almost as if love wasn't actually enough to save anyone, but that the thought that it were is enough to salve the consciences of wealthy Westerners. * Like Moby Dick in the USA, Gould's is an allegory of Australian history. This is more my style. Less my style are the magical realist elements, but I accept that that is just subjective opinion. If you like magical realism, you'll probably like this--it's the Australian version: these aspects of Australian history (so the story goes) are unspoken, and (the book implies) can best be brought to the surface by allegorical/surrealist style. The fact that the book retells much of the story of the Fatal Shore kind of puts a dent in this, but for an Australian at least, it's fun to imagine that our history is important enough to require literary attention. * Like every postmodern book you've ever read, there's lots of recursiveness here. I don't find that particularly interesting in this case--the novel stands without it, and it adds nothing other than the obligatory \"oh, literature, it's so unreliable\" garbage (really? because I thought literature was a scientific observation of sub-molecular reality!), but perhaps you will. But I'm in quite a bind, because what I think is most valuable about the book is its willingness to deal with major intellectual and historical questions. The style is a bit tour-de-forcish, rather than being really enjoyable; the structure, as I said, is externally imposed and adds little. But the ideas are well worth thinking through. I was worried, I confess, when we got the dull \"oh, I'm just a character in a book, I have to destroy the book because words and art are just so constricting of my natural immediate experience\" stuff. And I was very upset when this was somehow combined with the \"love will save us all\" stuff. But then, so close to intellectual disaster, Flanagan saves his novel in the last few pages: Gould admits that these two positions are completely contradictory--that love is fundamentally human and cultural, not natural. And yet Gould *feels* them both. That's interesting. So, I'm not sure this is the masterpiece so many people claim, but I am sure it was well worth reading, and I'm excited by Flanagan's ambition. From what I can tell, his recent award winner is, well, not so ambitious. ...more Gould's Book of Fish is a modern postmodern parahistorical novel. I don\u2019t exactly know what it does mean but it sounds great. \u201cI had begun with the comforting conclusion that books are the tongue of divine wisdom, and had ended only with the thin hunch that all books are grand follies, destined forever to be misunderstood.\u201d All the history of humankind is a history of blood, tears and sweat\u2026 \u201c\u2026I have come to believe that trajectory is everything in this life, and though at the time it felt anything Gould's Book of Fish is a modern postmodern parahistorical novel. I don\u2019t exactly know what it does mean but it sounds great. \u201cI had begun with the comforting conclusion that books are the tongue of divine wisdom, and had ended only with the thin hunch that all books are grand follies, destined forever to be misunderstood.\u201d All the history of humankind is a history of blood, tears and sweat\u2026 \u201c\u2026I have come to believe that trajectory is everything in this life, and though at the time it felt anything other than promising, the trajectory of my life was that of a cannon ball fired into a sewer \u2013 hurtling through shit, but hurtling nevertheless.\u201d The history of humankind seems to be a history of feces too\u2026 And Richard Flanagan recounts it with a twisted panache and in an exquisitely metaphoric and flowery language. \u201cI was hauling a sled of lies called history through a wilderness. Time laughed.\u201d ...more Britain had some whack ideas. Remember that time they colonized an entire continent with convicts? That was whack. Gould\u2019s Book of Fish is the epistolary adventure of William Gould, a convict imprisoned on Sarah Island. Somewhere along the way he picked up enough painting skills to become an artist, and he starts painting fish for the island\u2019s science-and-status\u2013obsessed Surgeon instead of working on the chain gang. I enjoy books ( The Luminaries comes to mind) set in this frontier period of the Britain had some whack ideas. Remember that time they colonized an entire continent with convicts? That was whack. Gould\u2019s Book of Fish is the epistolary adventure of William Gould, a convict imprisoned on Sarah Island. Somewhere along the way he picked up enough painting skills to become an artist, and he starts painting fish for the island\u2019s science-and-status\u2013obsessed Surgeon instead of working on the chain gang. I enjoy books ( The Luminaries comes to mind) set in this frontier period of the colonization of Australia and New Zealand. Like The Luminaries , this book has a somewhat pretentious structure and style as Flanagan attempts to use Billy Gould to plumb the depths of human suffering and soul-searching. Each chapter is headlined by a particular fish from this book that Gould is working on, and the fish becomes a metaphor for the philosophical ramblings of that instalment in Gould\u2019s life. Basically this book is an account of Gould\u2019s suffering on Sarah Island, and of the various strange and nonsensical happenings that he witnesses there. Since we\u2019re being told this all from Gould\u2019s perspective, there are some serious unreliable narrator issues here. So it\u2019s not possible to take the events of the story at face value, to say, \u201cthis happened,\u201d and use that certainty as the metric by which we can judge Gould\u2019s rambling. Case in point: the characters of this book aren\u2019t so much people as they are examples of types of excess that afflict the human experience. (This is confirmed, in the most postmodern of ways, by the \u201cafterword\u201d note.) Each character is a facet of Gould\u2019s madness\u2014a madness that might have been exacerbated by his imprisonment but maybe has lurked there all along, lurks beneath all of us. Two things that I loved about this book. Firstly, Gould\u2019s narrative voice is rich. It\u2019s one thing to write a book set in a historical period and another thing to write with the voice of someone from that period. Through diction, sentence structure, and punctuation, Flanagan makes Gould\u2019s voice come alive. This makes the book entertaining despite the darkness inherent in Gould\u2019s experiences. Secondly, just when you think you\u2019ve seen all Flanagan has to offer, he manages to change things up and deliver an even crazier situation. He certainly has imagination, and it shows on every page here. This is a very creative book, and that made it more enjoyable. So what stops me from singing more than dull praises? Is it the weird ending? The bizarre use of a frame story that Flanagan never returns to (except with one passing reference)? Or the constant parade of deaths, either real or metaphorical, without much in the way of happiness? Gould\u2019s is a very Hobbesian view, mixed in with a certain amount of postmodern irony. Humans are just other animals, full of natural and atavistic urges. We pretend we suppress those urges, but that\u2019s a lie. And that\u2019s apparently the source of our unhappiness. This is a book that tries to be deep, and I suppose if you are willing to spend the time to study and analyze and prod it, you\u2019ll find those depths. Maybe I\u2019m just growing impatient in my old age. Maybe I\u2019m losing my enjoyment of subtext. Whatever the reason, Gould\u2019s Book of Fish was an adequate way to spend my time. But neither Gould\u2019s voice nor Flanagan\u2019s capacity for storytelling surprises could quite compensate for the almost desultory atmosphere that pervades the text. Maybe this will be the intensely philosophical, brooding text that you have been waiting for\u2014I can\u2019t discount that possibility. It just didn\u2019t speak to me. I know this because I\u2019m not particularly proud of the quality of this review. I could have spent more time talking more deeply about the philosophical underpinnings of this book. I just don\u2019t care enough about it to do so. I\u2019m going to go buy tea now instead. ...more This rollicking, raunchy, scatological, outrageous, hallucinatory, labyrinth, surreal faux history by Tasmanian Richard Flangan is told in the confessional voice of William Buelow Gould, a convict in 1827 on the British penal colony of Sarah's Island, off the coast of Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania). \"Once upon a time...long ago in a far-off place that everyone knows is not here or now or us.\" This pertains to the barbaric fable of this mind-bending, postmodern narrative. The real convict Gould w This rollicking, raunchy, scatological, outrageous, hallucinatory, labyrinth, surreal faux history by Tasmanian Richard Flangan is told in the confessional voice of William Buelow Gould, a convict in 1827 on the British penal colony of Sarah's Island, off the coast of Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania). \"Once upon a time...long ago in a far-off place that everyone knows is not here or now or us.\" This pertains to the barbaric fable of this mind-bending, postmodern narrative. The real convict Gould wrote a sketchbook of fishes--now recognized as a document of world significance by UNESCO--which are reproduced here and folded into the novel, replete with different color inks and a fish sketch for each chapter. The inks are made of whatever Gould can obtain (use your imagination, as he does) on the island, since paints are declined to him. Gould is imprisoned below the sea line, in a special cell consisting of a floating dead man and a water line that threatens to rise with the tides. It is here that his confession is told, one that, between the layers of verbosity, a compassionate story of humanity is told. Recognized as an artist of some worth upon arriving on the island, Gould was ordered to paint fish for the insane Dr. Lempiere, the island's British surgeon, a whale pig of a man who speaks loudly, in BLOCK LETTERS. Lempiere was obsessed with taxonomy. He hoped that breaking the world down into all its classifiable elements would help him get into the Royal Academy of Science. This classification also symbolizes the British colonialist approach to the prisoners, and the aboriginal people in general, who are classified as the lowest form of life. \"I was to paint fish, you see, all manner of sea life: sharks, crabs, octopuses, squid & penguins. But when I finished this work of my life, I stood back & to my horror saw all those images merge together into the outline of my face.\" The pseudo-science of phrenology was also on the rise then, the belief that character traits could be analyzed by the configurations of the skull. Says Lempiere: \"...NEW SCIENCE--NEW SOCIETY--NEW AGE--PHRENOLOGY, PARTICULARLY IN REGARD TO VANQUISHED AND INFERIOR RACES...\" Flanagan's imaginary autobiography gives voice to the heinous treatment and torture of prisoners on Sarah Island. The writing here is reminiscent of Pynchon, approaching sociopolitical subjects such as imperialism and racism through linguistic hijinx. Flanagan can seamlessly juxtapose a tender scene of love with a harrowing scene of abuse. Within the digressions and verbosity that is the hallmark style bestowed to Gould's narration lie the most potent, unspeakable truths of life and death in the penal colony. \"Death was in that heightened smell of raddled bodies & chancre-encrusted souls. Death arose in a miasma from gangrenous limbs and bloody rags of consumptive lungs. Death hid in the rancorous odor of beatings...with the insidious damp that invaded everything, was seeping out of sphincters rotting from repeated rapes. Death was in the overripe smell of mud fermenting...so many fetid exhalations of unheard screams, murders, mixed with the brine of a certain wordless horror...\" Gould, with his many colored inks, speaks to the reader of these wordless horrors. It will leave you mute and screaming; it will enfold you with its deafening cries. \"...So alone, so frightened, so wanting for what we are afraid to give tongue to.\" ...more Fish stories have a credibility problem. Even from the most trustworthy angler, they're slippery tales. When the teller is a forger, a liar, and a thief who admits that nothing he says can be believed, you're on guard. But when he confesses that he's also a fish, you're hooked. Richard Flanagan has written a book that's THIS BIG, surely the slipperiest, most outrageous novel of the year. Who else would dare start with a 40-page preface that describes the story we're about to read as wondrous, lum Fish stories have a credibility problem. Even from the most trustworthy angler, they're slippery tales. When the teller is a forger, a liar, and a thief who admits that nothing he says can be believed, you're on guard. But when he confesses that he's also a fish, you're hooked. Richard Flanagan has written a book that's THIS BIG, surely the slipperiest, most outrageous novel of the year. Who else would dare start with a 40-page preface that describes the story we're about to read as wondrous, luminous, and captivating? This is like setting off in the morning, promising to return for lunch with a dozen five-pound bass. The narrator of this introduction, a con artist who makes \"antique\" furniture for American tourists, reports that when he first found \"Gould's Book of Fish,\" its cover glowed with purple spots that spread up his arm. He notes that each chapter was written in different colored ink made from various body fluids and natural elements. \"It was,\" he admits, \"a dreadful hodgepodge\" of paper, dried fish skin, sail cloth, and burlap, all of it swimming in a narrative \"that never really started and never quite finished.\" As he turns the pages feverishly, they grow damp, and when he's done, there's nothing left but a puddle on the table. Distraught over the loss and infected by \"an unrequited love,\" he determines to rewrite \"Gould's Book of Fish\" himself. The publisher, Grove/Atlantic, has obliged by printing the chapters in different colored inks just like the one that got away. What follows this alternately lyrical and bombastic introduction is the weird and wild testimony of William Gould, a 19th-century convict on Sarah Island, the most notorious penal colony in Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania), then the most notorious penal system in the world. This is, after all, a place where hairy devils shriek through the brush. Gould is a forger imprisoned in a cage built below the tide line. Between the floodings that threaten to drown him twice a day, he manages to paint pictures for his jailer, who accepts them in exchange for a moldy piece of fat or a swift kick to the head. Since prisoners are forbidden to keep records of any kind, this chaotic journal of his life written with sea urchin spikes must be kept carefully hidden. (The dead man floating in his cell serves as the perfect companion: quiet and uncritical.) The story Gould tells of the land way down under is absolutely captivating. But be forewarned, it's also scatological and shockingly violent -- a cringing nightmare inversion of the elegant British society that constructed this place. The horror, the horror Abandoned in a jungle far from civilization with thousands of criminals as their virtual slaves, the authorities on Sarah Island descend into the kind of madness that confirms Lord Acton's prediction about absolute power. For a time, Gould is spared because his painting talent catches the eye of the colony's surgeon. Dr. Lempriere, a man almost as insane as his ravenous pet pig, believes that he can gain election to the Royal Society by producing an illustrated taxonomy of Tasmania's fish. This Dickensian character -- speaks broken phrases only -- CAPITAL LETTERS ALWAYS -- sets Gould to work producing watercolors, but those paintings lead to a commission from the ultimate authority. With the Commandant, Flanagan dives into the waters of Swift and Conrad and causes a wake of allegorical satire that washes through history, racism, politics, and technology. The Commandant is a character as absurd as he is frightening, a man wholly unhinged by isolation, hubris, and syphilis. Determined to re-create the wonders of Europe on his 1-mile-square island, he whispers orders to his minions behind a gold mask, selling off everything they need to survive in order to finance his fantasies. Even his most ridiculous schemes -- such as building a lavish railroad station to attract trains from the mainland -- shimmer with ominous terror. When the Commandant orders giant scenes of world vistas for his train to pass, Gould is happy to paint them. But his first love remains those sad sea creatures that splash through his mind continually. As symbols, the strange, big-eyed fish of Tasmania catch the light of a full spectrum of meanings, drawing him down into an ocean of sympathy big enough to wash away the differences between jailer and criminal, Aborigine and white, oppressor and oppressed. Beyond Tasmania Flanagan's previous novel, \" Death of a River Guide ,\" was a gorgeous, mystical history of Tasmania that transpires during the four minutes it takes its narrator to drown. \"Gould's Book of Fish\" is just as wet, but it swims in deeper waters. It may not win him a larger audience, but it will earn him a more passionate one. \"There is something irretrievably fishy about us all,\" says Gould, recalling that the early Christians used the same humble, enigmatic symbol. Approaching the colony's apocalyptic finish, he realizes that \"to love is not safe,\" but what choice does this fisher of men have? As the narrative loops back on itself in a series of mind-bending post-structural tricks, Flanagan develops a grander and more ghastly vision that leaps beyond his country's history toward the biggest questions that love and language can pose. The current is dangerously strong here, but the water is irresistible, and once again Flanagan is a death-defying guide. http://www.csmonitor.com/2002/0328/p1... ...more **SPOILERS AHEAD** This is the second book in the past month (following Colson Whitehead's The Intuitionist) where I've felt like the illustrious critics writing the glowing reviews that grace the jacket are like traders playing the futures market. There's no denying that Flanagan has great talent, but I'm not sure that Gould's Book of Fish is the masterpiece so many of the blurbs paint it to be, and it's certainly not (as one of them put it) \"a partial answer to the question of the relative valu **SPOILERS AHEAD** This is the second book in the past month (following Colson Whitehead's The Intuitionist) where I've felt like the illustrious critics writing the glowing reviews that grace the jacket are like traders playing the futures market. There's no denying that Flanagan has great talent, but I'm not sure that Gould's Book of Fish is the masterpiece so many of the blurbs paint it to be, and it's certainly not (as one of them put it) \"a partial answer to the question of the relative value of human existence.\" There is lots of imagination at work in the Book of Fish. The reconstruction of the colonization of Tasmania is fevered and vivid if a bit myopic at times (Sarah Island often seemed as if it were the size of someone's backyard, and the overall claustrophobic nature of the book, while probably intended to a degree, was a bit too much for me). The book's book about a book that's a reconstruction of a book that's a reconstruction of a book hook felt a bit familiar--kind of postmodern old hat at this point (the ghosts of House of Leaves, most of Eco's work, and Borges' \"Pierre Menard,\" and even Delany's Dhalgren hang heavy). This book feels like it very much wants to be about narrative structure, but loses that thread for much of the middle before picking it up again in the Crayfish chapter when Gould discovers that the registers he'd kidnapped from the penitentiary office are in fact the manuscript that he himself is living. The afterword, which reveals Fight Club-style that Gould has himself been all of the characters he's described, wants desperately to be clever, but it really adds nothing to the content of the book. It should be suckerpunch but it just produces a bemused \"...huh.\" What I got from The Book of Fish, what I take to be its central meaning, is that all history is invented. The main character (both Gould and Hammett) is a forger. The book is an elaborate recreation of nothing that ever happened. The multiplicity of personalities are really all products of the mind of the (invisible) writer. This revelation alone is not worth the 400+ pages it took to deliver. The mediations on racism, self-delusion, and the general savagery of human existence take up the bulk of the novel but are really just the (occasionally relevant) padding around the existential framing questions. I think Flanagan has it in him to write a Great Novel, but I don't think Book of Fish is it. It has great moments, great descriptions, some amusing or horrifying set-pieces, and a mostly good sense of place, but it feels like a dress-rehearsal for something truly significant. Too many of Flanagan's attempts at philosophical thought ring hollow or fall short of the meaning they're grasping for. Too many fragments go nowhere. I enjoyed reading it and will certainly look for other books by him, but I felt let down at the end. ...more Flanagan, Richard. Gould's Book of Fish: A Novel in 12 Fish (2001) ***** An extraordinary tale, funny, fascinating & debased A madness at once divine & profane is all that Gould sees & experiences in his wretched life, & all that he wants is rum & a soft place to lay his head. Yet all about him are madmen & such, Pickwickian monsters of depravity--& all about him are poverty & debauchery of the most bestial sort, & all he wants is a fine name to call his own &am Flanagan, Richard. Gould's Book of Fish: A Novel in 12 Fish (2001) ***** An extraordinary tale, funny, fascinating & debased A madness at once divine & profane is all that Gould sees & experiences in his wretched life, & all that he wants is rum & a soft place to lay his head. Yet all about him are madmen & such, Pickwickian monsters of depravity--& all about him are poverty & debauchery of the most bestial sort, & all he wants is a fine name to call his own & some legitimacy. Instead he finds himself a convict in Van Dieman's Land (Tasmania) in a penal colony on \"Sarah Island\" in a cell set near the rocks that line the shore, a cell that twice a day fills up with water forcing him to bob like a cork until his head nearly hits the ceiling, & then twice a day is emptied out to allow him to write his tale in cuttlefish ink & blood dipped from beneath his scabs upon a parchment of pages that contain his previously painted fish. The time is the early nineteenth century. It is the melancholy fortune of a modern Australian forger of antiques (to sell to gullible American tourists) & a kindred imbiber of spirits to discover in a decrepit \"meat safe\" this extraordinary book, Gould's Book of Fish, & to be mesmerized by it & its author only to discover that all the authorities in nineteenth century antiquities to whom he presents the book disparage it as a fraud & a fake & show him the door. And then, what is worse, as he is taking his physick of beer at a tavern it is lost or stolen, at any rate disappeared from him, so that it haunts his memory to a great distraction until at length he is forced to rewrite from memory the entire oeuvre. Thus we have the premise & the frame for this rather extraordinary historical novel from Down Under. It is a wicked tale of the debasement of humanity, spun out in a humorous & satirical style reminiscent at once of the great novelists of the nineteenth century, of Hawthorne & Dickens & Melville with backward glances at Voltaire, set in a milieu that suggests adventures in distant lands with pirates & various other scallywags, infused with the peculiar spirit of nineteenth century science, which Richard Flanagan both deprecates & celebrates. Overlaid is a veneer of artistick struggle & accomplishment culminating in the portraits of fish. Yes, fish. These fish (& a lobster & two sea horses) are reproduced in this beautiful volume in color prints at the beginning of chapters so that one can see how Flanagan's narrator (& himself) were taken with the artistry of the painter. The type in the pages of this book (which is interestingly enough published by Grove Press) is set in wine vermillion & sea creature green & in octopus black & some other colors--I believe. The beguiling colors fade & return on these old eyes like faint visions, depending on whether I am using artificial light to read by or have the advantage of the sun streaming in. In short, this is an extraordinary read, like nothing else coming out of the publishing factories these days, original to a startle, fascinating & funny, a work of art that gives one once again a reason to read fiction. --a review by Dennis Littrell ...more Dark, foul, and a little pretentious. This is one of those books where I can appreciate the author's gift of descriptive language but just find the subject matter repetitive and a bit much. Maybe someone at book club will disagree. :) This book took me ages to read simply cause of the language and the way it was written. I both loved it and loathed it in equal measure. It is complex but funny. I am not sure I actually understood all of it. What does it mean to be human? What does it mean to be alive, to be part of the great chain of life feeding upon and in turn being food for others. What does it mean to be a man stumbling and bumbling through life, one of life's victims, near the bottom of the food chain. Then through all your trials and tribulations to discover you are a part of something bigger than yourself. The sea. The place from which all life began, to return home to finally feel safe and at home. The story of a man, weak What does it mean to be human? What does it mean to be alive, to be part of the great chain of life feeding upon and in turn being food for others. What does it mean to be a man stumbling and bumbling through life, one of life's victims, near the bottom of the food chain. Then through all your trials and tribulations to discover you are a part of something bigger than yourself. The sea. The place from which all life began, to return home to finally feel safe and at home. The story of a man, weak and victimized who finds solace in fish. After being betrayed or abandoned by all his friends find his place. His peace. The ending brought tears to my eyes. Does this sound like the story for you? Than go watch the movie, The Incredible Mr. Limpet staring Don Knotts. You'll save yourself the time and trouble of reading this preening, posing, postmodern mess of a book. ...more This novel is unique in my experience. Well-written and constructed, it is a very appealing book. In an amazing fashion it tells a fascinating story of the lives of prisoners in nineteenth century Tasmania. It is told in the form of a book within a book, as the original \"Illuminated\" text morphs into the story of Billy Gould, an itinerant painter whose journeys end badly. The novel is a mix of meditations and wild stories, jumping to and fro, each outlandish scene to be superseded by one strange This novel is unique in my experience. Well-written and constructed, it is a very appealing book. In an amazing fashion it tells a fascinating story of the lives of prisoners in nineteenth century Tasmania. It is told in the form of a book within a book, as the original \"Illuminated\" text morphs into the story of Billy Gould, an itinerant painter whose journeys end badly. The novel is a mix of meditations and wild stories, jumping to and fro, each outlandish scene to be superseded by one stranger still. Along the way he even encounters another painter, John James Audubon. The book itself is beautiful and the story is a delight even as the author's style overwhelmed me. ...more I so looked forward to picking up this book. The idea of writing a novel around 12 fish was intriguing. However, roughly 100 pages in, I still didn't care for any of the characters, and while the writing was good, my apathy for the story was greater than my desire to finish. Consequently, my decision to pass it on to my local bookstore with the hopes that someone else will find it entertaining is the right decision for me. Unreliable Narrator. On one page he says he did not commit the crime of forgery for which he was confined to Sarah's Island prison. On another page, he says the only thing he knew how to do was create counterfeit documents. So when do you believe him and when do you not? Frankly, I found little of this believable, but perhaps that was the point. Or not. I know little enough of Australian history to know when the author was satirizing his history, telling us how stupid Westerners were (and often Unreliable Narrator. On one page he says he did not commit the crime of forgery for which he was confined to Sarah's Island prison. On another page, he says the only thing he knew how to do was create counterfeit documents. So when do you believe him and when do you not? Frankly, I found little of this believable, but perhaps that was the point. Or not. I know little enough of Australian history to know when the author was satirizing his history, telling us how stupid Westerners were (and often still are), and when he was just spinning a yarn. I guess a lot of professional reviewers could tell, or else they were too embarrassed to say they didn't get it either. One thing I thought often was that the judges of the Commonwealth Writers Prize (this was the winner in 2002) must have paid a nice tidy sum for whatever they were smoking when they read this. The text was gimmicky. The premise of the book was that it was written in the 1830s by the narrator William Buelow Gould. So, to make you think it came from an actual document, there were lots of ampersands and one type of misspelling of words. But only words like scientifick & fantasickally & artisick. This was annoying. 400 pages of annoying. ...more \"I scoop the roe out with my fingers, in truth it is not for this small salty pleasure that i covet the sea urchins, but for the bright purple spikes which it's shell is armoured like a lurid aquatic echidna.\" - Mixed with spittle & rancid pickled pork fat, he makes ink to paint his fish. La sf\u00e2r\u0219itul acestui roman, dup\u0103 ultima fraz\u0103 care d\u0103 un cu totul alt sens pove\u0219tii, am sim\u021bit nevoia s\u0103 o iau de la cap\u0103t - dar n-am f\u0103cut-o, pentru c\u0103 Gould's Book of Fish m-a stors deja de puteri. Pe c\u00e2t de dificil\u0103 \u0219i de chinuitoare a fost lectura, pe at\u00e2t de intens\u0103 \u0219i de obsedant\u0103 a fost povestea. Frumoas\u0103, minunat\u0103 - nu, nu a fost a\u0219a. A fost sumbr\u0103, dens\u0103, un adev\u0103rat labirint de personaje \u0219i \u00eent\u00e2mpl\u0103ri care se n\u0103ruie spre final, c\u00e2nd elementele pove\u0219tii nu se mai potrivesc, iar \u00een\u021belege La sf\u00e2r\u0219itul acestui roman, dup\u0103 ultima fraz\u0103 care d\u0103 un cu totul alt sens pove\u0219tii, am sim\u021bit nevoia s\u0103 o iau de la cap\u0103t - dar n-am f\u0103cut-o, pentru c\u0103 Gould's Book of Fish m-a stors deja de puteri. Pe c\u00e2t de dificil\u0103 \u0219i de chinuitoare a fost lectura, pe at\u00e2t de intens\u0103 \u0219i de obsedant\u0103 a fost povestea. Frumoas\u0103, minunat\u0103 - nu, nu a fost a\u0219a. A fost sumbr\u0103, dens\u0103, un adev\u0103rat labirint de personaje \u0219i \u00eent\u00e2mpl\u0103ri care se n\u0103ruie spre final, c\u00e2nd elementele pove\u0219tii nu se mai potrivesc, iar \u00een\u021belegerea noastr\u0103 se clatin\u0103 \u0219i ne arunc\u0103 \u00een confuzie. Chiar dac\u0103 nu totul este extraordinar la aceast\u0103 carte, scriitura excelent\u0103 a lui Flanagan \u0219i atmosfera obsedant\u0103 pe care o creeaz\u0103 au f\u0103cut din Gould's Book of Fish unul dintre cele mai bune romane pe care le-am citit p\u00e2n\u0103 acum. Unele pasaje sunt adev\u0103rate opere de art\u0103, \u00een felul \u00een care scriitorul \u00eembin\u0103 cuvintele, sensul, ritmul, muzicalitatea. Cu un limbaj care trece de la sordid la lirism, de la oroare la umor \u0219i de la registrul grotesc la cuget\u0103ri filozofice, autorul reu\u0219e\u0219te un tur de for\u021b\u0103 cum rar mi-a fost dat s\u0103 cunosc. \u00cens\u0103 toat\u0103 aceast\u0103 putere hipnotic\u0103 a scriiturii se poate sim\u021bi doar \u00een original, c\u0103ci traducerea rom\u00e2neasc\u0103 face un mare deserviciu romanului (dar despre asta \u00eemi v\u0103rs n\u0103duful pe blog). William Buelow Gould - be\u021biv, falsificator, pu\u0219c\u0103ria\u0219, Artist. Dac\u0103 via\u021ba de \u0219arlatan nu l-ar fi adus, \u00eempotriva voin\u021bei lui, din Anglia secolului XIX \u00een \u00eenchisorile din Tasmania, poate c\u0103 nu ar fi pictat niciodat\u0103 pe\u0219tii ce i-au asigurat ulterior nemurirea - c\u0103ci acest William Buelow Gould, pe care Richard Flanagan \u00eel readuce la via\u021b\u0103 \u00eentr-o poveste nebuneasc\u0103, a fost un om \u00een carne \u0219i oase. Picturile lui cu pe\u0219ti, create \u00eentr-una din cele mai crunte colonii penitenciare ale Imperiului Britanic, fac parte ast\u0103zi din patrimoniul UNESCO. Extraordinar, nu-i a\u0219a? Acest fapt nu este men\u021bionat explicit \u00een roman, dar povestea cap\u0103t\u0103 o cu totul alt\u0103 dimensiune \u0219tiind de la bun \u00eenceput c\u0103 protagonistul a existat \u00een realitate. \u00cens\u0103 Richard Flanagan nu ne men\u021bine prea mult timp pe t\u0103r\u00e2mul realit\u0103\u021bii - cu o imagina\u021bie debordant\u0103, sus\u021binut\u0103 de o scriitur\u0103 puternic\u0103, autorul ne poart\u0103 \u00eentr-o aventur\u0103 la grani\u021ba irealului, construind o istorie alternativ\u0103, \u00eenc\u0103rcat\u0103 de simboluri, a \u021b\u0103rii sale natale. Pe l\u00e2ng\u0103 povestea fic\u021bionalizat\u0103 a lui William Buelow Gould, Richard Flanagan reconstituie o parte din istoria coloniz\u0103rii Tasmaniei (\u021aara lui Van Diemen pe numele european), care, la \u00eenceputul secolului XIX, era o \u00eentindere necunoscut\u0103 populat\u0103 de aborigeni - h\u0103itui\u021bi \u0219i nimici\u021bi \u00een final de colonizatori \u0219i v\u00e2n\u0103torii de balene. Pe atunci, ora\u0219ul Hobart devenise o adev\u0103rat\u0103 colonie a arti\u0219tilor, transporta\u021bi \u00een Australia pentru diferite crime care ast\u0103zi par minore, dar \u00een acele vremuri erau aspru pedepsite de Imperiul Britanic (\u0219apte ani de \u00eenchisoare \u00een colonii pentru furtul unor perechi de pantofi). Dac\u0103 ave\u021bi chef de citit mai mult dec\u00e2t at\u00e2t, varianta lung\u0103 se afl\u0103 pe blog: http://lecturile-emei.blogspot.ro/201... ...more This is a magnificent novel, a surreal but sometimes brutally realistic wander through the live of a convict colony on an island off Van Dieman's Land (now Tasmania). William Buelow Gould, a convict is ordered to paint a book of fish and in the process learns to love fish and to wonder very much about the relationships between humans and the environment and between the native peoples of the island and their brutal colonisers, not to mention the convicts. It's a book with much food for thought an This is a magnificent novel, a surreal but sometimes brutally realistic wander through the live of a convict colony on an island off Van Dieman's Land (now Tasmania). William Buelow Gould, a convict is ordered to paint a book of fish and in the process learns to love fish and to wonder very much about the relationships between humans and the environment and between the native peoples of the island and their brutal colonisers, not to mention the convicts. It's a book with much food for thought and much heart rending and disturbing description of torture and other such. These two extracts below I thought were worth quoting here: I would prefer to ..... watch the thrush smashing the snails against a rock in the midst of a litter of other similarly shattered shells until it can free the meal inside. Much better than an illustrated inventory of thrush types, defined by claw similarities, by beak differences. Much better to hear the plaintive toot-toot of the nightingale when it is alarmed and see its young chicks freeze stock still in response than analyse a collection of stuffed birds in a glass case by radius of head and distance of extended wing tip. ******************************************* when I finished the painting and looked at that poor leatherjacket which now lay dead on the table I began to wonder whether, as each fish died, the world was reduced in the amount of love that you might know for such a creature. Whether there was that much less wonder and beauty in consequence, what, in the end, would be left? It began to worry me, you see, this destruction of fish, this attrition of love that we were blindly bringing about, & I imagined a world of the future as a barren samenessin which everyone had gorged so much fish that no more remained, & where Science knew absolutely every species & phylum & genus, but no-one knew love because it had disappeared with the fish. ...more This is the story of William Gould, a forger and a thief who is sent to Tasmania prison which is ruined by the Commandant - a lunatic tyrant in a gold mask who apparently was a convict himself also. Through the friendship with Tobias Lempriere - the island surgeon of Sarah Island, Gould starts to paint scientific illustrations of fish, following Darwin's example in another context of course. With these illustrations, Gould describes the perverse conditions of this prison in the beginning of the 19 This is the story of William Gould, a forger and a thief who is sent to Tasmania prison which is ruined by the Commandant - a lunatic tyrant in a gold mask who apparently was a convict himself also. Through the friendship with Tobias Lempriere - the island surgeon of Sarah Island, Gould starts to paint scientific illustrations of fish, following Darwin's example in another context of course. With these illustrations, Gould describes the perverse conditions of this prison in the beginning of the 19th century. However I must confess that this is not an easy book to read, on the contrary. 5* The Narrow Road to the Deep North 3* <+++>Gould's Book of Fish: A Novel in Twelve Fish</+++> TR Death of a River Guide ...more Unfinished. Stopped around 40%. Normally I'd be an ideal candidate for this sort of thing, but ye gods, it's atrocious. Some clever, wry bits which made me sad the rest was obscured by overblown prose that wasn't particularly fresh nor captivating. Oh, except when the author heavy-handedly hammered home The Message. Thanks, dude. Wouldn't have gotten that without ya. Ten pages (or so, I'm really not about to relook at the thing) in and all.<---C>Richard Flanagan</---C>", "Title": "Gould's Book of Fish: A Novel in Twelve Fish"},
