{"Comments": "A year ago I got through fifty pages of this book and quit in bored frustration. But its alluring squareness kept nagging at a little corner of my brain, and I gathered my will to finish it a year later. And I'm still not quite sure what I think about it. On one hand,<---M> it's full of superb writing</---M>, smartly constructed prose, quite lovely memorably fascinating passages. Whatever I may think about the plot or the characters or the narrative passing, there is no denying that <---A>Paul Harding</---A> sure knows how A year ago I got through fifty pages of this book and quit in bored frustration. But its alluring squareness kept nagging at a little corner of my brain, and I gathered my will to finish it a year later. And I'm still not quite sure what I think about it. On one hand, it's full of superb writing, smartly constructed prose, quite lovely memorably fascinating passages. Whatever I may think about the plot or the characters or the narrative passing, there is no denying that Paul Harding sure knows how to yield a pen (or a typewriter, or a computer keyboard, or a smartphone - whatever he chooses to compose on). \"And as the ax bites into the wood, be comforted in the fact that the ache in your heart and the confusion in your soul means that you are still alive, still human, and still open to the beauty of the world, even though you have done nothing to deserve it. And when you resent the ache in your heart, remember: You will be dead and buried soon enough.\" The ideas this little square book tackles are also profound enough and quite literary - thus the Pulitzer. It's the memory and identity and life as seen through dying, and dreams and pain and inevitable disappointments and humiliations, and the family relationships that define our complicated selves. Especially those of fathers and sons (once immortalized by Turgenev - Fathers and Sons ), full of hurt and pain, unexpected love and tenderness, and - hopefully - that one final moment of understanding. \"But after a handful of such stories, he began to talk about his father and his mother, his brother, Joe, and his sisters, about taking night courses to finish school and about becoming a father. He talked about blue snow and barrels of apples and splitting frozen wood so brittle that it rang when you split it. He talked about what it is like to be a grandparent for the first time and to think about what it is you will leave behind when you die. By the time the tape ran out an hour and a half later (after he had flipped it over once, almost without being conscious of doing so), and the RECORD button sprang up with a buzz, he was openly weeping and lamenting the loss of this world of light and hope.\" Oh yes, the unexpected beauty of simplest things in life and the beauty and pain of family are the driving force behind <+++>Tinkers</+++> . \"When his grandchildren had been little, they had asked if they could hide inside the clock. Now he wanted to gather them and open himself up, and hide them among his ribs and faintly ticking heart.\" --------------- We start the story introduced to George Crosby , an old man dying from cancer, surrounded by family, experiencing his house (a symbol of his life, perhaps?) crumbling around him in semi-delirious hallucinations interspersed with moments of touching clarity that fill the reader with the sense of deep sorrow for a man whose life is just about over , whose dignity at this point is a questionable point, whose family is around in this semi-apologetic awkwardness of those who get to keep on living. \"When he realized that the silence by which he had been confused was that of all of his clocks having been allowed to wind down, he understood that he was going to die in the bed where he lay.\" George, a clock-repairmen in his retirement, reflects on his father, Howard Crosby - the titular tinker of the 1920s backwoods, equipped with a cart, a mule, a list of items for sale and a soul of a poet or an artist trapped in a tinker's existence - and burdened with his dark secret: epilepsy which he hides from his children, a wife who is quiet and resilient and, as Howard eventually comes to see, resentful, as well as his son George whom he loves but who is deeply traumatized having had his father bite his hand during one of his grand mal seizures. \"His despair had not come from the fact that he was a fool; he knew he was a fool. His despair came from the fact that his wife saw him as a fool, as a useless tinker, a copier of bad verse from two-penny religious magazines, an epileptic, and could find no reason to turn her head and see him as something better.\" Howard is keenly attuned to the unexpected beauty of the world, enhanced further through his surreal quite-hallucinatory pre-seizure aura experiences. But what the rest of the world sees is a tinker crippled by his disease, a burden, a symbol of life gone wrong, a source of shame. Howard rebels - even though it means leaving his family behind. And years later, his son now retired is spending time tinkering with the clocks - tinkering like his father did, with clocks symbolizing pretty much everything your sharply attuned by your college English courses peppered with meanings and symbols and literary analysis and the significance of Holden Caulfield's hunting hat. And yet, while I appreciated the writing and the themes and such, I could not shake off the feeling that so much about this book felt - how would I phrase this? - artificial , brought together for the purpose of getting the most 'literary' meaning out of it, to make it a sort of a book that begs to be discussed in a college English course. It has the execution and the themes, but it felt it was lacking a cohesive narrative glue to bring the story together, to make the reader feel for the characters. It took me a while (a year, to be precise) to get past the point of not caring enough about the characters to be willing to continue with the story (and eventually at least Howard grew on me - but oh my, did that take time!). The clock repair manual segments interspersed throughout the book were clearly there to serve the important literary purpose - but to me had the jarring effect of pulling me out of the story and reminding me of the initial impression of smart artificialness of the story. And the characterization of Howard's wife - I could not shake off the feeling that a resentful unappreciated shrew of a wife is a device oh-too-frequently used in literature to underscore the vulnerability of a misunderstood sensitive and good male character. -------------- So here are my final impressions: smartly crafted book with all the necessary points built in to qualify for a literary prize - but with the lack of a spark to make it fully come alive.<---F> And therefore 3</---F>.5 stars from the brain, not the heart. But at least now I don't have its unfinished white squareness quietly and resentfully staring at me from the bookshelf. ...more I drip for the beauty of words, not sobbing, heaving tears, but slow wet salt that leaves a trail on gristled cheeks. <+++>Tinkers</+++> often reads more like a poem than a novel, holding extended passages describing nature or recollection in huge, meandering sentences that carry meaning and feeling like a swollen river delivers silt. It is not an easy read. Harding contemplates the tenuous borders of time, and the uncertain edges of reality. Life, existing under a lid, is limited, endangered This is the s I drip for the beauty of words, not sobbing, heaving tears, but slow wet salt that leaves a trail on gristled cheeks. Tinkers often reads more like a poem than a novel, holding extended passages describing nature or recollection in huge, meandering sentences that carry meaning and feeling like a swollen river delivers silt. It is not an easy read. Harding contemplates the tenuous borders of time, and the uncertain edges of reality. Life, existing under a lid, is limited, endangered This is the season\u2014preserving done, woodpile high, north wind up and getting cold, night showing up earlier every day, dark and ice pressing down from the north, down on the raw wood of their cabins, on the rough-cut rafters that sag and sometimes snap from the weight of the dark and the ice, burying families in their sleep, the dark and the ice and sometimes the red in the sky through trees: the heartbreak of a cold sun. The underlying nature of life, of reality lies just beyond our grasp The true essence, the secret recipe of the forest and the light and the dark was far too fine and subtle to be observed with my blunt eye\u2014water sac and nerves, miracle itself, fine itself: light catcher. But the thing itself is not forest and light and dark, but something else scattered by my coarse gaze, by my dumb intention. The quilt of leaves and light and shadow and ruffling breezes might part and I\u2019d be given a glimpse of what is on the other side; It is clear that what we see is not all there is. George has lived an orderly life, but now, at 80, he is dying. We follow along with his recollections. How do parents connect to children through generations? Where is permanence? George sees himself in a framed set of tiles, moving pieces about and pondering what will happen when the frame is filled and there are no empty spaces left. I will remain a set of impressions porous and open to combination with all of the other vitreous squares floating about in whoever else\u2019s frames, because there is always the space left in reserve for the rest of their own time, and to my great-grandchildren, with more spaces than tiles, I will be no more than the smoky arrangement of a set of rumors, and to their great-grandchildren nothing they ever know about, and so what army of strangers and ghosts has shaped and colored me until back to Adam George, who repairs clocks, has a fear of impermanence that is matched by his tinker father, Howard, who in turn contemplates the passing of his own father, a minister succumbing to madness. It seemed to me as if my father simply faded away. He became more and more difficult to see\u2026He leaked out of the world gradually, though. At first, he seemed merely vague or peripheral. But then he could no longer furnish the proper frame for his clothes\u2026the end came when we could no longer even see him, but felt him in brief disturbances of shadow or light, or as a slight pressure, as if the space one occupied suddenly had had something more packed into it, or we\u2019d catch some faint scent out of season, such as the snow melting into the wool of his winter coat But it is not death alone that gives birth to dissolution. Howard contemplates a separation short of passing So there is my son, already fading. The thought frightened him. The thought frightened because as soon as it came to him, he knew that it was true. He understood suddenly that even though his son knelt in front of him, familiar, mundane, he was already fading away, receding. This held particular sting for me, as my youngest is fluttering away to college in a few short weeks, and I contemplate the space she leaves behind. Can these generations come together somewhere? What is there behind the mask of nature? Is time rock-solid or vaporous? A transcendentalist\u2019s spirit clearly moves in Harding. His language celebrates nature while trying to see beyond the curtains. The weaver might have made one bad loop in the foliage of a sugar maple by the road and that one loop of whatever the thread might be wound from \u2013light, gravity, dark from start\u2014had somehow been worked loose by the wind in its constant worrying of white buds and green leaves and blood-and-orange leaves and bare branches and two of the pieces of whatever it is that this world is knot from had come loose from each other and there was maybe just a finger width\u2019s hole, which I was lucky enough to spot in the glittering leaves from this wagon of drawers and nimble enough to scale the silver trunk and brave enough to poke my finger into the tear, that might offer to the simple touch a measure of tranquility or reassurance. He shifts his perspectives from George to Howard to lesser characters, and includes in his tale entries from what I took to be a series of lectures by Howard\u2019s pastor-father, and entries from a supposed book on Horology. Some might find these troublesome as they definitely interrupt the narrative flow, but they did not seem too intrusive to me. If you are looking for action, you would be better served looking elsewhere. There are events in the book, but this is mostly a contemplation of time, life and the nature of existence, moving for the poetry of its language and stunning for the depth of its moving waters. I was blown away and am in need of repair. ...more This short book first book by Paul Harding explore the lives of three generations of a family - the nameless great-grandfather, a small-town preacher who slowly goes insane, who we only glimpse through the grandfather Howard's memories of him - the grandfather who ran off to protect his family from the epileptic fits that he inherited from his father, and the father George who, bitten severely by Howard during a fit, we see as a boy in his memories, but who in the present is dying on a hospital This short book first book by Paul Harding explore the lives of three generations of a family - the nameless great-grandfather, a small-town preacher who slowly goes insane, who we only glimpse through the grandfather Howard's memories of him - the grandfather who ran off to protect his family from the epileptic fits that he inherited from his father, and the father George who, bitten severely by Howard during a fit, we see as a boy in his memories, but who in the present is dying on a hospital bed in his home. There are also snippets of books about clocks and diaries. The title is derived from the fact that George tinkers with and fixes clocks and at one point Howard (we are never quite sure where but most likely Vermont or New Hampshire or Maine), before he runs off to become a grocer in Philadelphia, works as a tinker which was originally defined as an itinerant salesman which is indeed what he was. I suppose that the great-grandfather was a tinker in the sense that he worked long nights on sermons which he would never deliver, just tinkering with the words. The mood of the book reminded me a lot of the Bon Iver album For Emma, Forever Ago or Sun Kil Moon's Benji - a lonely, sad, mournful narrative of broken relationships and memories. It is beautifully written, but also very, very sad. A winter book, but not for when you are feeling blue. I am not sure that it was Pulitzer quality, but it was certainly a monumental effort for a first novel. ...more 4\u2605 Geez. Another Pulitzer winner with so much I loved about it but with enough that was irksome to leave me dissatisfied. (Not that that matters.) Beautiful writing and characters and sense of place and time, although they all got mixed up in my head and I think in the characters\u2019 heads as well. The generations of men kind of ended up all being the same person, or parts thereof. (Not that that matters either.) The original main character is dying (today) with grandchildren nearby. George tinkers 4\u2605 Geez. Another Pulitzer winner with so much I loved about it but with enough that was irksome to leave me dissatisfied. (Not that that matters.) Beautiful writing and characters and sense of place and time, although they all got mixed up in my head and I think in the characters\u2019 heads as well. The generations of men kind of ended up all being the same person, or parts thereof. (Not that that matters either.) The original main character is dying (today) with grandchildren nearby. George tinkers with clocks. His father, Howard, was a genuine tinker, travelling from outpost to outpost, farm to farm, selling bits and pieces, bibs and bobs, and effecting repairs as he could. Howard has seizures, which his wife successfully hides from the children, until one day, George watches, horrified, is pulled in to help, and has his hand horribly bitten as thanks. Nobody is ever the same after. And then we step back into Howard\u2019s memory of his own father\u2019s gradual descent into . . . something. Madness or dementia, Howard doesn\u2019t really know, and he has never told George about him. Both boys were badly affected by \u201clost\u201d fathers. The is first-person, third-person, and mixed up. It\u2019s easy to get lost. The descriptions are perfect of stoic, hard women and their tough love, their rough, COLD, hand-to-mouth lives that are in such contrast to the lyrical poetry of the odes to nature that permeate the writing. \u201cthe best part of the afternoon when folds of night mingled with bands of day.\u201d A tinker\u2019s lot is a hard one. Trying to sell things to people who can\u2019t afford anything other than the most basic soap powder can be soul-destroying. But Howard keeps hoping. \u201cNo woman ever bought a piece of jewelry. One might lift a pendant from its bed and rub it between her fingers. She would say, It sure is, when he said, Well, now, that\u2019s a beautiful piece. Sometimes he saw a woman\u2019s face seize for the slightest part of a second, the jewelry stirring some half-forgotten personal hope, some dreams from the distant cusp of marriage. Or her breath would hitch, as if something long hung on a nail or staked to a chain seemed to uncatch, but only for a second. The woman would hand back the trinket he offered. no, no, I guess not, Howard. \u201d The notion of alternate realities appears in different ways\u2014speculation as to whether we have shadow selves living different, better lives. It\u2019s the way some people think of Heaven \u2013 the place where our real lives will be, and of course they will be perfect . . . won\u2019t they? One such example involves a hermit whom Howard visits annually. Nobody knows anything about him or how he lives. There\u2019s never any sign of a fire, so how does he survive the harsh winters? \u201cHoward, instead of trying to explain the hermit\u2019s existence in terms of hearth fires and trappers\u2019 shacks, preferred the blank space the old man actually seemed to inhabit; he liked to think of some fold in the woods, some seam that only the hermit could sense and slip into. . . \u201d There are sermons interspersed and supposed excerpts from a clock book, none of which interested me. (Not that that matters.) There are many other religious references. I liked this one, from Howard again, after a seizure. \u201c. . . this morning brought fear that there hid somewhere on one of the back roads that he intended to canvass another seizure, a bolt of lightning coiled behind a rock or stump or within the hollow of a tree or some strange next and which his passing would trigger to spring, to explode, and to impale him. Such vanity! What gall to elect for yourself such attention, good or bad. Project yourself above yourself. Look at the top of your dusty hat: cheap felt, wilted and patched with scraps from the last wilted and patched felt hat. What a crown! What a king you are to deserve such displeasure, how important that God stop whatever is He is tending and pitch bolts at your head.\u201d I have said exactly that so often to people worried that God will smite them. Well, not exactly. I did really enjoy this, and my quibbles seem petty in retrospect. Looking back, I remember many fascinating episodes and ruminations, but I can\u2019t remember which boy/man said/felt what. Perhaps the intent was that they each be an extension of the other or that they overlap each other, or that we\u2019re all living at the same time. I don\u2019t pretend to know. (Not that that matters.) ...more Paul Harding\u2019s Tinkers is a profoundly moving meditation on death and time. I gave the book five stars and would rank it among the best of its kind. That\u2019s why I was particularly shocked, after finishing it, to see the overall rating of 3.3 among Goodreads users. Nonetheless, I do have a good idea why Tinkers resonated so deeply with me, personally. Harding manages to describe the process of dying in much the same way that I\u2019ve imagined it since losing my first close friend at the age of eightee Paul Harding\u2019s Tinkers is a profoundly moving meditation on death and time. I gave the book five stars and would rank it among the best of its kind. That\u2019s why I was particularly shocked, after finishing it, to see the overall rating of 3.3 among Goodreads users. Nonetheless, I do have a good idea why Tinkers resonated so deeply with me, personally. Harding manages to describe the process of dying in much the same way that I\u2019ve imagined it since losing my first close friend at the age of eighteen. I\u2019ve lost far too many more dear friends since then and, each time, I've pondered death a little more deeply but despite those often desperate efforts each subsequent death has found me, as ever, wholly unprepared. As such, this novel sheds some welcome light into one of the darker corners of my understanding. Tinkers is one in a long line of Pulitzer-winning novels that deals passionately with the concept of time and it does so in the context of the protagonist\u2019s impending demise. The novel takes place during the final eight days in the life of an 80 year-old man, marking down the hours to his death. Talk about poignant. Talk about focused. And yet, the narrative occasionally ranges off into momentary anarchy, showing the protagonist\u2019s inability to maintain focus in his final hours, demonstrating the delicate, often uncontrollable, natures of the human psyche, of life and, most of all, of death. The most beautiful elements of the book, to me, were Harding\u2019s descriptions of death itself: \u201cThe end came when we could no longer even see him, but felt him in brief disturbances of shadow or light, or as a slight pressure, as if the space one occupied suddenly had had something more packed into it\u2026 The world fell away from my father the way he fell away from us. We became his dream.\u201d Harding gives a circumspect, if meandering, view of the conventions of time and space in the context of death and, in doing so, he provides a spectacularly insightful examination of life itself. He places the concept of \u201creality\u201d in its proper place and questions whether there is any such thing, when placed against the larger backdrop of death. For such an immense subject, Tinkers is barely more than a novella. In less than 200 pages, Harding delves into the beauty of dew on a flower petal, the undying love between fathers and sons, and the question of whether time and space exist anywhere but within our selves. Tinkers is a deeply philosophical dialectic couched in the very simple story of a man\u2019s life and death, and I\u2019ve read nothing that comes closer to helping me comprehend the wondrous, and frighteningly diaphanous, nature of our existence. ...more This book is small and square. I bought it at the airport Barnes & Noble en route to my hometown for my Grandfather's funeral. It's lovely small squareness caught my eye. The description on the back which reads \"An old man lies dying.\" made me think it was serendipity. I read the first paragraph and it was all sealed up. This is some of the most wonderful writing I've come across in quite a long time. I'm thrilled to have found it and can't wait to share it. Lying in the bed in the middle of own living room , surrounded by family , among well-known things , listening to the clocks he used to repair , an old man embarks on a journey . But it is not an ordinary journey . While his weakened body heads for death and nothingness his disintegrate mind freely moves towards opposite direction having as a guide this unreliable companion that memory is . George Crosby , it\u2019s his name , watchmaker and handyman , plagued by hallucinations recollects his life . H Lying in the bed in the middle of own living room , surrounded by family , among well-known things , listening to the clocks he used to repair , an old man embarks on a journey . But it is not an ordinary journey . While his weakened body heads for death and nothingness his disintegrate mind freely moves towards opposite direction having as a guide this unreliable companion that memory is . George Crosby , it\u2019s his name , watchmaker and handyman , plagued by hallucinations recollects his life . Half dreaming , half sleeping shifts to family house to meet his father . Howard Crosby , suffering from epilepsy helpless house-to-house salesman , offering everything from soup to nuts , traveled forests and forbidding wilds of Maine to finally abandon family . Howard\u2019s father , a preacher , also disappeared one day , but earlier preached more and more convoluted and incomprehensible sermons , letting the world separate from him . Fathers and sons . George repairs clocks , his basement is full of them . Wall clocks , grandfather clocks , cuckoo clocks , pendulum clocks . George likes their an intricate mechanisms seeing in them metaphor of universe . Tinkers , small novel contrasting life with death , body with soul , time with eternity , man with nature is an attempt to understand and explore what life is and what is the humanity . It's contemplative , brimming with melancholia an elegy for passing time , father - son relationship and determinism of blood ties . It\u2019s restrained , spare , full of beautiful descriptions of nature , prose depicting that unusual landscape remaining after the battle which every human life is . ...more I came across this book while looking for a \u201cwinter read\u201d and was attracted to the cover. At the time I had just lost a long-distant great uncle whom I hadn\u2019t seen in many years and given this story was about an old man dying somehow it sounded strangely appealing to me. I struggled with the book in the beginning and even thought about not finishing it. There were many times I had no idea where the story was going, much like how the person on the cover must have felt, trudging through drifting s I came across this book while looking for a \u201cwinter read\u201d and was attracted to the cover. At the time I had just lost a long-distant great uncle whom I hadn\u2019t seen in many years and given this story was about an old man dying somehow it sounded strangely appealing to me. I struggled with the book in the beginning and even thought about not finishing it. There were many times I had no idea where the story was going, much like how the person on the cover must have felt, trudging through drifting snow in a blinding blizzard. About halfway through though, I finally came to appreciate this introspective story. As the main character lies dying he is going in and out of consciousness and we are told stories of his past, his father\u2019s and his grandfather\u2019s. It\u2019s a profound and moving story that makes you think about life and relationships, and making peace with loved ones. After finishing I had a much better appreciation for the beauty of this simple cover. This was not the most exciting read but the payoff ended up being surprisingly worth the effort. 4 stars ...more The story behind Tinkers is almost more fascinating than the book. It's a debut novel, and Harding had a hard time getting it published. A very small press--Bellevue (yes, affiliated with Bellevue Medical Center, NYC--they also produce a nice literary mag that publishes only works that deal with mind/body, life/death/loss, illness issues, etc.) and they printed a very limited number of copies. Along comes the PULITZER! In an interview Harding says he found out he won on the Pulitzer website befo The story behind Tinkers is almost more fascinating than the book. It's a debut novel, and Harding had a hard time getting it published. A very small press--Bellevue (yes, affiliated with Bellevue Medical Center, NYC--they also produce a nice literary mag that publishes only works that deal with mind/body, life/death/loss, illness issues, etc.) and they printed a very limited number of copies. Along comes the PULITZER! In an interview Harding says he found out he won on the Pulitzer website before he got the call. For aspiring writers, it's a fairy tale. The book? Interesting. Dense. Short. Faulkner-like. VERY literary. Lovely, complex language. Harding breaks rules--for example, he switches from past to present time from one paragraph to the next. The book opens focused on one character and then seems to be \"taken over\" by another. The \"frame\" of the story is a dying man's last hours, in countdown mode; he's remembering his relationship with his father and his father's life. The only problem is Harding shifts the POV and the reader learns firsthand about George's father--details George could never know. It's a good book, maybe groundbreaking in the way he gets away with departure from convention (but not in a quirky way, which seems to have been the trend lately, so good for him!). It's a lovely little book, powerful in its own way, and worth reading. ...more I'm giving up on critics. And on prizes too. This book won the Pulitzer and was lauded by the critics. I found it one of the most boring books I've come across in a long time. The fact that it was praised so highly bothers me. I started reading when I was about sixteen. I have not been without a book ever since and I'm seventy. I've read thousands of books, all the English, American, and Russian classics and all sorts in between. I think I have a feel for a good book if for no other reason than I'm giving up on critics. And on prizes too. This book won the Pulitzer and was lauded by the critics. I found it one of the most boring books I've come across in a long time. The fact that it was praised so highly bothers me. I started reading when I was about sixteen. I have not been without a book ever since and I'm seventy. I've read thousands of books, all the English, American, and Russian classics and all sorts in between. I think I have a feel for a good book if for no other reason than that I have agreed so often with the best critic of all, time. This book was touted for capturing a New England past. I grew up on a farm in New England and found little I recognized. It was praised for its depiction of a dying man and of his memories of his father and his love of fixing things - thus the title. Sorry, I did not connect. The novel has absolutely no plot. What was left then was the writing. That was what won it the critics praise and the prize. And this is what most bothered me. Self indulgent rambling is NOT beautiful writing. If I describe entering a room and saying hello to you in ten pages of musings on the love life of ants and the construction of window sashes in words with no poetic value it's a stretch to call my prose beautiful. When I think of beautiful writing I think of Proust or Lawrence Durrell in the Alexandria Quartet where the words flow like syrup to place you in the scene, to make you feel what the character is feeling. Wordsmithing doesn't do it. There will always be great writers, and maybe Harding will become one. What I question is will there be great readers? Will there be people who award prizes and praise to books with real merit or with there only be elitists praising what's different? ...more I just finished this book and I have no idea what I just read. Something about a father dying, his son dying, and how their lives meet only once more after the son is grown. I don't know. Passage of time, death is inevitable, clocks are like the universe, blah blah blah. Here is what I think the book is about: Guy gets married, wife was too young, wife resents husband and children, guy runs away, starts new life, his oldest son starts a life, son likes to fix clocks, both guys work a lot, money I just finished this book and I have no idea what I just read. Something about a father dying, his son dying, and how their lives meet only once more after the son is grown. I don't know. Passage of time, death is inevitable, clocks are like the universe, blah blah blah. Here is what I think the book is about: Guy gets married, wife was too young, wife resents husband and children, guy runs away, starts new life, his oldest son starts a life, son likes to fix clocks, both guys work a lot, money seems important, everyone dies. Maybe I needed to take more English courses in college or major in literature. Suzy, maybe you should take a stab at this one and tell me what I'm supposed to think, because right now all I think is that the constant references to clocks as metaphors for the passing of time is pretty damn obvious and a little redundant. The author teaches at Harvard, so I can only assume I'm missing something and the novel was wasted on me. ...more I'd love to reread this book one day and read it straight through without stopping (something I couldn't do as I was traveling). As it was, I did immediately reread many of its beautiful and complex sentences. After I finished the book, I thought of these sentences as a trail (perhaps that's because I did a lot of hiking on my trip!) that leads you back to where you started. I first read these sentences in pieces, stopping to think, letting my mind settle on ideas and images, until I got to the I'd love to reread this book one day and read it straight through without stopping (something I couldn't do as I was traveling). As it was, I did immediately reread many of its beautiful and complex sentences. After I finished the book, I thought of these sentences as a trail (perhaps that's because I did a lot of hiking on my trip!) that leads you back to where you started. I first read these sentences in pieces, stopping to think, letting my mind settle on ideas and images, until I got to the end of the sentence and then I immediately started the sentence over again, not stopping the second time until I got to its end. Both 'hikes' were enjoyable, each time bringing different pleasures and insights. I see that this book was published by the Bellevue Literary Press (affiliated with the NYU School of Medicine) and I understand why they did so -- not only for its obvious literary merits, but also for its treatment of epilepsy, mental illness and the human body as it is dying. ...more A few hyperincantatory pages early on. About an isolated American region possibly once known as \"Austere Caucasia\" before its people of starch, hoarfrost, and flint settled on \"Maine.\" Descriptive language too often expelled me from the garden o' reading. If, in 10 years, this unheralded book were recommended by a friend instead of by an affable author profile in the NYT re: the recent Pultizer Prize for fiction, I'd've probably been more generous -- and I also might not have finished it. Someth A few hyperincantatory pages early on. About an isolated American region possibly once known as \"Austere Caucasia\" before its people of starch, hoarfrost, and flint settled on \"Maine.\" Descriptive language too often expelled me from the garden o' reading. If, in 10 years, this unheralded book were recommended by a friend instead of by an affable author profile in the NYT re: the recent Pultizer Prize for fiction, I'd've probably been more generous -- and I also might not have finished it. Something cool: I think this might have been sneakily narrated by the boy in the book who sat by his grandfather's death bed and read to him, a boy who later recreates all these impressions about his grandfather and great-grandfather, a boy who says to his grandpop: \". . . I am a century wide. I think that I have my literal age but am surrounded in a radius of years. I think that these years of days, this near century of years, is a gift from you.\" ...more ELEGIAC refers either to those compositions that are like elegies or to a specific poetic meter used in Classical elegies. An elegy is a mournful, melancholic or plaintive poem, especially a funeral song or a lament for the dead. A tinker was originally an itinerant tinsmith, who mended household utensils. The term \"tinker\" was also used in British society to refer to marginalized persons. In this sense, \"tinker\" may mean: Irish Traveller, a nomadic or itinerant people of Irish origin; Scottish ELEGIAC refers either to those compositions that are like elegies or to a specific poetic meter used in Classical elegies. An elegy is a mournful, melancholic or plaintive poem, especially a funeral song or a lament for the dead. A tinker was originally an itinerant tinsmith, who mended household utensils. The term \"tinker\" was also used in British society to refer to marginalized persons. In this sense, \"tinker\" may mean: Irish Traveller, a nomadic or itinerant people of Irish origin; Scottish Travellers, a nomadic or intinerant people of Scottish origin; Gypsy or Quinqui. Two words that I learned while reading this short novel that won its author, Paul Harding, 42, a teacher of creative writing in Iowa, the 2010 Pulitzer Prizes for Letters. This is his first novel. Wow. Its blurb says that this \"is an elegiac meditation on love, loss and the fierce beauty of nature.\" The key word is elegiac. Because it is a story about 3 fathers and how the life of the previous affects the next one. George is an old man, a father, husband, brother, grandfather and dying of cancer and *how can he be so unlucky,* kidney failure. While on his death bed, he reminisces his own father, Howard , 70 years ago as a \"tinker\" who sells all sorts of things loaded in his caravan going from one place to another to support a family of 5 with George as the eldest. Howard is an epileptic and at one point he accidentally bites George's hand. George feels love, pity and hate for his father so he runs away from home but Howard finds him hiding in a mysterious house. Look closely at the picture on the book cover. It is Howard walking, because George has his caravan and renting a mule costs a dollar a day (this happened in 1920's when 2 dollars a day can support a day's needs of family with six members) on a snow covered field. Howard's father, Reverend Crosby is a Methodist pastor who suffers from Alzheimer's. Looks like being crazy in the head runs in the family but having these kinds of characters still work with Pulitzer kibitzers that's why this got the nod of those people. For me what made this novel quite extraordinary is its prose. Words are carefully selected, almost precise. For the detailed description of how to construct a bird's nest, to how the surrounding looks like, how in George's imagination the house and the sky seem to be falling on him in his deathbed. The elegiac mood persisted throughout the novel but you will end up triumphant and contented. Triumphant because you understand his message of parent's love being boundless and endless without spending so much time (like reading Midnight's Children for 5 days) and contented because when you close the book, there is something that remains in you: the reminder that you cherish the time you spent loving for your child (if you are a parent) or your still-living parent (if you are a child). In fact my favorite line has this: page 66 \"-but anyway, personal mysteries, like where is my father, why can't I stop all the moving and look out over the vast arrangements and find by the contours and colors and qualities of light where my father is, not to solve anything but just simplify even to see it again one last time, before what, before it ends, before it stops. But it doesn't stop; it simply ends. It is a final pattern scattered without so much as a pause at the end, at the end of what, at the end of this.\" Beautiful. Simply beautiful. ...more Paul Harding's first book, Tinkers has totally amazed and delighted me. The fact that such a tiny novel could convey so much so well is a tribute to his literary skills. In an editorial in the Boston Globe, on April 16, 2010, it was reported how Harding was unable to find a publisher, passing the manuscript around to many houses, until a small publisher (Bellevue Literary Press)agreed to do it.Several people urged that the book be entered for the Pulitzer Prize and to waive the $50 submission fe Paul Harding's first book, Tinkers has totally amazed and delighted me. The fact that such a tiny novel could convey so much so well is a tribute to his literary skills. In an editorial in the Boston Globe, on April 16, 2010, it was reported how Harding was unable to find a publisher, passing the manuscript around to many houses, until a small publisher (Bellevue Literary Press)agreed to do it.Several people urged that the book be entered for the Pulitzer Prize and to waive the $50 submission fee. The writer went on to state, \"Harding's rich prose drove some people to weep and many others to proselytize...it's worth remembering that some novels are still good enough to sell themselves.\" This causes me to wonder how many inferior books are accepted and even acclaimed! Tinkers is not a novel with a linear plot, yet Harding's prose is so compelling and rich it is difficult to put it aside. It is deceptively simple, yet complex. An old man, George, is dying and we read of his memories, often disjointed, but a treat to one's senses. Within these evanescent thoughts Howard, his father is introduced. The sections relating to Howard were particularly appealing to me. He was a peddlar, traveling many miles year round. Father and son were both tinkers, menders and repairers of machine parts; in this case clocks of all types. Harding has added some whimsy to his descriptions of ancient timepieces with his accounts of fictional, yet credible(!)clockmakers and historians. It would be easy to continue on and discuss each nugget that I discovered in this touching, sometimes humorous account. The passages of the seasons and the countryside were vivid, sometimes harsh, but often beautiful. Howard observed George fashioning a toy boat to sail: \"What of miniature boats constructed of birch bark and fallen leaves, launched onto cold water clear as air? How many fleets were pushed out toward the middles of ponds or sent down autumn brooks, holding treasures of acorns, or black feathers, or a puzzled mantis? Let those grassy crafts be listed alongside iron hulls that cleave the sea, for they are all improvisations built from the daydreams of men, and all will perish, whether from ocean seige or October breeze.\" (p.77) Among the many lovely run-on sentences in this novel, Harding has treated the reader with many tangible, engaging images. One of the most unusual is a scene of the moving of a huge house with the power of \"eight titanic oxen\". I have borrowed this book from the library, but I will now purchase it in order to further digest Harding's gifted, billiant language. I have been totally captivated. His words sing to me! I look forward to future efforts by this talented, imaginative author. ...more This was different from most reading experiences I've had because of Harding's use of language. Using simple language in non-simple, metaphorical ways, he describes the last days of an elderly man who is dying at home--the memories of his youth, his father, the natural world he recalls, the clocks he fixed as both vocation and avocation. The clock metaphor runs through the book and the descriptions of nature are poetic. Though this is a slim volume it is dense in what it presents to the reader. This was different from most reading experiences I've had because of Harding's use of language. Using simple language in non-simple, metaphorical ways, he describes the last days of an elderly man who is dying at home--the memories of his youth, his father, the natural world he recalls, the clocks he fixed as both vocation and avocation. The clock metaphor runs through the book and the descriptions of nature are poetic. Though this is a slim volume it is dense in what it presents to the reader. Take your time over it; enjoy the glory of the descriptive language. At times it may seem disjointed by moving between times and characters--father, son, grandfather--but I feel that this is more than compensated for by the overall effect of the descriptions of the natural world and the process of George's gentle dying surrounded by family. 10/10/13--after thinking about this for a while, I've decided to raise the rating to 5. I read this early in my time here at GR and I think that influenced my rating downward, having little for comparison here though plenty of reading experience. I hadn't thought qualitatively in the same way before. This book has stayed with me over the past 3 years and certain images remain, a mark of a very strong, wonderfully written book. ...more I tried, I tried to like 'Tinkers.' Everyone else does, right? It's a delightful surprise of a book, published by a tiny intellectual house, ignored by most of the major media, that came out of nowhere to the Pulitzer Prize and bestsellerdom. Paul Harding is a master of his craft, composer of exquisite and copious sentences stuffed with crystalline and erudite language. Many of them, though, are about repairing clocks. I don't know, I felt like he was showing off instead of telling a story. I st I tried, I tried to like 'Tinkers.' Everyone else does, right? It's a delightful surprise of a book, published by a tiny intellectual house, ignored by most of the major media, that came out of nowhere to the Pulitzer Prize and bestsellerdom. Paul Harding is a master of his craft, composer of exquisite and copious sentences stuffed with crystalline and erudite language. Many of them, though, are about repairing clocks. I don't know, I felt like he was showing off instead of telling a story. I struggled to get through this compact little book, and its meandering pages and pages of detail. There was a kind of story: a dying man and his unresolved relationship with his epileptic father, who deserted the family before his wife could commit him to a mental institution. Characters I could have loved, had there been more about them, and less about the light on fields and the springs of clocks. You can have a good story where nothing happens--I'm thinking of Chris Ware's 'Jimmy Corrigan,' also about a son's ambivalent paternal connection--but even with the most accomplished artist, for me, substance trumps style. There wasn't enough substance in 'Tinkers' for me. ...more I so, so recommend this...and not for narcissistic reasons. This is a book that transcends personal identity. It's about loneliness, human frailty, fathers and sons, time and eternity. It's about so many things! If you like dense, complex writing, you should definitely read this. And, slowly. And, repeatedly. \u201c Tinkers is truly remarkable\u2026 It confers on the reader the best privilege fiction can afford, the illusion of ghostly proximity to other human souls.\u201d\u2014Marilynne Robinson To me, it would have been a powerful story if it had been edited down to somewhere between 1/4 and 1/3 of its volume. In many cases there were so many side stories that had no bearing on the meat of the tale. Was it really important to fully describe the picture on the box of scissors he retrieved to make the woven frame in the field? As I was reading, I made a note to myself: too many pretty words strung together just for the sake of flowery prose. At times the writing was beautiful but at othe To me, it would have been a powerful story if it had been edited down to somewhere between 1/4 and 1/3 of its volume. In many cases there were so many side stories that had no bearing on the meat of the tale. Was it really important to fully describe the picture on the box of scissors he retrieved to make the woven frame in the field? As I was reading, I made a note to myself: too many pretty words strung together just for the sake of flowery prose. At times the writing was beautiful but at others it seemed superfluous. I think one of the elements of the writer\u2019s style that bothered me most though, was his tendency to repeat the same words in close proximity to each other. He did this quite a bit and I found it jarring to the eye. I\u2019d wonder if I was accidentally beginning to reread a phrase only to discover that no it was the author who seemed to be stuck in a loop. I understand repetition can be done for effect, but in my opinion he should have occasionally used a thesaurus. Clarity of meaning was often sacrificed in favor of the author's particular style. ...more So, I started writing two book about 30 years ago. One is a novel and one is kind of a memoir. They could not be more inchoate. Which is to say: I have written the first line of each book and not a sentence more. But I like the first lines. I won't write them here. But, so you know, each first line is about my father. For me, all of this - all of this - is an attempt to figure out just who the hell I am. No psychiatrist's couch for me. Just novels that bleed and paintings that cry; music (why doe So, I started writing two book about 30 years ago. One is a novel and one is kind of a memoir. They could not be more inchoate. Which is to say: I have written the first line of each book and not a sentence more. But I like the first lines. I won't write them here. But, so you know, each first line is about my father. For me, all of this - all of this - is an attempt to figure out just who the hell I am. No psychiatrist's couch for me. Just novels that bleed and paintings that cry; music (why does she turn the volume down in the car so she can talk on the cellphone?), always music. But I will never know who I am until I know who he was. Paul Harding has written here about Fathers and Sons. He has no ultimate answers either, but it's a wonderful ride. My father was a strange, gentle man . A well-placed comma. And, by the way, yes he was. His despair came from the the fact that his wife saw him as a fool, as a useless tinker, a copier of bad verse from two-penny religious magazines, an epileptic, and could find no reason to turn her head and see him as something better. I won't tell you the plot. That would miss the point. Instead, I would tell you, grow old. Feel the pain in your knees walking up the stairs and think about the shrapnel in his leg. Hold your grandson, and hope he will be there at the end. Err, and forgive him. ...more When I teach Plot in my creative writing classes, I return again and again to Anne Lamott who says, \"You need to be moving your characters forward, even if they only go slowly. Imagine moving them across a lily pond. If each lily pad is beautifully, carefully written, the reader will stay with you as you move toward the other side of the pond, needing only the barest of connections -- such as rhythm, tone, or mood ( Bird by Bird , 59). This is a lily pad novel. The writing is lovely, elegiac in to When I teach Plot in my creative writing classes, I return again and again to Anne Lamott who says, \"You need to be moving your characters forward, even if they only go slowly. Imagine moving them across a lily pond. If each lily pad is beautifully, carefully written, the reader will stay with you as you move toward the other side of the pond, needing only the barest of connections -- such as rhythm, tone, or mood ( Bird by Bird , 59). This is a lily pad novel. The writing is lovely, elegiac in tone, and meticulous. This may very well be enough for some readers. However, I am not sure these beautifully constructed lily pads were quite enough for me. Perhaps the pond beneath was too murky. This novel purports to be the story of George Washington Crosby, a clock repairman, as he lies on his deathbed. However, the novel's locus soon shifts to George's father, Howard, an epileptic traveling salesman who abandons his family when his wife decides to have him committed. We also see glimpses of Howard's father, a failed preacher. The book shifts back and forth among these characters, revealing the tenuous relationships that exist between these fathers and sons. While very little actually happens in the novel by way of plot, its scope is fairly grand, examining themes of fatherhood and absence and inheritance. But what I found most frustrating about this novel was not that so little happened, but that those events that were dramatized felt (at times) arbitrary. I wanted Harding to achieve what Tobias Wolf manages in \"Bullet in the Brain\" . But while Wolf captures (in three pages) an entire life in that moment before death, I felt like I had only the most impressionistic sense of George's life after nearly 200 pages in Harding's novel. This coupled with the also seemingly arbitrary shifts in point of view and lack of any cohesive structure left me frustrated and eager for the novel to end. I champion the quiet novel, and there was much to be admired in Harding's ambition and prose. But there are other novels and stories that have done it better; Evening by Susan Minot is one. ...more If I could give this book 500 stars, I would. It was beyond description in its beauty. As soon as I finished, I wanted to reread it. My friend Nellie who recommended it to me said, \"The book is one giant quote.\" She was right. There was not a sentence that didn't make me ache in the best possible way. \"When the grandchildren had been little, they had asked if they could hide inside the clock. Now he wanted to gather them and open himself up and hide them among his ribs and faintly ticking heart.\" I picked up this book because (a) it was short and (b) it won the Pulitzer Prize. Sigh. For my tastes, it was actually two books: one was a set of compelling, clearly written and effective narratives about a dying man, George Crosby, his father, Howard and the people in their lives. The other was what I would call \"Iowa Writers Workshop 101\", including passages like this: \"The true essence, the secret recipe of the forest and the light and the dark was too fine and subtle to be observed with my blu I picked up this book because (a) it was short and (b) it won the Pulitzer Prize. Sigh. For my tastes, it was actually two books: one was a set of compelling, clearly written and effective narratives about a dying man, George Crosby, his father, Howard and the people in their lives. The other was what I would call \"Iowa Writers Workshop 101\", including passages like this: \"The true essence, the secret recipe of the forest and the light and the dark was too fine and subtle to be observed with my blunt eye -- water sac and nerves, miracle itself, fine itself, light catcher. But the thing itself is not forest and light and dark, but something else scattered by my dumb intention ...\" And so forth and so on. If I had been able to weed out all these blowsy descriptions and musings, I would have been left with a 100-page novella of a father and son, with strong characters, compelling anecdotes, and a lot of pain and loss. As it was, I also had to roll up my pantlegs and slosh through the marsh of ephemera, and once I reached solid ground, I found myself once again sighing at the state of modern literary novels. ...more It's truly a testament to an author's ability to write when he puts me to sleep after two pages. I don't think if I tried I could bore a reader to sleep in two pages. I mean how does that even work? I have no idea what the story is about nor who the characters are, yet by the middle of page two I want to slit my wrists. This actually won the Pulitzer? So I guess that's as meaningless as any other award. What's so awful about telling a story? Why is that so loathed among \"writers\" today? Why does It's truly a testament to an author's ability to write when he puts me to sleep after two pages. I don't think if I tried I could bore a reader to sleep in two pages. I mean how does that even work? I have no idea what the story is about nor who the characters are, yet by the middle of page two I want to slit my wrists. This actually won the Pulitzer? So I guess that's as meaningless as any other award. What's so awful about telling a story? Why is that so loathed among \"writers\" today? Why does anyone think that character background equals a book? This is apparently the touching story of an old man about to die who thinks back on his life. Imagine a person sitting down beside you and saying, \"Let me tell about this guy I once knew, let me just tell you about his whole life, in sort of random order.\" Would you not blow your brains out? The writing could not be more blandly professional. There is not an original thought in here, at least in as much as I read, which wasn't much, I couldn't help but skim it until I fell asleep. Umm...Nick, if mom is reading this review to you--sorry! Thanks for the thought! ...more This is like walking through a beautifully ornate, nostalgically built maze - each path you take opens possibilities and intrigue, and oops, the path is walled off, the trajectory cut, and you try another one, this one narrower, more nuanced, the path is promising, the wonderfully constructed and visually stunning way is... Ah! its severed. Another one,and...and they all interlace like the components of the bird nest that was described herein to a T. The author apparently was rejected by everyon This is like walking through a beautifully ornate, nostalgically built maze - each path you take opens possibilities and intrigue, and oops, the path is walled off, the trajectory cut, and you try another one, this one narrower, more nuanced, the path is promising, the wonderfully constructed and visually stunning way is... Ah! its severed. Another one,and...and they all interlace like the components of the bird nest that was described herein to a T. The author apparently was rejected by everyone and had to get a small independent publisher to take the manuscript. It won the Pulitzer Prize and he didn't even have to kill himself. ...more Oh my, I have heard so much praise for this book and this author. Well, it didn't work for me - not at all! First of all I tend to like looooooong stories and this is short. Secondly, the writing is all over the place, one minute poetical and then down to earth, matter of fact and simplistic. Sometimes sentences were numbered! Why? I would listen to a line and think, \"What IS the author trying to say with that sentence?! What is his message?\" I had no idea. Some of his descriptions of light, how Oh my, I have heard so much praise for this book and this author. Well, it didn't work for me - not at all! First of all I tend to like looooooong stories and this is short. Secondly, the writing is all over the place, one minute poetical and then down to earth, matter of fact and simplistic. Sometimes sentences were numbered! Why? I would listen to a line and think, \"What IS the author trying to say with that sentence?! What is his message?\" I had no idea. Some of his descriptions of light, how it can sparkle and refract on an early morning walk in the countryside, these passages enticed me, but they were all too few. When the author focuses on relationship and interactions between people, if I was moved at all, I found his views depressing. The author chooses to depict horrible moments of strife, of failure, of inadequacies. Life is not made up of just those. The book is about father(priest), son(tinker) and grandson. The lives and the sons' interactions with their parents are depicted, not in a straightforward manner but delivered as memories and glimpses of past events, as personal reveries, in a rambling fashion without cohesion or engagement. The book is told as the grandson lies dying, surrounded by his family. But this meeting is just plain icky; it focuses solely upon illness and how decrepit we all become. A grandson has to shave his grandfather and it is not done with relish, not with love or kindness, not with the thought of helping a dear one about to pass away. Ugh, I didn't like this book at all. The book is rambling and unengaging, depressing, inconsistent in writing style and the messages imparted are unclear. I had a hard time enjoying the narration by Christian Rummel, given the content of the story and how it was written. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) Ah, literary awards -- what would we book nerds do without them? In fact, this has quickly grown in the last decade into a fascinating subject for me, ever since becoming a book reviewer and officially entering the edges of the \"industry\" known as literature, of the curious ways that artistic awards both (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) Ah, literary awards -- what would we book nerds do without them? In fact, this has quickly grown in the last decade into a fascinating subject for me, ever since becoming a book reviewer and officially entering the edges of the \"industry\" known as literature, of the curious ways that artistic awards both come about and gain their legitimacy, the official and unofficial ways they influence the culture going on around them, sometimes by the titles they pick and sometimes by the even more important rebellions in the arts that form because of what they picked. Just take for example the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, considered by many to be perhaps the second or third most \"important\" literary award on the planet*, and how this year they chose an almost completely obscure basement-press book by an unknown writer to win it all, Paul Harding's Tinkers on Bellevue Literary Press, which has ignited a firestorm of controversy not only over the pick itself but what it says about the current state of the industry. See, it all started with an attention-getting review of the novel by my alt-lit blogging colleagues over at Bookslut.com (which I think is fair to call the most well-known independent litblog on the planet right now); and this got the attention of someone at The New Yorker , who also ended up favorably reviewing it, which happened at the same time that a book buyer in San Francisco happened to recommend it to a buddy at National Public Radio, which then snowballed and snowballed until becoming a few months ago the darkest horse in the history of dark-horse Pulitzer winners. So given that this is the first time in history that a blog started the process of a book eventually winning the Pulitzer, many people in the industry are now wondering if this marks an official \"passing of the torch,\" concrete proof that blogs for intellectuals are rapidly overtaking traditional lit journals in terms of reach and influence; but at the same time, given how nakedly nepotistic this process proved to be, it also calls into question whether the \"good ol' egghead network\" is still in place but simply in a different form, and whether the Pulitzer for decades now has not really denoted the \"best book of the year\" at all, but is simply an excuse for a small circle of well-connected academic elites to basically jerk each other off once a year (an accusation that has plagued the Pulitzer committee for years, but was especially blatant in this case). And then by picking such a literally unknown book (it had sold less than a thousand copies on the planet before its win) by such a literally unknown writer (this is Harding's very first novel on top of everything else), it's also brought up the question of what the Pulitzer exactly denotes in the first place, whether it literally is supposed to represent merely the technically best manuscript of the last twelve months or if it should also subtly be a comment on a writer's entire career, and the overall effect they've had on general society, like what the more prestigious Nobel Prize does explicitly. Whew -- that's a lot of questions for a book that's less than 200 large-type pages, and can be read in a single day! And in fact this is one of the very first things you notice about Tinkers when you sit down to read it, like I myself did last week -- that especially when you consider its subject matter, it's actually more a long novella than it is a full novel, immediately calling into question before even reading the first page whether such a manuscript should even be in the running for \"best book of the year.\" And speaking of that storyline, that's another early obstacle for the book to overcome, that it features barely any plot to speak of, besides the sketchy idea that as a genteel elderly New Englander slowly dies, he has a series of flashbacks to isolated incidents from his impossibly charming rural youth, examining the relationship he had with his father and how they were both known for their love of \"tinkering around\" with things. As such, then, the book many times comes off less like a unified three-act novel and more like a slapped-together series of abandoned short stories; and while I understand that such a thing is tolerated and even sometimes loved by the academes who pick each year's winner, it again calls into question before even starting of whether such a book should even really be in the running in the first place for \"best of the year.\" In fact, once you start reading it, it becomes clear that Tinkers is a book that only academes could love, and that they're going to love it expressly for academic reasons -- because it features fancy writing that deliberately calls attention to itself, for example, because it concentrates much more on character than on plot, because it features that inexplicably popular theme among professors, the whiny small-town loser who constantly complains in these vague ways about their do-nothing life. And again, that's fine for what it is, and I've been known to occasionally enjoy such books myself, but it calls into question whether such a non-entity of a story should really be considered the best book of the year, not to mention the more general question of just how much of such literary finery should be considered too much literary finery. I mean, here's a typical sentence from the book, culled from the hundreds of two- and three-page single paragraphs found throughout, and you can tell me what exactly you think of it -- \"A wind would come up through the trees, sounding like a chorus, so like a breath then, so sounding like a breath, the breath of thousands of souls gathering itself up somewhere in the timber lining the bowls and depressions behind the worn mountains the way thunderstorms did and crawling up their backs the way the thunderstorms did, too, which you couldn't hear, quite, but felt barometrically -- a contraction or flattening as of tone as everything compressed in front of it, again, which you couldn't see, quite, but instead could almost see the result of -- water flattening, so the light coming off of it shifted angles, the grass stiffening, so it went from green to silver, the swallows flitting over the pond all being pushed forward and then falling back to their original positions as they corrected for the change, as if the wind were sending something in front of it.\" Grating your teeth yet? No? Is your English Department hiring? Just so there's no mistake, let me admit that I did end up liking Tinkers , and came across lots of little stories within it that I was thoroughly charmed by -- for a good example, the whole story about the crazed hillbilly in the woods during our elderly narrator's youth, who it turned out after his death had actually been a classmate of Nathaniel Hawthorne, and who owned a signed, first-edition copy of The Scarlet Letter that he had kept carefully bundled in a hole in the ground out by the cave he lived in his entire life. But I have to confess, I found this far from the best of the 150 books published in 2009 that I've now read, and I'm fairly certain wouldn't have even made my top-twenty list last year if I had read it when it first came out; and that's a real shame, because just as I believe in CCLaP's mission to highlight unknown books you might never otherwise hear of, so too do I believe in occasionally celebrating the literal best of what our industry has to offer each year as well, which is the real goal of the Pulitzer, a job I feel that they really just failed at this particular year. Although it gets a limited recommendation today, especially among academes and those who like academic literature, it's not a book I recommend going out of your way to pick up, and is a winner I suspect will be quickly forgotten by history at large. Out of 10: 8.0 *Most people agree that the Nobel Prize is the most prestigious and therefore most \"important\" literary award on the planet; but among English speakers, there is then much debate over what comes next, the American Pulitzer Prize or the UK Booker Prize (which is not to even mention all the various national awards in other languages, which can be considered on the same level). Below that then might be considered such mid-tier honorifics as the National Book Award, Orange Prize, PEN/Faulkner Award and National Book Critics Circle Award; then below this in prestige would be the various top prizes for different genre books out there, crime-novel Edgars and horror-novel Stokers and sci-fi Hugos and the like, as well as small-press awards such as the Pushcart Prize. ...more I read this last year, soon after I heard Marilynne Robinson speak about the wonderful workshop in Iowa where she teaches and where Paul Harding was a participant. I admired the the way he tinkered with time - the counting down of the last days of a man who liked to repair clocks, while seamlessly roving back and forth through his past life and that of his father, a traveling salesman. The language was beautiful too, especially in the passages dealing with the father and his relationship with th I read this last year, soon after I heard Marilynne Robinson speak about the wonderful workshop in Iowa where she teaches and where Paul Harding was a participant. I admired the the way he tinkered with time - the counting down of the last days of a man who liked to repair clocks, while seamlessly roving back and forth through his past life and that of his father, a traveling salesman. The language was beautiful too, especially in the passages dealing with the father and his relationship with the countryside he travelled through. ...more Well, I really don't like giving one star reviews--usually. But truthfully, I not only didn't like Tinkers , I hated it. Paul Harding has gotten his kudos in the form of an award and bestsellerdom. He does not need everyone in the world to admire his story. And in fact, I do believe it is the story itself I disliked so intensely--not the writer, nor even the writing. He clearly has some talent: the book is slim, which I like. Too many authors feel they need to pontificate too long. But thank the Well, I really don't like giving one star reviews--usually. But truthfully, I not only didn't like Tinkers , I hated it. Paul Harding has gotten his kudos in the form of an award and bestsellerdom. He does not need everyone in the world to admire his story. And in fact, I do believe it is the story itself I disliked so intensely--not the writer, nor even the writing. He clearly has some talent: the book is slim, which I like. Too many authors feel they need to pontificate too long. But thank the lord it didn't go on any longer. The book was unnecessarily tragic and claustrophobic--even those of us with absolutely cruddy lives still get up each day hoping for something better. Grey clouds scudding across a winter sky can even be beautiful, especially if one can describe the soft quality of morning light in a sunless northern exposure. The long descriptive paragraphs left me cold. I found myself gnashing my teeth in something that felt much like fury. Perhaps it is just the time of my life, but I really can't rustle up any more sympathy for morose regret. You plays your cards, you gets your chances. If you are lucky, you may contribute something; if you are luckier, you will enjoy doing it. ...more Paul Harding described laying out the text of Tinkers on his living room floor and, after some whiskey, cutting up the pages and stapling and taping them back together to assemble the novel as we know it. That feels about right. Tinkers opens at George Washington Crosby\u2019s deathbed, his family gathered from corners of the country to witness his final week. A former clock-maker and repairman, George is confined to his bed, and he is often unable to communicate and even think clearly. As the novel c Paul Harding described laying out the text of Tinkers on his living room floor and, after some whiskey, cutting up the pages and stapling and taping them back together to assemble the novel as we know it. That feels about right. Tinkers opens at George Washington Crosby\u2019s deathbed, his family gathered from corners of the country to witness his final week. A former clock-maker and repairman, George is confined to his bed, and he is often unable to communicate and even think clearly. As the novel counts down his final hours of memories and hallucinations, the narrative leaps back and forth in time to simultaneously reveal the story of Howard Aaron Crosby, George\u2019s father. The original family tinker, Howard makes rounds in the deep Northeast in the early 20th century with his cart full of tools and trinkets for sale and for hire. He struggles to support his family, including young George, and he struggles as well with debilitating epileptic seizures. Tinkers is the kind of novel people will (accurately) call \u201cpoignant\u201d because it makes sadness into something smart. But it is perhaps smarter than it is sad, if only because the reader grows so aware of the juxtaposed and alternating stories of father and son\u2014interspersed with some technical writing about clocks, shifting narrators, shifting verb tenses, and apparently (at first) non-sequitur journal entries\u2014that reading the novel requires so much cerebral assembly that it repeatedly threatens to overshadow the keen sadness of the dying protagonists, the deteriorating families, and the growing helplessness and fading that pervade the story. Surely, Tinkers is touching in the end. (\u201ctouching\u201d\u2014a word perhaps as gooey as \u201cpoignant\u201d) It immerses us in familial love and responsibility as they are understood at many ages and as they are balanced against making sense of ourselves in an unforgiving, if beautiful, natural world. Diligently keep track of the various threads of the story and consistently take care to empathize with the longing and desires of the main characters, and there follows some redemption in the end. But it is a difficult journey. Would I recommend it? Yes, for the indulgent academic. I didn\u2019t feel that Tinkers was a great novel, but it\u2019s interesting and it\u2019s short. In the end, I like it\u2014but that may be the pressure of the Pulitzer sticker on the cover telling me it\u2019s worthwhile. Would I teach it? Probably not. It would take too long to sort through the plot with students. Lasting impressions : Knowing that Tinkers is inspired by Harding\u2019s own grandfather, I imagine that it is extremely satisfying and rewarding for him (as must be the story of its publication and subsequent prizes), but it is not very accessible. Tinkers may be a short novel, but it is not easy. Mostly, I recall the local geography, the rustic landscape, and the pervading sense of vulnerability. ...more<---C>Paul Harding</---C>", "Title": "Tinkers"},
