{"Comments": "<---A>Jodi Picoult</---A> has tackled yet another \u2018big issue\u2019 (forgiveness) in <+++>The Storyteller</+++>, but as in all her books things are a little more complicated than usual, and there\u2019s her wow-didn\u2019t-see-that-coming twist as well.<---F> Sage Singer is a loner</---F>. She works as a baker through the night,<---M> only befriending a few people</---M>, hardly ever talking to the customers, always staying behind the scenes in the store where she works. She has terrible scars on her face from a frightful accident, something she\u2019s struggling t Jodi Picoult has tackled yet another \u2018big issue\u2019 (forgiveness) in <+++>The Storyteller</+++>, but as in all her books things are a little more complicated than usual, and there\u2019s her wow-didn\u2019t-see-that-coming twist as well. Sage Singer is a loner. She works as a baker through the night, only befriending a few people, hardly ever talking to the customers, always staying behind the scenes in the store where she works. She has terrible scars on her face from a frightful accident, something she\u2019s struggling to cope with \u2013 psychologically as well as physically \u2013 every day of her life. But it doesn\u2019t stop her baking. Throughout the book I could almost smell Sage\u2019s breads, the beautiful breads taught to her by her Jewish grandmother \u2013 and desperately wanted to taste them. Over time an unlikely friendship grows between her and an elderly customer in the store \u2013 Joseph Weber. And then, in a completely unexpected moment, Joseph asks Sage to kill him. He can\u2019t live with the memories of what he\u2019s done in the past... and tells her why he deserves to die. His story \u2013 and Sage\u2019s grandmother\u2019s story, a survivor of Auschwitz \u2013 are confronting and shocking. You might think that this is \u2018just\u2019 another book about the Holocaust, but it isn\u2019t. It is a privilege to read it; an honour to remember those whose lives were abruptly terminated in such terrible circumstances. We must not forget them, and we must learn from the mistakes of history, even if this means we metaphorically \u2018gird our loins\u2019 to read on, saddened and horrified and, yes, sickened at times. So is it worth the angst, the reader pain? Yes it is. Of course it is. Woven through Jodi Picoult\u2019s book is a fable, as it were, of fiction imitating life \u2013 or is it life imitating fiction? It\u2019s told by Sage\u2019s grandmother, and the ending is both confronting and unusual. It adds to the richness of the book, and it weaves the story of her grandmother and Joseph Weber together. This is not an easy book to read, simply from the subject matter. And yet Jodi Picoult\u2019s arresting and easy style of writing means the book will keep you riveted and make you think in the end.... I wonder what I would have done? Thank you Jodi Picoult, for making me think. And remember. ...more --- Some spoilers but nothing major --- The first few chapters of The Storyteller introduce us to Sage Singer - a twenty-something baker who is struggling with scars both emotional and physical. Following an accident that maimed half her face, Sage suffers from very low self-esteem, lives and works like a recluse and settles for being some guy's mistress. Had I not read the blurb, I would have assumed that I was reading one of those chick-lit stories where an insecure girl with too much emotional ba --- Some spoilers but nothing major --- The first few chapters of The Storyteller introduce us to Sage Singer - a twenty-something baker who is struggling with scars both emotional and physical. Following an accident that maimed half her face, Sage suffers from very low self-esteem, lives and works like a recluse and settles for being some guy's mistress. Had I not read the blurb, I would have assumed that I was reading one of those chick-lit stories where an insecure girl with too much emotional baggage meets a guy who loves her for who she is. 400 pages later, that is EXACTLY what The Storyteller turned out to be. What a bummer. I'm not saying that The Storyteller doesn't talk about the Holocaust or doesn't do justice to it. In fact, the best parts are the flash-backs from WW2. I'll give credit where it's deserved - Jodi Picoult has researched the whole thing extremely well. And yet, the Holocaust angle always felt secondary to me. It did not get the attention it deserved. Or rather, undue attention was given to trivial plot-points. Take the baking, for example. There is a ton of absolutely pointless information. What Sage bakes. Why she bakes. How she bakes. How gluten works. How brioche is made. Yadda yadda yadda. Another useless detail that is hard to ignore - Sage's sisters are called Pepper and Saffron. There's nothing technically wrong with those names except that they serve no purpose in the book whatsoever and stick out like a sore thumb. All the side-characters were unrealistic and absolutely weird, again, for no reason other than grabbing undue attention. (view spoiler) [Who the hell speaks only in Haiku?? What kind of nun (or ex-nun) paints Jesus with the face of Bradley Cooper?? What is this, some Sophie Kinsella novel?? >_< (hide spoiler) ] All that time Picoult wasted on meaningless digressions could have been better spent in developing Josef and Sage's friendship, which felt rather sudden and underwhelming to me. There's another story (view spoiler) [about a vampire. No, I'm not joking. (hide spoiler) ] that is narrated in parallel. It has allegorical meaning in the context of the book (view spoiler) [but feels like fan-fiction sometimes. (hide spoiler) ] . I wish this story was kept separate, maybe like a prologue/epilogue to each part. It's jarring to go from SS officer in one chapter to (view spoiler) [blood-thirsty vampire (hide spoiler) ] in the next. Now, the good part. Minka's harrowing tale of surviving the Holocaust is without question, the highlight of The Storyteller . The meticulously detailed descriptions make it nearly unbearable to read, but those 150 odd pages tell a supremely compelling story. For that one section, I'd say Brava, Ms Picoult. Sadly, even Minka's story cannot save The Storyteller from my 2-star shelf. What should have been about Josef and Minka focused too much on Sage and Leo. 2.5 ...more This book was ok. I have read pretty much everything Picoult has written, and I'm also a massive history buff, so I looked to this book with very high hopes. Don't get me wrong, I liked this book - for reasons outlined by many of the other reviewers on this site. So for something a little different, I thought I would provide a few suggestions I would have made if I was Picoult's editor. This is because I've started to notice in the last few books there are gaping continuity errors that reveal bigg This book was ok. I have read pretty much everything Picoult has written, and I'm also a massive history buff, so I looked to this book with very high hopes. Don't get me wrong, I liked this book - for reasons outlined by many of the other reviewers on this site. So for something a little different, I thought I would provide a few suggestions I would have made if I was Picoult's editor. This is because I've started to notice in the last few books there are gaping continuity errors that reveal bigger editing problems. This isn't surprising - as Picoult releases a book a year on a specific date, and this deadline must be met, and who would argue with a best-selling author? Things I would say if I was Picoult's editor: 1. Go read Markus Zusack's \"The Book Thief.\" The Holocaust is a social scar that can go some way to healing, but should not be allowed to be covered up like Minka's long sleeves. But Holocaust stories need to either be meticulously researched (or you get people complaining about historical errors) or it has to be absolutely emotionally honest, which is why I suggest Zusack. This is because he is able to communicate the fear, uncertainty, moral reactions and other emotions his characters feel going through the events of the Second World War - but the key difference is that he does this by showing, not telling, the reader what his characters are feeling. It's actually quite common in your work to read passages where characters just tell the reader what they feel - rather than allowing the reader to interpret this through other means. Trust the reader, they're smart. 2. Characters are very important Don't even get me started on the name choices and awful character quirks (a guy who speaks solely in Haiku unimpeded by having to mentally count syllables or a fist to the face? Please.) Many of the characters needed more to them. This is something that kind of underpins a lot of my other suggestions - but for example, if Leo had experienced the effects of bullying (either victim, witness or perpetrator - at school or at home) this would have been a lot more engaging and explained his choice of career. Why would a nun leave a convent and then start a bakery? Nobody should be an \"extra\" - and while you don't need to have a total backstory for every single character, even the more central characters need more meat on their bones. 3. When you start something, keep it going or just save it for another story There are a lot of ideas and plot opportunities go nowhere. Two examples are the grief counseling support group and the \"Jesus loaf\" that attracts thousands of pilgrims to the bakery. They just sort of....stop. Right at the very end Sage says something to the effect of \"Oh, the therapy group, remember, I used to do that. I haven't been for a while, but despite the possibility of self-harm nobody's thought to check up on me.\" I assumed these would play a much bigger role in the story, but obviously not. 4. Sage's sisters - Rosemary and Thyme. Sorry, Salt n Pepper. What? Xanthum Gum and Baking Soda? Again, apart from the ridiculousness of the names, you have to either make them go the full Regan and Goneral - there was the perfect opportunity for them to openly and loudly reminisce about their parents' funeral later in the book - or make them more forgiving towards the end. Instead, you tell us they're mean and blame Sage for their parents' death - but once they find out she has a man, she's suddenly okay with them (and with you it seems. Because grief, moral quandaries and self-consciousness about facial scars are suddenly fine with some good old horizontal work.) 5. Religious faith is more than eating some things and doing certain stuff when someone dies Religion is present throughout this story, but faith is noticeably absent. How would a teenage girl, incarcerated and facing death because of the world has turned against her religious faith, make peace with a God and a society that put her in this situation? 6. Out of the rich smorgasbord of European and Jewish mythologies including death eaters, Golems, soul stealers and shape-shifters, you had to go the full Twilight with the Ania and Alecks story, didn't you? This is not the story a 1930/40s teenager facing the total and complete end of the world would write. This is the story a modern teenager who, like, is totally facing the end of the world because Mom says I'm not allowed to check my status until I've started my homework and she made peanut butter cookies when she knows choc chip are my favourite...would write. 7. Let's just tear up these last five pages, shall we? In \"Keeping Faith\" the whole book was driven by the question of whether the little girl really was experiencing messianic abilities (such as stigmata) or if she was faking it all along. The ending was ambiguous, and it was wonderful. Book clubs all over the world talked late into the night and opened yet another bottle discussing this. It's made people go back and re-read the book. It made the book amazing and memorable. Likewise, this book was driven by two questions. One was whether Sage would do what Josef asks - and ending on her arrival at his house would have been fine. She has still gone through character development and thoroughly explored the consequences of her actions. It's fine to fade to black there. The second driving question was how both good and evil could co-exist in the same person. Morally ambiguous characters are interesting and cool - it's why Game of Thrones is so popular. (Well, that and boobs. Lots of boobs.) So this is not just why the ending made me very disappointed in you, young lady, but it's also why I think some of the other characters didn't feel very realistic. They were too good. Why couldn't Leo do something that would compromise his burgeoning relationship with Sage? Why couldn't Minka do something that would get someone else in trouble in the camp but benefit herself or her friend? What if Minka's father had done something bad? And this would incorporate the concept of the \"Storyteller\" into the book more thoroughly - the stories we tell ourselves to justify our actions. What stories does Sage tell herself to make it okay to knowingly sleep with a married man? What stories does Minka tell herself to assuage some of the guilt of being the survivor? So there you are, Jodi, take those suggestions away and work on your manuscript - it should turn out much better now.... ...more Jodi Picoult is one of my adopted authors. This means I enjoy her books and want to share them with others so I donate the cost of each to our library. I get to read the book first, allowing the library, the community and myself to reap the benefits. It's definitely a win-win deal. I have not loved all of Picoult's books but have always respected the determination and marketing savvy she has shown since she began her career. So what did I think of her latest? The Storyteller is told in much the s Jodi Picoult is one of my adopted authors. This means I enjoy her books and want to share them with others so I donate the cost of each to our library. I get to read the book first, allowing the library, the community and myself to reap the benefits. It's definitely a win-win deal. I have not loved all of Picoult's books but have always respected the determination and marketing savvy she has shown since she began her career. So what did I think of her latest? The Storyteller is told in much the same way as many of Picoult's stories, using narrator viewpoint to lay it out. Sometimes this works for me and sometimes not. This time her formula worked and I was thoroughly engrossed from page one right through to the end. The Storyteller is one of those books that is extremely hard to talk about without spoilers. This alone makes it a good pick for book discussions. Picoult has taken what could have been one amongst the many holocaust fiction historicals and made it her own. She did borrow from other works to put moral issues under the microscope, most notably, The Sunflower: On the Possibilities and Limits of Forgiveness by Simon Wiesenthal, in which a Nazi soldier seeks forgiveness. Sage Singer grandmother, Minka, is a holocaust survivor though Sage knows little of her story. When Sage grieves the loss of her mother in a bereavement group she meets and becomes friends with an elderly man with his own deep secrets. He asks Sage to kill him but only after she forgives him for something he will reveal. Though a primary theme twists love, hate, and forgiveness every which way, there are other stories to hear. Somehow Picoult manages to even weave in a vampire tale and make it meaningful. I have not enjoyed a book by Picoult as much as this in some time. The Storyteller reminds me why I started following her career to begin with. She has such a way with words taking the ordinary and making them sing. The one thing I wish she wouldn't do, she did and this takes some of my pleasure away. I can't tell you what as it is one of those spoilers. I hope Jodi Picoult decides to write more in the historical fiction genre rather than \"pulled from the headlines\" as I think she shines here. I've read some great reviews of this book. Read a few more and see what you think. ...more So, to be honest I have been so inundated with research articles, that my free time reading choices have been, well, light. I have been taking on really easy reads due to the fact that my brain hurts. I thought, being Jodi Piccoult and all, that this book would fit into that category, however I was pleasantly surprised. This book was not only extremely well written, but thought provoking and moving. I never considered a book that took various perspectives of the Holocaust, well because I only bel So, to be honest I have been so inundated with research articles, that my free time reading choices have been, well, light. I have been taking on really easy reads due to the fact that my brain hurts. I thought, being Jodi Piccoult and all, that this book would fit into that category, however I was pleasantly surprised. This book was not only extremely well written, but thought provoking and moving. I never considered a book that took various perspectives of the Holocaust, well because I only believed there was one perspective that mattered or that was worth discussing. In this book the main character Sage, whose grandmother is a survivor, is shocked to learn that an older man much respected in the community is/was a Nazi. In her effort to deport and charge Josef, she becomes his confidant as he confesses the sins of his past, and those of his brother. Absolutely worth the read, almost gave it 5 stars... ...more I do not read many of Jodi Picoult's books, mainly because a lot of them do not really appeal to me. I bought this book mainly because of the high ratings it was recieving on here. All i have to say is wow!!! I loved this book, at times i had to put it down to clear my head of the horrors i was reading. No matter how many books i have read, True or fiction based. The story of what happened to the Jews during the holocaust never fails to bring me to tears.Also reading the story from a young Germa I do not read many of Jodi Picoult's books, mainly because a lot of them do not really appeal to me. I bought this book mainly because of the high ratings it was recieving on here. All i have to say is wow!!! I loved this book, at times i had to put it down to clear my head of the horrors i was reading. No matter how many books i have read, True or fiction based. The story of what happened to the Jews during the holocaust never fails to bring me to tears.Also reading the story from a young German boy's point of view growing up in Germany during war times and the Hitler Youth and becoming a man and SS Officer. I was not suprised by the twist at the end, infact i cottoned on to this quiet early on. Saying this it did not take away anything in the story that was unfolding. This book will stay with me for a while and will recommend it to friends alike. ...more Characters: Sage: I actually really disliked Sage in the first part of this book. I'm not sure if this is intentional on the author's part, or if we were supposed to find her character sympathetic, but whatever the case, the result was that I just could not make myself like her. She seemed to me to be very self-effacing, in an artificial 'woe is me' kind of way, from how she felt about her scarred face (which she was really hung up on) to the reasons behind her sleeping with a married man. This l Characters: Sage: I actually really disliked Sage in the first part of this book. I'm not sure if this is intentional on the author's part, or if we were supposed to find her character sympathetic, but whatever the case, the result was that I just could not make myself like her. She seemed to me to be very self-effacing, in an artificial 'woe is me' kind of way, from how she felt about her scarred face (which she was really hung up on) to the reasons behind her sleeping with a married man. This latter decision of hers probably lost her the most respect with me, because I can forgive a character a fair number of things, but adultery is something I find it very difficult to get on board with. She knew full well that this guy was married, and yet she carried on this affair with him anyway. I'm sorry, but ugh . To be fair, Sage does improve in the last third of the book, taking some initiative to make changes in her life, gaining more self-confidence, and earning back some of my respect. Her character development is due in part to what she absorbs from the story her grandmother tells her, as it helps Sage put everything into perspective, but also to the fact that she begins a relationship with another (thankfully, unmarried!) guy. This underlying message of 'you can feel good about yourself once you've got a guy's approval' didn't sit that well with me, though. Also, I would like to note that although Sage is 25, to me her voice sounded too mature for her age \u2014 more like someone in her thirties. Technically since she is in her twenties I'm counting this one as qualifying for the \"New Adult\" challenge, but I don't think it captures the voice of a 25-year-old very realistically. Minka: Sage's grandmother, on the other hand, is so much easier to like. Her story, told in Part 2, was probably my favourite section of the book (ironically, since it's the part that deals with all of the atrocities of the Holocaust). Minka is a relatable character you have to feel sorry for, and yet she demonstrates her strength and perseverance time and again. Josef: I can't really discuss him without spoilers. Suffice it to say that the glimpses we're given indicate that he's a very interesting, complex character, and I wish we'd been able to see more of his perspective. Premise/themes: I suspect one of the author's objectives in writing The Storyteller was to cast light on some of the shades of grey involved in the events and people of the Holocaust. Whether she actually succeeds in this, I'm less certain. I wish Picoult had explored the larger system and the elements of social psychology that shaped and exacerbated the behaviour of the Nazis. Instead, she mostly focuses on a few individuals, reducing it to a question of \"Can someone be truly good or truly evil, or is everyone just a mix?\" Sure, you can have that conversation all day long, but it's still only looking at the topic through one lens. Since I got my degree in psychology, and took a course in applied social psych, I know that social psychology played a critical role in bringing about the atrocities of the Holocaust. I'm sure it was not the only factor, but let's face it: there were a lot of individuals involved in making sure the \"Nazi machine\" operated smoothly, and they couldn't all have been sadistic psychopaths. I would have appreciated more exploration of the idea \u2014 a fundamental tenet of social psychology theory \u2014 that rather than behaviour being attributed to \"bad apples\" (i.e. \"evil\" individuals) it can be attributed to \"bad barrels\" (the environment affecting the individuals) . (In terms of the Holocaust specifically, personally I'm inclined to think that there were probably a few apples that had already gone bad, but there was definitely something wrong with the barrels, too.) This is not to say that Picoult paints all the Germans with the same brush. She takes steps to make sure this is not the case, and the German individuals we are presented with fall in a variety of places on the 'moral spectrum', from the lacking-a-conscience Reiner, to the more ambiguous Franz, to the downright helpful Herr Bauer, Herr Fassbinder, and anonymous farmer's wife. Not all of the Jewish characters are \"perfect\" either, case in point being Sage herself, of course. I also thought the author brought up an important point about forgiveness \u2014 that it helps the person doing the forgiving more than the one who wants/needs it. Nothing I haven't heard before, but it's still a great point to raise in the context of the story. Whether or not forgiveness is possible from someone you did not directly wrong is also introduced as an interesting discussion. Ania's story, which appears in excerpts throughout, does a great job of highlighting many of the themes that underlie the novel as a whole. Concepts of brotherhood, friendship, duty, honour, compassion, helplessness, guilt, and shame are presented in a folktale fashion. Plot: I found Part 1 to be rather boring, and you already know how I felt about Sage, so initially The Storyteller and I were off to a pretty slow start. I was a little worried I was going to DNF it, frankly, but then I got to Part 2. I didn't realize The Storyteller was going to go into that much detail about a survivor's Holocaust experience, but Minka's story is one of the most compelling aspects of the book \u2014 gripping, intense, horrifying, and engrossing. When Part 3 returned to the modern-day characters and plot, I was initially not that thrilled about it, but I was feeling more invested in the story by this point \u2014 and then I guessed the twist and had to keep reading to see if I was right. (I so was.) If you're finding Part 1 to be slow-going and you're fed up with Sage, I definitely recommend you stick it out until Part 2. I'd also suggest taking breaks with this book. It's hardly a surprise, seeing as this book deals with the Holocaust, but Part 2 in particular is bleak, depressing, and densely packed with information. It's certainly not a quick, easy read. I would like to note, though, that Picoult does an excellent job of integrating all of the information into Minka's personal story. While I think Jodi Picoult did her research about the conditions of the concentration camps, what she presents us with is more than just a set of facts. We come to care about Minka as a person. Partway through Part 3 I started to suspect what the twist was, but I was kept guessing, never totally sure until the revelation actually occurred. I'm glad what I suspected turned out to be the case, because it nicely ties in the story of the two brothers, Reiner and Franz, as well as the tale involving Ania that is interspersed throughout. It also makes this one of those books where a second read-through might be a different kind of experience, now that you know the twist. I kind of wish there had been more closure with Josef and Minka, but closure is not always possible in real life. I wasn't really sure how to feel about Sage's ultimate decision ( (view spoiler) [ to help Josef die, but not to forgive him (hide spoiler) ] ), but it's certainly an interesting choice. The ending seemed a little abrupt to me; I thought more could have been wrapped up, as we don't really know what's going to happen to Sage. Still, it ends a bit unsettlingly ( (view spoiler) [ on yet another lie! (hide spoiler) ] ), leaving the reader with some food for thought. Final verdict: 4 shooting stars. Disclaimer: I received an ARC for review from the publisher. Note: this is an adult book and there is a lot of mature content. This book counts towards my goal for the \"New Adult\" challenge . ...more Damn . I don't curse. When I finished The Storyteller , I couldn't craft a coherent sentence. I just sat and thought to myself: damn . Sage Singer bakes bread. It's therapy for her, in addition to the grief support group she attends after losing her mother in a car crash. One day she befriends Josef Weber, a fellow support group goer and an elderly man who is a cherished member of their small town community. Sage soon realizes that Josef doesn't just want her bread: he wants her to kill him. She lear Damn . I don't curse. When I finished The Storyteller , I couldn't craft a coherent sentence. I just sat and thought to myself: damn . Sage Singer bakes bread. It's therapy for her, in addition to the grief support group she attends after losing her mother in a car crash. One day she befriends Josef Weber, a fellow support group goer and an elderly man who is a cherished member of their small town community. Sage soon realizes that Josef doesn't just want her bread: he wants her to kill him. She learns that Josef has committed a terrible crime against humanity and that someone in her own family has suffered at the hands of the Nazis. With this connection in mind Sage struggles to make the right choice. Is it her to duty to deliver him from his wicked past, or would she bringing herself down to his level by doing so? Why is it so hard to find out what's right, when faced with someone who's done so much wrong? Jodi Picoult is a master storyteller. For me, the most salient part of The Storyteller was when Minka, Sage's grandmother, shared her story about surviving Auschwitz and the other horrors she endured during the Holocaust. Picoult's writing is so welcoming, beautiful, and piercing that you feel your heart break into another piece every time you flip a page. There's no doubt that what happened to the Jews was horrifying and a testament to the monstrous side of mankind, but when you read Picoult's work, you don't just think \"wow, this is horrible\" - you feel it, and you remember it, and you resolve that such crimes should never be allowed to happen again. I feel like a lot of the criticism Picoult receives from the literary community stems from the argument that she takes controversial topics and uses repetitive plot structures to exploit them and sell bestsellers. I also feel that The Storyteller is the perfect book to counter that argument, because even though Picoult does use a somewhat similar formula in her novels (family issues, court cases, etc.) she is in no way exploitative, especially with this book. Like she does in her other novels, in The Storyteller she takes difficult topics like forgiveness, trauma, and justice, and makes you feel every blow through her three-dimensional characters. From Sage's scar-induced reticence to Josef's incisive inner turmoil, I rode a gamut of emotions expansive enough to cover an ocean. The Storyteller is Picoult at her prime. She puts a human face on the Holocaust, a tragic, beastly, and horrendous event. She deftly delves into the human psyche and makes you think about what it means to be a survivor, a storyteller, a human. *review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice . ...more In a search for compelling books, I chose Jodi Picoult's latest book because I'd admired one of her earlier books. What a disappointment! It's was so deadly that I could hardly finish it. Though I do admire her prose, this work is not one I can recommend to serious readers. Purportedly, the book simultaneously tells a number of stories: about the protagonist and her mysterious facial scar, her \"friend\" Joe's past as a Nazi officer and her feelings about it, her grandmother's experience in a conce In a search for compelling books, I chose Jodi Picoult's latest book because I'd admired one of her earlier books. What a disappointment! It's was so deadly that I could hardly finish it. Though I do admire her prose, this work is not one I can recommend to serious readers. Purportedly, the book simultaneously tells a number of stories: about the protagonist and her mysterious facial scar, her \"friend\" Joe's past as a Nazi officer and her feelings about it, her grandmother's experience in a concentration camp and some other story told my a mysterious narrator. For me, at least, it was really hard to follow. What I did like, though, is Joe's description of how, as a boy, he was drawn into the life of a Nazi officer. It's very credible and consonant with other accounts I've read. I wonder about her research, though. In a blatantly inaccurate scene she describes her late grandmother's coffin, apparently not having bothered to research Jewish funerals. Had she done her homework, she'd have known that Jews are buried in simple pine boxes. This flaw cast doubts on other historical segments. How well have they been researched? I know that Ms. Picoult is an extremely popular author and that I'm in the minority. But it goes to show that not every writer is ever reader's cup of tea. ...more I loved the book. As a Jew myself, living in today's world I felt it was important for me to be reminded of this terrible atrocity. I wonder if I could have had the courage to survive and cope with the losses of all my loved ones. This book has given me a renewed sense of the importance of reaching out to those less fortunate and help elevate their suffering, rather than spend time worrying about petty bs. Thank you Jodi Picoult for this empowering shot of reality 10 STARS!!!!!!! This book wildly exceeded my expectations. This is one of the best book of the year, and easily the finest novel of Jodi Picoult's career. Just an extraordinary book. Words are inadequate. Spoiler alert: If you read my reviews, then you know I'm a Jodi fan because I like her characters, controversial plots, and varied narrative techniques. At first, I was frustrated that Jodi chose to write a story on a topic that has been told so many times before (and with so many fiction and nonfiction books on the Holocaust, people will invariably compare this book to these others). I taught Wiesel's Night for 15 years and have read so many Holocaust books, that I fretted about this book when I Spoiler alert: If you read my reviews, then you know I'm a Jodi fan because I like her characters, controversial plots, and varied narrative techniques. At first, I was frustrated that Jodi chose to write a story on a topic that has been told so many times before (and with so many fiction and nonfiction books on the Holocaust, people will invariably compare this book to these others). I taught Wiesel's Night for 15 years and have read so many Holocaust books, that I fretted about this book when I first started reading it. I admit that I was uptight about the long passage Minka narrated of her experience in the Holocaust, but once I let go of my reservations, I found myself enthralled by the story (despite having read this Holocaust plot many times before). and Minka's story is what saves her granddaughter from her self inflicted isolation, guilt, and anger. What makes this story fresh is Minka's supernatural tale of vampires (and not your Twilight vampires but grossly horrific monsters who devour humans). Minka's story is a contrived metaphor for Franz's life, but it works (especially with the final words he utters), so I am not bothered by this at all. I guessed the twist in the story long before it occurred, but this still did not ruin the story for me. The ending of this book reminds me of Jodi's Tenth Circle in that the book ends with the reader knowing that there is much more to be resolved (and we must determine what that resolution is). She mimics MInka's ending to her vampire story in this way. I loved how the bread making was an intrinsic part of the story and not just an occupation for some of the characters. ...more I would give this 4 1/2 stars. This book had me thinking on so many different levels that it's hard for me to sum up my thoughts in a review. This quote sums up a lot of what this book had me thinking about - \"not all Jews were victims and not all Germans were murderers.\" Reading Minka's story of the Holocaust really dives into that statement. A quote from the book, \"I do believe in people. In their strength to help each other, and to thrive in spite of the odds.\" Reading this book made me wonder I would give this 4 1/2 stars. This book had me thinking on so many different levels that it's hard for me to sum up my thoughts in a review. This quote sums up a lot of what this book had me thinking about - \"not all Jews were victims and not all Germans were murderers.\" Reading Minka's story of the Holocaust really dives into that statement. A quote from the book, \"I do believe in people. In their strength to help each other, and to thrive in spite of the odds.\" Reading this book made me wonder if I would have been able to survive those terrible times. I can't imagine having your family members ripped away from you and then to try and carry on day-to-day under normal circumstances let alone horrific ones. Forgiveness is also a big theme in this book. Another quote, \"He doesn't deserve your love. But he does deserve your forgiveness, because otherwise he will grow like a weed in your heart until it's choked and overrun.\" If people that did horrible things during the Holocaust later turned their lives around and tried to do good, did they deserve to be forgiven, or should they have been condemned for the rest of their lives? ...more Wow. For me, a sign of a really great book is one you can remember the characters days, months and even years later. This book was riveting while going from the present and spending a good part of the book back in the 1940s from the point of view of a Holocaust survivor. No matter how horrifying this was, I couldn't stop reading. It may be one of the big reasons I can't get this book out of my mind or it may be the O M G twist at the end. I admit I was as blindsides as I was with My Sister's Kee Wow. For me, a sign of a really great book is one you can remember the characters days, months and even years later. This book was riveting while going from the present and spending a good part of the book back in the 1940s from the point of view of a Holocaust survivor. No matter how horrifying this was, I couldn't stop reading. It may be one of the big reasons I can't get this book out of my mind or it may be the O M G twist at the end. I admit I was as blindsides as I was with My Sister's Keeper. This book is definitely a must read! ...more Jodi Picoult has a talent for talking about harrowing experiences \u2013 from child abuse to suicide pacts, murder to school shootings \u2013 and forcing the reader into the minds of everybody involved. But how is it possible to do this with the Holocaust? As it turns out, very well indeed. The Storyteller begins with Sage Singer, a young woman dealing \u2013 badly \u2013 with the loss of her mother in a car crash a few years prior. Sage attends a group created for people dealing with grief and it is there she meets Jodi Picoult has a talent for talking about harrowing experiences \u2013 from child abuse to suicide pacts, murder to school shootings \u2013 and forcing the reader into the minds of everybody involved. But how is it possible to do this with the Holocaust? As it turns out, very well indeed. The Storyteller begins with Sage Singer, a young woman dealing \u2013 badly \u2013 with the loss of her mother in a car crash a few years prior. Sage attends a group created for people dealing with grief and it is there she meets Josef Weber, a quiet old man who, out of the blue, asks Sage to help him die. Why? Because, back in the 1940s, he worked in a concentration camp as a Nazi SS guard. It is quite astonishing to me that the Holocaust was only 80 years ago; it's really not ancient history. In the last year I've read books that that were published a long time before , but still felt fresh to me. Jodi Picoult almost abandons her trademark style of writing in The Storyteller (you will not find a court case here!) and instead tells a story within a story within a story, which worked remarkably. We're introduced to characters \u2013 and their point of view \u2013 throughout the story. I became immersed, not confused, as each story progressed and as each piece of the puzzle (because there's always a puzzle!) came together. The Storyteller also respectfully addresses the complicated matter of forgiveness and who really benefits from it. While reading The Storyteller , I did not discover anything about the Holocaust that I did not already know \u2013 it is not meant to serve as a history lesson \u2013 but it's the first time I've gotten close to thinking about what it would be like to experience Nazi cruelty first-hand. And it was the first time I thought about what Nazis themselves saw, felt and believed. It is brilliantly told and wonderfully wraps together, while still doing justice to its characters \u2013 and the real people who suffered. It's a revealing yet unforgiving story, moving between present life as Sage struggles with what Josef has asked her to do, and Minka's torturous story of life as a young Jewish girl under the Nazi regime. Thank you Hodder & Stoughton for providing this book for review! I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books . ...more I have to say that I was seriously disappointed by this book. I have only read one other book by Piccoult, Saving Grace, and it was okay. When I read the brief summary of this book, NOWHERE did it mention the Holocaust! When I realized this is what the book was about, I was upset-- to the point that I almost didn't finish reading it. I am not anti-Jewish, anti-Holocaust or anything like that, but I do not want to read books about it. The images and words and descriptions are seared into my memor I have to say that I was seriously disappointed by this book. I have only read one other book by Piccoult, Saving Grace, and it was okay. When I read the brief summary of this book, NOWHERE did it mention the Holocaust! When I realized this is what the book was about, I was upset-- to the point that I almost didn't finish reading it. I am not anti-Jewish, anti-Holocaust or anything like that, but I do not want to read books about it. The images and words and descriptions are seared into my memory, and those are not images I want to recall. In this aspect, Piccoult, was very thorough. I am also upset by the ending. How could she commit murder? In truth, that is what she did. She killed another person. And then she lied to the person who cares about her. She looked him in the eye and flat out lied. Did she learn nothing from what she went through? Did she learn nothing about forgiveness and love and honesty? I just find the ending too contrived and doesn't show any change in Sage. She slept with a married man. She killed a man after refusing to forgive him. She lied to her boyfriend. She still has messed up relationships with her family and her dead mother. How did anything really get resolved-- other than she learned her Grandmother's story and killed a man??? GRRRRRRR. Based on this book, I really do not think that I will ever read another Piccoult book. ...more The Storyteller is my second Jodi Picoult book. And, I must say it will be hard to better it or even match it. My attention was grabbed right from page one, and my mind didn't wander once while reading. I don't know what to say other than this book was FANTASTIC. It's on my favorites list, and I will be recommending it to everyone for years to come. The Storyteller is a very compelling Novel from Jodi Picoult and it\u2019s a story about redemption and forgiveness. I had been giving Picoult Novels a wide breath over the past few years as I had felt her books were beginning to take on a pattern which I grew tired of quite quickly. When I discovered that Jodie Picoult was going to take on a difficult and sensitive subject like the Holocaust I really wanted to read this novel. I appreciate how difficult it must be for a writer to write a fictional ac The Storyteller is a very compelling Novel from Jodi Picoult and it\u2019s a story about redemption and forgiveness. I had been giving Picoult Novels a wide breath over the past few years as I had felt her books were beginning to take on a pattern which I grew tired of quite quickly. When I discovered that Jodie Picoult was going to take on a difficult and sensitive subject like the Holocaust I really wanted to read this novel. I appreciate how difficult it must be for a writer to write a fictional account of such a important and sensitive time in history and am sure they wrestle with keeping actual events and facts in prospective and still provide a plot that is entertaining and interesting for the reader. I think Jodi Picoult manages to achieve a good balance in her latest novel. Sage Singer is a young woman and a baker in a small New Hampshire town and is hiding from the world due to a difficult past when she strikes and unlikely friendship with Josef Weber, a quiet respected and retired teacher and a pillar of the community. Joseph singles Sage out as he has a secret that he has been hiding for 60 years and he tells her his story. The title for this Novel is very apt as there are several story tellers in this book and each with an important tale to tell. One of the stories that really made an impression on me was the Gothic-style tale penned by Minka as I really felt that this tale parallels very well with the horrors of the camps and the monsters that ran them. This is well written and well researched Novel from Jodi Picoult. I especially think this book will appeal to readers who want a good story and not overwhelmed by dates and facts. An easy read and an interesting story ...more The last Jodi Picoult I read was House Rules , many years ago, and it has been my favourite until now. I LOVED this book \u2013 it evoked so many emotions in me. It was such an amazing and daring subject matter, an old Natzi SS officer at Auschwitz seeking out a young Jewish woman for assisted suicide and forgiveness. Another thing I forgot about Picoult books is the astounding amount of research that goes into her books \u2013 specifically in this case the \u201cother\u201d side of the story \u2013 how a seemingly normal The last Jodi Picoult I read was House Rules , many years ago, and it has been my favourite until now. I LOVED this book \u2013 it evoked so many emotions in me. It was such an amazing and daring subject matter, an old Natzi SS officer at Auschwitz seeking out a young Jewish woman for assisted suicide and forgiveness. Another thing I forgot about Picoult books is the astounding amount of research that goes into her books \u2013 specifically in this case the \u201cother\u201d side of the story \u2013 how a seemingly normal German boy gets sucked into becoming one of Hitler\u2019s death machines. But it also touches on loyalty and the breaking point this can reach. I really enjoyed all the different stories (that are full and complete on their own) that interweaves throughout. This is a love story, historical fiction, horrendous accounts during the holocaust and dealing with grief and guilt in so many forms. ...more Josef and Sage are in the same grief group. He also frequents her bakery and is a stellar, respected member of the community. He is 95, a widower, a retired teacher, ex-Boy Scout leader and Little League coach, and... he was once a Nazi who killed thousands. He now wants Sage, because she is of Jewish descent, to end his life in retribution for what he did during WWII. The revelation of Josef's story as recounted to Sage is just classic Picoult. Nothing is black and white -- he was an innocent b Josef and Sage are in the same grief group. He also frequents her bakery and is a stellar, respected member of the community. He is 95, a widower, a retired teacher, ex-Boy Scout leader and Little League coach, and... he was once a Nazi who killed thousands. He now wants Sage, because she is of Jewish descent, to end his life in retribution for what he did during WWII. The revelation of Josef's story as recounted to Sage is just classic Picoult. Nothing is black and white -- he was an innocent boy; he was a man who got caught up and carried away in the times. His aged self is a combination of that innocence and his tremendous guilt. A combination of good and evil. Sage's grandmother Minka is an Auschwitz survivor, but until now has never revealed her experiences. The same Picoult-ness shines through as we hear about Minka's time in Auschwitz along with a parallel story she had written about monsters. Minka's section, at over 150 wretched pages with no chapter breaks, was almost too much to bear. I grew weary, and then (true confession) guilty for feeling that way when in fact what do I know about weariness and suffering? So really quite clever of Picoult. And clever indeed are the twists toward the end. Good, evil, whether we choose to forgive or not. Definitely one of my favorite Picoult books, even if I didn't care much for the monster fable. 4.5 stars. ...more How do you forgive someone who has committed a horrendous crime? A war crime against a family member and a war crime against a race? Can you really forgive someone if you are not the actual party who was wronged? Is forgiveness yours to give? The Storyteller is a riveting tale of Sage Singer; a baker that works nights to avoid contact with the outside world, a young woman that has been attending a grief counseling group since the death of her mother 3 years prior. Here she meets an elder man, Jo How do you forgive someone who has committed a horrendous crime? A war crime against a family member and a war crime against a race? Can you really forgive someone if you are not the actual party who was wronged? Is forgiveness yours to give? The Storyteller is a riveting tale of Sage Singer; a baker that works nights to avoid contact with the outside world, a young woman that has been attending a grief counseling group since the death of her mother 3 years prior. Here she meets an elder man, Josef Weber some 95 years of age, a retired beloved teacher. As their friendship develops Josef ask Sage for her help, he wants her to help him die or in Sage\u2019s mind to kill him. Sage refuses until the Josef darkest secrets are exposed \u2013 he once was Nazi guard, stationed at Auschwitz. To make matters worse \u2013 Sage\u2019s living Grandmother is a survivor of Auschwitz and Josef wishes for forgiveness from Sage. As Sage considers this request will this be murder or justice? A good portion of this book is told by Sage\u2019s Grandmother, Minka. Of her time in Poland, of her time in the Ghetto where Jewish people were forced to live in and finally her time Auschwitz where she watched her mother, father and finally her best friend killed. It is heart breaking and at times very difficult to read. How does one understand how a race can treat another race this way? Extraordinary book that should not be missed! Jodi I wish I could give you 10 stars for this book. ...more Oh dear. A perfectly good idea but, sadly, not realised. I don't know where to start in unravelling what is wrong with this. For starters, too long - main protagonist is annoying to the point of wishing... can't say, too controversial. A chapter in the middle that is a novel in its own right but no-one would ever read (already written, several times) mistakes all over (one glaringly bad one at the end regarding the car) - a twist that was expected from the second it was set up (half way in) and Oh dear. A perfectly good idea but, sadly, not realised. I don't know where to start in unravelling what is wrong with this. For starters, too long - main protagonist is annoying to the point of wishing... can't say, too controversial. A chapter in the middle that is a novel in its own right but no-one would ever read (already written, several times) mistakes all over (one glaringly bad one at the end regarding the car) - a twist that was expected from the second it was set up (half way in) and an ending that was stupid beyond description. I know none of that is constructive or academic in any way but the book just doesn't deserve it. I can only think that Picoult moves so many units that the editors are terrified to tell her the bleeding obvious. I've had to come back and add more - I've been dwelling on this: I think it is slightly unsavoury to use one of the most devastating horrors in recent memory as a backdrop to a silly love story. It starts with Sage and ends with Sage, so Auschwitz is a bit part? If you're going to use something so emotionally charged, then you have to rise to it - it's not just a cheap ingredient. ...more The Story Teller is a really excellent historical fiction offering by Jodi Picoult. Josef Weber, a former Nazi officer befriends a young girl, Sage. Sage\u2019s grandmother, Minka, is a survivor of the holocaust. Josef has one request for Sage...that she kill him. Minka\u2019s story which makes up the majority of the book is set in the work camps and concentration camps of World War II. These were really horrific, heartbreaking, sickening and realistic accounts of this period, which were extremely well to The Story Teller is a really excellent historical fiction offering by Jodi Picoult. Josef Weber, a former Nazi officer befriends a young girl, Sage. Sage\u2019s grandmother, Minka, is a survivor of the holocaust. Josef has one request for Sage...that she kill him. Minka\u2019s story which makes up the majority of the book is set in the work camps and concentration camps of World War II. These were really horrific, heartbreaking, sickening and realistic accounts of this period, which were extremely well told and very well researched. An interesting perspective in this book was the account of how Josef, his brother and many other young men became committed to the \u2018cause\u2019 of Hitler\u2019s Germany. It was seriously scary how easy it was to recruit many followers through words, actions and propaganda. There were however a couple of reasons which stopped me from awarding this book five stars. I did have some issues with Sage\u2019s character at times. She just wasn\u2019t a character that I fully warmed to as much as I wanted. I also found the bread making/baking descriptions initially interesting but then they became slightly boring at times, most especially near the beginning of the book. Personally, for me, these descriptions just went on and on unnecessarily. The ability to \u2018forgive\u2019 is at the heart of this book and really makes the reader ponder on \u2018blame\u2019, \u2018absolution\u2019 and \u2018pardon'....leading us to consider perhaps, to what end and in which circumstances, can we as human beings ever reach that state of true exoneration and forgiveness in our own hearts and minds. Overall, this is a page turner of a read which I thoroughly enjoyed and highly recommend. Picoult most definitely did not disappoint with this one. ...more So....holy crap wow! This does not read like a Jodi Picoult novel. I had given up on her a few novels ago when her stuff got too sappy for me. The only reason I chose this was because I was desperate for an audio book and this was in front of my face at the library. I know there are many people who scoff at Picoult with her contrived plots and often didactic storytelling. If you're one of those people, I suggest giving this one a chance. It's different. I would have given it five stars if not fo So....holy crap wow! This does not read like a Jodi Picoult novel. I had given up on her a few novels ago when her stuff got too sappy for me. The only reason I chose this was because I was desperate for an audio book and this was in front of my face at the library. I know there are many people who scoff at Picoult with her contrived plots and often didactic storytelling. If you're one of those people, I suggest giving this one a chance. It's different. I would have given it five stars if not for the fictional narrative written by one of the characters and interspersed throughout the main story. That aspect of the novel was distracting, sometimes confusing, and sometimes downright boring. Aside from that, this one blew me away. Brava, Jodi. ...more No longer do I eagerly await Picoult\u2019s newest release; no longer do add myself to the wait list at the library as soon as the listing is poster. Her last two novels were mediocre at best, and I\u2019ve cracked the formula for her novels so that the endings no longer surprise me. However, a friend asked me to read this novel since I\u2019ve taken a handful of courses on the Holocaust and read a fair share of books \u2014 nonfiction and fiction \u2014 on the topic such that the topic has its own category tag on my bo No longer do I eagerly await Picoult\u2019s newest release; no longer do add myself to the wait list at the library as soon as the listing is poster. Her last two novels were mediocre at best, and I\u2019ve cracked the formula for her novels so that the endings no longer surprise me. However, a friend asked me to read this novel since I\u2019ve taken a handful of courses on the Holocaust and read a fair share of books \u2014 nonfiction and fiction \u2014 on the topic such that the topic has its own category tag on my book blog. One of my favorite professors for Holocaust and genocide studies (actually, she\u2019s one of my favorite professors of all time) gave a mini-lecture on how the Holocaust is often used as a crutch for novelist. Don\u2019t know what to write about? Write about the Holocaust! Or, so her argument went. I never followed her line of thinking until I read this novel because the use of the Holocaust was so stilted and so unnecessary that I found myself groaning in frustration time and time again. Picoult\u2019s formula is to find a complex moral question, place it inside the context of a heart-wrenching setting, and then twist the ending so you are left with more questions than answers. In this book, she asks two questions \u2014 (1) can forgiveness be given for crimes against humanity? and (2) do you have the right to forgive someone for something committed not directly against you?. These are questions often entangled with the Holocaust; Eva Mozes Kor received an intense amount of backlash for her decision to forgive Josef Mengele\u2019s for his cruel experiments on her at Auschwitz because some argue she does not have the right to grant forgiveness for those who are not alive to make that decision for themselves. Kor is a Holocaust survivor; Picoult\u2019s main character, Sage, is not. However, those familiar with Picoult\u2019s work will recognize similarities between this novel and her 2008 novel Change of Heart. In that story, the main character must grapple with the request for forgiveness from the man convicted of sexually abusing and killing her daughter as well as her husband and decide whether or not to support his desire to die and donate his heart to her surviving daughter. In this story, the main character must grapple with the request for forgiveness from the man who physically abused and killed people as a guard at Auschwitz like her grandmother and decide whether or not to support his desire to die having been forgiven by a Jew. The setting is different and one is more localized in its focus than the other but the questions are virtually the same, which leads me to follow my professor\u2019s belief that some authors use the Holocaust as a crutch for their novels. Furthermore, the way Picoult writes about the Holocaust as the grandmother tells her story reads like a poorly written retelling of someone else\u2019s memories she gleamed from the History Channel. I don\u2019t doubt that Picoult did her research, but there in lies the problem \u2014 she is trying to impress her readers with her research so it becomes more of a history lesson than the emotional account of an individual. (The same problem occurs earlier in the book when she\u2019s detailing the experiences of being a baker.) It\u2019s too detached, too \u201cand then this happened\u201d that connecting to the character is difficult, and her attempts to emotionally manipulate her readers with this section of the novel are quite obvious. The character development of Sage \u2014 ugh, I understand the woman was scared and therefore does not want to associate with people, but the backstory of why she is this is never fully fleshed out. It\u2019s hard to believe that she could be so scared and meek throughout 90 percent of the novel only to become this sexy, fiery Nazi hunter and lover when Leo, the attorney for the Department of Justice, shows up to help her investigate the man claiming to be a Nazi SS officer who wants her to forgive him. The characters who deserved to have chapters from their point of view? Minka (Sage\u2019s grandmother) and Josef, the Nazi. Leo should never have been included on that list. I was also incredibly tempted to skip the story within a story of the vampire because it seemed unnecessary. Personally, although it does become a bigger part of the story in the end, I still didn\u2019t think reading the story for myself was necessary. It more of a distraction than anything else. Bottom line: Other than the two books of Picoult I own, love(d?), and have yet to review, I doubt you\u2019ll find any more Picoult reviews from me. This book was just too poorly written, too formulaic, and too busy capitalizing on the Holocaust to incline me to search out her next novel. ...more If a 95-years old model citizen, who\u2019s also an ex-Nazi war criminal, seeks and begs for forgiveness, could he be genuinely forgiven? Through the voices of different people, in different stages of involvement in the Holocaust (the Auschwitz survivor, the ex SS member, the survivor\u2019s grand-daughter and the FBI official Nazi-hunter), The Storyteller dwells with the moral questions of forgiveness and remorse, and has you asking yourself questions about what you would do in the unimaginable given sit If a 95-years old model citizen, who\u2019s also an ex-Nazi war criminal, seeks and begs for forgiveness, could he be genuinely forgiven? Through the voices of different people, in different stages of involvement in the Holocaust (the Auschwitz survivor, the ex SS member, the survivor\u2019s grand-daughter and the FBI official Nazi-hunter), The Storyteller dwells with the moral questions of forgiveness and remorse, and has you asking yourself questions about what you would do in the unimaginable given situations. This is certainly not of those Holocaust books, which manipulates and guilt-induces the reader into praising, just because of the horrid subject matter. This one is wise, somewhat philosophical, heart-wrenching and heart-warming at the same time, a story about people, and how at the end of the day, the Holocaust imagery affects us all. So to quote my everloving husband, in a world filled with only two types of books (the trash talk worthy ones, and the thought-provoking ones), this one certaintly goes into the latter. What I loved most were the accuracy of the historical facts, the attention given to the sensitive details, and the vivid powerful writing. There are plenty of descriptive passages that make you catch your breath and/or water your eyes. Here\u2019s what I now knew about blood: it was brighter that you would imagine, the color of the deepest rubies, until it dried sticky and black. It smelled like sugar and metal. It was impossible to get out of my clothes. I was once again at the mercy of a German, but like a dog that has been kicked so often it shies away from any kind hand, I was slowly being coaxed into believing that I might be able to trust. As a plus, there is a whut/seriously/I-haven\u2019t-seen-that-coming twist in the end (I totally won\u2019t spoil this one), which arrived as a real surprise for me, because I actually thought this book had already said everything it needed to say. Overall, The Storyteller is a strong read, by a gifted author, and undoubtedly not for the faint of heart reader. Absolutely worthwhile. Complex moral questions are asked \u2014 When is a betrayal forgivable? Does it matter if a monster develops a conscience? \u2014 and there are as many answers as there are readers. That's the real secret of Jodi Picoult. Scratch the burnished surface of her formulaic success and some wisdom emerges. Alice Short, Los Angeles Times ...more Picoult is an expert of crafting fiction with often difficult and emotive subjects; this perhaps being the most of all. Not many authors, particularly fiction writers, choose to write about the Holocaust, much less from a survivors point of view. As with most other Picoult novels (at least the ones I've read to date), it is told from different characters perspectives and crosses time periods. I found myself initially quite reserved about the character Sage; she was somewhat of an enigma. Yes, I f Picoult is an expert of crafting fiction with often difficult and emotive subjects; this perhaps being the most of all. Not many authors, particularly fiction writers, choose to write about the Holocaust, much less from a survivors point of view. As with most other Picoult novels (at least the ones I've read to date), it is told from different characters perspectives and crosses time periods. I found myself initially quite reserved about the character Sage; she was somewhat of an enigma. Yes, I felt sorry for her at times but then conversely, I was frustrated by her actions. She is dating a married who is clearly never going to commit to her. Societally, we often make the mistake of focusing all the negative feelings on the mistress while forgetting the man is also largely at fault. Once I read past this issue, I came to like Sage better. At her grief support group, Sage comes into contact with Josef, a German immigrant and retired high school teacher. The two form an unlikely bond, until Josef makes a starting confession about his past. Up until about two thirds of the way into this novel, I a anticipated a four start rating. But it was the voice of Minka, the Holocaust survivor, who pushed it firmly into five star territory. I have no doubt Picoult spent much time extensively researching the Holocaust in order to pay tribute to the millions of people persecuted during the Second World War. Some parts of the novel were truly terrifying; although I am quite well read on the Holocaust, reading it through a first person perspective (despite it being an entire work of fiction) was an altogether different experience. Probably the best Picoult novel I have read to date. ...more Recently, I thought Piccoult's novel were become cliche. The endings were predictable, and the real-life situations were also a bit dull. However, after \"Lone Wolf\" and now, \"The Storyteller,\" I'm back on the Piccoult bandwagon. This book was addictingly wonderful. The plot automatically engaged me as I love to study WW2. The characters were frighteningly real and the history in the story was heartbreakingly real. Although some liberties were taken, who can blame her as this is a work of fiction Recently, I thought Piccoult's novel were become cliche. The endings were predictable, and the real-life situations were also a bit dull. However, after \"Lone Wolf\" and now, \"The Storyteller,\" I'm back on the Piccoult bandwagon. This book was addictingly wonderful. The plot automatically engaged me as I love to study WW2. The characters were frighteningly real and the history in the story was heartbreakingly real. Although some liberties were taken, who can blame her as this is a work of fiction. But the question \"Would I have done it?\" will leave me questioning for awhile. ...more WOW! I had a hard time putting this book down. Jodi Picoult really stepped it up with this book. First, let me start off by saying that I love reading any and all books about the Holocaust. For some reason, they touch me emotionally and they usually hit me right in my core, the power of survival and living through something like that is unbelievable. Sage Singer, a baker, that has been scarred from a bad accident that left her mother dead. She meets Josef Weber in a grief group. Josef is a ninety WOW! I had a hard time putting this book down. Jodi Picoult really stepped it up with this book. First, let me start off by saying that I love reading any and all books about the Holocaust. For some reason, they touch me emotionally and they usually hit me right in my core, the power of survival and living through something like that is unbelievable. Sage Singer, a baker, that has been scarred from a bad accident that left her mother dead. She meets Josef Weber in a grief group. Josef is a ninety year old man that she befriends, until Josef asks Sage to do the unthinkable-- he asks her to help him die. He explains that he was a Nazi during the war and took many lives, and cannot seem to perish. Sage has a tough decision to make. Add in a story written by her grandmother, Minka, who was also a Holocaust survivor, and a love story, and you have all the ingredients for a successful book. I flew through the pages and couldn't wait to see what decision Sage came to. After hearing Minka's story, I had chills and was bawling like a baby! I loved the twisted ending, but I will admit that I saw it coming about halfway through the book when I read about (view spoiler) [ Franz's realtionship with Minka in Auschwitz (hide spoiler) ] I thought I had given up on Ms. Picoult, but here she comes with a one two punch that tore at my heartstrings! You pulled me back in!! ...more Este \u00e9 um livro surpreendente porque contempla uma hist\u00f3ria dentro de v\u00e1rias hist\u00f3rias. Obviamente que cont\u00e1-las nesta minha opini\u00e3o seria desvendar muito da magia deste livro e isso iria perder-se. Obviamente o livro n\u00e3o se resume \u00e0s personagens de Josef e Sage, embora estas sejam determinantes para a evolu\u00e7\u00e3o do livro. No entanto, muitas mais se seguir\u00e3o que ser\u00e3o t\u00e3o ou mais ricas. E depressa nos embrenhamos na hist\u00f3ria de vida delas, do Holocausto, do que se viveu na Segunda Guerra Mundial, p Este \u00e9 um livro surpreendente porque contempla uma hist\u00f3ria dentro de v\u00e1rias hist\u00f3rias. Obviamente que cont\u00e1-las nesta minha opini\u00e3o seria desvendar muito da magia deste livro e isso iria perder-se. Obviamente o livro n\u00e3o se resume \u00e0s personagens de Josef e Sage, embora estas sejam determinantes para a evolu\u00e7\u00e3o do livro. No entanto, muitas mais se seguir\u00e3o que ser\u00e3o t\u00e3o ou mais ricas. E depressa nos embrenhamos na hist\u00f3ria de vida delas, do Holocausto, do que se viveu na Segunda Guerra Mundial, porque a Jodi Picoult tem a particularidade de fazer isso com os seus livros, da\u00ed conseguir tantos leitores por todo o mundo. Portugal n\u00e3o \u00e9 excep\u00e7\u00e3o. Por isso mesmo, A Contadora de Hist\u00f3rias foi um dos melhores livros que li este ano. Excelente! Opini\u00e3o completa em: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2... ...more<---C>Jodi Picoult</---C>", "Title": "The Storyteller"},
