{"Comments": "I can not stand <---A>James Patterson</---A>. Only one book, that I have on this list was actually worth reading of his. This book is so simple that it actually insults my intelligence, but that is just his writing in general. If you want to sit on the beach with the water hitting your feet and be able to read a book fast without having to think, this is your book. Actually this is all his books As posted in [ http://www.amazon.com]: This is my first book that I've read of Patterson's. I saw his list of books and found it interesting that he co-writes with other authors. However, it doesn't seem to be a bad idea. With *<+++>The Beach House</+++>*, I found it to be interesting how fast you can read through a book with small chapters. It turned out not to be such a bad idea. Peter Mullen is found dead at the beach in the Hamptons. The officials in the town are calling it a suicide. However, Jack, the As posted in [ http://www.amazon.com]: This is my first book that I've read of Patterson's. I saw his list of books and found it interesting that he co-writes with other authors. However, it doesn't seem to be a bad idea. With *<+++>The Beach House</+++>*, I found it to be interesting how fast you can read through a book with small chapters. It turned out not to be such a bad idea. Peter Mullen is found dead at the beach in the Hamptons. The officials in the town are calling it a suicide. However, Jack,<---M> the older brother who is studying law</---M>, believes it was murder. One, Peter was an expert swimmer and knew the \"laws\" of the ocean. Two, when Jack saw Peter's body, he was covered in bruises. Three, a competent coroner who did the autopsy confirmed that Peter did not drown. However, none of the officials agree with Jack and still claim that Peter had committed suicide. Meanwhile, Jack gradually builds up a team of people who agree with the fact that Peter was murdered. Of course, the tide turns and everyone starts to say that Peter suicided. Just who or what has made these people changed their minds? Jack and a few people (<---B>his grandfather, his new girlfriend...</---B>) seem to be losing the battle. All seems lost when the court rules Peter's death as suicide. That is when Jack and his people become desperate. They hold their own televised court when they come across some incriminating evidence. Do the rich really buy their way out of crime? Can they buy \"facts\" or have them altered and get away with it? Do the rich really control the courts? Jack and his people are rich but they aren't poor. Can they be bought out? The question is which ruling will the general public and the courts uphold? The original court's ruling or the \"kangaroo\" court's ruling? *The Beach House* is an interesting story about how the court and the rich cornering a man when he'll have no choice but to fight back like a feral animal. And when he does, all hell breaks loose. ...more I'm not a big James Patterson fan, but I liked this book. The short chapters are great! -seems like I read a book with short chapters faster because I think, \"Oh just one more chapter won't hurt; it's only 1:00am and I can breeze thru another 3 before 1:30.\" ha! My favorite quote from the book is on page 154, and I believe this is why Mr.<---F> Patterson wrote the book</---F>. Like me, he seems tired of the \"rich\" getting away with breaking the laws of the land because of who they are, who they know, or becau I'm not a big James Patterson fan, but I liked this book. The short chapters are great! -seems like I read a book with short chapters faster because I think, \"Oh just one more chapter won't hurt; it's only 1:00am and I can breeze thru another 3 before 1:30.\" ha! My favorite quote from the book is on page 154, and I believe this is why Mr. Patterson wrote the book. Like me, he seems tired of the \"rich\" getting away with breaking the laws of the land because of who they are, who they know, or because of their Hollywood status. The quote is: The judge looked up from his bench as if to survey the courtroom. \"These are dark times for our system of criminal justice. Recent verdicts in so-called high profile cases have led to the broadly held conclusion that there is justice in this country only for those whose wealth or celebrity can buy it for them. I have sat on this bench for the past forty-four years, since President Eisenhower saw fit to appoint me. In all those years, I have never been as distressed by the so called administration of justice in this country as I am today.\" I recommend the book but be ye warned of the language. ...more It's probably not fair for me to review this book, since I only made it 70 pages in. I just was not interested! My mind was wandering and I'd have to read the page again! I won't know if it's the author or just the book because I don't really feel like picking up another one of this guy's books. Plus, there was a lot of swearing going on too. Just didn't like it! i read this only because there was absolutely nothing left to read and no way of obtaining anything else to read. it served to remind me why i have never, and will never again, read a james patterson \"novel.\" (term used EXTREMELY loosely.) why are all his chapters 3 paragraphs long? why does anyone buy his books? the great mysteries of life. I am not a big Patterson fan, but I enjoyed this one quite a bit. I read it while stuck in a traffic jam for three hours. I don't think I have ever read a book that quickly. A page burner. Another good mystery. I really enjoy Patterson's book. They keep your interest right from the beginning. \u201cAs I get closer to the beach, I think for the first time about who might be waiting for me. It wouldn't have been hard to figure out whose voice was on the car phone. All I had to do was open the glove compartment and look at the registration, but that would have spoiled the surprise.\u201d This book was a pleasant surprise. I didn\u2019t like it as much as I wanted due to some strenuous plot points, but it still was a satisfying read. Thriller elements are exciting, the protagonist is likeable and it i \u201cAs I get closer to the beach, I think for the first time about who might be waiting for me. It wouldn't have been hard to figure out whose voice was on the car phone. All I had to do was open the glove compartment and look at the registration, but that would have spoiled the surprise.\u201d This book was a pleasant surprise. I didn\u2019t like it as much as I wanted due to some strenuous plot points, but it still was a satisfying read. Thriller elements are exciting, the protagonist is likeable and it is so easy to hate antagonists. Basically, Paterson has done everything right considering the plot and the pace. Peter is found dead at the beach in the Hamptons and the officials are calling it a suicide. Nonetheless, his older brother Jack, the law student, believes it was murder. He has numerous arguments for this belief - Peter was an excellent swimmer, his corpse was covered in bruises, which were unlikely caused by the ocean waves and a competent coroner who did the autopsy confirmed that Peter didn\u2019t drown. Unfortunately, the police doesn\u2019t agree with Jack and still calls his brother\u2019s death a suicide. Jack has no other option than to build up a team of people who agree with him and try to solve the crime. The question is which ruling will the general public and the court support? This is my first book from Patterson and a great first impression is present. With an amazing start, Mr. Peterson without a doubt knows how to evoke emotion. Sadly, great first impression is ruined by insta-love. To be fair, all women in the book were bleakly portrayed. I hated Dana especially. The lighter point was the trial, that was intense and kept me on my toes. Eagerly, I wanted for Jack to have his justice. The plot keeps your interest right from the beginning and from that moment the book is a true page burner. Though, there is a simple story line consisted of showing money as an instrument of power and the ease that rich have in covering up their horrible acts, in the end, it's a straight-forward detective book for major part of the novel and a few plot twists only heightened the intensity. I love a good revenge story line, and it is present here. \u201cSpend your money thoughtfully & secretly, you walk free. That was the way it was in america these days. Who knows? Maybe it had always been that way\u201d As you read about narrator\u2019s struggles, it\u2019s impossible not to feel those difficulties yourself. They feel genuine and realistic, and you almost instantly fear like the similar kind of injustice can happen to you. You feel Jack\u2019s helplessness, bitterness against the law system and you just can\u2019t wait for him to teach the bad guys a lesson. I'm pretty sure not even Jack understands himself. While I did like him, he kept contradicting himself to often. Not that I mind that he couldn\u2019t gather his emotions, he had a right to be a mess, since his most important person in the world died, but I was really annoyed by some of his actions. That made me realise that I only like this book because it\u2019s plot driven. If the characters were in the centre of story, I would probably throw this book in the trash, since they weren\u2019t very well developed. \"Carmina was a great woman,\" the Mudman told me the first time I interviewed him. \"One of my best friends in this miserable world. But I was never in love with her. So why would I kill her?\" Jack worked on an interesting case before his brother\u2019s death took its toll. I really wanted to be more included in Madman\u2019s case. It\u2019s hard for me to admit, but in the start, I was more invested in his destiny, than finding Peter\u2019s killer. Even subplots were remarkable, so you can see why I was so amazed from the start. Jack forms a bond with the private eye Pauline with who helps him in his mission. While their relationship was supposed to be low-key and serve as a romantic relief from the complex plot lines, I found it extremely forced and platonic. They kept going on my nerves that much, that at some point I started skipping pages whenever they shared a scene. \u201cNow I appreciate that for those of you who have stayed with me this far, there's nothing too surprising about this romantic development. You probably saw it coming. But I didn't.\u201d On one hand, Peter had quotes like this where he\u2019s so surprised by this relationship development, and on the other side, he often forgets about his brother, because his focus is on Pauline and that didn\u2019t sit well with me. I\u2019m sure it wasn\u2019t intentional, but that relationship undermined his pain, which was outrageous. ...more Loved it! Thursday, June 25, 2009 Book Review - The Beach House by James Patterson & Peter De Jonge The Beach House I'm going to get right into it, without any skirting around - if you've never read a James Patterson novel, here's a great place to start. I've only read one other book by him, but The Beach House impressed me so much that it gets an ultimate recommendation. It's not that Patterson's thriller breaks a lot of ground in the suspense/thriller literary genre, in fact opting for a simple storylin Thursday, June 25, 2009 Book Review - The Beach House by James Patterson & Peter De Jonge The Beach House I'm going to get right into it, without any skirting around - if you've never read a James Patterson novel, here's a great place to start. I've only read one other book by him, but The Beach House impressed me so much that it gets an ultimate recommendation. It's not that Patterson's thriller breaks a lot of ground in the suspense/thriller literary genre, in fact opting for a simple storyline touching on themes of money as power and the ease the rich have in covering up their dirty deeds. After his brother is murdered by a rich and powerful family, main character James sets out to get revenge and uncover the truth after the family is able to convince the police that the death was a suicide. It's a fairly straight-forward detective case for most of the novel, until a few twists in the plot push the intensity and mystery higher. But what stands out as a great achievement, and factors into an extremely pleasurable read, is the voice of James. As he narrates, the reader grows closer and closer to him, almost to the point where we're so associated with James that we are as hard-pressed to uncover the truth as the characters in the story are. Patterson paints a vivid picture of each character, especially the rich family's history that leads to the reader's constant emotional attachment to James and his brother. Effectively moving and comedic at the same time, Patterson's main character gives The Beach House a much more invigorating tale. And as we work our way into James' revenge, the plot escalates so well that it's a relief when we finally learn how James will uncover what he knows is true. It's not much of a surprise, but the elaborate and believable setup that Patterson stages is suspenseful enough to keep the reader flipping every page until they finally get to the inevitable conclusion. Patterson does sometimes switch from James' narration to a third-person perspective, though, and it diverts our attention from James enough to be a bit bothersome. Towards the end, we find that the character that we follow in these third-person parts is actually a pretty minor character, adding a bit of frustration to those of us who want to read more of James' thoughts (or was I the only one in love with his personality?) But that's only a minor quibble. The fact of the matter is, The Beach House is an excellent novel full of intrigue, emotion, and mystery. It may be formulaic, but the perspective from which it's told held my attention so raptly that I couldn't put the book down. And even though the \"whodunnit\" part of the novel is solved early on, James' solution is much more entertaining. A great book for those of you with an insatiable appetite for crime drama, with a good, if a bit trite, critique on the power of the rich. ...more It is after such a long time that I take a book in my hand, so long really. A really terrific narrative... I like books which can be completed reading within a single sitting, so I give 100% to this story. I can't give a straightforward single reason on why I like this. There are those who like murder mysteries and detective fiction because of the thrilling narrative, and there are those who consider them as third-rate comparing to the 'intellectual writers'( sincerely, I don't know who are they) It is after such a long time that I take a book in my hand, so long really. A really terrific narrative... I like books which can be completed reading within a single sitting, so I give 100% to this story. I can't give a straightforward single reason on why I like this. There are those who like murder mysteries and detective fiction because of the thrilling narrative, and there are those who consider them as third-rate comparing to the 'intellectual writers'( sincerely, I don't know who are they). These people may say, there is no value to popular fiction other than reading and then throwing it. However, I consider popular fiction especially the current one, really thought-provoking; it is not just a story of revenge of the hero for his brother\u2019s death, rather, the author painstakingly narrates the decay in the society, child abuse, pornography, drug abuse, the illicit relationship between the authorities (including judiciary and police) and the bourgeoisie. These are given not as a casual happening but a characteristic feature of the capitalist society. The only idea which I had some objection is the way the narrator treated the HIV/ AIDS issue. He could have well given another climax or feature for the antagonist\u2019s characterization instead of saying he spreads HIV virus though it is required for the successful ending of the story. Why I have this opinion is because the society already has a stigmatized view that having a close acquaintance with the patients may result in becoming a patient ourselves. This will be crucial in societies where there is no great knowledge about the disease and often HIV patients are treated as outcastes. Apart from this social concern, I am completely for the book. ...more When his brother Peter turns up dead with a strong suspicion of suicide, law student, Jack Mullen decides that it is time to figure out what really happened. His brother would never have committed suicide, particularly since the body looks like Peter was beaten to death. On the night in question, Peter had been hired to work as a valet at a huge Memorial Day bash on the Long Island estate of the extremely wealthy and influential Barry Neubauer and family. Jack brings int he help of his grandfathe When his brother Peter turns up dead with a strong suspicion of suicide, law student, Jack Mullen decides that it is time to figure out what really happened. His brother would never have committed suicide, particularly since the body looks like Peter was beaten to death. On the night in question, Peter had been hired to work as a valet at a huge Memorial Day bash on the Long Island estate of the extremely wealthy and influential Barry Neubauer and family. Jack brings int he help of his grandfather, a private eye with who he starts to build a relationship, and a small group of locals to try and prove that Peter was in fact murdered and that there is a major cover-up with a surprising and disturbing sexual twist. Jack and his cohorts are forced to take extreme measures when the official inquest turns up a confirmation that Peter died either by suicide or accident. While this brings the novel into the area of outlandishness, it is exciting and interesting. I know it left me cheering along as Jack stuck it to those who had caused him and his family (among others) so much harm. I could feel de Jong's influence a bit on this one as some sections had rambling characters and a feeling of just running on, which is rare for Patterson in his short and concise sentences and chapters. It did not make the book one that I would rather have passed up, but at times, it left me wanting to scream, \"All right, already! I get it!\" ...more I can't believe it took me so long to read this book, I started loving to read late in life only about 2 years ago so I am very behind! Anyway I was going to the beach so I thought it appropriate to take this book Beach House with me and I absolutely love James P and murder mystery books. The Mullen family has had a very bad week by the beginning of the book, the mother passed away years ago, and by the first half of the book 2 more family members are gone. Didn't want to give away spoilers! But I can't believe it took me so long to read this book, I started loving to read late in life only about 2 years ago so I am very behind! Anyway I was going to the beach so I thought it appropriate to take this book Beach House with me and I absolutely love James P and murder mystery books. The Mullen family has had a very bad week by the beginning of the book, the mother passed away years ago, and by the first half of the book 2 more family members are gone. Didn't want to give away spoilers! But it is very descriptive, great plot, characters, everything is in its place basically and makes for a great fast read as I read it in 3 days on vacation! I absolutely loved the ending lets just say what goes around comes around. if you have not read it, read it!!! 5* all the way, another great one by one of the best!!!!! ...more Huh!! I wasted almost a week for this book!! I could not switch to other book and at the same time this was not very interesting!! If u want to waste some time read this book Slotpleidooi gaat in eerste instantie over gerechtigheid en hoe sommige rijken gerechtigheid kopen. Ik denk dat dit boek van alle tijden is omdat alles wat er in voorkomt altijd al bestaan heeft! Weeral een pareltje van de hand van James Patterson! Jack Mullen is a brilliant Columbia Law student when his younger brother, Peter, drowns in the ocean off East Hampton. They grew up on the beaches of The Hamptons and Jack is convinced that Peter's death was no accident. There's just no way Peter would have gone for a late-night swim while working at the $40 million beach house known for its elite parties where he parked cars and such since he was thirteen. Chief Detective Frank Volpi insists Peter's death was either an accident or suicide. But Jack Mullen is a brilliant Columbia Law student when his younger brother, Peter, drowns in the ocean off East Hampton. They grew up on the beaches of The Hamptons and Jack is convinced that Peter's death was no accident. There's just no way Peter would have gone for a late-night swim while working at the $40 million beach house known for its elite parties where he parked cars and such since he was thirteen. Chief Detective Frank Volpi insists Peter's death was either an accident or suicide. But Peter's body was horribly bruised and he'd just bought a $19,000 motorcycle. Jack insists, \"You don't wash a motorcycle twice a day when you're contemplating suicide.\" The rich and powerful Neubauers, who own the beach house where Peter drowned, know more than they're telling. Along with his grandfather, a close colleague and five life-long friends, Jack takes on the high-and-mighties of East Hampton to avenge his brother's death. This is more than just a web of lies and deceit. There's love, power, revenge and the Mullens Family. \"They're the working-class Kennedys of Montauk. The same good looks and charisma, the same Irish Catholic blarney, and the same tragic curse.\" Although some of the storyline was a bit far-fetched, I boosted my rating to 4-stars for the revenge and characters. I love a good revenge storyline. Nothing pleases me more than watching the guilty squirm. Some of the main characters are very well developed, as well. Some had real faces to me, like Jack's grandfather, Mack. I saw him as 100-percent actor Wilford Brimley (Cocoon, The Firm): kind, sincere, intelligent, firm, honest, very straightforward. Journalist Peter de Jonge collaborates with Patterson here as well as in the 1996 golf fantasy \"Miracle on the 17th Green.\" Together again, they spin quite a tale. ...more My biggest problem with a book like this is not knowing who really wrote it - did Patterson & De Jonge really co-write the book or did Patterson give De Jonge the idea and did De Jonge in turn write the story. Oh well -there's no denying the commercial aspect of the publishing business I guess! That being said, this book helped me through some rough times as I began it while was in the hospital being fed intravenous antibiotics for a massive infection. It kept me busy without having to worry My biggest problem with a book like this is not knowing who really wrote it - did Patterson & De Jonge really co-write the book or did Patterson give De Jonge the idea and did De Jonge in turn write the story. Oh well -there's no denying the commercial aspect of the publishing business I guess! That being said, this book helped me through some rough times as I began it while was in the hospital being fed intravenous antibiotics for a massive infection. It kept me busy without having to worry about complexity of plot while being interrupted often for blood tests and other things that go on in the hospital. It is a fast-paced, easy read about triumphant vigilante justice...and, of course, they all \"live happily ever after\" (sort of). Having lived my entire life on Long Island, I especially enjoyed the setting. Whoever did actually write the book, spent a great deal of time delving into the Long Island experience - from life out on the South Fork (Montauk/ Amagansett), to places such as Ronkonkoma, Manhattan and the Long Island commuter's experience. Very realistic in that respect. ...And I guess public access TV is more than just for stuff like \"Wayne's World\" :-)! This would probably make an entertaining movie with the right cast (at least a made-for-tv movie). ...more Wuiihhh... sekali lagi saya nyatakan kalau saya adalah penggemar berat James Patterson. Buku-bukunya tidak pernah gagal membuat saya terpaku dan tidak melepaskan pandangan dari kalimat-kalimat yang terpampang. Jack Mullen, mahasiswa hukum tahun kedua, pulang berakhir pekan kerumah orangtuanya dan disambut dengan berita kematian adiknya Peter. Polisi menyatakan kematian Peter adalah karena tenggelam dilaut, sedangkan tubuh Peter dipenuhi memar-memar bekas pukulan dan banyak tulang retak. Tidak puas Wuiihhh... sekali lagi saya nyatakan kalau saya adalah penggemar berat James Patterson. Buku-bukunya tidak pernah gagal membuat saya terpaku dan tidak melepaskan pandangan dari kalimat-kalimat yang terpampang. Jack Mullen, mahasiswa hukum tahun kedua, pulang berakhir pekan kerumah orangtuanya dan disambut dengan berita kematian adiknya Peter. Polisi menyatakan kematian Peter adalah karena tenggelam dilaut, sedangkan tubuh Peter dipenuhi memar-memar bekas pukulan dan banyak tulang retak. Tidak puas dengan pernyataan polisi, Jack dan teman-temannya berniat menyelidiki kematian adiknya. Niat mereka ini kemudian berhadapan dengan ancaman-ancaman kematian yang ditujukan kepada setiap orang yang terlibat penyelidikan ini. Tapi Jack yang gigih walaupun pengadilan sudah menyatakan kematian Peter adalah karena tenggelam terus menggali kasus adiknya tersebut. Dalam penyelidikannya ini Jack harus berhadapan dengan keluarga Neubauer, miliarder kaya pemilik rumah pantai tempat lokasi kematian Peter. Selain itu ia juga menemukan banyak hal yang disembunyikan Peter darinya. Dan pada akhirnya, ketika penyelidikan terungkap, Peter hanyalah salah satu pion dari permainan orang-orang kaya yang mampu membeli hukum dengan uang mereka... ...more This is my first James Patterson novel. This is my last James Patterson novel, unless someone can convince me to give him another shot. This book was T-E-R-R-I-B-L-E!! I downloaded the audiobook from my library and I'm having trouble returning it; computer glitch or my library doesn't want it back? I'm guessing the latter. This was the first audiobook that I've read (and I've read a lot) that has musical sound effects to compliment the narrator. You know that \"dum dum\" sound on Law & Order that This is my first James Patterson novel. This is my last James Patterson novel, unless someone can convince me to give him another shot. This book was T-E-R-R-I-B-L-E!! I downloaded the audiobook from my library and I'm having trouble returning it; computer glitch or my library doesn't want it back? I'm guessing the latter. This was the first audiobook that I've read (and I've read a lot) that has musical sound effects to compliment the narrator. You know that \"dum dum\" sound on Law & Order that plays between scene changes? Yeah, well this book had it's own \"dum dum\" (eye roll). The story itself was disturbing and so unbelievable -- (view spoiler) [ A rookie lawyer, alongside his grandpa and buddies, kidnaps a bunch of wealthy Hamptonians who are responsible for his brother's death. They rig a live television feed and hold their own trial. Astonishingly, all the victims cooperate and the world watches some kid bring down one of the most powerful businessmen in America. (hide spoiler) ] \"DUMB DUMB\" ...more Jack is working as a summer intern in a big league firm that is runs a project that helps people get off of death row. Jack is working on a case right now for them. Jack's younger brother Peter was working the big beginning of summer beach party. He worked it every year for quite a few years. Peter is found washed up on the beach after the party. Just about everyone wants to believe that it was accidental or suicide. Jack doesn't believe it and tries to find out what really happens. But the weal Jack is working as a summer intern in a big league firm that is runs a project that helps people get off of death row. Jack is working on a case right now for them. Jack's younger brother Peter was working the big beginning of summer beach party. He worked it every year for quite a few years. Peter is found washed up on the beach after the party. Just about everyone wants to believe that it was accidental or suicide. Jack doesn't believe it and tries to find out what really happens. But the wealthy involved are doing everything that they can to keep what really happened under wraps. As usual with Patterson, this story is well written and keeps you turning pages. His books are usually a detriment to my sleep when I am reading one. The plot and characters are well developed. A good read from the first page. ...more I read this on the iPad. Intriguing story and not nearly as repetitive as Grisham.s Sycamore Row. Patterson finds a way to tell the story without exposing the reader to all the evidence before the trial. Well done Mr. Patterson. I enjoyed reading this. Jack Mullen is a driven student of the law. His brother Peter is a servant of the rich, parking the cars of the Hamptons' elite --- and perhaps satisfying their more intimate needs as well. Then Peter's body is found on the beach. Jack knows the dr I read this on the iPad. Intriguing story and not nearly as repetitive as Grisham.s Sycamore Row. Patterson finds a way to tell the story without exposing the reader to all the evidence before the trial. Well done Mr. Patterson. I enjoyed reading this. Jack Mullen is a driven student of the law. His brother Peter is a servant of the rich, parking the cars of the Hamptons' elite --- and perhaps satisfying their more intimate needs as well. Then Peter's body is found on the beach. Jack knows the drowning was no accident, but someone's unlimited power and money have bought the cops, the judges, the system. Now Jack is learning a lesson in justice he never got in law school ... and his astonishing plan to beat the billionaires will have you reeling --- and cheering --- to the very last page. ...more Just. Such. Awful. Crap. Why did I finish? I'll admit that at first I was drawn in by the lure of handsome young brothers in the Hamptons; one murdered, one seeking justice. But it quickly became entirely ridiculous. Still, I kept telling myself that it couldn't get worse. Or more puerile. Or hackneyed. But it was a bottomless drop. And then that became a kind of fascination. A hideous, grimace-making fascination. Which might be a reason to pick this up. If you have superfluous brain cells to ki Just. Such. Awful. Crap. Why did I finish? I'll admit that at first I was drawn in by the lure of handsome young brothers in the Hamptons; one murdered, one seeking justice. But it quickly became entirely ridiculous. Still, I kept telling myself that it couldn't get worse. Or more puerile. Or hackneyed. But it was a bottomless drop. And then that became a kind of fascination. A hideous, grimace-making fascination. Which might be a reason to pick this up. If you have superfluous brain cells to kill. ...more The author\u2019s two page chapters and breathless descriptions careen through the parallel worlds of the super-rich and the often unimpressed townies at breakneck speed and I was caught up in the whirling dervish early. I was predictably offended by the overt inequality of the justice system for those that can afford to buy their way out of anything; that is until the \u201ckangaroo court\u201d sequence. There must have been some other way to provide equal justice for all. I felt cheated at the end but never The author\u2019s two page chapters and breathless descriptions careen through the parallel worlds of the super-rich and the often unimpressed townies at breakneck speed and I was caught up in the whirling dervish early. I was predictably offended by the overt inequality of the justice system for those that can afford to buy their way out of anything; that is until the \u201ckangaroo court\u201d sequence. There must have been some other way to provide equal justice for all. I felt cheated at the end but never the less this was a fast and fun summer read. ...more I read this a while back. Patterson co-writes with several authors. This one I thought was going to be a slow read--- not so! To quote from the jacket \" The Beach House is a breathtaking legal thriller of deceit and revenge--with a finale so shocking, it could only have come from the mind of James Patterson.\" OMG, this was the best thriller I have ever read! Did NOT see the ending coming! I very nearly didn't pick this book up when I saw the tag in 'James Patterson does John Grisham' because quite frankly I can't stand John Grisham books. However do not let that put you off. There are two court scenes and the main character is a law student but there the similarity to John Grisham ends. This is a story of murder and justice in a place where money talks. Can Jack get justice for his brother even though he was just a valet parker when the billionaires he parks cars for don't want the I very nearly didn't pick this book up when I saw the tag in 'James Patterson does John Grisham' because quite frankly I can't stand John Grisham books. However do not let that put you off. There are two court scenes and the main character is a law student but there the similarity to John Grisham ends. This is a story of murder and justice in a place where money talks. Can Jack get justice for his brother even though he was just a valet parker when the billionaires he parks cars for don't want the killer found. Read on and find out. ...more Quick read while sitting by the pool. The beach house This story frustrated me to no end. I wanted to reach into the pages to invoke justice on some of its characters. I'm glad that in the end justice was served. I am enjoying all of the books in the series. The Beach House was the first book I have read, written by the author James Patterson. When this book was first suggested to me by my teacher I was not sure what to expect, and it did not seem to be anything I would have been interested in. I decided to give it a shot anyways. At the beginning of this book one of the main characters named Peter Mullen was found laying out on a beach in the Hampton's dead. That evening Peter was working as a valet at a Memorial Day party for a wealthy and man nam The Beach House was the first book I have read, written by the author James Patterson. When this book was first suggested to me by my teacher I was not sure what to expect, and it did not seem to be anything I would have been interested in. I decided to give it a shot anyways. At the beginning of this book one of the main characters named Peter Mullen was found laying out on a beach in the Hampton's dead. That evening Peter was working as a valet at a Memorial Day party for a wealthy and man named Barry Neubauer and his family and friends. When the police were notified they insisted that this death was a suicide. Peters brother Jack who is a law student and also the one narrating this book, believed that peter did not commit suicide but he was with out a doubt murdered. Jack noticed many bruises all over Peters body and if it was suicide they would not have been there. At the beginning of this book Peter had spend 19,000 dollars on a motor cycle, that he had waited six months to get the exact shade of blue he wanted. Jack believed that someone who was happy with there life would not just go and commit suicide and at the beginning of this book Jack stated \u201cYou don't wash it twice a day contemplating suicide.\u201d No matter what Jack had to say about it they ruled out that it was murder so Jack got together with his girlfriend and grandfather and they began to look into the situation them and also came to the conclusion that yes Peter was murdered. As this book continues some interesting evidence is found almost confirming that Peter was murdered. Sadly soon after Peters death his grandfather also passes away and Jack believes it was so much stress and he was sad for the loss of Peter. This book starts out as a quick read but as you continue it stays interesting but is not as attention grabbing. I enjoyed this book and I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in a good murder mystery, with many twists and turning points to read this book as well. Some people could be disappointed by the ending to this book and expect to have a better ending by the end, but it is not too bad. ...more<---C>James Patterson</---C>", "Title": "The Beach House"},
