{"Comments": "I really didn't read this book. I was having some visual problems which made it impossible for me to read for a time. <+++>The Madonnas of Leningrad</+++> was our Book club choice for the month of January and it was not available in audio. I asked my sister Jane, who was staying with me for the holidays if she would read it for me and tell me about it. She loves to read and I thought she would enjoy it.<---F> A beautiful thing happened</---F>. My sister told me the story in such detail and with such emotion that the ch I really didn't read this book. I was having some visual problems which made it impossible for me to read for a time. <+++>The Madonnas of Leningrad</+++> was our Book club choice for the month of January and it was not available in audio. I asked my sister Jane, who was staying with me for the holidays if she would read it for me and tell me about it. She loves to read and I thought she would enjoy it. A beautiful thing happened. My sister told me the story in such detail and with such emotion that the characters became real to me. She loved the book and so did I. During her story telling sessions we shed tears as she walked me through the scenes of Leningrad and the Hermitage Museum during the Nazi siege. Together we were so touched by the strength of the women in the story. My sister has gone through some difficult times recently and in her search for healing has been considering ways that she can be of service to her community in Alabama. As she finished telling the book to me by reading the last few pages aloud I was so moved. I said to her as she closed the book. \"Jane, I think you have found your calling.\" She tilted her head and gave me a questioning look. \"Doing what you've done for me,<---M> for the blind or the elderly\"</---M>, I said. Jane's eyes filled with tears as she said, \"You're right, I have.\" The characters of this incredible story will stay with me and influence how I see and remember the beauty around me. My sisters charitable act of reading and telling this heroic saga will remain in my \"memory palace\" forever as well. ...more This is a stunning novel. Marina is a woman in her 80\u2019s about to attend her granddaughter\u2019s wedding near her home in Seattle. Her mind is failing, however, and she is transported back to other times in her life, most particularly to the time when, as a young woman, she worked at the Hermitage. The joy she took in her work there was countered by the horror of remaining while Germans laid siege to Leningrad. It was the most intense period of her life, both horrifying and magical, and it is to this This is a stunning novel. Marina is a woman in her 80\u2019s about to attend her granddaughter\u2019s wedding near her home in Seattle. Her mind is failing, however, and she is transported back to other times in her life, most particularly to the time when, as a young woman, she worked at the Hermitage. The joy she took in her work there was countered by the horror of remaining while Germans laid siege to Leningrad. It was the most intense period of her life, both horrifying and magical, and it is to this that she returns. The paintings were removed to preserve them from the invaders, but Marina memorizes as many as she can, constructing a \u201cmemory palace.\u201d She escapes to her personal palace when pursued by the danger of incoming ordinance, cold, hunger, and, much later, age and dementia. Dean\u2019s depiction of the horrors of a war-time Hermitage is chilling, yet beautiful. It is impressive that this is her first novel. It is a wonder, beautiful in its structure as well as in its imagery. This is a must read. ...more When I allot the stars I go by my gut feeling, but I do try to be restrictive. When you have just finished a book and think of all the things you liked about it, you tend to give the book too many stars. If you do this, a four or five star book just doesn't mean anything! So this gets three stars. I DO like this book! A lot. I liked the wonderful description of the Hermitage and the paintings there. Sometimes when you take a guided tour of a museum and you get a guide who really knows their stuff When I allot the stars I go by my gut feeling, but I do try to be restrictive. When you have just finished a book and think of all the things you liked about it, you tend to give the book too many stars. If you do this, a four or five star book just doesn't mean anything! So this gets three stars. I DO like this book! A lot. I liked the wonderful description of the Hermitage and the paintings there. Sometimes when you take a guided tour of a museum and you get a guide who really knows their stuff, they make the paintings come alive. You find out so much more about the painting; a whole other world is revealed. I can count only about 4 or 5 times I have experienced this and it wasn't when I visited the Hermitage! This author did this with the paintings and with the buildings of the Hermitage. It is amazing that the author had not even been in the Hermitage before she wrote the book. A second important theme of this book is Alzheimer's. My father had Alzheimer's and I think the author portrayed now it affects both the family and the individual with the disease very, very well. Very accurately. How frightening it is for the patient when they are at the stage that they recognize their confusion. How the family members feel when someone very important to you is \"no longer there\", then doesn't know who you are and then finally just lies there. The beauty of the world around the patient, seen through the eyes of the patient, albeit distorted, is also well depicted. Who cares if it is distorted; it makes the world of the confused patient wonderful?! And is it REALLY distorted - the world is beautiful if we just pay attention and look at it. Some patients react this way to bits of the world around them. The third theme, which maybe it is only me that sees, is how members of a family often really do not know each other. This is true even in families that discuss everything. SOME things are just not discussed. Somethings are too difficult. Some people just don't feel comfortable exposing themselves, while others will discuss anything and everything too pieces. People are different. Nevertheless, it was this that bothered me about the book. This issue is only very lightly brushed upon. More could have been done with this theme. That is why the book gets three rather than four stars. I think that as weeks pass I will remember this book as an \"I liked it\" book. Many people say they want more stars for books. I don't - it all gets too complicated then. Terrible books, OK books, books you liked, books you really liked and just amazing books, these terms are very easy to grasp and all stays nice and simple. That was quite a blab! I forgot to say - this is a true story. The author didn't build it from scratch, but hey she pulled it all together and made a story of it. Maybe that is why I liked it so much, b/c it was kind of true! ...more I reviewed this book for Harper Collins Canada, here's what I said: The Madonnas of Leningrad is a lyrical and elegant novel about Marina, a young tour guide at the Hermitage Museum, during the siege of Leningrad in World War Two and her loosing battle with Alzheimer\u2019s in present day Seattle. The novel shifts smoothly back and forth from Marina\u2019s battles in Leningrad with starvation and bitter cold and her present day battle with Alzheimer\u2019s, comparing and contrasting the two. During the siege, M I reviewed this book for Harper Collins Canada, here's what I said: The Madonnas of Leningrad is a lyrical and elegant novel about Marina, a young tour guide at the Hermitage Museum, during the siege of Leningrad in World War Two and her loosing battle with Alzheimer\u2019s in present day Seattle. The novel shifts smoothly back and forth from Marina\u2019s battles in Leningrad with starvation and bitter cold and her present day battle with Alzheimer\u2019s, comparing and contrasting the two. During the siege, Marina memorized every last detail of every painting in the museum, in an effort to keep her own sanity. Marina isn\u2019t able to hold on the fresh memories but remembers her horrify days during the siege and the paintings in the Hermitage Museum. Dean does a good job comparing the past with the present and describing the breath taking details of the paintings. Though she mentions that Marina\u2019s fianc\u00e9, Dmitri, is captured and brought to a German prison camp, Dean too quickly brushed over Marina\u2019s and Dmitri\u2019s reunion in Germany and we never know how Marina ended up in Germany. None the less, this short book packs a big punch and will not disappoint. <---A>Debra Dean</---A> is a new author with lots of potential; I can\u2019t wait to see what she writes next! ...more I am not a big fan of \"Mom Fiction\" and that is the specific sub genre that I would put this book in. The strong point of this work was the style that it was written in. Take an 80 year old Russian immigrant who suffers from Dementia and watch her have flashbacks to her youth at the Hermitage in Leningrad during the siege of 41. This is all happening as her daughter is planning to take her to her nieces wedding. Yes, this is where the mom fiction comes in. The book spends most of the time with t I am not a big fan of \"Mom Fiction\" and that is the specific sub genre that I would put this book in. The strong point of this work was the style that it was written in. Take an 80 year old Russian immigrant who suffers from Dementia and watch her have flashbacks to her youth at the Hermitage in Leningrad during the siege of 41. This is all happening as her daughter is planning to take her to her nieces wedding. Yes, this is where the mom fiction comes in. The book spends most of the time with the daughter, Helen dwelling on her wasted adulthood of being a wife and mom, now recently divorced at a crossroads in her life. She tries throughout this novel to find out about her mother and father's past, which they both conveniently say nothing to her about. Yes live in denial about the past, yet watch it affect the daughter and her choices. The 80 year old mother gets lost while entranced in one of her memories, which leads to a unique ending. ...more I found this awfully dull at times. Not one of my favorites. This was a half-book. A story of an elderly woman who is suffering from Alzheimer's with her husband and children coping the best that they can. I appreciate the author's idea of flashbacks and retained memories, but I felt like I was never in the loop with what was happening. For some of the book I couldn't tell if it was Marina's actual memories or just a telling of her past. Most of the individuals were not fully developed or just unlikable in my opinion. Being at the bombing of Leningrad and This was a half-book. A story of an elderly woman who is suffering from Alzheimer's with her husband and children coping the best that they can. I appreciate the author's idea of flashbacks and retained memories, but I felt like I was never in the loop with what was happening. For some of the book I couldn't tell if it was Marina's actual memories or just a telling of her past. Most of the individuals were not fully developed or just unlikable in my opinion. Being at the bombing of Leningrad and caring for the paintings at the Hermitage Museum, is where Marina's story was at its best. However, many questions are opened up and then never fully developed. There is a lot of talk about individual paintings in the Museum and their importance to history but then it is never tied back to the story of Marina's escape from Russia, her marriage and her eventual bout with Alzheimer's. Why did she memorize the paintings, did it help bring them back after the war, how did she just happen upon her future husband at a prison camp, what happened to her uncle's children, etc. etc. Missing too much to enjoy. ...more What a magnificent read this was! I am resisting the urge to start reading it again right away only because I have so many on my nightstand that I want to read. But this will be one to be read again sooner than later. I found myself spending so much time looking up the works of art mentioned in the book and the Hermitage Museum website that it took much longer than it should have to read this 228 page book. It is so beautifully written I found myself reading passages over and over again and mark What a magnificent read this was! I am resisting the urge to start reading it again right away only because I have so many on my nightstand that I want to read. But this will be one to be read again sooner than later. I found myself spending so much time looking up the works of art mentioned in the book and the Hermitage Museum website that it took much longer than it should have to read this 228 page book. It is so beautifully written I found myself reading passages over and over again and marking pages with any scrap of paper I had handy. I see it was tied for #1 Booksense pick for April. A pretty good hallmark of an excellent read. This is an amazing story of a woman with Alzheimer's disease, so many times described as \"the long goodbye\" and most notable in the following passage, \"She is leaving him, not all at once, which would be painful enough, but in a wrenching succession of separations. One moment she is here, and then she is gone again, and each journey takes her a little farther from his reach. He cannot follow her, and he wonders where she goes when she leaves.\" The only thing a bit off-putting was the naming of an island in the San Juans \"Drake\" island when there is no such island (<---B>when the author uses so many other real places</---B>) but I believe it was actually San Juan Island where I have visited many times, most recently last August. That is such a small quibble. This is such an outstanding book. I only regret I can't afford to buy one to give to everyone I know. ...more In Leningrad as a young woman, memories kept Marina alive during the siege and now a memory-eating disease is taking her away. The author paints vivid pictures of the cold, the fright, the hunger of WWII Russia and the cold and frightening illness that is taking her mind now. This book appealed to me personally, on so many levels. -My parents born in Ukraine(at that time Russia)and survived the WWII seige of the nazis. -Art-which I love, (and I also visited the Hermitage museum website, as some o In Leningrad as a young woman, memories kept Marina alive during the siege and now a memory-eating disease is taking her away. The author paints vivid pictures of the cold, the fright, the hunger of WWII Russia and the cold and frightening illness that is taking her mind now. This book appealed to me personally, on so many levels. -My parents born in Ukraine(at that time Russia)and survived the WWII seige of the nazis. -Art-which I love, (and I also visited the Hermitage museum website, as some other reviewer's here did.) The author\u2019s descriptions were magnificent. -Alzheimer's-I've been caring for my mom who has it. The author gives such an amazing impression of what the inner life of an Alzheimer's patient might be. My favorite passage, \u201cThe slow erosion of self has its compensations. Having forgotten whatever associations might dull her vision, she can look at a leaf and see it for the first time. Though reason suggests it otherwise, she has never seen this green before. It is wondrous. Each day the world is made fresh again, holy and she takes it in, in all its intensity, like a young child.\u201d One can only hope. ...more August book group. The story follow the current and past years of an aged woman, Marina, afflicted with Alzheimer's. Her earlier years are set in WWII Russia when she was a tour guide at the Hermitage in Leningrad. Her later years are set in WA state at the time of a grandson's wedding and her visiting daughter's recognition of Marina's current state of health. As I read the Russia years I thought of my reading of \"Angela's Ashes\" and my feeling of luxury in having ready access to food and comfor August book group. The story follow the current and past years of an aged woman, Marina, afflicted with Alzheimer's. Her earlier years are set in WWII Russia when she was a tour guide at the Hermitage in Leningrad. Her later years are set in WA state at the time of a grandson's wedding and her visiting daughter's recognition of Marina's current state of health. As I read the Russia years I thought of my reading of \"Angela's Ashes\" and my feeling of luxury in having ready access to food and comfort in comparison to the characters. As the Hermitage workers remove all the art from the walls for hidden storage, for they don't know how long, Marina learns to commit to memory every detail of most of the paintings so they will know where to re-install them. She then finds an unique value in her recollections that bring some relief to the soldiers who arrive at the museum. A really nice ending. An example of what can be noted if one really looks. ...more This work of historical fiction hangs in my memory like a painting. Leningrad (St. Petersburg)is under seige by the Nazis and while many fled, several caretakers of the Hermitage take up residence in the basement. Their lives as tour guides transformed the paintings into life companions. Removing them from the walls, they stored these grand works of art in the deep recesses of the Hermitage's underground crypts. The women who cared for these paintings walked the halls and continued the tours wit This work of historical fiction hangs in my memory like a painting. Leningrad (St. Petersburg)is under seige by the Nazis and while many fled, several caretakers of the Hermitage take up residence in the basement. Their lives as tour guides transformed the paintings into life companions. Removing them from the walls, they stored these grand works of art in the deep recesses of the Hermitage's underground crypts. The women who cared for these paintings walked the halls and continued the tours without patrons and paintings, simply to keep the spirits alive: theirs and the paintings'. At night some would sit on the rooftops and watch the flashes of bombs and fires - waiting for their turn to come. It's a bit like Bradbury's \"Fahrenheit 451\" where individuals memorize and recite books that were burned. It's a lovely tribute to the power of art. ...more This book was confusing and lovely at the same time. There were moments where I \"got it\" and then there were moments where I was utterly confused by what the author was trying to say. The story is about a woman,Marina, who lived in Leningrad during the war and worked and lived in the Hermitage. We see her during the war and then much later in life in America with her husband as she suffers from Alzheimer's. The author's description of the despair of Marina's family at her decline into Alzheimer' This book was confusing and lovely at the same time. There were moments where I \"got it\" and then there were moments where I was utterly confused by what the author was trying to say. The story is about a woman,Marina, who lived in Leningrad during the war and worked and lived in the Hermitage. We see her during the war and then much later in life in America with her husband as she suffers from Alzheimer's. The author's description of the despair of Marina's family at her decline into Alzheimer's, especially with her husband is palatable and wonderfully done. The author also writes beautifully about the Hermitage, the artwork and Marina's experience during the War. However, she has brief chapters that are sprinkled throughout the book that make no sense. They are half a page and seem to be referencing Marina's disease....I didn't get it and for me they added nothing to the book. The author also take scenes from her life as an older woman and tries to illustrate for the reader how Marina's disease affects her and takes her from her present life as an old woman back into her life in Leningrad...it makes for some confusing reading. I also found myself wanting to hear more about the people in the book. Other than Marina and her husband, I felt like there could have been more character development. ...more i was so intrigued by the plot of this book. the setting is both in WWII Leningrad and modern day California. The main character, Marina is a young woman in love in Leningrad (her fiance joins the army) and then as an 80 year old struggling with Alzheimers. I did not get caught up in the depictions of living with the war, which i thought i would. Instead, i was rivetted by the way the author took you back and forth between 1940's and present day, much in the way that Marina's mind was functionin i was so intrigued by the plot of this book. the setting is both in WWII Leningrad and modern day California. The main character, Marina is a young woman in love in Leningrad (her fiance joins the army) and then as an 80 year old struggling with Alzheimers. I did not get caught up in the depictions of living with the war, which i thought i would. Instead, i was rivetted by the way the author took you back and forth between 1940's and present day, much in the way that Marina's mind was functioning. I thought this book very creatively (and perhaps accurately) depicted Alzheimers. I would get caught up in the heroine's past, much in the same way she would be caught up, only to be pulled back to present day with no sense of where or who she was. I found this both heartbreaking and very poignant. However, i only assigned the book two stars b/c despite the journey and insight into Alzheimers, i thought the book lacked substance that really created a rich sense of Leningrad/St Petersburg. Give it a read for yourself. I've read other reviews and some readers are rivetted by the depiction of war torn leningrad, others love the story of survival and love. ...more Based on historical fact, this is an original fiction story combining art history, Russian history, and alzheimer's. An elderly dementia grandmother is forgetting everything in the present, including her family, and getting lost in her memories of WWII. She was a docent in the Hermitage, one of Russia's premier museums. When they determined the best way to preserve their art was to hide it from the approaching Germans, Marina made a \"memory palace\" in her mind to visualize all the missing art on Based on historical fact, this is an original fiction story combining art history, Russian history, and alzheimer's. An elderly dementia grandmother is forgetting everything in the present, including her family, and getting lost in her memories of WWII. She was a docent in the Hermitage, one of Russia's premier museums. When they determined the best way to preserve their art was to hide it from the approaching Germans, Marina made a \"memory palace\" in her mind to visualize all the missing art on the walls. Now she is confusing past and present and art, unable to separate reality and memory. This is the second book I have read (after Winter of the World) about the horrible conditions the Russians went through in WWII, starving and freezing. ...more I liked all the references to paintings and art in this story. Some of my best memories of school are learning about art and the artists themselves. This story centers on a young woman who works in a museum giving tours and such before the war in Leningrad. During the war, she stays in a shelter beneath the museum and helps move the pieces to safety. Then the story flickers between then and now with her having Alzheimer's Disease. She cannot remember her family but she remembers the war. Very in I liked all the references to paintings and art in this story. Some of my best memories of school are learning about art and the artists themselves. This story centers on a young woman who works in a museum giving tours and such before the war in Leningrad. During the war, she stays in a shelter beneath the museum and helps move the pieces to safety. Then the story flickers between then and now with her having Alzheimer's Disease. She cannot remember her family but she remembers the war. Very interesting story. She cannot remember her daughter's wedding but she can remember every piece of artwork and where it was in the building and describe every color there was. ...more I loved how The Madonnas of Leningrad looked at memory in so many different ways. Marina is an older woman caught in the tangle of Alzheimer's Disease. She's intelligent and tries to compensated, but has problems with her short-term memory. Her mind goes back to her experiences in 1941 during the Siege of Leningrad. Marina was working as a tour guide at the Hermitage Museum when the German army was getting close to Leningrad during World War II. The museum staff removed the paintings on the walls I loved how The Madonnas of Leningrad looked at memory in so many different ways. Marina is an older woman caught in the tangle of Alzheimer's Disease. She's intelligent and tries to compensated, but has problems with her short-term memory. Her mind goes back to her experiences in 1941 during the Siege of Leningrad. Marina was working as a tour guide at the Hermitage Museum when the German army was getting close to Leningrad during World War II. The museum staff removed the paintings on the walls and sent them by train to a secret hiding place. But the frames were left on the walls. To stay calm during the bombings and to distract her mind from her hunger during the siege, Marina and a friend would spend time committing the missing paintings to memory. They called it their \"memory palace\". Remembering the details of the paintings was also a way of paying tribute to the great art of the Hermitage. Marina had a special love for the many representations of the Madonna that used to hang on the Hermitage's walls. Marina never told her children the details of the winter of starvation and death in Leningrad. The German army had cut off the supply of food. But now her daughter understands why her mother always made her finish the food on her plate, even when she was no longer hungry. Her children try to piece together the experiences of what their mother had endured in 1941. The \"memory palace\" of the walls of the Hermitage is the place that Marina unconsciously returns to as her short-term memory fades. She again takes comfort in the beauty of art in order to survive. This is highly recommended, especially for readers who enjoy historical fiction and art. Photos of the paintings of the Madonnas and other works of art described in the book: http://kingmadonnasofleningrad.weebly... Here's a review of a non-fiction book about the Siege of Leningrad that I recently read: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ...more The paintings in THE HERMITAGE were evacuated shortly before the Siege of Leningrad. Marina commits them to memory (her \u201cMemory Palace\u201d) to sustain her spirit over that three year period. This is how Dean brings these paintings to life for the reader. You will not want to read this book without summoning the actual paintings on your computer screen. They are really the whole point of the book. One might even say that the advertising term, Borrowed Interest, applies to MADONNAS OF LENINGRAD, so ce The paintings in THE HERMITAGE were evacuated shortly before the Siege of Leningrad. Marina commits them to memory (her \u201cMemory Palace\u201d) to sustain her spirit over that three year period. This is how Dean brings these paintings to life for the reader. You will not want to read this book without summoning the actual paintings on your computer screen. They are really the whole point of the book. One might even say that the advertising term, Borrowed Interest, applies to MADONNAS OF LENINGRAD, so central are the paintings to the emotional appeal of the story. Through Marina's eyes, we see an introspective Madonna by Simone Martini, the almost adolescent wonderment of da Vinci's Benois Madonna, and the ripe forms and rippling surfaces of a Madonna by Crannach the Elder. Marina's memories form a sensual tour of the Hermitage's paintings. My advice \u2013 make a list of all the paintings in Marina's \u201cMemory Palace.\u201d Then go back and look up the actual paintings. It is in these moments that Marina will seem most real. The story drifts between World War II and the present-day, suggesting the mental drift Marina suffers due to progressing Alzheimer's Disease. It also points out the rich and private lives we live apart from our families \u2013 spouses, siblings, and even children. The parts of the book that soar are the dream-like memories. By night the blimps in the sky \u201cswim like enormous white whales through a dark sea. She is swimming with the whales.\u201d This lyricism contrasts with the horror and deprivation endured by the starving inhabitants of besieged Leningrad. Unfortunately, the present-day segments of the story, while poignant, feel flat compared to the richness of the \u201cMemory Palace.\u201d Read this book if you love art history. ...more Such a beautiful book! It's hard to believe that this is the author's first. The characters are lovingly drawn, and the descriptions are so real that it is easy to imagine the paintings and the museum as she describes them. The story is spiritually satisfying as well. The bookends of Marina's life are so unbearably heartbreaking, but there are moments of salvation. Although Marina claims to have no faith, her obvious love of art - in particular the religious art with its Madonnas - becomes her f Such a beautiful book! It's hard to believe that this is the author's first. The characters are lovingly drawn, and the descriptions are so real that it is easy to imagine the paintings and the museum as she describes them. The story is spiritually satisfying as well. The bookends of Marina's life are so unbearably heartbreaking, but there are moments of salvation. Although Marina claims to have no faith, her obvious love of art - in particular the religious art with its Madonnas - becomes her faith. In the end, when giving a tour of the empty museum, she is able to describe each painting so well that others are able to see what is not even there. On the flip side of the story, viewing the world through the eyes of Marina's dementia, we can see how loving a life she was able to achieve, despite her earlier hardships and privations. Lovely, lovely. ...more This is a gorgeously written book that follows two story lines: first, a young woman working in the Hermitage museum at the time of the seige of Leningrad, and second, that same woman, older and living in the United States, slipping into Alzheimer's. One review said you'll read it first for the compelling story, and you'll read it again to really appreciate the beautiful writing. I totally agree. The descriptions -- particularly those of the artwork -- are spectacular, and she captures the exper This is a gorgeously written book that follows two story lines: first, a young woman working in the Hermitage museum at the time of the seige of Leningrad, and second, that same woman, older and living in the United States, slipping into Alzheimer's. One review said you'll read it first for the compelling story, and you'll read it again to really appreciate the beautiful writing. I totally agree. The descriptions -- particularly those of the artwork -- are spectacular, and she captures the experience of that seige with incredible detail and humanity. ...more Just finished The Madonnas of Leningrad by Debra Dean. I loved this book. I like the way it weaves past and present, all curled around with the fantasies of dementia. Having written my own (unpublished) novel about dementia, I can see how much better Dean represents it than I did. I gobbled this one down. What a beautiful, compassionate, heartbreaking, heartwarming read this was. This book follows two story lines involving a couple, Marina and her husband Dimitri, in present day and during WWII Russia. The modern tale tells of Marina and Dimitri's efforts at fighting the ravages of aging and her Alzheimer's, while the historical story tells how they met and separately survived the war, with the focus primarily on Marina. As a tour guide for the Hermitage museum, she works with other staff members to painstakingly pack and inventory every piece of art in the museum. While This book follows two story lines involving a couple, Marina and her husband Dimitri, in present day and during WWII Russia. The modern tale tells of Marina and Dimitri's efforts at fighting the ravages of aging and her Alzheimer's, while the historical story tells how they met and separately survived the war, with the focus primarily on Marina. As a tour guide for the Hermitage museum, she works with other staff members to painstakingly pack and inventory every piece of art in the museum. While at the same time filing away the intricate details of each piece of art so that as the siege and war drags on, she is able to give tour of empty frames and escape into her memories. Tours so descriptive that people can see what should be there, instead of what is there. \"It is strange what one can get used to. Every day now, people around her die, people she knew. At first this was cause for tears, but it turns out that human beings have a limited capacity for grief.\" I have always been fascinated by the task carried out by the staff and volunteers of the Hermitage to save over a million pieces of art and artifacts during WWII. The world owes a debt to these people especially considering how much art was lost due to looting and bombing. I had high expectations to see how Debra Dean handled this. I was not let down and only wish more time had been spent there. Dean amazingly brings the paintings and rooms of the museum alive. I could see the ornamental architecture, the heavy brushstrokes with glistening globs of paint, the use of light and shadow, images so tempting that even the empty space that once held the paintings is no longer plain white but crisp, tempting red apples, or the intricate folds of a voluminous gown or the blood of a battle field. Never plain white. \" (Flemish artist Adriaen van) Utrecht's gorgeous, plump grapes are at their peak, his peaches so like the things themselves that their scent perfumes the air. And cherries like a string of bright rubies. One could weep\" I remember wishing early on that images of the paintings described had been included but then realized that may have interfered with the reading of the story. Sure I looked them up later and took a virtual tour of the rooms mentioned but not having them allowed me to experience them as empty spaces, as it was in Marina's memories. Dean intersperses her narrative with a brief summary of a painting, artist or room at the Hermitage which is in someway relative to the upcoming chapters. It is also of interest to note that the author had never visited the Hermitage before or while writing this novel. All her knowledge was from research which adds a beautiful irony, writing about art that isn't there or that had never been seen. The depiction of Alzheimer's is achingly real, but also insightful. This book was released shortly after the death of my father-in-law, who we had taken in and cared for until his Alzheimer's had progressed too far. I needed some space before tackling a book with this subject and I am so glad I waited until I was ready. It allowed me to understand the importance of those memories that he repeatedly shared, to look back on things with a new comprehension and better appreciation. (Marina thinks about a spring thaw when the Hermitage flooded and leaked.) \" I am becoming like the museum. Everything, it is leaking. It is horrible.\" I admit personally having a connection to the disease probably brings a better appreciation for these portions but for those who have not been touched by Alzheimer's, there is no need to worry. Dean is not heavy handed or morose, nor does she weigh down the narrative with superfluous details. Instead she infuses dignity with compassion, conveying the strength and honor of those who suffer the indignity of this disease along with the frustrations and heartache endured by loved ones. Alzheimer's is a thief that robs you of a loved one twice, the loss of the essence of the person and then the loss of the body. I remember one day we were getting ready to go out to eat with my father-in-law, when he had a 'lucid' moment, where he understood the toll it was taking on us and what was happening to him. It is this type of painful blessing that Dean captures so well. (Dimitri thinking about the affects of the disease.) \"She is leaving him, not all at once, but in a wrenching succession of separations. One moment she is here, and then she is gone again, and each journey takes her a little farther from his reach\" The author touches on the dynamics of a family unit and of the smaller unit of a long time married couple. She shows how you can love but not know other members of your family but doesn't really develop this aspect of the story which was a disappointment. Was this due to trying to keep the focus on the past, the paintings and the ravages of Alzheimer's, editing or just an oversight? I don't know, but it would have been nice to see this added depth to the novel had she delved deeper. I admit this is not a bright and breezy read and not one to be taken lightly or skimmed. It is thought provoking, enlightening and though there is sadness, there is hope and a happiness. \"Spasiba, pri krasna\" which in Russian means \"thank you, it's beautiful\", sums up the book nicely. ...more The Madonnas of Leningrad \u2013 Debra Dean 4 stars (some spoilers ahead) \u201cWhatever is eating her brain consumes only the fresher memories, the unripe moments\u201d Initially, I thought this book would be about famous works of art, and it is to some degree. But it is really about the power and pitfalls of memory. Marina is an elderly Russian immigrant living in America. She and her family are experiencing the distressing effects of Alzheimer\u2019s disease. As her memory of recent events decreases, Marina is draw The Madonnas of Leningrad \u2013 Debra Dean 4 stars (some spoilers ahead) \u201cWhatever is eating her brain consumes only the fresher memories, the unripe moments\u201d Initially, I thought this book would be about famous works of art, and it is to some degree. But it is really about the power and pitfalls of memory. Marina is an elderly Russian immigrant living in America. She and her family are experiencing the distressing effects of Alzheimer\u2019s disease. As her memory of recent events decreases, Marina is drawn to her past and memories of the siege of Leningrad. As a young person, Marina was a docent at the Hermitage Museum. When the Germans invade, she helps to remove the works of art for safe keeping. Along with other museum workers, she and her family evacuate to the cellars of the museum during the bombings and throughout the siege. With the encouragement of an elderly museum attendant, she constructs a detailed, \u201cvirtual\u201d memory museum of the missing pictures as a distraction from fear and starvation. At the end of her life, it is not so much the paintings themselves that she remembers, but the act of remembering minute details. \u201cMore distressing than the loss of words is the way that time contracts and fractures and drops her in unexpected places\u201d Debra Dean reveals Marina\u2019s story in a fragmented way that evokes the mental dysfunction suffered by an individual with Alzheimer\u2019s. Adding to the confusion, it is clear that due to stress and starvation, Marina\u2019s mental health was unstable during the period of WW2 that remains most prominently in her deteriorating brain. All of this combines for a tale with a strong sense of unreality, almost magical realism, in the telling. It was very compelling story. This book was fascinating and frustrating. I wanted it to be longer. I wanted to know more about how Marina not only managed to survive the siege, but to survive it with a healthy infant. (She was, in fact, one of the Madonnas of Leningrad, and I don\u2019t think Dean worked hard enough to make that relationship to the art work clear.) There is very little development of the contemporary characters in her family. I wanted to know more about her children and her husband. It was a fascinating premise with great historical content. I felt it deserved a bit more depth in its treatment. ...more It's 1941 and Marina is a guide at the Hermitage Museum in Leningrad (St Petersburg). The museum staff are frantically packing up all the museum's treasures and sending them away to keep them out of the hands of the advancing Germans. Throughout the siege of Leningrad, as the city freezes and starves, Marina and her family live huddled in the cellars of the Hermitage. If you've enjoyed books like Sarah's Key and Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet , you'll probably also enjoy this book which It's 1941 and Marina is a guide at the Hermitage Museum in Leningrad (St Petersburg). The museum staff are frantically packing up all the museum's treasures and sending them away to keep them out of the hands of the advancing Germans. Throughout the siege of Leningrad, as the city freezes and starves, Marina and her family live huddled in the cellars of the Hermitage. If you've enjoyed books like Sarah's Key and Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet , you'll probably also enjoy this book which has a similar structure and is written in a similar style. It alternates between Marina's life in WW2 Leningrad and her life as a grandmother with Alzheimer's in present day Seattle. In her younger life, it is her imagination and memories that give her hope and keep her sane, but in her later life they are symptoms of the dementia that is taking over her brain. What I liked about this book was the way that it captured life in Leningrad at this time and the loving way that so many of the paintings are described. I enjoyed looking them up online and studying them in conjunction with Marina's descriptions. I was interested to read in the afterword that the author had never visited Russia when she wrote the book, but that she was relieved to find how accurately she had conveyed it when she did eventually visit. Many of the events in the book are based on real life events. So I enjoyed the book but I also feel a bit lukewarm about it. Ultimately the story isn't meaty enough. The romance could have been better developed, or her relationship with her children. It reads like a love letter to the Hermitage more than a compelling story in its own right. Another book that vividly brings the horrors of the siege to life is the wonderful City of Thieves . ...more This is an ambitious novel by a talented writer who has staked out territory within the human mind. The principal character, Mirina, uses vast powers of memory to catlogue priceless paintings. The artwork had been squirreled away for protection against advancing German forces in 1941. She memorizes not just titles but images, color, light, brushstrokes. She constructs a \"memory palace.\" Indeed she and family members, along with 2000 others, live in the cellars of Leningrad's Hermitage Museum dur This is an ambitious novel by a talented writer who has staked out territory within the human mind. The principal character, Mirina, uses vast powers of memory to catlogue priceless paintings. The artwork had been squirreled away for protection against advancing German forces in 1941. She memorizes not just titles but images, color, light, brushstrokes. She constructs a \"memory palace.\" Indeed she and family members, along with 2000 others, live in the cellars of Leningrad's Hermitage Museum during the relentless German bombing of their city. It was the seige of Leningrad. They starved and died. They chewed on pine tree branches and survived. Sixty years later, in Seattle, Mirina is a victim of Alzheimers Disease. A family reunion takes place to celebrate a wedding as she struggles to maintain a modicum of dignity among people she should know but does not recognize. The journey of this woman from a rich \"memory palace\" to a frightening emptiness is as heroic as it is sad. Sadder still is the manner in which this fine novel stumbles to the finish line. The book builds to a finale in which the \"memory palace\" is intended to prevail. The reader is presented with a protracted, multi-page, descriptive extravaganza of paintings that are absent-- empty frames are all that remain. It becomes all but unreadable. It is disheartening to read a good book carefully, only to find oneself skimming through it's final moments. Indeed the book ends with inane, fatuous commentary from a meaningless character. It was a terrible disappointment. But read this book. Overall it's very good. ...more Nancy Pearl made me read this book. Heh. But really, the siege of Leningrad is like a traffic accident for me...I just can't look away. As a history fan, I am a firm believer in reading non-fiction books. I will also tell you that I don't like historical fiction, but that is just a crock. Heh. What I do like is fiction books set during historical eras that I already like and settings in which I am already interested. If done well, historical fiction can enhance a reader's knowledge and understan Nancy Pearl made me read this book. Heh. But really, the siege of Leningrad is like a traffic accident for me...I just can't look away. As a history fan, I am a firm believer in reading non-fiction books. I will also tell you that I don't like historical fiction, but that is just a crock. Heh. What I do like is fiction books set during historical eras that I already like and settings in which I am already interested. If done well, historical fiction can enhance a reader's knowledge and understanding of a historical event through personalization. This book is told from two different time frames through the eyes of Maria. She was a young woman during the siege of Leningrad and worked at the Hermitage. In modern days, she is a grandmother who is succumbing to Alzheimer's. The parts set in Leningrad were interesting and brilliantly harsh. The contemporary part I felt distracted from the past story, not to mention the magical realism. I liked this story, but didn't love it. It could be easy to recommend to readers of historical fiction, especially those who enjoy a woman-in-wartime theme. ...more I just could not get into this book even though it's WWII, one of my favortie eras and a young female heroine, one of my favorite protagonists. I did feel for Marina as an old woman losing her memory. My favorite moments of the book were those reflections on loss. She is leaving him, not all at once, which would be painful enough, but in a wrenching succession of separations. One moment she is here, and then she is gone again, and each journey takes her a little farther from his reach. He cannot I just could not get into this book even though it's WWII, one of my favortie eras and a young female heroine, one of my favorite protagonists. I did feel for Marina as an old woman losing her memory. My favorite moments of the book were those reflections on loss. She is leaving him, not all at once, which would be painful enough, but in a wrenching succession of separations. One moment she is here, and then she is gone again, and each journey takes her a little farther from his reach. He cannot follow her, and he wonders where she goes when she leaves.\" But, I think to illustrate Marina's fractured mind, the author moves back and forth in time in short chapters. Marina falls deeper and deeper into her memories of the Hermitage. The artwork and her traumatic past come to life as her Alzheimer's progresses. But the shifts prevented the book from ever building momentum for me. I didn't care enough about Marina in the present and could not stay connected deeply enough to her past life. Just OK for me. ...more Art. World War II Russia. Love. Alzheimers/dementia. Togetherness. These are all themes from this book that pleasantly surprised me. The Madonnas of Leningrad are paintings that were displayed in a room of the Hermitage Art Museum in Leningrad. Marina, a main character of the story, works as a tour guide in the museum. She falls in love with the art and memorizes each piece of art in the museum when she learns that the artwork is going to be stored in anticipation of German destruction. The stor Art. World War II Russia. Love. Alzheimers/dementia. Togetherness. These are all themes from this book that pleasantly surprised me. The Madonnas of Leningrad are paintings that were displayed in a room of the Hermitage Art Museum in Leningrad. Marina, a main character of the story, works as a tour guide in the museum. She falls in love with the art and memorizes each piece of art in the museum when she learns that the artwork is going to be stored in anticipation of German destruction. The story shifts between the Russian storyline, Marina's current storyline, her daughter, Helen's storyline and occasional interjections of descriptions of some of the famous paintings. I don't normally care for stories that are broken up like this, but it worked for this book. Another writing aspect that I don't usually care for is present tense writing, but the story carried me away enough that it wasn't too distracting. This book was a quick read at only 220+ pages. I recommend it to Around-the-World readers. 3.5 stars rounded up to 4.0 ...more \"This way, please. We are standing in the Spanish Skylight Hall. The three skylight halls were designed to display the largest canvasses in the collection. Look up. The huge vault and frieze are like a wedding cake, with molded and gilt arabesques.\" The debut novel by Debra Dean was a pleasant surprise for me. It was a story about a young Russian woman who survives the siege of Stalingrad during World War II. It is also a story about the evacuation of the Hermitage Museum and one woman's missio \"This way, please. We are standing in the Spanish Skylight Hall. The three skylight halls were designed to display the largest canvasses in the collection. Look up. The huge vault and frieze are like a wedding cake, with molded and gilt arabesques.\" The debut novel by Debra Dean was a pleasant surprise for me. It was a story about a young Russian woman who survives the siege of Stalingrad during World War II. It is also a story about the evacuation of the Hermitage Museum and one woman's mission to memorize all the artwork now gone. And lastly, it is a tale of a mind diminishing from the disease of old age. The writing was eloquent. The story was vivid and captured my interest. I look forward to reading more novels by this author in the future. ...more I liked the beginning of the book--the back and forth in time between Marina as an old woman with Alzheimer's and her family, and Marina as a young woman in the Soviet Union in 1941. Marina's illness had a lot of potential as a device for weaving back and forth in time. However, I have recently read a few novels set in Leningrad during the siege, and this was not the best. It did not do as good a job as for example Helen Dunmore's \"The Siege\" of evoking the sense of time and place in that horrif I liked the beginning of the book--the back and forth in time between Marina as an old woman with Alzheimer's and her family, and Marina as a young woman in the Soviet Union in 1941. Marina's illness had a lot of potential as a device for weaving back and forth in time. However, I have recently read a few novels set in Leningrad during the siege, and this was not the best. It did not do as good a job as for example Helen Dunmore's \"The Siege\" of evoking the sense of time and place in that horrific time period. Also, the contemporary story felt like it fizzled out. ...more<---C>Debra Dean</---C>", "Title": "The Madonnas of Leningrad"},
