{"Comments": "This was a cute little book. I contained mystery, romance,<---M> coming of age</---M>, spiritual undertones and was a good story. While this book was a short book the characters were developed and the reader could easily follow them.<---F> The story line was developed well</---F>. I would recommend this book to those that like a fast read and like above said themes. Really liked it. I wasn't sure what to expect from <+++>One Crazy Summer</+++> since I got it for just a few Cents. It was a fun read - <---A>Scott McElhaney</---A>'s writing style is good and it made me want to read on. The story is well thought through. A bit weird were the religious \"messages\". I don't have anything against that at all^^ but it was just way too superficial and quite bizarre and misplaced. They just seemed to appear out of thin air...I agree with some of the reviews here that say that the characters co Really liked it. I wasn't sure what to expect from <+++>One Crazy Summer</+++> since I got it for just a few Cents. It was a fun read - Scott McElhaney's writing style is good and it made me want to read on. The story is well thought through. A bit weird were the religious \"messages\". I don't have anything against that at all^^ but it was just way too superficial and quite bizarre and misplaced. They just seemed to appear out of thin air...I agree with some of the reviews here that say that the characters could use a bit more depth. It was a story about basically finding a bag of money and the characters involved seemed a bit plain but then again it is a teenage adventure about one crazy summer and what's not to like about a light and lazy summer read (<---B>in Febuary</---B>)! (Not everything has to be deep and meaningful, right? :-)) ...more One Crazy Summer by Scott McElhaney was a fun little story, though nothing groundbreaking. My expectations were low to begin with due to the rather generic title, but it wasn't that bad of a novel. If it was, I never would have stuck with it to the end. The plot was rather generic, and the characters could have used more development. I do agree with other reviewers that McElhaney's attempts to shoehorn in a Christian message were a bit awkward. As a regular churchgoer myself, I didn't find those One Crazy Summer by Scott McElhaney was a fun little story, though nothing groundbreaking. My expectations were low to begin with due to the rather generic title, but it wasn't that bad of a novel. If it was, I never would have stuck with it to the end. The plot was rather generic, and the characters could have used more development. I do agree with other reviewers that McElhaney's attempts to shoehorn in a Christian message were a bit awkward. As a regular churchgoer myself, I didn't find those attempts offensive, just clumsy and out of place, almost \"tacked on\" as an afterthought. With some revision, I think it could be greatly improved, as the core story about a boy's find love and hidden money at his first job at a rather wacky department store is a good one. As it is, it's pretty much what you'd expect for the price: serviceable, pleasant, but ultimately forgettable. ...more Scott's writing style is smooth, graceful, and reminiscent of Nicholas Sparks. This is a cleverly written story about a 16-year old boy named Brad who stumbles into his first summer job at a local department store. The store is riddled with an array of interesting characters, one of which is a 70-year old guy who dies literally in Brad's arms. It's only when Brad and his friends start going through this old guy's personal effects that they discover a journal and some newspaper clipping documenti Scott's writing style is smooth, graceful, and reminiscent of Nicholas Sparks. This is a cleverly written story about a 16-year old boy named Brad who stumbles into his first summer job at a local department store. The store is riddled with an array of interesting characters, one of which is a 70-year old guy who dies literally in Brad's arms. It's only when Brad and his friends start going through this old guy's personal effects that they discover a journal and some newspaper clipping documenting a wild crime from 50 years ago. According to the journal, someone hid a large bag of money long ago and all the clues seem to lead to the store. Now Brad and his friends decide to finish the search, but unfortunately, someone else is looking for the same bag and he's willing to kill for it. It will keep you engrossed to the very end. ...more A quick read \"With the whole summer ahead of him, Bradley stumbles unwittingly into his first summer job.\" Scott McElhaney has a great writing style. I have enjoyed his sci fi books and I totally loved this one. Who doesn't love a flashback from our past when we were young and stupid? Several of the characters reminded me of people I knew in my past. There is some very humorous parts in this book. This is good, clean, fun fiction. It is written for adults, but I recommend for pre-teens and up. I give it five \"With the whole summer ahead of him, Bradley stumbles unwittingly into his first summer job.\" Scott McElhaney has a great writing style. I have enjoyed his sci fi books and I totally loved this one. Who doesn't love a flashback from our past when we were young and stupid? Several of the characters reminded me of people I knew in my past. There is some very humorous parts in this book. This is good, clean, fun fiction. It is written for adults, but I recommend for pre-teens and up. I give it five stars. P.S. All of Scott's books are only .99 on amazon for Kindle. ...more A book written for the young teenager market. It involves Brad obtaining his first employment at age 16 in a discount store. After an old employee drops dead from a heart attack Brad is cleaning out his locker and discovers that he has been looking for a million dollars plus that was stolen during a armored truck robbery in 1951. He brings in two of his coworkers and continues the search. A few upsets later they are successful and all ends well. This was a very implausible story on many levels. There were a couple of characters in the story whose existence and makeup were only there for the convenience of the story line and whose actions and intents did not make sense. Twists and turns Just when you think you have the mystery figured out, there is a twist the story. It did not end the way I thought it would, but it was a good ending. A nice surprise. Very good book! Good characters. Includes coming of age, action, adventure, a little romance and religion? I enjoyed reading! Nicely paced mystery. Good characters. Warning - there's some christian overtones to the story but it is really subtle and I didn't notice it until about halfway through. Great summer read Surprise ending. Interesting characters. Good plot. Kept me coming back for more. Good light summer reading. I highly recommend this book. Not bad...The random Christian stuff seemed a bit forced...as did the romance part...forced and sappy. But well-written and kept me entertained.<---C>Scott McElhaney</---C>", "Title": "One Crazy Summer"},
