{"Comments": "What does it take to inspire someone to read a book? Is it enough to give a heartfelt plea to the book's worthiness? Maybe a meme? Or jazzhands? Will jazzhands convince you? I know, a meme about jazzhands! Admit it! This is pretty damn irresistible! Okay, well, if you're one of those strange people who would choose a convincing, well-informed review over a meme of a tiny turtle doing jazzhands then... Are you sure I can't convince you with jazzhands? Maybe throw in a shuffle for you? <+++>Seraphina</+++> is half What does it take to inspire someone to read a book? Is it enough to give a heartfelt plea to the book's worthiness? Maybe a meme? Or jazzhands? Will jazzhands convince you? I know, a meme about jazzhands! Admit it! This is pretty damn irresistible! Okay, well, if you're one of those strange people who would choose a convincing, well-informed review over a meme of a tiny turtle doing jazzhands then... Are you sure I can't convince you with jazzhands? Maybe throw in a shuffle for you? <+++>Seraphina</+++> is half dragon, and not because her father struggles with the basic nuances of the English language.<---F> Well, maybe a little bit</---F>... In this epic fantasy by debut author, <---A>Rachel Hartman</---A>, Seraphina is an abomination who must hide her true self from everyone lest she and her father are killed for heresy. Dragons have the ability to fold themselves into human bodies and have maintained a strenuous peace with the human kingdoms. Seraphina's life is put into jeopardy when court intrigue and mystery implicates that the treaty between dragons and humans is in danger. Hartman's novel is almost flawlessly executed. The novel,<---M> whilst long</---M>, is easily readable. Hartman doesn't rush her narrative, but neither does it seem to drag or falter. Aside from a few brief flashback sessions, the story is carried entirely by Seraphina who may be half human and half dragon, but she is all brilliant. She is the equivalent of some kind of bear/dragon hybrid. Like, a bear/dragon hybrid that can breath fire. Yeah, that level of coolness. Well, what do you know? They have a meme for that! Often in novels, the female MC will profess to be extremely smart but, much to my chagrin, behave agonizingly stupidly and prove to have the mental faculties of a gnat. Seraphina is the total opposite of TSTL. She is brilliant, charming, ballsy and brave. All the while, she is also tactile, honest and fully-developed. Actually, I can not think of a single character in this book that I could argue as being two-dimensional or aggravating. In fact, I absolutely loved the portrayal of strong female characters in this book. It was done with such grace and humanity that I found myself respecting most of the women in this book. Glisselda and the Queen were fantastic characters whom I absolutely adored. Kiggs, as the love interest, was believable, endearing and wonderful. His character, so eccentric, so insightful and honourable, completely won me over. His relationship with Seraphina was genuine, subtle and romantic. The best thing? He wasn't any over-developed Romanticized Alpha Male! Thank goodness! He rocked it without needing to bully, oppress or corner Seraphina in any way! The pacing is excellent for a lengthy novel. I gobbled it up and only at the very end did I feel any desire to speed things up. It is also beautifully well-written. The imagery alone was breath-takingly beautiful. The prose were polished and elegant. It was a pleasure to read. This novel was so full of emotion, beauty and poetry that I was honestly startled because I expected none of it. I must confess that I am an acquaintance of Hartman here on GoodReads. I had grown a healthy respect for her opinions and expression, so I entered into reading Seraphina with a certain amount of skepticism and trepidation. I wonder if Hartman felt a similar trepidation when she saw that I had applied for her ARC and decided to read it! Because, let's face it, I'm not exactly known to be the most generous of reviewers. That's probably actually an understatement. If you think that my opinion of this book has been swayed by my association with the author, then feel free to make your own mind up about it. I'm sure more reviews will be popping up soon. But, to be honest, I didn't know what to expect when starting this novel. I've read work by friends before and had to put them aside, with embarrassment. This time is different. When Seraphina is released, I will buy this novel and treasure it. I will probably read it again and again when I need a laugh, or a romantic story or something to relax to. In fact, I loved this novel so much that I want to recommend it to everyone. I want to go get everyone I know and make them read it. This is the kind of novel that deserves to be published, that deserves to be successful. We need more of this out there. Not another trashy teen YA. This is the good shit. Right here. So, my question is, what will it take to inspire you to read this book? This ARC was provided to me by Random House publishers. No money or favours were exchanged.* ...more Sometimes you read a book, agree with all positive reviews of it, but it just doesn't work for you. That's the case with Seraphina and me. Whatever you've read in 5-star reviews here, on Goodreads, is all true. Seraphina is an intelligent fantasy set in a well-realized medieval land of Goredd which is celebrating 40-year anniversary of its peace treaty with the nation of dragons. The dragons are conceived with a lot of originality. They have an ability to \"fold\" into human bodies (weredragons any Sometimes you read a book, agree with all positive reviews of it, but it just doesn't work for you. That's the case with Seraphina and me. Whatever you've read in 5-star reviews here, on Goodreads, is all true. Seraphina is an intelligent fantasy set in a well-realized medieval land of Goredd which is celebrating 40-year anniversary of its peace treaty with the nation of dragons. The dragons are conceived with a lot of originality. They have an ability to \"fold\" into human bodies (weredragons anyone?) and are beings of high intelligence and logic. (I saw someone on GR draw parallels with the Vulcans, and I agree, the dragons' internal conflicts about the acceptability of strong emotions are very much in tune with Spock's in the latest incarnation of Star Trek, oops, I stay corrected, EVERY incarnation of Trek.) The mystery that sets the whole story in motion is clever and wrapped up in an interesting political intrigue. As the celebration of the truce is approaching, Goredd's heir is killed and it looks like by a dragon. The main character of the novel, Seraphina is the one who is to untangle this mystery, but not without some help from Prince Lucian Kiggs, the captain of the Queen's Guard and the fiancee to Princess of the land Glisselda. This task is not easy though, as Seraphina has a secret of her own, she is a half-dragon and, by all laws of Goredd, an abomination. And, yes, as every fan of this novel says, Seraphina is a resolute, resourceful, brave heroine. If I am to point at any flaws, on the plot level, I don't have much to complain about. Really, besides the naming of two prominent secondary characters Orma and Okra that creates a bit of an unneeded confusion, a couple of info-dumpy conversations that should have been mixed into the narrative better, and the unclarity of why human/dragon hybrids would be in a possession of extraordinary mental powers that are foreign to humans and dragons, my only major qualm is the romance, which is a but hasty and intense within the time frame of this novel. It's kind of an odd experience when Seraphina, after just a couple of conversations with Kiggs, suddenly realizes that she is in love, and intensely and irrevocably at that. The romance becomes a tad more grating when an unexpected jealousy subplot is introduced, but this jealousy is not just silly and mostly baseless, but misdirected as well. You see, Lucian suspects that Seraphina's secret dragon uncle Orma is her lover (for no discernible reason), while the fact that Lucian himself is engaged is forgotten for almost the entirety of the novel. However, all these issues can be overlooked with ease, if you are enjoying the writing and Seraphina's voice. And here, unfortunately, where Seraphina and I are at an impasse. It is a matter of personal taste to be sure, but I feet the novel lacked a little something to keep me engaged. A special oomph, X-factor if you will, something to carry me forward through the rather sluggish first 100 pages or so and uninteresting to me passages about music, philosophy, saints and Seraphina's mind garden. I never connected with Seraphina, who didn't, IMO have a charisma, and that was what mainly prevented me from enjoying the novel. I appreciate the quality of Seraphina , but it is not the book I would personally return to read again and again. ...more I'll admit it: I was incredibly worried about this one. I'm always a bit wary when an author seems nice and friendly and everybody likes them on here. I know, that seems like a stupid thing to say, but it always sits in the back of my mind that ... maybe people are giving this book five stars because they like the author. Rest assured: THIS IS NOT THE CASE. I mean, sure, people who liked the book probably like Hartman too, but it's not the only reason. This book deserves its five stars; it deser I'll admit it: I was incredibly worried about this one. I'm always a bit wary when an author seems nice and friendly and everybody likes them on here. I know, that seems like a stupid thing to say, but it always sits in the back of my mind that ... maybe people are giving this book five stars because they like the author. Rest assured: THIS IS NOT THE CASE. I mean, sure, people who liked the book probably like Hartman too, but it's not the only reason. This book deserves its five stars; it deserves ALL the stars. This is definitely a meaty book. There is talk of philosophy, love, art, religion, the importance of music and dance, what it means to be human (and dragon,) as well as many other themes: especially acceptance (being accepted and accepting oneself.) I was excited to see such a smartly written book intended for young adults that wasn't dumbed-down in the least. Have your dictionary ready though (this is where a Kindle is helpful) because the vocabulary used within is not for the faint of heart. I'll admit that I was a bit annoyed that some things were never fully described (Seraphina's oud only gets a description near the end) and that all of these new words were thrown out at lightning speed, but, that's epic fantasy for you. You just have to go with it and rely on the story-telling to fill in the holes. I'm going to completely forgive the beginning; it was bumpy and disjointed and chock-full of short, declarative sentences. I don't care any more. I was nit-picking and high-lighting and tsk-ing and then ... something shifted. Hartman hit her stride and things just started to flow magically and nothing could stop me from enjoying the story. Oh, and the characters. I loved Seraphina from the start. I loved how cranky and emotional she could be, how loyal and headstrong and brave and foolhardy and loving and kind she was. She's a fantastic character and one I can't wait to read more about. And then there's Prince Lucian and Princess Glisselda. I want to separate the two of them and yet I can't bring myself to. These two were the best friends and confidants Seraphina could ask for. Glisselda was bright and sparkling but never annoying or ditsy. Lucian was witty and charming but never controlling or mean. Don't get me wrong, the whole book isn't super happy fun times for everyone, but the characters are incredibly multi-dimensional. They laugh, they cry, they throw temper tantrums, they question and judge, and it's all wholeheartedly believable. The side characters and villains are equally as fantastic as their main counterpart. Fruit Bat, Imlann, Orma, The Earl of Apsig, even Basind : they all carried their own weight and breathed life into the story. It's been a long time since I've read a tale with such a fleshed-out cast. I could easily go on and on here, but I think you can find what you're looking for in other reviews if you haven't already figured out that I loved this book. It's an excellent entry into the epic fantasy genre, and the young adult category should feel gracious that Seraphina appears upon its shelves, and if you're a fan of either you owe it to yourself to check this book out. An ARC was provided by NetGalley - thank you. ...more I finished Seraphina! And I ended up really liking it :):) will discuss in this months wrap up. This is one of the most unique dragon books you'll ever read. (I read it twice, and it isn't even out yet!) You see, in Seraphina's world, dragons are able to take human shape--and messy, sloppy human emotions. Seraphina's father fell in love with a beautiful singer and musician, and married her, and got a surprise. Now Seraphina is the assistant to the royal music master, struggling to keep her birth a secret, and caught up in the tensions that surround the celebrations for the 40th anniversary This is one of the most unique dragon books you'll ever read. (I read it twice, and it isn't even out yet!) You see, in Seraphina's world, dragons are able to take human shape--and messy, sloppy human emotions. Seraphina's father fell in love with a beautiful singer and musician, and married her, and got a surprise. Now Seraphina is the assistant to the royal music master, struggling to keep her birth a secret, and caught up in the tensions that surround the celebrations for the 40th anniversary of the peace treaty between the dragons and the humans after a long and bitter war. You see, not all humans want to preserve the treaty. They think they can win over huge flying creatures that spout flame. And not all dragons want to preserve the treaty. This is bad news when they can take human form and go unrecognized as spies and assassins. Seraphina, her musician uncle Orma, Princess Glissanda (the heir and Seraphina's music student), and Prince Lucian (in charge of security for the capital) stumble across multiple plots to destroy the treaty in the wake of a prince's murder. Can they stop a new war? You'll have to read the book. You won't be sorry! ...more I hate it when I have the impression that I am reading a different book from other readers whose opinion I value. Hate it. But it happens and unfortunately, it happened with this book. I've read some really glowing reviews but, alas, I can't just - partially - share the love. Objectively, Seraphina meets all the requirements to become the next epic fantasy series: it has an original take on a fairly exploited theme - dragons -, an amazing world-building, a well formed, strong main character, a 5 I hate it when I have the impression that I am reading a different book from other readers whose opinion I value. Hate it. But it happens and unfortunately, it happened with this book. I've read some really glowing reviews but, alas, I can't just - partially - share the love. Objectively, Seraphina meets all the requirements to become the next epic fantasy series: it has an original take on a fairly exploited theme - dragons -, an amazing world-building, a well formed, strong main character, a 5-star-worthy writing style. But let's go in order: The story is set in a world where two species exist: dragons and humans. Dragons, powerful creatures, mathematical minds, able to take human form (saarantrai) to interact with people, reject all emotions as weakness, to the point of excising them from their brains. Humans, constrained in their fragile bodies, fear dragons above all else and despise them, even in their human form, to the point of racial discrimination. These two species have been at war with one another for the longest of times, except for the past forty years when a rather unstable truce gave apparent peace to the world. Now it's the time to renew the peace. So, dragons. And humans. And then, there's Seraphina. She is the unthinkable, a half-dragon. It is imperative her identity remain a secret, but when the Prince of Goredd is found brutally murdered and all fingers point to the dragons, Seraphina becomes the unwilling protagonist of an investigation to unveil a plot that is threatening to jeopardize an already unstable peace and which will oblige her to face her most dreaded nightmare: the truth about herself. Sounds awesome, doesn't it? Dragons that can take human form, that speak their own language (Mootya), that are organized and regulated by an Ardmagar and a council of Censors. I found it fascinating. In fact, the world-building is extremely well developed and detailed. To be honest, I haven't read that many books about dragons, and I'd say this is probably on the same level as Eon: Dragoneye Reborn , as far a world-building goes. Seraphina is an amazing character. Caught in the middle between two worlds, neither here nor there, she has been taught to despise a part of herself, to keep it secreted. She lives a lie and will never be accepted by either worlds. She is an abomination. I loved her passion for music, her witty personality, her intelligence and self-deprecating sense of humor. I loved how she grows during the story, how she comes to term with her feelings, how lies do not belong to her but have only been inculcated in her, how she is fundamentally honest. Even the love story, which could have been a potential love triangle, comes out as believable, growing and sweet. Lucian is a bit too much the perfect guy for me, too good through and through, but still very likable. I found much more interesting a whole set of bizarre side characters: Madame Okra, Abdo, Viridius, Orma, Basind. They had me laughing most of the time and were truly what MADE this book for me. Hartman's writing is what I'd define sophisticated and recherch\u00e9 . I had to look up a fair amount of words, my favorite probably being houppelande . There are no doubts about the quality of her writing and truly, there isn't much more to say about it. But I have to defend my 3 stars. I'll sum it up in one word: pacing. Despite the fantastic world-building, the amazing characters and the luscious writing, I had such a hard time getting through this book, I considered abandoning it on more than one occasion. The quantity of information to take in in the first, say, 150 pages of the book is massive and not always explained in a way to make it crystal clear. Some things are just thrown there and then explained 50 pages later. There's a whole universe of saints to digest that... really, were they necessary? And there is barely any action up until - I marked it - page 168.To be honest: too slow for me, sometimes it really could not keep my attention. I had a hard time wrapping my head around Seraphina's \"garden\" and her grotesques, I felt the need for a bit more physical descriptions - of the Quigutl, for example - and a MAP. I really, really wanted to see a map. How is this world? Where is the Tanamoot? How many other kingdoms are there and where are they in respect to Goredd? So three stars. I enjoyed it because I was stubborn and kept reading and was finally rewarded in the second part but I'm not sure everybody would get through those first 100 and odd pages. Or maybe it's just me, other readers seem to adore it. I'm looking forward to seeing the cover for it and I will surely pick up the sequel to this adventure with dragons, hoping that, with the infodump out of the way, I will find it a bit more fast-paced. Find this review and and more at The Nocturnal Library ...more Actual rating: 4.5 stars Oh yes, Rachel Hartman. YES! This.was.good. I usually don't pick up many high fantasy novels. For example, I hate Lord of the Rings. Don't flame me! It's just that it's not usually a genre I mesh well with. In fact, I think aside from Seraphina I have read a grand total of two high fantasy books this year: Eon: Dragoneye Reborn and Eona: The Last Dragoneye . Coincidentally, all three have dragons in them. Hmm...perhaps the universe is trying to tell me something there. Drago Actual rating: 4.5 stars Oh yes, Rachel Hartman. YES! This.was.good. I usually don't pick up many high fantasy novels. For example, I hate Lord of the Rings. Don't flame me! It's just that it's not usually a genre I mesh well with. In fact, I think aside from Seraphina I have read a grand total of two high fantasy books this year: Eon: Dragoneye Reborn and Eona: The Last Dragoneye . Coincidentally, all three have dragons in them. Hmm...perhaps the universe is trying to tell me something there. Dragons?! Yes, dragons . I know what you're probably thinking. So, let me help you. Who's a good boy, Toothless? I could watch him chase that little light all day. But, no, not those kinds of dragons. Burn, baby, burn. Now, that's more like it. Sixteen-year-old Seraphina Dombegh lives in a world where dragons have the ability to transform their bodies into humans and walk amongst mankind. Previously, dragons and humans have warred against one another, but for forty years there has been strained peace thanks to a treaty. The time arrives for the peace treaty to once again be signed and a member of the royal family has been found murdered. What's even more interesting is that it appears to be the work of a dragon. With Treaty Day swiftly approaching, Seraphina finds herself in the midst of the investigation, assisting Prince Lucian Kiggs in discovering the murderer, all the while trying desperately to hide her own secret: being half dragon. A few things I LOVED about Seraphina: The World Building: I really have to commend Hartman because this is a brilliant debut and I feel very fortunate to have read it months before the release. She has created a very believable society and I can just imagine all the research she put into this crafting the religion, clothing, races, philosophers, customs, ect. Initially, when I first started I felt a bit overwhelmed because of the names and culture. It's just that rich . But once I got into the story, I was just amazed at how well constructed the world building was. The Characters: I have to say, I was not once irritated at the main character, Seraphina (BTW: awesome name!). She is very headstrong and determined. When she first discovers a plot to disrupt the peace, she does not hesitate to get to the bottom of things even if that means doing things herself. This, of course, is her strength and her weakness. Having to hide her secret her whole life has left her unable to trust easily. This directly impacts her relationship with her partner in the investigation, Prince Lucian Kiggs. But as the novel wears on, we see a growth in Seraphina and her ability to trust and rely on her friends. My favorite character has to be a toss-up between Princess Glisselda and Orma. For secondary characters, I felt they were very well developed throughout the novel. It's kind of ironic that they would come to be my favorites since in the beginning I didn't really care for either one. They possessed qualities (or at least I thought they did) that I found ugly (rudeness, apathetic, tactless, and uncaring). I suppose this is just another cool point for Hartman's writing style and character development for changing my mind completely before the novel's end. The Plot and The Pacing: Simply brilliant. The best way I can describe it would be to say it's like a cross between Sherlock Holmes and dragon lore fantasy. I found the novel's length to be perfect for the pacing, giving just the right amount of time for relationships to develop, the mystery to be solved, and ending realistically. The Ending: Very well done! I never saw the ending coming and was left completely satisfied with it. There are some series where the installments feel more like a part one or part two of a story, but then there are others like Seraphina that could stand alone just fine. While I know Seraphina's journey is not yet over, the immediate threat in the novel is resolved. I really appreciated that. This novel speaks for itself and doesn't need to rely on a cliffhanger to keep a reader interested in a sequel. Seraphina is definitely a book you should look out for in 2012. I, for one, cannot wait for the sequel! Disclaimer: An ARC was provided by the publisher for reviewing purposes and while Rachel Hartman is a GoodReads friend of mine, these are my honest thoughts on the book. More reviews and more at Cuddlebuggery Book Blog . Please DO NOT click the spoilers in the comments. They are real and will ruin the book for you! ...more Think you've read everything about dragons? Think it's a worn-out concept? Seraphina will make you think again. Our heroine of the title lives in a human kingdom that is about to celebrate forty years of a peace treaty with the draconian race, but old prejudice dies hard. When the ruler of the dragons comes to the capital to commemorate the treaty, many factions on both sides wish to sabotage the fragile peace. Hartman's dragons are fascinating. They are part Vulcan from Star Trek -- logical bei Think you've read everything about dragons? Think it's a worn-out concept? Seraphina will make you think again. Our heroine of the title lives in a human kingdom that is about to celebrate forty years of a peace treaty with the draconian race, but old prejudice dies hard. When the ruler of the dragons comes to the capital to commemorate the treaty, many factions on both sides wish to sabotage the fragile peace. Hartman's dragons are fascinating. They are part Vulcan from Star Trek -- logical beings who assiduously suppress their violent emotions -- and part Benedict Cumberbatch's Sherlock -- high-functioning sociopaths who can do trigonometry in their heads and tell you exactly how many people are standing in a crowd, but who don't understand the concept of music or shaking hands (or sometimes even wearing clothes). The dragons can take on human form -- saarantrai -- which only makes things more complicated. Needless to say, dragons and humans are forbidden from falling in love, which doesn't mean it never happens . . . A great YA fantasy with plenty of intrigue and romance and several intertwining mysteries that will keep you reading. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 4.5 stars The oldest of my three younger sisters loves books as much as I do, but doesn't have nearly as much time to read (b/c reasons). Fortunately, I know her well enough to keep recs to what I know she'll love so she can make the best use of the time she does have, not begrudging me my surplus of time--b/c otherwise, who would weed out the mediocre books? The most recent book I knew she'd love is this one, but I was rereading it before Shadow Scale is released next mon Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 4.5 stars The oldest of my three younger sisters loves books as much as I do, but doesn't have nearly as much time to read (b/c reasons). Fortunately, I know her well enough to keep recs to what I know she'll love so she can make the best use of the time she does have, not begrudging me my surplus of time--b/c otherwise, who would weed out the mediocre books? The most recent book I knew she'd love is this one, but I was rereading it before Shadow Scale is released next month, and I couldn't remember if she'd already read it (b/c my memory is crap), so the day after I finished it: Me : Hey, did you ever read Seraphina ? Sister : Sarah-what? Me : Se-ra-phin-a. It came out like 5(ish) years ago. It's about this girl who's a half-dragon-- Sister : Ooohhh . . . I wanna be a dragon. Me : Half dragon. Sister : Or a half dragon. Me : Would you really want to be a dragon? Sister : Depends . . . Would I lay eggs or have normal babies? Me : Eggs if you were a dragon, babies if you were half dragon. Sister : Then I want to be a dragon. Me : o.O Sister : Whatever, being a dragon would be awesome. Flying around, breathing fire, hoarding treasure-- Me : Actually, the dragon leader guy outlawed hoarding treasure, so now they hoard knowledge. Sister : So I get to hoard books?! Me : Yep. Sister : Could it be any more perfect? NO. No, it could not . As I said previously, Seraphina (the MC, not the title) is a half dragon. As such, she belongs no where and to no one. Yes, there has been a tentative peace between the two races for the past fourty years, but humans are notorious for hating that which frightens them, and these dragons are rather Vulcan-like in their views on pesky emotions. Vulcans don't marry outside of their species (unless political reasons *squints at Spock, Sr.*), and they definitely don't marry for love. Neither do dragons. And humans are so horrified by the concept that they have half a dozen Saints encouraging medieval reactions to any cross-species dalliances. BUT they're not too worried about it, b/c like that would happen anyway-- everyone knows they should be killing the dragons (b/c dragons). So Seraphina lives a solitary existence, in constant fear of discovery. That sounds rather morose, doesn't it? Without undermining the relevant points being made, I will tell you that it absolutely isn't. In fact, it's quietly hilarious. When Seraphina begins coming into her half dragon-ness as a preteen, she begins to have seizures brought on by strange visions of even stranger creatures she's never seen before. He uncle, on the dragon (or saar) side, asks that her father hand over the reins of her education: \"To you,\" sneered my father. \"And what will you do with her? She can't go two hours without these infernal visions giving her seizures.\" \"We could work on that, to start. We saar have techniques for taming a rebellious brain.\" Orma tapped his own forehead, and then tapped it again as if the sensation intrigued him. Why had it never struck me how deeply peculiar he was? And once he has those reins: He answered even my most impudent questions. Yes, dragons could smell colors under the right circumstances. Yes, it was a terrible idea to transform into a saarantras right after eating an aurochs. AUROCHS: Saarantras is a dragon's human form, so you can see why it would be a bad idea to downsize so dramatically after aurochs consumption. *snorts* Stuff like this is also why I believe in dragons, fyi. I mean, really . . . a dragon is basically a winged dinosaur: That may or may not have breathed fire . . . not exactly a huge stretch . . . So the plot is fantastic. What about the characters? ALSO fantastic. My favorite after Seraphina herself is Lars, a blond giant, a foreigner, and a fellow musician. I would love him for his (not-so-vaguely German) accent alone: Lars glowered defensively, as if he anticipated a scolding or a profession of love. Yes, that was it: he thought I meant to proposition him. He wore a closed expression, as if rehearsing a speech in his head, a way to let me down gently after I stripped off all my clothes. Sorry, Seraphina, I dondt like grausleiner thet can put their voices in my headt Orma, the dragon uncle, is wonderful as well. He gradually changes from the typical rude and insensitive dragon, to a . . . less rude and insensitive dragon. *snickers* Both versions are highly entertaining: \u201cI\u2019m attracting small children,\u201d Orma muttered, twisting his hat in his hands. \u201cShoo it away, will you?\u201d And when he allows himself to feel the things he's so long denied, he is helpless to express them: \u201cWho will kiss you? Who will rock you to sleep?\" His voice was slow, drowsy. \"You never did,\" I said, trying to tease him. \"You were more father to me than my father, but you never did that.\" \"Someone should. Someone should love you. I will bite him if he will not.\" And finally, the princess, who is a bizarre yet winsome, combination of oblivious and ridiculous: \"Two Knights came to the castle today!\" She could barely contain herself; her hands fluttered about like two excitable small birds . . . \"They claim to have spotted a rogue dragon, flying around the countryside in its natural shape! Isn't that awful?\" Awful enough to have her grinning ear to ear. She was a strange little princess. While still somehow managing to be highly intelligent, and on occasion, even wise. Ultimately, Seraphina is one of those books that never really goes away. Along with Poison Study , it was one of the first YA fantasies that I read and loved as an adult, so once again, I was worried about whether or not it would live up to my memories . . . I should not have been. It was every bit as clever and amusing, as pertinent and thought-provoking, and as lovely and bittersweet as I remembered. Highly recommended. ...more I wanted to love this book, because..dragons!! It's not a bad book and it's well written. I just don't think high fantasy may be one of the genre's that I can really get into. Too many weird words and names. I mean Orma and Okra? I tend to be a lazy reader and if I have to work for it by remembering odd words and names I get to where I just want to put the book down and grab another. My little requesting finger requested the second book in this series from Netgalley and it sounded so good and th I wanted to love this book, because..dragons!! It's not a bad book and it's well written. I just don't think high fantasy may be one of the genre's that I can really get into. Too many weird words and names. I mean Orma and Okra? I tend to be a lazy reader and if I have to work for it by remembering odd words and names I get to where I just want to put the book down and grab another. My little requesting finger requested the second book in this series from Netgalley and it sounded so good and the ratings for this one are through the roof...so what did I do? End up not caring much for the book. I'm sorry all you Seraphina lovers. I'm shelving it for now and I may try it again later. ...more How Seraphina is different from nearly all the young adult novels out there, especially of the fantasy/paranormal variety: 1. There isn't a single moment in here where you'll want to a) throttle any of the main characters, b) stab yourself in the eye, or c) smirk at the cheesy dialogue. 2. You know all those books with dragons? The ones that seem either too clich\u00e9d or too different from what you imagined dragons as? Seraphina is about as far from those books as it gets. In fact, it's in another l How Seraphina is different from nearly all the young adult novels out there, especially of the fantasy/paranormal variety: 1. There isn't a single moment in here where you'll want to a) throttle any of the main characters, b) stab yourself in the eye, or c) smirk at the cheesy dialogue. 2. You know all those books with dragons? The ones that seem either too clich\u00e9d or too different from what you imagined dragons as? Seraphina is about as far from those books as it gets. In fact, it's in another league altogether, one where dragons are cold, manipulating creatures completely independent of humans and humans operate under the misconception that they actually have some control over the beasts. 3. The world-building is exceptionally meticulous. There's no info-dumping going on here; the world is well-built and very well-executed. 4. The plot is largely unpredictable. Not the type of unpredictable that is synonymous with unbelievable, but the sort where you're left completely awestruck, with a little bit of embarrassment thrown in because you didn't see that coming at all , even though most of the clues were perfectly visible. 5. And finally, an enormous point in its favor is that Seraphina can be read and enjoyed by both genders and all age groups. The plot and story is complex enough for adults to appreciate, but narrated in such a lively and entertaining voice that even 11+ year-olds should be able to grasp the content and, best of all, identify with Seraphina. I highly recommend Seraphina if most of the following applies to you: 1. You are sick and tired of TSTL heroines who always wait on the hero to take the initiative on everything . 2. You loathe love triangles, especially poorly-executed ones. 3. You're constantly disappointed with all the potential in young adult novels being unexploited. 4. You love fairy tales and specifically Mulan because she never lets anyone boss her around and knows when to take matters into her own hands. 5. You often feel that cliffhangers are a cheap, albeit efficient, trick to get people to buy the sequel. The only problem I had with the book was that I never completely lost myself in the story and characters. The pacing was also highly irregular, being too slow at the beginning and too fast towards the end. That aside, Hartman has created an unforgettably beautiful world in Seraphina , one I can't wait to visit again. While this can easily be a stand-alone novel, I'm delighted that it'll be a series instead because I'm not ready to say good-bye to Seraphina and Kiggs just yet. Absolute favorite quote: (view spoiler) [\"I can't bear that you'll be alone.\" \"Not alone. There are others of my kind. I'm going to find them.\" \"Who will kiss you? Who will rock you to sleep?\" His voice was slow, drowsy. \"You never did,\" I said, trying to tease him. \"You were more father to me than my father, but you never did that.\" \"Someone should. Someone should love you. I will bite him if he will not.\" (hide spoiler) ] 3.5/5 stars For more reviews, visit my blog . ...more 4.5 stars Fantasy lovers, rejoice! This is an amazing debut novel, and I feel confident that we have a new series to devour, covet, and hoard ARCs of in a cave somewhere. Not that I do that. This is the story of two societies, diametrically different, but living together under a fragile peace treaty. The dragons are analytical thinkers who don\u2019t understand emotion, art, or music. They view emotion and attachment as distasteful and are taught strict control. But the humans are interesting to them, i 4.5 stars Fantasy lovers, rejoice! This is an amazing debut novel, and I feel confident that we have a new series to devour, covet, and hoard ARCs of in a cave somewhere. Not that I do that. This is the story of two societies, diametrically different, but living together under a fragile peace treaty. The dragons are analytical thinkers who don\u2019t understand emotion, art, or music. They view emotion and attachment as distasteful and are taught strict control. But the humans are interesting to them, in an intellectual sense, and so they begin to transform themselves - to take human shape and study human behaviors. And as any two societies who live side by side, the humans and the dragons collide, damage, and change one another irrevocably. Seraphina is the product of that change: a human/dragon hybrid born from a dragon mother who found that she could love passionately and couldn\u2019t go back. Seraphina is an abomination, and can\u2019t reveal her true identity for fear of violent intolerance. This is fantasy at its absolute best: the landscape and inhabitants, customs, religion, language, and conflicts might be completely imaginary, but they are also so completely fathomable and rife with emotional honesty. Fantasy allows us to take up the role of outsider, explorer, looking in and discovering for the first time. But the amazing thing is that for all its foreignness, fantasy can gift us with so much real insight into our own society. It's as if, by acting as outsiders, we can see everything more clearly. That\u2019s what I felt when I read this book. This could very well be a book about civil rights, or women\u2019s rights, or gay rights. Seraphina is born into an identity that she didn\u2019t choose, and must deal with the shame, the lies, and a future without true connection to anyone. And just like in our own society, there are those who view any kind of novelty or change as a threat to their very existence. This is a serious book, but it also made me laugh, sigh, and struggle with a lump in my throat. Seraphina is a completely inspiring heroine, beautiful in her vulnerability and naked bravery. The romance is a true meeting of the minds; I\u2019m not sure that I even know what Lucian Kiggs really looks like. The writing is lovely (what a gorgeous opening paragraph!) and truly got under my skin in a few places. There were only a few times where I felt like a little bit less would have made more of an impact. But there is so much potential here; I suspect that this author will only get better. And I will never, ever underestimate the seductive power of math. Perfect Musical Pairing Bjork \u2013 Joga I kept returning to Bjork while reading this. Her new album is (like her others) highly experimental. She uses uncommon musical structure and even some brand new instruments that she\u2019s invented. The album comes with a downloadable app so that listeners can \u201cinteract with\u201d the music. After reading this book, I can only conclude that Bjork is a human-dragon hybrid. This is one of my favorites of hers, and I think that the lyrics and the mood can relate so heavily to the dragons, in human form, and experiencing strong emotions that they can\u2019t decipher. \u201dYou don't have to speak I feel Emotional landscapes They puzzle me Confuse Then the riddle gets solved and you push me up to this State of emergency How beautiful to be\u201d Also seen on The Readventurer . ...more You know, the internet is a strange place. You meet so many people, and they influence your life in so many ways, and yet you might spend an entire lifetime without ever once seeing the face of the person you count as a friend. And yet, they are friends. Maybe not the kind you can call at one in the night to cry about your cheating asshole of a boyfriend, but the kind you'd like to meet for a drink, and chill out with and have fun, stimulating conversation with. And so, with prolonged internet i You know, the internet is a strange place. You meet so many people, and they influence your life in so many ways, and yet you might spend an entire lifetime without ever once seeing the face of the person you count as a friend. And yet, they are friends. Maybe not the kind you can call at one in the night to cry about your cheating asshole of a boyfriend, but the kind you'd like to meet for a drink, and chill out with and have fun, stimulating conversation with. And so, with prolonged internet interaction comes this weird feeling of knowing someone. I think this may be even more true of people on Goodreads, because I feel like we put so much of ourselves into our reviews, and then we just send it out there for the world to see. Little bits and pieces of our souls, just floating around on the interwebs. So, to get to the point (and yes, there was a point in there. Somewhere.) I've been 'friends' with Rachel Hartman for a while now. And I adore her to bits. She's smart and she's freakin' hilarious and she's talented. So talented, she can draw pictures in your mind with one sentence. (view spoiler) [ And no, she's not paying me to say this. (view spoiler) [ And no, I'm not sleeping with her either. (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] But despite the friendship and the internet-based intimacy et al, Seraphina took me completely, totally by surprise. Not in its awesomeness, because awesomeness was pretty much guaranteed, but in the method of its awesome. I was expecting this book to be witty and self-deprecating and obscurely erudite. And it was all those things. But it was also sharply poignant and touching and introspective. It was a book about dragons, and dragons are made of win, of course; but it was also a book about growing up and finding yourself and accepting yourself. It was a book about how no (wo)man is an island, and it was a book about how Shrek thought Fiona was so much more beautiful as an ogress. It was a tribute to the beauty of being flawed, and it was a tribute to the age of honorable men. This book takes the serious, makes it absurd and then makes you think beyond the absurdity. Look into the heart of things, and Fruit Bat will become more than just a cute nickname. Seraphina is the heart of this book, but its in the supporting cast that the book finds its soul. Little bits of soul, floating through the pages. Almost like real life. And Uncle Orma. Uncle Orma was my absolute favorite. How could I help it? It's Spock with scales!!! And Kiggs. Kiggs was so awesome. A man in a million, with his honor intact, and so beautifully human and flawed. Screw you, alpha males, a real man gets angry, gets scared, gets stupid. They can't all be (insert standard Twilight insult/reference here) perfect sparkling marble sculptures! And, saving the best for last, Seraphina was ADORABLE. She's all the things I want my characters to be. Smart? Check. Believable? Check. Real-as-all-hell? Check. Annoying and amazing in turns? Check. Pay attention, you YA writers, this is how it's done! The only thing that drove me nuts about this book was a little conceit that was so peculiarly Rachel, I couldn't help but forgive her for it. The story is full of (totally made-up) references to random philosophers, a shared point between Kiggs and Seraphina, sure, but one that totally excludes the reader. The characters talk about these philosophers and their philosophies like we've already read all of their writings and are just coming into the middle of a perfectly-comprehensible debate about them, but the truth of the matter is, you're mostly left scratching your head and wondering what the eff they're going on about. It felt like Rachel was trying so hard to make sure the connection between her characters was as much intellectual as emotional, that she went a bit overboard with it all. But. BUT. This book will rock your socks off, if you have any interest at all in interesting, well-written fantasy. It's not the fast-and-easy kind of read; rather, it is full of the unsaid and the unwritten, things that you have to think about, ideas that you have to process, emotions that you have to absorb. But in the end, so completely, totally worth it in a way I can't even begin to express. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I have so much love for Rachel Hartman and this book! My five-star ratings are few and far between, but I\u2019d give Seraphina ten if I could. It was so easy to get lost in this world of humans, dragons and those in-between \u2013 I still haven\u2019t found my way back. Hartman\u2019s dragons are magnificent creatures, full of intersting paradoxes. On a physical level, they produce fire, but on an emotional level, they\u2019re cold and tightly controlled. They go to great lengths to remain emotionless, even though thei I have so much love for Rachel Hartman and this book! My five-star ratings are few and far between, but I\u2019d give Seraphina ten if I could. It was so easy to get lost in this world of humans, dragons and those in-between \u2013 I still haven\u2019t found my way back. Hartman\u2019s dragons are magnificent creatures, full of intersting paradoxes. On a physical level, they produce fire, but on an emotional level, they\u2019re cold and tightly controlled. They go to great lengths to remain emotionless, even though their saars (human shapes) are more susceptible to emotions. They have ways to excise these unwanted emotions from their brains and they keep close watch on dragons suspected of harboring human emotions. Dragons used meditation and what Orma called cognitive architecture to partition their minds into discrete spaces. They kept their maternal memories in one room, for example, because they were disruptively intense; the one maternal memory I\u2019d experienced had bowled me over. Emotions, which the saar found uncomfortable and overpowering, were locked away securely and never permitted to leak out. The world Hartman created has a distinctly Medieval feel, but with many exceptions and liberties that were quite unimaginable in the Middle Ages. She took the time to build this world, which resulted in somewhat slower pacing, but I didn\u2019t mind in the least. I find that I\u2019m willing to suffer through almost anything if that means I\u2019ll end up with a complete and well thought-out world. Fortunately, Hartman\u2019s intricate worldbuilding didn\u2019t come at a price. From the very first sentence, Seraphina had me entranced. I took my time reading it and I appreciate that it allowed me to do that. The best books aren\u2019t those that practically force you to turn pages. True works of art permit you to enjoy them slowly, at your own pace, and it takes a great author to achieve that. As for Seraphina, oh my! If there was ever a heroine one could admire with no doubts or hesitations, a heroine whose every action is an inspiration, it\u2019s Maid Seraphina Dombegh. Half-human and half-dragon, she isn\u2019t even supposed to exist, and yet she finds a way to live so fully despite her need for secrecy. Phina has the best of both worlds: quick logical thinking and problem solving typical of dragons tempered with inherently human warmth and loyalty. I think these words directed to her by Dame Okra, another half-dragon, describe her better than I ever could: Whatever else may be true of you, you do things your own way, with a refreshingly self-assured pigheadedness. I like that! Over time, Seraphina falls deeply in love with Prince Lucian Kiggs, queen\u2019s bastard grandson and fianc\u00e9 of Princess Glisselda, heir to the throne. Kiggs is the captain of the Queen\u2019s Guard, competent, fiercely intelligent, and loyal to a fault. When she first meets him, Seraphina thinks of him as plain, but the more time she spends with him, the more beautiful he becomes in her eyes. They share so much, these two \u2013 their curiosity and love for philosophy, but above all, their loyalty to Glisselda, which makes it impossible for them to be together. Such bittersweet, well-written romance would be my favorite part in any book, but in Seraphina, the competition is hard. Singling anything out would be unfair to all the other parts I absolutely adore. As soon as Dracomachia gets a cover, I\u2019ll pre-order a copy. I don\u2019t pre-order books with no covers, it\u2019s just another one of my oddities, but this one almost made me break my own rule. I hope my friend Catie will forgive me for stealing her line, but I simply couldn\u2019t resist: Fantasy lovers, rejoice! ...more I talked about this one on NPR ( http://www.npr.org/2012/12/22/1675627... ) when I was highlighting the best 2012 YA fiction I'd read IN 2012. Here's what I said: My relationship with high fantasy \u2014 fantasy set in another world \u2014 has always been tumultuous. Actually, I'd like to refer you to the first item on this list. Everything I said about historical fiction also applies here. Which is why, despite multiple recommendations, I let this debut novel about a half-dragon, half-human girl sit unread I talked about this one on NPR ( http://www.npr.org/2012/12/22/1675627... ) when I was highlighting the best 2012 YA fiction I'd read IN 2012. Here's what I said: My relationship with high fantasy \u2014 fantasy set in another world \u2014 has always been tumultuous. Actually, I'd like to refer you to the first item on this list. Everything I said about historical fiction also applies here. Which is why, despite multiple recommendations, I let this debut novel about a half-dragon, half-human girl sit unread on my desk for five months. I'll admit I very much wanted to remain a curmudgeon, but the thorough world-building and specific characters won me over. This city of austere dragons and emotional humans felt complete, as if I could turn down any number of alleys and never find the seams showing. At 480 pages, the novel is satisfyingly plump with politics, religion and prejudice \u2014 and a restrained but edifying measure of love. It also has a healthy dose of music (I was unsurprised to discover Rachel Hartman was a fellow admirer of medieval polyphony), and I find I'm very interested to see what Hartman writes next. Teens and adults alike will love to creep down the magical streets of Seraphina's city. I certainly did. ...more Fantasy is my favorite genre, but oftentimes I find that fantasy tales are often too simplistic or too pretentious for my liking.\u00a0Fantasy authors have the burdensome task of creating worlds and cultures that feel real and somewhat familiar but nonetheless offer a sense of danger, wonder, and excitement that few of us experience in our day-to-day lives. In the end, many fantasy novels don't sustain that balance of normalcy and humanity interwoven with the threads of fantasy...but Seraphina remark Fantasy is my favorite genre, but oftentimes I find that fantasy tales are often too simplistic or too pretentious for my liking.\u00a0Fantasy authors have the burdensome task of creating worlds and cultures that feel real and somewhat familiar but nonetheless offer a sense of danger, wonder, and excitement that few of us experience in our day-to-day lives. In the end, many fantasy novels don't sustain that balance of normalcy and humanity interwoven with the threads of fantasy...but Seraphina remarkably did. Seraphina is a tale of dragons and intrigues, music and emotions, humanity and prejudices. Forty years prior, the age of knights battling dragons ended with a peace treaty between the queen of Goredd and the king of dragons. Now, dragons shift into human skins and live among humans...but the animosity between the two kinds is far from forgotten. Seraphina Dombegh copes with this world and keeps to her music even as she tries her best not to be noticed, for the dragons aren't the only ones with secrets to keep... In the vein of novels from Gail Carson Levine , Megan Whalen Turner , and Tamora Pierce , the kind of fantasy represented here sings of both our world and another world quite different from our own. Religion here acts as either a comfort or simply tradition to the people who receive patron saints at their christening ceremonies; analytical minds respect studies and knowledge but have much to learn as far as the study of the heart goes; and bigotry leaks into actions due to lack of understanding and an overabundance of fear. Goredd is a well-realized fantasy world comprised of many flaws from our own societies yet many of the same fascinations as well; it's not hard to fall into the imagining that perhaps this place exists in another space and time. Strong and believable world-building aside, the novel's finest strength lies in its namesake heroine, who ties the themes and emotions running throughout the novel all together within her own existence and journey. Seraphina is by no means perfect or \"too good for her own good\": she has flaws and makes (sometimes mortifying) mistakes. But she isn't the kind of character who remains stagnant or oblivious to her own shortcomings. Rather, she learns from them and grows because of her experiences. If anything, more heroines should be like Seraphina, whose growth over the course of the novel is anything but superficial. Last but not least, the story is honestly enjoyable . It's not the kind of fantasy where you feel like a mere observer but rather an unseen companion to all the goings-on within Goredd. There are moments ripe for smiles and laughs, for surprise and gasps, for melancholy expressions and contemplation...and all of it is done in a straightforward yet thoughtful narrative that can't help but play with your heartstrings. Seraphina was all that for me and more, and I hope other readers will find treasures of thought within its pages just as I did. I must offer fair warning, however: the ending is bittersweet in its own way...but mostly for the fact that, with Seraphina 's release date of spring 2012, the wait for the sequel will be long indeed. Note: I received an advanced copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley. ...more Soy incapaz de pasar de la p\u00e1gina 100. Se me estaba haciendo muy muy pesado y he decidido dejarlo. Review contains the slightest of slight spoilers... \u201cScattered and peculiar- some of us were sceptical and bitter- we were a people. And I was at the hub of this enormous wheel. I could bring us together. In a way, I already had.\u201d Initial Final Page Thoughts. I liked it better than I thought I would, which says a lot for a fantasy-phobe like me. High Points. Seraphina. The world- It was beautifully constructed. Dragons. ORMA. Courts. Concerts. Parades. Emotions. Scales. Dreams. \u201cTending the garden Review contains the slightest of slight spoilers... \u201cScattered and peculiar- some of us were sceptical and bitter- we were a people. And I was at the hub of this enormous wheel. I could bring us together. In a way, I already had.\u201d Initial Final Page Thoughts. I liked it better than I thought I would, which says a lot for a fantasy-phobe like me. High Points. Seraphina. The world- It was beautifully constructed. Dragons. ORMA. Courts. Concerts. Parades. Emotions. Scales. Dreams. \u201cTending the garden\u201d . Fruit bat. Mrs Fusspots. Gavotting. Intrigue. War. Gold. Trinkets. Secrets. Knights. Jongleurs. Memories. Low Points. See love interest. Also, there were huge chunks of the story where hardly anything happened. I found myself flicking back to see if I\u2019d just missed a major battle scene or something. But I hadn\u2019t. When things happened it was great but, unfortunately, these parts were few and far between. It\u2019s clear that Ms Hartman is extremely skilled in world building and wow, what a world she built. It was so dense and intricate that you could imagine walking through the town. I just wish she had used some of those writing skills to add a bit more plot. Now, I\u2019m not the biggest fantasy fan (I\u2019ve never even got through LOTR films. I know, I know. Smite me down, fantasy fans!) and I don\u2019t mind admitting that it\u2019s probably because of a mix of not finding it interesting and not understanding it. I found Seraphina interesting and I probably understood most of it but I just really wanted more to happen. Heroine. Strong. Resourceful. Passionate. Loyal. Determined. Not whingey. I loved Seraphina, she\u2019s my kind of heroine. Minor blips when boys are around but I can let her off in exchange for moisturising tips. Love Interest. My dislike for poor Lucian Kiggs is all my own fault. Because I\u2019m silly and I kept calling him Lucian Griggs as if he was some kind of cousin that Jonah just never talked about. And then I was like\u2026 no, Jo, it\u2019s Kiggs, Kiggs . So naturally I started calling him Lucian Giggs, like he was some kind of cousin that Ryan just never talked about. (Him being Ryan Giggs\u2019 cousin would make more sense because Mr Giggs (not Kiggs) is Welsh and everyone knows that\u2019s where 83% of the world\u2019s population of dragons dwell.) But his name aside, I wasn\u2019t sold with either him or Seraphina\u2019s attraction to him. I didn\u2019t think there would be a love story in this book so I was kind of put off by the fact that there was. I had gotten it into my mind that it was going to be all about Seraphina being brilliant on every page. I would have been quite happy for it to just have been left out or even better, developed more slowly so we had an idea why the two of them liked each other at all. I just didn\u2019t believe in it. I\u2019m sorry, I really tried, but I just couldn\u2019t. As a fun note: You should have seen the other love interests Flann and I were inflicting on poor Seraphina throughout our readalong. Orma Oh mate, I loved this guy. Although I know he\u2019d probably give me a cold look if I told him that or stab me in the side if I tried to hug him. But that\u2019s fine, because that\u2019s why I loved him. He was so hilarious and he came out with some absolutely stellar one liners (I highlighted them all but my favourite was \u201cI\u2019m attracting small children, shoo it away won\u2019t you?\u201d) and he\u2019s the epitome of emotionally unavailable man. And who doesn\u2019t love an emotionally unavailable man?! Bravo, Ms Hartman, for creating such a fantastic and interesting character. Now for your next trick: make him real . Theme Tune. My favourite part of this whole book was Seraphina\u2019s struggle with her identity and how she was supposed to fit into a society where everyone thought she was a monster. I know that most people reading this book won\u2019t know what it\u2019s like to be a half-dragon and the emotions involved in that , but I truly feel a lot of people reading it will be able to relate to Seraphina\u2019s battle to come to terms with herself and how to fit in when she was so different. Ms Hartman perfectly depicted these emotions in a raw and harrowing way that will undoubtedly have a lot of resonance with a lot of readers. So with the explanation out of the way, this song is for Seraphina. Rootless by Marina and the Diamonds. Sadness Scale. 7/10. As I mentioned in the Theme Tune section, Seraphina\u2019s emotions and trying to fit into either world were extremely well-written and extremely affective. Also, quick mention because I\u2019m tiptoeing around spoilers as I would a dragon\u2019s lair, I loved every conversation between Seraphina and Orma. They made me so happy and ache with sadness at the same time. Did I mention I liked Orma? Do I need to write Part 2 of my love for Orma? \u2026. No? Spoilsports. Recommended For. People who like epic fantasy books. People who appreciate brilliant world-building. People who like strong heroines. People who think that dragons are misunderstood. People who wonder whether Jonah Griggs has any cousins. People who love Orma. I received an advanced copy of this book from the publisher. You can read this review and lots of other exciting things on my blog here . ...more I can count on one hand the number of fantasy books I've enjoyed, but after reading Kat Kennedy's glowing review of Seraphina , I was intrigued by the promise of smart heroines, dragons, and jazz hands. Really, who can turn down jazz hands? With that in mind, I eagerly started this book. Then I got to mentions of saarantrai , houppelande, and quigutl . Remember, amateur fantasy reader here. I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm scared off by double letters and words that start with Q. Another thing that' I can count on one hand the number of fantasy books I've enjoyed, but after reading Kat Kennedy's glowing review of Seraphina , I was intrigued by the promise of smart heroines, dragons, and jazz hands. Really, who can turn down jazz hands? With that in mind, I eagerly started this book. Then I got to mentions of saarantrai , houppelande, and quigutl . Remember, amateur fantasy reader here. I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm scared off by double letters and words that start with Q. Another thing that's kept me away from fantasy: the world building. I get that it's a necessary evil part of the genre, but... a pain in the ass to read -- especially since I am not a skimmer and I re-read things I don't understand. Quigutl? Yeah, I had to go back for that, only to find out that it wouldn't be explained til 50 pages later. The story is a lot to take in at first because you're hit with the worlds of Goredd (human) and Tanamoot (dragon), and the half-human/half-dragon world of Seraphina. Seraphina's world is as fascinating as it is confusing because it exists in her mind, created by memories left by her deceased mother. It's populated by odd characters that Seraphina names Fruit Bat, Pelican Man, etc. I gave myself 100 pages to decide whether to keep reading this book or not. I'm so glad I stuck with it. Rachel Hartman takes what could easily be cliche characters and plot and makes them compelling and intelligent. She doesn't dumb it down for her readers or make it easy for her characters. Princess Glisselda, the fiancee of Prince Lucian, is also one of the most likable characters in the book. Prince Lucian is an actual knight in shining armor, but Seraphina is more often than not coming to his rescue. That brings us to Seraphina, a brilliant musician who struggles with the legacy her mother left her. I'd be pissed about metallic silver scales too. But who has time to dwell on scales when Lucian and Glisselda's uncle has been killed and all clues (namely, the lack of a head along with the body) point to a dragon as the culprit. This murder just before the anniversary of the peace treaty between humans and dragons could tip the balance towards war. There's discontent on all sides -- humans who aren't happy living with dragons, dragons who feel they've given up too much to humans, knights who fought during the wars and were banished following the peace treaty. Assassinations are plotted and identities are revealed as the nation of Goredd plans to welcome the leader of dragonkind. And this is just the beginning (I hope!) of a series. I don't mean to keep using the word \"intelligent\" but Rachel Hartman writes characters that actually use their brains. Deductive reasoning! It happens! Seraphina reminded me a lot of The Thief in that as good as it was, I know the sequel is going to be even better. Nevertheless, this book stands very capably on its own. It is as much political thriller as it is fantasy, which I love. I also loved the discussions of parentage and the legacies, both beneficial and detrimental, that parents leave their kids. I can't believe this was a debut novel! It was so assured and entertaining. I definitely look forward to reading more of Rachel Hartman's work. Noelle and I review this book on Young Adult Anonymous . ...more \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c7\u03b5\u03af\u03bf. \u03a0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b4\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03c6\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ac \u03a1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c6\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2; \u03a0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03c9\u03c7\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc 40 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ae\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2;. \u03a0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bf \u03c1\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03c0\u03af 16 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03ae \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5 \u038a\u03bc\u03bb\u03b1\u03bd; \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03b7 \u03a7\u03ac\u03c1\u03c4\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd. \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03af\u03b4\u03b1\u03c2, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd\u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03bf \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03ce \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9 \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c7\u03b5\u03af\u03bf. \u03a0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b4\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03c6\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ac \u03a1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c6\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2; \u03a0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03c9\u03c7\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc 40 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ae\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2;. \u03a0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bf \u03c1\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03c0\u03af 16 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03ae \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5 \u038a\u03bc\u03bb\u03b1\u03bd; \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03b7 \u03a7\u03ac\u03c1\u03c4\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd. \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03af\u03b4\u03b1\u03c2, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd\u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03bf \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03ce \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1, \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03b1\u03c1\u03ba\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5. \u039a\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03c1\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03b3\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c1\u03b3\u03cc\u03c2. \u03a0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ae\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b3\u03bb\u03b1\u03c6\u03c5\u03c1\u03ac, \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b6\u03c9\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2. \u039f\u03b9 \u03b3\u03ba\u03ac\u03b9\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2, \u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03cd\u03c4\u03b9, \u03c4\u03bf \u03c6\u03bb\u03ac\u03bf\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf, \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b8\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c6\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c6\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u03a7\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c8\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b9\u03c0\u03cc\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03cc \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf\u03cd \u03a3\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c7\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5. \u039d\u03bf\u03bc\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03af\u03b4\u03b1. \u00ab\u0391\u03bd \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae. \u0388\u03b3\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03c2, \u03b3\u03ad\u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1. \u0389\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b5\u03bd\u03ac \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b2\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b7\u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b7\u03c2, \u03b7 \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1\u03c7\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bc\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac\u03b4\u03c9\u03bd, \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c8\u03b9\u03b8\u03c5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03b5\u03c5\u03c7\u03ae \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03bc\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf \u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03bc\u03bf. \u0389\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b7 \u03c3\u03b9\u03c9\u03c0\u03ae, \u03b7 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae, \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03b7, \u03c5\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b2\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03c7\u03bf\u03c1\u03b4\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc. \u0395\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03b5\u03b3\u03ce \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03b2\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b1\u03bd \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03ac\u03b3\u03ba\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03ad\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03ac \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03b3\u03b3\u03c5\u03bb\u03cc, \u03b1\u03c0\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc, \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03bf \u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2!\u00bb \u03c3.578 \u00ab\u0395\u03af\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b9 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03bf\u03b9, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03bf\u03b9. \u03a3\u03ae\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03b9\u03ac\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03ae\u03c1\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9. \u0391\u03cd\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ad\u03b4\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03bf \u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c9, \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c6\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03b6\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03cd\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bf \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03c2.\u00bb \u03c3.580 ...more Buddy read with my dear friend, Roya ! You can read her wonderful review here . As a fan of High fantasy and dragons, I really enjoyed reading this book. Like most High fantasy books, the beginning is rather slow but it\u2019s well executed and didn\u2019t drag or bore me to death. The setting of this medieval world is well-developed and interesting. Both humans and dragons have their own histories and way of thinking. I love dragons and Hartman\u2019s version of dragons as a species capable of shifting into huma Buddy read with my dear friend, Roya ! You can read her wonderful review here . As a fan of High fantasy and dragons, I really enjoyed reading this book. Like most High fantasy books, the beginning is rather slow but it\u2019s well executed and didn\u2019t drag or bore me to death. The setting of this medieval world is well-developed and interesting. Both humans and dragons have their own histories and way of thinking. I love dragons and Hartman\u2019s version of dragons as a species capable of shifting into human form is quite well-thought and original. They are highly intelligent and are rather similar to \u201cVulcan\u201d species from \u201cStar Trek\u201d, especially when it comes to their way of thinking, their social interactions or their internal emotional conflicts. They love science, especially math, and follow logic. They find emotions destructive and have trouble understanding it. They believe in a concept called \u201cArd\u201d, an ethical and physical rightness imposed on the chaos of the world, which they use to organize their memories and thoughts or even lock away emotions. Once they used to hoard gold, but after their truce with humans, many of them have come to hoard books, which is their way of hoarding science. Adorable! Most of the story takes place in the human city of Goredd. Goredd is governed by monarchy, queens in particular, and people are quite religious. Hartman has actually developed a religion for her story, with quite a number of saints that are assigned to infants as patrons, some of which have very entertaining or creepy descriptions. I found it quite curious that humans in this book were so afraid of oddities or anything they might find abnormal and yet, they worshiped such bizarre saints. I can't help but wonder if there is something behind the whole thing. I found Seraphina's character peculiar and adorable. She is grumpy and reclusive, avoiding contact with others as much as possible and preferring her own isolated space. There is a reason for this and her true character, hidden under the insecurities, is revealed as the story develops. She is also geeky, in love with science, music, math and intellectual pursuit. She is constantly facing internal conflict, a conflict that sometimes takes a magical form or hits her in the form of visions. Hartman uses imagery to describe both complex emotions and music, and in my opinion, captures the essence of both successfully. As a female character, she was actually strong and smart, loyal and brave. She didn\u2019t annoy me and did not make me think of different ways of murdering her, which is really something. Many female characters manage to awaken my dark side and the desire to off them in painful ways. I think this book actually succeeds in portraying strong female characters, something that many authors try to achieve but fail spectacularly. The romance was perfect for me. I don\u2019t like instant love. Seraphina\u2019s relationship with her love interest develops gradually and in a meaningful way, with very good chemistry between them. The story did not focus on him at the beginning, and he was not described in details, making it obvious that he is indeed The One. The relationship develops as the characters are forced to interact, forced since Seraphina tries to socialize as little as possible. The two of them have much in common and actually spend time discovering each other, pulling out the layers one by one. HE is eccentric, open-minded, insightful, and just as geeky as Seraphina, with his own adorable peculiarities. Most of the other characters of the book were also well-developed and memorable, with depth, background and unique personalities of their own. They acted realistic and I wasn\u2019t rolling my eyes through most of the story, wondering why the stupid characters didn\u2019t see what was right in front of them. Orma, Seraphina\u2019s uncle, was specially my favorite and I found him very entertaining and adorable. He has his own inner conflicts and his transformation from a cold and insensitive uncle to a loving, caring and protective one was quite beautiful and lovely. The plot was quite engaging and well-thought. But I think this book is not merely about a mystery that surrounds a certain death and finding the murderer. It is actually about coming to terms with one\u2019s identity and embracing it. It is about facing an unfair world, cruelty of your own people, prejudice and racism. It\u2019s about standing up for yourself, finding a purpose for your life and trying to change the world around you for the better. It's about finding freedom and love. I am not saying this book is perfect. There were some changes of heart that felt a little rushed. There were also a few things that were left unexplained, probably to explore in the second book. This book does not end in a cliffhanger but the story is clearly unfinished. The ending is realistic and bittersweet, leaving the reader with hope for a better future. Overall, I really enjoyed this book. I think Seraphina is a fantastic, thought-provoking fantasy. I believe I actually gained more than entertainment by reading this book and that it managed to affect me in a positive way. \u201cWe were all monsters and bastards, and we were all beautiful.\u201d ...more For a dragon book (SO OVERDONE AMIRIGHT?) this was so lovely and charming. A real fairy tale written now. I loved the characters and the world building, the story was touching and the main character relatable and believable. The last half was a BIT more draggy, but still,really lovely, YA appropriate, reminded me of Graceling actually. Initially: And then: Alright, let's just get this out of the way: Seraphina is one of my favorite books I've read this year. Hands down, without a doubt, straight-up adored it. And I'd say it's my single most-pushed book this year; I've been pushing it on everyone . Obnoxiously . And I'm going to try to tell you why, and I'll do my best to avoid spoilers, but if you take nothing else from this review, understand that I want you to pick this up . Find out why HERE. An unsolicited Advanced Reader Copy was provided by the publisher for review. Quotes have been pulled from an ARC and may be subject to change. Seraphina is a half human, half dragon sixteen year old who lived in Goreddia. Humans must show their dragon counterparts that they\u2019re superior so they tend to dominate over their scaley friends. The war has ceased, brought on by the Queen with a treaty. The Ardmagar makes the decisions for these dragons, and is basically in charge. Seraphina has these gro An unsolicited Advanced Reader Copy was provided by the publisher for review. Quotes have been pulled from an ARC and may be subject to change. Seraphina is a half human, half dragon sixteen year old who lived in Goreddia. Humans must show their dragon counterparts that they\u2019re superior so they tend to dominate over their scaley friends. The war has ceased, brought on by the Queen with a treaty. The Ardmagar makes the decisions for these dragons, and is basically in charge. Seraphina has these grotesque visions that haunt her, which she aptly give nicknames to. (I had an affinity to Fruit Bat!) As for the wonderful secondary characters I liked Glisselda immensely. Kind and friendly she always defended Seraphina and was loyal to her as any sister. Lucian Kiggs, Captain of the guard was just as wonderful. Good through and through, he did the moral thing in a world where deception was the norm. His friendship with Phina was cute and sweet, and you can tell why she likes him so much. In a novel, where world building is done well, and there are so many characters to keep track of, a list of character\u2019s and who they are is extremely helpful. I took lots of time trying to memorize some characters names so I didn\u2019t have to check it. Do I think dragons can be the next trend? Well maybe. It\u2019s been trending for a long time and Seraphina\u2019s dragons are the ferocious and vicious ones nightmares are made of. And I for one can\u2019t wait until book two comes out so I can join her on her adventure. Beautifully written, Seraphina will whisk you away to a world where dragons are as ferocious as anyone thought they could be. ...more 4.5 rounded up - crazy well written. Seraphina deserves every YA award for which it was nominated. The core objective of the book is to teach young ladies to accept their minds and bodies and grow into natural self-confidence. Seraphina, the heroine of the story, undergoes a huge amount of character development in learning to love herself. She goes from: \"How dare the world be beautiful, when I was so horrifying?\" (accompanied by self-hate and self-harm) To: \"We were all monsters and bastards, and w 4.5 rounded up - crazy well written. Seraphina deserves every YA award for which it was nominated. The core objective of the book is to teach young ladies to accept their minds and bodies and grow into natural self-confidence. Seraphina, the heroine of the story, undergoes a huge amount of character development in learning to love herself. She goes from: \"How dare the world be beautiful, when I was so horrifying?\" (accompanied by self-hate and self-harm) To: \"We were all monsters and bastards, and we were all beautiful.\" Seraphina isn't the only one with character growth. Orma and the dragon king learn to cope with human emotions without shutting them off. Prince Lucian Kiggs comes to understand that dragons aren't inherently evil, just different (and accepts his own past in the process). Rachel Hartman gave all her characters, in the foreground and background, journeys with valuable lessons the reader can take away after finishing. I didn't give the audiobook my full attention 100% of the time so I might have missed some aspects of the story, unfortunately. I'm reading Shadow Scale next month. Hopefully it measures up to this one! ...more \"He released the last chord like a boulder off a trebuchet.\" It always feels this way when ending a book. There's a weight to the final words, then you let them go and they're gone. I don't think I've read a young adult book quite like Seraphina before. Rachel Hartman has built for us a world so rich and unique that it is almost dizzying to walk into. Her world is swathed in dark colours depicting a tale of menacing dragons who advocate peace, a stiff but admirably stalwart royal family of Queens \"He released the last chord like a boulder off a trebuchet.\" It always feels this way when ending a book. There's a weight to the final words, then you let them go and they're gone. I don't think I've read a young adult book quite like Seraphina before. Rachel Hartman has built for us a world so rich and unique that it is almost dizzying to walk into. Her world is swathed in dark colours depicting a tale of menacing dragons who advocate peace, a stiff but admirably stalwart royal family of Queens and princesses, mothers persecuted, abandoned children, a gang of grotesques, a population of almost-dragons living like scum on the outskirts of humanity, exiled knights, music, love, war, betrayal, identity, lies and truths, a people divided between acceptance and hostility towards the winged-beasts, and finally, those caught in between. The story sweeps you off your feet as a dragon might clamp its talons on your shoulders and whisk you away. It's a story of politics and race, a treaty created between dragons and humans. It has been 40 years since the war and both societies live in relative tolerance -- until a prince's ill-timed murder disturbs this veil of peace, and the animosity, simmering heatedly under the cloak of politeness and adherence to the new law, is given permission to seep out in full force. Seraphina, our protagonist, is a musical protege. She is also half dragon. She is removed, out of necessity, in all ways a young girl coming into her own cannot afford to be ; she layers her clothes to hide her scales as she layers over her heart to protect her loneliness. Seraphina is quite a bundle of maddening sadness but it never feels too heavy because she is also dignified, intelligent, and wants always to do the right thing. Seraphina's sense of alienation, of one who cannot fathom ever being loved, effectively evokes sympathy; a universal sentiment written with care and perception. It is a girl living in the shadows, looking out on all the things she's missing. \"Speak more, Seraphina,\" they said. \"Socialize more.\" But it was hard for her to open her heart to happiness because with that came the risk of disappointment. But she does, and the path there is poignantly paved. What took me by surprise, but not really considering the impressive writing, is how concrete many of the secondary characters turned out to be. They undergo development. Too many times are these characters treated like caricatures; jesters forfeited for the sake of dramatic enhancement of the lead. Hartman generously allows them their own struggles and triumphs and they are wonderful: a young, impressionable queen-to-be who surpasses expectations; a dragon in human form, guarded but beginning to accept what it is to love; and a bastard prince caught in a battle between history and identity. There's a lot about sacrifice here. There's a lot about many things here, but that in particular struck a chord. Sacrifice in the sense of knowing and understanding where we stand in life and how at times we must give up a part of ourselves for the greater good -- in whatever terms such situations may arise. Also courage; to pull ourselves from our heap of despair and become whole again. Staving off pain when doing something we do not want to but must. And loneliness. The grave acceptance that being alone just comes all too naturally; that you almost would rather be in solitude than let yourself be seen -- worst of all, be wanted. But as Seraphina learns, that is not a way to live and that in fact, when you look close enough, you'll realize you have more than you ever dared believe you did. Hartman's words are exquisite. Her imagination is expansive. Her world is detailed and fascinating. She has created laws, and religion, and a history. She has built architecture, painted landscapes, and constructed streets and alleyways. She has peopled her world with characters of different shades -- from rebels to teachers, musicians to politicians, royalty, knights, outcasts and lovers. Most bizarrely is Hartman's use of her semi-imagined language. I cannot say how many words I had to look up, discovering that the ones I thought were make-believe were in fact real, and ones I simply thought were foreign were fiction. It was both frustrating and marvelous. Her world is so prosperous of information that characters have entire conversations about philosophers we know nothing about. It puts us on the outside, leaving us in confusion over whether to feel left out or in awe. All I have to say is that it was about time Rachel Hartman came along. This was quite extraordinary. My paltry attempt at a review can never stress how much good this has to offer. It is passion, intrigue and adventure; eloquence, excitement, and emotion. It may have lacked action in the way that knowing this is a dragon book might lead you to believe, but it is only the first of the series. Hartman is still holding out. --- This review also appears in The Midnight Garden . An ARC was provided by the publisher. --- First read: May 2012 ...more Buddy Read 02/04/2015 with the Emma's Tea Party aka my favorite group ever. I'll bring the tequila, shhh! Read for the 2015 Reading Challenge: #7 A book with non-human characters 3.5 Seraphina is a good fantasy book. With a winning mix of fantasy , politics and romance that we have read a lot already. Its biggest mistake is following every single fantasy rule and adding very little extra details. But is definitely worth reading for any fantasy lover. Not remarkable, but enjoyable. \"Our survival d Buddy Read 02/04/2015 with the Emma's Tea Party aka my favorite group ever. I'll bring the tequila, shhh! Read for the 2015 Reading Challenge: #7 A book with non-human characters 3.5 Seraphina is a good fantasy book. With a winning mix of fantasy , politics and romance that we have read a lot already. Its biggest mistake is following every single fantasy rule and adding very little extra details. But is definitely worth reading for any fantasy lover. Not remarkable, but enjoyable. \"Our survival depends not on being superior but on being sufficiently interesting.\" Es muy raro encontrarte joyas de fantasia juvenil. Seraphina tenia todas las de ganar, desgraciadamente hubo muchos hilos flojos y sus puntos fuertes son tramas que hemos visto ya bastantes veces en mil fantas\u00edas distintas. Y aunque Seraphina sigue muy bien las \"reglas\" no se atreve a desviarse mucho y por ende, no sobresale del genero para nada, en mi opini\u00f3n. Ademas que tarda bastantito en arrancar, y lo mejor del libro no sucede hasta despu\u00e9s de la segunda mitad, lo cual puede ser frustrante para muchos. Los personajes son todos muy buenos, pero mi opini\u00f3n es la misma, est\u00e1n la cl\u00e1sica protagonista que es diferente y debe esconder su diferencia. El inter\u00e9s amoroso de la realeza que tiene un deber, pero empieza a enamorarse, pero sigue teniendo un deber. La amiga de la realeza medio mensa pero al final no tanto. La figura sabia. El antagonista malo-muy-malo. Y un mont\u00f3n de otros personajes que no conocemos bien por el simple hecho de agregar misterio. Y aunque todos son buenos personajes, ninguno llega a brillar demasiado porque todos siguen las \"reglas\" de los t\u00edpicos personajes de fantas\u00eda. Orma y Glisselda son mis favoritos. La trama es buena, pero predecible desde la mitad del libro. Ademas que al inicio parece que seguir\u00e1 una direcci\u00f3n y para la mitad parece que la autora cambia de opini\u00f3n y no se digna a cambiar cosas del inicio. El dialogo bueno pero nada especial. La historia de amor bien manejada pero cliche, y sale de -literalmente hablando- ninguna parte what? Ya me estoy dando a entender con lo que dije antes de \"no sobresale del genero para nada\" ? y eso que yo no leo TAAAAAANTO fantas\u00eda como mucha otra gente. A pesar de eso, hay descripciones muy buenas. Y la forma de escribir de la autora es muy linda y eso ayuda mucho a un fantasy. Y la visi\u00f3n que tiene la autora sobre los dragones y sus diferencias con los humanos es muy interesante. Desgraciadamente eso de \"somos dragones y tenemos la habilidad de transformarnos a forma humana y por eso ahora hay paz\" se me hace algo muy sencillo que elimina muchos posibles problemas interesantes a que fueran viles bestias-dragones y humanos conviviendo realmente. Recomendado si te gusta el genero. No esperes nada mind-blowing, porque no lo vas a encontrar. Pero es una lectura entretenida con ciertos detalles interesantes y una formula con elementos t\u00edpicos ganadores. ...more \"We were all monsters and bastards, and we were all beautiful.\" Seraphina Dombegh is an assistant to court musician, Viridius, and is desperately trying to keep a secret that could very well ruin her life. As she works in the court amongst a tenuous peace between humans and dragons, Prince Rufus is violently killed. Slowly, Seraphina is drawn into solving the murder and learning that something rotten is afoot. What an absolutely delightful reading experience! I thoroughly enjoyed myself while read \"We were all monsters and bastards, and we were all beautiful.\" Seraphina Dombegh is an assistant to court musician, Viridius, and is desperately trying to keep a secret that could very well ruin her life. As she works in the court amongst a tenuous peace between humans and dragons, Prince Rufus is violently killed. Slowly, Seraphina is drawn into solving the murder and learning that something rotten is afoot. What an absolutely delightful reading experience! I thoroughly enjoyed myself while reading this. And although there were some bumps that kept this from being a full Five Star read, this is a book that I think fantasy and YA fans will positively enjoy. The absolute best part of the book is the world building. Hartman pulls out all the stops in creating this psuedo-Medieval novel. I've complained numerous times about the flat, unimpressive, unconvincing world building of many a novel, where the author tossed up a few key words but didn't try to flesh out the world, like a college student would toss up a bedsheet onto a rod instead of buying proper curtains. Hartman isn't such an author. The Medieval setting was fresh, new, and inviting; I loved how she developed her own religion complete with a cast of Saints (who were used consistently!). And while I was nervous about the dragons posing as humans (how could such large beasts get into such a small package), somehow, Hartman made it work. And this leads to one of the next best parts: dragons vs humans. To compare the dragon way of thinking to the Star Trek Vulcans would be appropriate. Orma most definitely comes closest to personifying Commander Spock--logical, unemotional, but when something happens to the ones he loves, he goes out of his way to find a solution. (view spoiler) [You even see this sort of thing happening in Seraphina. Many times, she seems distant and unemotional...and then you learn she is part-dragon. Somehow, that works for me. (hide spoiler) ] Speaking of characters, the cast is filled to the brim with vivid characters. Seraphina is our lead, and while she has her aggravating moments, overall, I liked her. She was active in her own life, curious, gifted; she struggled with her ancestry, with her secret, and with her growing feelings to Kiggs. If there was one problem with her, it was how quickly she decided that she was in love with Kiggs. (Not to say, however, that Seraphina and Kiggs had no chemistry, but I am getting ahead of myself.) Orma was brilliant, as I touched on above; Kiggs was a joy to read. So many male main characters/love interests come across as domineering d-bags, but Kiggs was not that guy. He was abrupt and candid at times, but that is his character. He is allowed to be flawed (who wants to read about perfect characters all the time?). As for Kiggs and Seraphina, minus how quickly Seraphina decides she loves Kiggs, I actually liked them together. They spent time talking and getting to know each other--which is why, when Seraphina decides halfway through the book that she loves Kiggs, I was disappointed. Don't ruin a good couple with insta-love, please! Besides our main couple, there were plenty of other characters to love. Lars, Viridius, Abdo, and my personal favorite, Dame Orka. They were unique and memorable, gifted with their own talents and able to assist Seraphina where needed. And I can't tell you how good it was to see Seraphina in a world with people other than her Love Interest. I get tired of a world filled that seems to hold only a girl and the boy(s) she love(s). However, some of the other characters were a bit...wonky. Glisselda starts out the novel as a ditzy, young princess and suddenly becomes a competent, political-savvy figure by the end of the novel. This change was not well-documented, nor was it clear if Glisselda had been acting the role of the \"idiot\" in the beginning (perhaps she was, but what made her suddenly accept Seraphina into the role of confidante?). While I didn't much care for Glisselda either way in the beginning, I did like how she became a good, solid leader in the end and a friend to Seraphina (another thing I hate is how few female friends a female protagonist will have, as if they are competition or a distraction to our MC). Seraphina's dad and her stepmother/siblings were other characters that I was surprised to see so little of. Claude is spoken of quite frequently, but he appears maybe a total of twice in the novel. I know Seraphina doesn't have the greatest of relationships with him, but I found it slightly odd, as they did both work in the castle. As for the stepmother/stepsiblings, I was a bit surprised at this descriptor found in the glossary: Anne-Marie -- Phina's not-so-wicked stepmother Tessie, Jeanne, Paul, and Nedward -- the moderately wicked stepsibilings Anne-Marie, like Claude, barely appears in the novel, but at least, she exemplifies the description. The stepsiblings, however, are said to be \"moderately wicked\", but not once do they do anything \"moderately wicked\". They are actually really polite to their older sibling, in the one scene we see them. Is this glossary entry just supposed to be joking? Given the other entries, such as Prince Lucian's, I almost think this is the case: Prince Lucian Kiggs -- Princess Laurel's embarrassing bastard, fiance of Princess Glisselda, Captain of the Queen's Guard, possessor of too many descriptors And let me take the chance now to say: THANK YOU, RACHEL HARTMAN, FOR THE GLOSSARY!! I've read far too many novels lately with a bunch of new people, terms, locations, etc. and have been completely lost. As for the story, the novel opens very slowly. VERY SLOWLY. A lot of pages are spent building up this world and the surroundings before launching into the main plot. Also, the beginning is a bit rough. I wish I could be more specific, but all I can say is that the first 20 pages or so were a bit challenging to get through. After that point, the book seems to hit its stride, and the flow is a lot better. And once the plot does eventually kick into gear, it is very good. It is unique, our main character, Seraphina, actually acts upon her life (instead of having others make decisions for her and just \"float\" through the story), and the mystery did have me stumped (for a bit). And I liked how the story concludes: a nice ending, completing this book, but definitely room to continue the story. And this is definitely a series I will be following. Sure, there were missteps and I'm sure there are gonna be a lot of people who won't want to wade through the world-building at the beginning before the story kicks into gear, but I enjoyed myself. I liked the world, the characters, and the story and am a bit sad that I'm going to have to wait a year or so for book 2. Recommended for fans of fantasy and dragons and heroines that don't need a boy toy to do all their dirty work. UPDATE After careful consideration, I've decided to leave this series right here. Some initial reviews indicated story directions that aren't my thing, but also, I've been moving away from the Young Adult genre for months. I don't even know that Today Me would like this book - I've changed so much, read more books, etc. That said, my Old Self who read numerous different YA DID like this book; hence, I won't be removing this review or updating the review itself unless or until I reread the book. Dialogue/Sexual Situations/Violence: Very tame. Lucian is called a \"b*****d\" but in the familial sense. Other curses are invented slang or mild expletives (\"da**\", \"he**\"). One character's backstory includes his mother sleeping with a dragon. Lucian and Seraphina exchange a few kisses, but nothing more. The sexuality of a few characters is mentioned, but only briefly and not in graphic detail. The story opens with the murder of Prince Rufus, whose head was apparently bit off. A group of men beat up a saar. Seraphina's old teacher held her over a balcony and threatened to kill her. Otherwise, fairly mild. ...more Four and a half stars It has been ages since I've written a review, but I really owe this book one. Seraphina is an epic fantasy exactly how I like it. Some might find it slow, maybe even boring, but I revel in its kind of detailed world-building and character development. The story unfolds very slowly \u2013 but honestly, I couldn't care less. There are so many interesting details to find out about Seraphina's world, her past, her love for music, her relationships. The setting is amazing, too \u2013 an in Four and a half stars It has been ages since I've written a review, but I really owe this book one. Seraphina is an epic fantasy exactly how I like it. Some might find it slow, maybe even boring, but I revel in its kind of detailed world-building and character development. The story unfolds very slowly \u2013 but honestly, I couldn't care less. There are so many interesting details to find out about Seraphina's world, her past, her love for music, her relationships. The setting is amazing, too \u2013 an intricate portrait of a medieval city with cobblestone pavement, stone buildings and churches (the cover perfectly fits my mental image of it!). It creates such an unforgettable atmosphere and just comes alive, I almost felt as if walking through the streets alongside Seraphina. Add finely nuanced characters, shapeshifter dragons and a well thought through society balancing between mistrust and infatuation and you have exactly what I'm looking for in a fantasy book! I am deeply in love with the concept of Seraphina's \u201cgarden\u201d and its \u2013 often deliciously eccentric \u2013 inhabitants. It offers so much potential and I can't wait to continue exploring it. Also, a shout-out to Orma \u2013 dragon scholar and Seraphina's teacher \u2013 for just being generally awesome. A mixture of absent-minded professor and unlikely father figure, he provided for laughter even in tense situations. The only (small) drawback for me was the love story: Oh yes, their friendship convinced me, truly. I even understood Seraphina's growing feelings for him, how she started hoping their relationship would develop into something more. I would have wished for more of those bittersweet moments of not knowing, being unsure, stepping back for the sake of a friendship (I crave these sort of romances.), though. Unfortunately, in the end, everything just went a bit too fast for my tastes and that killed the chemistry that was undoubtedly there between those two. When I enjoy a book, I normally rush through it in a few hours, but thanks to my busy schedule, I was forced to savour this, reading it chapter for chapter. And that was probably the reading pace that fit this story perfectly. It may not be one of my favourite favourites (yet?) - I'll have to let it stew a little while longer before it becomes eligible for that list \u2013 but it can wear its \u201cbest of 2012\u201d badge until then. Looking forward to seeing how Seraphina's story continues. Recommended for fantasy fans (like me) who are not looking forward to the battle scenes (I hate them. They are mostly just boring and should \u2013 by all means \u2013 not exceed the length of a chapter \u2013 at least in my opinion.) If you agree with that, you might want to give this book a try. Oh, and one cover in poster-format, please? Thanks a lot to Random House and Netgalley for the review copy. ...more Now, for serious, how am I supposed to write a review for this book? My feelings are all over the plaaaace with this one. So I shall have to divide them according to the phases of the book. Starting with... First Quarter: OMG. What a cool world this is! The only thought on my mind right now: [image error] Dragons, who've had a war-ridden past with humans, but now have a treaty with them, and also can TURN into humans at their will. Tell me that doesn't sound bloody amazing. Also: A girl who is half d Now, for serious, how am I supposed to write a review for this book? My feelings are all over the plaaaace with this one. So I shall have to divide them according to the phases of the book. Starting with... First Quarter: OMG. What a cool world this is! The only thought on my mind right now: [image error] Dragons, who've had a war-ridden past with humans, but now have a treaty with them, and also can TURN into humans at their will. Tell me that doesn't sound bloody amazing. Also: A girl who is half dragon and half human and as big an abomination as one can get in this world. Um, yeah. MORE, PLEASE. Then, Second Quarter: Okay, now I'm getting all sorts of confused because there are SO MANY characters and some of them have two names--*head/desk* WHYYYY?--and I'm getting a bit disinterested because (a) I'm confused, like I said, and (b) not much is really happening. Third Quarterrrr: By this point I'm debating if I should finish this one since it's not making much sense, and the writing for some reason is turning me off, what with it's somewhat stolid structuring and diction. Also, can something VERY EXCITING HAPPEN? The premise of were-dragons is way too fucking fabulous to give up on the book, however, so I continue. Le Final Quarter: OMG EVERYTHING IS MAKING SENSE NOW!!!! Everything is also SO FREAKING COOL. All the twists! The emoooootion. The intrigue! Okay, it's final: I AM GOING TO BE READING THE SEQUEL. And will try to cut down on all the caps. So first I'll admit that the thoughts I apportioned according to the quarters is not entirely accurate, since I wasn't taking notes as I read this. Regardless, as you can tell in the end I really ended up liking this one. Yeah, some of the worldbuiding points are still a tad iffy for me, but that's mostly sinceI'm a very easily distracted reader. Because really, the worldbuilding in this book is insaneee. You see, after reading the Seven Realms trilogy by Cinda W. Chima, which absolutely rocked my world, I now judge every high fantasy book by comparing it to SR. And as of yet no book's broken that record, although really, the bar it set, at least for me, is pretty unattainably high. And one more thing: KIGGS!!!! *swoony face* Bittersweet endings, how you kill me each and every time. Yes, this review does suck, but this basically is the gist of what Seraphina did for me. A lot, that is. Do I recommend it? If you're fans of high fantasy, absobloodylutely. If not, you might want to read the first few chapters to see if it's your thing. ...more<---C>Rachel Hartman</---C>", "Title": "Seraphina"},
