{"Comments": "A story within a story that shows how love can define a life, how decency can happen even between men who are not equals, how anger and ego can be tempered by friendship,<---M> how loyalty can overcome striving</---M>, how the burden and gift of mortality can bring a man to his knees or lift his thoughts beyond himself . . . All that pebbled with scenes that come alive through a nostalgic nod at art, music, humor, sex, travel, domestic life , academic life, and sport makes this a big little book ! A beautifully written novel about aging, war, and making peace with yourself. What a wonderfully poetic book, with a huge soul. The narrative structure is not ideal, with the close third person telling us about a main character who himself is writing a book about his memories - but somehow it works. What is striking about this book is: - the main character, MacIver: rough, brave, strong, Scottish masculine ex-rugby player who was an over-achiever, got a PhD in history, and at the same time has a keen eye for art and a wonderful ear for music. How refreshingly different fr What a wonderfully poetic book, with a huge soul. The narrative structure is not ideal, with the close third person telling us about a main character who himself is writing a book about his memories - but somehow it works. What is striking about this book is: - the main character, MacIver: rough, brave, strong, Scottish masculine ex-rugby player who was an over-achiever, got a PhD in history, and at the same time has a keen eye for art and a wonderful ear for music.<---F> How refreshingly different from literary stereotypes</---F>. - the descriptions of music pieces and works of art. Clearly, the author has a deep passion for art and he has an uncanny ability to put into words the beauty of a musical composition or that of a painting. - the poetic mood of most passages especially in the vignettes from the past. A lot of this novel reads as \"an old guy reminiscing\", which potentially could be dreadfully boring, but the quality of the language and the cleverness of the main character's observations make it exciting and worthwhile. On the downside, you could argue that there is not much of a narrative arc, or a driving tension throughout, because most sections are slices of life from the past, almost separate short stories, but again, the content is never boring (except maybe brief parts of the war section, a little overdrawn in my opinion). As a reader, you want to listen to McIver, because you are pulled in by his charisma and by his extraordinary strength. And by his extraordinary life. p.s. I listened to the audiobook, and it was a true pleasure to hear the Scottish accent in the dialogues. The reader did a great job. ...more A Brilliant Portrayal of a Man in Reflection~Of a Man with a Purpose. I found this book in the little corner library (I could scarcely use the term more loosely) of an assisted living facility. I liked the cover. I read it and I now I have to return it but I don't want to--that means I'll have buy my own copy. About the only part of me that didn't like it was my ego. I'm also a writer and I am jealous of the author's accomplishment... There, I said it. <+++>Rules for Old Men Waiting</+++> is <---A>Peter</---A> Pouncey's A Brilliant Portrayal of a Man in Reflection~Of a Man with a Purpose. I found this book in the little corner library (I could scarcely use the term more loosely) of an assisted living facility. I liked the cover. I read it and I now I have to return it but I don't want to--that means I'll have buy my own copy. About the only part of me that didn't like it was my ego. I'm also a writer and I am jealous of the author's accomplishment... There, I said it. <+++>Rules for Old Men Waiting</+++> is Peter Pouncey's debut novel. However he took a long time writing it; says he had no sense of urgency in the process. I'm not going to give anything away, but there is a character in his book who is writing with much more urgency. Well, it's easy to imagine what old men may be waiting for, anyway. But, one can hardly read this story without sensing the autobiographical quality of it. So, one way or the other, writer of the book, writer within the book, it's all to the reader's benefit. So whether you have urgency in your life or you are one who just sits back, contented with a good book, this is a beautifully written story that will likely reach you and move you in it's portrayal of a very masculine, and very sensitive, human experience. ...more I love this writer. I like the way he writes about an old guy who at first seems to be waiting to die. I don't think it's a spoiler to say that he ends up living his life. I would have guessed that I would want to read a book about an old guy examining his life, a book about a young man who thinks about the world, a book about a marriage relationship, a book about facing oneself, a book about discovering the effect one has had on others. I would not think that I would want to read a book about pa I love this writer. I like the way he writes about an old guy who at first seems to be waiting to die. I don't think it's a spoiler to say that he ends up living his life. I would have guessed that I would want to read a book about an old guy examining his life, a book about a young man who thinks about the world, a book about a marriage relationship, a book about facing oneself, a book about discovering the effect one has had on others. I would not think that I would want to read a book about particular evils of WWI and WWII or even a book about rugby. Turns out I wanted to read it all. I would have given this book 5 stars if it were longer. I want more from this writer. Thanks to my sister Ruth for introducing me to him. ...more Apparently this is the one and only work of fiction that Peter Pouncey has ever written, and what an absolute gem it is. A must read for anyone who admires beautifully crafted, intelligent and souful writing. This may even make my top 10 list, but then again, there are so many great books out there in the world....! I read this \"Rules for Old Men\" on my Kindle for one of my book club selections and I thoroughly enjoyed the book. Although these was sadness reading this story, is was very well done. An old man, Robert MacIver, having lost his wife falls into a deep depression when thinking about his future life. He lives in a run down house in the countryside. The house needs much care taking. The front porch needs repairing and numerous daily tasks have to be done for him to successfully live in the house and I read this \"Rules for Old Men\" on my Kindle for one of my book club selections and I thoroughly enjoyed the book. Although these was sadness reading this story, is was very well done. An old man, Robert MacIver, having lost his wife falls into a deep depression when thinking about his future life. He lives in a run down house in the countryside. The house needs much care taking. The front porch needs repairing and numerous daily tasks have to be done for him to successfully live in the house and just survive. He falls into a pattern of poor eating, lack of cleanliness and never shopping or cooking. He needs to lay in fire wood for the winter, shop for food, interact with others, make repairs on the house and yet he finds himself unable to move forward without his wife by his side MacIver is a retired professor and a specialist in the First World War. As the story progresses, part of his regaining himself is re-telling his history, and that of others, focusing upon the conflict and horror of war. As he decides to move forward with his life, he establishes 10 rules for himself to live by. The journey he takes the reader on is one back and forth is time and place and is full of vivid memories. This story is wonderfully done and is a sad, fateful and yet a gentle story. This is a book I would recommend. ...more Intrigued by the title I ventured in. The first chapter, the setting of the rules, kept me reading. Change, sadness and a self-prescribed regime for productive survival...productive winding down. Given the title and the intro, I had expected, and hoped, that the prescription itself would play a large part in the story, perhaps following through a complex ending of life. As it turns out, the prescription serves as little more than a structure to keep the main character alive so that two stories ca Intrigued by the title I ventured in. The first chapter, the setting of the rules, kept me reading. Change, sadness and a self-prescribed regime for productive survival...productive winding down. Given the title and the intro, I had expected, and hoped, that the prescription itself would play a large part in the story, perhaps following through a complex ending of life. As it turns out, the prescription serves as little more than a structure to keep the main character alive so that two stories can unfold, his and that of the quick novel chooses to write in his remaining days. His ending is not complex. He will not be \"waiting\" a long time, and other than his changing diet and declining health, there is little offered to better understand the wider value of the rules themselves. So you have two stories, one a fairly simple, but interesting morality tale that takes place in the trenches of World War I, the main characters reflections on a life well led. The two stories are interwoven, so that you drop in on one and the other; lessons overlap, events in one spur thoughts for the other. In the end you have a touching story of a man, his loves, his losses and maybe most of all his gratitude. A good read. ...more I loved the start of this one; it reminded me of Stegner, one of my great favorites. Then the author introduced a story within the story, and I wasn't too sure I wanted to break away from the original story. I stuck with it, though, and am glad I did. Lovely, (mostly) quiet book about coming to terms with one's life at its end. A story within a story. A dying man writes the story that has been on his mind, and the story tells so much in so few words. A keeper. I keep thinking about this book, years after I read it. I think that merits another star, so 4 instead of 3. A beautifully written and haunting novel. A story within in a story. Robert MacIver is an elderly professor and writer. He is living remotely after his wife, Margaret, has died. Age is catching up with him physically and mentally. He has a hard time focusing, remembering, and eating properly. As the story unfolds we learn about the sorrow he and Margaret carried when their only child, David, is killed. David was a medic in Vietnam and he returns home only to die from a leg wound received in the A beautifully written and haunting novel. A story within in a story. Robert MacIver is an elderly professor and writer. He is living remotely after his wife, Margaret, has died. Age is catching up with him physically and mentally. He has a hard time focusing, remembering, and eating properly. As the story unfolds we learn about the sorrow he and Margaret carried when their only child, David, is killed. David was a medic in Vietnam and he returns home only to die from a leg wound received in the line of duty. Robert's Scottish father, Alastair, was a WWI. Robert served in WWII. David served in Vietnam. Robert writes a story about the war theater of WWI. Sergeant Reggie Braddis is a highly skilled killer and a bully. He has it out for Private Tim Callum, who is an artist, and draws pictures in his off duty time. Lt. Simon Dodds is a kind, strong leader. He recognizes the private side and talent of Tim and reprimands Braddis for picking on Tim. Braddis seeks his revenge against Dodds. Callum gets even with Braddis. Private Charles Alston is witness to the atrocities. This story within the story was my favorite part of the book. I enjoyed how the characters were introduced and the story unfolded. ...more This book has lived on my nighttable for a long time. I'm so glad I finally read it! I'd like to talk about the sheer technique of this book while praising its heart. Pouncey takes his old, old protagonist, telling it all in 3rd person, and immediately puts him under great distress by the death of his wife, then traps him in two types of life threatening danger -- the reader is bonded to this book immediately by the inevitability of tragedy. Then, as the hero faces an unpleasant death in a cold, cold house, he makes up his own rules for a graceful leave-taking. Pouncey immediate I'd like to talk about the sheer technique of this book while praising its heart. Pouncey takes his old, old protagonist, telling it all in 3rd person, and immediately puts him under great distress by the death of his wife, then traps him in two types of life threatening danger -- the reader is bonded to this book immediately by the inevitability of tragedy. Then, as the hero faces an unpleasant death in a cold, cold house, he makes up his own rules for a graceful leave-taking. Pouncey immediately is chiding the rest of us through his hero's example - do we just slide through our lives, or do we determine how we will run them? The technique is so good, and the choice of words and tension so excellent, that the reader will cede his own disbelief to the novelist. One of the hero's rules is to form and tell a story, so we get a book within a book. While the protagonist of the book, a Scot named McIver, writes down this fiction, Pouncey in writing McIver does not do the usual sleight of hand and tell it as a stand-alone story. No, McIver is seen as creating his characters, making them speak, and wondering how to push them into the next step. Finally, the old man spends each evening with music and his memories, so we get a second book within a book, this one marvelously recounting a well lived life with many discontinuities in time. The language for this is most powerful - it is musical and it is also egotistical like McIver. The life recounted certainly not a sentimental life - the hero knows that he is basically an angry man, even when he doesn't deserve to be, and his ability to commit inexcusable behavior makes him, after all, one of us. Are there mis-steps in the writing? Perhaps. After McIver completes writing his own fiction, he indulges in a `what happened to them after the story's end' that was weaker, and could be thought sentimental. Pouncey prepares us though, since McIver is a historian who did his work on the long term effects of war on men, after the shooting stopped. Similarly, McIver's last words in the book may have been spoken to show how polite McIver was - but they could be interpreted to be a plea for help that McIver did not need, or a renouncement of the orchestration he had set for his death. I personally don't think that McIver would regret that death, but then, why would he ask for help? Peter Pouncey is himself an old man perhaps waiting, a former dean of Columbia and a president emeritus of Amherst. This is evidently his first and only novel, so I fear that this is it. After years of preparation, and the creation of a McIver so alive to us, Pouncey may not have another story to tell. Let us hope he does and will. ...more This book follows an elderly military historian who holes up in his holiday home and pretty much waits to die. His wife and son are both dead, and being alone, he sets himself various rules which govern how he will spend his remaining days, in terms of cooking, doing a bit of writing each day, and so on, in an entirely believable old-military-blokeish short of way. Sombre in tone, the novel takes the form of a series of reminiscences - how he met his wife, his early career as a rugby player, but This book follows an elderly military historian who holes up in his holiday home and pretty much waits to die. His wife and son are both dead, and being alone, he sets himself various rules which govern how he will spend his remaining days, in terms of cooking, doing a bit of writing each day, and so on, in an entirely believable old-military-blokeish short of way. Sombre in tone, the novel takes the form of a series of reminiscences - how he met his wife, his early career as a rugby player, but mostly meditations on war - the First World War which accounted for his father, the Second, in which he was involved himself, and the Vietnam War which accounted for his son. There is also a novel-within-a-novel which he is writing about soldiers in the trenches in WWI, and this was arguably the best part of the book, enjoying the greatest character development and having a discernible beginning, middle and end. I liked the way the narrative moved from one section to another smoothly and quickly, leaving little time for boredom, but it was rather dry and cerebral in tone making it difficult to feel really involved with the characters. ...more The author clearly has strong talent and does create some moving images/events (the story of the protagonist's son's experience in Vietnam, elements of the WWI story the protagonist is writing throughout the novel) as well as his description of the protagonist's experience in WWII are also well written. However, the focus of the novel is suppose (I thought) to be an older man dealing with the death of his wife...but we never really get into his thoughts, we do not see his thoughts and how they e The author clearly has strong talent and does create some moving images/events (the story of the protagonist's son's experience in Vietnam, elements of the WWI story the protagonist is writing throughout the novel) as well as his description of the protagonist's experience in WWII are also well written. However, the focus of the novel is suppose (I thought) to be an older man dealing with the death of his wife...but we never really get into his thoughts, we do not see his thoughts and how they evolve. Also the book suffers from the \"do not tell, show!\" we are told how great the protagonists marriage is--but we do not really see their connection/strength of the relationship similarly we are told how their marriage is tested, but we do not see it (the dialogue in these parts was especially clunky and force) and as a result the reader does not feel much connection/emotion regarding the loss of his wife. The story about WWI, read more easily, however it seemed distracting, and it could have been an interesting device, however it really did not share themes/ideas with the main body of the novel. ...more I loved the title of this book, and wondered what it could be about, so decided to give it a try. It was a lovely, gentle, sad read. Robert MacIver is a retired history professor struggling to come to terms with the death of his beloved wife. Having also lost his only son in the Vietnam war his loss causes him to slide into a deep depression which totally engulfs him. He stops eating and taking proper care of himself until a sudden fall seems to jerk him back to reality and a decision to try to \"t I loved the title of this book, and wondered what it could be about, so decided to give it a try. It was a lovely, gentle, sad read. Robert MacIver is a retired history professor struggling to come to terms with the death of his beloved wife. Having also lost his only son in the Vietnam war his loss causes him to slide into a deep depression which totally engulfs him. He stops eating and taking proper care of himself until a sudden fall seems to jerk him back to reality and a decision to try to \"take back his life, until he could give it away on an acceptable basis\". He writes himself a set of rules, rules that will help to bring back a bit of structure and routine to his rudderless days. One of his rules is to work every morning, and the work he sets himself is the telling of a story - and to tell the story to its conclusion. The story he imagines leads him back into his memory of three wars, and the retelling becomes the essence of the book. Memories and imagination weave back and forth until the conclusion, which even though seems inevitable, is still quite startling. ...more A nice first novel by a former professor of the classics. Not quite the masterwork the back cover said, but still engaging. It was interesting to read and have the story unfold and to wonder how much of the main character's life and views are the author's, and how much he wishes was true. As they say, write what you know. The protagonist, called by his last name, MacIver, loses his lovely wife, he begins the process of preparing himself for his passing. He then makes some rules for his time alon A nice first novel by a former professor of the classics. Not quite the masterwork the back cover said, but still engaging. It was interesting to read and have the story unfold and to wonder how much of the main character's life and views are the author's, and how much he wishes was true. As they say, write what you know. The protagonist, called by his last name, MacIver, loses his lovely wife, he begins the process of preparing himself for his passing. He then makes some rules for his time alone. To keep the wood stove going in his home on the Cape unwanted items are burned. Last on the list -\"Books from rival scholars and other trash, before good books and my own.\" Too funny. He then recalls his life with his wife, the raising and then loss of his son (Vietnam causality, but not in Vietnam). There are some poignant moments. I think for men hitting middle age, or retirement this is a good book to cause one to reflect on their life, their loves, their career, they family, etc. ...more \"Margaret and he had watched the pond over the years at every hour in every season.\" With this line, we are allowed into the lives of the MacIvers, Robert and Margaret. 3 wars spin out through the storytelling. Robert's father took to the air in WWI because he didn't want to die in the mud, and caused Robert to make history his career choice, and WWI his specialty. WWII put Robert on a ship targeting a hilltop gun bunker through binoculars. And Vietnam put another MacIver in a helicopter, flying \"Margaret and he had watched the pond over the years at every hour in every season.\" With this line, we are allowed into the lives of the MacIvers, Robert and Margaret. 3 wars spin out through the storytelling. Robert's father took to the air in WWI because he didn't want to die in the mud, and caused Robert to make history his career choice, and WWI his specialty. WWII put Robert on a ship targeting a hilltop gun bunker through binoculars. And Vietnam put another MacIver in a helicopter, flying over the mud like his grandfather. Robert MacIver is closing his story, while writing a story, bringing it all to an end. Margaret Westleigh's art, Mahler, Beethoven, Mozart and a bottle of Lagavulin share the scenery in the background of the big Scot's tale of the WWI trenches as he writes. This book has extraordinary power and beauty. Life is short. But life, like this book, is also precious and fine. ...more When I was casting around for a new story to tell, my editor at Random House, Jane von Mehren, gave me a copy of Rules for Old Men Waiting. I'm so glad she did. In the twilight of his life, the protagonist, Robert McIver, writes a list, the most important item on it is to \"tell as story to its end.\" This sets up the story within the story, unfolding as Robert invents scenes from World War I which allow him to tell his sensibilities. Introspective, quiet, yet with one shocking scene. An unusual l When I was casting around for a new story to tell, my editor at Random House, Jane von Mehren, gave me a copy of Rules for Old Men Waiting. I'm so glad she did. In the twilight of his life, the protagonist, Robert McIver, writes a list, the most important item on it is to \"tell as story to its end.\" This sets up the story within the story, unfolding as Robert invents scenes from World War I which allow him to tell his sensibilities. Introspective, quiet, yet with one shocking scene. An unusual love story. This novel came to me at just the right time. As a result, elements from Rules for Old Men Waiting resulted in creating elements in Lisette's List, my work-in-progress, namely: three wars (though different wars); overcoming grief (though differently rendered); and a list (different again, of course). When a novel can spark the imagination and move a reader to tears, as Pouncey's novel has, it must be truly great. I'm going to read it again ...more We'd like to think a better-late-than-never literary debut hasn't garnered this much attention since Ants on the Melon , Virginia Hamilton Adair's first collection of poetry published at age 87. Pouncey, a classics professor at Columbia University and the retired President of Amherst College, began work on Rules in 1981; at a slim 210 pages, it's obvious he chose his words carefully. Reviewers generously praise Pouncey's controlled prose and ripened wisdom. Those who enjoy the book embrace it as We'd like to think a better-late-than-never literary debut hasn't garnered this much attention since Ants on the Melon , Virginia Hamilton Adair's first collection of poetry published at age 87. Pouncey, a classics professor at Columbia University and the retired President of Amherst College, began work on Rules in 1981; at a slim 210 pages, it's obvious he chose his words carefully. Reviewers generously praise Pouncey's controlled prose and ripened wisdom. Those who enjoy the book embrace it as a serious-minded antidote to the treacly works of Mitch Albom. The few detractors note that Pouncey falls into traps of many first time novelists: no matter how well it's written, it's still a story about a man wandering around an empty house with only memories to incite any drama. This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine . ...more This is a quiet, introspective book. The protagonist is an old man, a retired historian and former rugby star, who is writing his final book and waiting to die. He is dying alone and comes to terms with his death through his writing and through his \"rules\" for how to spend his time during the final days--cook real food, write every day, no scotch until the end of the day, etc. I found the voice of the narrator entirely believable as he reflected on his own less than perfect character and his bel This is a quiet, introspective book. The protagonist is an old man, a retired historian and former rugby star, who is writing his final book and waiting to die. He is dying alone and comes to terms with his death through his writing and through his \"rules\" for how to spend his time during the final days--cook real food, write every day, no scotch until the end of the day, etc. I found the voice of the narrator entirely believable as he reflected on his own less than perfect character and his beloved, now dead, wife and his son who died in Vietnam. War is an important part of this book, both in the ways that it touched the private life of the narrator and in the research done by him (and, of course, by the author as well). Perfect reading for gloomy winter days, though I ended up reading it during some lovely fall weather instead. ...more I really like this book. It has a lot of layers. It's about three different wars, yes. It is also about the \"war\" within oneself when things go wrong, and sometimes even when things go right. It's about the \"war\" within a marriage sometimes. I love the main character, Robert MacIver and love that he recouped from his great losses in his life and didn't let despair win. I love his devotion to his wife, the way they raised their son. I wish I had done that well as a parent! I think about how he ha I really like this book. It has a lot of layers. It's about three different wars, yes. It is also about the \"war\" within oneself when things go wrong, and sometimes even when things go right. It's about the \"war\" within a marriage sometimes. I love the main character, Robert MacIver and love that he recouped from his great losses in his life and didn't let despair win. I love his devotion to his wife, the way they raised their son. I wish I had done that well as a parent! I think about how he handled old age and his finally days. I think a lot about my late dad, the texture of his days. The story within a story was strong in and of itself. The story of good vs. evil, how much a kindness really meant and how it was repaid. This is a book that will stick with me for some time. I highly recommend it. A great book discussion book. ...more This is a novel about a man coming to terms with his own mortality, though he does not go gently to his end. Robert MacIver is a historian and former rugby star spending his final days alone in a Cape Cod house filled with memories. It is those memories\u2014of his wife, son and friends, good and bad experiences, the little joys and tragedies that make up life\u2014which sustain him and encourage him to devise a set of rules that are \u201c\u2026a plan to take back his life, until he could give it away on an accepta This is a novel about a man coming to terms with his own mortality, though he does not go gently to his end. Robert MacIver is a historian and former rugby star spending his final days alone in a Cape Cod house filled with memories. It is those memories\u2014of his wife, son and friends, good and bad experiences, the little joys and tragedies that make up life\u2014which sustain him and encourage him to devise a set of rules that are \u201c\u2026a plan to take back his life, until he could give it away on an acceptable basis.\u201d One of those rules requires him to work. This spurs him to write a story rooted in his experience with oral histories of men who served in World War 1. Conjuring up this story provides anticipation for the next day, and the one after that, and a goal of living until he finishes the tale. ...more The title alone is enough to depress you and Pouncey follows through with enough death in this 208 page book to make Stephen King proud. A true water boarding of depressing literary events. But then you have to remember that this is his first book and you need to be forgiving if he tends to over do it. To me it\u2019s two short stories ideas fused together to make one book. The WWI aspects were more engaging than the old man in an old house looking back on his life. The writing is strong most of the The title alone is enough to depress you and Pouncey follows through with enough death in this 208 page book to make Stephen King proud. A true water boarding of depressing literary events. But then you have to remember that this is his first book and you need to be forgiving if he tends to over do it. To me it\u2019s two short stories ideas fused together to make one book. The WWI aspects were more engaging than the old man in an old house looking back on his life. The writing is strong most of the time with bouts of over reaching his talent in spots. In the end, I felt the book was about responding to the futility of life with rage. But I\u2019m not sure this book will stick with me like it did for most people. I would be curious to read a second novel from Pouncey to see how he's changed as a writer. ...more This is a beautiful book, masterfully written, which I will want to revisit and discuss in the future. It is quiet but powerful and promises to remain with me for some time. A life remembered; a mate and companion fully appreciated and loved; a tragedy lived and eventually lived with; a conquering and ordering of illness and death, to be realized and managed on one's own terms, instead of their own; the creation of art; the survival of war: these are a few of the themes the author deals with in This is a beautiful book, masterfully written, which I will want to revisit and discuss in the future. It is quiet but powerful and promises to remain with me for some time. A life remembered; a mate and companion fully appreciated and loved; a tragedy lived and eventually lived with; a conquering and ordering of illness and death, to be realized and managed on one's own terms, instead of their own; the creation of art; the survival of war: these are a few of the themes the author deals with in this relatively slender, but succinct novel. I've seen the author compared to Norman Maclean, and find that to be an apt comparison. Pouncey's training in classical languages and literature shows through, illuminating his work with class and distinction. ...more Another book that has been sitting waiting on the shelf for years. I think this has the wrong title--it suggests a level of depression that the book largely manages to avoid, although it is very sad. The story of a Scottish historian who has lost his beloved wife and is alone in his Wellfleet cape house getting through (or not) the winter. The long, meditative passages are interesting and forced me to read at a slower pace. It was good to spend a couple of hundred pages with MacIver, the protago Another book that has been sitting waiting on the shelf for years. I think this has the wrong title--it suggests a level of depression that the book largely manages to avoid, although it is very sad. The story of a Scottish historian who has lost his beloved wife and is alone in his Wellfleet cape house getting through (or not) the winter. The long, meditative passages are interesting and forced me to read at a slower pace. It was good to spend a couple of hundred pages with MacIver, the protagonist, although I did feel that several characters in the book (including his wife) were a lot too good to be true. Saints, even. But okay, and the descriptions of the pond were lovely. ...more The two different narrative strands--Pouncey writing about MacIver, and MacIver writing about his own novel--were oddly variant. The secondary story line felt like a draft, and I couldn't remember or tell if I was reading something meant to be understood as draft, or if I was supposed to be reading a narrator less talented than the primary narrator (Pouncey). Plot moves along at a fairly rapid pace. All of the stuff about old people and loss felt simultaneously too sentimental and all too real. The two different narrative strands--Pouncey writing about MacIver, and MacIver writing about his own novel--were oddly variant. The secondary story line felt like a draft, and I couldn't remember or tell if I was reading something meant to be understood as draft, or if I was supposed to be reading a narrator less talented than the primary narrator (Pouncey). Plot moves along at a fairly rapid pace. All of the stuff about old people and loss felt simultaneously too sentimental and all too real. Had a similar feel to Petersen's Out Stealing Horses , but the Petersen is far and away superior. Readable in under 3 hours. ...more Read this for book group, made me long for last month's selection, To the Lighthouse, in which Virginia Woolf masterfully revealed the inner life of several characters. Today too many novelists try to weave in various characters stories and mostly fail. (Colm McCann succeeded in Let the Great World Spin.) I found myself skipping over the old man's stories, but I did like the main story of MacIver and Margaret, although I wanted to throttle the old man and found his burning furniture to stay warm Read this for book group, made me long for last month's selection, To the Lighthouse, in which Virginia Woolf masterfully revealed the inner life of several characters. Today too many novelists try to weave in various characters stories and mostly fail. (Colm McCann succeeded in Let the Great World Spin.) I found myself skipping over the old man's stories, but I did like the main story of MacIver and Margaret, although I wanted to throttle the old man and found his burning furniture to stay warm in a New England as implausible as the ending. ...more That both the protagonist, Robert Maciver, and the author were rugby players, as I was for many years, brought this book close to my heart. More important, the well conceived and beautifully written story of a man thinking back over his life while waiting for his approaching death made me even more aware of my own approaching mortality. NOTE: The author attended our book club meeting and, as authors usually do, brought the story to life with a feeling for the inner meaning(s) and motivation(s) fo That both the protagonist, Robert Maciver, and the author were rugby players, as I was for many years, brought this book close to my heart. More important, the well conceived and beautifully written story of a man thinking back over his life while waiting for his approaching death made me even more aware of my own approaching mortality. NOTE: The author attended our book club meeting and, as authors usually do, brought the story to life with a feeling for the inner meaning(s) and motivation(s) for why it is was written. ...more<---C>Peter R. Pouncey</---C>", "Title": "Rules for Old Men Waiting"},
