{"Comments": "You know I had to. It IS my favorite of all my books, after all.<---F> Also posted on STRANGEMORE</---F>.COM . This is basically the paranormal version of Misty of Chincatigue with (gasp!) romance! Like Hidalgo, on the beach instead of the desert with (gasp!) kissing! Between two riders! NOT between the horse and it's rider though. Well... sometimes between the horse and it's rider. Just a little. When this book started, it felt like a breath of fresh sea air, not rife with the smell of YA cliche. That was mainly because I thought this book was told from the alternating persp Also posted on STRANGEMORE.COM . This is basically the paranormal version of Misty of Chincatigue with (gasp!) romance! Like Hidalgo, on the beach instead of the desert with (gasp!) kissing! Between two riders! NOT between the horse and it's rider though. Well... sometimes between the horse and it's rider. Just a little. When this book started, it felt like a breath of fresh sea air, not rife with the smell of YA cliche. That was mainly because I thought this book was told from the alternating perspective of two boys ,<---M> Sean and Puck</---M>, which would have been a nice change for Steifvater. Maybe I was in the mood for a buddy story or a brother story, instead of the usual stereotypical romance. But it wasn't meant to be, you see, because Puck is a SHE and not a he. (Sorry, my inner Dr Suess came out for a second.) Not that this is a spoiler or anything, as it it mentioned fairly quickly. It was just something my mind was set against. I wanted Puck to be a boy. I'm tired of the \"here's a girl who does this and here's a boy who does that, hmmmm, I wonder when and how they'll meet and, gee, wouldn't it be weird if they fell in love, because, oh boy, we've never seen THAT happen before.\" The Rundown I understand now why the blurb is so impossibly vague. This is a difficult book to sum up. Two individuals, Sean and Puck, are preparing separately for the annual Scorpio Races (where the dangerous water horses of Thisby face off against each other with their riders and generally lots of bloodshed) until their lives eventually collide into each other. Sean is the typical Thisby teen boy who just so happens to compete every year in the races. Puck is a young girl having some family issues, in particular with her brother's desire to leave the family home and the island that they live on, and she thinks that competing in the Races will force her brother to stick around. But Puck decides to race her regular horse against the blood-thirsty water horses, which cause quite a stir and tons of problems. And that's just the beginning. The Writing and World-Building If there was one word to describe this book, it would definitely be \"atmospheric.\" The descriptions were gorgeous, but the location for the book is more than a little mind boggling. It seems to be a created fantasy island located in Ireland? I think. The term they use for the water horses is a Gaelic term but it takes place on a fictional island, I guess? The specifics are never really laid out about where or what or when this \"Thisby\" is. Many reviewers raised concerns about the lack of world-building in the Maggie's Wolves of Mercy Falls series. That being said, I feel like she almost went in the opposite direction with way too much world-building, including tiny details about minor characters, and it honestly wasn't very interesting to me. The characters all had their own quirks and backgrounds, but we were told too much and too often about them. More than was necessary. However, the world that she built around <+++>The Scorpio Races</+++> was much better than the world of Mercy Falls. The prose isn't quite as purple and the romance isn't nearly as cheddar. I'd say it's more like a magenta colby jack. It was just a very bland and tasteless magenta colby jack. The Pacing Pacing was my biggest problem with <+++>The Scorpio Races</+++>. It takes at least 100 pages or so before anything remotely interesting happens. Usually by then, I would have put a book down not knowing whether or not I would pick it back up, but because this is an upcoming release, I felt like I needed to keep going. In addition, because of the way the environments are described and the action builds slowly, a certain intrigue simmers in your mind and drives you forward regardless of the slow start. But I'm not entirely sure that the pay-off was worth the anticipation. Around page 380, the seemingly fabled races begin. Now that would have been a great place to start the book! Because up until that point almost NOTHING had happened. It was all setup. I'm sorry, but I do not need three hundred and eighty pages of setup . Even if it has pretty words and HORSES!!! Because by the time that part finally came around and I thought, \"Now this could be interesting,\" -- it was much too late. I was looooong past mentally checked out and had become disinvested and disinterested. This might come off rude, but this is the best way I know how too explain what it seems like has happened. You know when a little girl first discovers the way her skirt twirls when she spins? It's cute, right?! You're like, \"Oh, isn't that precious. She's twirling.\" But then it's two weeks later and she's STILL twirling like the world won't be able to turn itself if she stops, you're like \"Okay, we get it! You can twirl \" But you can't say that because then you're just being an asshole for ruining a little girl's \"twirl time.\" Well, Maggie Steifvater can twirl... and whirl... and swirl... and canter... and whinny. It just seems like the author discovered for the first time \"Wow, I can write pretty prose. Let's throw some more of that in there.\" Don't get me wrong: It is pretty. But holy well of words, do we need SO much of it? The Scorpio Races don't actually happen until the last 20 or 30 pages of the book, and even then, the actual Races only last about 12 pages, the rest is aftermath. For a book that's 410 pages long, that is not a good chunk of the content. Only about 3 percent of it, in fact. Maybe it should have been titled \"The 380 pages leading up to the Scorpio races\". I mean, sure, Hunger Games had some setup as well. But it would have been an entirely different book had the Games only lasted 12 pages. Who Should or Should Not Read It I wouldn't read this book again. And I wouldn't recommend it for a lot of people. But I think a lot of people will read it anyway. Here's why: 1) It is written by <---A>Maggie Stiefvater</---A>. 2) It is a paranormal written by Maggie Stiefvater. 3) It is a paranormal written by Maggie Stiefvater about HORSES! HORSES! HORSES! HORSES! HORSES! HORSES! 254) It is a standalone. (Finally!) If you hated Shiver, then you'll probably hate this one as well. If you loved Shiver, then you might love this one. Right around the time that the Black Beauty movie with Chris O'Donnell came out, I went through horse phase like many young girls probably do. But I got over it and I think I'm still over it, which might be why I didn't love this book. I also went through a dog phase, Old Yeller, Rin Tin Tin, Turner and Hooch, except that I never grew out of it and never will. I think Horse People will love this book. Keep in mind that there is a big difference between liking horses and being a Horse Person. I like horses. They are pretty and I like to imagine them with horns or wings or gills, but my thoughts don't revolve around them. I am a Dog Person. I've heard people say that horses are like really big dogs, but I think that those people are just Horse People trying to convince you to be a Horse Person. When really, it's like comparing Chihuahuas to Labradors. Some people say that small dogs and big dogs are the same. They aren't. Not even close. Usually, those who say that are Small Dog People trying to convince you to be a Small Dog Person. This isn't to say that any of them are better or worse than the other, they are just different . I am a Big Dog person, not a Horse Person, not a Small Dog Person. If this had been about magical sea-faring German Shepherds, I would have LOVED it.... probably. Other Thoughts The one thing I really like about what Maggie did with this book, though the same may not be said for Shiver, is that she didn't follow the pack with The Scorpio Races. After the vampire-werewolf craze hit and SMeyer announced on her website that she was writing a mermaid book, strangely, we saw a surge in the number of mermaid based books on the market, many of a questionable quality due to the fact that they were most likely rushed onto the shelves. Maggie didn't go with the surge but she didn't go against it either. She went along side it by creating her own mythology similar to many ocean based tales. It wouldn't be surprising if we see a rise in ocean based mythology books after The Scorpio Races. Although the pacing is slower and the story not quite as involving as Shiver, this book still seems to be a step in a better direction (albeit almost too far a step) for Maggie. The world-building is much more fully realized and detailed than that of Shiver and the storyline isn't purely romance based, which leads me to think that maybe, just maybe , authors do pay attention to reviewers complaints. Maybe she just decided to put more time into her world-building on her own, or maybe, hopefully, we are having some minuscule effect on how the book world evolves. And that makes me very VERY happy. The Verdict The Wolves of Mercy Falls was just a little too soft for me and the Scorpio Races was just a little too hard, so maybe by the time the next book comes around from Ms Stiefavter, that one will be juuuuust right for this little goldilocks. I'm giving it two stars because it was written well, just badly paced and plotted, in my opinion. The pretty words weren't enough to make up for the boredom. And unfortunately, I never connected to the characters or the romance between them. The thing that frustrates me the most about books is when feel like I didn't learn anything. I don't really mind not being entertained if I take something away from it that I had never thought about before. But I at least want one or the other. If you aren't going to entertain me, then teach me something. If you aren't going to teach me something, then by George Washington, at least ENTERTAIN me!! I'm very sorry to say that this book did neither. But that isn't to say that you will feel the same. Personally, I didn't love it. I don't think I even liked it, but it wasn't terribly written; it wasn't too terribly involving either. Meh. That's my word for this book. Or rather more like - MEEEEEEEEEEEEEEAAAAAAAH. Yeah, I just whinnied. Whatcha gonna do about it, huh? ...more This is a re-read! I CANNOT EVEN POSSIBLY REMEMBER HOW TO WORD RIGHT NOW PEOPLE. This book means so very much to me . You know those books that are just yours for some reason? This one = mine. It started me on YA. I read it after The Hunger Games and there was noooo going back afterwards. YA OBSESSION HERE WE COME. Not to mention my deep eternally wildly fangirling permanent adoration of all things Stiefvater. She is my most favourite author of the universe. Why? THIS IS WHY. Flawless books of utt This is a re-read! I CANNOT EVEN POSSIBLY REMEMBER HOW TO WORD RIGHT NOW PEOPLE. This book means so very much to me . You know those books that are just yours for some reason? This one = mine. It started me on YA. I read it after The Hunger Games and there was noooo going back afterwards. YA OBSESSION HERE WE COME. Not to mention my deep eternally wildly fangirling permanent adoration of all things Stiefvater. She is my most favourite author of the universe. Why? THIS IS WHY. Flawless books of utter writing perfection and characters that steal your heart. omg. I honestly...I'm just a mess of feelings . Re-reading this was like coming home to old friends. It's been 4 years since I read it. I FORGOT SO MUCH. I had like 9 anxieties reading it even though I'd already read it . I fell hopelessly back in love with Sean Kendrick. It's the quietness. I LOVE QUIETNESS. Sean says 1 word where everyone says 6. Me toooooo. Or else I say 0 words where everyone says 6 and wait until they're definitely listening to talk. His non-talking-ness just resonated wtih me. aGAIN. And Puck's vinegar and sugar temperament I just love endlessly. ALSO FINN ; the precious. He is probably one of the bestly written characters with OCD I've ever read ...especially in a fantasy!! (I think Maggie Stiefvater has OCD, right? So you can tell this is just crafted so beautifully and thoughtfully.) (I just wish I knew how old he was, dangit. I just KEEP WONDERING. I'm going to say 13 maybe?) ALSO I THINK I CRIED. Because beautiful words and just the way Thisby always catches my heart so I KINDA CAN'T BREATHE BECAUSE I LOVE IT ALL SO MUCH. I need more stars to give this book. MORE. STARS. (Also there's a whole chapter set in a bakery, FYI.) Needless to say: this is one of my all time favourite books of the universe. I just....I JUST CAN'T SUM IT UP OKAY?!? My heart fractured so. many. times. and the last chapter actually...I just...ajfdklasfdjakldj. If you haven't ever read a Stiefvater book: START HERE. I just want to HUG IT and keep it and love it forever. OKAY I'LL STOP GUSHING BUT OMG THIS BOOK MEANS THE WORLD TO ME. ( Note: the audiobook is freaking fantastic by the way. BEST choice for the re-read. The actors are impeccable and Sean's voice = <3333 PLUS it has music on their by Maggie Stiefvater!! And this EPIC author's note about the behind-the-scenes of her building Thisby and AFJDADSKALD I LOVED THE AUDIO.) ***** ORIGINAL REVIEW DONE IN 2012 ***** Breathtaking. I\u2019ve never read a book quite like this one\u2026 In what way? Oh, so many ways\u2026 The prose, the style, the magical weaving of words: Utterly beautiful. It\u2019s written in present tense (a new craze, so I\u2019ve noticed). But nothing can match this author\u2019s skill in piecing together words and sentences and chapters and coming out with such a vivid picture. You could jump right in. After a while, there\u2019s no book in your hands. You\u2019re on the bare, windy island of Thisby. There\u2019s no clich\u00e9 similes, no stilted dialogue, no dragging description. It\u2019s all fresh and alive and bursting from the pages in its vigour. I felt in awe as I read this book, not just because of the story, but because it was written so well. The book isn\u2019t as fast-paced as you\u2019d imagine, but it has a strong pull all the same. The story isn\u2019t really about the Scorpio Races, I don\u2019t think. It\u2019s about Puck Connelly and Sean Kendrick and what they want most. And it\u2019s about how you don\u2019t always get it the way you thought you would. There are horses. Of course there are horses. But you don\u2019t have to be horse-crazy to devour this book. It's not stuffed with tricky and detailed horse-terminology. It's about Water Horses, the mysterious, deadly, carnivorous, capaill uisce. It's about island ponies. There\u2019s blood. Danger. Excitement. Laughter. Salt and sand between the teeth. Racing. Death. Fire. Legend. Custom. And Fear. And the characters\u2026 The author wove characters out of salt and air and wild freedom and somehow tacked them to the page for us to read about. We see everything through Sean and Puck\u2019s eyes, their narratives alternating between chapters. It\u2019s in first-person. I really, really like first-person, (and I\u2019ll add that I really like present tense, because, after this book, I do). But the other characters are just as crisp. Finn and Gabe\u2014Puck\u2019s brothers. Mr. Malvern and his son, Mutt. George Holly, the American buyer. There\u2019s no beginning to describing how well these characters are penned. In fact, there\u2019s no use describing how well any of this book is penned. It needs to be read. When I started the book I didn\u2019t realize it was by two people, so that confused me a little. But the names are printed clearly at the top. If you read it carefully. Unlike me. I found this book here, What-to-Read-When-You\u2019ve-Finished-The-Hunger-Games. I loved the world the author spun to us. I think she did it flawlessly. To put it plainly: This book is one of the Best. ...more 3.5/5 stars! I really liked The Scorpio Races, and I'm glad I listened to it on audiobook. Since there were two voice actors it was very easy to separate Puck and Sean, which was lucky since I've heard that some readers found it very difficult to distinguish between them when reading the book. The narrators also had very different ways of speaking as the characters, which made it impossible to mix the two up while listening. The writing was beautiful. There is such a rich atmosphere, and the descr 3.5/5 stars! I really liked The Scorpio Races, and I'm glad I listened to it on audiobook. Since there were two voice actors it was very easy to separate Puck and Sean, which was lucky since I've heard that some readers found it very difficult to distinguish between them when reading the book. The narrators also had very different ways of speaking as the characters, which made it impossible to mix the two up while listening. The writing was beautiful. There is such a rich atmosphere, and the descriptions left vivid images of the setting in my mind. I felt like I was there on Thisby, experiencing the world alongside Puck and Sean. Whilst the setting was strong on Thisby, I didn't get a strong sense of where Thisby was located on the map. I'm assuming it's a fictional island, but there was a reference to the States, so there is some blend with our present world. My main concern was the slower pace, though I think my expectations hindered my full enjoyment of the story. I went into this expecting a lot of action, but instead found my thoughts wandering a lot, but when my attention returned I didn't feel like I missed much. I was also hoping for a little more explanation about the history of the Scorpio Races and how the tradition came to be. With a slower pace, there is plenty of room to explore the origins of Thisby's traditions. ...more They came in with the tide. The moon illuminated long lines of froth as the waves gathered and gathered and gathered offshore, and when they finally broke on the sand, the capaill uisce tumbled onto the shore with them. The horses pulled their heads up with effort, trying to break free from the salt water. I had to restrain the squealing, fangirly Maja and shove her in the closet so that the adult, critical Maja can sit and write this review. Believe me, it\u2019s better this way. With The Scorpio Rac They came in with the tide. The moon illuminated long lines of froth as the waves gathered and gathered and gathered offshore, and when they finally broke on the sand, the capaill uisce tumbled onto the shore with them. The horses pulled their heads up with effort, trying to break free from the salt water. I had to restrain the squealing, fangirly Maja and shove her in the closet so that the adult, critical Maja can sit and write this review. Believe me, it\u2019s better this way. With The Scorpio Races, Maggie Stiefvater has finally earned my complete trust. I promise never to doubt her again. I\u2019ve read four of her books so far and I gave all four of them five stars. If there was ever an author who deserved my wholehearted support, it\u2019s her. She is an artist above all else, and if that alone isn\u2019t enough, here\u2019s another reason for my respect: Other writers might have different priorities, but for me, the chief goal of my novels is not plot or premise or pacing, but to evoke a certain feeling. I will sacrifice most anything in order to change someone's mood in a certain way. I can't do that without careful navigation of metaphor and character development. (From Ms. Stiefvater\u2019s blog post ) But I\u2019ll limit my praise to The Scorpio Races for now: This time, Stiefvater flirted a little more seriously with the fantasy genre and created an amazingly gripping story. People on the fictional island Thisby live and breathe for one thing and one thing alone: wild and bloodthirsty water horses, the capaill uisce . They are either directly involved in the races or they take care of tourists from the mainland. Even though the Scorpio Races are held only once a year, the heartbreak and the loss they inevitably bring are almost too big for one small island. People die in the races. They die because they are too slow, too vulnerable or too ready to trust the monsters they are riding on. The capaill uisce may be stunningly beautiful, but all you have to do is turn your back on them for one short second, and their teeth will already be deep inside your flesh. It takes everything in me not to whimper. The creature is black as peat at midnight, and its lips are pulled back into a fearsome grin. The ears are long and wickedly pointed toward each other, less like a horse and more like a demon. They remind me of shark egg pouches. The nostrils are long and thin to keep the sea out. Eyes black and slick: a fish\u2019s eyes. It still stinks like the ocean. Like low tide and things caught on rock. It\u2019s barely a horse. It\u2019s hungry. Kate \u201cPuck\u201d Connoly and her two brothers lost their parents when a bloodthirsty capall uisce attacked them on the sea. Ever since, the three of them survive by fixing things for other people, making teapots, helping in the local store and doing anything at all to put some butter and flour in their mostly empty pantry. But when the oldest brother, Gabe, the only one with a steady job, decides to leave the island, and Benjamin Malvern threatens to take their house away, Puck sees no other choice but to join the dangerous race in order to save her house, and maybe even prevent her brother from leaving. Sean Kendrick lost his mother to the mainland and his father in the race. Enormous talent and love for the capaill uisce made it possible for him to survive on the island, working for Benjamin Malvern and his obnoxious son Mutt. Sean has won the races four out of six times. He has everyone\u2019s respect and a decent amount of money saved. The only thing stopping him from leaving the Malverns is Corr, the capall uisce that is Sean\u2019s only family. This year more than ever Sean has to win the races because if he wins, Benjamin Malvern will finally sell him Corr, thus setting them both free. Make no mistake: even though this story is told from two alternating POVs and it seemingly focuses on Sean and Puck, it\u2019s really a story about the water horses. They are what matters, Sean and Puck are just tour guides. If you\u2019re looking for romance, you could end up disappointed. It is present, but the emphasis is on other things this time. The writing is atmospheric and it feels like a thick mist, albeit one you're in no hurry to get out of. The island itself is a character: people, mentality and everyday struggles they face. The rich American buyer, George Holly, is there to remind us exactly how different the island people are. Please follow the link above to find out more about Stiefvater's writing priorities. She is one amazing lady and she just keeps proving her worth over and over again with every new word she writes. ...more \u25ba I reckon the reasons for which The Scorpio Races weaved itself throughout my beloved favorites could cause an opposite reaction to other readers . Do I care, though? No, because every slow-paced page, every heartfelt and beautiful sentence, every haunting and atmospheric landscape, every inch of Sean's bloody-stained jacket and killer horse reminds me that if nothing else, The Scorpio Races has a soul , and I'm consumed by it . \"I am here on firm ground, but part of me is already down on the beac \u25ba I reckon the reasons for which The Scorpio Races weaved itself throughout my beloved favorites could cause an opposite reaction to other readers . Do I care, though? No, because every slow-paced page, every heartfelt and beautiful sentence, every haunting and atmospheric landscape, every inch of Sean's bloody-stained jacket and killer horse reminds me that if nothing else, The Scorpio Races has a soul , and I'm consumed by it . \"I am here on firm ground, but part of me is already down on the beach, and my own blood is singing I'm so, so alive \" Sigh . I've been trying to put my thoughts into words for hours now, but it seems that The Scorpio Races joined the very exclusive club of the novels which mute my abilities to express myself. Puck and Sean's story is burned into my brain, though, twisting my perception of the reality around me, Thisby's landscapes forever ingrained in me. That's why I cannot, I will not leave this space blank and no matter how impossible it seems at this time, I'll try to do this wonderful book justice. Sorry in advance if I don't succeed. \"Outside, the wind is a live, starving thing. The sky over Skarmouth is a dull brown, lit by the streetlights, but everywhere else is inky.\" \u25a0 If you're - even a little - accustomed to Maggie Stiefvater 's books, it shouldn't come as a surprise that the writing is nothing short of spectacular : compelling and beautiful, warming your heart a second and breaking it the next. How could I complain about the slow-pacing if I thought it was perfect for the story? I'll tell you, I can't. Is it subjective? Sure it is, and I understand the readers who were bored out of their minds. Yet I wasn't. Never at any moment. \"Why aren't you going?\" The question infuriates me. I demand, \"Why is it that going away is the standard? Does anyone ask you why you stay, Sean Kendrick?\" \"They do.\" \"And why do you?\" \"The sky and the sand and the sea and Corr.\" \u25a0 I genuinely think that your ability to enjoy - to love - the plot depends on your expectations. Does The Scorpio Races revolve around the sea killer horses and the race taking place every year on Thisby's beach? Sure, but if you think that's all it is about, you will be disappointed . Many readers pointed it, and they're right : the race doesn't start until the very end, and is only an excuse to deal with the real issues in my opinion. What issues? The raw and frightening feelings one can experience when not sure if he - she - belongs somewhere . Through Sean, Puck, Gabe, Finn's eyes, we witness different ways to answer the difficult question of who they really are and what they need to do to find happiness. Is it staying, whatever it takes? Is it leaving? Is compromising themselves okay to reach their goals? As much as I personally find that the \"coming-of-age\" label is often misleading, in The Scorpio Races it rises to a whole new level. I couldn't be indifferent to their struggles, because as strange as it might be (given the fantasy elements) they felt real and heartbreaking and oh so moving . Beware of the harshness, though : many parts are - really - difficult to handle, especially because it contains cruelty toward animals . \u25a0 As usual Maggie Stiefvater nailed her characterization . If I sure didn't agree with every decision they took, none of her characters felt wasted and all of them provoked contradictory feelings in me. Honestly, they're just so freaking amazing : well rounded-up, fleshed-out, and a little heartbreaking . Sean, in particular, made it impossible for me to not love him almost instantly : his wildness, his loyalty to Corr, his sea horse, his intensity - that boy didn't need to talk for me to be lost forever . \"All I know is that Sean Kendrick rode that bay mare and waited until he was nearly over the cliff edge before saving himself, and that the dead speak more than he does.\" \u25ba The Scorpio Races changed me, somehow, even if I can't pinpoint in what way so far, and this story will linger for a very long time in my heart. Now, tell me, what better compliment could I give it? None . For more of my reviews, please visit: ...more Killer water horses + Maggie Stiefvater. What could go wrong? As it turns out, quite a lot. I feel just terrible writing this, and if you want to know just how much, it actually took me 4 months to make myself finish the book--partly because I wasn't engaged in the story, but also because I could sense that this wasn't going to be good reading experience. After the bruising my heart took with Forever , I really didn't want to write a second negative review for this author. But I'm afraid my disapp Killer water horses + Maggie Stiefvater. What could go wrong? As it turns out, quite a lot. I feel just terrible writing this, and if you want to know just how much, it actually took me 4 months to make myself finish the book--partly because I wasn't engaged in the story, but also because I could sense that this wasn't going to be good reading experience. After the bruising my heart took with Forever , I really didn't want to write a second negative review for this author. But I'm afraid my disappointment continues. The story centers around violent, flesh-eating water horses called capall uisce who are used in a race on the beach on the fictional island of Thisby every November. From clues dropped throughout the book, it seems that the events take place sometime during the 20th century, though not in present day, and the choice to be vague about the location and time work well for the backdrop of the story, particularly in setting up the hardscrabble life, antiquated attitudes, and the pressing need for money. <---C>Puck Connolly</---C> is hoping to win enough money to keep her parents' house. Sean Kendrick wants to win his fifth race so he can buy the horse he's come to love. The entire island is focused on the race, both out of fear of the unpredictable water horses and out of desire for the material gains it may bring. I love the concept of this story, and some of the writing is very evocative. Unfortunately, the framework and plotting feel very loose to me, as characters wander in and out of scene to have meaningful conversations with one another, to posture and bluff, and to strain for glimpses of people or horses throughout much of the story, all without a whole lot of substantial action to back them up. It takes a loooong time to set up Puck's entering the race with an ordinary mare, and a looooong time for the two main characters to meet. While I'm not a fan of characters who swoon all over each other as soon as they meet, I'm also not a fan of reading hundreds of pages in which not very much happens at all. Well, there are a number of violent deaths of both human and horse randomly inserted into the story, but few of them were particularly affecting to me, as there was so little time setting them up or dealing with the aftermath that none of them felt particularly real. Aside from lack of action, however, I also had a number of issues with the writing. I think too many authors use alternating perspectives these days, and it becomes a problem when the second POV adds little to the narrative and when the two voices sound so very similar. I had to flip back several times to figure out who was actually speaking, since they're both mucking around with horses and entering races and butting up against one obstacle or another. Add to this an unfortunate tendency to repeatedly use both first and last name when referring to a character we've known forever (as late as on the second to last page), chapters that are often too short, chapters that too often end on heavily meaningful statements, an incredibly annoying insertion of a name that sticks out like a sore thumb, and it all becomes a pretty frustrating reading experience. My biggest issue, though, is that so much of this just did not resonate emotionally with me. There are plenty of justifications on paper for why Puck stubbornly defies tradition and why there is sabotage and so on and so forth, but...I just didn't believe in it all enough to care. And being that I was willing to believe in water horses that kill people for no reason whatsoever, that's really saying something. All in all, there wasn't enough here to keep my interest, though I know that many of my fellow Stiefvater fans have enjoyed it. Shiver is still one of my favorite books of all time, but I've yet to read another book by this author that comes close to living up to it. Will I keep looking for a Maggie book that thrills me and moves me to the same degree? Sure I will. But with 380 pages of build-up, 12 pages of the actual race race, and 12 pages of wrap-up, The Scorpio Races certainly isn't it. **Coming back later to edit this review and to insert more specific examples and quotes, but I wanted to get my thoughts down before I let the review drag out for as long as my reading experience did! ...more Buddy reading this with my queen, Em (rip) my girl, Empress but they both have no chill so I'm going ahead and starting. :) Maggie Stiefvater has built a world that I want to live in forever. The Scorpio Races is a slightly mystical, slightly historic, all-around awesome tale narrated by our two main characters, Sean Kendrick and \u201cPuck\u201d Kate Connolly. Every November the Scorpio Races take place which is a race where riders must hold their water horses away from the siren waters long eno Buddy reading this with my queen, Em (rip) my girl, Empress but they both have no chill so I'm going ahead and starting. :) Maggie Stiefvater has built a world that I want to live in forever. The Scorpio Races is a slightly mystical, slightly historic, all-around awesome tale narrated by our two main characters, Sean Kendrick and \u201cPuck\u201d Kate Connolly. Every November the Scorpio Races take place which is a race where riders must hold their water horses away from the siren waters long enough to cross the finish line. Sounds simple, but it\u2019s not. Many die and there is only one winter. Sean Kendrick, (who is literally my everything) is a four-time winning champion at nineteen-years old. Sean is a mysterious, solemn young man who is known, but no one knows. Puck Connolly, on the other hand, finds herself in a situation where she has to ride in the dangerous races. So much is riding on both of their shoulders as the preparation for the races begins. \u201cNot a jockey?\u201d Holly says to me as I walk Miracle back into the yard. \u201cJust a horse lover,\u201d I reply. Never have I read a book so built and raw and real. Maggie has an incredible talent when it comes to writing. The world of Thisby that she slowly crafted is not just words on a paper but images and ideas and tastes and smells. The characters, like everything else about the book, are not stereotypical, they are not obvious or obnoxious or common. They are hand-crafted and so so so real. Also, Sean Kendrick is everything. The thing about Maggie\u2019s books are that they are slow. They are slow like a burning flame that melts away the unknown to reveal the plot, the story, the characters, the romance, the friendships, the conflict, and the conclusion. This book has burnt a special place in my heart. Also, Finn. Finn Connolly is so damn precious. Someone please give him lots of machines and gears and all the November Cakes in the world. \u201cThere are moments that you'll remember for the rest of your life and there are moments that you think you'll remember for the rest of your life, and it's not often they turn out to be the same moment.\u201d 5 stars!! ...more \u201cVices were only vices when looked at through the frame of society.\u201d Another remarkable story delivered by Maggie Stiefvater, there is a surprise! I have a strange relationship with Maggie's characters. I don't just love Ronan Lynch. I love everything that comes with him. I love Chainsaw like it's my pet. I'm protective of his BMW like it's my adopted child. Hell, i even love his boyfriend like i'm his mother. Same goes here: I don't just like Kate and Sean, it's just everything! I'm not sure i \u201cVices were only vices when looked at through the frame of society.\u201d Another remarkable story delivered by Maggie Stiefvater, there is a surprise! I have a strange relationship with Maggie's characters. I don't just love Ronan Lynch. I love everything that comes with him. I love Chainsaw like it's my pet. I'm protective of his BMW like it's my adopted child. Hell, i even love his boyfriend like i'm his mother. Same goes here: I don't just like Kate and Sean, it's just everything! I'm not sure i can explain it. Full review to come soon. ...more I am seriously excited for this. As excited as this kitten, in fact. \"This Skarmouth is raw and hungry, striving and unknowable. Everything the race makes me feel on the inside is bleeding up through the seams in the street tonight.\" - Sean Kendrick \"I wonder how long it will take for me to feel as adult on the inside as I look on the outside.\" - Puck Connolly *deep breath* Sometimes you read a book and it becomes your whole world while you are reading it. For me, The Scorpio Races is one of those books. I am just forever in debt to Maggie Stiefvater because this b \"This Skarmouth is raw and hungry, striving and unknowable. Everything the race makes me feel on the inside is bleeding up through the seams in the street tonight.\" - Sean Kendrick \"I wonder how long it will take for me to feel as adult on the inside as I look on the outside.\" - Puck Connolly *deep breath* Sometimes you read a book and it becomes your whole world while you are reading it. For me, The Scorpio Races is one of those books. I am just forever in debt to Maggie Stiefvater because this book has truly affected me. It's very difficult for me to put into words. But the best way I can say it is this: The Scorpio Races is the kind of story I would hope to write, if I had the talent. It's incredibly unique. Stiefvater's writing is totally immersive. So much detail, and yet all of it felt relevant. I savored every word, every page, every single bit of this book that I could. I have heard some say that it was too slow, and I understand that critcism. It just wasn't true for me and my personal reading experience. Yes it was slow, but I feel that it absolutely needed to be. This is a story that blooms in its own time, a breathtaking experience if given the proper patience. While I read this, I was on the island of Thisby. I could feel the cold November breeze threading through my hair, I could smell the tinges of brine and blood on the waves that soaked the shoreline. I could hear my heart beating in my ears as the events unfolded. And I read the last thirty pages of this story with tears streaming down my face. I'm just so damn emotional , and sitting here in a heap of my feelings. I know this review isn't very specific, but it suffices to say that I loved everything . From the characterization, to the world building, to the plot, to the writing style - it's the whole package. I couldn't recommend this book enough, especially for fans of Stiefvater's other works. Now please excuse me while I go recover in a dark corner somewhere. ...more \"It's easy to convince men to love you. All you have to do is be a mountain they have to climb or a poem they don't understand.\" Puck has a horse, two brothers and soon no house to call a home. Sean's heart beats for something that he doesn't own. Both have no choice and only one chance to get what they desperately need. It's either win or die. Why did I not pick this up sooner? This totally deserves the 5 star rating. My heart goes out to every single tiny detail of this book. But most of all for \"It's easy to convince men to love you. All you have to do is be a mountain they have to climb or a poem they don't understand.\" Puck has a horse, two brothers and soon no house to call a home. Sean's heart beats for something that he doesn't own. Both have no choice and only one chance to get what they desperately need. It's either win or die. Why did I not pick this up sooner? This totally deserves the 5 star rating. My heart goes out to every single tiny detail of this book. But most of all for the oh so precious characters. I'm a little in love with all of them, but very much so with Finn. I'm at loss with words and it's too late to form a clear thought, especially now that The Raven King is waiting for me to be read. A+ for world building, plot, characters, writing, unpredictability and magic. Perfect from start to finish. ...more Tarot card reading for this book: inverted Tower. The Tower is leaning into the sea, crumbling, with thrashing waves and stormy skies, and while it can be a card of destruction, it can also be a card of fundamental change--which describes The Scorpio Races down to the letter. A fierce and hungry book. Even the wind is hungry here, \"a live, starving thing.\" The tomboyish Kate, otherwise known as 'Puck,' and her brothers have been orphaned ever since the carnivorous water horses killed their parent Tarot card reading for this book: inverted Tower. The Tower is leaning into the sea, crumbling, with thrashing waves and stormy skies, and while it can be a card of destruction, it can also be a card of fundamental change--which describes The Scorpio Races down to the letter. A fierce and hungry book. Even the wind is hungry here, \"a live, starving thing.\" The tomboyish Kate, otherwise known as 'Puck,' and her brothers have been orphaned ever since the carnivorous water horses killed their parents. Loss runs through Kate's thoughts daily, ghosts of her parents and the struggle of being a family when none of the remaining children is an effective adult. One night, her oldest brother announces his decision to emigrate to the mainland, motivating Kate to enter the annual horse race that celebrates the water horses' return to land. Even as the whole island survives because of the horses and the tourists they bring, there is a deep strand of ambivalence at the prospect of their return, as they inevitably bring carnage and death. Narrative switches between Kate and Sean, both entrants into the lethal race. Sean is a little older, more independent, more sure, but half wild himself. He too has lost a parent to the horses, and the other to the mainland, but unlike Puck, he is only respectful of them, not fearful. A multiple race-winner, he has numerous little magics that assist him in control over the water horses--twine, spit, iron. When Puck meets him, she finds he is \"a dark-haired boy who is made of all corners.\" Sean's storyline involves a jealous and vengeful beta-male attempting to best him with capturing and training the horses, not one of my favorite plots. Beta's actions perhaps goes over the top for the justification we are given. I appreciated the extent to which the two voices are distinct in telling their stories. It's fascinating when they meet some of the same people, each describing and interacting with them in their own style. Puck is clearly younger, both developmentally and emotionally, but she's trying hard to grow up: \"I hope he doesn't, because my character's improved a lot since then. Nowadays I would've only thought the spitting part instead of saying it to his face.\" One of the highlights of The Scorpio Races is the language. Deceptively simple language is used extremely well, creating atmosphere and character that stands out without cumbersome description. Even something as simple as Sean watching a man carving meat is described carefully: \"I am mesmerized by the utter unawareness of the entire process, the childlike pleasure Beech takes in a job ill done.\" There's quite a few ugly occurrences in this book, but something about the prose makes it darkly beautiful: \"Padgett is beginning to look improbable; something about him is starting to look less like a man and more like meat.\" I enjoyed the uniqueness of the mystical element in the water horses and the mythology of the island. The mythology behind their return plays second fiddle, however, as the focus for Puck and Sean is on survival, and the options for emotional survival that winning will bring. I love the visual of the horses riding the crest of a wave onto the sand, but their bloodthirstiness and destruction thread through the book in a dark weave. Still, Stiefvater captures their swift beauty, \"she is down the beach like an osprey diving for a fish\" and creates sympathy for Sean's longing and love for his own water horse, Corr. Puck's faithful pony, (\" horse! \") Dove stands in sharp contrast to the barely bridled wildness of the water horses, and her willing and realistically drawn great heart is one of the soft pleasures of the story. \"She is my mare and my best friend, and I keep waiting for some thing bad to happen to her, because I love her too much.\" Overall, and enjoyable read that I'd recommend. It's grim but not despairing; there's a gently developed love interest that rises beyond the constraints of most YA romances, and the main characters are unique, sincere people doing what they can. Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0... ...more That was a complete and utter gift. I will treasure this book for the rest of my life. Absolutely fantasical! More please... First off, a huge thanks to Flannery from thereadventurer who is touring this book with the Street Corner Bookers and allowed me to experience this crazy sauce of a book! Thank you! Wow! Just wow!! Maggie Stiefvater has definitely cemented her status in the YA genre and Scorpio Races is her full access ticket to the game. I've enjoyed her Mercy Falls trilogy for over a couple of years, but this book has definitely pulled her away from the pack and shown she ha Absolutely fantasical! More please... First off, a huge thanks to Flannery from thereadventurer who is touring this book with the Street Corner Bookers and allowed me to experience this crazy sauce of a book! Thank you! Wow! Just wow!! Maggie Stiefvater has definitely cemented her status in the YA genre and Scorpio Races is her full access ticket to the game. I've enjoyed her Mercy Falls trilogy for over a couple of years, but this book has definitely pulled her away from the pack and shown she has what it takes to deliver a novel that will have you falling for the characters, emerging yourself in the setting, and feeling the magic. If I had to choose one thing that Steifvater excels in, I'd have to say it's her ability to make you feel a part of the setting. She has a way of bringing it to life for the reader, whether it's the cold icy woods of Mercy Falls, or the cliff-side ocean breeze of Skarmouth. She creates such vivid back-drop that you can actually imagine along with the characters having ocean mist spray your face and the sea water confuse your senses. Well done! This story takes place on the small island of Skarmouth. A place where riders compete in a deadly race every November with capaill uisce (pronounced copple ishka) which are intense and predatory water horses that emerge from the sea. These stallions aren't your normal racing thoroughbreds. These mystical creatures feed on blood and require charms and magic to ride, and at any moment they can turn on their rider and attack. The Scorpio Races is a high stakes game that only the best men enter to compete. That's until Puck (Kate) Connolly finds herself not only orphaned when her parents fall victim to these savage horses that crave blood, but also when her older brother Gabe decides to abandon her and Finn, the youngest of the three, to the mainland. Kate decides to enter the Scorpio Races to try and stop her brother from leaving and hopefully win the money to make ends meet. In order for her to win though, she'll have to race against Sean Kendrick, a four time champion in the games. Sean is drawn to the games and the ocean that knows him by name. His moves are influenced by magic as he draws circles in the sand and whispers commands to his beast Corr to control its power. Sean knows what it takes to win the race and his stallion is the one to beat. Winning the game for him, though, isn't about money, but very few know his true motivation. This story is highly character driven and legend induced. There were so many characters that I fell for especially Sean, who let me tell you is nothing like Sam from Shiver. He's fierce and commanding and probably has never read a line of poetry or plucked a guitar string in his life. ^^ Puck is a worthy main character as well. She's strong and determined and willing to do what it takes for her and Finn to survive. She's rough around the edges and probably can't make her hands clean enough to cook a chicken, but that doesn't stop her from trying to survive the game. I also loved Puck's younger bother Finn. He's ever awkward and extremely loyal to Puck. He's like a fey, you don't thank him or ever give him a compliment. There's just something about him that makes Finn so hug-worthy. Overall, this book is so much more than racing to the finish line. It's about proving to yourself that you're stronger than others define you to be. It's about pushing yourself to that place that reveals who you really are and what you're truly capable of. Yes, this book mixes in a light romance, but the bond between these two racers is beyond the normal attraction, it's about knowing what you're willing to sacrifice to earn what you really need. Absolutely beautiful! So if you can't tell by now, I loved this book. Scorpio Races is Triple Crown worthy blending fantasy, magic and romance for a high adventure race to the finish! A must read for fans of Stiefvater and anyone that's looking to experience a magical adventure. ...more Buddy Read starting Feb 15, 2015 with Brandi , Nicholas , Tandie , Sophie , D G , Athena Shardbearer , Kerry , Mich , AshleyR , Jessica and Michelle at Buddies Books and Baubles Steve West has one of the sexiest voices ever. What a great time I had listening to this story all over again. Thanks buddy readers for a really fun reread of a story I enjoy. Original Review: 4.5 Stars \u201cI didn't know,\" I start truthfully, \"that it was the hard way when I started on it.\u201d I\u2019ve have never given a recommendation to sp Buddy Read starting Feb 15, 2015 with Brandi , Nicholas , Tandie , Sophie , D G , Athena Shardbearer , Kerry , Mich , AshleyR , Jessica and Michelle at Buddies Books and Baubles Steve West has one of the sexiest voices ever. What a great time I had listening to this story all over again. Thanks buddy readers for a really fun reread of a story I enjoy. Original Review: 4.5 Stars \u201cI didn't know,\" I start truthfully, \"that it was the hard way when I started on it.\u201d I\u2019ve have never given a recommendation to specifically read or listen to book but I think for this one I will. I have found that the writing style of Maggie Stiefvater, it is slower and eloquent, lends itself better to being spoken aloud than reading. I don\u2019t think I would have liked this book nearly as much had I read it. I feel the same way about Raven Boys also by Maggie and anything written by Lani Taylor. The audio version of the book has two different voices to relay the alternating POV of Kate (Puck) and Sean. Both narrators did an exceptional job with the cadence of the story and delivery of emotion. One of the best audiobooks I\u2019ve listened to. \u201cMy mother always said that I was born out of a bottle of vinegar instead of born from a womb and that she and my father bathed me in sugar for three days to wash it off. I try to behave, but I always go back to the vinegar.\u201d This is not your typical YA book where there is always a lot of action happening and a faster pace. It takes some time for the story to get moving but I immediately liked the characters. Both are underdogs in their own way. Puck has lost both her parents and needs to win the purse for her family. Sean needs to win to be able to buy the waterhorse he loves and freedom for them both. Both have a set of obstacles to overcome and it could have worked out that they would end up enemies as competitors but remarkably they become friends. \u201cWhere will you and Corr be?\u201d I ask. Sean presses two fingers along the edge of the counter, sweeping crumbs into a pile. I notice that his fingers are permanently dirt-stained like mine. He says, \u201cRight next to you and Dove.\u201d I stare at him. \u201cYou can\u2019t risk not winning. Not because of me.\u201d Sean doesn\u2019t lift his eyes from the counter. \u201cWe make our move when you make yours. You on the inside, me on the outside. Corr can come from the middle of the pack; he\u2019s done it before. It\u2019s one side you won\u2019t have to worry about.\u201d I say, \u201cI will not be your weakness, Sean Kendrick.\u201d Now he looks at me. He says, very softly, \u201cIt\u2019s late for that, Puck.\u201d The race is fraught with danger, even the training is dangerous. The Capll uisce (waterhorses) are fierce and not to be trusted. There are some heart stopping events happening throughout the book but for the most part it is about the two people trying to get by with what they have been given and falling unexpectedly in love along the way. The romance however is very far from the front of the story. It is more about the Island, which is a character all of its own, as well as the sea and the Capall uisce. I was fascinated by the descriptions of this harsh Island world and the ferocious love that both Puck and Sean feel for somewhere that has taken so much from both of them. The actual race isn\u2019t until the very end of the book and doesn\u2019t take long. Much like an actually horse race a lot of banter before and then it is over in the blink of an eye. I really didn\u2019t want it to end, I wanted to see if Holly came back in a year and his predictions were true. I wanted to stay with Puck and Sean and Finn even after the ending. The very ending was unexpected and beautiful, I teared up a little as I thought that it was a great example of love and sacrifice. ...more This was a book I was ready to hate. Actually, if I'm being honest, this was a book I wanted to hate. What? German foosball players aren't the only ones capable of schadenfreude. Plus, this was a story about horses, those vicious, four-legged beasts that naive children are tricked into riding at summer camp before they're brutally thrown off. Hypothetically speaking, of course. Yet I found myself drawn into this story, this mythic tale of savage water horses in a barbaric race created by all too This was a book I was ready to hate. Actually, if I'm being honest, this was a book I wanted to hate. What? German foosball players aren't the only ones capable of schadenfreude. Plus, this was a story about horses, those vicious, four-legged beasts that naive children are tricked into riding at summer camp before they're brutally thrown off. Hypothetically speaking, of course. Yet I found myself drawn into this story, this mythic tale of savage water horses in a barbaric race created by all too real people, and I found myself hoping it was all real. Because that would mean Sean, Corr, Puck, and Dove exist. I loved these characters, never mind that Corr and Dove are two of those four-legged beasts I despised not too long ago. Maggie Stiefvater 's mythic capaill uisce are wild water horses that come ashore the island of Thisby once a year. Those capaill that have been captured are raced in the island's famous Scorpio Races, a tradition similar to the Running of the Bulls in Pamplona, but with far more deadly results. It attracts crowds from all over, people drawn to the thrilling and terrible spectacle. The Scorpio Races are so dangerous that fatalities occur before the race even starts. Capaill are controlled by two things: the call of the ocean and their bloodlust. Despite months or even years of training by the capall whisperer, Sean Kendrick, capaill can never fully be trusted. Their natural instinct to kill is too strong. It can only be temporarily curbed. However, the tremendous risk of the races comes with even greater reward. The races are Thisby's main attraction, so most islanders just manage to eke out a living. Winning the races comes with an enormous, irresistible purse. All residents of Thisby have lost a person, or more often persons, to capaill . And if the horses don't get them, Thisby gets to them and they end up leaving. For Kate \"Puck\" Connolly, one has already happened and the other is about to happen. Her parents were killed by capaill while out fishing, and her older brother, the main breadwinner, is about to leave the island. (Raise your hand if you just pictured Matthew Fox as both Charlie Salinger and Jack Shephard.) Puck impulsively says she's going to race to get her brother to stay, or at least delay him, but when she finds out they are about to lose their house, she realizes she has to race. Sean, the whisperer, lost his father to capaill and his mother to the mainland, but he's won the races 4 times. That enormous purse and the gorgeous horse he rode on, though, belong to his boss. He races because it's his job, and he can't imagine anyone else on Corr. Puck and Sean are literally on a collision course. This is usually the part of the story where a rich and handsome 3rd party enters the picture, but The Scorpio Races isn't a love story. It's a survival story. The only love triangle here is between a capall , his rider, and the ocean -- and it's beautiful and heartbreaking. This is a book I saw in my head. Maggie Stiefvater crafts such a visual story I could picture every scene. For Thisby, I pictured Jersey in the Channel Islands. The dual points of view of Sean and Puck allowed me to get into their heads. When I started this book, I figured I'd just read it and rate it and be done with it. After all, why spend my time writing a review for an author who doesn't really value them? In this case, it's because what the author put out is that good. It's the same debate I go through whenever I think about buying Kanye's latest album. Yeah, he says shit that irritates the hell out of me, but damn, does he know how to make music. Maggie Stiefvater? She knows how to make music. This review appears on Young Adult Anonymous . ...more On a small island in the Scorpio Sea, men and boys strive to capture the deadly, killer water horses that come onto the land from the ocean. If they can master these mounts, they can ride in the yearly races for honor, glory, and big cash bets. Sean Kendrick races for his father, killed by the same water horse he rides now, and for the horse farm he works for as chief hostler. He has won the Scorpio Races four times and understands the water horses like no one else. Puck Connolly, on the other h On a small island in the Scorpio Sea, men and boys strive to capture the deadly, killer water horses that come onto the land from the ocean. If they can master these mounts, they can ride in the yearly races for honor, glory, and big cash bets. Sean Kendrick races for his father, killed by the same water horse he rides now, and for the horse farm he works for as chief hostler. He has won the Scorpio Races four times and understands the water horses like no one else. Puck Connolly, on the other hand, has everything against her. She is a girl. She has never ridden a water horse, and plans to ride her own normal horse in the races. And if she doesn't win, she and her younger brother will lose their family farm. Both Puck and Sean are outsiders. Sean is feared by some, treated with awe by others, hated by the son of the man he works for. Puck is despised and scorned--no girl has ever ridden in the races, though they began in honor of a goddess whose rites were observed--are still observed--by a priestess. The reader is constantly reminded that blood and pain are the cost of the games and that Puck and her gentle mount Dove really have no chance at all. But there is something about Puck, her understanding, and her stubborn courage that speaks to the loner Sean, and that might make the difference for both of them and their mounts. Maggie gets better with every book. ...more Edit: I feel it worth nothing that this is my 250th Goodreads review. Yay milestones! This is the first time I've felt even a little guilty about not liking a galley. I didn't really enjoy this book, but I didn't hate it enough not to care, and so here I am stuck in limbo, not really sure what to do with it. The idea is absolutely fabulous. A race run on killer water horses? Yes, please. And there's the element of romance between two competitors, both with a reason they need to win, which just amp Edit: I feel it worth nothing that this is my 250th Goodreads review. Yay milestones! This is the first time I've felt even a little guilty about not liking a galley. I didn't really enjoy this book, but I didn't hate it enough not to care, and so here I am stuck in limbo, not really sure what to do with it. The idea is absolutely fabulous. A race run on killer water horses? Yes, please. And there's the element of romance between two competitors, both with a reason they need to win, which just amps up the tension. It's like a less violent, more equine sort of Hunger Games, though no one is forced to participate. It should have been awesome. So, why wasn't it? Well, for a start, the plot rested on a couple of too-neat coincidences. Things appear to have shifted on Thisby all at once for no good reason. Why is this the year when everything comes together? There was an opportunity for it all to be explained, and then it would have been fine, but since it wasn't addressed it bothered me all the way through. (view spoiler) [If, for instance, Gabe had been offered a job on the mainland and that was his impetus for leaving now; and if Sean had asked Mr. Malvern about Corr every year and this year, for motivations of his own, Malvern gave in and made a deal; and if something had been the straw that broke the camel's back for Mutt, since he doesn't appear to have acted out like this before. (hide spoiler) ] I'll suspend my disbelief for the killer water horses, but not for such a series of coincidences There's also the fact that, even now, I'm not sure where Thisby is or what time period this was set in. It was never made clear on either count, though I have theories. Thisby might well be off the coast of Ireland, but it could as easily be Canadian for all I know. And while it's important for books to steer clear of dating themselves too neatly, it would be nice to get a sense of time. I went back and forth from thinking this story was supposed to take place in modern times to wondering if maybe it was happening in the twenties or earlier. After all, wouldn't there be television cameras there for the races if it happened now, instead of newspaper reporters with big flashbulbs? Maybe it's supposed to feel timeless and universal, but what it came off as was loose and ungrounded. As for the plot, well, it's really nothing to speak of. No, honestly. You'd think a book titled The Scorpio Races would take place mostly during said races, right? And you'd be wrong. The race gets one chapter - ten pages - and that's it. The rest of the book is about getting ready for the races and training and Puck and Sean getting to know each other courtesy of some more coincidences and all sorts of extraneous things that weren't the least bit necessary. I was bored and frustrated with more than half of this book. Things happen for silly reasons, or for no good reason at all, and often they have nothing to do with the plot whatsoever. (view spoiler) [What purpose did the capall coming to the Connolly house serve? It wasn't even atmospheric because it was just that isolated incident. (hide spoiler) ] Wherever authors are learning that it's okay to spend 75% of their books without a real plot or any real tension, they need to stop. This is not okay. And if you absolutely must shy around the real plot, make sure you have enough subplots to keep things interesting until you get to the main event, okay? If you've read a Stiefvater book before, you know that she has a very distinctive, elaborate writing style, and frankly the pacing might not have been a problem without that. Yes, her words are pretty, sometimes, though it is difficult to discern the two protagonists' narrations because they sound so similar. But her style is slow going, at least for this reader. It needs a strong plot and lots of tension to carry it, and that's not here. Because nothing is happening for the longest time, phrases that might seem lovely in another context feel overwrought and bloated, and that's a real shame. The protagonists, Puck and Sean, grew on me even as they grew on each other, and that's probably what saved this book from getting two stars. There's a lovely little 'training montage' type chapter that I really enjoyed, even if it was brief, because the relationship between them is a sweet and beautiful thing and founded on mutual respect and understanding. I'm glad that they improved over the course of the book, too, because there was a point when I cared more about the barn cat than I did about Puck. By the end of the book, I was really quite happy with Puck. Near the beginning, though, she was the primary source of frustration. You see, in a race of killer horses, she's riding an ordinary mare. Words cannot express how much this bothered me. First off, it's cruel to her mare, who spends a lot of her time being terrified and trembling. Second, it saps some of the tension from the race. As a reader, I need to believe that the conclusion is going to be close and dramatic, in particular between the two main characters. Even after training, there was no doubt in my mind that Sean and his water horse, Corr, could have beat Puck and her mount, Dove, without really trying. The ending was a bit more satisfying than I expected given that, but the anticipation still bothered me through most of the book. The best thing about this book, after the basic idea of it, is that there will probably not be a sequel. It's complete in and of itself, and thank goodness; that idea, while compelling and awesome, is not good enough to carry more than one novel. Oh, and one last thing: far, far too many of the supporting cast felt two-dimensional and rigid. I almost forgot to mention that. ...more The Scorpio Races is one of those books that you can read as much as you want about and raise your expectations to seemingly unreachable levels, but nothing can prepare you for the story within its pages. It\u2019s beautiful \u2013 from the writing, to the descriptions, to the characters and their relationships \u2013 everything about this novel is a beauty. Yet, what truly moved me as I read this novel was the sheer amount of passion it contained. I have never read a Maggie Stiefvater novel before, but if The Scorpio Races is one of those books that you can read as much as you want about and raise your expectations to seemingly unreachable levels, but nothing can prepare you for the story within its pages. It\u2019s beautiful \u2013 from the writing, to the descriptions, to the characters and their relationships \u2013 everything about this novel is a beauty. Yet, what truly moved me as I read this novel was the sheer amount of passion it contained. I have never read a Maggie Stiefvater novel before, but if each one of her stories is like this, then I can definitely see the appeal. If anything, it feels as if Stiefvater poured her heart out into this novel; as if it was waiting, dark, secret, and hidden in her soul, just waiting to be spilled onto paper. It isn\u2019t often that I can say that I truly felt immersed in a novel, but I most certainly did with this story. In fact, when I finished it I could only blink in silence, not only at its brilliance, but to remind myself that I wasn\u2019t on a magical island, standing barefoot on the beach; I was merely a reader having read a remarkable novel. It was then that I knew that The Scorpio Races was a novel that would stick with me\u2026for a long time. While Stiefvater\u2019s novel is titled The Scorpio Races, in reality the race itself takes up very little of the plot. Thus, it seems like an insult to this novel to give you any type of plot summary of it as nothing will do it justice. I could tell you that The Scorpio Races is told from the dual narration of Puck Connolloy and Sean Kendricks, both of whom are competing in Scorpio Races held every November on the island of Thisby. I could also tell you that this isn\u2019t just any horse race, it is one with the capaill uisce, deadly seahorses that thirst for flesh and blood. I could further go on to tell you that Sean is a four-time winner of this dangerous competition which takes peoples\u2019 lives and Puck is the first girl to ever enter; that Sean has been promised ownership of Corr, the capaill uisce who is his friend, brother, and family; that if Puck wins her family will not be evicted; I could tell you all of this, but I won\u2019t because it isn\u2019t important. In reality, The Scorpio Races is a novel about love, passion, and friendship and those are far more important, compelling, and heart-warming than any horserace could ever be. I have to admit, I didn\u2019t expect to love this book as much as I did. In fact, ever since I heard Stiefvater\u2019s Shiver Series described as Twilight for Team Jacob fans, I have studiously avoiding her writing until very recently when the glowing reviews of The Raven Boys began to trickle in. Yet, Stiefvater is a truly phenomenal author, one whose writing is extremely descriptive, detailed, and atmospheric. Not only did I truly feel as if I were in Thisby, caught up in the excitement leading up the Scorpio Races myself, I felt as if I was Puck and Sean too as their feelings and emotions were so tangible, even to me as the reader. While The Scorpio Races is a novel about many things, including the stories of Puck and Sean, it is primarily a story about seahorses. In fact, even the land, Thisby, is a character in itself for it is a land with people who are vastly different from everyone else, whose trademark is their Scorpio Races, and it is a land that beckons to these dangerous creatures from far away. Yet, for all its beauty, the island of Thisby isn\u2019t my favorite character \u2013 it\u2019s Sean Kendrick. Sean isn\u2019t your typical, run-of-the-mill swoon-worthy guy, but boy did I swooooon! I think what really made me fall for Sean was his passion for horses. It is evident that he has a way with these magnificent creatures and the entire island respects him for his ability to knock sense into and break, not only horses but even the capaill uisce. Yet, Sean only truly cares for one horse \u2013 Corr. I still don\u2019t know how Stiefvater did it, but she developed the friendship between Sean and Corr perfectly. In fact, when I think of them, I don\u2019t think of them as man and beast, I think of them as one being as they understand each other perfectly and are nothing without each other. If I\u2019m being honest, I might as well admit that the strength of their bond, their deep-rooted trust of one another, and overall relationship was so heart-warming that I often found myself tearing up ever-so-slightly as the novel progressed. While Sean completely steals the show, in my opinion at least, with his rare smiles and portrayal of being a strong-but-silent type, Puck too is a brilliant character. Puck, whose actual name is Kate, is faced with a struggle to become the first woman to participate in the Scorpio Races. Although she has excellent reasons for joining, the island which she loves so dearly contains superstitions amongst other prejudices that make it difficult for her to participate. Yet, she never gives up, persevering on courageously in the face of danger, and for that, I love her and her firm conviction. In the age of Mary Sues in YA Fiction, she is truly an empowering and inspirational character for women everywhere. Yet, for all my love of Puck and Sean individually, I loved their romance as well. While they seem to be total opposites, their joint passion for the island and its horses is what brings them together and it seeps through vibrantly on every page. I loved that their romance was slow-to-build and even more butterfly-inducing as it burned, but it never detracted from the novel in the least which I appreciated. The Scorpio Races isn\u2019t meant to be a romance \u2013 it is meant to be a story of horses, of love, of passion, of connection between man and beast, of love for a land and of its magic. It does have a slow beginning, but it is a start that perfectly sets the stage and develops these characters into wonderfully moving, tear-inducing, and realistic beings. In all honesty, there is a lot about The Scorpio Races which I haven\u2019t said, but I don\u2019t want to tell you \u2013 I want you to find it and read it and cherish the magic this story creates for your own. It is a novel that will make you think, reflect, appreciate, and contemplate over for nights. It is a story that is thought-provoking and heart-warming, that is deep and beautiful, and that will strike a cord within your heart. I loved the lyrical prose, the rich complexities and multi-dimensions of every character, and the way in which this tale unfolded. I don\u2019t know what more to say about it; I just want to think over it for hours. In fact, I can say only one more thing before I leave you all to pick up a copy of this yourselves: I loved it. I don\u2019t love a lot of books, but I loved this, and if that doesn\u2019t compel you to pick it up, then I don\u2019t know what will. You can read this review and more on my blog, Ivy Book Bindings. ...more I'll never look at horses the same again. This book is amazing. I really have nothing negative to say. From page one I was so interested in this book. I loved it right from the start. The writing is incredible and mesmerizing. The characters are beautiful and complex. The plot is interesting and the concept is mind blowing. There's only a handful of books that I've read that have made me feel how I felt while reading The Scorpio Races. I laughed, I cried, I did everything. I never wanted to put t I'll never look at horses the same again. This book is amazing. I really have nothing negative to say. From page one I was so interested in this book. I loved it right from the start. The writing is incredible and mesmerizing. The characters are beautiful and complex. The plot is interesting and the concept is mind blowing. There's only a handful of books that I've read that have made me feel how I felt while reading The Scorpio Races. I laughed, I cried, I did everything. I never wanted to put this book down but I also didn't want to finish it because I wanted to continue reading for the rest of my life. I wanted to stay up all night reading to find out what would happen next but I didn't because I wanted something to look forward to when I woke up. I read this book in just a day and a half but the impact that this book has left on me will last forever. Overall, I loved this book. It's definitely one of my all time favorites and I'm so glad I have this book in my life. I completely, 100 percent loved this book and I think everyone should read it. I've told anyone who will listen to read The Scorpio Races because I loved it so much. I'll be reading this book every November for the rest of my life. ...more \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03cc \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af \u03ac\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03bf,\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03b9\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf,\u03c0\u03bd\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bb\u03bc\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03ba\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ae \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b9\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2,\u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b5\u03be\u03ac\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c1\u03c0\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd. \u039a\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039d\u03bf\u03ad\u03bc\u03b2\u03c1\u03b7 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ad\u03b8\u03b9\u03bc\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03b9\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03c3\u03c4\u03af\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03af\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03b3\u03b7\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf. \u0395\u03ba\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b2\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c7\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03be\u03b5\u03b2\u03c1\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03c6\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03ae \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03cc \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af \u03ac\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03bf,\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03b9\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf,\u03c0\u03bd\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bb\u03bc\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03ba\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ae \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b9\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2,\u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b5\u03be\u03ac\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c1\u03c0\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd. \u039a\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039d\u03bf\u03ad\u03bc\u03b2\u03c1\u03b7 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ad\u03b8\u03b9\u03bc\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03b9\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03c3\u03c4\u03af\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03af\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03b3\u03b7\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf. \u0395\u03ba\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b2\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c7\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03be\u03b5\u03b2\u03c1\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03c6\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03ae \u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03cd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7 \u03b8\u03ac\u03bb\u03b1\u03c3\u03c3\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ac. \u039f\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \"\u03b5\u03be\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\" \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c0\u03bb\u03ac\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1-\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03c7\u03ad\u03c2- \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03b9\u03bf \u03b1\u03b3\u03ce\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1\u03c7\u03cd\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf \u03c7\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ad\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03bb\u03bf \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c7\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u03a4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03bb \u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bf\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03c3\u03c3\u03b9\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03bc\u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03bb\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03b8\u03c1\u03cd\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03bf\u03bc\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b1\u03af\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c1\u03c0\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd. \u039c\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c6\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c0\u03c4\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03bb \u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03af\u03ba\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03bb\u03ad\u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03b9\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bf\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03c0\u03b5\u03b4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b5\u03be\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03bd\u03ad\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ce\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c5\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b2\u03b9\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ac\u03c3\u03c7\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ae \u03c6\u03c4\u03ce\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03af\u03b1. \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7! ...more In the Scorpio sea, somewhere in the Atlantic, lies the island of Thisby. It's a small island mainly inhabited by fishermen but it's also popular for its capaill uisce and its Scorpio Races. Capaill uisce are fearsome water horses. They feed on meat and blood and they are predators, killers. The Scorpio Races are held each year in November and they're a tradition in Thisby. They're also dangerous, brutal and the cause of several casualties each year; because of course riders, in these races, com In the Scorpio sea, somewhere in the Atlantic, lies the island of Thisby. It's a small island mainly inhabited by fishermen but it's also popular for its capaill uisce and its Scorpio Races. Capaill uisce are fearsome water horses. They feed on meat and blood and they are predators, killers. The Scorpio Races are held each year in November and they're a tradition in Thisby. They're also dangerous, brutal and the cause of several casualties each year; because of course riders, in these races, compete riding capaill uisce . This year, Kate \"Puck\" Connolly, has decided to ride too. She wants to delay her brother's departure for the mainland and to save the house they lived in ever since their parents were killed from the capaill uisce . Winning the race would solve all her problems and so she enrolls. But she's a woman and no woman has ever ridden in the races before. Sean Kendrick is the most experienced and talented horse trainer that the island of Thisby has ever seen. He's lost his father in the races and has won four times with his capall uisce, Corr, He is also the only one who can help and protect Puck in her desperate mission. No words can be more eloquent than the author's own to describe the intrinsic weakness and strengths of this book. \"Other writers might have different priorities, but for me, the chief goal of my novels is not plot or premise or pacing, but to evoke a certain feeling. I will sacrifice most anything in order to change someone's mood in a certain way. I can't do that without careful navigation of metaphor and character development.\" Taken from Maggie Stievater's blog, on \"Dissecting Pages for Mood\" . Perhaps, the biggest strength (and therein lies the talent) of Stiefvater's writing is that it is nothing but atmospheric. She is able to catapult the reader on the island of Thisby in November. You can feel the wind chafe, the water sprays freezing you to the bone, the smell of fish. She manages to dominate all your senses in such a complete way that you're there, smelling, touching, tasting (the November cakes, yum). It's the kind of writing that I got enamored of in Shiver. Lyrical, exquisite, it touches you deeply and leaves and indelible sign. Aside from the beautiful writing, the concept of the story is also very interesting. My experience of water horses was limited to the kelpies from other fairy books and I knew they were dangerous animals that would drown you before you realized it. The capaill uisce though are dreadful monsters, brutal, fearsome. I was fascinated by the relationship between Corr and Sean, by the total unconditional love of a boy for a being that might kill you in the blink of an eye. In fact, I'd say the main love story in the Scorpio Races is not of the \"human kind\" but it's about a love based on friendship, trust, sacrifice between a man and a monster. Much as I liked these aspects of the story and found the second part of the book unputdownable - no, scratch that, I HAD to put it down. The last chapters of the book, especially the ones describing the races got me so agitated I had to shut to the book and take a break from time to time, lest I give myself a stroke. Unfortunately, the first part was Mountain Everest for me. I barely made it to the top, right before giving up. It seems like Stiefvater really holds true to her words in the quote up there when she says that the main chief of her novels is not plot or premise of pacing because the pacing is really an issue for about the first 200 pages of the book. And that's A LOT in my opinion. I deem this to be a big problem because really, I can't even imagine a teen getting over those first two hundred pages and still be interested in the story. If a book is abandoned because it's too slow at the beginning, what is the careful navigation and character development good for, if the reader never makes it to that point? Nevertheless, I am so glad I did get over that first, looooong, uneventful part and finally got sucked in the story (also, I was fearing for my life, ahem) when I could finally appreciate Stiefvater's writing maturation, if compared to her previous novels, such as Shiver . I will definitely be looking forward to her future works. Also appears on The Nocturnal Library . ...more Welp, kids. It's been real, but I'm going to retire now. This is a perfect book. It's perfect. This. Book. Is. Perfect. It is an embarrassment for me to even try to write anything after this. So, in lieu of continuing to try to write, I will simply be giving out copies of The Scorpio Races to everyone for all future birthdays and Christmases. The Scorpio Races is a beautifully written novel inspired by Celtic mythology. The book will pull you in with a luscious setting, engaging characters, and a touching storyline about homeland, family bonds, and (equine) friendship. The Scorpio Races \u2019s storyline follows two contenders in the famous but dangerous Scorpio races which take place every November on a little Irish-inspired island called Thisby. The races have a unique twist, inspired by Celtic mythology, as the races are run on the infa The Scorpio Races is a beautifully written novel inspired by Celtic mythology. The book will pull you in with a luscious setting, engaging characters, and a touching storyline about homeland, family bonds, and (equine) friendship. The Scorpio Races \u2019s storyline follows two contenders in the famous but dangerous Scorpio races which take place every November on a little Irish-inspired island called Thisby. The races have a unique twist, inspired by Celtic mythology, as the races are run on the infamous, flesh-eating water horses, the capaill uisce (perhaps also known to some of you as kelpies ). \u201cIt is the first day of November and so, today, someone will die.\u201d Orphaned Kate \"Puck\" Connolly has never run in the Scorpio races before. Having lost their parents to the capaill uisce at sea, the Connolly siblings are left to fend for themselves. With the threat of eviction hanging over their head, Puck decides to participate for the prize winnings. Not only is she the first woman to contend, she is also the first rider to bring a common horse to a race traditionally won on mystical water horses. Puck is a determined, feisty, but caring character who will win you over in a heartbeat. \u201cMy mother always said that I was born out of a bottle of vinegar instead of born from a womb and that she and my father bathed me in sugar for three days to wash it off. I try to behave, but I always go back to the vinegar.\u201d Puck undergoes a tremendous character development, strengthened by the bonds to her horse, Dove, and Sean. The incredibly relatable character she is, Puck will take you on a quest for survival, self-discovery, and to prove that women belong in the Scorpio races just as much as men do. Her expression is fierce and uncompromising, full of the intrepid bravery of a small boat in an uncertain sea. Sean Kendrick and his blood-red capall uisce , Corr, have won the races four times. Highly experienced and passionate about the lethal water horses, Sean is not only a celebrity on Thisby, he is also an expert in the species\u2019 training and handling. The Scorpio races are not mere races for him: They\u2019re about knowledge, they\u2019re about tactics, but most of all, they\u2019re about the sound of the sea in his ears, the rough wind in his hair, and the energy of his water horse coursing through his blood. It's about passion, not competition. Hidden beneath his rough edges are a gentle soul, a cunning mind, and a lonely heart. (In brief, Sean Kendrick is an Irish dreamboat). \u201cWhat it's like is a battle. A mess of horses and men and blood. The fastest and strongest of what is left from two weeks of preparation on the sand. It's the surf in your face, the deadly magic of November on your skin, the Scorpio drums in the place of your heartbeat. It's speed, if you're lucky. It's life and it's death or it's both, and there's nothing like it.\u201d Both Puck and Sean contend in the races with a lot to win but everything to lose. The novel has a lot to offer besides the two main characters with their sizzling chemistry. Those of you who\u2019re familiar with Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s work know that her writing wins half the game. It\u2019s like an inked dance on paper, words twirling into beautiful, rich-in-meaning phrases. Her writing is scattered with imaginative metaphors and lush descriptions of the setting. Maggie tackles the obvious themes, such as family and romance, but she also addresses the fierce competition in the races, and how envy can turn ugly when there\u2019s a lot to lose. Further, and much to my surprise, there\u2019s a subtle inclusion of an obsessive-compulsive disorder ( \u201dWhere\u2019s Finn?\u201d I break in. \u2013 \u201cWashing his hands, of course,\u201d Gabe says. \u201cIt may be decades.\u201d ). Although the storyline mainly focuses on the preparations for the race, more than on the race itself, the plot never grew boring or repetitive. On the contrary, Maggie Stiefvater proves that it doesn\u2019t take a lot of parallel storylines, magical elements, and plot twists to write a formidable book. The Scorpio Races is a character-driven novel which is more about what happens on the inside than on the outside. Do not read the book expecting to get an action-packed plot with mind-blowing twists. The book makes promises of blood and death and racing, and while it certainly keeps those promises, the core of the book is not really about the races at all. This book is about love: Love for other human beings, love for equine companions, and love for one\u2019s homeland, even if it\u2019s a small, godforsaken island in a rough sea. \u201cDoes anyone ask you why you stay, Sean Kendrick?\u201d \u201cThey do.\u201d \u201cAnd why do you?\u201d \u201cThe sky and the sand and the sea and Corr.\u201d The Celtic-inspired capaill uisce , the subtle but heart-stopping romance, and the steady build-up of tension before the Scorpio races make for a wonderful, gripping read. Highly recommended. ...more V\u00cdDEO SOBRE O LIVRO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FGutB... A autora Maggie Stiefvater tem um estilo de escrita bastante peculiar. Lembre-se, toda vez que voc\u00ea ler algo dela vai ser totalmente diferente do que voc\u00ea est\u00e1 acostumado. Ela procura sempre sair do lugar comum ao criar suas hist\u00f3rias fant\u00e1sticas, escolhe mitologias pouco exploradas e escreve uma aventura maravilhosa. A corrida de escorpi\u00e3o conta a hist\u00f3ria de uma ilha especial, que uma vez por ano recebe a visita de cavalos m\u00e1gicos que V\u00cdDEO SOBRE O LIVRO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FGutB... A autora Maggie Stiefvater tem um estilo de escrita bastante peculiar. Lembre-se, toda vez que voc\u00ea ler algo dela vai ser totalmente diferente do que voc\u00ea est\u00e1 acostumado. Ela procura sempre sair do lugar comum ao criar suas hist\u00f3rias fant\u00e1sticas, escolhe mitologias pouco exploradas e escreve uma aventura maravilhosa. A corrida de escorpi\u00e3o conta a hist\u00f3ria de uma ilha especial, que uma vez por ano recebe a visita de cavalos m\u00e1gicos que vivem no oceano. Esses cavalos s\u00e3o perigosos, carn\u00edvoros e muito poderosos. E, nessa mesma \u00e9poca, a ilha promove uma corrida de cavalos, onde at\u00e9 ent\u00e3o s\u00f3 participam homens e geralmente com os cavalos m\u00e1gicos. Por\u00e9m, pra ganhar o pr\u00eamio e salvar sua fam\u00edlia, uma garota chamada Puck resolve se inscrever. Essa sim \u00e9 uma personagem muito forte! Puck \u00e9 a primeira menina a competir e vai ter que lidar com todas as pessoas que a fazem desistir, ainda mais por acharem ser uma afronta a toda f\u00e9 da ilha. Onde j\u00e1 se viu uma garota querer competir numa corrida t\u00e3o brutal? Pois \u00e9... A Maggie escreve com tanta maestria que o tempo todo a gente se pergunta se realmente existe uma ilha dessas por a\u00ed. Eu fico bem triste de a autora n\u00e3o ser t\u00e3o reconhecida no Brasil, porque ela merece todo o sucesso do mundo. Todas as pessoas deveriam conhecer seus livros. LEIAM A CORRIDA DE ESCORPI\u00c3O! Obrigada ...more *4.5 stars* I love this so much. It's not a perfect 5 stars because the first half is paced slow, but amazingly written still. Maggie Stiefvater made me emotionally attached to horses. WUT. Beautifully written. Sean and Corr man, SEAN AND CORR. My favorite part about this is how Maggie describes Thisby. It felt as if Thisby itself was another character. Every time I read this book I felt like I was magically transported there to bask in the Scorpio Races. The ending gave me so many feels. SO MANY *4.5 stars* I love this so much. It's not a perfect 5 stars because the first half is paced slow, but amazingly written still. Maggie Stiefvater made me emotionally attached to horses. WUT. Beautifully written. Sean and Corr man, SEAN AND CORR. My favorite part about this is how Maggie describes Thisby. It felt as if Thisby itself was another character. Every time I read this book I felt like I was magically transported there to bask in the Scorpio Races. The ending gave me so many feels. SO MANY TEARS GUYS. This solidified Maggie as my favorite author. ...more Alrighty then. I've been terrible at doing reviews lately, and I finished this book, like, a month ago. So now I'm going to review it. Because I have like two other books that I really, really want to review. Not that I don't want to review this book, because I do. But yeah. I guess I just don't have anything very entertaining to say about it. So, to briefly explain what The Scorpio Races is about, I made this illustration: Uh yeah. So it's basically about an island where horses eat people. Awesom Alrighty then. I've been terrible at doing reviews lately, and I finished this book, like, a month ago. So now I'm going to review it. Because I have like two other books that I really, really want to review. Not that I don't want to review this book, because I do. But yeah. I guess I just don't have anything very entertaining to say about it. So, to briefly explain what The Scorpio Races is about, I made this illustration: Uh yeah. So it's basically about an island where horses eat people. Awesome, eh? It didn't help that I was watching copious amounts of \"My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic\" while I was readin this book, so that's basically the image that kept appearing in my head. But to go into more depth... Basically, on this terrifying island, there are man-eating horses living in the ocean. And once a year, a bunch of people get together to race on these horses and try not to get their heads bitten off. Our two main characters are Sean\u2013\u2013who is a pro at this scary horse-riding stuff\u2013\u2013and Puck\u2013\u2013the first girl ever to enter the races, and who likes to ride ponies rather than carnivorous horses. It's been kind of a while since I read this, and it also took me a ridiculously long time to read. So, I really can't go into much detail. Also, I had an uncorrected proof copy if that makes any difference, but ... I don't know. Basically, I think Maggie Stiefvater is awesome. I first fell in love with her Books of Faerie (Is there ever going to be a third one of those, by the way?), and then of course with The Wolves of Mercy Falls. The Scorpio Races is very different from either series (also, it's a stand-alone). But it still possesses all those lovely traits that make me enjoy Maggie's books. The strength is really in the writing and the atmosphere. I love Maggie's writing style; she's great at descriptions, and makes everything vivid and easy to picture. I've seen a lot of people saying this book is very \"atmospheric,\" and normally I'd be like, \"Ha ... what does that even mean?\" But it's totally true. If you've read the book, you know what I'm talking about. There's just something very distinct about the atmosphere. It's sort of creepy and gloomy, and almost has a kind of fairytale quality to it. (Which makes sense I guess, seeing as the idea of \"water horses\" comes from mythology.) The world is very detailed (physically, anyway), to the point where I could almost feel myself living in it. The only way in which the world-building fell short was, I was confused as to when and where exactly the story was taking place. I guess it's not the world's most important detail, but at times I just found myself scratching my head about it. It was kind of unclear as to whether this was supposed to take place in the actual world, and what time period it was supposed to be. The past? The present? The future? I got the sense it took place in the real world, but on a fictional island (well, obviously). But everyone seemed to be living like it was olden times ... but like, I don't know. It still seemed kind of modern in a way. But, oh well. There was something intriguing about the ambiguity and mysteriousness of it all, so it didn't bother me that much. As for the characters ... Puck and Sean were both pretty cool. Their voices were kind of indistinct from each other, which was the only problem. There were a lot of times when I thought one of them was talking and then I'd be like, \"Oh, haha. Never mind.\" But, you know. That's a fairly common issue with multiple first-person perspectives. Otherwise, they were both interesting characters with good backstories. I also liked that their romance didn't feel all too rushed. And I know that's a problem a lot of people had with Shiver . So, just saying that if you disliked the romance in Wolves of Mercy Falls, you might still enjoy the romance in The Scorpio Races. It felt more developed. So, my one major criticism of this book was the pacing. I guess I was expecting it to be more like ... terrifying, bloodthirsty horses galloping around eating everyone in sight. But, it was more focused on developing the setting and characters\u2013\u2013which isn't a bad thing, of course. I just felt like it could have used a few more action-y parts. Maybe I just have a short attention span. Anyway, the actual Scorpio Races don't actually happen until the very, very end of the book. (Like, in the last 20 pages or so.) So, it felt a little bit rushed at the end, when I feel like the excitement could have been more spread out. But otherwise, it was very good. The world was imagined beautifully, the writing was delicious as always, and the characters were likable. Over all, quite a satisfying read. And I'm really looking forward to Maggie Stiefvater's new book. :) ...more *** Review posted on The Eater of Books! blog *** The Scorpio Races by Maggie Stiefvater Publisher: Scholastic Press Publication Date: October 18, 2011 Rating: 4 stars Source: Copy borrowed Summary (from Goodreads): It happens at the start of every November: the Scorpio Races. Riders attempt to keep hold of their water horses long enough to make it to the finish line. Some riders live. Others die. At age nineteen, Sean Kendrick is the returning champion. He is a young man of few words, and if he has any f *** Review posted on The Eater of Books! blog *** The Scorpio Races by Maggie Stiefvater Publisher: Scholastic Press Publication Date: October 18, 2011 Rating: 4 stars Source: Copy borrowed Summary (from Goodreads): It happens at the start of every November: the Scorpio Races. Riders attempt to keep hold of their water horses long enough to make it to the finish line. Some riders live. Others die. At age nineteen, Sean Kendrick is the returning champion. He is a young man of few words, and if he has any fears, he keeps them buried deep, where no one else can see them. Puck Connolly is different. She never meant to ride in the Scorpio Races. But fate hasn\u2019t given her much of a chance. So she enters the competition \u2014 the first girl ever to do so. She is in no way prepared for what is going to happen. What I Liked: I've had this book on my TBR for a long time, but never pushed myself to read it. A loooong time ago, I read Shiver and Linger by this author, but didn't like Linger so I never finished the series. I haven't read her Raven Cycle series either, though I do want to binge-read that series in the future. The Scorpio Races seemed like a good place to try again, since it's a standalone, and my good friend Pili read it recently and liked it a lot. So, I'm counting this as my July Pili-Pushed novel! The Scorpio Races happen on the island every year. Every year, riders choose a water horse, train for a month, and race. Puck Connolly lives with her older brother and younger brother, getting by meagerly. When Gabe (her older brother) tells them he's leaving the island, Puck decides to enter the Races, something no female has ever done. Sean Kendrick has won the Races four times. But winning isn't what he cares about - he loves the ocean and the horse he rides, Corr. But both he and Corr are owned and have no freedom. Freedom is what Sean wants, and this year's Races might be the way to get it. This book is told in alternating first-person POVs, so we get to experience both Sean and Puck's thoughts and feelings. I liked both perspectives a lot, which doesn't typically happen with me! Another thing that I liked about the narrative was the length of the chapters - the chapters were fairly short. Usually you find fifteen to twenty page chapters in YA books? These chapters were three or four pages long, most of the time. Which I thought was very different and cool! I liked Puck - or Kate, though she prefers Puck. She's learned to take care of herself and her brothers long ago, after her parents were killed by the ferocious water horses. When Puck enters herself in the Races, she enters her horse, Dove, who isn't a water horse. There are so many complexities to Puck that I liked discovering and figuring out. If Puck was complex, then Sean was a maze of intricacies. Sean is a man of few (no) words, and yet his presence is enormous. He's a four-time Champion, but he's also something of a water horse whisperer. No one can train the beasts and keep them under control like Sean. Sean works for Malvern's stables, who practically owns him. Sean seems to only have one weakness - Corr, the blood-red stallion that is Malvern's, that Benjamin Malvern lets Sean ride every year. The pair meet after Puck decides to ride in the Races. Many people of the island do not want Puck anywhere near the Races. It is Sean that sways the people to let her sign up, and Sean that gives her tips about the Races, and Sean that helps her and her horse train. In a way, this book was completely about the Races, and yet not about the Races at all. It's about Puck's growth from a directionless girl to a stubborn rider who fights for what she wants. It's about Sean's fight for his freedom and his horse, both of which are more important to him than the Races. Sean's journey was more interesting to me, and more heartbreaking. Sean is the brooding, mysterious boy that everyone is curious about, that everyone loves and everyone stares at. He's the one that everyone knows and is in awe of. Puck is the girl that no one wants in the Races, the poor girl whose house is about to be taken away. I love this story of two unlikely characters finding their way. So there is romance, a subtle and barely-there type. This book takes place over the course of a month or so, but it doesn't feel that way (it feels like days). It felt like Puck and Sean barely knew each other, but they trained together a lot, and days blurred together. I liked seeing the subtle romance, though it felt a little too barely-there at times. The Races themselves happened in the last twenty pages or so, so it felt like it was over before it began. But like I said, the Races were both everything and nothing in this story. The Races were short but heart-stopping, and the outcome was both unsurprising and shocking. Overall, I liked the book. I do have some complaints, but I can see the appeal of this book. Books centered around horses typically aren't my thing, but I enjoyed this one! What I Did Not Like: I kept hearing about the beautiful romance in this book, and so I think I had pretty high expectations... the romance is subtle and slow-moving, and it's barely there... I guess I was expecting fireworks? So I was a tiny bit disappointed. But hey, those were my high expectations, not the book/author's fault. The pacing of this book is soooooooo slow. Like, incredibly so. The first one hundred pages of this book were so so so boring. The writing of this book is great but it really adds to the slowness in the beginning. Once I started getting into the Puck/Sean interactions, I started to get more invested in the story. But this book moves very slowly, in pacing. In terms of actual time, it's very deceptive. I think at least a month passes, but it honestly felt like a week or two. I don't think the author did the best job of conveying the passing of time. But that could be just me! Would I Recommend It: If you've been a part of the YA world of literature, I'm sure you've heard of this book, or at the very least, this author. I can see why people love this book, and why there is so much hype surrounding the author. I did like this book and I would recommend the book if you're like me and had been wanting to read it - it's worth it, if you were already curious! But if you weren't really curious... meh. To me, it was magical and life-changing like I expected. Part of me expected epic action (I saw somewhere that someone compared this book to The Hunger Games? HOW?!), and while I wasn't disappointed that there wasn't any, I wasn't particularly thrilled with the really slow pace of the book. Again, this wasn't magical and life-changing for me. It was good, but not amaaaazing. Rating: 3.5 stars -> rounded up to 4 stars. I enjoyed this book and am glad I finally made myself read it! It was worth sating my curiosity. I can't see myself rereading it for any reason, or singing its praises from the rooftops, but I do see why so many people flipped out (in a good way!) over how awesome they thought the book was. ...more Este libro es una maravilla, si ten\u00e9is la oportunidad de leerlo, lo ten\u00e9is que hacer. Hoy es primero de noviembre, y alguien va a morir. El libro empieza con esta frase y no puedes decir que no te atrapa. Yo lo empec\u00e9 a leer y desde la primera frase me enganch\u00f3. Las Carreras de Escorpio es una novela original ya que los caballos, los capaill uisce que aparecen, son caballos que surgen del mar en una isla y cada a\u00f1o, en noviembre, hay las carreras entre estos caballos especiales. Maggie tiene est Este libro es una maravilla, si ten\u00e9is la oportunidad de leerlo, lo ten\u00e9is que hacer. Hoy es primero de noviembre, y alguien va a morir. El libro empieza con esta frase y no puedes decir que no te atrapa. Yo lo empec\u00e9 a leer y desde la primera frase me enganch\u00f3. Las Carreras de Escorpio es una novela original ya que los caballos, los capaill uisce que aparecen, son caballos que surgen del mar en una isla y cada a\u00f1o, en noviembre, hay las carreras entre estos caballos especiales. Maggie tiene este estilo \u00fanico de hacer cosas tan originales y de una forma tan especial que vivo enamorada de sus libros. Me ha encantado como hizo que una chica se vea tan fuerte entre tantos chicos y la protagonista, Puck, aunque se haya enamorado no cambia como en muchas novelas juveniles, no se vuelve pendiente del chico ni va detr\u00e1s de \u00e9l como casi siempre pasa. Me encant\u00f3 ver a una protagonista fuerte, con ideas claras, muy cabezota, que le importara muy poco arriesgar su vida en unas carreras donde mueren personas por sus hermanos. No s\u00e9, fue incre\u00edble. Sean, el otro protagonista, creo que su desarrollo fue muy genial y aunque la historia va poco a poco pero en ese estilo lento vas descubriendo muchas cosas acabas sabiendo mucho de este incre\u00edble chico. Aunque tuvo una vida muy dura su pasi\u00f3n y amor por su querido capall , Corr, le ha dado fuerzas para seguir adelante. Es incre\u00edble como Maggie consigui\u00f3 plasmar en un libro tan bien el amor y la relaci\u00f3n entre una persona y animales. Creo que si quer\u00e9is leer algo distinto pero sobre animales definitivamente este es vuestro libro. ...more", "Title": "The Scorpio Races"}
