{"Comments": "I have intentionally left a few days between finishing '<+++>Nightwatching</+++>' and writing my review, as the book is one of those rare finds in contemporary literature where I found myself left with an imprint of the characters and plot long after I had switched off my Kindle. However, '<+++>Nightwatching</+++>' was a slow starter - the best analogy I have is to compare the book with an emerging butterfly. The start of the book is when the butterfly is poking its head out of the chrysalis - like the way in which Jo I have intentionally left a few days between finishing 'Nightwatching' and writing my review, as the book is one of those rare finds in contemporary literature where I found myself left with an imprint of the characters and plot long after I had switched off my Kindle. However, 'Nightwatching' was a slow starter - the best analogy I have is to compare the book with an emerging butterfly. The start of the book is when the butterfly is poking its head out of the chrysalis - like the way in which <---A>John Zunski</---A> begins his story slowly, introducing his two main characters Travis and Sondra. He allows the reader to know their secrets bit by bit, although we are aware they are a grieving couple who have lost their young son and have moved to the country amid marital difficulties . . . . As the butterfly starts to push further out its world becomes more interesting - at this stage of the book more characters are introduced - all of whom have more secrets and hidden emotion - and the meaning of the word 'Nightwatcher' is revealed. Travis and Sondra's relationship is further explored and her gambling addiction manifests. By now the butterfly may have pushed its way out enough to start uncurling its wings - and so the plot begins to twist more and in a way that meant I was up past midnight reading, my feelings connected to those of the characters . . . So the butterfly fully emerges and beats its wings to fly away, signifying the last chapters of 'Nightwatching' - and in all honesty my heart would have been beating in time to the butterfly's wings - out of fear! John Zunski had created a climax which,<---M> to me</---M>, was unexpected, horrifying and poignant, and it brought gasps and even a tear. This is a strong story with a very intense plot but I would recommend it to those with a strong heart! LOL! ...<---F>more Nightwatching by John Zunski 4</---F>.5\u2605's From The Book: Do the dead forgive? The question haunts Sondra McAfee. After the death of their three year-old son, Sondra and husband Travis escape Seattle\u2019s society for a fresh start in the mountains of Montana, only to learn what awaits is as horrific as their past. On the fringe of civilization, something sinister lurks within moonlit shadows, preying upon the anguish of tortured souls. Feel Sondra\u2019s isolation in a mountain cabin, the torment of a schizophren Nightwatching by John Zunski 4.5\u2605's From The Book: Do the dead forgive? The question haunts Sondra McAfee. After the death of their three year-old son, Sondra and husband Travis escape Seattle\u2019s society for a fresh start in the mountains of Montana, only to learn what awaits is as horrific as their past. On the fringe of civilization, something sinister lurks within moonlit shadows, preying upon the anguish of tortured souls. Feel Sondra\u2019s isolation in a mountain cabin, the torment of a schizophrenic shut-in, and the desperation of a broken hearted musician as they struggle to overcome personal demons. Together, can they defeat what feeds upon their souls? The answer lies within this tale of horror, betrayal, addiction, and lust. My Thoughts: This sounded perfect and it met a challenge category that I had almost given up on. The book for it's wonderful description...started out really slow. I know the author had to set the stage with the little boys' death and the relocation of Sondra and Travis to the wilds of Montana...but I nearly gave this story up. I am so glad I didn't. It is one of the best horror stories that I have read in a very long time. There's the little boy in the woods that only comes to visit in the full moon and the footprints on Sondra's ceiling. The author brings the horrifying events to a slam - bang climax that may not be good for the weak of heart. ...more Having a day off I picked up John's book and started to read thinking I would take a few hours before I had to get myself outside to start getting wood ready for a rapidly approaching Montana winter, but I find it is now well past mid-night. Its been a long time since I spent a day reading a book cover to cover,(<---B>so to speak.</---B>) Perhaps, living only miles form Nine Mile I found humor in unlikely places, knowing all too well such places and people that are offered up to us in this book. I will be su Having a day off I picked up John's book and started to read thinking I would take a few hours before I had to get myself outside to start getting wood ready for a rapidly approaching Montana winter, but I find it is now well past mid-night. Its been a long time since I spent a day reading a book cover to cover,(so to speak.) Perhaps, living only miles form Nine Mile I found humor in unlikely places, knowing all too well such places and people that are offered up to us in this book. I will be sure to carry a gun the next time I drive up Nine Mile after dark and most certainly when the moon is full. ...more I found that the author has a rather unnecessary sesquipedalian style of writing but is also not descriptive enough.. Does that make sense? Hahah! I found myself re-reading alot of sentences and going back a few pages on occasion, feeling they did not make sense. Over all, I enjoyed this book. Iv been on a hunt to find novels similar to that of Brendan Duffys - house of echoes, and this is as close as I have come. The ending was rather Anticlimactic and seemed rushed.. Horror Travis and Sondra's little boy dies suddenly causing a rift between them. Travis, done with Settles social lite and not wanting to continue to live in the same house his child died in convinces Sondra to move into the deep woods of Montana. Sondra, bored to death starts reverting to old habits. The footprints on her ceiling don't help either. She looks at them and has dreams of a viscous little boy about her sons age. Between her depression, her gambling, Travis not wanting anything to do w Horror Travis and Sondra's little boy dies suddenly causing a rift between them. Travis, done with Settles social lite and not wanting to continue to live in the same house his child died in convinces Sondra to move into the deep woods of Montana. Sondra, bored to death starts reverting to old habits. The footprints on her ceiling don't help either. She looks at them and has dreams of a viscous little boy about her sons age. Between her depression, her gambling, Travis not wanting anything to do with her, and her schizophrenic neighbor Constance constantly telling her to put a leash on her child she doesn't know which way to turn. Then she meets Trey and feels like she's holding on tight to a wild roller coaster ride. But what about the boy in the woods? He only comes to visit on full moons. Can she escape her home when he arrives and pretend he doesn't exist when he's gone? Nightwatching is a good read. I loved the ending and would like to see a sequel, a few more people should be put in their places! ...more I recieved an advance copy of this book. I thought it was great. Zunski is an exceptional talent.<---C>John Zunski</---C>", "Title": "Nightwatching"},
