{"Comments": "I just finished <+++>Twisted</+++> Memories and I loved it! Kudos to <---A>Jenny</---A> for her undeniable ability to tell a story. From the first paragraph I was unable to put it down. I enjoyed the originality of the story. The relationship between Gianna and Hunter sucked me right in. I was sad it had to end. I'm anxiously waiting for the next installment, and any more amazing stories she can give us. Young Adult and Teen Readers <+++>Twisted</+++> (<---B>A twisted fairy tale novella series</---B>) by Jenny Phillips Reviewed by S. Bree High We start out meeting Gianna during her day to day at Fort Miami HS, being tormented by Bobby Simmons. Bobby is your typical meat head with another agenda. I immediately realized he is a jerk simply because she does not like him.<---F> In saying that</---F>... she has a past that we get glimpses of during the story...as it unfolds it tells more of her story. The reveal is slow paced at times, b Young Adult and Teen Readers Twisted (A twisted fairy tale novella series) by Jenny Phillips Reviewed by S. Bree High We start out meeting Gianna during her day to day at Fort Miami HS, being tormented by Bobby Simmons. Bobby is your typical meat head with another agenda. I immediately realized he is a jerk simply because she does not like him. In saying that... she has a past that we get glimpses of during the story...as it unfolds it tells more of her story. The reveal is slow paced at times, but comes together nicely. I managed to get caught up in the writing style that Jenny uses, and felt like my feet were crunching on broken twigs I enjoyed her descriptive style of writing. Gianna is quiet and shy and rarely allows anyone to see the real her. She hides from her life and does not trust anyone. She only has a relationship with Natalia her sister and her family. She sneaks out to club with her sister in another town. The only place she feels like she can be Gianna. There she allows herself freedom and dreams only of leaving Fort Miami and leaving her past behind. Low and behold though all this changes with the return of Hunter and his sea foam green eyes! Hunter and Gianna share a secret, one she lives with daily and has been tormented with for last seven years. One he has forgotten and she cannot. They were childhood friends, and a day in the woods changed everything. Getting lost on the way home they take a shortcut thru the woods... they stumble across a secret cottage, a mysterious woman. She turned out to be nothing they expected and escaping her, changed everything. What was the mysterious green light? The one Gianna has convinced herself was not even real! Gianna recalls the fear and terror and that day shaped her life, while Hunter's Mother took him and left...why? Why does Hunter's mother dislike Gianna, what really happened in the woods? What did the woman in the cottage do to them? What fragments of memories can she not piece together? As Gianna and Hunter rekindle their friendship and their love story begins, the truth reveals and only leaves them with more unanswered questions. Could it be that woman was a witch and are they really cursed? If so what does that mean and what can they do now? We will have to wait and see.... Overall I enjoyed the book and I am looking forward to finding out where she is going to take us next ...more Young Adult and Teen Readers Twisted (A twisted fairy tale novella series) by Jenny Phillips Reviewed by S. Bree High We start out meeting Gianna during her day to day at Fort Miami HS, being tormented by Bobby Simmons. Bobby is your typical meat head with another agenda. I immediately realized he is a jerk simply because she does not like him. In saying that... she has a past that we get glimpses of during the story...as it unfolds it tells more of her story. The reveal is slow paced at times, b Young Adult and Teen Readers Twisted (A twisted fairy tale novella series) by Jenny Phillips Reviewed by S. Bree High We start out meeting Gianna during her day to day at Fort Miami HS, being tormented by Bobby Simmons. Bobby is your typical meat head with another agenda. I immediately realized he is a jerk simply because she does not like him. In saying that... she has a past that we get glimpses of during the story...as it unfolds it tells more of her story. The reveal is slow paced at times, but comes together nicely. I managed to get caught up in the writing style that Jenny uses, and felt like my feet were crunching on broken twigs I enjoyed her descriptive style of writing. Gianna is quiet and shy and rarely allows anyone to see the real her. She hides from her life and does not trust anyone. She only has a relationship with Natalia her sister and her family. She sneaks out to club with her sister in another town. The only place she feels like she can be Gianna. There she allows herself freedom and dreams only of leaving Fort Miami and leaving her past behind. Low and behold though all this changes with the return of Hunter and his sea foam green eyes! Hunter and Gianna share a secret, one she lives with daily and has been tormented with for last seven years. One he has forgotten and she cannot. They were childhood friends, and a day in the woods changed everything. Getting lost on the way home they take a shortcut thru the woods... they stumble across a secret cottage, a mysterious woman. She turned out to be nothing they expected and escaping her, changed everything. What was the mysterious green light? The one Gianna has convinced herself was not even real! Gianna recalls the fear and terror and that day shaped her life, while Hunter's Mother took him and left...why? Why does Hunter's mother dislike Gianna, what really happened in the woods? What did the woman in the cottage do to them? What fragments of memories can she not piece together? As Gianna and Hunter rekindle their friendship and their love story begins, the truth reveals and only leaves them with more unanswered questions. Could it be that woman was a witch and are they really cursed? If so what does that mean and what can they do now? We will have to wait and see.... Overall I enjoyed the book and I am looking forward to finding out where she is going to take us next ...more Ebook: Twisted Author: Jenny Phillips Fiction, Paranormal, I was given this by the author for an honest review This review may contain spoilers Summary: Gianna\u2019s life has not been easy. She\u2019s merely counted down the days until she can leave Fort Miami, with all the stares and whispers behind. However,<---M> when her childhood friend Hunter returns</---M>, it forces her to face memories she\u2019s tried to forget. But what memories are real and which ones are that of an eight year olds imagination? Hunter doesn\u2019t rememb Ebook: Twisted Author: Jenny Phillips Fiction, Paranormal, I was given this by the author for an honest review This review may contain spoilers Summary: Gianna\u2019s life has not been easy. She\u2019s merely counted down the days until she can leave Fort Miami, with all the stares and whispers behind. However, when her childhood friend Hunter returns, it forces her to face memories she\u2019s tried to forget. But what memories are real and which ones are that of an eight year olds imagination? Hunter doesn\u2019t remember anything from that horrific night. Can Gianna trust someone who seems to have forgotten her once before? Can she put the pieces of that night together before it\u2019s too late and she loses everyone she loves, even if that means believing in something that she\u2019s only faced in her nightmares? Twisted is the first instalment in A Twisted Fairy Tale Novella Series The Review OMG, this had me on the edge of my seat or rather bed, I couldn\u2019t put it down, I stayed up to finish it, there were some real nailbiting moments, what a cliffhanger ending, I am really looking forward to Distorted part 2 in the series, I wanna know what happens, you can\u2019t leave us hanging too long Please Jenny. I love how Hunter and Gianna have found each other again when he returns to town, the fact that he still has not changed towards her, even though the whole town, see\u2019s her as weird, after the incident that ended with Hunter being moved away. This book was very well written, I love how we hear Hunter\u2019s perspective at one point, The characters were very well written, I loved the dynamic between the cousins, Who was the woman in the cottage? Did she die? will she return in book 2? What was the green flash? Was it a spell or something else? I have no problem letting my daughter read this, infact I think she would enjoy it, alot, 6/5 ...more I received this book from the author to give an honest review. Twisted was a wonderful YA read. There was a lot of mystery in this book as far as the memories of Gianna and Hunter. Along with mystery you find teenage love starting. Gianna and Hunter were best friends growing up until something happened one day out in the woods. After that indicnet Hunter's mom moved him out of The Fort. Gone for years with no contact with each other, Hunter comes back! Though out the time that Hunter was gone, Gi I received this book from the author to give an honest review. Twisted was a wonderful YA read. There was a lot of mystery in this book as far as the memories of Gianna and Hunter. Along with mystery you find teenage love starting. Gianna and Hunter were best friends growing up until something happened one day out in the woods. After that indicnet Hunter's mom moved him out of The Fort. Gone for years with no contact with each other, Hunter comes back! Though out the time that Hunter was gone, Gianna kept to herself and was talked about by her classmates they believed her to be a freak. Can they pick up their friendship where it left off? Or will they realize the feelings they have for each other are more than just friends? Gianna is starting to remember bits and pieces of what happened that day, but Hunter does not. Will they ever figure out what truly went down? And why did Hunter and Gianna's mom hide information from that night? There was one part in this book that I wanted to smack Hunter, when he let Bobby pick on Gianna, in front of him. :/ I was like REALLY! You like her but yet you let this guy be rude and you do not stick up for her. GRRRRRRRRRRRRR! Though later on it went into detail on why he didn't stick up for her. Which gave him some brownie points from me. :D My question for the author is this, when will book 2 be coming out? I truly want to read it. The characters and the plot of Twisted was well written, and the cliffhanger at the end my oh my. That definitely gets me to want to read the next book. ...more Twisted by Jenny Phillips A Twisted Fairy Tale Novella Rating 5***** This is one amazing read. Gianna has lived the last 7 years in misery since that day her whole life changed on the woods. Carrying around the secret of what happened that day has weighed on her heart for all these years. The only person who can share this burden with her is Hunter...her best friend who was there. However Hunter now can't remember a thing. Hunter and his parents left town after the incident at the cottage. Now he Twisted by Jenny Phillips A Twisted Fairy Tale Novella Rating 5***** This is one amazing read. Gianna has lived the last 7 years in misery since that day her whole life changed on the woods. Carrying around the secret of what happened that day has weighed on her heart for all these years. The only person who can share this burden with her is Hunter...her best friend who was there. However Hunter now can't remember a thing. Hunter and his parents left town after the incident at the cottage. Now he has suddenly came back to town making the nightmares all that more fresh. He is the epitome of the perfect male now. All grown up and handsome, he has been free from the recurrent nightmares for all these years. Gianna is almost jealous that he has been able to live normally. However she can never stay mad at Hunter or deny him anything. I absolutely love this book. The characters are adorable. The plot just flies by and you reach the end way too quick. I just didn't want this one to end. While much is revealed as the plot unravels, there is still much left for the reader to wonder about and draw you to read the next in the series. This is one of those I will recommend over and over. Generally I don't like novellas, but this one is amazing. Editing and all was excellent as well so I don't have a single complaint or recommendation for this one except hurry up with book 2. ...more I liked Gianna the girl has a fire to her, \"Look if you can't remember what happened in the woods you're lucky! Why try to dredge up bad memories?\" She shook her head. \"Honestly, you wouldn't believe me if I told you anyway!\" I think she at times maybe perhaps, just a little, has to much fire in her, I mean if the girl wanted she could rip your heart out and feed it to the wolves, \"Look Hunter, I don't know you anymore; you don't owe me anything. You're not bound to me by some childhood code. Le I liked Gianna the girl has a fire to her, \"Look if you can't remember what happened in the woods you're lucky! Why try to dredge up bad memories?\" She shook her head. \"Honestly, you wouldn't believe me if I told you anyway!\" I think she at times maybe perhaps, just a little, has to much fire in her, I mean if the girl wanted she could rip your heart out and feed it to the wolves, \"Look Hunter, I don't know you anymore; you don't owe me anything. You're not bound to me by some childhood code. Let's just both move on with our lives.\" Hunter I adored in some situations like this one, \"I'm glad you're giving me a second chance,\" Gianna smiled, but he didn't look up from her hair. \"I'm glad to hear there weren't any boyfriends too.\" Then there were other times I wanted to hit him side the head: \"You just watched while he humiliated me,\" she spat the words like venom and spun on her heels heading home. \"Gianna!\" Hunter started after her again. \"Just go back with all the other jock douche bags, that's where you're wanted.\" Then once again there were the times I adores him, \"Oh, don't play stupid look at you! That boy's following you around ready to rip off the head of the first guy who talks to you.\" I'm not sure if I'm Team Hunter yet, let's see if the second book can persuade me. ...more First off Thank you , Thank you Jenny for \u201c GIFTING \u201c me with Twisted in exchange for a fair and unbiased review. Here it goes. CHARGE !!! * Little soulfyre raises hands high above head yelling at top of lungs and dashes forward into book. * Twisted is a very in depth , descriptive, and enjoyable read, the characters are so well written that your brought into the story right along with them, and you find yourself experiencing everything they go thru. I love a book and author that does that , mak First off Thank you , Thank you Jenny for \u201c GIFTING \u201c me with Twisted in exchange for a fair and unbiased review. Here it goes. CHARGE !!! * Little soulfyre raises hands high above head yelling at top of lungs and dashes forward into book. * Twisted is a very in depth , descriptive, and enjoyable read, the characters are so well written that your brought into the story right along with them, and you find yourself experiencing everything they go thru. I love a book and author that does that , makes the reading more fun. The story has a great twisting plot that keeps you on edge and wanting to find out what\u2019s next. The scenes are very well thought out and written that I had no trouble reading and understanding what\u2019s going on and what\u2019s happening to the characters in this fantastically written book. I can\u2019t wait for the next novella to come out. The first book drew me in, now I\u2019m impatiently waiting for # 2. If you haven\u2019t gotten your hands on Twisted yet. What are you waiting for? Someone to hand you a hand written personal invite. Get a move on,go get your copy you\u2019ll love it. I know I did!!! It\u2019s a fun and enjoyable read that will have you saying No! What that\u2019s the last page, but It felt like I just started it when it\u2019s been hours later. Recommend: YA Rating: 5/5 Soul stars Soulfyre Reviews ...more I received \u201cTwisted\u201d as a first reads GIFT from Jenny herself, and was so beside myself that I was one of the first ones to get the chance to read her latest book. To follow is my fair and unbiased opinion of Twisted #1 (A Twisted Fairy Tale) PHENOMENAL, Author Jenny Phillips continues to amaze and astound me with her unique writing style as I started to read this novella. With yet another outstanding book under her belt, this book takes you\u2026 yes, on a twisted dark journey as you dash through the I received \u201cTwisted\u201d as a first reads GIFT from Jenny herself, and was so beside myself that I was one of the first ones to get the chance to read her latest book. To follow is my fair and unbiased opinion of Twisted #1 (A Twisted Fairy Tale) PHENOMENAL, Author Jenny Phillips continues to amaze and astound me with her unique writing style as I started to read this novella. With yet another outstanding book under her belt, this book takes you\u2026 yes, on a twisted dark journey as you dash through the pages, one after another. A storyline with (2) main characters gripping you by your own hand, making sure that they\u2019re not letting you go!!! Gianna is so amazing, then her childhood friend Hunter, who returns after eight years to Fort Miami, and back into her life will pull you through his part in this story\u2026 simply spellbinding. I absolutely loved \u201cTwisted\u201d, and if you haven\u2019t had the chance to read this novella yet, then I HIGHLY recommend that you snag your copy fast\u2026.. You also will love it. NOTE; Jenny I have one question for you. When is #2 in this awesome series going to be in our hot little hands, because frankly I myself am already chomping at the bit to read it\u2026 Recommend: YA Rating: 5/5 angel stars Angel Anne Reviews ...more I was very lucky to be asked by the author to review this novella for her as I absolutely loved it! If you are looking for a quick read filled with mystery, romance and suspense then Twisted is the book for you! The plot of this book was insane! It was so amazing and it had me on the edge of my seat! I couldn't wait to get to certain points in the book where we learned a little bit more about it! The characters in this book were so great! Gianna was the main character and I really liked her! I f I was very lucky to be asked by the author to review this novella for her as I absolutely loved it! If you are looking for a quick read filled with mystery, romance and suspense then Twisted is the book for you! The plot of this book was insane! It was so amazing and it had me on the edge of my seat! I couldn't wait to get to certain points in the book where we learned a little bit more about it! The characters in this book were so great! Gianna was the main character and I really liked her! I felt so sorry for her as she could remember the mystery night but Hunter couldn't! I adored Hunter! He was the love interest and former best friend of Gianna! I loved that Twisted was written from Gianna and Hunter's point of views as I got to go inside Hunter's head and see his feelings for Gianna and also what he remembered about that mystery night! The ending! OMG! The ending! It nearly had me in tears! It was amazing and I cannot wait to read the next book in this series! The cover also is so beautiful as it makes so much more sense to you after you have read the book! This review can also be found here: http://bookcrazy123.blogspot.co.uk/20... ...more I wanted to read something before bed . . . something I could finish in one sitting. I bought this for 99 cents the other day and the ratings were incredibly high, so I figured I'd give it a shot. (Plus, I absolutely love almost anything related to fairy tales.) First, this is not a novella. It is a novel broken up into smaller pieces so it can be sold separately . . . or so it could be sold before it was completed. Second, the ratings are highly misleading. The entire thing needs to be thoroughly I wanted to read something before bed . . . something I could finish in one sitting. I bought this for 99 cents the other day and the ratings were incredibly high, so I figured I'd give it a shot. (Plus, I absolutely love almost anything related to fairy tales.) First, this is not a novella. It is a novel broken up into smaller pieces so it can be sold separately . . . or so it could be sold before it was completed. Second, the ratings are highly misleading. The entire thing needs to be thoroughly edited - for form and content. The writing is pretty juvenile and the typos just made me cringe. I know it's geared toward a young adult audience, but I've read several young adult books that were fabulously written. This is not one of them, which is a shame because the story was interesting and has a lot of potential. I would like to know what happens next, but at the moment, I'm just not invested enough to spend even another 99 cents on the next book in the series. ...more I recieved Twisted from the author for free in exchange for an honest review.... I loved this novella!!! It sucked me in right from page one. With G having to go thru ridicule and taunting by the other kids in her neighborhood for something that wasn't her fault when her and Hunter were little kids. Hunter having to move RIGHT after the incident didn't help the cause of it not being their fault either. They were both there, but only G remembers what happened because she had to stay in the same pla I recieved Twisted from the author for free in exchange for an honest review.... I loved this novella!!! It sucked me in right from page one. With G having to go thru ridicule and taunting by the other kids in her neighborhood for something that wasn't her fault when her and Hunter were little kids. Hunter having to move RIGHT after the incident didn't help the cause of it not being their fault either. They were both there, but only G remembers what happened because she had to stay in the same place and had to hear the story over and over. In high school where the story takes place now Hunter comes back and memories start to slowly come back... As they come back he is also trying to win her love. Something that he's always been trying to do. I really liked how this one pulled the characters together. It was very well paced, I just wish it was LONGER but then it wouldn't be called a novella now would it? :) ...more giana has kept to herself ever since that day seven years ago that turned her world upside down. her bestfriend moved away without so much as a goodbuy. giana was heart broken. teased constantly at school she tried hard to make sure no one really noticed her. then hunter comes back in her life. hes grown but one look in his eyes and she sees the boy she once was so close to. hunters memories of that awful day are somehow missing and giana feels like shes alone again. she felt a little better kno giana has kept to herself ever since that day seven years ago that turned her world upside down. her bestfriend moved away without so much as a goodbuy. giana was heart broken. teased constantly at school she tried hard to make sure no one really noticed her. then hunter comes back in her life. hes grown but one look in his eyes and she sees the boy she once was so close to. hunters memories of that awful day are somehow missing and giana feels like shes alone again. she felt a little better knowing that he at least had shared in her misery even though they were so far apart so at finding out he didn't remember.. well you get the gist. giana and hunter struggle a bit to get back some of the closeness they shared as children. when giana takes hunter back to the scene of the accident things start to feel off and this is where the story ends. for now. darn cliffhangers. I'm starting to loathe these darn cliffhangers but dang if they don't draw me to read the next book. :) ...more I received this book in exchange for a honest review ~WaAr~ CRAP!!! What an ending and cliffhanger!! The author has me hook, line, and sinker! Dying to read the next installment of the Twisted Fairy Tale series! The author Jenny Phillips did a wonderful job writing this enthralling book. The story is about Hunter and Gianna who are 10 year old at the time and are late coming home, so they cut through the woods and get lost. They come across a cabin inhabited by a beautiful lady. Skip 7 years later I received this book in exchange for a honest review ~WaAr~ CRAP!!! What an ending and cliffhanger!! The author has me hook, line, and sinker! Dying to read the next installment of the Twisted Fairy Tale series! The author Jenny Phillips did a wonderful job writing this enthralling book. The story is about Hunter and Gianna who are 10 year old at the time and are late coming home, so they cut through the woods and get lost. They come across a cabin inhabited by a beautiful lady. Skip 7 years later, Gianna is still having nightmares about that afternoon when her and Hunter barely escaped. Gianna has been suffering alone for 7 years since Hunter moved away, now out of no where he is back. Can they rekindle their connection? What happened that day at the cabin? What was that eerie green flash they saw? Will she remain an outcast? What a BOOK! Loved it! I give it a 5 star review!! ...more I really enjoyed this book. My tastes tend to steer towards more adult themed books, it didn't take away from what a good on this was. The story was great. Young girl struggling with high school bullies, her best friend who left 7 years ago returns. They reconnect and battle with the nightmare that tore them apart. It was a great little read and has a fantastic cliff hanger! I think a lot of young adult readers would enjoy and maybe even feel a connection with the likable characters in this book I really enjoyed this book. My tastes tend to steer towards more adult themed books, it didn't take away from what a good on this was. The story was great. Young girl struggling with high school bullies, her best friend who left 7 years ago returns. They reconnect and battle with the nightmare that tore them apart. It was a great little read and has a fantastic cliff hanger! I think a lot of young adult readers would enjoy and maybe even feel a connection with the likable characters in this book. The author certainly took some issues of today and weaved it into the story in a way that you can't tell it's there. But addressing the issue all the same. I'm now diving right into the next one now! It's a good clean read, and I'd definitely would recommend it to younger adults! ...more This book may not have been very long, but it told a big story. This was the great YA novella I've read in quite some time. Romance novels/novellas are already complex enough without the added stress to the author of being a YA, There are so many rules and lines you can't cross. This author took the complexity level even one step further by adding a level of the paranormal, and she did it beautifully. Another thing that impressed me was that I couldn't find one flaw in this book. The characters This book may not have been very long, but it told a big story. This was the great YA novella I've read in quite some time. Romance novels/novellas are already complex enough without the added stress to the author of being a YA, There are so many rules and lines you can't cross. This author took the complexity level even one step further by adding a level of the paranormal, and she did it beautifully. Another thing that impressed me was that I couldn't find one flaw in this book. The characters were dimensional and likable, the scenes were crafted in a way that put the reader in the scene with the characters, the flow was perfect, and so was the spelling and grammar. Kudos on a job well done. ...more The concept of \"Twisted\" intrigued me, and I'm very glad that I gave it a try. I really enjoyed reading the story of Gianna and Hunter, and I really loved the supernatural elements woven into the story in believable ways. There were a few parts of the story where I had to suspend disbelief in other ways (for instance, the way the principal divulged medical information about a staffer sort of threw me), and there were a few grammatical things that caught my eye, but these things were minor and di The concept of \"Twisted\" intrigued me, and I'm very glad that I gave it a try. I really enjoyed reading the story of Gianna and Hunter, and I really loved the supernatural elements woven into the story in believable ways. There were a few parts of the story where I had to suspend disbelief in other ways (for instance, the way the principal divulged medical information about a staffer sort of threw me), and there were a few grammatical things that caught my eye, but these things were minor and didn't detract from my ability to enjoy the story. Good work, Ms. Phillips, and I eagerly anticipate the sequel! ...more Firstly I didn't give this book 4 stars for lack of storyline or because it was written badly as a matter of fact it has a brilliant storyline and the way it is written is fantastic. It got 4 stars because honestly the length of this does not do it justice, it actually really does deserve a full length novel. It has all the mystery and drama that a full novel has. I really did like this book and I am not putting down Jenny at all I think she has a real talent of bringing old \"fairy tales\" to life. Firstly I didn't give this book 4 stars for lack of storyline or because it was written badly as a matter of fact it has a brilliant storyline and the way it is written is fantastic. It got 4 stars because honestly the length of this does not do it justice, it actually really does deserve a full length novel. It has all the mystery and drama that a full novel has. I really did like this book and I am not putting down Jenny at all I think she has a real talent of bringing old \"fairy tales\" to life. I will definitely be recommending this book to all my friends and I will be hoping that book 2 dosen't take too long :-) ...more I had been seeing this book mentioned quite a bit in cybespace this weekend. Since the price was right at .99 I let my curiosity get the better of me and I downloaded this book. I can honestly say I don't regret it. Having read it myself I can vouch for the other reviews listed thus far. You will be able to read this book in a couple of hours, but they will be hours that will keep you continually entertained. Think of it as a movie for your mind. I will definitely be reading the second book when I had been seeing this book mentioned quite a bit in cybespace this weekend. Since the price was right at .99 I let my curiosity get the better of me and I downloaded this book. I can honestly say I don't regret it. Having read it myself I can vouch for the other reviews listed thus far. You will be able to read this book in a couple of hours, but they will be hours that will keep you continually entertained. Think of it as a movie for your mind. I will definitely be reading the second book when it's released. ...more This was one of those little gems that kept my attention from beginning to end. It's a short story series, and I really appreciate the fact that more authors are putting these out. Being a writer myself, sometimes I only have time for a quick read and this fit the bill. I completely fell in love with the Hansel and Gretel twist on this story. Gianna and Hunter jump from the page and come to life in your mind. One of my pet peeves is a one dimensional or flat character. Jenny Phillips has breathe This was one of those little gems that kept my attention from beginning to end. It's a short story series, and I really appreciate the fact that more authors are putting these out. Being a writer myself, sometimes I only have time for a quick read and this fit the bill. I completely fell in love with the Hansel and Gretel twist on this story. Gianna and Hunter jump from the page and come to life in your mind. One of my pet peeves is a one dimensional or flat character. Jenny Phillips has breathed life into fresh characters and an amazing twist on an old tale. ...more I loved this book! The story was one that caught me immediately and did not let go. The characters were well-rounded, so I did not have to work to figure out what they were like! Personalities were apparent and fit the story. Format of the story was appropriate. This is the story of two friends who were separated as children and after being reunited, must figure out and deal with something that happened when they were young. An awesome read! This book had me hooked from the beginning to the end. I just could not stop reading once I started. I am in awe of the author and her ability to write a stunning good book, that pulls you in and never lets you go. Even the ending .... has me wanting more. I cannot wait to read part 2 of this one. I want it like yesterday...LOL ... Amazing wonderful story telling!! I am now a huge fan of Jenny Phillips!! LOVE LOVE LOVE Anxiously awaiting book 2. A short novella that can be read in a couple of hours. It\u2019s entertaining, and had me gripped from the start. I loved Hunter and Gianna, their character development as the book goes on is excellent. Fast paced and intriguing, you\u2019ll never want this story to end. Goodreads you let me down. This was the highest rated story in my to-read list, yet the writing was choppy and childlike. Also, what is the point of a cliff-hanging novella? Write the whole story at once and publish it as a novel.<---C>Jenny  Phillips</---C>", "Title": "Twisted"},
