{"Comments": "<+++>The Harem</+++> is a jewel of a book! Reading it and discussing with the author was a delightful experience. Not your \"run of the mill\" erotic romance.<---F> \u00a0It was so much more</---F>. Original, well thought out and intelligently written!!! A beautiful story with a message and definitely food for thought. I enjoyed it and learned from it. Outstanding work from first time novelist, <---A>Thomas Sweeney</---A>. I look forward to more from him. WOW! This is a very powerful story. Some may believe I have a bias opinion because of my role assisting, but this is a story I have never seen before. I've been assisting with the editing for <+++>The Harem</+++> for the last few months. The novel is almost complete and looks like it will be out as scheduled for early December 2014. The journey the main character,<---M> Susan Winthrop aka Wednesday</---M>, embarks on is like none I've ever heard, read or seen in a movie, television or theater. The story gives the impres WOW! This is a very powerful story. Some may believe I have a bias opinion because of my role assisting, but this is a story I have never seen before. I've been assisting with the editing for The Harem for the last few months. The novel is almost complete and looks like it will be out as scheduled for early December 2014. The journey the main character, Susan Winthrop aka Wednesday, embarks on is like none I've ever heard, read or seen in a movie, television or theater. The story gives the impression of a harem, but there are a variety of deep and subtle messages the author has entwined into the characters that goes far beyond the commonly expected concepts, knowledge and beliefs. I have been sucked into Wednesday's life. She starts off as a naive college student who blossoms into a strong, confident, successful and powerful woman who has the ability to influence those around her and the world, even when the Program is called into question by people who fear or do not understand it. This is a must read for all women. However, I do caution parents of teens because of some of the sexual descriptions and content. This is a book that every woman from college through adulthood MUST READ. The Harem will make you look at life differently. The Harem will make you look at the world differently. Every woman in the world has the ability to experience and create a life that Wednesday crafts for herself in the novel. The only question is, are you ready to take your own journey? To the author for the amazing, one-of-a-kind story.... ...more The journey the main character, Susan Winthrop aka Wednesday, embarks on is like none I've ever heard, read or seen in a movie, television or theater. The story gives the impression of a harem, but there are a variety of deep and subtle messages the author has entwined into the characters that goes far beyond the commonly expected concepts, knowledge and beliefs. I have been sucked into Wednesday's life. She starts off as a naive college student who blossoms into a strong, confident, successful a The journey the main character, Susan Winthrop aka Wednesday, embarks on is like none I've ever heard, read or seen in a movie, television or theater. The story gives the impression of a harem, but there are a variety of deep and subtle messages the author has entwined into the characters that goes far beyond the commonly expected concepts, knowledge and beliefs. I have been sucked into Wednesday's life. She starts off as a naive college student who blossoms into a strong, confident, successful and powerful woman who has the ability to influence those around her and the world, even when the Program is called into question by people who fear or do not understand it. This is a must read for all women. However, I do caution parents of teens because of some of the sexual descriptions and content. This is a book that every woman from college through adulthood MUST READ. The Harem will make you look at life differently. The Harem will make you look at the world differently. Every woman in the world has the ability to experience and create a life that Wednesday crafts for herself in the novel. The only question is, are you ready to take your own journey? ...more I LOVED this book!!! It has such a powerful and original plot. The main character Susan(Wednesday) went through so much, and grew into an amazing person. As someone currently in college I believe benefited a lot form an educational stand point with this book. I feel like I grew a little by reading it and taking the journey with her. It got me really thinking, and questioning a lot of things in my life. The character development is so intense and thorough. Seeing how each character grew throughou I LOVED this book!!! It has such a powerful and original plot. The main character Susan(Wednesday) went through so much, and grew into an amazing person. As someone currently in college I believe benefited a lot form an educational stand point with this book. I feel like I grew a little by reading it and taking the journey with her. It got me really thinking, and questioning a lot of things in my life. The character development is so intense and thorough. Seeing how each character grew throughout the story was really amazing. My expectations were completely blown out of the water. I couldn't put it down! I think this book is perfect for anyone, and has the power to inspire many more people just as it has me. P.S. Thomas** I'm very glad you didn't split it up. Long but completely worth it!!(: Thank you. ...more This is just surreal! \u00a0What an amazing compliment to receive! \u00a0Thank you so much, Abby! The Harem is an outstanding novel. Written with so much intrigue, it's hard to put the book down! I was lured into Thomas Sweeney's novel from the beginning. His main character is so easy to relate too that I feel myself in her shoes at times. I can understand her feelings about college lie and getting the internship that she wanted. Her character grows into a beautiful and confident woman. At first she isn't as confident as her best friend but then later blooms into one. I loved reading about h The Harem is an outstanding novel. Written with so much intrigue, it's hard to put the book down! I was lured into Thomas Sweeney's novel from the beginning. His main character is so easy to relate too that I feel myself in her shoes at times. I can understand her feelings about college lie and getting the internship that she wanted. Her character grows into a beautiful and confident woman. At first she isn't as confident as her best friend but then later blooms into one. I loved reading about her character transformation as the wonderful plot unfolded before me. This novel will take you on a whole new adventure unlike any other book before it. The mystery and intrigue will keep readers reading all night long. The romance will be be hot enough and the characters are just dazzling! The Harem is a definitely a must read novel. I loved reading every intoxicating page written by Thomas Sweeney. His talent for writing such a unique book amazes me. I would recommend this book to every reader out there. The Harem is a never before seen novel that readers simply cannot miss out on reading! Overall, this stunning novel is a five out of five stars! ...more Review to come *Copy provided in exchange for an honest review* \"Be proud of the fabric of who you are.\" If I had to choose one single sentence that describes what I learned from this book, that quote would be it. This is a magnificent book and I am so proud to have read it. It's been a long journey but that doesn't mean I enjoyed it any less than I would a short one. This book wasn't only enjoyable, it was truly a learning experience. It's extremely detail oriented and this was one of those rare books that succ *Copy provided in exchange for an honest review* \"Be proud of the fabric of who you are.\" If I had to choose one single sentence that describes what I learned from this book, that quote would be it. This is a magnificent book and I am so proud to have read it. It's been a long journey but that doesn't mean I enjoyed it any less than I would a short one. This book wasn't only enjoyable, it was truly a learning experience. It's extremely detail oriented and this was one of those rare books that successfully painted a picture in my mind without any effort in my part. Thomas' intellect flows into every word and it's difficult not to put him in the same pedestal that Susan puts Robert. This book makes you think from the very first word. It makes you question everything you know, even about yourself. To be honest, I needed this book. If you want your life to be turned on its axis, then this is the book for you. It definitely had a massive impact on me. It goes without saying that this book isn't meant to be read quickly, but to be cherished. Although, I must admit that when I reached the last part of the book, I couldn't flip the pages fast enough. It was so intense and it had me super emotional. The main character journeys through an outstanding development rarely seen in today's books. I was definitely proud of being able to read about it. She's so empowering that I couldn't help but feel the same way. This story will always be close to my heart and even now I feel like a piece of me is missing. I miss it that much. I've got to say, this felt more like an autobiography since a large part of me believed all of it was true. Also, Charles was pretty badass. That man is something else! All I have to say is... where is this Montgomery building and where do I apply? ...more WOW!!!! This is a MUST READ! I LOVED it! 5STARS I was instantly swept into the life of Susan Winthrop (aka Wednesday) and the whirlwind journey of her life. The story kept me captivated the entire time; I had trouble putting the book down because I NEEDED to know what was going to happen next. I could relate to every character in the book in one form or another. My perspective on life has immensely changed for the positive and I'm ever grateful to have read it. This is definitely a story that wil WOW!!!! This is a MUST READ! I LOVED it! 5STARS I was instantly swept into the life of Susan Winthrop (aka Wednesday) and the whirlwind journey of her life. The story kept me captivated the entire time; I had trouble putting the book down because I NEEDED to know what was going to happen next. I could relate to every character in the book in one form or another. My perspective on life has immensely changed for the positive and I'm ever grateful to have read it. This is definitely a story that will be re-read by me! I'm sure that there are many subtle nuances that I have missed. I hope that you take the wonderful journey with Susan Winthrop and that your life is touched in a profound way like mine has been. I will never be the same; for the betterment of myself and those around me. To everyone: WE ARE ONE! ...more So I am not the type of person that reads Romance novels like this so when I decided to read it I was kind of hesitant but something spoke to me about it. After reading the sample off Amazon I was hooked and am now on Chapter 11. This is a very interesting book on many level and really gives you the feeling of being there right in the middle of what is going on. I feel like I am there with Wednesday, the main character, learning what she is learning and growing up along with her. I definitely wo So I am not the type of person that reads Romance novels like this so when I decided to read it I was kind of hesitant but something spoke to me about it. After reading the sample off Amazon I was hooked and am now on Chapter 11. This is a very interesting book on many level and really gives you the feeling of being there right in the middle of what is going on. I feel like I am there with Wednesday, the main character, learning what she is learning and growing up along with her. I definitely would recommend the book and will keep you updated as you go along. P.S. Good jobs on the cliff hangers that happen through out the story, you think the book is over for a second, wondering how this is going to work out, then BAM!! its back on track lol. ...more WOW!!!! This is a MUST READ! I LOVED it! 5STARS I was instantly swept into the life of Susan Winthrop (aka Wednesday) and the whirlwind journey of her life. The story kept me captivated the entire time; I had trouble putting the book down because I NEEDED to know what was going to happen next. I could relate to every character in the book in one form or another. My perspective on life has immensely changed for the positive and I'm ever grateful to have read it. This is definitely a story that wil WOW!!!! This is a MUST READ! I LOVED it! 5STARS I was instantly swept into the life of Susan Winthrop (aka Wednesday) and the whirlwind journey of her life. The story kept me captivated the entire time; I had trouble putting the book down because I NEEDED to know what was going to happen next. I could relate to every character in the book in one form or another. My perspective on life has immensely changed for the positive and I'm ever grateful to have read it. This is definitely a story that will be re-read by me! I'm sure that there are many subtle nuances that I have missed. I hope that you take the wonderful journey with Susan Winthrop and that your life is touched in a profound way like mine has been. I will never be the same; for the betterment of myself and those around me. To everyone: WE ARE ONE! Even better the second time around! :) ...more I want to start off by saying that this book was fantastic. Now, I hate comparing it to 50 shades of gray because 50 shades of gray was a demeaning book. 50 shades of graymade me feel bad about myself as a female. This book has a erotic seems like 50 shades of gray, but they're not painful to read. I don't feel bad about myself reading this book. I feel empowered. Which is completely unlike 50 shades of gray. If you want some an erotic scenes in a book that has a really good story, this is the b I want to start off by saying that this book was fantastic. Now, I hate comparing it to 50 shades of gray because 50 shades of gray was a demeaning book. 50 shades of graymade me feel bad about myself as a female. This book has a erotic seems like 50 shades of gray, but they're not painful to read. I don't feel bad about myself reading this book. I feel empowered. Which is completely unlike 50 shades of gray. If you want some an erotic scenes in a book that has a really good story, this is the book for you. I don't want to say too much. I'll start off by saying that there's a girl named Susan/Wednesday who has had a pretty tough life. She was an orphan and she is now enrolled in college. Her story is amazing, and this book is written so well. It is completely worth the read!! ...more Had the honor of reading this book as a book of the month....along with the author! The insights from the direct source made my reading experience a joy! Thank you, Tom...and your lovely co-host Martha! I started reading this book with a certain mindset but by the end all of my assumptions went out the window! The Harem completely blew me away with its ideals...and I came away loving the characters and the \"education\" I received! The characters? In our group read many of us associated with one or m Had the honor of reading this book as a book of the month....along with the author! The insights from the direct source made my reading experience a joy! Thank you, Tom...and your lovely co-host Martha! I started reading this book with a certain mindset but by the end all of my assumptions went out the window! The Harem completely blew me away with its ideals...and I came away loving the characters and the \"education\" I received! The characters? In our group read many of us associated with one or more of the ladies...each had a distinct role and personality. (I even gave each my own nickname because I was so charmed by them!) If you want to get lost in a World within our own World...I highly recommend this book!! ...more I am revising my review of this book. The Harem is a must read. Mysterious, romantic and erotic with characters who are interesting and intriguing. The book is well written and the storyline will surprise you on many levels. This authors first book is a definite winner. I am looking forward to reading the next book in this series. Inspiring, Exciting & Captivating!!! I Truly Loved It!!! This book really disappointed me. The author took a great premise and totally skull-fucked it. I mean, why does The Harem need to be a fucking cult? Why can't it just be about a bunch of filthy whores? Everyone loves filthy whores. You don't need to make 'em shiny. You don't need flowers and champagne. All you need is hot ass. This story is an attempt to make prostitution look like the most glamorous and exciting profession. It's about a woman who takes an internship at a large corporation. And a This book really disappointed me. The author took a great premise and totally skull-fucked it. I mean, why does The Harem need to be a fucking cult? Why can't it just be about a bunch of filthy whores? Everyone loves filthy whores. You don't need to make 'em shiny. You don't need flowers and champagne. All you need is hot ass. This story is an attempt to make prostitution look like the most glamorous and exciting profession. It's about a woman who takes an internship at a large corporation. And apparently, she's special, because she gets offered an opportunity to enter the Program. You know, the Slut Program. But Susan is no floozey. She takes offense at the mere suggestion of becoming a whore. I mean, who wouldn't? Even if the position within the Program would set her up for life financially, it's still selling your body for cash. Even if it's a million dollars, which it actually is, it's still sucking dick for money. Even if it means getting eaten out by the most handsome man, and cumming like a fucking race horse, it's still... Oh fuck it. She'll totally do it. I don't get this bit. She's so against the idea, and yet a page later she accepts it, and joins the program. I guess all women are whores, when it comes down to it. Is that what this author is trying to say? I mean, he does make the whole proposition very attractive. I'd join the Program in a fucking heart beat. But I'm a guy. All guys are whores. But women? I don't know, man. I just expected more of a process for Susan to accept this new position in the Program. I expected her to really wrestle with the idea. Maybe take a bit of convincing. But no. It's just \"Okay, sure. Sign me up. Even though I just called you a fucking cunt for suggesting the idea a page ago.\" What the fuck, man? Then there's the whole cult thing. The ceremony of becoming part of the Program. Part of the Harem. But why is there a fucking ceremony, man? Just fuck the bitch, and be done with it. Why do you have to eat her out and make her cum over and over? You're paying her millions to be part of your harem, so why the bloody fuck do you have to pamper the fuck out of her? I don't get it. Maybe it's because this book was written for women. I mean, it has to be, right? What man would want to read this garbage? After the ceremony, Susan is given a new name. It's 'Wednesday'. Like she's the fuck-girl for every Wednesday, or something. I thought that was kind of cool. But the rest of the harem are also named for days of the week. And they just accept this with no resistance. Yes, I'm Robert's whore for Wednesday. No problem. But they're not just whores. They also work his international business. And this is funny, because when Robert introduces his play things to business associates, he introduces them by the name he's given them. \"Hi, George, this is Wednesday.\" That's a bit strange, isn't it? Then he introduces the rest of them, each as a different name of the week. I get using those names in private, but in public, it doesn't make any fucking sense. And then there's the mind-control. Yes, Robert's whores learn how to use mind-control and remote viewing, and astral-projection, and all that hippy bullshit. And they use these powers for evil. To go all Inception on some business associates, by planting ideas in their heads and such. In the end, these were great skills to master, because Robert gets arrested for his evil deeds, and his girls get him off (heh, they got him off) by manipulating the minds of the judges. Nice. But why'd this story have to go all super-natural? Why couldn't they just be whores, goddamnit? There's just no reason for all that hippy nonsense. I don't get it. It must be because I'm not a woman. I've only got man-titties, and they're just not cutting it. I didn't like this story. In fact, at times, I hated it. Because it just pissed me off. It took a perfectly good idea and totally destroyed it. Why, man? It just made no sense to me. Most of the story was just boring business bullshit. And happy happy joy joy girly shit. No conflict, whatsoever. I'd highly recommend this book to women. It's a perfect fantasy book for women. But I'd strongly advise men to stay the hell away from this piece of shit of a book. Because it's a complete fucking waste of time. I can't even jack off to this shit, and I can jack off to just about anything. ...more First: I feel bad for giving it 4 stars u.u... But as my rating says, I really liked it! I'll list what I loved because I'm not that fluent in my writing: *I loved that this was not the typical erotic novel and it definitely was not what I envisioned in my mind. *I loved that the characters were not crazy, psychotic, stalkerish or possesive. THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT . * Robert, Robert, Robert... Mr. Robert Montgomery is: and I'm not saying this because of how amazing in bed he is, or his money or how ho First: I feel bad for giving it 4 stars u.u... But as my rating says, I really liked it! I'll list what I loved because I'm not that fluent in my writing: *I loved that this was not the typical erotic novel and it definitely was not what I envisioned in my mind. *I loved that the characters were not crazy, psychotic, stalkerish or possesive. THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT . * Robert, Robert, Robert... Mr. Robert Montgomery is: and I'm not saying this because of how amazing in bed he is, or his money or how hot he is. We are talking about a gentleman here. A real man. He's not damaged, possesive or a stalker (I have no idea why people feel attracted to that). He treats women with respect, it feels like he really appreciates and cherish them and, as I mentioned before, is a real gentleman, in and outside the bedroom ;). *Susan (Wednesday) is a character that has an actual growth and development throughout the whole story. I loved the way she builded her life and how she was focused in interesting matters and not just in chasing a man. * Love is not labeled in this story. It flows naturally, feels real, it is what it is and that's a beautiful thing. *The orgy and f/f time It was my first time reading scenes like those and, in my opinion, they were really well written. *The end! I loved the end of the story. Again, THANK YOU because it wasn't the typical boring HEA. *More than being an erotic book for the senses, it's erotic for your subconscient. For the mind. It's a powerful story that will change you way of think and seeing things. One of the reasons why it didn't reach the 5 stars (for me) I hope I don't sound like a pervy or dumb is because I wanted more steamy scenes. Also,I must say that I consider myself an open minded person and I respect peoples believes whatever they are, but I had a hard time in understanding and accepting Wednesday's abilities. Other than that, The Harem is a breath of fresh air, it's unique, original, powerful, changing, positive and inspiring. A wonderful debut of Thomas Swenney. Thank you to the author for the copy I received in exchange of my honest opinion. ...more I received a free copy of this book to review for a book club I am in here on Goodreads, Readers Addict. I really enjoyed this book. I wasn't sure about it at first but as I got further into the book the more I liked it. I liked the positive influences the Program had on the girls. Some scenes were a bit intense but not as bad as I thought they may be. I also like that it was set in the future. There were a few typos throughout the book. These bothered me since I am an English major. I recommend t I received a free copy of this book to review for a book club I am in here on Goodreads, Readers Addict. I really enjoyed this book. I wasn't sure about it at first but as I got further into the book the more I liked it. I liked the positive influences the Program had on the girls. Some scenes were a bit intense but not as bad as I thought they may be. I also like that it was set in the future. There were a few typos throughout the book. These bothered me since I am an English major. I recommend this book to people who enjoyed Fifty Shades of Grey. ...more This is such a great book,! The characters are ppl you can relate to. This book made us use our brains to think and use common sense by looking at the picture as a whole not just by what someone says. The characters show warmth and strength and even forgiveness and can stay focused in a storm. Jim and I got some Great conversations out of this. Overall we just so enjoyed reading this book, and got some great lessons out of it. The Harem Rocks!!! ok, so for starters, I truly enjoyed the book. My only gripe was that I felt some things were overly explained, like the scene or Susan (Wednesday) thoughts (I prefer to not have it thoroughly explained to me, I like to come up with my own ideas of the scene) Also we never find out how old Robert is or much about him. I felt the first half was a little slow for my taste but once it got going I couldn't stop reading it. All in all it was a refreshing read. Two thumbs up. I really enjoyed The Harem. I know that I am extremely late in providing what I thought about the book, but I had personal reasons. Anyway, those of you who haven't read Thomas Sweeney's book need to get a copy. I could not put it down in between school work and my personal stuff. Loved this book!! Wow! This book is definitely epic! It has so many points I have to organize myself. 1) The plot is well developed. There's a flow to the writing that is so professional I'm surprised this is the first book from this author. 2) The characters are greatly well rounded. There's a flawless amount of personality in all the people! It can be hard to assign a face to every name in a book but Thomas gave individuality to each and every character! He made it easy to follow yet intriguing! 3) The scenery I Wow! This book is definitely epic! It has so many points I have to organize myself. 1) The plot is well developed. There's a flow to the writing that is so professional I'm surprised this is the first book from this author. 2) The characters are greatly well rounded. There's a flawless amount of personality in all the people! It can be hard to assign a face to every name in a book but Thomas gave individuality to each and every character! He made it easy to follow yet intriguing! 3) The scenery In the book is vivid! I actually have a very active imagination so I don't usually need too much detail but with The Harem I think it fit just right! You can see EVERYTHING and feel EVERYTHING this author was harboring in his mind! 4) The erotic points in the book were amazing! There was a harmony to all the interactions! I made the mistake of reading one in public, though... lol maybe don't do that. I was red in the face during my wait in line for coffee. 5) The ending is incredible and worth the journey!!!! This was a brilliant read but I will warn you, it's a challenging read. What I mean is it's not a typical story it's more a theory, idea, debate...etc. it's meant to make you stop and think. If you don't stay open minded you might miss the art behind it. Agreeing with all the points in a book isn't what makes it a five star, it's the delivery. This is a five star because whether you agree with it all or not, it's delivered as a masterpiece and it makes you ponder. Such is a good book's job! ...more The Harem - Thomas Sweeney (5 Stars ) A Fascinating , well Written book about Female Empowerment ........WE ARE ONE !!! My amazon Review link Below...... https://www.amazon.com/review/R1L4YAL... I didn't finished. I only read about %31 I was bored my head off. Very slow spaced too much bla bla bla, I have lost interest<---C>Thomas Sweeney</---C>", "Title": "The Harem"},
