{"Comments": "<---A>Irvine Welsh</---A> has always been an author that I have wanted to read, but he always seemed to sit on the backburner. I have Trainspotting on my bookshelf and I\u2019m sure I\u2019ll get to it eventually. His new novel <+++>The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins</+++> seemed like just the right amount of filth and bizarreness for me at the time. The novel kicks off questioning American\u2019s obsession with numbers,<---M> from statistics</---M>, ratings, western culture seems to measure everything with numbers. From crime rates, percentages to e Irvine Welsh has always been an author that I have wanted to read, but he always seemed to sit on the backburner. I have Trainspotting on my bookshelf and I\u2019m sure I\u2019ll get to it eventually. His new novel <+++>The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins</+++> seemed like just the right amount of filth and bizarreness for me at the time. The novel kicks off questioning American\u2019s obsession with numbers, from statistics, ratings, western culture seems to measure everything with numbers. From crime rates, percentages to economical values to shoe and breast sizes; everything is about numbers. This sets up the protagonist, personal trainer Lucy Brennan, who obsessively records everything, from her calories, her exercise and every aspect of her life, as well as those she trains. Set in the image obsessed Miami, The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins tells the story of Lucy who heroically disarms a gunman who was chasing down two homeless men. This was witnessed and recorded by the sole eyewitness, Lena Sorensen. Lucy\u2019s act of heroism transforms her into an insta-celeb with national exposure, giving her the break she has been looking for. Lena becomes obsessed with Lucy and signs up as one of her clients. The two find themselves getting closer, too close for comfort. I officially believe that all personal trainers are sadists; however Lucy takes this to a whole new level. She goes from strict personal trainer to scary crazy in the efforts to get Lena into shape. Reading this novel reminds me never to get a trainer; I don\u2019t think I can handle the efforts one might go to, to get me into shape. I won\u2019t go into details; the whole concept of fitness and eating healthy within this novel is worth exploring without any spoilers. In an interesting twist, it turns out that the two frightened men Lucy saves from the angry gunman turned out to be paedophiles. The media focus quickly shifts from heroine to whether she should have stopped a victim of sex abuse from getting his revenge. Would she have acted differently if she knew the reason? It is no longer a story about bravery and heroics but one of pain and vengeance. I read this novel as a caper that quickly spiralled out of control. Irvine Welsh was able to produce very unique acerbic characters, all vastly different from each other, with their own little quirks and flaws. Lucy a militant personal trainer, we get to watch her stardom rise and fall and Lena an avant-garde sculptor who is a shy talent with a dark side that comes through mainly in her art. I get the impression that Welsh likes to explore the darker side of humanity. While I tend to enjoy transgressive fiction I was finding some issues within this novel that I will try to explain. Irvine Welsh doesn\u2019t hold back; Lucy Brennan is a hard hitting, foul-mouthed, aggressive woman; an anti-hero that I can\u2019t help wondering if she is realistic. She claims to be a feminist but comes across almost like a misogynist, rather than just an angry bitch. I increasingly began to see her less as a female protagonist and more as Welsh\u2019s fantasy of the ideal woman. His own masculinity seems to come through in this character and she comes across as a slutty bi-sexual that has the libido and personality of a teenage boy. That is not to say that there aren\u2019t women like that out in the world; for me, her personality never rung true. I was never sure how to take Lucy; she started off as a strong willed, fitness freak with no social filter and a mouth and sex drive that is unmatched. These people obviously do exist in the world and I tried to take her seriously but as the novel went on it become harder and harder to suspend my disbelief. She became less of a character in the novel and more the voice that satirizes Irvine Welsh\u2019s own soapbox views. Lean Sorensen is far more interesting; she comes across as timid but talented artist but she doesn\u2019t see that. She views herself the same way the world does, as just a pathetic overweight woman. Whether it is the manipulative ex-boyfriend, the passive aggressive parents or the fake friends of the art world, she is depicted as a broken woman trying to get her life together. I enjoyed the darkness that came through under the perky and cheerful facade that she tries to put on; it really rounded out the character. She kept my interest throughout the novel. The title The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins is an interesting topic as it refers to a subplot about the media frenzy around two conjoined teens, Annabel and Amy. Annabel is considering losing her virginity to her boyfriend but Amy is not too keen on this idea. A conversation about the twins and their sex lives is a reoccurring conversation/argument between Lucy and Lena. They have differing views about sex and the conjoined twins and often the focus of their personality clash. I have to mention the morning pages program that mentioned throughout this novel. It is a program where you must write three pages in a stream of consciousness format every morning. The idea of this program is to help identify issues that need extra attention while trying to achieve their goal, in this example weight loss. Morning pages interested me because it was the concept that inspired 750words.com a site I\u2019ve been using to develop a good writing habit. In the pursuit for perfection, things get dark and twisted; The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins explores this very topic. A novel of depravity, revenge, sex and crime, Welsh gives the reader plenty to think about and if you can suspend your disbelief when it comes to Lucy, this book really is extremely rewarding. Be warned there is a lot of swearing and sex, not for the sweet and innocent. The sex has a voyeuristic approach to it, not erotic at all and often disturbing. In the end, this novel was a rewarding endeavour into transgressive fiction but I need something sweet to read next. This review originally appeared on my blog; http://literary-exploration.com/2014/... ...more When Lucy Brennan, a Miami Beach personal-fitness trainer, disarms a gunman chasing two frightened homeless men, the police and the breaking-news cameras are not far behind and, within hours, Lucy is a media hero. The solitary eye-witness is the depressed and overweight Lena Sorensen, who becomes obsessed with Lucy and signs up as her client \u2013 though she seems more interested in the trainer\u2019s body than her own. When the two women find themselves more closely aligned, and can\u2019t stop thinking abou When Lucy Brennan, a Miami Beach personal-fitness trainer, disarms a gunman chasing two frightened homeless men, the police and the breaking-news cameras are not far behind and, within hours, Lucy is a media hero. The solitary eye-witness is the depressed and overweight Lena Sorensen, who becomes obsessed with Lucy and signs up as her client \u2013 though she seems more interested in the trainer\u2019s body than her own. When the two women find themselves more closely aligned, and can\u2019t stop thinking about the sex lives of Siamese twins, the real problems start\u2026 Superficially Lucy and Lena couldn\u2019t really be more different. Lucy is toned and trim with a sharp tongue and an extrovert nature. Her foul mouth and gung-ho attitude towards life seems like the perfect tools to navigate life in the self-obsessed environment of Miami Beach.<---F> Lena meanwhile is the polar opposite</---F>. Overweight, introspective and shy she hides away from the world. Where Lucy appears confident and strong, Lena is weak willed and easily lead. A chance meeting brings the two together and it\u2019s not long before they both realise that appearances can be more than a little deceptive. I love the way that Welsh\u2019s characters often verge on the very cusp of the grotesque, but he never allows them to cross that line. He is such a keen observer of humanity and seems to be able to get to the very core of all his characters with ease. Both Lucy and Lena are riddled with flaws but that\u2019s what makes them so compelling. It makes them come across as realistic and human. Certain aspects of the characters remind me of people that I\u2019ve met before. When it comes to fiction, flawed protagonists are always fascinating to follow, and in The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins the reader is spoiled for choice. The better Lucy gets to know Lena, the darker the story becomes. There are a series of chapters where Lena recalls her history and they offer real insight into how events in her life have shaped everything about her and her world-view. From her upbringing in a small town, through her time in art school, right up until the moment where she and Lucy first meet; all of these moments leave their mark. As events begin to spiral out of each woman\u2019s control, Welsh uses the paradigm shifts in their relationship to explore modern attitudes towards everything from sex and death, to celebrity culture, body image and religion. Fiction that challenges pre-conceived notions and demands introspection really doesn\u2019t come much better than this. I remember way back in the early 90s and the first time I cracked open a copy of Trainspotting, though I was born and grew up only fifty miles away from where the novel was set this was a completely alien world to me. I\u2019d never read anything like it, and I was utterly stunned by how emotive and thought provoking Welsh\u2019s work was. His writing has continued to display that same self-assured confrontational edge over the years. Time has not diminished this author\u2019s ferocious passion one iota. I loved his writing back then and I still love it now. As is always the case with a new Irvine Welsh novel things are unashamedly adult. I\u2019d imagine there are those who think Welsh\u2019s use of adult language, sex and violence are too extreme but I\u2019d disagree. Yes, sometimes there are scenes that can, in isolation, be viewed as shocking, but within the context of the story they are entirely appropriate and are necessary to move the plot forward. Welsh doesn\u2019t ever pull his punches. He lets the reader make up their own mind and draw their own conclusions, it\u2019s the thing I\u2019ve always found most enjoyable about his work. He doesn\u2019t pander to anyone he writes from the heart and it shows. Overall, I found The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins to be mind-bendingly good stuff. The writing dissects every 21st century obsession you could name with a critical flair. There is no aspect of modern society that escapes the author\u2019s steely gaze. Nowadays, it often feels like we exist in a multimedia bubble and Welsh plays with that fact, using it as the basis for his entire narrative. In a world where fame has become an addictive commodity, the big question this novel asks is at what cost? The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins is published by Jonathan Cape Ltd and available from 1st May 2014. ...more Let me begin by saying that Irvine Welsh is my favourite writer of the last 25 years. I was blown away by Trainspotting, The Acid House, Ecstasy, Glue and Filth. I didn\u2019t particularly enjoy Marabou Stork Nightmares but I could appreciate its ambition and power\u2026it haunts me still. I loved Porno, but after that he started to seem a tad jaded. If You Enjoyed School You\u2019ll Love Work was trying too hard. The Bedroom Secrets of the Master Chefs was a confused mess. And Crime left me cold (with too muc Let me begin by saying that Irvine Welsh is my favourite writer of the last 25 years. I was blown away by Trainspotting, The Acid House, Ecstasy, Glue and Filth. I didn\u2019t particularly enjoy Marabou Stork Nightmares but I could appreciate its ambition and power\u2026it haunts me still. I loved Porno, but after that he started to seem a tad jaded. If You Enjoyed School You\u2019ll Love Work was trying too hard. The Bedroom Secrets of the Master Chefs was a confused mess. And Crime left me cold (with too much riding on a late-revealed traumatic childhood to explain a dysfunctional adult \u2013 ground he\u2019d already covered so brilliantly with Bruce Robertson in Filth. There was a brief return to form with Skag Boys \u2013 Begbie in particular was breathtaking in that reprise \u2013 so I looked forward to Irvine\u2019s next effort confident that he\u2019d rediscovered his edge. Alas, he has not. The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins is an almost colour-by-numbers attempt to counterpoint the evolving relationship of two women (one fit, one fat) with the developing media fascination with a pair of conjoined twins who want different things in their lives. It was pretty hard for me to get into the story \u2013 mainly because I didn\u2019t like (or believe) the main character \u2013 Lucy. She seemed to have the same voice as the increasingly coke-psychotic Sick Boy from the second half of Porno, and the only reason I knew she was a woman was because she kept saying so (despite her unrelenting misogyny). Neither did I believe the other main character (Lena) \u2013 especially her true sexual orientation which is conveniently revealed towards the end. I especially did not believe the major turning point that happens about halfway through. Stranger things have happened, of course, but there needed to be at least some vague foreshadowing that such was possible to make it believable when it came. Too much in one go did not make sense. There was an interesting idea underpinning the plot but the whole thing read like a first draft. The story needed a lot more structural editing to pull it into shape. Most disappointing was the absence of the usual Welsh dark humour. The sex scenes also read like a middle aged man\u2019s lesbotic fantasy rather than smacking of any authenticity. And TWO main characters with dysfunctional lives attributable to past trauma is just getting lazy. Worst of all, I guessed every detail about the ending long before it happened. A further couple of drafts might have enabled him to conceal the \u2018twists\u2019 a little better \u2013 or even come up with some better twists to trump the reader\u2019s expectation. The question must be asked: has Irvine Welsh become the sort of writer he might most have despised when still scribbling in obscurity? Is he now a complaisant ex-virtuoso basking in the ebbing shadows of former glory like Meatloaf at the MCG? (Google it.) I reckon the talent is still there, he just needs to work harder than ever to refine his draft plots into something worthy of the Irvine Welsh brand. Mibbe eh just needs back oan the skag? Ah widnae mind a sequel tae Porno. Aye right, Irvine? ...more One of Welsh's lesser novels. Yes, its worse than CRIME. Somehow, Welsh is not at his best when he is out of his comfort zone - writing about the Scottish working and middle classes. Irvine Welsh writing a novel set outside Scotland is like Martin Scorsese making a movie which is not about Italian Americans. Frankly, a lot of Welsh's commentary on American society is trite and antiquated. So Americans are religious and gluttonous and philistine and TV addicted. A million articles and novels have One of Welsh's lesser novels. Yes, its worse than CRIME. Somehow, Welsh is not at his best when he is out of his comfort zone - writing about the Scottish working and middle classes. Irvine Welsh writing a novel set outside Scotland is like Martin Scorsese making a movie which is not about Italian Americans. Frankly, a lot of Welsh's commentary on American society is trite and antiquated. So Americans are religious and gluttonous and philistine and TV addicted. A million articles and novels have already been written about all these attributes. The novel is up to its neck in cliches about American society. It is almost as if he wrote this book in his sleep. A lot of it seemed to be uninspired. The main character was downright mean and nasty and Welsh was only mildly successful in capturing the pathos of Lucy's situation. Even though Francis Begbie, Sick Boy and Juice Terry were despicable characters, Welsh was always able to flesh out their humanity. In this book, the things that needed to be foregrounded were always in the background. Welsh's razor sharp wit was also absent - a lot of the jokes were downright unfunny and crude. I would still pre-order Welsh's next novel (I read it is going to be about Juice Terry). But THE SEX LIVES OF SIAMESE TWINS was a real let down. I hope Welsh does not prove Sick Boy's \"unifying theory of life\" to be correct :). ...more Would you want to read a book where the protagonist is fitness fanatic professional who uses abuse and shame to kick her victims clients into shape? Do you enjoy when this sort of thing happens? Me neither. And it's a shame because this was actually a good dark and twisty tale that kept me quite entertained. Writing extreme characters is tricky, they can quickly turn into caricatures and any growth or development feels contrived. Lucy is as tough as nails, disciplined, angry and has a potty mouth. Would you want to read a book where the protagonist is fitness fanatic professional who uses abuse and shame to kick her victims clients into shape? Do you enjoy when this sort of thing happens? Me neither. And it's a shame because this was actually a good dark and twisty tale that kept me quite entertained. Writing extreme characters is tricky, they can quickly turn into caricatures and any growth or development feels contrived. Lucy is as tough as nails, disciplined, angry and has a potty mouth. Despite being bisexual, she drops fag and dyke bombs regularly. The other protagonist, Lena, is an unusual blend of naive stress-eating Minnesotan and darling of the art world who creates sculptures from animal bones. Lucy is angry. Lena is needy. Lucy and Lena get inextricably tied together, not unlike conjoined twins. Which is exactly why I picked this book. The title snagged me. And it's not the first time. Many years ago, I read for the same reason. The book about Change and Eng is a fake-memoir, but they both did father children and I was curious as to how they went about it. If you must know what the author made up, (view spoiler) [they agreed that the non-spouse in the marital bed would go into a self induced trance when the other was having sexytimes. It didn't work out that well because one of them fell for his bother's wife, and MESSY! (hide spoiler) ] . Back to Lucy and Lena. If the author would have brought them down a notch (or 2 in Lucy's case) this would have been a solid 4 stars. Read it if you like crazy effed-up dark characters with a side of non-con. Read it if this quote makes you smile: If there are two bitches in a bedroom, I'm the psycho one every fucking time. catchy title - 5 stars entertainment - 4 stars characters - 2 stars writing - 3 stars surprise factor - 3 stars audio narration - 2 stars[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Torna a casa, Irvine! Allontanando le sue storie da Edimburgo, Welsh smarrisce la parte migliore e pi\u00f9 originale della sua ispirazione. Ho appreso da alcune note biografiche che negli ultimi anni l\u2019autore scozzese \u00e8 solito svernare in Florida e quindi l\u2019ambientazione scelta per questo romanzo, peraltro gi\u00e0 utilizzata nel precedente Crime (2008), non \u00e8 totalmente frutto di fantasia ma anche di conoscenza diretta delle locations. Tuttavia, rispetto alla potente e interiorizzata esperienza personale d Torna a casa, Irvine! Allontanando le sue storie da Edimburgo, Welsh smarrisce la parte migliore e pi\u00f9 originale della sua ispirazione. Ho appreso da alcune note biografiche che negli ultimi anni l\u2019autore scozzese \u00e8 solito svernare in Florida e quindi l\u2019ambientazione scelta per questo romanzo, peraltro gi\u00e0 utilizzata nel precedente Crime (2008), non \u00e8 totalmente frutto di fantasia ma anche di conoscenza diretta delle locations. Tuttavia, rispetto alla potente e interiorizzata esperienza personale di edimburghese doc, che costituisce uno degli ingredienti imprescindibili di Trainspotting e delle altre opere pi\u00f9 note e riuscite di Welsh, qui lo spirito ironico e maligno dello scrittore si perde in un superficiale sguardo esterno, un approccio da turista che cita strade e locali di ritrovo di Miami Beach senza riuscire ad infondere vita vera ai luoghi descritti. In pi\u00f9 certamente non aiuta la scarsa simpatia delle protagoniste, cos\u00ec come si rivela una scommessa tanto audace quanto perduta in partenza l\u2019avere assunto un io narrante nei panni di una trentenne \u201cpersonal trainer\u201d, palestrata, aggressiva e salutista che con i precedenti indimenticabili protagonisti welshiani, e con Welsh stesso, ha in comune solo il fatto di essere discretamente fuori di testa e nulla pi\u00f9\u2026 Riguardo poi all\u2019ammiccante titolo che sembra alludere a inquietanti e grottesche implicazioni \u201c\u00e0 la Welsh\u201d, va precisato che le gemelle siamesi restano marginali sullo sfondo dei telegiornali, assumendo piuttosto una valenza metaforica come grado massimo dell\u2019interdipendenza che si viene a creare fra le due L (Lucy e Lena) protagoniste del libro. Un tema interessante \u00e8 invece la deriva dietetico-salustista a livelli talebani che avvolge l\u2019ossessiva Lucy (che ci presenta i personaggi del racconto a partire dalle loro misure di peso e altezza) e il suo ambiente, dove il conteggio delle calorie assunte e smaltite \u00e8 quasi una religione e il sovrappeso \u00e8 giudicato una porcheria, proprio qui nella nazione che vanta il pi\u00f9 alto tasso di ciccioni del pianeta! Ma La vita sessuale delle gemelle siamesi resta un romanzo mal riuscito, forzato e prolisso in modo a tratti insopportabile soprattutto nei piatti e prevedibili flashback sull\u2019adolescenza delle protagoniste e sulle angherie cui sono state soggette, o negli inserti di sesso trash o addirittura in scene splatter che Welsh aggiunge alla miscela per mantenere il tasso di trasgressione che ci si deve aspettare dai suoi libri. ...more I've always enjoyed Irvine Welsh's female characters - they've always been the dry-witted, long-suffering and ruthless counterpoints to his male wasters. It was good to see a book where they took the lead. Having said that, however, I struggled with the believability of the two lead characters. Lucy, the almost psychotic personal trainer, is just that bit too ruthless. Some of Lena's decisions towards the end, in addition, didn't chime with the knowledge of her that I'd established in the first I've always enjoyed Irvine Welsh's female characters - they've always been the dry-witted, long-suffering and ruthless counterpoints to his male wasters. It was good to see a book where they took the lead. Having said that, however, I struggled with the believability of the two lead characters. Lucy, the almost psychotic personal trainer, is just that bit too ruthless. Some of Lena's decisions towards the end, in addition, didn't chime with the knowledge of her that I'd established in the first and middle parts of the novel. It was still a gripping story, though, with the tension really ratcheting up with the dramatic twist about halfway through. Welsh remains one of my favourite authors. ...more This is the first time I have ever read anything of Irvine Welsh and I must say it was quite confronting. I wouldn't think this would be a read for the \"fainthearted\". It really was quite in your face with language and themes that were shocking and dark. Whilst not disliking it I'm not really sure what I thought of this book. I didn't really like the characters and I'm not sure that I'm satisfied with the resolution of the story. I guess though as the blurb says this book has it all...food, sex, This is the first time I have ever read anything of Irvine Welsh and I must say it was quite confronting. I wouldn't think this would be a read for the \"fainthearted\". It really was quite in your face with language and themes that were shocking and dark. Whilst not disliking it I'm not really sure what I thought of this book. I didn't really like the characters and I'm not sure that I'm satisfied with the resolution of the story. I guess though as the blurb says this book has it all...food, sex, murder, suspense and revenge. I give it 3.5 stars. ...more Wow. In this novel, Irvine Welsh has created some of his most engaging characters. I love the fact that he doesn't mind writing from the female point of view, and he doesn't mind making his characters incredibly fucked up. As always, no character is inherently bad. There's motivation, and even if you don't muster up empathy, there's at least some sympathy. This book is definitely twisted, and I loved every minute of it. \"Vince Vaughn eyes\" is one of the greatest descriptions I've ever read, and Wow. In this novel, Irvine Welsh has created some of his most engaging characters. I love the fact that he doesn't mind writing from the female point of view, and he doesn't mind making his characters incredibly fucked up. As always, no character is inherently bad. There's motivation, and even if you don't muster up empathy, there's at least some sympathy. This book is definitely twisted, and I loved every minute of it. \"Vince Vaughn eyes\" is one of the greatest descriptions I've ever read, and the metaphor lingers in my mind even now. ...more *NetGalley book review* Nope. I made it about 40% into it and was still baffled by what I was reading. Not for me. Lena and Lucy are thrown together by a random event. They are like chalk and cheese, one is a stick thin personal trainer the other a blob of an artist. Both women are damaged, scarred by the past, and each has a different coping mechanism - eating to excess or compulsive exercise and casual sex. They begin a strange friendship in which the power balance is constantly shifting. This being Welsh we also have a mounting tension and escalation of seemingly innocuous trends until we reach a crescendo Lena and Lucy are thrown together by a random event. They are like chalk and cheese, one is a stick thin personal trainer the other a blob of an artist. Both women are damaged, scarred by the past, and each has a different coping mechanism - eating to excess or compulsive exercise and casual sex. They begin a strange friendship in which the power balance is constantly shifting. This being Welsh we also have a mounting tension and escalation of seemingly innocuous trends until we reach a crescendo of violence and death. Throughout the book we have a parallel theme of Siamese twins and the will they, won't they saga as they contemplate going under the knife to be separated. One of the twins will have a relatively normal life, the other has at best a 40% chance of survival. Lena and Lucy's relationship is in some ways similar - will they excise the link, and if they do will the weaker woman go under? But who is the weaker woman? Profane, bleak and funny - exactly as you would expect from Mr W - but this book in my view is not as good as his work set in the dives and dregs of Scottish low life. A three at best. ...more At times I found this book to be deeply offending and disturbing piece of literature. To read it trough is to go trough a series of thought provoking and nerve wrecking chapters. Some times reading was a battle and an up hill climb. In the end it was not what I expected and I'm glad for it Nunca hab\u00eda le\u00eddo a Irvine Welsh (s\u00ed, el de \"Trainspotting\"). Empec\u00e9 \"La vida sexual de las gemelas siameses\". Qu\u00e9 bodrio tan infumable, qu\u00e9 prosa tan plana. Ingenuo, obvio, aburrido. Con gran esfuerzo llegu\u00e9 a la p. 50. Ni una sola frase memorable en esas 50 p\u00e1ginas. Y la traducci\u00f3n, Dios m\u00edo, la traducci\u00f3n. Como si estuvieras viendo \"El padrino\" y don Corleone te espetara un \"\u00bfQu\u00e9 co\u00f1o es eso? A tomar por culo, gilipollas\". Se nota que escribe adem\u00e1s imaginando que ser\u00e1 una pel\u00edcula. \u00bfQuer\u00e9s bu Nunca hab\u00eda le\u00eddo a Irvine Welsh (s\u00ed, el de \"Trainspotting\"). Empec\u00e9 \"La vida sexual de las gemelas siameses\". Qu\u00e9 bodrio tan infumable, qu\u00e9 prosa tan plana. Ingenuo, obvio, aburrido. Con gran esfuerzo llegu\u00e9 a la p. 50. Ni una sola frase memorable en esas 50 p\u00e1ginas. Y la traducci\u00f3n, Dios m\u00edo, la traducci\u00f3n. Como si estuvieras viendo \"El padrino\" y don Corleone te espetara un \"\u00bfQu\u00e9 co\u00f1o es eso? A tomar por culo, gilipollas\". Se nota que escribe adem\u00e1s imaginando que ser\u00e1 una pel\u00edcula. \u00bfQuer\u00e9s burlarte del estado actual de la sociedad? Ah\u00ed est\u00e1 Houellebecq. \u00bfQuer\u00e9s una escritura al mismo tiempo l\u00edrica y vigorosa? Ah\u00ed ten\u00e9s a C\u0101rt\u0101rescu. \u00bfPrefer\u00eds una novela m\u00e1s s\u00f3lida? \u00bfQu\u00e9 tal Auster? Y bueno, aqu\u00ed es donde uno dice: \"Pu\u00f1a, y el que se muri\u00f3 fue Piglia\". ...more Much better than I was expecting Irvine Welsh is my favourite contemporary writer. Since reading ' Trainspotting \u2019, around the time it came out, I have read most of Irvine Welsh's books and, to one degree or another, enjoyed them all. On 4th May 2014, I went to see Irvine Welsh in conversation with (the nearly as brilliant) John Niven at the Brighton Festival. It was around the time ' The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins ' was published. Everything I heard that night suggested this would be another Welshia Much better than I was expecting Irvine Welsh is my favourite contemporary writer. Since reading ' Trainspotting \u2019, around the time it came out, I have read most of Irvine Welsh's books and, to one degree or another, enjoyed them all. On 4th May 2014, I went to see Irvine Welsh in conversation with (the nearly as brilliant) John Niven at the Brighton Festival. It was around the time ' The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins ' was published. Everything I heard that night suggested this would be another Welshian winner. For whatever reason I have only just got round to reading it and in the interim my expectation levels dipped significantly having read a few negative reviews from long time fans. For my money ' The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins ' is up there with Irvine Welsh's best work. It\u2019s not quite Trainspotting, Skagboys, or Porno - but then what is? ' The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins ' contains a couple of classic Irvine Welsh characters - Lucy Brennan and Lena Sorenson. Irvine Welsh writes brilliant characters and these are right up there with some of his best. Especially the monstrous, hilarious Lucy Brennan - the ultimate, obsessive personal trainer - a bisexual with a voracious sex drive and a-take-no-prisoners attitude that is both appalling and very funny. Lena Sorenson appears to be very different to Lucy - an overweight, self effacing artist who is both damaged and vulnerable - but are they really so very different? I\u2019ve always enjoyed Irvine Welsh\u2019s female characters so a book narrated entirely from the point of view of Lucy and Lena was wonderful. The book opens with a very dramatic incident and I was gripped from the off and enjoyed every page. The Miami location and all American cast are also a refreshing change from his Scotland based work. Were it not for the mixed reviews, I would confidently assert that if you like Irvine\u2019s oeuvre you\u2019ll love this too. I thought ' The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins ' was very entertaining and another winner from the great man. 4/5 ...more Reading an Irvine Welsh book is like a literature osmosis of certainty for me. No matter what the genre, era, location, characters or dialogue; I will love it! It took me about two weeks of post-reading reflection to admit it but I just didn't love this book. Loving something makes leaving it hard, not thinking about it harder and never having it again devastating. That's how I know I didn't love this book. To keep things in perspective, I read it cover to cover (or 0% to 100%) in a little over a Reading an Irvine Welsh book is like a literature osmosis of certainty for me. No matter what the genre, era, location, characters or dialogue; I will love it! It took me about two weeks of post-reading reflection to admit it but I just didn't love this book. Loving something makes leaving it hard, not thinking about it harder and never having it again devastating. That's how I know I didn't love this book. To keep things in perspective, I read it cover to cover (or 0% to 100%) in a little over a week. It was entertaining and I did care what happened to the main characters at the end. There were 1 or 2 bits that made me laugh out loud and there were a couple more that made me shift uncomfortably in my seat. Table stakes for an Irvine Welsh book. Reading the first 20 pages was like seeing your best mate at school in his new school uniform- no longer the same as your's. I never got comfortable identifying with the protagonists (30-something females) or setting (Miami beach). Natural for a 28 y/o Edinburgh male? Maybe. Although the absence of Welsh's trademark colloquial narrative and location references, feeling more like rock concert-style name dropping, makes me feel like I wasn't the only one... To me Lena and Lucy would be more at home in a Martina Cole book- on the gritty side of realistic but lacking the finely-woven complexity of a Renton, Bruce Robertson or Terry Lawson. It is grossly erroneous to suggest Welsh doesn't have the convincing female voice in his repertoire- Nikki (Porno) and Tianna (Crime) for a kick-off. The hallmarks of background, development, revenge and redemption were all present but not at their potent best. Concurrent storyline metaphors and cultural references lacked Welsh's usual adroit subtlety. It would be lazy and borderline racist to infer Welsh favouring the sunny boulevards of Florida to the piss-soaked pavements of Leith has anything to do with this, however, it is clear where he is more at home (in literature anyway) The ending is undoubtedly complete and satisfying. Like having one last good shag with a girlfriend you know you will never marry? Perhaps If you think this review is overly scathing then you are right. You can only judge Irvine Welsh books on the his own genius. A deviation from this? Yes. A downward trend? Never. As a wise man once said- \"It is easier to criticise the mars bar supper from Ethiopia than Hampstead\" Neil Harkins, Addis Ababa ...more When I spotted this on the new releases shelf of my local library, I was baffled of the idea of Welsh having written this book, set in Miami, about two women in their early thirties, one of which is a body obsessed fitness obstructor. What could the author of Trainspotting and Filth tell me about these people, and this place? I was absolutely blown away. From the Americanisms in the pov voices of the two main protagonists, to the female experience of sex, image, experiences and our placement with When I spotted this on the new releases shelf of my local library, I was baffled of the idea of Welsh having written this book, set in Miami, about two women in their early thirties, one of which is a body obsessed fitness obstructor. What could the author of Trainspotting and Filth tell me about these people, and this place? I was absolutely blown away. From the Americanisms in the pov voices of the two main protagonists, to the female experience of sex, image, experiences and our placement within the world at large, I had to keep reminding myself that this was written by a Scottish Middle aged man. It was fantastic. The story was spellbinding and had me hooked, I pounded through in two days, staying up way past my bedtime to see what would happen next, as I honestly could not see any of it coming, unlike any book I've read in many years. The setting and environments were so well imagined and conveyed, I found myself in southern Florida for 48 hrs, and strolled their haunts, their homes, the climate and their minds. I honestly don't know if I would have taken this book if it had been by another author, and especially I think, if it had been written by a woman as by the blurb, it could so easily have led into another dull tale of body image and boyfriends. In hindsight, that actually is what it is, but it's been brought to us in a brand new, non-simpering manner, with the added typical horror and revulsion we have all come to know, and many of us love, from Irvine Welsh. I actually hugged the book when I'd finished. Don't tell the library though, I think that's disallowed in their new pamphlet of rules. ...more Was interested to see him write from a female protagonist, not only that but from an American and not his usual Scottish writing. I was sceptical but he did it so well and still kept me interested. Loved how he changed the chapters of point of view from both protagonists. He usually jumps and rarely is a full book by him from the point of view of one character and I love this style. I hated both Lena & Lucy but I doubt you were suppose to like them. Strong characters and fucked up situations is Was interested to see him write from a female protagonist, not only that but from an American and not his usual Scottish writing. I was sceptical but he did it so well and still kept me interested. Loved how he changed the chapters of point of view from both protagonists. He usually jumps and rarely is a full book by him from the point of view of one character and I love this style. I hated both Lena & Lucy but I doubt you were suppose to like them. Strong characters and fucked up situations is something you can depend on from Irvine Welsh and this didnt disappoint. Of course it is still no trainspotting or glue. And I am really glad Lena & Lucy ended up together in the end since there was such sexual tension throughout the book. I wish there had been a bit more info on Lena keeping Lucy tied up. ...more De Irvine Welsh am mai citit doar Acid House, iar modul dezaxat \u00een care scrie l-a f\u0103cut s\u0103 devin\u0103 repede autor pe care s\u0103-l v\u00e2nez pe rafturile libr\u0103riilor, exact \u00een acela\u0219i fel \u00een care mi-am descoperit \u0219i apoi mi-am dezvoltat obsesia pentru un alt dezaxat, Chuck Palahniuk. Am \u00eenceput citirea c\u0103r\u021bii a\u0219tept\u00e2ndu-m\u0103 la cu totul altceva, iar acesta este un plus al scriitorului. C\u0103 e bine s\u0103 nu prime\u0219ti mereu chiar ceea ce a\u0219tep\u021bi; e interesant, incitant. \u00cens\u0103 nu \u0219tiu dac\u0103 m-am bucurat pentru ce am pri De Irvine Welsh am mai citit doar Acid House, iar modul dezaxat \u00een care scrie l-a f\u0103cut s\u0103 devin\u0103 repede autor pe care s\u0103-l v\u00e2nez pe rafturile libr\u0103riilor, exact \u00een acela\u0219i fel \u00een care mi-am descoperit \u0219i apoi mi-am dezvoltat obsesia pentru un alt dezaxat, Chuck Palahniuk. Am \u00eenceput citirea c\u0103r\u021bii a\u0219tept\u00e2ndu-m\u0103 la cu totul altceva, iar acesta este un plus al scriitorului. C\u0103 e bine s\u0103 nu prime\u0219ti mereu chiar ceea ce a\u0219tep\u021bi; e interesant, incitant. \u00cens\u0103 nu \u0219tiu dac\u0103 m-am bucurat pentru ce am primit. \u00cen mod cert m-a intrigat subiectul, dar p\u00e2n\u0103 la un a\u0219a nivel c\u0103, pe la mijlocul c\u0103r\u021bii sau chiar mai devreme, am decis c\u0103 e momentul s\u0103 fac sport. Recenzia integral\u0103: http://irrefutabilis.blogspot.ro/2016... ...more Un romanzo in pura salsa Welsh che, nell'intrecciare le esistenze di una salutista ed aggressiva personal tranier e di una sottomessa ed obesa artista, crea una rappresentazione della moderna societ\u00e0 ossessionata dall'aspetto fisico, un ritratto dell'America morboso, cinico, volgare ed eccessivo, che per\u00f2 coglie nel segno nell'interpretazione che viene fatta del quadro sociale. Le due protagoniste principali sono due personaggi interessanti, agli antipodi, che si completano a vicenda nel loro ess Un romanzo in pura salsa Welsh che, nell'intrecciare le esistenze di una salutista ed aggressiva personal tranier e di una sottomessa ed obesa artista, crea una rappresentazione della moderna societ\u00e0 ossessionata dall'aspetto fisico, un ritratto dell'America morboso, cinico, volgare ed eccessivo, che per\u00f2 coglie nel segno nell'interpretazione che viene fatta del quadro sociale. Le due protagoniste principali sono due personaggi interessanti, agli antipodi, che si completano a vicenda nel loro essere diametralmente opposte. Ne ho trovato la caratterizzazione perlopi\u00f9 ben fatta, sia per quanto riguarda le vicende in cui vengono coinvolte nel presente della storia che per il loro background (per entrambe con traumi, complessit\u00e0 che giustificano le loro personalit\u00e0 attuali), ma con il proseguire della storia ho percepito alcune falle, conclusioni e comportamenti stonati. Lo stile \u00e8, chiaramente, molto eccessivo, senza filtri n\u00e9 tentativi di moderarsi, dunque ci vuole un po' di dimestichezza con l'autore per apprezzarlo in pieno o comunque una buona sopportazione per le volgarit\u00e0, per le descrizioni particolareggiate di qualsiasi funzione corporea, del decadente e morboso rapporto che si crea fra le due donne protagoniste. E' scorrevole se si ha lo stomaco per il genere, probabilmente un po' pesante se non si ama questo tipo d'approccio - ma questo discorso \u00e8 applicabile a qualsiasi libro dell'autore, non solo a questo. Ho trovato d'intrattenimento l'analisi sociale che viene portata avanti, la comparazione di due stili di vita differenti, ma in un certo senso ugualmente distruttivi, che si incontrano e scontrano in un mondo fatto di dipendenze, di immagine e di superficialit\u00e0, di maschere che si indossano per nascondere traumi e dolori. Non tutto mi ha convinto, poich\u00e9 in alcuni punti la trama parte per delle tangenti poco chiare, ma nel complesso \u00e8 una lettura godibile, che analizza il tema del doppio - gi\u00e0 caro all'autore - in modo originale, dandone una lettura in chiave moderna che risulta piacevole, scorrevole, semplice, ma non superficiale. ...more Three stars a bit generous but two too harsh. Read this for book club. Haven't read anything else by Welsh and, as other reviews have intimated, this probably helped me to view it more generously as I believe this fares poorly compared to Trainspotting, Filth etc. TSLOST seemed to me to be a way for Welsh to channel some of his more sadistic fantasies under the guise of a compelling novel. Positives: it is more original than other crime/thriller novels and not predictable, which has to be a good Three stars a bit generous but two too harsh. Read this for book club. Haven't read anything else by Welsh and, as other reviews have intimated, this probably helped me to view it more generously as I believe this fares poorly compared to Trainspotting, Filth etc. TSLOST seemed to me to be a way for Welsh to channel some of his more sadistic fantasies under the guise of a compelling novel. Positives: it is more original than other crime/thriller novels and not predictable, which has to be a good thing for fans of this genre (not me). However the characters and the plots were unconvincing, even within the context of the novel - things were poorly explained or half-baked allusions were made to imply something or other (e.g. the 'sex lives of Siamese twins' parallel). If one wanted to be generous, one could argue that Welsh is leaving things open for interpretation and rumination, but it seems more as though he just couldn't quite be bothered to make things tie up effectively. His use of Miami dialect is also quite cringe-worthy. I've never been to Miami but I strongly suspect that people don't speak like they are in a dodgy 90's crime novel, as this novel would suggest. I understand that Welsh now lives between Miami and Chicago, but if he must make dialect a defining feature of his writing, he should probably stick to Scottish. All that said, I would conceivably recommend this to some people - if they enjoy slightly wacky, screwed up thrillers (which I think lots of people do!). ...more This is an excellent book. I was excited that this was the first time I got to read my favourite author's new book as soon as it was released and it didn't disappoint. Much has been made of the fact this is the first novel Welsh has released that doesn't contain any reference to his native Scotland (Crime was set in the States but still had ties by virtue of Lennox being Scottish and featuring himself in Filth). I'd say he's executed the 'transition' beautifully although much of that is owed to t This is an excellent book. I was excited that this was the first time I got to read my favourite author's new book as soon as it was released and it didn't disappoint. Much has been made of the fact this is the first novel Welsh has released that doesn't contain any reference to his native Scotland (Crime was set in the States but still had ties by virtue of Lennox being Scottish and featuring himself in Filth). I'd say he's executed the 'transition' beautifully although much of that is owed to the fact that his characters still have the same borderline-psychopath tendencies of a Begbie or Bruce Robertson. Whilst still containing the trademark depravity, the story is enjoyable and original. I came close to giving it 5 stars because there are broader messages being conveyed but ultimately they're not intellectually fresh enough in my opinion to warrant 'classic' status. For the record, the novel is an exploration into how the American society is increasingly polarised into the junk-food eating obese population and the health-obsessed. Sex (specifically feminimity) features heavily and the way two people in close proximity interract in the context of this and the aforemententioned society is crucial to the entire book...it's very hard to be more specific without ruining some of the nice twists and turns in the book! On writing this review, I may revise my rating upwards to 5 stars but I just don't quite feel it's a rich enough or comprehensive enough insight to rival Skagboys or Trainspotting. ...more Irving Welsh has moved from Edinburgh to America and based his latest book in Miami. At its heart though it is still about how we live and if one has read his previous books there is a comparison to be drawn between the nature of an addition to drugs, as with his Leith novels (Trainspotting etc), with the nature of an addiction to fitness. The main character Lucy is tough and uncompromising. She works as a personal trainer and is obsessed with calories and exercise. Her own workouts are hard, box Irving Welsh has moved from Edinburgh to America and based his latest book in Miami. At its heart though it is still about how we live and if one has read his previous books there is a comparison to be drawn between the nature of an addition to drugs, as with his Leith novels (Trainspotting etc), with the nature of an addiction to fitness. The main character Lucy is tough and uncompromising. She works as a personal trainer and is obsessed with calories and exercise. Her own workouts are hard, boxing and martial arts training, and she lives an existence that doesn\u2019t have room for anyone else. Yet as we discover she is trapped on a road that she believes the is only one as she is terrified to stray of it, even one tiny bit. Just like a drug addicts in the Leith novels are trapped in a particular environment that is difficult to escape. For me the book is about American culture and how it feeds into a particular type of individualism and ultimately traps Lucy into maintaining a persona that deep down isn\u2019t her. ...more I have read all of Irvine Welshs books and have always really enjoyed them, in fact he is one of my favourite authors.But this was a huge disappointment.This just did not have the gritty, edgy feel as in the books set in Scotland and I found the characters quite pathetic.Lets hope this was just a minor blip in an otherwise brilliant career.A bit more Begbie, Spud and Juice Terry and less of these boring characters from this book. I think I liked this more as an audiobook than I would have just reading it. The narrators did a fantastic job. Irvine Welsh's competence to originate fierce and feisty alpha females is thrilling. Das Grauen lauert \u00fcberall und wer reibt es uns besser unter die Nase als Autor Irvine Welsh? Sp\u00e4testens seit seinem Welterfolg \"Trainspotting\" ist der Schriftsteller ein Garant f\u00fcr Geschichten voller krummer Gestalten, \u00fcblen Taten, F\u00e4kalien und heftigem Sex. Kein Wunder erschien auch sein Roman \"Das Sexleben siamesischer Zwillinge\" bei Heyne unter dem \"Hardcore\"-Label. Und der Inhalt von diesem Buch ist wahrlich kein leichter, l\u00e4sst Welsh seine Figuren auf manisches Verhalten, K\u00f6rperwahn, Hass u Das Grauen lauert \u00fcberall und wer reibt es uns besser unter die Nase als Autor Irvine Welsh? Sp\u00e4testens seit seinem Welterfolg \"Trainspotting\" ist der Schriftsteller ein Garant f\u00fcr Geschichten voller krummer Gestalten, \u00fcblen Taten, F\u00e4kalien und heftigem Sex. Kein Wunder erschien auch sein Roman \"Das Sexleben siamesischer Zwillinge\" bei Heyne unter dem \"Hardcore\"-Label. Und der Inhalt von diesem Buch ist wahrlich kein leichter, l\u00e4sst Welsh seine Figuren auf manisches Verhalten, K\u00f6rperwahn, Hass und Gewalt und gef\u00e4hrliche Lust prallen. Aus der Perspektive von amerikanischen Frauen erz\u00e4hlt, verliert der Autor hier aber etwas von seiner Kraft. Sein Ausdruck will nicht so Recht in diese Szenerie passen, seine Figuren waren mir etwas zu platt. Sicherlich stehen viele Charaktereigenschaften f\u00fcr die abartigen \"Normen\" gewisser Gesellschaftsschichten, manchmal wirkt es aber doch sehr platt. Nat\u00fcrlich steigert sich das Buch immer st\u00e4rker in einen Strudel aus extremem Sex, blutiger Gewalt und Misanthropie - weiss aber auch dann nicht wirklich zu schocken oder packen. Irvine Welsh funktioniert in Europa besser, wer die behandelten Themen intensiver aus der US-Perspektive erleben will, der greift zu Bret-Easton Ellis. ...more Im sch\u00f6nen und hei\u00dfen Miami rettet Lucy zwei M\u00e4nnern das Leben, die von einem Bewaffneten bedroht werden. Lena, die gerade zur Stelle war, filmt die Entwaffnungsaktion mit ihrem Handy und \u00fcberreicht es Polizei und Presse. Aber nicht nur das, sie heftet sich auch noch an Lucys Fersen und nervt die taffe Fitnesstrainerin, die in Lena nur die fette und schwache Versagerin sieht. Lena l\u00e4sst sich von Lucy trainieren und die verliert immer mehr die Kontrolle \u00fcber sich und wir immer gemeiner zu Lena, b Im sch\u00f6nen und hei\u00dfen Miami rettet Lucy zwei M\u00e4nnern das Leben, die von einem Bewaffneten bedroht werden. Lena, die gerade zur Stelle war, filmt die Entwaffnungsaktion mit ihrem Handy und \u00fcberreicht es Polizei und Presse. Aber nicht nur das, sie heftet sich auch noch an Lucys Fersen und nervt die taffe Fitnesstrainerin, die in Lena nur die fette und schwache Versagerin sieht. Lena l\u00e4sst sich von Lucy trainieren und die verliert immer mehr die Kontrolle \u00fcber sich und wir immer gemeiner zu Lena, bis das Ganze schlie\u00dflich eskaliert. \"Man k\u00f6nnte das vermutlich oberfl\u00e4chlich und unh\u00f6flich nennen, doch ihr Aussehen ist in der Tat ein Verbrechen gegen die \u00e4sthetische Ordnung in South Beach, der vielleicht letzten Bastion der Vernunft in dieser durchgeknallten Welt.\" (Seite 167) Ich wurde durch den ungew\u00f6hnlichen Titel aufmerksam auf das Buch und weil es von einem meiner Lieblingsverlage, Heyne Hardcore, ist. Auch der Klappentext versprach einiges an Spa\u00df und Spannung. Ich freute mich dann nat\u00fcrlich unglaublich, als ich \"Das Sexleben siamesischer Zwillinge\" durch das Bloggerportal von Randomhouse zugeschickt bekam. Jetzt konnte dem Lesespa\u00df nichts mehr im Wege stehen. Oder doch? \"Ich sch\u00fcttle den Kopf und \u00e4ffe mit verstellter Stimme ihr j\u00e4mmerliches Piepsen nach: - Aber das kann doch nicht sein! Das ist nicht fair! Mein Gesicht verzieht sich zu einer clownesken Grimasse. - Die gro\u00dfe Frage, die ganz Amerika auf den Lippen liegt: Ich habe doch nur auf der Couch rumgehangen und tonnenweise Schei\u00dfe gefressen, wie konnte ich da zu so einem plumpen, aufgedunsenen Fettklops werden? Wie konnte das passieren?\" (Seite 90) Ich muss ehrlich gestehen, dass es mir am Anfang etwas schwer fiel, mich auf die Geschichte einzulassen. Eigentlich fragte ich mich st\u00e4ndig, wann es denn endlich richtig los geht. Aber irgendwann hatte mich Welsh richtig gepackt und ich konnte und wollte das Buch nicht mehr aus der Hand legen. Habe sogar von dieser verr\u00fcckten Geschichte getr\u00e4umt. Die beiden Hauptcharaktere k\u00f6nnten unterschiedlicher nicht sein. Lucy, die Fitnesstrainerin, die die Kalorien s\u00e4mtlicher Lebensmittel im Kopf hat, am liebsten 24. Stunden am Tag Sport machen w\u00fcrde und bei der sogar der Sex zu einem Workout ausartet. Akribisch gibt sie alles was sie zu sich nimmt, in ihre Handy-App ein und wenn sie uns einen Menschen vorstellt, dann zuerst mit Gr\u00f6\u00dfe und Gewicht. Sie ist besessen vom K\u00f6rperkult und kann nicht verstehen, warum nicht alle Menschen so leben wie sie. Lena ist eine ungl\u00fcckliche K\u00fcnstlerin die sich einen dicken Schutzpanzer angefuttert hat und \u00fcber absolut kein Selbstbewusstsein verf\u00fcgt. Sie bricht aus der Enge der Kleinstadt aus und versucht ihrer \u00fcbervorsorglichen Mutter und dem desinteressierten Vater zu entkommen und studiert heimlich an der Kunstakademie von Chicago, wo sie auch ihre gro\u00dfe Liebe kennen lernt. Als sie nach Miami umzieht ist sie eine gebrochene Frau ohne gro\u00dfen Lebenswillen. Wenn so zwei unterschiedliche Menschen aufeinander treffen m\u00fcssen ja die Fetzen fliegen. Sympathisch war mir eigentlich keine der Beiden, aber sie waren richtig interessant und ich musste einfach st\u00e4ndig wissen, wie es weiter geht. Das Ende war dann so ganz anders als gedacht. Sehr gut fand ich auch, dass beide Frauen ihre guten und schlechten Seiten haben. In dem Buch wird der K\u00f6rperkult und Fitnesswahn von Miami auf die Schippe genommen. Das ist dem Autor wirklich hervorragend gelungen. Jeder der nicht schlank und sch\u00f6n ist, wird gnadenlos ausgegrenzt. Die Sprache ist derbe und vulg\u00e4r und passt perfekt zur knallharten Lucy. Aber das Buch h\u00e4lt auch noch einige \u00dcberraschungen parat. \"Wie befreie ich diese nervige Schwabbelbacke blo\u00df von ihrem Fett? ich schicke sie aufs Laufband, erst im Schritttempo, um dann allm\u00e4hlich einen Zahn zuzulegen. Ich lege die Latte h\u00f6her, schalte auf 8 km/h und zwinge sie, mit Gepolter \u00fcber das Gummiband zu galoppieren. Tanz, fetter kleiner Hamster, tanz! (Seite 105) Die siamesischen Zwillinge bilden einen 2. Part in dieser Geschichte, von der die Protagonistinnen immer wieder in der Zeitung lesen oder im Fernsehen unterrichtet werden. Ihr Privatleben wird in der \u00d6ffentlichkeit diskutiert, weil eine der Zwillinge sich verliebt und mit ihrem Freund zusammen sein m\u00f6chte und die Andere etwas dagegen hat, nat\u00fcrlich dadurch erschwert wird, dass die beiden M\u00e4dchen sich nicht aus dem Weg gehen k\u00f6nnen. \" Zwei halb tote Bulimie-Chicks, die daf\u00fcr bekannt sind, t\u00e4glich 3 Stunden auf dem Crosstrainer zu verbringen, und die in mindestens 4 Fitnessklubs von South Beach Hausverbot haben, weil sie st\u00e4ndig bis zum nahen Zusammenbruch (und oft genug dar\u00fcber hinaus) trainieren, unterbrechen kurz ihren Selbstmordpakt, um meine Begleiterin mit blankem Horror in den ausgemergelten Fratzen anzustarren. Ja, ich bin mit einem fetten M\u00e4dchen unterwegs, und wenn man in Miami \u00fcbergewichtig ist, dann k\u00f6nnte man genauso gut Lepra im Endstadium haben und seine K\u00f6rperteile auf dem Tanzboden verteilen. Ich habe einen unentschuldbaren Fauxpas begangen, indem ich einen Fettklops in den Club mitgenommen habe.\" (Seite 161/162) \"Das Sexleben siamesischer Zwillinge\" war mein erstes Buch von Irvine Welsh, aber mit Sicherheit nicht das Letzte. Sein ungew\u00f6hnlich derber Schreibstil, der trotz allem unglaublich bildhaft ist und sich in das Gehirn des Lesers frisst, hat es mir angetan. Ich hoffe, ich komme bald dazu ein weiteres Buch des Autors zu lesen. Geschrieben hat er ja einige. Ich vergebe f\u00fcr diese au\u00dfergew\u00f6hnliche Geschichte 5 von 5 Byrons, denn trotz dem etwas schleppenden Beginn, konnte mich die Geschichte absolut \u00fcberzeugen. Herrlich b\u00f6se und \u00fcberraschend. \u00a9 Beate Senft ...more This review was originally published to Bookish Ardour Talk about being drawn into an intense spiral of obsession and obscenities, reading until your eyes go blurry, and then feeling wounded from a story. A story! I admit I haven\u2019t read any of Irvine Welsh\u2019s books before The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins. Upon completion of reading Sex Lives though, I would hazard a guess none of his work is going to go over well with innocent readers. At. All. I do not believe I am a prude. Turns out the only reason This review was originally published to Bookish Ardour Talk about being drawn into an intense spiral of obsession and obscenities, reading until your eyes go blurry, and then feeling wounded from a story. A story! I admit I haven\u2019t read any of Irvine Welsh\u2019s books before The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins. Upon completion of reading Sex Lives though, I would hazard a guess none of his work is going to go over well with innocent readers. At. All. I do not believe I am a prude. Turns out the only reason that\u2019s good for me is I\u2019m able to stomach certain scenarios in narratives. Well, scenarios and copious amounts of swearing. Lucy Brennan is one of the most crass characters I have come across. Crass, self-absorbed, detrimental to herself and everyone around her, and personally I believe she is unlikable. The beginning of the story created this false sense of relating to a character. It\u2019s rare to come across bisexual characters in mainstream fiction. I don\u2019t want to pull the bisexual woman card, but I\u2019ve had my fair share of dealings with stereotypes and abuse all due to sexuality. It is common for a bi-woman to be labelled a nymphomaniac, promiscuous, and a tease. Towards the end of Sex Lives, it was spiralling into a degenerative fantasy featuring stereotypical bisexual women. I can\u2019t decide if this was shocking merely for shocks-sake, or if the boorish, over the top sexual fantasy, and vehement obscenities was the point. The part of me that likes to read into everything sees this as a commentary on stereotypes. Everything in Sex Lives is extreme. I believe some of it was uncalled for and at times I wasn\u2019t convinced there was a point. Then I realised the characters have a distinct obsession and the plot\u2019s mess reflects it. I\u2019m sure I will be all-sorts of perplexed for a while. So much so I\u2019m not sure which direction to go in. On the one hand the story was really messed up, but I know Sex Lives wouldn\u2019t be what it is if it wasn\u2019t messed up. I thoroughly enjoyed it up until a point. I even went so far as to describe parts of the story to my partner so we could share in the astonishment it caused. The point was the climax. This is not a pun, but you could take it as one. If you\u2019ve read it you\u2019ll understand what I mean when the story could have been brought to completion at the climax\u2026 Yes, I am rolling my eyes at that. On the other hand, I feel as though I should be highly offended. I can\u2019t decide if that\u2019s a wanted reaction or not, which is one reason I\u2019m perplexed. What really turned me off though wasn\u2019t the intensity, the vulgarity, the sex scenes, the language, or even the climax. No, it was having all the pieces wrapped up. Once the climax is reached the intensity is gone. It wasn\u2019t even a satisfying after-climax for me. The momentum was lost and my ability to care went with it. This is what undid the story for me. If you\u2019re a prude stay away from The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins. Stay far, far away. Otherwise do read it if only for the experience if not the story ...more This book has had a lot of bad reviews and I suppose I can understand why -- however, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and it was very hard not to put it down. Firstly I'll start with what I found to be the biggest and most frustrating flaw; The dialogue - the dialogue was sometimes confusing because the author didn't use conventional ways of presenting it through quotations marks. I found it really irritating to begin with. I couldn't tell when dialogue began and where it ended and if it was conti This book has had a lot of bad reviews and I suppose I can understand why -- however, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and it was very hard not to put it down. Firstly I'll start with what I found to be the biggest and most frustrating flaw; The dialogue - the dialogue was sometimes confusing because the author didn't use conventional ways of presenting it through quotations marks. I found it really irritating to begin with. I couldn't tell when dialogue began and where it ended and if it was continuing. The other thing that was really frustrating to me, was the way Welsh wrote the sex scenes to be incredibly graphic and crass. If I didn't know who the author was, I'd guess immediately that it was written by a man. Lucy Brennan was so incredibly offensive and irritating. I felt like the author made her go way too far. The language, the fat-shaming, the bullying--watching her unravel when things started going awry was probably the most satisfying adventure in the book. It was almost exasperating in parts and frustrating to see that she was constantly able to get away with so much without someone calling her for exactly what she was. In contrast, I loved Lena Sorensen from about a quarter of the way through and I knew she had to have had a pretty devastating backstory. The subplot is, of course, the teenage Siamese Twins in the media that are conflicted by the love of a boyfriend to one of the girls. The parallels of the two main characters and the siamese twins become more apparent as the book comes to a close. The story becomes incredibly good from the middle to the end - it was a gripping story that kept me feeling anxious to read on in any spare second that I had. Work lunch breaks, before bed, ten minutes before I actually forced myself out of bed in the morning and all Sunday afternoon. Perhaps the most satisfying part of this book was seeing someone's uppance finally come. It was seeing someone actually having to walk a day (and more) in another person's shoes and finally understanding and appreciating that everybody has a backstory and that everyone's shit shapes them in to what they become. Overall, I enjoyed this. The ending wasn't exactly as I expected, but it all kind of fell together and wasn't disappointing. Great book! ...more Dali ste si novoro\u010dn\u00e9 predsavzatie, \u017ee schudnete, pr\u00edpadne budete sa viac h\u00fdba\u0165 a hlavne kone\u010dne za\u010dnete nie\u010do so sebou robi\u0165 a ani tento rok to nevy\u0161lo? A rozm\u00fd\u0161\u013eate nad t\u00fdm, \u017ee si pre\u010d\u00edtate nejak\u00fa motiva\u010dn\u00fa knihu, ktor\u00e1 V\u00e1s nakopne? Tak na to sa vyka\u0161lite a rad\u0161ej siahnite po Pohlavn\u00edch \u017eivotech siamskych dvoj\u010dat, ktor\u00fa nap\u00edsal Irvine Welsh, autor Trainspotingu. Zvl\u00e1\u0161tna, trochu \u0161ialen\u00e1 a miestami dos\u0165 vulg\u00e1rna kniha je pr\u00edbehom dvoch \u017eien, fitness tr\u00e9nerky Lucy a jej klientky ob\u00e9znej umelkyne Dali ste si novoro\u010dn\u00e9 predsavzatie, \u017ee schudnete, pr\u00edpadne budete sa viac h\u00fdba\u0165 a hlavne kone\u010dne za\u010dnete nie\u010do so sebou robi\u0165 a ani tento rok to nevy\u0161lo? A rozm\u00fd\u0161\u013eate nad t\u00fdm, \u017ee si pre\u010d\u00edtate nejak\u00fa motiva\u010dn\u00fa knihu, ktor\u00e1 V\u00e1s nakopne? Tak na to sa vyka\u0161lite a rad\u0161ej siahnite po Pohlavn\u00edch \u017eivotech siamskych dvoj\u010dat, ktor\u00fa nap\u00edsal Irvine Welsh, autor Trainspotingu. Zvl\u00e1\u0161tna, trochu \u0161ialen\u00e1 a miestami dos\u0165 vulg\u00e1rna kniha je pr\u00edbehom dvoch \u017eien, fitness tr\u00e9nerky Lucy a jej klientky ob\u00e9znej umelkyne Leny, ktor\u00e9 sa zhodou n\u00e1hod stretn\u00fa pri prepade na moste. Lucy zne\u0161kodn\u00ed nebepe\u010dn\u00e9ho p\u00e1chate\u013ea so zbra\u0148ou a pre Lenu je t\u00e1to situ\u00e1cia t\u00fdm spr\u00e1vnym impulzom, aby za\u010dala kone\u010dne nie\u010do robi\u0165 so svojou nadv\u00e1hou a celkovou kond\u00edciou. A tak za\u010dne chodi\u0165 urob\u00ed z Lucy svoju osobn\u00fa tr\u00e9nerku. A jej cesta za lep\u0161\u00edm ja za\u010d\u00edna. Ve\u013emi dobre nap\u00edsan\u00e1 kniha, ktor\u00e1 na mnoh\u00fdch z V\u00e1s ur\u010dite silne zap\u00f4sob\u00ed, bu\u010f sa V\u00e1m hne\u010f zap\u00e1\u010di, alebo ju okam\u017eite odlo\u017e\u00edte. Predsa len slovn\u00edk pou\u017eit\u00fd v tejto knihe nie je pre ka\u017ed\u00fa povahu a viem si predstavi\u0165, \u017ee niekomu nemus\u00ed vyhovova\u0165. St\u00e1le si ale mysl\u00edm, \u017ee ide o ve\u013emi dobr\u00fd pr\u00edbeh, pln\u00fd prekvapiv\u00fdch zvratov a zauj\u00edmav\u00fdch inform\u00e1ci\u00ed. Po jej pre\u010d\u00edtan\u00ed sa u\u017e na svoj sp\u00f4sob \u017eivota a stravovania nebudete pozera\u0165 ako predt\u00fdm, preto\u017ee v knihe V\u00e1m bude poskytnut\u00fdch mno\u017estvo inform\u00e1ci\u00ed o cvi\u010den\u00ed a jedle. A omnoho \u00fa\u010dinnej\u0161\u00edm sp\u00f4sobom ako v akejko\u013evek motiva\u010dnej pr\u00edru\u010dke. Ak by niekto po mne chcel knihu, ktor\u00e1 ho nakopne a bude ho pritom bavi\u0165, tak bez ob\u00e1v mu odporu\u010d\u00edm t\u00fato. Preto\u017ee ak zvl\u00e1dnete spracova\u0165 autorov \u0161t\u00fdl, tak si ju u\u017eijete. Ide toti\u017e o ve\u013emi p\u00fatav\u00fd pr\u00edbeh, hoci miestami \u0161okuj\u00faci a drsn\u00fd. Prel\u00ednaj\u00fa sa tu viacer\u00e9 pr\u00edbehy, r\u00f4zne postavy a opisy prostred\u00ed. Pri\u010dom autor si neberie serv\u00edtky a zobrazuje pr\u00edbeh ve\u013emi realisticky, d\u00e1 sa poveda\u0165 a\u017e natur\u00e1lne. Nasto\u013euje ot\u00e1zky, na ktor\u00fdmi m\u00f4\u017eeme prem\u00fd\u0161\u013ea\u0165. Kam a\u017e sme ochotn\u00ed z\u00e1js\u0165, aby sme dosiahli to \u010do chceme a do akej miery m\u00f4\u017eeme zasahova\u0165 tomu druh\u00e9mu do \u017eivota? A m\u00e1me k tomu v\u00f4bec pr\u00e1vo? Mne sa t\u00e1to kniha ur\u010dite p\u00e1\u010dila a aj ke\u010f ma miestami \u0161okovala, stoj\u00ed za pre\u010d\u00edtanie. ...more<---C>Irvine Welsh</---C>", "Title": "The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins"},
