{"Comments": "Rating: 5* of five The Publisher Says : As Mother India approaches her centenary, nine people are going about their business\u2014a gangster,<---M> a cop</---M>, his wife, a politician, a stand-up comic, a set designer, a journalist, a scientist, and a dropout. And so is\u2014the waif, the mind reader, the prophet\u2014when she one day finds a man who wants to stay hidden. In the next few weeks, they will all be swept together to decide the fate of the nation. <+++>River of Gods</+++> teems with the life of a country choked with peoples Rating: 5* of five The Publisher Says : As Mother India approaches her centenary, nine people are going about their business\u2014a gangster, a cop, his wife, a politician, a stand-up comic, a set designer, a journalist, a scientist, and a dropout. And so is\u2014the waif, the mind reader, the prophet\u2014when she one day finds a man who wants to stay hidden. In the next few weeks, they will all be swept together to decide the fate of the nation. <+++>River of Gods</+++> teems with the life of a country choked with peoples and cultures\u2014one and a half billion people, twelve semi-independent nations, nine million gods. <---A>Ian McDonald</---A> has written the great Indian novel of the new millennium, in which a war is fought, a love betrayed, a message from a different world decoded, as the great river Ganges flows on.<---F> My Review : Ian McDonald</---F>. This is a name to conjure with, boys and girls. This is one fearless Irishman. This is a major major talent doing major major things. How dare he, how dare I, warble his praises when he, a white guy from the colonial oppressor state, has the temerity to write a science fiction novel about INDIA?!? There are scads of Indian writers and it's their country! Let *them* write their stories! Codswallop. Read the book. Then come and tell me it should have remained unwritten because of some nonsensical national pride hoo-hah. It's got every damn thing a reader could want: A new gender, the nutes, pronoun \u201cyt;\u201d a wholly new form of energy harvested from other universes; a political scandal-ridden politician who falls for our main nute character, despite his long marriage, and pursues yt desperately; a civil war a-brewin' over water rights in the now fragmented subcontinental political world; aeais (<---B>artificial intelligences</---B>) that are forbidden by law to exceed the Turing Test that establishes whether an entity is human or human-passable; and, as with any law, the lawbreakers who inevitably arise are hunted by a new breed of law enforcement officers, here called \u201cKrishna cops.\u201d Krishna being the Original God, Supreme Being, One Source in many parts of India, there is some justice to that, one supposes. Recapitulating the plot is pointless. This is a sprawling story, one that takes nine (!) main characters to tell. I felt there were two too many, and would entirely prune Lisa, the American physicist, and Ajmer, the spooky girl who sees the future, because those story lines were pretty much just muddying the waters for me. I thought the physicist on a quest, who then makes a giant discovery, which leads her back to the inventor of the aeais, could easily have been a novel all on its own, one that would fit in this universe that McDonald has summoned into being. I simply didn't care for or about Ajmer. The aeais' parent, Thomas Lull, is hidden away from the world in a dinky South Indian village. Yeah, right! Like the gummints of the world would let that happen! I know why McDonald did this, plot-wise, but it's just not credible to me. He could be demoted from player to bit part and simplify the vastness of the reader's task thereby. So why am I giving this book a perfect score? Because. If you need explanations: --The stories here are marvelously written. \u201cAnd you make me a target as well,\u201d Bernard hisses. \u201cYou don't think. You run in and shout and expect everyone to cheer because you're the hero.\u201d \u201cBernard, I've always known the only ass you're ultimately interested in is your own, but that is a new low.\u201d But the barb hits and hooks. She loves the action. She loves the dangerous seduction that it all looks like drama, like action movies. Delusion. Life is not drama. The climaxes and plot transitions are coincidence, or conspiracy. The hero can take a fall. The good guys can all die in the final reel. None of us can survive a life of screen drama. \u201cI don't know where else to go,\u201d she confesses weakly. He goes out shortly afterwards. The closing door sends a gust of hot air, stale with sweat and incense, through the rooms. The hanging nets and gauzes billow around the figure curled into a tight foetus. Najia chews at scaly skin on her thumb, wondering if she can do anything right. Krishan barely feels the rain. More than anything he wants to take Parvati away from this dying garden, out the doors down on to the street and never look back. But he cannot accept what he is being given. He is a small suburban gardener working from a room in his parents' house with a little three-wheeler van and a box of tools, who one day took a call from a beautiful woman who lived in a tower to build her a garden in the sky. Some of my favorite passages I can't put here, because they contain some of the many, many words and concepts that one needs\u2014and I do mean needs \u2014the glossary in the back of the book to fully appreciate. The concept of the book is breathtaking. Westerners don't usually see India as anything other than The Exotic Backdrop. McDonald sees the ethnic and religious tensions that India contains, barely, as we look at her half-century of independence ten years on (review written 2007) and contemplate the results of the Partition. He also sees the astounding and increasing vigor of the Indian economy, its complete willingness to embrace and employ any and all new ideas and techniques and leverage the staggeringly immense pool of talent the country possesses. McDonald also extrapolates the rather quiet but very real and strong trend towards India as a medical tourism destination: First-world trained doctors offering third-world priced medical care. This is the genesis of the nutes, people who voluntarily have all external gender indicators and all forms of gender identification surgically removed, their neural pathways rewired, and their social identities completely reinvented. Think about that for a minute. If your jaw isn't on the floor, if your imagination isn't completely boggled, then this book isn't for you and you should not even pick it up in the library to read the flap copy. If you're utterly astonished that an Irish dude from Belfast could winkle this kind of shit up from his depths, if you're so intrigued that you think it will cause you actual physical pain not to dive right in to this amazing book, you're my kind of people. Welcome, soul sibling, India 2047 awaits. May our journey never end. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more Plenty of bang for the buck, but it takes some bucks of effort to keep up with all the balls being juggled here. The nut theory of art applies here: that getting more out of a creation takes more effort. So despite having to set it aside for several months, I still give a top rating. The time is 2047 (40 years from the book\u2019s writing in 2007), and the setting is Varanasi, an ancient and holy city on the Ganges in north-central India. The intertwining voices of eleven main characters weave the tal Plenty of bang for the buck, but it takes some bucks of effort to keep up with all the balls being juggled here. The nut theory of art applies here: that getting more out of a creation takes more effort. So despite having to set it aside for several months, I still give a top rating. The time is 2047 (40 years from the book\u2019s writing in 2007), and the setting is Varanasi, an ancient and holy city on the Ganges in north-central India. The intertwining voices of eleven main characters weave the tale. A key set of four characters are all mysteriously linked: their portraits have been discovered in an alien artifact in space billions of years old. They are an American inventor of a software virtual world, his former colleague and lover who is now a CIA agent, a police agent who leads an artificial intelligence extermination force, and a spiritual young Indian woman with surprising powers of reading people and situations. Other colorful characters include a CEO of an energy development company, a female prime minister, a member of a new neuter gender, a key advisor to the prime minister scandalously in love with the \u201cnute\u201d, and a journalist who exposes the scandal and is after a scoop on secret agendas of advanced artificial intelligence beings (\u201caeais\u201d). So you can see there is quite a rich stew here. It doesn\u2019t make for casual reading. Fortunately, once I got adept at remembering the characters, I was progressively more eager to find out what they were up to. A few core threads in the plot should help you understand what is at stake in the tale, and thus aid in your decision to tackle it. The brahmin family\u2019s energy company has funded university scientists to produce essentially a \u201cpocket universe\u201d in a lab and is now on the verge of tapping it for infinite free energy. India also harbors the last few advanced aeais, a key to high tech industries such as a computer-generated virtual reality soap opera that has addicted much of the world. These developments pose a threat to a lot of governments and industries. The government in power wants to exterminate the aeais in accordance with fear-driven international law. Using virtual avatars, the aeies work to influence politics in favor of their survival and for unknown reasons invest heavily in the company trying to make a gateway to an alternate universe. All these characters and plot streams move toward a grand collision. There is a lot of rich social interaction in between military clashes and riots that often endanger them. The love affairs, betrayals, and selfish ambitions of the players in the tale make an interesting parallel with the aeai-created soap opera, \u201cTown and Country\u201d, while contrasting in their human drama with the inscrutable and hidden lives of the aeais themselves. As with McDonald\u2019s \u201cThe Dervish House\u201d, which was set in Istanbul, I found this earlier novel a lot of fun once the stories started converging. This pleasure was similar to the fun I had with Stephenson's \"Snow Crash.\" From my recent readings of popular scientific accounts, I feel McDonald made a brilliant effort in bringing alive some of the current ideas in theoretical physics and progress toward artificial intelligence. It\u2019s too bad the theories of the multiverse are stranger than fiction. Previously, only Stephenson\u2019s \u201cAnathem\u201d, did justice to my taste with the implications of these theories. The possibilities for the outcomes of \u201cthe singularity\u201d, when computer intelligence achieves self-consciousness and exceeds human thinking, are also explored with great skill. The story provides an alternative solution to the desperate competition featured in \u201cThe Blade Runner\u201d and the Terminator movies. The blend of all this classic sci fi adventure and the multiple cultures and religions of India was mind expanding. I was quite happy with McDonald\u2019s evocative prose. For example, he puts into the thoughts of an organized crime thug an attractive pragmatic and cynical outlook with respect to the ongoing technological advances and religious interpretations of them: He tilted his head back and watched the steam from the coffee curl up until he could, worth a squint, merge it with jet contrails. The Nepali Temple Ball said, believe: believe nothing is solid, everything is credible. It is a big universe. Shit. The universe was tight and mean and crammed into a wedge of brightness and music and skin a handful of decades long and no wider than your peripheral vision. People who believed otherwise were amateurs. I tuck a couple of other examples in these spoiler boxes for the potential reader to sample if interested. In the first, the computer scientist Thomas to his mysterious new friend Aj his view of the singularity event in a way that doesn\u2019t require a physics degree: (view spoiler) [Aeai is an alien intelligence. It\u2019s a response to specific environmental conditions and stimuli, and that environment is CyberEarth, where the rules are very very different from RealEarth. \u2026 Aeais do not need to manufacture stock market crashes or set the nukes flying or trash out planetary web to put humanity in its place; there is no competition, these things have no meaning or relevance in our universe . We\u2019re neighbors in parallel universes and as long as we live as neighbors we will live peacefully to our mutual advantage. But the Hamilton Act means we\u2019ve risen up against our neighbors and are driving them into annihilation. At some point they will fight, like anything will when its back is against the wall, and there will be a terrible, bitter battle. There\u2019s no battle more terrible than when the gods fight and we are each other\u2019s gods. \u2026 \u201cMaybe there\u2019s another way. \u2026 Maybe there doesn\u2019t have to be a war.\u201d \u201cWouldn\u2019t that be something? \u2026 Wouldn\u2019t that be a first? No no, this is the age of Kali.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] As an example of lyrical prose, here are the thoughts of the prime minister\u2019s cabinet member after being fired for his relationship with a nute, prompted by her query \u201cWhat did you think you could do with them?\u201d: (view spoiler) [It was never a doing thing, Shaheen Badoor Khan wants to exclaim. \u2026That\u2019s what the nutes have always understood. It is not about doing anything. It is about being. That is why we go there, to that club, to see, to be among creatures of our fantasies, creatures we have always longed to be but which we will never have the courage to become. For those brief burning stabs of beauty. As Shaheen Badoor Khan crunches back over the raked gravel to the state car, the dark trees and shrubs around him light up with birdsong. For a moment he thinks it is the singing ringing in his inner ear of all the lies that are his life rubbing past each other as they flock to the light. Then he realizes it is the overture of the dawn chorus, the herald birds that sing in the darkest of the night. Shaheen Badoor Khan stops, turns, lifts up his head, listens. The air is hot but piercingly clean and present. He breathes pure darkness. He senses the heavens in the dome above him, each star a pin of light spearing down into his heart. Shaheen Badoor Khan feels the universe wheel around him. He is at once axle and engine, subject and object, turned and turner. A tiny thing, a small song calling out with others into the vast dark. Time will smooth out hid deeds and misdeeds; history will flatten his name into general dust. It is nothing. (hide spoiler) ] ...more 6.0 stars. A staggering, literary achievement. McDonald is a superb author and this may be his best book ever. I was absolutely blown away by the original, well-thought ideas crammed into this book. Nominee: Arthur C. Clarke Award for Science Fiction Novel (2005) Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (2005) Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (2005) Winner: British Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (2005) You know you're probably not going to write a rave when you find yourself skimming hundreds of pages at a time to reach parts of the book that matter to the plot. Four things really bothered me about River of Gods , Ian MacDonald's latest about how humans will react when they create beings greater than themselves (i.e., AIs). In no particular order: 1. I'm not a Puritan - sex? profanity? violence? I can deal with it if it's part of the plot or character but outside of romance novels or explicitly p You know you're probably not going to write a rave when you find yourself skimming hundreds of pages at a time to reach parts of the book that matter to the plot. Four things really bothered me about River of Gods , Ian MacDonald's latest about how humans will react when they create beings greater than themselves (i.e., AIs). In no particular order: 1. I'm not a Puritan - sex? profanity? violence? I can deal with it if it's part of the plot or character but outside of romance novels or explicitly pornographic ones most authors should really stay away from sex beyond the implied. Imaginative readers can supply their own scenes; real \"Puritans\" will be happy enough not to have to deal with it. Violence belongs in the same category. I may have become oversensitized to its frequency but I found MacDonald guilty of insipid sex scenes and gratuitous violence too often for my comfort zone. 2. Too many unimportant and uninspired characters (engaging in pointless sex and mayhem). For example, in the \"Kalki\" section, POV shifts nine times in 100 pages. In terms of the plot, only three characters (Lisa Durnau, Thomas Lull and Mr. Nandha) are crucial to the story, which could have been told in a long short story or novella. 3. Uninspired writing. Beyond the basic story (which I found tame, formulaic, and relied too heavily on the deus-ex-machina antics of the AIs), MacDonald's evocation of a near-future India just kind of falls flat. I didn't believe it. Despite protestations to the contrary from various characters, I never felt I was seeing the world in a uniquely \"Indian\" or \"Hindu\" point of view, rather than the point of view of a Western observer. (And before you complain that I only \"skimmed\" it, how could I really know, I was faithfully reading every word up through page 200 or so. Plenty of time to establish bona fides, IMO.) 4. My last issue with the novel is that I've read it before. Or it feels that way. I'm not a great fan of this kind of near-future, urban, cyber-punkish SF, so it takes a particularly talented author to hold my attention - early Alastair Reynolds (oh, I hope he can return to form soon), Dan Simmons (off and on), Tony Daniel, Iain Banks, A.A. Attanasio, among others - and MacDonald didn't in this case. None of the reasons above were sufficient to make this book a failure for me; I have plenty of three-stars on my shelf that are guilty of one or more of the above offenses. Together, however, they conspired in this caper to make the experience of reading less enjoyable than the author probably intended it to be. ...more Drawing on 60\u2019s New Wave SF(especially Brunner's Stand on Zanzibar), Cyberpunk, and the mainstream novel, McDonald pulls off this incredibly ambitious novel. A near future India broken into different countries and three sexes(a new pronoun is used) which the reader gets immersed in through nine intertwining character lines. This is a future that lives and breathes and is incredibly convincing, and even though the technology is quite interesting(including a frightening look at cybernetic warfare Drawing on 60\u2019s New Wave SF(especially Brunner's Stand on Zanzibar), Cyberpunk, and the mainstream novel, McDonald pulls off this incredibly ambitious novel. A near future India broken into different countries and three sexes(a new pronoun is used) which the reader gets immersed in through nine intertwining character lines. This is a future that lives and breathes and is incredibly convincing, and even though the technology is quite interesting(including a frightening look at cybernetic warfare and artificial intelligence ), it is the characters that move this thing along. You can\u2019t help but root for all of them, even though they show several shades of gray, and feel as they fail, escape, or meet tragedy. An amazon review(I believe) wrote that all the sex in this book was related to anger, which I couldn\u2019t disagree with more as I found all the sex, well was actually sexy, which is a rare breath of fresh air. Wars about water, new genders, a soap opera entirely run by AIs, cybernetic wars, quantum mechanics, genetically created sabertooth tigers, and political intrigue, are among the speculative elements in this book, and these with the deftly handled ensemble caste should make this appeal equally to fans of speculative and mainstream lit. ...more When you pick this up and hold the hard cover in your hands, its heft is a little intimidating. When you put it down 597 pages later, you\u2019ll wonder how he managed to keep it so focused, how he kept it from wandering all over the place. Not that it doesn\u2019t have a tremendous scope (borders on \u201cepic\u201d but I feel I must reserve that adjective for a space opera review) but McDonald keeps it moving at an aggressive pace. Every back alley detour and out-of-town foray is very deliberate and very much par When you pick this up and hold the hard cover in your hands, its heft is a little intimidating. When you put it down 597 pages later, you\u2019ll wonder how he managed to keep it so focused, how he kept it from wandering all over the place. Not that it doesn\u2019t have a tremendous scope (borders on \u201cepic\u201d but I feel I must reserve that adjective for a space opera review) but McDonald keeps it moving at an aggressive pace. Every back alley detour and out-of-town foray is very deliberate and very much part of the storytelling. I won\u2019t go on at length about the Indian-post-cyberpunk-scifi-omg-wtf-how-awesome-is-that?-ness that you might have seen elsewhere. I\u2019ll keep it at this: it was well-chosen, well-developed, and in the end made sense. (Which is to say that putting it in India... excuse me: Bharat didn\u2019t feel like some cloying, waste-of-time, you\u2019re-just-doing-this-to-be-cute gimmick.) While I wouldn\u2019t say that it was totally new or ground-breaking fiction, McDonald moves this piece along efficiently and engages you with some well-developed characters. The \u201clike an Indian Neuromancer\u201d comparisons floating around out there are not far off. That being said, it\u2019s a more mature, more sophisticated Neuromancer. The text wants for nothing and (I would say) achieves its goals quite well. McDonald\u2019s treatment of \u201cthe Singularity\u201d here is delivered in a palpable, sympathetic way: You invent your own doom. If this novel is indicative of the quality of McDonald\u2019s other work: I\u2019m there. original: [ http://blog.founddrama.net/2007/04/ri... ] ...more I respect what Ian was trying to do with this novel, I really do, but his ambition, I think, exceeded the execution to the point of muddling ambiguity. Mr. MacDonald's a wordsmith, there's not doubt about it, and some of his descriptions are small morsels of pure prose desert. He is truly a master of the language and plays with it beautifully. The issue, however, is that one will read pages, perhaps a chapter, and realize how very little actually occurred in the scene and how little it contribut I respect what Ian was trying to do with this novel, I really do, but his ambition, I think, exceeded the execution to the point of muddling ambiguity. Mr. MacDonald's a wordsmith, there's not doubt about it, and some of his descriptions are small morsels of pure prose desert. He is truly a master of the language and plays with it beautifully. The issue, however, is that one will read pages, perhaps a chapter, and realize how very little actually occurred in the scene and how little it contributes to the overall story. It's very self-indulgent, like an arena-band guitar solo. He's showing off and we can all tell. It scrambles the story and by bombarding the reader with lengthy Indian names, it makes the reading tedious. By including an inadequate glossary in the back, it's almost admitting the problem. Yes, Mr MacDonald, we're aware of your fountain of Indian cultural knowledge, but by beating us over the head repeatedly... it comes off as a bit of a middle-finger. And to the story and plot itself... The novel's why too long. What could have been accomplished here, could have been accomplished without four or five of the main characters, and a cool 350 pages as opposed to epic level 580 pages. By attempting to cover too many esoteric pontifications on reality and this AI polyverse extrapolation, he more or less draws and quarters his plot, leaving the remnants a bloody incomplete blob. So many questions get thrown at the reader with so very few answers, with little over fifty pages left to go in this overwritten beast, I had that uncomfortable 'Lost' feeling a few episodes before its series finale. A sloppy attempt is made at tying up the loose ends, but when it comes to the characters resolutions, the reader's left cold. When it came to the 'future-shock' element, Ian wasn't able to deliver. This did not have that Neuromancer cyberpunk strangeness. Sadly, for a book meant to take place in 2047, too many pop references felt dated in 2010. The Zeitgeist of this novel is definitely 2005, not 2047. I have not been to India, but the one described in City of Gods, felt very 00's, more or less the India of today but with robots and gadgets... the cultural shift wasn't there. For that type of fair, I would recommend Paolo Bacagullupi's The Windup Girl, a similar setting in Thailand, but the world is truly a product of its future era, the detail much more ironed, less extrapolation and more futurism. I would like to read more of Ian's stuff, but would hope I could find something more to the point, less characters, and less overwrought. This novel was just to self-indulgent and I think undeserving of its high praise. ...more The one set in a near-future India, where a non-natural object is found in the asteroid belt which is older than the solar system and contains pictures of three humans currently alive. Leadership and scientific struggles at the nation's largest power company; a religious revolt; a Muslim government minister brought down by his passion for an artificial third gender called nutes; AIs thousands of times more intelligent than humans, outlawed and hunted down by a police branch called Krishna Cops. I The one set in a near-future India, where a non-natural object is found in the asteroid belt which is older than the solar system and contains pictures of three humans currently alive. Leadership and scientific struggles at the nation's largest power company; a religious revolt; a Muslim government minister brought down by his passion for an artificial third gender called nutes; AIs thousands of times more intelligent than humans, outlawed and hunted down by a police branch called Krishna Cops. I would have been willing to sacrifice a good deal of this breadth for just a little depth. The characters are chessmen: they have a certain set of characteristics at the start of the book, a certain pattern of moves, and they make those moves, and at the end of the book their circumstances may have changed, but the characters themselves are entirely unchanged, unless they're dead. This is a grand old SF characterization tradition, of course, and at least these characters are plausible, unlike the Buck Rogers-style SF characters -- but still, in the end they don't read as real people because they walk through their established paces without changing. I found the politics completely opaque, but I'm ignorant of Indian politics (and even geography) and probably didn't read carefully enough. I have a serious problem with the nutes. They should be utterly alien -- they've had all gender-related pathways removed from their brains and their body chemistry, in favor of a system by which they consciously control their hormone release (Tal decides it needs adrenaline, so it pushes a button) -- and yet they act either like very girly women or like very stereotypically diva-ish gay men. Possibly this wouldn't trouble me quite so much if there were any actual gay people in the story, but there aren't. And except for Vishram Ray (who I find is the only major character I have any real affection for), there's really no normal sexuality in the book -- when arousal is reported, most of the time it's related to cruelty or danger. The thing that interests me most -- the AIs and their stories -- is covered in about three pages at the end and then rushed offstage. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) As I've mentioned here several times before, there are many of us science-fiction fans who believe that the industry has entered a whole new \"age\" in the last ten years, one major enough to be compared to the four eras that came before it (to be specific, the historic \"Golden Age\" of the 1930s and '4 (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) As I've mentioned here several times before, there are many of us science-fiction fans who believe that the industry has entered a whole new \"age\" in the last ten years, one major enough to be compared to the four eras that came before it (to be specific, the historic \"Golden Age\" of the 1930s and '40s; the Modernist-influenced \"Silver Age\" of the '50s and '60s; the countercultural \"New Age\" of the '60s and '70s; and the angsty, postmodern \"Dark Age\" of the '80s and '90s); I myself have mostly been calling this new post-9/11 period the \"Accelerated Age\" (after the Charles Stross novel) and also sometimes the \"Diamond Age\" (after the Neal Stephenson one), although of course the fan community as a whole hasn't yet collectively agreed on a term, and probably won't until the age itself is over. And in the best historical tradition, this age is mostly defined in opposition to the period that came right before it; unlike the Dark Age, for example, Accelerated-Age tales tend to be overly optimistic about the future, many times bypassing our current political messes altogether to instead picture how our society might work hundreds or even thousands of years from now, with a whole series of scientific conceits that tend to pop up in book after book, thus defining it as a unified \"age\" to begin with -- sentient computers; the effortless mixing of the biological and mechanical (otherwise known as the Singularity); a \"post-scarcity\" society where food is artificially created and money no longer exists; practical immortality through a combination of inexpensive cloning and \"brain backups\" to infinitely powerful hard drives; and a lot more. And also like the eras that came before it, the Accelerated Age is mostly being defined through a loose handful of authors who all seem to sorta know each other, or at the very least always seem to be mentioned together in conversations on the topic -- people like the aforementioned Stross and Stephenson, Cory Doctorow, Justina Robson, John Scalzi, Robert J Sawyer, Jeff Vandermeer and more (although to be fair, Mr. Vandermeer has criticized me publicly in the past for lumping all these people together, which I suppose marks the main difference between him as an actual practitioner and me as simply a fan); but out of all these post-9/11 SF authors, it seems sometimes that the one who gets the most consistent amount of praise of them all is Ian McDonald, an Englishman by birth who's lived most of his life in Northern Ireland, part of the much ballyhooed \"British Invasion\" of the early 2000s which is yet another big calling-card of the Accelerated Age. And this is ironic, because the majority of McDonald's work does not fit the typical Accelerated-Age mold whatsoever; in fact, what McDonald is mostly known for among fans is being the so-called \"heir to cyberpunk,\" the subgenre from the '80s that mostly defined the Dark Age before him. And that's because McDonald is a master of taking day-after-tomorrow concepts and marrying them to the dirty, sweaty here-and-now, which is exactly what such classic cyberpunk authors as William Gibson and Bruce Sterling did in the '80s to become famous in the first place, itself a rebellious response to the shiny, clean visions of such Silver-Age authors as Arthur C. Clarke and Isaac Asimov; but unlike this first wave of cyberpunk authors, McDonald does this uniting not among the smoky back alleys of America and western Europe, but rather in the trash-filled slums of such emerging regions as Africa and South America (see for example my review last year of his latest novel, Brasyl ), delivering an entire series of third-world fever-dreams that could've never even been imagined by the trenchcoated fans of '80s science-fiction. And it's all this that finally leads us to what's arguably McDonald's most famous book, River of Gods , originally published in the UK in 2004 and then a few years later in the US by our friends over at Pyr, considered by a whole lot of people to be the single best SF novel on the planet in the last ten years; and I'm happy to report that I just finished the book myself, after recently receiving the brand-new related book of short stories Cyberabad Days , and essentially begging the good folks at Pyr* for a copy of the original so that I could catch up, an incredibly slow yet pleasurable reading experience that took me six weeks altogether, hampered in my case by first having a bad bicycle accident right after starting, then being on a whole series of powerful narcotics the rest of the time, which one could argue made the reading experience even better than normal, but unfortunately also dropped my concentration level to nearly zero, which is why it took me so freaking long to get through these two books in the first place. Whew! And after finishing it myself, I have to confess that the hype is mostly warranted; if this isn't maybe the single best SF novel of the entire Accelerated Age so far, it's at least in the top five, an infinitely rewarding experience that made me almost immediately want to start all over again on page one after initially finishing. And a big part of this, frankly, is just in its setting alone; because for those who don't know, this is one of the first English-language books in SF history to be set in India, a part of the world that in just the last few years has suddenly become a red-hot topic among an ever-growing amount of Americans and Europeans. And that's because we're in the middle of watching one of the most fascinating moments in that region's entire history, the moment when the population of India is pulling itself kicking and screaming out of third-world status and into the first world; and yes, I know, this is an inherently insulting term to even begin with, a classification dreamt up by rich white males in the middle of the Industrial Age mostly as a way to differentiate themselves from non-whites, which of course is part of what makes it so fascinating, to see whether terms like these are even applicable anymore in this multicultural age of ours. You see, for Westerners who don't know, India in the 21st century is a giant mass of contradictions, a big reason why it's suddenly becoming of such interest to so many in the West in the first place: it's the world's largest secular democracy, for example, yet with a sizable minority (and growing every day) who believes the country should instead be run under a Hindu-based theocracy, much like how the Muslim nations around them are fundamentally based on Islamic law; it's been a politically unified whole since 1947 now, yet for thousands of years before that was actually a series of constantly warring mini-kingdoms, part of what allowed the British to so easily take over the entire region in the 1700s; and speaking of which, it's a country with infinitely complicated thoughts about its past as a British colony, proud of its Victorian heritage and widespread knowledge of English, even while rightly ashamed of the various indignities it suffered under the so-called \"Raj\" of the 19th and early 20th centuries. It's a nation which desperately wishes to be the next great international hub for education and technology, yet a nation where tens of millions still go without electricity, without indoor plumbing; a nation virtually ruled by its explosively growing middle class, yet experiencing all the same bourgeois-based problems as the British did two centuries ago when its own middle class first exploded, a nation where Jane Austen storylines are literally played out in real life every day. McDonald perfectly understands the drama inherent in such a situation, and puts all these issues to great use in River of Gods , although be warned from the start that you Westerners will need to do a bit of homework to fully appreciate it; as mentioned, for example, you will need to know a little about the longstanding conflict there between Hindus and Muslims (and a little about the Hindu religion in the first place), a little about India's ancient caste system, a little about its former history as a series of warring mini-states, a little about the growing gap between traditional Indian life (think housewives in saris and cows roaming the streets) and modern Indian life (think two-earner families in business suits and clutching iPhones). And that's because this is a major theme of River of Gods as well, the growing divide between old third-world India and the gleaming first-world vision it wants to become, with the entire novel set in the year 2047, the 100th anniversary of the area becoming a unified independent nation in the first place. Ah, but see, there's trouble in paradise in McDonald's world, which is why it's so important to have a basic understanding of all these cultural issues; just to mention one important example, in River of Gods India isn't even a unified country anymore by 2047, after global warming led to a period of severe drought there in the early 21st century, leading to a breakdown into regional states again and a series of bloody civil-war skirmishes over the dwindling water supply. We then mostly follow the fate of one of these states -- \"Bharat,\" comprising the northeast corner of the former nation, with the religious mecca of Varanasi its new capital...or \"Varanasi 2.0\" if you will, a head-spinning mix of the ancient and the cutting-edge, with thousand-year-old ghats along the Ganges River now sitting in the shadows of mountainside skyscrapers and maglev trains. The actual storyline of River of Gods is best left as secret as possible, which is why I'm going to largely skip over it today; but I will say that in the best cyberpunk tradition, it's actually made up of a half-dozen smaller storylines that each stand on their own, almost impossible at first to determine how they fit together until getting closer and closer to the end, and as the lives of the hundred or so major and minor characters on display start interweaving more and more. And I can also mention that the story here is a dense-enough one and laden with enough local issues and terms to make one think that McDonald must be an expat who has spent a substantial amount of time in India himself (and don't forget, by the way, that there's a glossary of terms at the end of the book); and this is in fact one of the other things McDonald is known for, because the fact of the matter (as he has confirmed many times in past interviews) is that the vast majority of his books' details come merely from page-based academic research, along with just a minimum amount of actual traveling through the region in question, almost all of it simply tourist-based traveling instead of pseudo-native backpacker-style. How he manages to turn in novel after novel of such depth using only traditional book-based research is a mystery that sometimes borders on the magical; and it's precisely this that makes McDonald so intensely loved by certain types of literary fans out there, and is precisely one of the reasons so many consider River of Gods the best SF novel written in the last decade. And then as far as this book's companion piece, Cyberabad Days , the main reason I was sent the pair of volumes in the first place, it's pretty much what you expect -- a collection of standalone short stories all set in the same world as River of Gods , that McDonald has written for various magazines over the last five years, published together here as a whole for the very first time, with all the traditional good and bad things that come with such minor story collections. Surprisingly, though, instead of needing to first read River of Gods for this companion volume to make sense (as is usually the case in these situations), Cyberabad Days actually exists as a great primer to get yourself ready for the bigger main novel; because also in good cyberpunk tradition, in River of Gods McDonald simply drops you right in the middle of things at first, not bothering to explain any of the details of the situation itself but instead letting the reader slowly pick them up here and there over the first 200 pages of that 600-page tome, something that diehard SF fans love but that can drive others a little batty. That of course is one of the biggest benefits of the short-story format in general, is that authors are simply forced to explain things in a much shorter period of time; for those of you who like getting your backstory out of the way quickly, you may actually benefit from tackling the companion book first before even trying the main novel in question. I have to admit, out of all the books I could've gotten stuck with during a long convalescence from a major accident, I could've done a lot worse than these two; and now after taking my sweet time with them both, I can very easily see why people continue to go so nuts over McDonald's vision of a future India, even half a decade after he first started laying this vision out. It's one of the great pleasures of being a science-fiction book critic in the early 2000s, in my opinion -- a chance to be reading and reviewing this literature right when it's first being written and published, that is -- and after taking in now a pretty fair amount of ultra-contemporary SF, I have to confess that I too have become a pretty slavish fanboy of McDonald. If you're looking for stories that elevate themselves above the usual tropes of the genre, you can't really go wrong by picking up this groundbreaking saga; here's hoping that McDonald has lots more of them in store for us down the road. *And by the way, all kidding aside, I do want to thank the hardworking PR staff at Pyr once again for all their help; over the last year I've probably requested at least a dozen old backtitles from their catalog, and in every case they've sent them along with a smile and nary a complaint, not to mention of course all the new titles they're actively seeking publicity for, a huge difference in attitude from some other SF publishers who shall remain nameless. It's a common trait among a lot of publishing companies these days, to treat litbloggers like sh-t, so I always appreciate it when coming across companies like Pyr who take bloggers as seriously as any other book reviewers out there. ...more A kitchen sink novel of catastrophe, salacious sex, and gritty businessisms buoyed together amidst a well-executed cohesion of theme, culture, and linguistic rhythms. McDonald throws it all in: AI, multiverse theory, Urban Combat Robots, media obsession, third gender and does it with style and purpose. A world where gods and data collide. on reading the synopsis i really wanted this to be something akin to The Windup Girl but what i got was more of an anthropological study mixed with a dull political intrigue thriller. the science fiction aspect was minimal but the major plus is the realistic depiction of a near future society, one that could quite easily happen within the timeframe set out. i wanted something excellent and i got something simply ok that was actually a chore to finish. i'm left with a disappointment in a novel for on reading the synopsis i really wanted this to be something akin to The Windup Girl but what i got was more of an anthropological study mixed with a dull political intrigue thriller. the science fiction aspect was minimal but the major plus is the realistic depiction of a near future society, one that could quite easily happen within the timeframe set out. i wanted something excellent and i got something simply ok that was actually a chore to finish. i'm left with a disappointment in a novel for the first time in quite some time. i've heard good things about Ian McDonald and I hope that this early work is a blip and when i get round to reading dervish house i will be as impressed as i hoped to be by this one. i've been talking about this book all week whilst i read, stopping along the way to try to verbalise my issues with it, forcing anyone who would listen to hear my disgruntled mumblings. and now it is your turn people of good reads. these are my major gripes. i) there are way too many central characters to keep track of. in some instances this can pay off massively but for me it just got confusing and boring. ii) the action seemed to happen in between the chapters so all you're ever reading is peoples reactions and the build up to the next action. this was frastrating. again in moderation this is a great way to tell stories but in the end i stopped caring. iii) the payoff wasn't worth the effort. the penultimate chapter is over 100 pages long, everything was looking like it was coming to a dramatic conclusion but it was more of a damp squib. iv) the use of 100 words when 2 would do. this seems churlish of me to say on a site dedicated to lovers of the written word and if i'd been engrossed in the story and characters i probably wouldnt have even noticed but as it was i found myself picking fault. so theres my moan, an intereting idea turned in to an ok novel. ...more A unique science fiction tale of India at its centenary told through the inter-locking tales of nine extremely different characters. There is Mr. Nandha,the Krishna cop tasked with exterminating artificial intelligence s (or aeais as the book terms them) who break beyond their programming restrictions to a higher threshold of intelligence. There is Shiv, a gangster fallen on hard times forced to work for genetically-engineered titans. There is Tal, a nute (or neutral-gendered person) drawn into i A unique science fiction tale of India at its centenary told through the inter-locking tales of nine extremely different characters. There is Mr. Nandha,the Krishna cop tasked with exterminating artificial intelligence s (or aeais as the book terms them) who break beyond their programming restrictions to a higher threshold of intelligence. There is Shiv, a gangster fallen on hard times forced to work for genetically-engineered titans. There is Tal, a nute (or neutral-gendered person) drawn into intrigues far beyond yts comprehension. There is Thomas Lull, a professor who designed digital worlds that gave birth to a multitude of smaller aeais before running away from it all to live on a leaky boat in Southern India. Most importantly there is Aj, an orphan searching for her origins while all around her India is crumbling into chaos and disaster. McDonald crafts an intricate story that comes together into a beautiful ending that hits every aspect of what I enjoy in sci-fi. ...more Le sobran metros de papel. Muchos. Le falta profundizar m\u00e1s obre los personajes principales y quiz\u00e1s le sobren algunos secundarios. Como siempre con McDonald la primera mitad del libro es pura creaci\u00f3n de escenarios, el tercer cuarto para dar una idea de lo que quiere contar y el resto es un carrera desenfrenada hacia el abismo. This book is much like the country it takes place in. You get off the plane, go through immigration where notions of standing or cuing in line are meaningless. People always cut in front of you or that family of 20 is holding place for the other 20 that are coming. You get your luggage and have to fight the man who is trying to help you,meaning he is going to grab your suitcases, put them on a cart and try to take you to his taxi,hotel or whatever other service he may be in cahoots with. It is n This book is much like the country it takes place in. You get off the plane, go through immigration where notions of standing or cuing in line are meaningless. People always cut in front of you or that family of 20 is holding place for the other 20 that are coming. You get your luggage and have to fight the man who is trying to help you,meaning he is going to grab your suitcases, put them on a cart and try to take you to his taxi,hotel or whatever other service he may be in cahoots with. It is not free. You get away from the luggage man, make your way to the pre-paid taxi service (because this is easier than haggling, trust me please) walk outside and into a wall of heat,humidity, noise and a sea of humanity. All you can do at this point is find your pre-paid taxi and get the hotel you have booked online. But before you can get to the hotel, you must ride in the taxi. I suggest closing your eyes or looking strait ahead. Yelling in fear will do noting to make the madness stop. (When my son was 6 we were in an auto rickshaw, he covered his eyes). Upon arrival to the hotel, you are scanned, your luggage is scanned and your enter what is believed to be a place of rest and respite. You check in, another man comes to take your luggage, this time you are helpless. He takes it and you follow. He escorts you to your room, and then you must pay him money. They always ask for your foreign currency. Do not do this. (I forgot to mention the money changer at the airport before the pre-paid taxi, do not change all your money, the rate is not the best) Depending upon the hotel 30-50 rupees should be enough. It is ok to literally push him out if he doesn't leave. You sit on the bed and ask yourself where am I? Did I really want to come here? You go out see the sites, eat the food. Get sick. You have moments of utter despair and helplessness. Nothing makes sense. It is am insane place. You consider cutting the trip short and getting the fuck out. You find yourself at a food stall...the food is unbelievable. Amazing. Best thing you have ever ate. Then you look around, people are friendly, brightly colored, and then you see how beautiful it all is. You find the reason behind the madness. You can't believe you were considering cutting the trip short and running home. And you immerse yourself. You don't want to leave ever. EVER. The world makes more sense than it ever did. You think you have found HOME. This book is like India (I said that earlier). It will be loved or hated. No in between. There is no compromise. It is one way or the other. The author gets everything right. EVERYTHING. I recommend this to anyone, but I can't say you will love it. I can't promise you will find the beauty. But it brought me back HOME. ...more Please read the full review on Weighing A Pig (...) Ultimately, the story of this book could have taken place anywhere, and India mainly serves as a metaphor for the complexity of our planet and our species. It also makes for a colorful backdrop, and the Indian pantheon allows easy links with software avatars. All that doesn\u2019t take away the feeling I have that the reason McDonald chose India as the story\u2019s setting has more to do with the stereotypical images we Westerners tend to have of India: ev Please read the full review on Weighing A Pig (...) Ultimately, the story of this book could have taken place anywhere, and India mainly serves as a metaphor for the complexity of our planet and our species. It also makes for a colorful backdrop, and the Indian pantheon allows easy links with software avatars. All that doesn\u2019t take away the feeling I have that the reason McDonald chose India as the story\u2019s setting has more to do with the stereotypical images we Westerners tend to have of India: ever rising population numbers, lots of religions intersecting, an emerging technological powerhouse full of IT PhDs working for minimum wage, mad ascetic gurus, etc., etc. The fact that McDonald also wrote a Brazilian and a Turkish book \u2013 both of which I\u2019ll willingly read somewhere in the future \u2013 makes me think the setting is more of a gimmick and a technique, and not a necessity internal to the story. That\u2019s not a fault per se, and an author\u2019s prerogative. McDonald shows both respect and has done heaps of research. But as a reader, I don\u2019t have the feeling that I learned a lot about India. My preconceptions were reinforced, that\u2019s about it. Again, not a fault per se: it\u2019s impossible to get to know something as large as a nation through a book, and expecting that is questionable in itself. (...) ...more I doubt it's intentional, but Ian McDonald seems to be translating the great treasures of magical realism into scifi, and doing it masterfully. Where Desolation Road reads rather like One Hundred Years of Solitude set on Mars, River of Gods feels like someone gave Salman Rushdie a time machine so he could rewrite Midnight's Children a hundred years later. The result is something completely new, and breathtakingly imaginative and ambitious. The plot reads like magical realism, but McDonald has ap I doubt it's intentional, but Ian McDonald seems to be translating the great treasures of magical realism into scifi, and doing it masterfully. Where Desolation Road reads rather like One Hundred Years of Solitude set on Mars, River of Gods feels like someone gave Salman Rushdie a time machine so he could rewrite Midnight's Children a hundred years later. The result is something completely new, and breathtakingly imaginative and ambitious. The plot reads like magical realism, but McDonald has applied Arthur C. Clarke's maxim, and replaced the magic with developing future technologies that blur the line between science and magic, physics and metaphysics. McDonald's future India is fantastical and foreign, and yet plausible, a world as detailed as the computer-modeled town that future-India's AI-simulated soap opera actors think they live in when they're not acting on CGI sets. ...more This is one substantial story - both in sheer mass of the book, and in the plot itself. McDonald tells the story of India, 50 years into the future. I find his speculation on what may happen to India is believable, and his spec fic elements are plausible. The culture of India seems particularly suited to McDonald's storytelling style - he brings together all of his plots coherently, finding a certain underlying theme to the chaotic and disparate subplots he's working with. The tale is voyeuristic This is one substantial story - both in sheer mass of the book, and in the plot itself. McDonald tells the story of India, 50 years into the future. I find his speculation on what may happen to India is believable, and his spec fic elements are plausible. The culture of India seems particularly suited to McDonald's storytelling style - he brings together all of his plots coherently, finding a certain underlying theme to the chaotic and disparate subplots he's working with. The tale is voyeuristic, as fits a nation of more than a billion people living all in close physical and social proximity to each other. It is mystical, seeming to dance along a thin line between Gods as genuinely real and Gods as metaphor. It is brutal in places and visceral. I've long been a fan of McDonald's short fiction. This is the second novel of his I've read, and it's a powerful work, taking all of the finely crafted intensity of his short stories and retooling it to the wider expanses of a full novel. ...more I read about this book in a study of postcolonial science fiction, and was motivated to want to read it. It's vast and sprawling in a way that enables it to do justice to its subject. The setting is Bharat, a portion of what once was India, in 2047; Bharat is at war with one of the other former-Indian countries, sectarian violence continues, there is a long-term drought emergency, and meanwhile a flourishing entertainment industry. Most importantly are the aeai, the sentient artificial intellige I read about this book in a study of postcolonial science fiction, and was motivated to want to read it. It's vast and sprawling in a way that enables it to do justice to its subject. The setting is Bharat, a portion of what once was India, in 2047; Bharat is at war with one of the other former-Indian countries, sectarian violence continues, there is a long-term drought emergency, and meanwhile a flourishing entertainment industry. Most importantly are the aeai, the sentient artificial intelligences behind much of the everyday functions of the society. Some of the characters and their narratives were more compelling than others; there is a mix of perspective between South Asian and foreign (American and European) viewpoint characters, as well as male and female (and one particularly memorable character, Tal, the nute, who is neither). The majority of them were interesting, though I didn't find them all equally believable or well-developed. Perhaps one or two fewer storylines might have given McDonald space to spend more time with his characters; there was a level of depth beyond which the story rarely went. Most of the South Asian narratives I've read in recent years have been by South Asian writers, and I wondered how an Irish writer was going to handle it. In fact, McDonald's done a good job with language and culture. His imagined future India is vividly portrayed in some places, less so in others; I have taught Rushdie's Midnight's Children a number of times (with many consequent rereads), which leaves me with very high expectations. This doesn't quite meet them, but then, it's a very different sort of novel. ...more I had great difficulties reading the first half of the book because I mainly read it on the tram, on my way to and from work. And this isn't a kind of book you just read for 20 minutes a day. Too much stuff going on you just know it's going to be relevant later. I finished reading it on my vacation when I couldn't put it down. Everything came together in most interesting and delightful way, taking me by surprise. Masterful storytelling and a story beyond ages and universes, combining tradition a I had great difficulties reading the first half of the book because I mainly read it on the tram, on my way to and from work. And this isn't a kind of book you just read for 20 minutes a day. Too much stuff going on you just know it's going to be relevant later. I finished reading it on my vacation when I couldn't put it down. Everything came together in most interesting and delightful way, taking me by surprise. Masterful storytelling and a story beyond ages and universes, combining tradition and futurism in a country that sounds almost alien to a Southeastern European. I highly recommend it to everyone who like a little depth in their science fiction, but without too much artificial drama and without preaching whatsoever. ...more Interesting concepts, but dramatically overwritten and hard to follow because he's colored his prose a deep purple. See what I did there? I totally used a silly turn of phrase to make a simple statement more confusing. Gosh I'm so clever. That's kind of how his writing style feels. Od dawna nie mia\u0142em takiego problemu z ocen\u0105 ksi\u0105\u017cki jak przy tym, pierwszym zreszt\u0105, spotkaniu z Ian'em McDonald'em. Osadzenie akcji w Indiach nie by\u0142oby prawdopodobnie niczym niezwyk\u0142ym, gdyby nie mn\u00f3stwo zapo\u017cycze\u0144 z hinduskiego i wyj\u0105tkowo precyzyjne budowanie t\u0142a powie\u015bci. Do tego autor zadba\u0142 o bogate przedstawienie historii wielu postaci, kt\u00f3re na pocz\u0105tku zupe\u0142nie niezale\u017cne, po jakim\u015b czasie zaczynaj\u0105 si\u0119 coraz bardziej przenika\u0107. Osi\u0105gni\u0119cia my\u015bli ludzkiej dotycz\u0105ce sztucznej inteligen Od dawna nie mia\u0142em takiego problemu z ocen\u0105 ksi\u0105\u017cki jak przy tym, pierwszym zreszt\u0105, spotkaniu z Ian'em McDonald'em. Osadzenie akcji w Indiach nie by\u0142oby prawdopodobnie niczym niezwyk\u0142ym, gdyby nie mn\u00f3stwo zapo\u017cycze\u0144 z hinduskiego i wyj\u0105tkowo precyzyjne budowanie t\u0142a powie\u015bci. Do tego autor zadba\u0142 o bogate przedstawienie historii wielu postaci, kt\u00f3re na pocz\u0105tku zupe\u0142nie niezale\u017cne, po jakim\u015b czasie zaczynaj\u0105 si\u0119 coraz bardziej przenika\u0107. Osi\u0105gni\u0119cia my\u015bli ludzkiej dotycz\u0105ce sztucznej inteligencji oraz fizyki zosta\u0142y potraktowane niebanalnie, co wszelki fanom hard sf powinno szczeg\u00f3lnie przypa\u015b\u0107 do gustu. Czytaj\u0105c \"Rzek\u0119 Bog\u00f3w\" mo\u017cna si\u0119 w pe\u0142ni zanurzy\u0107 w przedstawiany \u015bwiat, poniewa\u017c jest on bardziej ekstrapolowany z naszego obecnego, ni\u017c zupe\u0142nie wymy\u015blany od pocz\u0105tku. O tyle to przyjemne, co i wiarygodne. Pod wzgl\u0119dem rozmachu fabu\u0142y, jako\u015bci j\u0119zyka i czysto literackim to jest dzie\u0142o wybitne. Momentami niestety cholernie m\u0119cz\u0105ce. Przebrni\u0119cie przez pocz\u0105tek ksi\u0105\u017cki by\u0142o ju\u017c pewnym wyzwaniem, a i p\u00f3\u017aniejsze skakanie przez autora mi\u0119dzy r\u00f3\u017cnymi w\u0105tkami wymaga\u0142o du\u017co skupienia. G\u0142\u00f3wna fabu\u0142a by\u0142y przerywane czasem zbyt niespodziewanie, co sprawia\u0142o, \u017ce chcia\u0142em przeskoczy\u0107 do innego miejsca ksi\u0105\u017cki. Bohaterowie momentami sprawiali wra\u017cenie, jakby ka\u017cdy z nich musia\u0142 na si\u0142\u0119 mie\u0107 powa\u017cne problemy, ale pewnie bez tego nie by\u0142o by ca\u0142ej dramaturgii. A jest ona mocno nakre\u015blona, przez co Ian McDonald uzyska\u0142 zreszt\u0105 odpowiedni\u0105 g\u0142\u0119bi\u0119. Mimo tych paru brak\u00f3w i czasami przyd\u0142ugich \"przerw\", pomys\u0142y fantastyczne, jakie mo\u017cna znale\u017a\u0107 w \"Rzece Bog\u00f3w\", s\u0105 wyj\u0105tkowe i wr\u0119cz genialnie opisane. Do tego mamy kilka scen seksu, kt\u00f3re po prostu trzeba przeczyta\u0107. Ostatnie sto stron ksi\u0105\u017cki jest du\u017co szybsze, o\u017cywcze i kontrastuj\u0105ce z powoli wci\u0105gaj\u0105cym pocz\u0105tkiem. Zako\u0144czenie te\u017c by\u0142o \u015bwietne i nie zgadzam si\u0119 z opiniami, \u017ce zbyt du\u017co powsta\u0142o niedopowiedze\u0144. Tak mia\u0142o by\u0107 ;) Ksi\u0105\u017cka na pewno nie jest dla wi\u0119kszo\u015bci fan\u00f3w sf czy hard sf, nie jest to \u0142atwa lektura. Ale tych, kt\u00f3rzy nie przestrasz\u0105 si\u0119 kilku pierwszych rozdzia\u0142\u00f3w, czeka p\u00f3\u017aniej nie lada uczta. Czo\u0142\u00f3wka najlepszej fantastyki. ...more India is a river, constantly moving, changing, bewildering, giver of life and taker of life. It is most likely that a westerner or non-Indian Asian, perhaps even Indians themselves, cannot truly comprehend the depths of India. In the West, we regard Mesopotamia as the cradle of civilization, but that is western civilization. In Mesopotamia, we learned how to stand still. We stopped roaming around gathering food and started planting and reaping. India contemplated the mind and spirit and grew the India is a river, constantly moving, changing, bewildering, giver of life and taker of life. It is most likely that a westerner or non-Indian Asian, perhaps even Indians themselves, cannot truly comprehend the depths of India. In the West, we regard Mesopotamia as the cradle of civilization, but that is western civilization. In Mesopotamia, we learned how to stand still. We stopped roaming around gathering food and started planting and reaping. India contemplated the mind and spirit and grew the religions which would eventually come to dominate. Ian MacDonald sets River of Gods in India, I think precisely because it is a cauldron of religions and a place where religious zealotry occasionally erupts in mob madness. He builds on the relationship between Hindu concepts of reality and illusion and the science of physics. Of course he is not the first person to draw these connections. The discoveries and theories of quantum physics have created a blurring of our understanding of reality and present to us world in which all that we perceive appears to be illusion. There is nothing more Hindu than the concept of illusion. River of Gods explores a point where physics, computer technology (artificial intelligence in particular), religion, and the politics of being human intersect. Out of this, nothing less than a new universe is born. MacDonald chooses to tell his story through several characters of diverse backgrounds and motivations. They are lives entering the great river of humanity that is India, moving always toward the great sea. What is the saying? that you cannot step into the same stream twice, for the waters are constantly moving and changing. You may be in the same river, but the water is not the same. A river is the containment of banks and general channel, but the waters are dynamic. River of Gods is a splendid novel. Have patience with the set up. You will be rewarded. ...more First, a warning: There is a goddamn glossary in the back of this book. I did not realize this until I was about 300 pages in. A lot of the Hindi words became clear through contextual clues, but some stuff I still am not sure about. I didn't bother to consult it (once I learned of its existence) because I was more than happy to just let the atmosphere wash over me and try to absorb meaning as I went. Anyway, this is a hell of a book. It's an absurdly rich portrait of India in the year 2050. The pr First, a warning: There is a goddamn glossary in the back of this book. I did not realize this until I was about 300 pages in. A lot of the Hindi words became clear through contextual clues, but some stuff I still am not sure about. I didn't bother to consult it (once I learned of its existence) because I was more than happy to just let the atmosphere wash over me and try to absorb meaning as I went. Anyway, this is a hell of a book. It's an absurdly rich portrait of India in the year 2050. The prose is lovely, but never excessive. The technology is imaginative, but extremely plausible. I have nothing particularly bad to say about this book. The plot is, perhaps, nothing groundbreaking. You might be tempted to think that the Indian setting is just a flashy gimmick, but the ending elucidates why this story could not have been set anywhere but India. I was surprised. I didn't think plot would connect to setting in such an organic way...but here we are. I loved this book. It was nominated for the Hugo award in 2005, but lost out to \"Johnathan Strange & Mr. Norrell.\" Another thing--I liked that the author included a \"Soundtrack\" page where he lists the artists he was listening to during the writing of the novel. Lots of good stuff on that list too Autechre, Future Sound of London, Boards of Canada, Sigur Ros.... So he has good taste in music as well. ...more It's one of these things that make you pause and think... is it right if a man writes from a woman's perspective? If a perfectly healthy man acts as a disabled man in a movie? If a farang writes intimately about a country in which he doesn't live? These questions are moot, because this book is so well done it doesn't matter if you've been to India or not. If it isn't authentic (if feels like it!) then it's an alternate world. As books always are. We view a slice of time in 2047 India through many It's one of these things that make you pause and think... is it right if a man writes from a woman's perspective? If a perfectly healthy man acts as a disabled man in a movie? If a farang writes intimately about a country in which he doesn't live? These questions are moot, because this book is so well done it doesn't matter if you've been to India or not. If it isn't authentic (if feels like it!) then it's an alternate world. As books always are. We view a slice of time in 2047 India through many different eyes, different roots, different cultures. It's a technique McDonald employs often enough through what little I've read of him, and this he also does well. There is a destiny for everyone whose role plays a piece, small or large, because they don't only move the plot, they serve as windows from an unique vantage of their particular social strata. There are so many ideas in play here. I especially loved the lighthoeks which are devices that superimpose images onto the retinas. You assign your own reality. There are many imaginable functions. You could even paste an image on the face of someone you didn't like. Music plays a huge role too, and becomes intrinsic to the user. And there are the slow missiles, a whole new approach to war. Don't forget the third gender, with its own pronouns. The ideas boil together, and seethe in the monsoon dawn. ...more Wizja niedalekiej przysz\u0142o\u015bci, wspaniale nakre\u015blona, oparta na kanwie dopracowanej, wci\u0105gaj\u0105cej i obfituj\u0105cej w niezwyk\u0142e zwroty akcji fabu\u0142y. Idealnym dope\u0142nieniem tej doskonale zaplanowanej opowie\u015bci o \u015bwiecie, w kt\u00f3rym sztuczne inteligencje stawiaj\u0105 swoje pierwsze i kolejne kroki ku autonomii, s\u0105 nietuzinkowe postaci, kt\u00f3re prze\u017cywaj\u0105 swe ma\u0142e prywatne dramaty, walcz\u0105 ze s\u0142abo\u015bciami, kochaj\u0105 i cierpi\u0105 - pierwiastek ludzki ma niebanalne znaczenie w \"Rzece bog\u00f3w\". Wszystko to, razem wzi\u0119te, spr Wizja niedalekiej przysz\u0142o\u015bci, wspaniale nakre\u015blona, oparta na kanwie dopracowanej, wci\u0105gaj\u0105cej i obfituj\u0105cej w niezwyk\u0142e zwroty akcji fabu\u0142y. Idealnym dope\u0142nieniem tej doskonale zaplanowanej opowie\u015bci o \u015bwiecie, w kt\u00f3rym sztuczne inteligencje stawiaj\u0105 swoje pierwsze i kolejne kroki ku autonomii, s\u0105 nietuzinkowe postaci, kt\u00f3re prze\u017cywaj\u0105 swe ma\u0142e prywatne dramaty, walcz\u0105 ze s\u0142abo\u015bciami, kochaj\u0105 i cierpi\u0105 - pierwiastek ludzki ma niebanalne znaczenie w \"Rzece bog\u00f3w\". Wszystko to, razem wzi\u0119te, sprawia, \u017ce po pocz\u0105tkowej, lekkiej dezorientacji, wynikaj\u0105cej z osadzenia akcji w egzotycznej kulturze Indii przysz\u0142o\u015bci, oraz mnogo\u015bci pozornie ze sob\u0105 niepowi\u0105zanych postaci, szybko zostaje si\u0119 dos\u0142ownie wch\u0142oni\u0119tym w ten \u015bwiat, t\u0105 rzeczywisto\u015b\u0107 i wydarzenia, kt\u00f3re si\u0119 po prostu prze\u017cywa. Na marginesie dodam, \u017ce ksi\u0105\u017cka powinna przypa\u015b\u0107 do gustu szczeg\u00f3lnie osobom, kt\u00f3re ceni\u0105 sobie cykl \"Inny \u015bwiat\" Tada Williamsa - tutaj znajd\u0105 one ciekawe nawi\u0105zania, zar\u00f3wno konceptualne, jak i fabularne. Ksi\u0105\u017cka, po prostu idealna! ...more Ambiguous. That's the best way to describe how I felt on finishing this book. Obviously, I enjoyed it for the most part, otherwise why would I give it four stars? That said, the last section was a letdown. Why? (1) It felt overly hasty, like the strands of plot were all drawn together too quickly given the pace and depth with which the book was building. (2) It felt overly hasty, part II. Was it just me, or did there seem to be an inordinate amount of \"draft relics\" in the later stages? The differen Ambiguous. That's the best way to describe how I felt on finishing this book. Obviously, I enjoyed it for the most part, otherwise why would I give it four stars? That said, the last section was a letdown. Why? (1) It felt overly hasty, like the strands of plot were all drawn together too quickly given the pace and depth with which the book was building. (2) It felt overly hasty, part II. Was it just me, or did there seem to be an inordinate amount of \"draft relics\" in the later stages? The different variants of (or even flat-out misidentified) character names and obvious editing errors were distracting to say the least. (3) Characters that played important parts in the story and received significant development throughout were treated to rather cursory conclusions. Even with those problems, the book is still a fun and intelligent read, with cultural and scientific touchstones aplenty. It's just sad that it feels somewhat unfinished to my mind. ...more Fantastic read, full of good ideas which are developed well. I liked it more than Dervish House, the plot was more challenging, the ideas bigger and more thought provoking. Stylistically it's very similar to Dervish House and you could see why Dervish House comes out of River of Gods but I think the looseness of the plot and style works well. Thematically it's similar too - that whole \"large things being made up of small \" and vice versa. Also interesting analogies and challenges about AI , inte Fantastic read, full of good ideas which are developed well. I liked it more than Dervish House, the plot was more challenging, the ideas bigger and more thought provoking. Stylistically it's very similar to Dervish House and you could see why Dervish House comes out of River of Gods but I think the looseness of the plot and style works well. Thematically it's similar too - that whole \"large things being made up of small \" and vice versa. Also interesting analogies and challenges about AI , intellect and humanity. ...more The first five hundred pages, give or take, read like they were written by China Mi\u00e9ville and William Gibson's lovechild. This is a wonderful thing. Unfortunately, the last hundred pages feel like Simon R. Green was brought in to write the ending. For those of you who aren't familiar, that means the ending just kind of craps out. Sad under any circumstances - tragic in this case. In 2047 India, while internal tensions and possible civil war looms, a cop hunts down illegal artificial intelligence while his marriage is in danger, a stand-up comic is called home to take over his father's business, a reporter gets the scoop of a lifetime, a high level politician pursues a taboo relationship that could ruin his career, and an American scholar seeks another regarding an impossible artifact in space. These stories, and others, all contribute to a change that will ring out throu In 2047 India, while internal tensions and possible civil war looms, a cop hunts down illegal artificial intelligence while his marriage is in danger, a stand-up comic is called home to take over his father's business, a reporter gets the scoop of a lifetime, a high level politician pursues a taboo relationship that could ruin his career, and an American scholar seeks another regarding an impossible artifact in space. These stories, and others, all contribute to a change that will ring out throughout history. I really enjoyed this book, although it had a bit of a slow start. There are many different story lines, and at first the book visits all of them in turn, and so none of them advance much (most aren't connected at all at first, and even at the end, some are connected in ways that only the reader is aware of, not the characters). So it takes a while to really get invested, but once you do, things carry on and the plots start intertwining and a big mystery is set up and I liked the characters, and it all carried me through waiting to see what would happen next. Although there are a few Americans, and some who come from other countries, most of the characters in this book are Indian, and the book does not shy away from that fact. To someone like me, someone who doesn't have too much in-depth knowledge of Indian culture, beyond what I've gotten from the media and a life growing up in a fairly multicultural Canadian city, it presents a little bit of a challenge to get in to. It doesn't hold back or explain very much, it throws in terms from that culture and the Hindi language (and possibly other regional languages) as though it's part of the background, because, for most of the characters, it is. Although I was interested in the characters and the story from the outset, this made it a bit difficult to get into at first, at least until I picked up enough from context that I could get what was going on in some of the plotlines. At it turns out, I was reading this at the same time as The Three-Body Problem (set in China, and original written there), and I could not help thinking that it is THIS book that really needs footnotes, not TBP. There is a glossary for River of Gods at the back, which would certainly help, but I only became aware of it after I read the novel in full. Still, even with full immersion, it's not THAT difficult, it's just a bit of a challenge, and one worth taking on if you like good SF with strong characters. And I feel it's a good idea to stretch your horizons now and then and read books focusing on characters who aren't a part of your culture, or are written by those of differing perspectives. This book seems to be more the former than the latter, of course, as the author is British. As an outsider, I can't accurately judge how well the author captured the culture, but he at least seemed to give it a serious effort and without any obvious (to me) problems... and, at the very least, the Indian characters are mostly the protagonists in their own stories rather than just being background color for somebody else. Capturing the world of another culture is one challenge, building a future world is a whole different matter, and here, too, he mostly succeeds. Although only a few ideas are really focused on, there are more going on in the background that add up to a rich and convincing future world. He's apparently set a book of short stories in that world, Cyberabad Days , and I am going to be keeping an eye out for it. I do admit to one small, personal issue with the book. I would barely even call it a gripe, it was more just a stumbling block that affected me and might impact others. One of the plotlines is told from the perspective of a \"neut\", a member of a new subculture of people who have undergone a procedure that removes their gender. I have no problem with this idea, but neuts use the pronoun \"yt\" to replace \"he\", \"she\", \"him\", and \"her\" (and \"yt's\" for \"his\" and \"her\" possessively). And sometimes, this just made those sections difficult for me to read smoothly, particularly when you got sentences like \"Yt told yt yt had to go.\" My brain just often stopped and said \"what?\" and I had to take time parsing it, which threw me out of the narrative. I might have preferred they use, if not \"they\", some other pronoun that felt more natural. In the end, though, it's a fairly minor gripe, if it is one at all. Highly recommended... my first experience with McDonald, but I don't think it'll be my last. ...more In August in 2047, in the city of Varanasi in the country of Bharat in central India, nine people converge on one singular event that changes everything for mankind. For some, it's an asteroid containing the alien relic the Tabernacle. For others it is chasing down AIs. And for others, it is about finding themselves in the midst of a water war when the monsoon rains no longer come and the Ganga runs dry. The good: River of Gods does very interesting things with the arc of the growth of computers In August in 2047, in the city of Varanasi in the country of Bharat in central India, nine people converge on one singular event that changes everything for mankind. For some, it's an asteroid containing the alien relic the Tabernacle. For others it is chasing down AIs. And for others, it is about finding themselves in the midst of a water war when the monsoon rains no longer come and the Ganga runs dry. The good: River of Gods does very interesting things with the arc of the growth of computers and computing into every corner of life. Even the very popular soap, \"Town and Country,\" is completely computer rendered with fake AI actors having fake AI-based weddings and entire \"People Magazine\"-like publications fawn over the imaginary private lives of the AIs inhabiting the rendered soap opera. Everyone has a cellphone-like device, even the most poor. Everything is wired together. And AIs (called aeais in the book) fill every corner of existence -- driving cars (but apparently not the taxis), running heating and cooling systems, injecting themselves into medical devices, everywhere. One of the main themes of the book is hunting down rogue AIs, those who have somehow \"evolved\" through illicit programming or through happenstance to become \"Generation Three\" AIs, those AIs that have developed full native intelligence. The question the book grapples with is not only how these beings come about and flow through the interconnectedness of all computers, but how they see existence and how their consciousness is represented by copying millions of copies of themselves. The other is how humans react to the super intelligent AIs, hunting them down, and \"excommunicating\" them with huge EMP pulses and destroying all the copies hiding in the machines. Another bit of good comes from grappling with how humans are forcing their own evolution through selective breeding, gene therapy, and remaking themselves with extensive surgery. From this comes a shortage of women, strange children who age at 1/2 the rate of regular human beings called Brahmins who have no empathy for the human race, and nutes -- a group of people who have surgically removed all gender. The reaction from normal humans is revulsion but the book implies this is the forward trajectory of humanity and the normal people will soon be an out-bred relic of the past. The bad: I generally like books with multiple viewpoints but River of Gods has nine and it felt overdone. The themes of the book were focused over the actual characterization of the characters. Only the nute Tal really stood out as a distinct personality. The rest of the characters tended to flow together into one amorphous mass. All the characters _do_ get a different view of the actions during August 2047 to give a perspective on how the whole plot comes together in the end -- with a little bit of Science Fiction Plot Device thrown in. The science fiction is a little too precious at times. Sometimes it wants to be Arthur C. Clarke and sometimes it wants to be Blade Runner with just a dash of the original Philip K Dick and it doesn't seem to know which is which. The Hindi sprinkled through is not much of a challenge. However, the kindle version of the book lacks bookmarks so looking up terms in the back of the book is a major challenge. Also, the kindle version is sprinkled throughout the text with enough typos for it to be called out. The ending is about middling for a science fiction book. It's not awful. It's no Sphere. It's not a total collapse like Snow Crash. The book ends very definitively. River of Gods by Ian McDonald is an awful lot of book. It's big. In parts it goes on and on and on and on. Some of it drags in places when it goes BEHOLD MY INDIA OF THE FUTURE! For an easy comparison on pure word count, it's about 1 Red Mars. Figure out how long it took to read Red Mars, add a tax for having to look up all the words in Hindi in the appendix in the back, and that's about how long it takes to get through River of Gods. So, not bad. I made it all the way through. It definitely does have some good ideas and it is one of the better science fiction novels floating around. It's in the \"pretty good\" category but it's not Childhood's End or anything. It's a decent read but it's not one of those science fiction novels that lays hooks in your brain that lie there and fester until they get disgorged in some argument one day. I give it about a 3.75 stars but the rating system isn't that fine grained so I round it up to a four. It's not quite a four star book. It's very much a 3.75 star book. ...more<---C>Ian McDonald</---C>", "Title": "River of Gods"},
