{"Comments": "It is hard to believe that this is Michael Durkota's first novel, as it was such a beautifully written and accompished book, that stirred up many emotions. The compelling plot follows two Navy soldiers as they are dismissed from their submarine mission at the time of the Gulf War. Both frustrated at being left ashore and with the internal struggle left by conflict brewing very near the surface, the men are both at a bit of a loss.They struggle with relationships,<---M> and anger</---M>, and unless they revis It is hard to believe that this is Michael Durkota's first novel, as it was such a beautifully written and accompished book, that stirred up many emotions. The compelling plot follows two Navy soldiers as they are dismissed from their submarine mission at the time of the Gulf War. Both frustrated at being left ashore and with the internal struggle left by conflict brewing very near the surface, the men are both at a bit of a loss.They struggle with relationships, and anger, and unless they revisit an incidet that occured at sea, they wll never be able to move forward. I found this psychological drama really engrossing and moving, with really believable and troubled characters that I developed real empathy for. <+++>Once in a Blue Year</+++> really i a triumph of a debut novel, that I highly recommend to everyone. ...more Four friends fight for their country and combat their own hidden specters in this novel about underwater battles on a nuclear submarine and the struggle to live life on land. Dan is disaffected with the Navy and his life aboard a submarine carrying nuclear weapons where \u201cthere is nowhere to hide\u201d \u2013 even from his friend, Trevor, who thrives on bullying him. When a freak accident releases him from duty, he becomes trapped in a different, more emotionally perilous way. Trevor, who often flies into in Four friends fight for their country and combat their own hidden specters in this novel about underwater battles on a nuclear submarine and the struggle to live life on land. Dan is disaffected with the Navy and his life aboard a submarine carrying nuclear weapons where \u201cthere is nowhere to hide\u201d \u2013 even from his friend, Trevor, who thrives on bullying him. When a freak accident releases him from duty, he becomes trapped in a different, more emotionally perilous way. Trevor, who often flies into inexplicable rages, wants to stay on board the sub when the Gulf War suddenly heats up as a way avoid facing Tara, a beautiful woman who loves him unreservedly. But Trevor doesn\u2019t get his way when Nathan bumps him from the crew heading for the Persian Gulf. Nathan missed the birth of his first child. He has just begun to get to know him and renew his relationship with his wife Heather when he goes back to war, leaving everyone in a state of shock and surprise. And there\u2019s Jags, the clown/philosopher of the quartet, who accidentally (<---B>or not</---B>) shoots himself in the foot to avoid going to the Gulf. Heather welcomes Dan, who had planned to live with Nathan. Dan becomes an awkward but kindly baby-sitter who watches as the abandoned wife of his good friend falls apart emotionally and needs more comfort than he is prepared to give. Trevor, forced to spend time with Tara, can no longer escape his childhood demons. Meanwhile, Jags has decided to marry a stripper. The three buddies on land are drawn even closer together as the subtleties of this multi-layered plot weave together. Nathan\u2019s sudden return provides an unexpected opportunity for each to show his true mettle, not as warriors but as rehabilitated, redeemable people. The author, <---A>Michael D. Durkota</---A>, is a former submariner. In this hard-to-put-down debut novel he has crafted vivid descriptions of life inside a tin box carrying extremely dangerous cargo under the sea\u2013from the bland meals, the surprisingly good coffee, and the sense of claustrophobia that for some is neatly balanced by a comforting sense of undeviating routine. Durkota has made each of his characters believable, each one coming to his private accommodation to the rigidly scheduled life in the Navy and the spontaneity and unpredictability of life on dry land. Too, Durkota depicts Heather and Tara as real, robust women with nearly broken hearts, trying to salvage the loves they thought were lost forever. <+++>Once in a Blue Year</+++> is a mesmerizing story of four friends who sometimes act like enemies and sometimes beat seemingly impossible odds to rescue their pals in a crunch. ...more Currently, it is often said that not enough is done for veterans and service men and women, who struggle with the after effects of conflict and war. There is a certain detachment between society and this problem is not an easy one to discuss or define. I am so glad that Michael Durkota didn't shy away from it at all, instead taking a well-informed and unbiased look at the different effects that being a member of the armed forces. It seems really poignant that he sets his plot in the Gulf War, a Currently, it is often said that not enough is done for veterans and service men and women, who struggle with the after effects of conflict and war. There is a certain detachment between society and this problem is not an easy one to discuss or define. I am so glad that Michael Durkota didn't shy away from it at all, instead taking a well-informed and unbiased look at the different effects that being a member of the armed forces. It seems really poignant that he sets his plot in the Gulf War, a conflict that had an awful effect on so many. His four main characters, Dan, Trevor, Nathan and Jags are four US Navy Men, all handling their time in the Navy \u2013 past and present \u2013 in different ways. One resorts to anger, one to desperation, another to run away, and one to ignore them completely. But, they all have to face up to their demons, if they are ever to come to terms with what they have been through, and move forward.<---F> An honest, thoughtful and emotional read</---F>. I hope Durkota releases another novel soon. ...more Contemporary fiction doesn't get much better than 'Once in a Blue Year' by Michael Durkota. It combines several different genres of fiction including military, drama and psychological thriller, coming together in a stunning debut novel. We follow two Navy men who are left behind when their submarine is deployed in the early stages of the Gulf War. Dan -to his relief \u2013 is medically discharged, whilst Trevor \u2013 who feels he thrives at sea - is furious at missing the boat, so to speak. The we have N Contemporary fiction doesn't get much better than 'Once in a Blue Year' by Michael Durkota. It combines several different genres of fiction including military, drama and psychological thriller, coming together in a stunning debut novel. We follow two Navy men who are left behind when their submarine is deployed in the early stages of the Gulf War. Dan -to his relief \u2013 is medically discharged, whilst Trevor \u2013 who feels he thrives at sea - is furious at missing the boat, so to speak. The we have Nathan, a friend of the two servicemen who goes in Trevor's place. I certainly isn't easy for any of the three men a they adjust to their new circumstances, whilst trying to also cope with the traumas of the past. But there is some light relief in the comedic attempts of character Jags, who wants nothing more than to get discharged. It also really makes you think about the effect active service can have on those in the armed forces. Wonderful effortless prose, exquisite scene setting, compelling plot and sympathetic characters made for a novel that really affected me. 10 out of 10. ...more Like complex, dynamic characters? How about dramatic tension? A little mystery in the workings of love? Me, too! Hence the need to review and the need to praise. Once in a Blue Year sticks close to three submariners who are friends but often times unfriendly toward one another. Nathan, checked out from his wife and infant son, loves going under that big drink where he can find solace in his own little world. Dan is tormented by a desire to love someone off limits, but tormented more by his inabil Like complex, dynamic characters? How about dramatic tension? A little mystery in the workings of love? Me, too! Hence the need to review and the need to praise. Once in a Blue Year sticks close to three submariners who are friends but often times unfriendly toward one another. Nathan, checked out from his wife and infant son, loves going under that big drink where he can find solace in his own little world. Dan is tormented by a desire to love someone off limits, but tormented more by his inability to move away from a life that no longer suits him. Trevor, all muscle and stunted emotion, balances his morals against the outside world's insistent battering at his limitations. These guys dance around one another, on submarine and on dry land, influencing life paths, choices in love and choices in violence. Durkota takes these men through a literary swell of befuddled relationships, sprinkling in a moody, mysterious ambiance throughout the pages. The sentences making up Once in a Blue Year are crisp and tight, punctuated by evocative metaphors and punchy dialogue. One of my favorite images in the book was this one, where Dan reminisces about his time in his father's basement: \"Sawdust would stick to his arms and legs, and he would wipe it away with a swipe of his hand, as if he were wiping away the stars in the sky.\" In a lovemaking scene in the book, a moment of guilt-laced passion, he writes, \"In mathematics, the product of two negatives is positive. He wasn't sure if that applied.\" I've never read a more apt description of an adulterous act than this one. One of my favorite characters is Jags, a off-kilter submariner looking for ways to get discharged from the Navy. He provides comic relief, Durkota using his nutty voice to break up the seriousness of the story and call into question the reality taking center stage in the narration. Jags has loads of great lines, often playing off the other men. This exchange, between Jags and Trevor, made me laugh out loud: \"When did they let you out?\" \"Last night. They said I'm perfectly sane.\" \"Did you ask for a second opinion?\" \"The thought hadn't occurred to me.\" Jags limped along with the use of one crutch. \"What happened to your eye?\" \"I must have popped a blood vessel.\" \"You look like Satan.\" \"F--- you.\" \"Not now. We'll be late for work.\" I'm a stickler for a strong plot. That doesn't mean the stories I read need to be formulaic, but they do have to put characters in positions where they are forced to weigh their options and make choices. They must move in a direction, instead of being put upon by outside forces. I like when characters are in the flow of cause and effect and do their best to affect the current. Once in a Blue Year is quiet in ways, a focused vignette on choices made in life and in relationships. Though the scope of the plot is on events we all face in life, it doesn't mean Durkota's plot is small. Not at all. It's rich and complex, detailing a story of love and loss from the perspective of some very real characters. Durkota writes about Dan's preferences when reading a book, saying, \"He felt safe in the distance. Detached. A voyeur. He spied on the lives of people he didn't know. He envied the invisible narrator that has no blame, feels no pain. He thought he would choose his own ending.\" To me, Dan and Durkota are one in the same here, and the words parallel the psychological suspense of the novel. Except Michael D. Durkota didn't detach himself from this tale; it's all in for this author and the reader feels it in spades. The author is present in this tale in a good way. There is no heavy-handed moralistic or personal veneer to wade through. Durkota serves his story and his characters as they wish him to, and that's no small feat for a writer. Once in a Blue Year is a nuanced tale of men haunted by life and by their weaknesses and loves. Highly recommended. Can't wait for Durkota's next work. Hopefully it won't be another fifteen years in the making. I don't want to wait that long! ...more As someone who has no personal experience of the military, all I really know is what I see on the television or in movies. So I probably never really get the full picture, just a one-dimensional view that doesn't show all the shades of grey. I really feel that Durkota is providing the reader with a comprehensive view of the military mindset in all of it's forms, with his thrilling novel 'Once in a Blue Year'. In his fully developed characters, Navy personnel Trevor, Dan, Jags and Nathan, he reve As someone who has no personal experience of the military, all I really know is what I see on the television or in movies. So I probably never really get the full picture, just a one-dimensional view that doesn't show all the shades of grey. I really feel that Durkota is providing the reader with a comprehensive view of the military mindset in all of it's forms, with his thrilling novel 'Once in a Blue Year'. In his fully developed characters, Navy personnel Trevor, Dan, Jags and Nathan, he reveals the effect of service on the psyche, but also the difficulty these men have, in reintegrating back into the 'real' world. Relationships are difficult to maintain and it seems easier to lash out or withdraw, than to deal with past and present problems. Will these men ever find their way to a normal life? Or will they forever be tormented by something that happened at sea? ...more Michael Durkota\u2019s \u201cOnce in a Blue Year\u201d is one to be remembered, but not for anything less than poignant and heartening. Never has there been a story flush with emotions, mystery, and adventure, all while showing a genuine meaning of comradery. Two friends, Dan and Nathan, discover their lives are separated yet intertwined through submarine duty when Nathan must regrettably leave his child and wife behind and were Dan must piece together the remains of his shattered life all for active duty. Fri Michael Durkota\u2019s \u201cOnce in a Blue Year\u201d is one to be remembered, but not for anything less than poignant and heartening. Never has there been a story flush with emotions, mystery, and adventure, all while showing a genuine meaning of comradery. Two friends, Dan and Nathan, discover their lives are separated yet intertwined through submarine duty when Nathan must regrettably leave his child and wife behind and were Dan must piece together the remains of his shattered life all for active duty. Friends become united, through the detail descriptions of submarine life proudly a part of the USA Navy. ...more Very enjoyable. I love it when the New York City Police outsmarts and outthinks the bad guys. Two problems with the book: too many coincidences leading to perfect opportunities and readers were left hanging by having to read the next book in the sequel to find out what happened next! I thoroughly enjoyed this story. Excellent writing. The characters were all very real to me. It provides a unique look at war in general and the submarine service in particular; the focus on the families left behind was intriguing. Highly recommended. Four young men avoid responsibility for their personal lives by joining the Navy and diving under the seas. ... http://www.theusreview.com/reviews/On... Couldn't put the book down. Loved it!<---C>Michael D. Durkota</---C>", "Title": "Once in a Blue Year"},
