{"Comments": "<+++>Kazungul: Blood Ties - Awakening of the Ancestral Curse</+++>It was a very interesting book to read. This is one of the normal genres of books that I read, but I must admit that I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed reading this book. I would recommend it to others to read as it is really something different from the normal books. I cannot wait to start the second book tonight and I am sure that this one will be just as amazing as the first one. Marcus did an excellent job and I sincerely hope that there would be more books to follow. If he eve It was a very interesting book to read. This is one of the normal genres of books that I read, but I must admit that I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed reading this book. I would recommend it to others to read as it is really something different from the normal books. I cannot wait to start the second book tonight and I am sure that this one will be just as amazing as the first one. Marcus did an excellent job and I sincerely hope that there would be more books to follow. If he ever needs someone to read his books, I am definitely in the front of the cue. ...more Book Review Title:Kazungul: Blood Ties \u2013 Awakening of the Ancestral Curse Author: <---A>Marcus L. Lukusa</---A>by Genre: Fantasy/Sci-Fi/Coming of Age Rating: **** Review: So the first thing that drew me into Kazungul Book 1 was the absolutely stunning cover. It creepy with the demon wolf thing with wings and the E.T. Looking guy but for some reason to me it feels quite biblical in a sense. If I saw this in a book store I would be drawn to it and would probably buy it for the cover alone. The opening chapter of th Book Review Title:Kazungul: Blood Ties \u2013 Awakening of the Ancestral Curse Author: Marcus L. Lukusaby Genre: Fantasy/Sci-Fi/Coming of Age Rating: **** Review: So the first thing that drew me into Kazungul Book 1 was the absolutely stunning cover. It creepy with the demon wolf thing with wings and the E.T. Looking guy but for some reason to me it feels quite biblical in a sense. If I saw this in a book store I would be drawn to it and would probably buy it for the cover alone. The opening chapter of this book reminded me more of a play than a novel with a narrator setting the scene for the story to come and also provided a little bit of backstory to the forthcoming story. I was intrigued the idea of an angelic war and a half angel, half demon (<---B>if that what you can call it</---B>) child coming to earth to find peace but instead breeding a race of beings that feed on blood quite similar to vampire but not vampires. This chapter really succeeded in drawing me in as a reader, and the writing style and prose really provoked the analytical side of my mind. When we meet our protagonist Raymond in chapter 3, his story is told in a first person narrative which is something I personally really like as it allows you to connect more with the characters and become more engaged in the story. I loved the vivid description of the mythical and mysterious creatures, and the strange ritual in which Raymond finds himself a part of. I really enjoyed the fact that I am only 20% in the novel and Raymond life has be thrown into turmoil and he is now on a quest of discovery. I found the constantly changing points of view provided a detailed yet not quite clear picture of the story. This provides a very gripping story for the reader as we aren\u2019t quite sure what role the current narrator is playing or where the story is going making for a fast-paced yet unpredictable read. After returning home Raymond and his father travel to the legendary city of Zimba Za Mabwe. It is here that Raymond meets his forefather Enoch Bahati, one of the last surviving sons of Hadimas, who bestows gifts upon him including the gift of the third eye. After this brief but extremely significant encounter they return home and thus concludes the first part of the novel. I have to say by this point I am completely invested in the novel and I feel more eager than Raymond himself to discover his heritage and the extent of his powers. Another one of the gifts Enoch gave to Raymond was a book he had written about himself and his journey of discovery which Raymond reads but the way it is written isn\u2019t from Raymond\u2019s point of view but Enochs\u2019 P.O.V so it is like we are in that moment thousands of years in the past. From this book Raymond learns about his heritage, his powers and most important the curse on his ancestors and his descendants. As Raymond takes the first steps in completely the quest Enoch couldn\u2019t his spirit matures enough to witness and feel the past and be brought be the elders. With Enoch and Zachary as guides I hold a lot of hope that Raymond will succeed but we cannot ignore the sense of foreboding, telling us that darker more evil forces are working against Raymond. I loved learning about the different cultures and customs of all the mystical creatures. I also enjoyed learning about the different spiritual realms and how the beings within them interconnect. I also enjoyed being in Raymond\u2019s shoes every step of the way, feeling what he feels and learning along with him. As Raymond learns to control and manipulate his powers he moves forward becoming a great boxer and making some great friends, I also spy a hint of a romance there. But I am worried that there is something dangerous coming his way. As Raymond\u2019s quest continues with Enoch, he is granted to receive the gifts only his bloodline descendants can claim. He also been drawn into a love triangle between Nitia and Khepri which is something you wouldn\u2019t normally see in a sci-fi/fantasy novel. At this point in the novel we begin to see the Jimini Society preparing to hunt down Raymond despite the fact he hasn\u2019t hurt anyone with his power. Up until this point things have gone fairly easy for Raymond and I have the feeling he is going to face some major trails in this half of the novel. One of these trails is for Raymond\u2019s protectors, as he is drawn into a spiritual vision from which he can\u2019t release himself and is slowly becoming one with Ra himself. They take Raymond to the Red Falcon, with Nitia suffering the worse on the trek through the desert as she is a water dwelling being. She endures because of her love for Raymond although this romantic element takes an extreme back seat in the novel, so if you want a fantasy romance this isn\u2019t the greatest pick for you. When the group finally awaken Raymond he is his most enlightened self and is ready to complete his task, a task many before him like Enoch has failed to achieve. There are various religious elements scattered throughout the novel but the most relatable one for me is when Raymond is visited by Michael one of the seven Archangels of the Lord \u2013 whether this refers to God or another mythical or religious Lord is not clarified \u2013 but I personally related it to God as in his enlightened form Raymond\u2019s essence or soul would be extremely visible to these higher beings. There was an unexpected twist when Nitia turns on Raymond forcing him to release Hadimas who would unleash chaos on the world because she is blinded by her love for him and feels he is betraying her by having feeling for Khepri. They leave Raymond chained in the Hall of Destiny bound in chains he couldn\u2019t hope to escape from. Raymond\u2019s capture is his finally test as the time of Ra has come and he will possibly have to fight Hadimas. Meanwhile in the human realm Khepri is being befriended by someone who \u201cshares her pain\u201d and the Jimini society are prepared for war. So as we come into the final 60 pages everything is coming to its head. Raymond finally realises the magnitude of his power and the soul of Ra is reborn within him. Michael and another angel find him and return him to Earth to complete his journey. While this final battle is going to be difficult I feel the battle of Raymond\u2019s\u2019 heart between Khepri and Nitia is will even harder for him. By part 4 Hadimas is moving forward with his plan and he has gathered almost of the Kazungul to his side. After his escape Raymond/Ra go to Astataurus where he reclaims himself and is going to go after is son Hadimas. Also Nitia and Khepri are fused into one being Phoenitia; Ra\u2019s queen. After returning Hamel to his rightful throne by overturning an evil tyrant, Ra is content but he can\u2019t forget the fact everything that has happened has be a prelude to the war of Gog and Magog. As I reader I felt the characters had already been through a spiritual, mental and physical war. Shatan plans to take over Earth and use it as a base of operation for his dark plans. I love to biblical references to the serpent that corrupts all. War and destruction are raging on Earth and Raymond on Astataurus is completely unaware. The Most High issues ordered for Raymond/Ra to be informed of the destruction and for the force of light to return Earth to its balanced state. The Most High remains nameless I see as God because of the references to Christianity and the numerous biblical references. Shatan will face the wrath of Heaven for bringing about the War of Gog and Magog. Once of the key things that the most enlightened beings to do is to unite man and make them true to their cause, which of course they achieve. In the final part of this novel, Shatan and all the beings that dwell in the darkness are winning the war, the beings of light are faltering as the Sun is blocked out and it is the most unlikely of beings that will have the final decision in who will win and that\u2019s the humans. The key to turn the tide of war was the first words of creation; let there be light and the human unafraid even though the faced death banish the beings of darkness as through their own power save themselves. After the battle the balance of the Universe is restored and the higher beings are granted new roles to ensure the safety of all worlds. The ending was good as its leave and opening for a new adventure; Bolt\u2019s adventure. I really enjoyed the novel although I did feel at times the story was out of balance with itself. At time it was really heavy of the spiritual and religious aspects and the fantasy and action sides of the novel are drowned out. The biggest issue for me was the War of Gog and Magog \u2013 this is depicted in only a few pages, in novel of a similar style these scenes have at least 4 \u2013 5 chapters dedicated to the build-up, the battle and the aftermath and I just felt this key point in the novel was not done justice. I also felt the author could have working a little between the romance element of the novel. In conclusion, I would highly recommend this novel to people who are a fan of sci-fi novels with a strong spiritual/religious element but I felt personally this book could have done some amazing things with aspects of the novel that were slightly pushed into the background. ...more Lukusa puts an original spin on the classic coming-of-age story in a way that I don\u2019t think has ever been done before. In this story, the protagonist\u2019s journey of self-discovery involves far more than simply trying to determine what he wants to make of his life. His journey involves learning how to handle the truth of what he is\u2014a magical and mythical creature known as a kazungal. The story itself is full of imagination, weaved in with fascinating mythology. Although Lukusa\u2019s creativity is abund Lukusa puts an original spin on the classic coming-of-age story in a way that I don\u2019t think has ever been done before. In this story, the protagonist\u2019s journey of self-discovery involves far more than simply trying to determine what he wants to make of his life. His journey involves learning how to handle the truth of what he is\u2014a magical and mythical creature known as a kazungal. The story itself is full of imagination, weaved in with fascinating mythology. Although Lukusa\u2019s creativity is abundantly clear, the execution of this book did not capture me the way I hoped it would. I think this is because there was sometimes more \u201cshowing\u201d rather than \u201ctelling\u201d, in addition to repetitive writing that slowed down the momentum at moments. That being said, I frequently found myself wondering if some of the things I viewed as flaws were actually intentional stylistic choices of the author\u2019s. To me, the telling rather than showing caused \u201cKazungal\u201d to feel like something heard through oral storytelling tradition rather than read in written format. Hence, this is potentially why personally I felt disconnected, although this style may greatly appeal to other readers. So while this particular book wasn\u2019t for me, I do feel that Lukusa has created a unique voice and style with his writing, which is certain to win him a loyal following. ...more I was lucky enough to win this book so I got a signed copy. I didn't get to read it as often as I liked but I did quite enjoy the story. It was quite nicely paced and not drawn out. I didn't have a hard time picturing the imagery and I fell in love with the characters... even the jealous Mermaid princess! I truly enjoyed the action but I really enjoyed the African theme in this book. All too often you read what you know and this book had fresh perspective which I loved. The only thing I struggled wit I was lucky enough to win this book so I got a signed copy. I didn't get to read it as often as I liked but I did quite enjoy the story. It was quite nicely paced and not drawn out. I didn't have a hard time picturing the imagery and I fell in love with the characters... even the jealous Mermaid princess! I truly enjoyed the action but I really enjoyed the African theme in this book. All too often you read what you know and this book had fresh perspective which I loved. The only thing I struggled with was timing in the book. One point the main character starts boxing and the next page, he's a champion. The time lapses sometimes threw me off course. ...more Wow, this book has a lot going on. Different worlds, timelines, flashbacks, Creatures & humans. I have really enjoyed the story, although at times I found it hard to follow with so much going on. Kazungal is a great read and I shall definatly recommended it to those who want an adventure away from the main stream. With thanks to Lukusa & goodreads first reads for the giveaway. Human race? A question that sounds in the mind of most of us every morning, and one of the mysteries that remains unsolved to our understanding; is our very nature,<---M> what if it were true</---M>, that all that you know and all that you think you are is a lie, well that was the case for our Hero Raymond Bakara\u00ef in Kazungul Book one; Blood ties \u2013 Awakening of the ancestral curse. Raymond a young bright, smart, and soft boy\u2019s life is transformed to the unbelievable realities of his cursed blood, when he dec Human race? A question that sounds in the mind of most of us every morning, and one of the mysteries that remains unsolved to our understanding; is our very nature, what if it were true, that all that you know and all that you think you are is a lie, well that was the case for our Hero Raymond Bakara\u00ef in Kazungul Book one; Blood ties \u2013 Awakening of the ancestral curse. Raymond a young bright, smart, and soft boy\u2019s life is transformed to the unbelievable realities of his cursed blood, when he decided to try live his life as he saw fit, by breaking a taboo from his parents and ancestors, Raymond awakes a winged beast in him that has been haunting their family since the longest time, quickly he is plunged in a mystical world of secrets, powers, magic and supernatural realities, unable to resist to this calling as this was a destiny upon him since the ancient time of Ra\u2019s glory on Astataurus, one of the six colony of planets around Sirius, he was subjected to go through this trial. Even though life is now difficult for Raymond, fate preserves some good fortune for him, he finds his ancestor and mentor who is over some thousand years old, falls in love with the queen of an underwater city called Aquadropolis, and discovers that they are more above Sirius as well, as the hand of love is shown to him by one of the elite warrior angels, Raymond stands to defend not only his loved ones but Earth entirely and struggles to see how to save his kind from the curse. Part one: Awareness, Part two: Knowledge, Part Three: Power, Part Four: Redemption, Part Five: Ascension. Follow Raymond Bakara\u00ef in this new universe and discover the Truth about the Kazungul creatures that haunt, both days and nights ...more Kazungul; this is an amazing and unique book telling a story about a supernatural type of beings from far away planets and civilisations, who came to earth at peace for a start and turn around to take over humankind, these beings as they arrived got in contact with humans and had descendants with them, descendants who had abilities above the average humans. In the modern days, the book talks about a young man named Raymond Bakaira who finds out only as a teen that he is one of these beings. Divi Kazungul; this is an amazing and unique book telling a story about a supernatural type of beings from far away planets and civilisations, who came to earth at peace for a start and turn around to take over humankind, these beings as they arrived got in contact with humans and had descendants with them, descendants who had abilities above the average humans. In the modern days, the book talks about a young man named Raymond Bakaira who finds out only as a teen that he is one of these beings. Diving us deep into the sci-fi world where he will come to meet different individuals who will help him find his path, which reveals to be more than just a Kazungul but an ancient incarnated soul, as Raymond awake to his calling as the incarnated soul by fighting evil and challenged also by love as he battles to connect back to his soul mate in his jumbled up love affairs, he is chosen to lead one of the greatest battle earth has ever seen; the war of Gog and Maggog. This story is a beginning of a great sci-fi, a background of scenes never seen before, a mix of fiction, mythology, fantasy, action, drama, love and many more, as you go along, looking at the mysteries around us, human race challenges, love connections, and discovery of the things yet know to us, Kazungul opens up a world of fiction where all of the above are find with an happy ending awaiting the next volume of this story. It is a book worth reading in a life time. ...more<---C>Marcus L. Lukusa</---C><+++>Kazungul: Blood Ties - Awakening of the Ancestral Curse</+++>", "Title": "Kazungul: Blood Ties - Awakening of the Ancestral Curse"},
