{"Comments": "You know, most days I sit around being angry. I\u2019m in the car,<---M> I\u2019m doing dishes</---M>, I\u2019m waiting at the dentist (<---B> 25 minutes after my scheduled appointment time .</---B>) and the thing is I\u2019m not really conscious of it.<---F> It\u2019s just there </---F>. It might present itself in my clenched jaw or that weird stabbing that runs right through my chest and out my back (I\u2019ve been meaning to get that checked out, btw.) So, I\u2019ve been trying to analyze this. It\u2019s like I\u2019m mad about the \u2018what might have beens\u2019, or I\u2019m mad that I\u2019m su You know, most days I sit around being angry. I\u2019m in the car, I\u2019m doing dishes, I\u2019m waiting at the dentist ( 25 minutes after my scheduled appointment time .) and the thing is I\u2019m not really conscious of it. It\u2019s just there . It might present itself in my clenched jaw or that weird stabbing that runs right through my chest and out my back (I\u2019ve been meaning to get that checked out, btw.) So, I\u2019ve been trying to analyze this. It\u2019s like I\u2019m mad about the \u2018what might have beens\u2019, or I\u2019m mad that I\u2019m such a wuss about taking chances. Mostly I\u2019m just mad . Where\u2019s that whole quality of life thing fit in, anyway? So, when I picked up this book I wasn\u2019t really sure what I was going to get. I honestly thought it might be one of those self help books, sort of in the vein of Fast Food Nation --something that would try to get me to change my wicked, wicked ways. That\u2019s a pretty cynical outlook---I think I need more help than I originally thought. Anyway. I loved this book. I loved every single character in this book. From Anhil, the existentialist donut man, to the overworked ex-wife (she who shall not be named, I guess), to misguided, sweet Ben, to the misunderstood, sweet Nic, to Cynthia---who I can so relate to---but most of all, I love Richard. Richard is that guy. That person that you sort of hope to be. He\u2019s far, far from perfect, basically a fuckup. After a somewhat traumatic event, he, like most people -- I assume, starts to analyze his life and through a series of incredible events, you start to see his goodness. That thing that people think that they might be capable of, but either because they\u2019re not presented with the situations or because they\u2019re conscious of being \u2018good\u2019 then, well, it\u2019s less real, right? Yeah, I don\u2019t expect you to get it. I\u2019m still sorting it out. Okay, do you ever get that feeling? That sense of\u2026 oh, I can\u2019t find the right words, I can only describe it as a warm fuzzy . It\u2019s this sense of childish hope, that people ARE good---and not good like someone letting you cut in line at the grocery store because you have 2 items to their 20 or someone following the correct etiquette of \u2018merging into traffic\u2019, but have you experienced true goodness? I have. I know I have. I\u2019ve remembered coming home and being so excited to retell the story of something that renewed my faith in mankind. I remember grinning , not just smiling or smirking but full on ear-to-ear, pearly whites, make your face hurt, grinning . Of course I can\u2019t even give you one example of that kind of warm fuzzy. Isn\u2019t that telling? Hmmm\u2026 So, Richard embarks on this crazy, sometimes too surreal to be true, but maybe it can be, sort of journey. And he becomes The Good Samaritan, The Good Neighbor, The Anonymous Benefactor. He\u2019s the kind of guy I would hope to be if money were never an issue. Yet, through all this you see him struggle with himself. His fear of dying, of not being a better son, brother, husband, father. This is what makes me just want to be in his presence, like maybe I\u2019d catch some of what he is. I\u2019d be tempted to use the word \u2018aura\u2019 but it might just be the Californian influence within the book, This is what made me hate to see the book end. Bittersweet? Does that work? Hell, I\u2019m going to throw it out there. There\u2019s this great scene towards the end. Richard takes his 17 yr. old estranged son to DisneyLand. You can see that Ben is fighting something, trying to recapture some sense of his lost childhood. He\u2019s fighting with his father, yelling at him while riding the teacups or waiting for Space Mountain and Richard is taking it, feeling like he deserves it. Ben\u2019s trying to work out all these emotions, worried about an expiration date or something---afraid to see this day end. And there\u2019s this scene: They get in line for the driving ride. You must be at least three years old and so high to go on this ride. \u201cAren\u2019t we a little old?\u201d \u201cHow can we be too old? We never did it before,\u201d Ben says. I love this sentiment. It brings tears to my eyes and gives me that hope that someday that warm fuzzy will be more than a passing flicker. Or at least that I\u2019ll be able to recall it next time. ...more I found this book in the belongings of my best friend who passed away in Nov. of 2006. She kept it around as a joke; she was dying of cancer. I read the book this January, to see what it was all about, noting that it was authored by one of my faves - <---A>A.M. Homes</---A>. It was ubsurdly unique timing. The book saved my life in a sense, at least saved my spirit. It tells the story of a man lost in the day-to-day routine of his scheduled life, a man who long ago set his feelings aside about things. It is t I found this book in the belongings of my best friend who passed away in Nov. of 2006. She kept it around as a joke; she was dying of cancer. I read the book this January, to see what it was all about, noting that it was authored by one of my faves - A.M. Homes. It was ubsurdly unique timing. The book saved my life in a sense, at least saved my spirit. It tells the story of a man lost in the day-to-day routine of his scheduled life, a man who long ago set his feelings aside about things. It is the story of his unraveling and all the people he meets along the way and their unravelings, embracing the beauty and messiness of such a process, reminding us of the power of humanity. Random wayward folk become friends and lovers in this tale of human connection. I found the book to be inspiring, emotional, and funny. I recommend it to anyone who's questioning their existence, the meaning of it all, or who just wants to vicariously live the experience of coming to terms with it all. It was a rockin' book! ...more I would rather stick rusty tacs under my fingernails while listening to my mother on speaker phone, in public, as she breaks down just exactly what I'm doing wrong in my life than finish this book. It\u2019s possible this book is already your life. And it\u2019s a little tiny bit my life too. This book left me cold. Not indifferent-this-is-failing-to-evoke-a-reaction cold. The good kind of cold. The this-feels-eerily-close-to-reality cold. Surreal. What if we cut ourselves off from everyone and everything intentionally? What if we are already doing that without even noticing? I think we already are. When was the last time you held someone\u2019s hand? When was the last time you sent out a hand written let It\u2019s possible this book is already your life. And it\u2019s a little tiny bit my life too. This book left me cold. Not indifferent-this-is-failing-to-evoke-a-reaction cold. The good kind of cold. The this-feels-eerily-close-to-reality cold. Surreal. What if we cut ourselves off from everyone and everything intentionally? What if we are already doing that without even noticing? I think we already are. When was the last time you held someone\u2019s hand? When was the last time you sent out a hand written letter? Called instead of texted? Visited instead of emailed? When was the last time you ate carbohydrates? Our world is lonely. We are all seeking connections. We all yearn. And in this book the world is the Los Angeles landscape of plastic dreamy heartbreak. Are you a good parent? A good Samaritan? Are you even aware of who you are? And who are these characters that weave in and out of your life leaving merely a smudge of an impression? For every time I started to think this book was just lightly entertaining there would come a scene so real and brutal it would hurt a bit. Broken child-parent relationships. Exes whose scent still lingers. Women sobbing in the produce section of a supermarket. A horse air lifted out of a sink hole in your backyard by a movie star. Doughnuts. You kind of have to read this book to get it. And you should read this book. Because as wildly enjoyable and funny as it is, the core of it is all ache. And we are all aching. ...more Three and a half stars. An imagined medical emergency brings on an existential crisis in an over-bred, overwealthy but rather likeable WASP who is brought into contact with people who have little money and discovers they are as real as he is. Those with money in the book seem to be shallow and self-invented and those without have, thinks the protagonist, the secret of life. And donuts. But wave goodbye as he disappears, perhaps, over the horizon in the ocean, washed there by an earthquake that vom Three and a half stars. An imagined medical emergency brings on an existential crisis in an over-bred, overwealthy but rather likeable WASP who is brought into contact with people who have little money and discovers they are as real as he is. Those with money in the book seem to be shallow and self-invented and those without have, thinks the protagonist, the secret of life. And donuts. But wave goodbye as he disappears, perhaps, over the horizon in the ocean, washed there by an earthquake that vomits a sea of sewage and detritus leaving him marooned gaily on a floating table with dog and cell phone. A metaphor for his once-charmed life in Los Angeles. To paraphrase the protagonist's own words: bye bye, we won't forget you. We'll remember you even when we aren't here... ...more I usually stay away from contemporary fiction, but this one was in the book dumpster so I took it. (Not a good excuse, I know.) Given the combination of male midlife crisis, L.A. strangeness, and present tenseness, it's something of a miracle I was able to get past page 30. But it was actually fairly funny. Richard, the wealthy protagonist whose life feels meaningless until he begins rescuing other people from their problems, is likeable. My favorite character was his movie star next door neighb I usually stay away from contemporary fiction, but this one was in the book dumpster so I took it. (Not a good excuse, I know.) Given the combination of male midlife crisis, L.A. strangeness, and present tenseness, it's something of a miracle I was able to get past page 30. But it was actually fairly funny. Richard, the wealthy protagonist whose life feels meaningless until he begins rescuing other people from their problems, is likeable. My favorite character was his movie star next door neighbor who has been through every experience before Richard. Meditation workshop? He has a buckwheat butt cushion to lend. Richard has foot fungus? He's ready to tell Richard how he had to take medicine for a year. Even though he was a movie star and not a rock star, I kept picturing Bret Michaels, who is always ready to help and never shuts up, in that needy way. I probably won't ever pick up another book by this author, but reading this, while I don't think it saved my life, didn't kill me either. I just have to mention the blurb on the back from blurbwhore Stephen King, one of the most farcical blurbs I have ever read: \"I think this brave story of a lost man's reconnection with the world could become a generational touchstone, like Catch-22 or The Catcher in the Rye ...\" Really? Stephen King really thinks that could happen ? What a lying turd. ...more <+++>This Book Will Save Your Life</+++> begins with Richard Novak, a wealthy Los Angeleno, having a health scare that sends him to the emergency room. The trauma causes Richard to look at the world and his outward success differently and he begins to make connections with the people he encounters--the man who sells him donuts, a woman he sees crying in the produce section, a neighbor he had never talked to--and with the people that he has spent a great deal of his adult life trying to avoid--his parents, <+++>This Book Will Save Your Life</+++> begins with Richard Novak, a wealthy Los Angeleno, having a health scare that sends him to the emergency room. The trauma causes Richard to look at the world and his outward success differently and he begins to make connections with the people he encounters--the man who sells him donuts, a woman he sees crying in the produce section, a neighbor he had never talked to--and with the people that he has spent a great deal of his adult life trying to avoid--his parents, his brother, his ex-wife, and the son he abandoned. By trying to pay just a bit more attention to what is going on around him, Richard's life changes dramatically. I loved this book. It's quirky, has a weird title, but is unexpectedly uplifting. It makes you believe that small changes of perception can lead to big experiences. ...more In the latter of her two literary epochs (the first being characterized by gritty, hyper-sexualized works like Jack and The End of Alice ), A.M. Homes has written about slightly absurd things that happen to slightly absurd people. This Book Will Save Your Life fits this mold almost too perfectly: a man's nervous breakdown leads to a series of unusual events, each helping him return his life to good 'ol fashioned American normalcy. That This Book Will Save Your Life is one of Homes's most successf In the latter of her two literary epochs (the first being characterized by gritty, hyper-sexualized works like Jack and The End of Alice ), A.M. Homes has written about slightly absurd things that happen to slightly absurd people. This Book Will Save Your Life fits this mold almost too perfectly: a man's nervous breakdown leads to a series of unusual events, each helping him return his life to good 'ol fashioned American normalcy. That This Book Will Save Your Life is one of Homes's most successful ventures speaks in equal parts to the author's departure from truly groundbreaking writing and America's passive, lazy hope that our problems can/will be solved by luck and happenstance alone. ...more this was one of the worst books i'd read in a long time. it was so bad i made myself finish it. as punishment for ever starting it. i boutht the book after seeing her read at B&N. No, non mi ha salvato la vita, mi ha solo rotto le balle per la maggior parte del tempo. Questo \u00e8 il classico titolo ideato solo con lo scopo dell'attirare l'attenzione. Voglio dire, se vedete un titolo con un libro del genere, per un attimo lo prendete anche solo in mano. Perbacco, qui c'\u00e8 una promessa scritta . E voi inconsapevolmente ci contate su quella promessa, pensate gi\u00e0 all'ipotetica sbandata, voi ci credete davvero che potrebbe salvarvi la vita. Poi se non avete bisogno di salvagenti lib No, non mi ha salvato la vita, mi ha solo rotto le balle per la maggior parte del tempo. Questo \u00e8 il classico titolo ideato solo con lo scopo dell'attirare l'attenzione. Voglio dire, se vedete un titolo con un libro del genere, per un attimo lo prendete anche solo in mano. Perbacco, qui c'\u00e8 una promessa scritta . E voi inconsapevolmente ci contate su quella promessa, pensate gi\u00e0 all'ipotetica sbandata, voi ci credete davvero che potrebbe salvarvi la vita. Poi se non avete bisogno di salvagenti libreschi, allora \u00e8 un'altra storia. Ecco, non v'illudete. Non salva un bel niente, anzi, per il 75 % non \u00e8 neanche tanto interessante. Anzi, io non ho ancora capito che c'entra il titolo con la storia. E'..sterile. Questo \u00e8 il punto. King dice cos\u00ec: \"Penso che questa storia coraggiosa di un uomo perduto a se stesso che si riaggancia al mondo potrebbe diventare una pietra miliare generazionale, come Comma 22 di Heller, I Sabotatori di Abbey, o Il giovane Holden di Salinger. C'\u00e8 molto ottimismo nel romanzo, ma la tonalit\u00e0 asciutta della Homes fa s\u00ec che non suoni fasullo come un biglietto d'auguri. E a questo contribuisce l'atmosfera del romanzo che \u00e8 quella della stravagante Los Angeles del ventunesimo secolo. E poi, chiss\u00e0, forse davvero salver\u00e0 la vita a qualcuno..\" Okay, ma cos\u00ec \u00e8 troppo asciutto. E no, non diventer\u00e0 mai una pietra miliare generazionale. Il giovane Holden era pieno, ma dico pieno, della personalit\u00e0 del suo protagonista, invece qui abbiamo un Richard che \u00e8 mezzo amorfo mezzo buon samaritano. E basta. Finita qui. Anzi, diamogli un punto in pi\u00f9. Perch\u00e9 lui si rende conto di essere amorfo, anzi, lo ripete pi\u00f9 volte in caso tu non lo capisca. \"Io sono morto, non sento niente, sono insensibile\". Eh, ho notato . Il punto \u00e8 ..che non \u00e8 che \u00e8 insensibile, \u00e8 che non ha personalit\u00e0. Non ce l'ha, \u00e8 inutile. La Homes da una buona caratterizzazione dei personaggi, Anhil - il ciambellaro - in qualche modo le \u00e8 riuscito. Ma Richard, che \u00e8 il protagonista, non ha nulla. E' uno di quei casi in cui se gli fanno del male, il lettore \u00e8 portato spontaneamente a dire \"e a me che frega?\". Perch\u00e9 non sembra neanche un vero essere umano, una persona, sembra uno schizzo di un ipotetico personaggio, l'ombra di qualche idea mai attuata. La storia... la storiaaaaah . Le prime pagine sono ipnotiche, ti catturano, ed \u00e8 l\u00ec che sta il guaio. Perch\u00e9 la Homes sa perfettamente di averti catturato e quindi di essersi assicurata la tua attenzione. Tant'\u00e9 vero che per le prossime duecento pagine se la prende comoda. Fa un po' cazzeggiare il suo protagonista - perch\u00e9 in alcuni libri non si pu\u00f2 far altro che dire \"basta cazzeggiare, porca miseria, fate qualcosa\" - e c'\u00e8 una serie di eventi assurdi, ma non realmente interessanti. Avete presente quando siete consapevoli delle assurdit\u00e0 che stanno accadendo, ma lo scrittore fa in modo che siano interessanti, divertenti? Ecco, non \u00e8 il caso della Homes. Avviene tutto con questo tono.. troppo asciutto, che ti fa dire di continuo \"non-me-ne-frega delle conseguenze\". E all'inizio l'ex-moglie e il figlio sono esageratamente antipatici e noncuranti verso Richard, una cosa quasi innaturale. La Homes poi si ricorda che deve in qualche modo salvare un po' la situazione, e cos\u00ec scrive delle belle pagine - a tratti - sull'incontro fra padre-figlio dopo tanto tempo. Il punto \u00e8 che lei nonostante la trama, scrive bene, ci sono delle belle frasette ogni tanto, per\u00f2 la storia diventa noiosa ad un certo punto. Non so se avesse poca voglia di mettere su una bella storia, o se anzi, si fosse impegnata e non avesse afferrato la scadenza della trama. Non lo so. In ogni caso lo ribadisco, non \u00e8 un romanzo abbastanza \"forte\" per poter insegnare qualcosa di rilevante a qualcuno, infatti non mi sembra che a distanza di qualche anno se ne parli ancora. E' tutto troppo..sterile, troppo. Come se mandassi gi\u00f9 una pastiglia bianca che non sa di niente. P.S: se siete dei ciambellomani, non leggete questo libro. Potrebbe portarvi a fare follie. ...more Wow. Wow. wow. This book sneaks up on you - it starts out really strong, and then only gets better. We are introducted to Richard Novak, a reclusive, wealthy middle-aged man living in Los Angeles who pretty much doesn't need to leave his house anymore - he has his trainer, his housekeeper and his nutritionist to keep him going. But then he has an attack of pain that causes him to call 911 and to come in contact with a series of people. Next there is a mysterious sink hole in front of his house, Wow. Wow. wow. This book sneaks up on you - it starts out really strong, and then only gets better. We are introducted to Richard Novak, a reclusive, wealthy middle-aged man living in Los Angeles who pretty much doesn't need to leave his house anymore - he has his trainer, his housekeeper and his nutritionist to keep him going. But then he has an attack of pain that causes him to call 911 and to come in contact with a series of people. Next there is a mysterious sink hole in front of his house, and Richard finds himself coming in to contact with yet more people (including his fabulous movie star neighbor in a hilarious scene involing a horse and a helicopter) This is a great Los Angeles novel and really gives you a beautiful sense of the city - from the Hills, to Malibu, to the highway culture and the natural disasters always looming in LA (mountain lions, floods, earthquakes). But the really special thing about this book is that a little more than halfway through, it suddenly begins to gain even more depth--as Richard's son tries to connect with him and Richard begins to connect with others. This book captures an LA vibe perfectly, it is also very visual and occasionally funny. The ending is quit excellent and will have you engaged up through the last page. I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in LA or who has an appreciation for AM Homes darkly insightful writing style. Really a brilliant book that will surprise you and make you glad you read it - I can see it as a wonderful movie (indie film of course). ...more Actual Rating. 4.5 stars. A.M Homes is quickly becoming one of my favourite authors. In 2013 I read The End of Alice and even though it dealt with a rough topic I was captivated by it and outraged by it all at the same time. What drew me in the most was the voice of the protagonist. He spoke properly and it was old-timey, and yet he was a paedophile who was imprisoned for a heinous crime. When I picked up This Book Will Save Your Life I wondered whether the writing style would be the same, wheth Actual Rating. 4.5 stars. A.M Homes is quickly becoming one of my favourite authors. In 2013 I read The End of Alice and even though it dealt with a rough topic I was captivated by it and outraged by it all at the same time. What drew me in the most was the voice of the protagonist. He spoke properly and it was old-timey, and yet he was a paedophile who was imprisoned for a heinous crime. When I picked up This Book Will Save Your Life I wondered whether the writing style would be the same, whether the voice of Richard (the protagonist) would be similar and I was surprised (and relieved) to find it was completely different. This Book Will Save Your Life is about Richard. He\u2019s locked himself away for something like a decade, reduced his life to nothing much more than playing with his stocks and living a healthy lifestyle dictated by his personal trainer and his nutritionist. He has nothing in the way of friends, and spends little time with his family. But then one day Richard suffers terrible pain and ends up in the emergency room. From here, things start to change in his life. He reconnects with himself, with his family and with the world around him. He stops rigidly following the rules of healthy living that he\u2019s adhered to for years and starts actually living his life. He saves a horse from a sinkhole, has lunch with a movie star, befriends a lonely woman in the grocery store, goes on meditation retreat where everyone gets the shits, he gets an internal massage (you\u2019ll have to wait an see what that entails) and he drives John Lennon\u2019s car. The characters in this book are quirky and utterly hilarious. Set in LA, the people tend to be blunt, if not outright rude. Richard is such a likeable character, despite the fact it\u2019s pretty clear he\u2019s been behaving like a bit of an ass for going on ten years. But the important point is that we can see why. It makes sense, and he\u2019s not behaving that way because he is an asshole, but because he\u2019s afraid, and miserable and he doesn\u2019t know what else to do. In some respects, Richard reminded me of my father. He wants to do well, but he just can\u2019t quite figure out what it is that other people might need. Throughout the book we see Richard come to life, and there is some nice writing in their about the nature of suffering: \u201cSuffering is normal. Pain is normal, it is part of life. So why are we here? Why are we afraid of suffering? Why do we try and avoid suffering? We do we think it is wrong to suffer? We medicate, we medicate we are desperate not to suffer\u201d \u201cIf you sit with the discomfort it will change\u201d. These are things that we would all benefit from learning. So will this book actually save your life? Probably not. But if you read it, you will learn a few things: That it\u2019s never too late to try again, relationships can be mended, pain can be felt and endured, that the world is full of wonderful people and wonderful experiences if only you open yourself up to the possibilities. These are things we forget when we are suffering. We tend to withdraw, hide ourselves away, retreat into ourselves and allow our pain to engulf us. For me this book was a much needed reminder that life does go on, if only you live it. Now, go read it! ...more I listened to the audiobook from Audible.com. I very much enjoyed this novel. It was laugh out loud funny in places. Publisher's Summary Since her debut in 1989, A.M. Homes has been among the boldest and most original voices of her generation, acclaimed for the psychological accuracy and unnerving emotional intensity of her storytelling. Her keen ability to explore how extraordinary the ordinary can be is at the heart of her touching and funny new novel, her first in six years. Richard Novak is a mo I listened to the audiobook from Audible.com. I very much enjoyed this novel. It was laugh out loud funny in places. Publisher's Summary Since her debut in 1989, A.M. Homes has been among the boldest and most original voices of her generation, acclaimed for the psychological accuracy and unnerving emotional intensity of her storytelling. Her keen ability to explore how extraordinary the ordinary can be is at the heart of her touching and funny new novel, her first in six years. Richard Novak is a modern-day Everyman, a middle-aged divorce trading stocks out of his home. He has done such a good job getting his life under control that he needs no one, except his trainer, nutritionist, and housekeeper. He is functionally dead and doesn't even notice until two incidents (an attack of intense pain that lands him in the emergency room and the discovery of an expanding sinkhole outside his house) conspire to hurl him back into the world. On his way home from the hospital, Richard forms the first of many new relationships: He meets Anhil, the doughnut shop owner, an immigrant who dreams big. He finds a weeping housewife in the produce section of the supermarket, helps save a horse that has fallen into the sinkhole, daringly rescues a woman from the trunk of her kidnapper's car, and, after the sinkhole claims his house and he has to relocate to a Malibu rental, he befriends a reluctant counterculture icon. In the end, Richard is also brought back in closer touch with his family; his aging parents, his brilliant brother, the beloved ex-wife whom he still desires, and finally, before the story's breathtaking finale, with his estranged son Ben. The promised land of Los Angeles, a surreal city of earthquakes, wildfires, mudslides, and feral Chihuahuas, is also very much a character in This Book Will Save Your Life. A vivid, revealing novel about compassion, transformation, and what can happen if you are willing to lose yourself and open up to the world around you, it should significantly broaden Homes' already substantial audience. ...more First of all I need to admit that this book was written very well. The author has a compelling style and it's very easy to read. I read this book faster than I usually do because the prose just flowed off the page and through my brain. For that reason alone I'm glad I read this book, and it's the reason it has two stars rather than one. Sadly this book goes nowhere. At all. Things happen. There are even plot resolutions. But they're so artfully hidden, so well-buried under that pile of prose that First of all I need to admit that this book was written very well. The author has a compelling style and it's very easy to read. I read this book faster than I usually do because the prose just flowed off the page and through my brain. For that reason alone I'm glad I read this book, and it's the reason it has two stars rather than one. Sadly this book goes nowhere. At all. Things happen. There are even plot resolutions. But they're so artfully hidden, so well-buried under that pile of prose that you only realise that something has happened hours later. And that robs the book of any closure. I've had a few weeks to think about it and figure out the story. And I still feel like someone tore out the last chapter of the copy I read. It's just left me with unresolved frustated feelings for the book. Which is ironic, given the subject matter. This book didn't save my life. The cover gave me a doughnut craving and the story ended up irritating me. That's a blood sugar spike and a ounce of stress right there. ...more Not the normal genre I read but a friend recommended it, so I branched out. I wasn't sure if I would like it, but what a talented author A.M. Homes is!!! Richard Novak is distant and closed off from his family and friends. He's been floating through his work driven life until one day he simply can't ignore life anymore. His journey is both eye-opening and hilarious. This book is written from Richard's very unique perspective and might indeed save your life. I was so wrapped up in the story, I ac Not the normal genre I read but a friend recommended it, so I branched out. I wasn't sure if I would like it, but what a talented author A.M. Homes is!!! Richard Novak is distant and closed off from his family and friends. He's been floating through his work driven life until one day he simply can't ignore life anymore. His journey is both eye-opening and hilarious. This book is written from Richard's very unique perspective and might indeed save your life. I was so wrapped up in the story, I actually didn't want it to end! I'll definitely be reading more by this author in the future. ...more This is the twelfth book I read on my commute. I started it after getting back from vacation in August, and while I was on vacation I read two other books - The Plutonium Blonde and Adventure! Vol. 1 - but those don't count as commute books since I read them on the beach. This Book is almost a prototype for what I think of when I think \"modern lit\" - not much of a plot, just slice of life stuff about how ordinary people relate and get by. This Book has some characters who are a little more offbea This is the twelfth book I read on my commute. I started it after getting back from vacation in August, and while I was on vacation I read two other books - The Plutonium Blonde and Adventure! Vol. 1 - but those don't count as commute books since I read them on the beach. This Book is almost a prototype for what I think of when I think \"modern lit\" - not much of a plot, just slice of life stuff about how ordinary people relate and get by. This Book has some characters who are a little more offbeat than most, and takes place in California, which for a dyed-in-the-wool East Coaster like me means the whole setting is pretty offbeat. It's hard to give a synopsis because, as I said, there's really not much plot. The protagonist, Richard Novak, is a middle-aged man who has a spiritual crisis and sets out to reinvent his life (see comment above about being \"prototypical\"). The fallout form the crisis and the efforts to move past it are often absurd, just teetering on the edge of believability. Maybe in California it isn't that strange to befriend a movie star because he helps you rescue an escaped horse from a sinkhole on your property. I wouldn't know. Absurd or not, Richard's trials and tribulations are amusing, sometimes made me laugh, and often made me think. I can give four stars for that. Running total for types of books read on the commute: Classics: 1 Modern Lit: 2 Fantasy/sci-fi: 6 Non-fiction: 3 ...more Ok. I finished this book. I started out excited about it. I liked the charachter and wondered what was going to happen. It was very easy to read and had a variety of characters. I get the everyday stuff that people go through.....and the feeling that each of them had of just wanting to be normal. But what is normal anyway?? I guess what ruined this book for me was the realationship and character of the son. I was so disappointed at what the author made him out to be that it ruined the book for m Ok. I finished this book. I started out excited about it. I liked the charachter and wondered what was going to happen. It was very easy to read and had a variety of characters. I get the everyday stuff that people go through.....and the feeling that each of them had of just wanting to be normal. But what is normal anyway?? I guess what ruined this book for me was the realationship and character of the son. I was so disappointed at what the author made him out to be that it ruined the book for me. Also, I thought the ending was really \"cheezy,\" almost like the author couldn't come up with anyway better to end the book. In my opinion the book turned weird. I'm anxioux to hear everyone elses review. ...more I thought this was really impressive: your meaningless existence, the sinkhole that steals your home, and the donuts that offer salvation. It's theological fiction. This book will not save your life - in fact, it may hasten the coming of the end of your life as you slowly die from boredom while reading this. (Melo)drama Just for Laugh The self-recovery theme (with its adjacent motives - the assumption of the past and the reshaping of the future) was explored by so many authors that it seemed at some point a too beaten path. Well, if you thought so also, This Book Will Save Your Life may surprise you, beginning with the very title, with its misleading promise of both of a salutary epiphany and a useful tip for self-help, and continuing with a perpetual contrast between the gravity of the theme and th (Melo)drama Just for Laugh The self-recovery theme (with its adjacent motives - the assumption of the past and the reshaping of the future) was explored by so many authors that it seemed at some point a too beaten path. Well, if you thought so also, This Book Will Save Your Life may surprise you, beginning with the very title, with its misleading promise of both of a salutary epiphany and a useful tip for self-help, and continuing with a perpetual contrast between the gravity of the theme and the comic absurdity of its development. Here is all the drama of a lost love, of the disintegration of a family, of a middle-age crisis built around a typical (seemingly) anti-hero: Richard Novak, who left his wife and son many years ago because he couldn\u2019t stand anymore the emotional void of his marriage but, unable to live without his family neither, found a way to remove the burden of feelings by living without living, drifting comfortably at the edge of existence: He hears nothing, feels nothing, he makes sure of that. He wakes up, puts on his noise-cancelling headset, goes to the glass, looks at the woman swimming, and gets on his machine. He is in a vacuum of silence \u2014 life cancelled. The only thing he takes care of is his body, which he has exercised daily and fed according to the nutritionist\u2019s advice. The only thing he asks for is neatness and predictability \u2013 the right to live every day the same way. He is a shadow, an automaton, an appearance without essence, arguably a tragic symbol of the alienation of the modern man. Until one day, when he finds himself in incredible pain, and wakes up to willing to change: He wants to be heroic, larger than life \u2014 rescue people from burning buildings, leap over rooftops. And he wants people to notice him. He catches his reflection in the chrome dairy case. How does a middle-aged Joe become anything, much less a superhero? And his wishes are all granted, and the antihero changes into a Superhero, a Good Samaritan, a Santa Claus, a Mythical Father. His eventless life becomes suddenly absurdly eventful, he saves everybody, everywhere, from a desperate housewife in a supermarket and a kidnapped girl in a trunk to a horse in a sinkhole; he meets and is popular with all kind of people, like a doughnut maker, a famous writer, a TV star, he makes love (after many years of abstinence) to a one-breasted woman, and burst into a high-security office (where a former president happened to have a meeting) to avenge his son, who had been humiliated by a secret agent. All the stereotypes of goodness, redemption, heroism and charity are indiscriminately put together in a jumble of events that can only happen in that make-believe L. A., where holes appeared from nowhere threaten to engulf an entire neighborhood, where Chihuahuas are feral, where \u201ccrime scene\u201d tapes are used when construction workers run out of \u201ccaution\u201d tapes, where accidents are mistaken for movie shots and Bob Dylan for a cleaning lady, where Bentleys can be seen in Target parking lot, where one can ask whether Holden Caulfield is dead or alive, shortly where everything is a prop: \"There is something funny about this table,\" Cynthia says. \"It looks like stone but weighs nothing.\" \"It's a prop,\" Nic says. \"You can buy things like this all the time, discarded props. It looks like something but it's nothing.\" The story of this made-up world that kills and revives its people with the same weapons but reversing methods, finishes in the same improbable but funny way, countering once again the melodrama of the big words and repressed feelings with the caricature of the theatrical actions and the cardboard d\u00e9cor. For isn't it significant that Richard\u2019s emotional promise to his son (\"I'll always be here, even when you can't see me, I'm still here.\") is communicated via a cellphone wrapped in a glow-in-the-dark condom, while our hero is floating on a Styrofoam table, that is, on a something that is nothing\u2026 ...more No, it won't. A.M. Homes's This Book Will Save Your Life can't even generate enough energy to save itself. This tepid satire about modern America begins with Richard Novak, a wealthy day trader, having a panic attack and being rushed to the hospital with \"incredible pain\" all over his body: \"He lay there realizing how thoroughly he'd removed himself from the world or obligations, how stupidly independent he'd become: he needed no one, knew no one, was not part of anyone's life. He'd so thoroughly No, it won't. A.M. Homes's This Book Will Save Your Life can't even generate enough energy to save itself. This tepid satire about modern America begins with Richard Novak, a wealthy day trader, having a panic attack and being rushed to the hospital with \"incredible pain\" all over his body: \"He lay there realizing how thoroughly he'd removed himself from the world or obligations, how stupidly independent he'd become: he needed no one, knew no one, was not part of anyone's life. He'd so thoroughly removed himself from the world of dependencies and obligations, he wasn't sure he still existed.\" That existential crisis could lead to great pathos or great comedy, but over the next 300 pages, Richard meanders through a series of chance encounters, reaching out with new interest and generosity to strangers who never become much more than their costumes. There's the Middle Eastern owner of a donut shop, the housewife crying in the grocery store, the handsome movie star, the reclusive '60s novelist. Richard befriends them all with low-key good cheer and somehow manages to change his life completely with about as much effort as I've expended switching shampoos. He gives away new cars, pays for his maid's hip replacement, sends the weary housewife to a spa. \"This is the person he wants to be,\" Homes writes. \"He wants to be able to do this for others, strangers, it doesn't matter who, and he wants to be able to do it for himself.\" His Good Samaritan impulse also inspires a series of impromptu rescue operations: A horse is trapped in a sinkhole, a hostage is trapped in a trunk, a woman is trapped in a bad marriage. These episodes are mildly amusing (for 15 minutes, he's a national celebrity, a punch line on Letterman), but because Richard is so imperturbable and his success so firmly guaranteed, the scenes never develop any real suspense. The larger problem, though, is the dullness of Homes's satiric edge. She portrays Los Angeles as a city collapsing -- morally and physically -- but it's Apocalypse Lite. Anyone who wants to make fun of bizarre diets, ludicrous luxuries, New Age fads and crippling exercise regimes has to stay ahead of the ever-escalating real-world grotesqueries of modern life. If you're as isolated and disconnected as Richard, you'll find the details here surprising and hilarious, but otherwise, it's yesterday's news. Only in the last third of the novel, when Richard's 17-year-old son arrives after many years of separation, does the story make an emotional connection that doesn't seem contrived. Richard finally has a chance to save the one person he should have been concerned about from the start, but two-thirds of a novel makes for a long prologue. And when his son finally confronts him with resentments saved up through adolescence, it's a shriek of psychological pain like being awakened by a firecracker: shocking but not very illuminating. Save yourself. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/... ...more Drawn to this book by the lovely donuts on the cover together with the promise that this book would save my life, I am left utterly disappointed. Who picks a title like this, very arrogant. Living in Beverley Hills divorced Richard Novak the main charactor is a rich online investor who has no contact with the outside world and other than his housekeeper sees no one. The book shows him accepting that he has become a recluse and sets out on the path to living again, or save his life as the title s Drawn to this book by the lovely donuts on the cover together with the promise that this book would save my life, I am left utterly disappointed. Who picks a title like this, very arrogant. Living in Beverley Hills divorced Richard Novak the main charactor is a rich online investor who has no contact with the outside world and other than his housekeeper sees no one. The book shows him accepting that he has become a recluse and sets out on the path to living again, or save his life as the title states. The catalyst is calling 911 following is a suspected heartattack. All seems fairly straight forward in the opening pages so far. But oh, then comes some very unbelievable events, some herotic deeds, brushes with celebrity, horses, morsecode, beach parties and yes a donut man. None of these were convincing, I failed to connect with Richard and cared little for his journey or where it would end. The fact that he was so mega rich made his every whim possible, no hardships, no struggle, nothing. Im still in shock at the whole morse code affair, what was that all about how utterly ridiculous. It was at this point that I knew I was reading a turkey. If you enjoy books with no sense of direction, rambling plot which goes no where all set against the back drop of the rich and famous in LA read this. If you want to save your life look elsewhere. This review will save your life, maybe not your life, but perhaps hours of un necessary reading ! ...more There are some very extreme, polarized reviews about this one. Well, this book and I were just the right fit. Like meeting a new friend and feeling like you've always known each other. It is a surreal story of one man's wake up call to life, a jarring process of self-redemption. Richard, the main man, the detached and forgetful wealthy workaholic, finds himself suddenly thrust into series of events and interactions with strangers that are almost too outlandish. But it all works, and LA is the per There are some very extreme, polarized reviews about this one. Well, this book and I were just the right fit. Like meeting a new friend and feeling like you've always known each other. It is a surreal story of one man's wake up call to life, a jarring process of self-redemption. Richard, the main man, the detached and forgetful wealthy workaholic, finds himself suddenly thrust into series of events and interactions with strangers that are almost too outlandish. But it all works, and LA is the perfect setting for it, somehow. The entire time reading the novel I felt like it was a book directed by David Lynch, if that makes any sense. It is a slightly dreamy book, and that is how Richard moves about, in a daze. You know that whole existential process where a person is challenged to say \"Yes\" to everything in life? (I wouldn't want to do that, I think that could be dangerous, but I digress.) Well, Richard basically ends up saying Yes to every outlandish thing that happens to him, and it's handled by Homes very subtly and in a very believable way. Becoming best friends with a crying lady in a super market? Rescuing a horse from a ditch with a movie star? Giving your Mercedes to a doughnut shop owner you just met so he could take it for a drive? Yes, why not, yes! Well, I'm glad I said Yes to this book at the thrift store. I recommend it. You should say Yes and read it. ...more It's true. The title, that is. I'm still alive. I might have died had I not read this book. You might have died had I not read this book. But this book won't save your life. By the way, what are you doing with that life? Yeah, you're online, reading about reading or searching for more to read or... Is it quiet? Can you feel your pulse? (Go ahead, I'll wait.) How did we get here? That's a question our main character Richard asks himself as his life of routine and financial success is suddenly knoc It's true. The title, that is. I'm still alive. I might have died had I not read this book. You might have died had I not read this book. But this book won't save your life. By the way, what are you doing with that life? Yeah, you're online, reading about reading or searching for more to read or... Is it quiet? Can you feel your pulse? (Go ahead, I'll wait.) How did we get here? That's a question our main character Richard asks himself as his life of routine and financial success is suddenly knocked askance by a trip to the emergency room for a mysterious pain. His pain seems more existential than physical. But it still hurts. A lot. He's lost connection with people, with emotion, with himself. And he's in L.A., where reconnecting consists of random, bizarre events, over-priced retreats, befriending the immigrant who runs the donut shop, and restarting a relationship with his son, whom he left near a decade ago. Along the way, he becomes a bit of a hero, takes in a dog, shares his wealth, and tries to make sense of this odd existence we call life. Homes weaves a tale that is at times ludicrous, often absurd, frequently damn funny, and always rather touching underneath it all. She is quickly worming her way into my small circle of most-favored, living writers. ...more I'd been waiting to get my hands on A.M. Homes' new book, May We Be Forgiven, but the title is in demand right now...so I picked up her 2006 title and I really liked it. This Book Will Save Your Life is a funny, though darkly funny and at times an almost painful look at how we live now. Set in L.A., it is the story of 55-year-old Richard Novak, financially successful but so disconnected from life that his few human interactions are with people he pays...his housekeeper, his nutritionist, his trai I'd been waiting to get my hands on A.M. Homes' new book, May We Be Forgiven, but the title is in demand right now...so I picked up her 2006 title and I really liked it. This Book Will Save Your Life is a funny, though darkly funny and at times an almost painful look at how we live now. Set in L.A., it is the story of 55-year-old Richard Novak, financially successful but so disconnected from life that his few human interactions are with people he pays...his housekeeper, his nutritionist, his trainer. He wears noise-cancelling headphones a lot. Richard is divorced from his NYC-based wife and largely absent from his teenage son's life. He rarely speaks with his retired parents or his older brother. He seems to have no friends. Then one day he is struck with an overwhelming pain. He thinks heart attack and calls 911. The ER finds nothing and releases Richard, but the pain episode...and a dangerous sinkhole rapidly growing very near his house in the hills...help to move Richard in a new, maybe transformative/redemptive direction. The L.A. setting is perfect. Don't let the saber-tooth cat on the cover of the trade paperback put you off. It is a bit...odd. ...more Written after I read the book: Maybe it won't save my life, but it's a good read all the same. Written much much later (felt guilty that I'd written such a short review): The premise: 'Richard is a modern day everyman.. he has done such a good job getting his life under control that he needs no one. His life has slowed almost to a standstill..' could almost describe me. Thing is though, it's set in some sunny US State; if it were set in a cloudy town in the north of England, then I would be looking Written after I read the book: Maybe it won't save my life, but it's a good read all the same. Written much much later (felt guilty that I'd written such a short review): The premise: 'Richard is a modern day everyman.. he has done such a good job getting his life under control that he needs no one. His life has slowed almost to a standstill..' could almost describe me. Thing is though, it's set in some sunny US State; if it were set in a cloudy town in the north of England, then I would be looking anxiously out of the window for evidence of the author stalking me and using my life as fiction fodder. Also, I would have been able to relate to the book more easily. It's months and months since I read the book now and although I remember an attempt to save a script, and a sinkhole, and a Bob Dylan (or someone like that), and a fairground wheel, and a person in crisis moving from one state of being to another, there's little else that sticks and so this is why I conclude that it ain't saved my life, or even changed my life. But there is a fuzzy feeling of having enjoyed, so what more could a boy ask? ...more This is the kind of book that I'm not that sure of whether I liked it or not. I wasn't sure whether I should give it two stars (it was ok) or three (liked it). Maybe that's because I've never really read such kind of book. Well, what is it about? The main character is Richard, and when he feels a huge pain in his chest, he calls the doctor and the ambulance comes to get him. The rest of the book is about his visits to doctors, his meeting with people (like, an actor who lives across the street, This is the kind of book that I'm not that sure of whether I liked it or not. I wasn't sure whether I should give it two stars (it was ok) or three (liked it). Maybe that's because I've never really read such kind of book. Well, what is it about? The main character is Richard, and when he feels a huge pain in his chest, he calls the doctor and the ambulance comes to get him. The rest of the book is about his visits to doctors, his meeting with people (like, an actor who lives across the street, a guy of a donut shop, a neigbor, ...), strange stories (his experience on a meditation week, savind a horse, ...), his thoughts about how he left the woman he loved and exploration of starting a new relationship, and his reunion with his son. The end is pretty absurd. I'm not sure what to do with it. I'm not sure whether it's meant to be a good or a bad ending. But there's something about it that I liked. It's probably the best end for this book, it's just so suitable. I think that this is the kind of book that I might learn to appreciate more, when I'll think about it more often and maybe read again once. We'll see. ...more I read this in a couple of sittings, but I'm on some kind of mad reading binge right now, about a book a day, so that may not mean much. I liked it and it kept my interest for a good while, but only because I could almost never imagine what was coming next, certainly not because what came next was in any way organic or a necessary outcome of anything previous. The book seemed to become more frenetic and random as it neared the end, and I got a little impatient with it--I had realized by then tha I read this in a couple of sittings, but I'm on some kind of mad reading binge right now, about a book a day, so that may not mean much. I liked it and it kept my interest for a good while, but only because I could almost never imagine what was coming next, certainly not because what came next was in any way organic or a necessary outcome of anything previous. The book seemed to become more frenetic and random as it neared the end, and I got a little impatient with it--I had realized by then that nothing was going to be wrapped up, we'd just keep lurching from event to event--by the time we came to the SOS from the car trunk, I was pretty much done. If you have any ideas about the ending and what was going on there, I'd love to hear from you. I am so over the ambiguous ending, especially in a book that's not really good enough on its own for me to care. But I do want to know what happened to the dog. I think A.M. Homes is laughing at me for hoping that this book might have been more than it was. And what was up with the saber-tooth cat? I mean, really. . . ...more This is probably one of my favorite books that I've ever read. It's one that I am glad to own a physical copy of. While this is the only book I've read of A.M. Homes, I can tell that she really understands people. Her observations and descriptions and even all of her characters and all the dialogue is just so perfect. Relatable. Eerily so. This is a book that I could see myself re-reading at various points in my life, most specifically when I am going through a rough patch or feel out of touch w This is probably one of my favorite books that I've ever read. It's one that I am glad to own a physical copy of. While this is the only book I've read of A.M. Homes, I can tell that she really understands people. Her observations and descriptions and even all of her characters and all the dialogue is just so perfect. Relatable. Eerily so. This is a book that I could see myself re-reading at various points in my life, most specifically when I am going through a rough patch or feel out of touch with myself or reality. It's hard to explain just how amazing this book is, or what it makes me feel, but it's just all around good. Richard's reality is so outrageous and that makes it all the more real. I guess the best way to describe this book is to say that it's one of the \"realest\" books I've ever read. Vague, I know. Just read it. Whenever you need to be reminded of the goodness of people, whenever you feel lost or hopeless, whenever you want to feel better, read it. \u2665 ...more The third book in a row I've read about an older man's late-in-life crisis and reawakening--all three men were also (very hopelessly) in love with their exes--so maybe I'm not being entirely fair to it with a three-star rating. Honestly, this is my kind of beach read: A bit camp and a bit chicken-soup-for-the-yuppie-soul. I'd happily give it to a friend who needs a quick read while coming down from, like, Ulysses or something, but I don't think it will, as the Stephen King blurb on the back hope The third book in a row I've read about an older man's late-in-life crisis and reawakening--all three men were also (very hopelessly) in love with their exes--so maybe I'm not being entirely fair to it with a three-star rating. Honestly, this is my kind of beach read: A bit camp and a bit chicken-soup-for-the-yuppie-soul. I'd happily give it to a friend who needs a quick read while coming down from, like, Ulysses or something, but I don't think it will, as the Stephen King blurb on the back hopes it might, actually save any lives. I suppose it's also nice to have a new book to join the pantheon of good L.A. satire ( Day of the Locust , Play It As It Lays , The Crying of Lot 49 , etc), which was getting a bit dated, because it's not like Steve Martin is doing the genre any favors. Oh, slam. I said it. ...more<---C>A.M. Homes</---C>", "Title": "This Book Will Save Your Life"},
