{"Comments": "A creative tale of hardship in a mysterious past. Marc and his village struggle to survive after an endless winter has fallen on the land. When times are particularly hard,<---M> Marc ventures near the Forbidden Vale</---M>, a murky wood that houses rumors of death. An accident forces Marc to become sensitive to the magic all around, drawing the attention of the powerful wizard that protects the village. Regardless of his intentions, Marc grows in strength, as a man...<---F>and a magician</---F>. The setting is Roman-esqu A creative tale of hardship in a mysterious past. Marc and his village struggle to survive after an endless winter has fallen on the land. When times are particularly hard, Marc ventures near the Forbidden Vale, a murky wood that houses rumors of death. An accident forces Marc to become sensitive to the magic all around, drawing the attention of the powerful wizard that protects the village. Regardless of his intentions, Marc grows in strength, as a man...and a magician. The setting is Roman-esque England, with hints of Robin Hood and a dash of Merlin and Chiron! It's a little slow to start, but I particularly enjoyed the relationship between Marc and the wizard Oren; the story seems to really hit its stride when the tutelage begins. Marc grows as a wizard, as a leader, and as a man, swearing to find his father's killer, and giving in to his feelings for his friend Valeria. It reminded me of a blend of The Once and Future King and The Clan of the Cave Bear . If you enjoy high fantasy in a classical setting, you may enjoy this fantastical survival tale. ...more Wow. The author said it was different than most stories like it and it was, yet it was also, I don't know how to say it but to use the work \"comfortable\". Like other reviewers said, the characters are real to me. Marc and Valeria are like friends to me now. I enjoyed <+++>Haunted Tree</+++> very much and can't wait for the next book. I do have to admit I rated it 5 stars when only halfway through reading it, but that tells how much I was liking it by then. Now that I'm done, I stand by my rating. Also, I wa Wow. The author said it was different than most stories like it and it was, yet it was also, I don't know how to say it but to use the work \"comfortable\". Like other reviewers said, the characters are real to me. Marc and Valeria are like friends to me now. I enjoyed <+++>Haunted Tree</+++> very much and can't wait for the next book. I do have to admit I rated it 5 stars when only halfway through reading it, but that tells how much I was liking it by then. Now that I'm done, I stand by my rating. Also, I was given a free copy upon the understanding I would give an honest review of the book. I guess I got lucky. The first book I chose to review was great! ...more The setting is medieval Britain, but that's the extent of any historical content. Marc, the main character, is blessed with magic, and apprentices to the local wizard. There is a romance obvious from the beginning to everyone except Marc. Several characters are developed in good detail, and several grow significantly in the course of the plot. The magic system is not well defined, but is apparently an collection of paranormal powers granted by God. Christianity is assumed throughout, but will no The setting is medieval Britain, but that's the extent of any historical content. Marc, the main character, is blessed with magic, and apprentices to the local wizard. There is a romance obvious from the beginning to everyone except Marc. Several characters are developed in good detail, and several grow significantly in the course of the plot. The magic system is not well defined, but is apparently an collection of paranormal powers granted by God. Christianity is assumed throughout, but will no discussion of doctrine. Magic comes pretty easily to Marc and his girlfriend, with none of the traditional blockages of the fantasy genre. I didn't care for the way the final battle dragged out. The author had to counter Marc's overwhelming power by giving him psychological barriers to finishing off the bad guys. But it all worked out in the end. There was no cliff-hanger, but there is obvious room for sequels, which I will read when they are published. ...more Several weeks ago a friend of mine loaned me her copy of Haunted Tree (<---B>on her Kindle</---B>), telling me I'd like it. I usually don't care for historical fantasy, preferring modern fantasy, or I guess it's called Urban Fantasy. Anyway, I initially started reading it to make her happy and was quickly surprised to learn she was right. Turns out I really like it. Most of the \"historic\" fantasy I've read (or tried to!) is loaded down with political scheming, power plays and such and when there is too much Several weeks ago a friend of mine loaned me her copy of Haunted Tree (on her Kindle), telling me I'd like it. I usually don't care for historical fantasy, preferring modern fantasy, or I guess it's called Urban Fantasy. Anyway, I initially started reading it to make her happy and was quickly surprised to learn she was right. Turns out I really like it. Most of the \"historic\" fantasy I've read (or tried to!) is loaded down with political scheming, power plays and such and when there is too much of that, I lose interest. Haunted Tree has little of that, presenting a clear and clean story. I'm buying a print copy of the book as soon as it's available. ...more A Christian Blockbuster; Haunted Tree It's a brave soul who ventures into the realm of fantasy, magic and faith. <---A>Scott</---A> Scheller has walked the fine blade of remaining true to Biblical principals while being true to the wealth of magic in post Roman Brititania. A coming of age tale with great amounts of conflict, courage and love the lives of Marc, Valeria and Oren the Wise struggle against the forces of darkness. Be warned its a page turner that will be hard to put down once you have opened it up A Christian Blockbuster; Haunted Tree It's a brave soul who ventures into the realm of fantasy, magic and faith. Scott Scheller has walked the fine blade of remaining true to Biblical principals while being true to the wealth of magic in post Roman Brititania. A coming of age tale with great amounts of conflict, courage and love the lives of Marc, Valeria and Oren the Wise struggle against the forces of darkness. Be warned its a page turner that will be hard to put down once you have opened it up! ...more Very Entertaining Read, More Please I feel honored to be able to be at the beginning of what is no doubt going to be an exciting ride. What Scott has provided in the Haunted Tree is a rich vibrant world of the Magus family. Rich in character development, exciting action, and a very pleasant view of \"magic\". Can't wait for Book 2! This is an intriguing coming of age book that readers of Harry Potter and The Hunger Games will thoroughly enjoy. The book held my interest as I wanted to see what would happen to Marc and Valeria as their world changed and their relationship evolved. This was a very creative and imaginative story. I loved the way the characters where developed in this story. I don't want to give too much away, but by the title you can already see that a haunted tree plays an important part. Wizards and magic about in this story, which combines alternate history and fantasy adventure. A great read to escape into. A really good book with a long time line not unlike the lord of the rings the story is set in 19teent century round about 1850 ***** five star rating from me a really good book about the secrets of wizardry are passed through one family member to another Great! Can't wait for more! Adventure begins to unfold for young Marc when he first finds the haunted tree. Its power both draws him and frightens him. He learns that he, too, has powers of his own. Recovering from the Ice Age, Britannia emerges to reconstruct and survive. Food is sparse and rival tribes many. An evil king plots to take over and Marc will cross the path of the king\u2019s lackeys all too soon. The Wizard Oren brings Marc and his friend Valeria into the world of magic teaching them skills and secrets. While Marc Adventure begins to unfold for young Marc when he first finds the haunted tree. Its power both draws him and frightens him. He learns that he, too, has powers of his own. Recovering from the Ice Age, Britannia emerges to reconstruct and survive. Food is sparse and rival tribes many. An evil king plots to take over and Marc will cross the path of the king\u2019s lackeys all too soon. The Wizard Oren brings Marc and his friend Valeria into the world of magic teaching them skills and secrets. While Marc discovers his path in life, he and Valeria realize there\u2019s a different kind of magic growing between them, but first there\u2019s a kingdom to defend and Marc may not survive the battle. It is obvious Mr. Scheller has taken years to hone his craft. Haunted Tree is heart stopping and a resounding page turner, yet there\u2019s a well thought out plot and underlying meaning to the story. The characters are carefully developed and the descriptive prose holds the reader\u2019s attention far beyond the last page. Well done. ...more Intriguing story of magic, love and friendship It may seem I took a while to read the book. It did not. My children read it as well. This is definitely a story for ALL ages! The story has meaning, and magic is seen as a gift from God. Well explained in religious terms. Loved the characters. I could feel their emotions, and the magic....! It was like a movie in my head o(*^\u25bd^*)o The story is full of excitement, and you find yourself drawn into a beautiful world of fantasy. Mark and Valeria's frie Intriguing story of magic, love and friendship It may seem I took a while to read the book. It did not. My children read it as well. This is definitely a story for ALL ages! The story has meaning, and magic is seen as a gift from God. Well explained in religious terms. Loved the characters. I could feel their emotions, and the magic....! It was like a movie in my head o(*^\u25bd^*)o The story is full of excitement, and you find yourself drawn into a beautiful world of fantasy. Mark and Valeria's friendship slowly developed into a beautiful romance. With the conflicts in the kingdom and new king, the novel keeps you on the edge. Well written!! Left us expecting more after last page. Both my children loved the magic mystery, the action and adventure in the book. I loved the beautiful romance that developed between main characters and the suspense and mystery of the powers held by the tree and Mark. Definitely a book to keep in your library, and one you'd never get tired of. I had figured out how to borrow from Amazon Prime. Had to purchase it. A must read book!! ...more Haunted Tree was definitely a different type of read. I won't give away any spoilers, read it for yourself! As I came across a wonderful opportunity to read this great book and write a review for it, I took the chance. Luckily for me, I had a friend who already read the book and let me borrow it. First of all, this book is wonderfully written for all age of readers where you can feel the emotions and magic. As I always picture what is going on in the books I read, I was able to see a beautiful v Haunted Tree was definitely a different type of read. I won't give away any spoilers, read it for yourself! As I came across a wonderful opportunity to read this great book and write a review for it, I took the chance. Luckily for me, I had a friend who already read the book and let me borrow it. First of all, this book is wonderfully written for all age of readers where you can feel the emotions and magic. As I always picture what is going on in the books I read, I was able to see a beautiful visual of this story. As a person who is not religious, I do not tend to read many books inquired with religion. This book has a lot of religion in it but it did not bother me too much. I am very excited to read the next second book and other books from this author. ...more This book is difficult to get into, but once you get into it, you'll be glad you did. It is a book full of cliffhangers and excitement. The two main characters grow as the story unfolds. The reader will be told The Secret of Magic later in the book. The author explains magic in Christian terms. He also gives magic limitations. The magic is quite well defined and the adventures they have with it are awesome. (view spoiler) [I like the fact that the ending is not neatly tied together and there is s This book is difficult to get into, but once you get into it, you'll be glad you did. It is a book full of cliffhangers and excitement. The two main characters grow as the story unfolds. The reader will be told The Secret of Magic later in the book. The author explains magic in Christian terms. He also gives magic limitations. The magic is quite well defined and the adventures they have with it are awesome. (view spoiler) [I like the fact that the ending is not neatly tied together and there is still possibility of a threat. (hide spoiler) ] ...more One of the better books i have read in recent times, The story surprised me and offered up more then i thought it would. Will definitely be chomping at the bit in anticipation for the rest of the series to come out. Only thing that makes me unhappy is the Author doesn't have more books to read! Highly recommend everyone take a look at this book. Briefly: Plot is good but executed ok-ish; a nice tale but heavily christian , sounded like catechism. Characters are so and so, especially the main female who felt like a romantic tool for Marc. Now the long version. The language is good, evocative but not pompous, fluid and well-honed. Good job to the author. The action scenes are brief and reasonable, mostly, and the tension is good. The pacing could be improved, tension goes down too often for too long. What really put me off is the Christian t Briefly: Plot is good but executed ok-ish; a nice tale but heavily christian , sounded like catechism. Characters are so and so, especially the main female who felt like a romantic tool for Marc. Now the long version. The language is good, evocative but not pompous, fluid and well-honed. Good job to the author. The action scenes are brief and reasonable, mostly, and the tension is good. The pacing could be improved, tension goes down too often for too long. What really put me off is the Christian theme so explicit. When characters continuously say \"God bless you\", \"God bless me\", \"Thank God for that\", while living in a kind of apocalyptic context, that seems absolutely unrealistic to me. That's when the worst gets out of people, and they might plead forgiveness to God or Gods but with fear, resentment, desperation: not with overflowing gratefulness. Those kind of expressions are put as common sayings, yes, but are also present in the introspective bits of all main characters. It sounds to me like the author's belief system got too involved in the tale, at the expense of internal coherence. There is also another thing that needs work: character development. Marc is too scared/afraid of magic, unreasonably so since he greatly respects the wizard Oren. Now, either he shouldn't be so afraid, or he should not respect Oren so much. There needs to be a reconciliation between these two, but I didn't see it. Yes, later this changes under Oren's tutelage, but I find the \"premise\" unrealistic. Valeria is a bit stereotyped, and she kind of acts like Marc's support only. She dearly loves him, she helps him out, she quench his fears. She's a mother-wife before being even romantically involved with him. I prefer strong, well characterised women in my fiction. To conclude, I think the author has potential and the next novels will probably be stronger. However, I doubt I'll be buying the sequel of this. Not my cup of tea. ...more Read for #SPFBO<---C>Scott Robert Scheller</---C>", "Title": "Haunted Tree"},
