{"Comments": "O.M.G.! What a funny and sexy contemporary romance! It was over-the-top silly, but it made me laugh so many times! And best yet, the steamy parts were HOT. Jason is Haley\u2019s next door neighbor from HELL, but in truth he really is a fun and misunderstood kind of guy. Sure, the neighborhood started a few many petitions trying to get him to stop doing this or that, but he means well. And his shy little neighbor has never once complained. However, Jason is pretty clueless when it comes to things lik O.M.G.! What a funny and sexy contemporary romance! It was over-the-top silly, but it made me laugh so many times! And best yet, the steamy parts were HOT. Jason is Haley\u2019s next door neighbor from HELL, but in truth he really is a fun and misunderstood kind of guy. Sure, the neighborhood started a few many petitions trying to get him to stop doing this or that, but he means well. And his shy little neighbor has never once complained. However, Jason is pretty clueless when it comes to things like women. Lucky for him, Haley is a great teacher. Zachary Knighton as Jason: Shy school teacher Haley can\u2019t believe she finally stood up for herself against the jerk neighbor, but it felt good. Really good! After 5-years she breaks her silence and charges full force to tell him to quit picking her tulips! And it turns out her neighbor isn't half bad at all. Zooey Deschanel as Haley: Jason soon discovers Haley and him have many things in common. She loves the Yankees,<---M> video games</---M>, carnivals, and best yet - the woman can bake! Good for Jason, cause he can eat, and eat, and eat. But soon the friendship deepens, and do they get HOT! [image error] I loved this little story. It was funny, hot and just what I was in the mood for. While Jason was a bit full of himself, I found myself really enjoying his character. Haley was a perfect fit for a guy like him, and it was fun watching her deal with her shyness. My only complaint is that I felt the laughs faded too much toward the end as Jason and Haley had to work through their drama before they could find their own HEA. Still, I really enjoyed it and I'll be reading more of this series. Thanks to all my Goodreads friends who recommended this, otherwise I probably would never have found it on my own. ...more 5 stars It's been a long time since I've loved a book this much, so I'm spreading the word! You know how they say \"Don't judge a book by its cover\"? Well, let's be honest:We all do. A pretty cover will get me to buy a book faster than a tempting blurb. I know, I know-it could be just me and my shallowness or I'm a plain old book cover snob, but it's a fact of life. Now, if this book wasn't recommended to me I never would've picked it up. So, to all my GR friends who share my book cover predicament 5 stars It's been a long time since I've loved a book this much, so I'm spreading the word! You know how they say \"Don't judge a book by its cover\"? Well, let's be honest:We all do. A pretty cover will get me to buy a book faster than a tempting blurb. I know, I know-it could be just me and my shallowness or I'm a plain old book cover snob, but it's a fact of life. Now, if this book wasn't recommended to me I never would've picked it up. So, to all my GR friends who share my book cover predicament, make an exception in this case 'cause this book rocks! What to say, what to say about this one...Well, firstly this book is funny as hell. It kind of reminds me of Shelly Laurenston 's books, only without the shifter part. You should be warned, if you don't know what that indicates, it means Jason is often childish, petulant, goofball charming, headstrong and OBSESSED WITH FOOD AND HALEY.<---F> He's simply adorable</---F>... And he's a teacher, too. So is Haley, to think of it. \u201cHow dare you touch my cookies, you bastard!\u201d Jason said in utter disgust before popping the cookie into his mouth and heading back to his house. \u201cDamn those looked good, too,\u201d Brad grumbled. Haley sighed. \u201cDon\u2019t worry I have a second plate on my counter.\u201d The words were barely out of her mouth when Jason abruptly changed course and headed towards her house. \u201cWell, there was,\u201d she said, watching Jason walk into her house like he owned it. A minute later he walked out of her house, carrying both plates and the gallon of milk she had in her fridge. He headed back to his house, but not before he glared at Brad. \u201cYou cookie thieving bastard,\u201d they heard him mutter. Brad rolled his eyes, chuckling. \u201cAnd people wonder how I lost weight rooming with him in college.\u201d \"Jason rolled his eyes as he jumped to his feet. \u201cI think calling any of them my girlfriends is a bit of an exaggeration. I rather you stick with referring to them as \u2018the women who agreed to having a good time with no strings attached who got really pissed off at me when I got bored and left them for someone hotter.\u2019\u201d \u201cWow, that\u2019s a mouthful,\u201d Brad murmured. \u201cAnd surprising none of them has killed you yet.\" \"I hate you,\" Haley mumbled, storming past him to grab a carriage. \"You love and adore me,\" Jason informed her as he deftly snagged her carriage away from her and headed towards the men's department.\" I can't remember the last time I've laughed this much while reading a book. There are a lot of ridiculous situations, but...It's great. I like Haley, too. I think she deals with the Hurricane That Is Jason admirably well. By that I mean she knows the way through his heart is through his stomach and that sometimes men are best ignored. She's a bit mousy, used to derision and snubs from her family, so being with a hot guy like Jason, wasn't something she thought would happen, but they came by it honestly. From enemies to buddies to a couple. YAY!!!!!! I loved these scenes... \"Soon he was picturing little girls with mischievous green eyes and pigtails asking him to play tea. Of course he'd bring real food to the tea party. None of that pretend food bullshit for his little girls. By the time Haley had stopped for breakfast he'd been calmer about everything. He'd already decided to ignore that breakup nonsense. It was just ridiculous and he knew sooner or later Haley would realize that so they could get started on making their all girl baseball team.\" \"This is kidnapping!\" she sputtered in disbelief. \"No, it's not.\" \"Yes, it is!\" \"Nope.\" \"What the hell would you call it?\" she demanded, snatching his soda from him and finishing it off. \"A romantic getaway?\" Now, I'll lay off the quotes, since I've been obsessively marking them in the book, lol. The only thing that bothered me a bit was his family's reaction to their dating. The You Don't Deserve Her was a bit too much. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!!!!!!!!! ...more Caution:You will laugh out loud! I mean it! I hate reading funny books but this one was a random pick which turned out to be sooo good! Enter,Jason He is 31 and definitely the biggest jackass on earth,or at least he seems to be.He is every householders' nightmare.We can see what a prick he is from Haley's eyes. How would you feel if your idiot neighbor destroyed your bed flower? I dont know about you but I would have KILLED HIM! Well in our story his action brings them closer which is good since t Caution:You will laugh out loud! I mean it! I hate reading funny books but this one was a random pick which turned out to be sooo good! Enter,Jason He is 31 and definitely the biggest jackass on earth,or at least he seems to be.He is every householders' nightmare.We can see what a prick he is from Haley's eyes. How would you feel if your idiot neighbor destroyed your bed flower? I dont know about you but I would have KILLED HIM! Well in our story his action brings them closer which is good since their hate turns into friendship and then into something more.With him she comes out of her shell and she feels comfartable with a 'friend'.Surprisingly she changes him too!We can see that he acts more like his age and he is so adorable.However,he is still a baked goods-whore . I mean it!I've never read about someone who is so obsessed with food and especially with baked goods. His food addiction is beyond hilarious.Our cookie whore would kill anyone,including his own dad,if he touched his food. \u201cHey, those look good! Can I have one?\u201d a man she\u2019d seen hundreds of times around Jason\u2019s house asked, reaching out to take one. \u201cBack the fuck off! She brought them for me, you bastard!\u201d Jason snapped.\u201d The only reason I'm rating this with for stars is because during about 20% I felt like I was watching a tennis match. You love me. No I dont. I hate you. No you dont. Blah blah blah blah..... I started getting tired because they indeed loved each other and the WORST? That part wasnt funny!It reminded me of a usual contemporary book ! Overall,this is a light read which will make you laugh a lot.Jason is a big baby who you will adore for sure.Haley is awesome so if we overlook that irritating 20% the story deserves more than 5 stars.It is a hilarious book and exactly what I needed after Forbidden \u201cHow dare you touch my cookies, you bastard!\u201d Jason said in utter disgust before popping the cookie into his mouth and heading back to his house. \u201cDamn those looked good, too,\u201d Brad grumbled. Haley sighed. \u201cDon\u2019t worry I have a second plate on my counter.\u201d The words were barely out of her mouth when Jason abruptly changed course and headed towards her house. \u201cWell, there was,\u201d she said, watching Jason walk into her house like he owned it. A minute later he walked out of her house, carrying both plates and the gallon of milk she had in her fridge. He headed back to his house, but not before he glared at Brad. \u201cYou cookie thieving bastard,\u201d they heard him mutter. Brad rolled his eyes, chuckling. \u201cAnd people wonder how I lost weight rooming with him in college.\u201d Ps This is not a paranormal book. ...more Unfortunately, I only got to page 39 of this book before I gave up on it. The blurb implies it's a enemies-to-lovers trope, but the hero and heroine are only enemies for (literally) the first pages of the book. Very soon they're instant best friends--which we are TOLD, not shown--so the book is really a friends-to-lovers trope. The friends-to-lovers trope wouldn't have put me off, but adding to the book's woes, it was poorly edited. (I have since read that the author is having her books edited AF Unfortunately, I only got to page 39 of this book before I gave up on it. The blurb implies it's a enemies-to-lovers trope, but the hero and heroine are only enemies for (literally) the first pages of the book. Very soon they're instant best friends--which we are TOLD, not shown--so the book is really a friends-to-lovers trope. The friends-to-lovers trope wouldn't have put me off, but adding to the book's woes, it was poorly edited. (I have since read that the author is having her books edited AFTER their release). Again, these two things would not necessarily have been deal breakers for me. Unfortunately, the hero (Jason) was. Jason takes an entire plate of cookies and refuses to share them with anybody. When he learns there is a second plate of cookies in the heroine's house, he enters her house and takes those too, as well as her milk. Without asking. I think this behaviour was intended to be a humorous quirk to Jason's character, but I saw only pettiness and immaturity. Not someone I would want to know, and certainly not the attributes of a hero I have to admire for the romance to work. ...more Sometimes when I read other people's reviews, I think \"Did we read the same book?\" Anyways, the good- this book is very well written, esp by the standards of self pubs. It flows well and is very engaging. I had fun while I was reading it and kept turning the pages. It really lost me in the last third though. The bad- this book is about two idiot adult children who take immaturity to a new level. Hayley starts dating her neighbor Jason when they are trapped inside her house by a swarm of killer bee Sometimes when I read other people's reviews, I think \"Did we read the same book?\" Anyways, the good- this book is very well written, esp by the standards of self pubs. It flows well and is very engaging. I had fun while I was reading it and kept turning the pages. It really lost me in the last third though. The bad- this book is about two idiot adult children who take immaturity to a new level. Hayley starts dating her neighbor Jason when they are trapped inside her house by a swarm of killer bees. They hit it off and start hanging out as \"just friends\" for several months, a relationship that soon includes tons of platonic sleeping. Before long, they can't sleep alone. Jason wants to fuck Hayley, but he is sure that she would never want to be with a man like him. If there are any men reading this, here is a hint- if a woman lets you sleep in her bed every night for three months, then she is probably also willing to fuck you. I'm just saying. However, the real reason that Haley hasn't sealed the deal is because she is a virgin and saving herself for the man she loves. However, even though she isn't sure she loves Jason, she sure likes him a lot, so they begin an epic months long spree of oral sex that lasts like 200 pages. Luckily for Hayley, Jason enjoys eating pussy more than a JR Ward vampire crossed with Lil Wayne crossed with Cookie Monster. There is trouble in paradise though, when one of her asshole friends tricks Jason into doing the horizontal polka before Hayley is ready. Haley is hurt and tries to dump Jason but he just won't take no for an answer. In his defense, I don't think that I would assume that a 30 year old woman would be a virgin either. Through the power of forgivness and buttercream frosting, they get over it. Anyways, what kills me about this story is that there should have been no story. Two unattached, normal consenting adults shouldn't have had this much trouble. Just not enough conflict outside the characters unexplained immaturity. Jason especially was hard for me to figure out. However, this book does contain several things that seem to be trends in new romance novels, including platonic sleeping, animal nicknames and an extremely long epilogue. All of these things piss me off, especially the platonic sleeping. If you like it though, good for you. I would rather read about real adults. ...more 5 LMAO Stars This is such a fun read! I told my friend I needed something light and she recommended this one, and it is perfect. The story is about two neighbors who through little misunderstandings and some bad actions despise each other. Of course, once they are forced together one day and able to communicate things are cleared up. They immediately see they are perfect for each other and become best friends. Naturally their attraction for each other gets in the way and things escalate. I liked 5 LMAO Stars This is such a fun read! I told my friend I needed something light and she recommended this one, and it is perfect. The story is about two neighbors who through little misunderstandings and some bad actions despise each other. Of course, once they are forced together one day and able to communicate things are cleared up. They immediately see they are perfect for each other and become best friends. Naturally their attraction for each other gets in the way and things escalate. I liked how things didn't get too dramatic or angsty. Yes, this one was predictable, but I love Jason and Haley's little moments together. They fit together perfectly. This story is such a quick read, it will have you laughing out loud, and has some swoon worthy moments. I also loved my sexy scenes with Jason. I recommend this one for when you are looking for something light and fun. ...more This book was amazing and after a lot of after-thought I finally decided to go for a 5 star as the rating ;) 'Playing for keeps' is a novel that provides a perfect example of how important it is to NEVER judge a book by its cover..and I'm glad I chose not to with this one.The stellar reviews this book received from book besties,left me curious enough to pick this one out.So an applause for their fabulous review :D And now I'm just another reviewer hoping that I recommend this book good enough.. This book was amazing and after a lot of after-thought I finally decided to go for a 5 star as the rating ;) 'Playing for keeps' is a novel that provides a perfect example of how important it is to NEVER judge a book by its cover..and I'm glad I chose not to with this one.The stellar reviews this book received from book besties,left me curious enough to pick this one out.So an applause for their fabulous review :D And now I'm just another reviewer hoping that I recommend this book good enough...so that I may at least just another 2 or 3 to pick it out as well !!! Haley and Jason ?! i just loved these too ! Together they're just so damn cute ! He glared accusingly at her while he made short work of his clothes. \"You didn't wake me up.\" She rolled her eyes as she speared a piece of sausage with her fork. \"I did wake you up. Three times in fact. Each time you threw something at me and went back to sleep.\" Jason gaped at her. \"And you gave up? You know our routine, woman. You have to keep at it until I'm forced to get off the bed to find something to throw at you.\u201d Seriously I would kill to have a guy like Jason move in with me...LOL these two are just freakin hilarious. RECOMMENDATION: Seriously guys...WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU WAITING FOR ?!!!!! Go ! Go ! Go ! And read ;) ...more Rating: 3,5 stars \"His buddy might not know it yet, but he met his match in that little lady. If any woman could bring Jason to his knees it was that woman.\" <+++>Playing for Keeps</+++> was definitely a hilarious read! I was chuckling to myself within a few minutes and was laughing out loud more than once. A warning if you pick it up in public: it will most likely earn you awkward stares! While it was kinda silly sometimes, I admit I loved it! It was so cute and fun that I just couldn't help but adore thes Rating: 3,5 stars \"His buddy might not know it yet, but he met his match in that little lady. If any woman could bring Jason to his knees it was that woman.\" <+++>Playing for Keeps</+++> was definitely a hilarious read! I was chuckling to myself within a few minutes and was laughing out loud more than once. A warning if you pick it up in public: it will most likely earn you awkward stares! While it was kinda silly sometimes, I admit I loved it! It was so cute and fun that I just couldn't help but adore these two together. Jason was hilarious with his friends and food, and some things Haley did to Jason... LOL. I'm still laughing when thinking about some scenes! I loved Haley, I loved Jason. I loved her grandmother, I loved his family and friends... '\"Brad, do you think you could give me a hand? I could really use a man's help for a few minutes.\" His jaw dropped. He could hear Brad trying to stifle his laughter. \"If you need a man, I'm right here!\" he snapped.' What ruined it a bit for me was the fight in the end. The conflict actually had me sighing and rolling my eyes in annoyance there for some time. It just felt kinda silly in the end I guess; they both messed up and refused to listen to each other. But I have to say that the ending did make up for it! I loved the epilogue! Overall though it was a great read I thoroughly enjoyed! If you're in the mood for something light that will make you laugh, I think this is the perfect read. '\"You are the best, ever. Untie me so I can dig in,\" he said absently as he continued to stare at the cake, probably trying to decide which end he was going to attack first. \"You can't get free?\" \"Nope.\" \"You did this yourself?\" \"Yup. Now cake, woman.\" \"Uh huh...\" She stepped away from the bed and headed for the bathroom. \"Wait, where are you going?\" \"I'm just getting something to untie you with.\" \"Hurry.\" \"Sure thing,\" she said, glad he couldn't see her shit eating grin.' ...more FREE on Amazon US today (6/4/2015) Stand-alone book 1. BLURB: Done with being the world's biggest pushover, Haley decides that things are going to change starting with the aggravating neighbor who has too much charm and not enough restraint. What she didn't expect was to be sucked into his world, but Haley has a game plan and she won't let herself forget just what the bad boy next door is capable of. The last thing Jason expected was for his little shy neighbor to go Rambo on him over some ruined FREE on Amazon US today (6/4/2015) Stand-alone book 1. BLURB: Done with being the world's biggest pushover, Haley decides that things are going to change starting with the aggravating neighbor who has too much charm and not enough restraint. What she didn't expect was to be sucked into his world, but Haley has a game plan and she won't let herself forget just what the bad boy next door is capable of. The last thing Jason expected was for his little shy neighbor to go Rambo on him over some ruined flowers. After he decides to take her under his wing he can't help but notice that she fits very nicely in his life. Now the only thing left is to convince her that this is anything but a game. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004... FREEBIES are often good for MORE than one day, I have gathered all my FREEBIES on a special shelf: Kindle-freebies (currently over 430 books) https://www.goodreads.com/review/list... ...more What a lovely surprise this book turned out to be! I had no idea what to expect when I decided to give this book a whirl. I\u2019m glad I took the chance. This novel has everything I look for in a contemporary romance. It was charming, sweet, sexy, romantic\u2026, I can go on and on. However, this book was also just plain ole HILARIOUS !!!! I was cracking up at the over-the-top shenanigans of Haley and Jason from start to finish! Let me rephrase that, I was literally laughing very loudly throughout most of What a lovely surprise this book turned out to be! I had no idea what to expect when I decided to give this book a whirl. I\u2019m glad I took the chance. This novel has everything I look for in a contemporary romance. It was charming, sweet, sexy, romantic\u2026, I can go on and on. However, this book was also just plain ole HILARIOUS !!!! I was cracking up at the over-the-top shenanigans of Haley and Jason from start to finish! Let me rephrase that, I was literally laughing very loudly throughout most of the book . Seriously peeps, it was that funny! I love the quirky characters that R. L. Mathewson creates in this book. Jason is not the only nut job with his sensational obsession with food (not to mention Haley), but Haley is equally a gong show with her theatrics by trying to beat up men that are bigger than her. You cannot help but love them and laugh at them. I love how Mathewson does not lead up to the \u201ccrazy\u201d, these two are a bottle of cuckoo right from the get go. Did I mention that this book is hilarious!!!! ;) The \u201cdrama\u201d towards the end did get to be a little much, hence the 4 star rating instead of 5, but this was definitely a great and humorous read. This book is just pure FUN and I definitely recommend it. I\u2019m looking forward to reading more books written by R. L. Mathewson. ...more 4 \u2018I giggled, I snickered, and fanned myself' stars!!! Playing for Keeps is the first book in <---A>R.L. Mathewson</---A>\u2019s Neighbor from Hell series and one hell of a funny story. Description\u2026 Done with being the world's biggest pushover, Haley decides that things are going to change starting with the aggravating neighbor who has too much charm and not enough restraint. What she didn't expect was to be sucked into his world, but Haley has a game plan and she won't let herself forget just what the bad boy ne 4 \u2018I giggled, I snickered, and fanned myself' stars!!! Playing for Keeps is the first book in R.L. Mathewson\u2019s Neighbor from Hell series and one hell of a funny story. Description\u2026 Done with being the world's biggest pushover, Haley decides that things are going to change starting with the aggravating neighbor who has too much charm and not enough restraint. What she didn't expect was to be sucked into his world, but Haley has a game plan and she won't let herself forget just what the bad boy next door is capable of. The last thing Jason expected was for his little shy neighbor to go Rambo on him over some ruined flowers. After he decides to take her under his wing he can't help but notice that she fits very nicely in his life. Now the only thing left is to convince her that this is anything but a game. My review... I picked this up back in the days of Fictionwise and their 60% off sales but never got around to reading it because I wasn\u2019t in the mood for a paranormal romance about demons living next door. **snort** Man, oh man! I wish I had paid closer attention to what the book was about because I\u2019ve been missing out on some seriously good times!! Like I said, for some reason I thought this was, literally, a story about demon neighbors. Don't bother asking why, because I haven't a clue, but yeah, I assumed this was a PNR. And although Jason is definitely a neighbor from hell, it\u2019s not the literal kind of hell. He\u2019s just a pain in the ass. The kind of neighbor who has you thinking of selling your home, or burning his down. Prison time starts looking good if it means ridding the world of him and his annoying, loud, friends. After realizing that this is not a PNR, I was anticipating a light, fun read and yeah, I got that, but there\u2019s something more about Playing for Keeps; a connection between myself and the characters I can't explain and wasn't expecting. At first I thought I\u2019d feel nothing more than \u2018meh\u2019 for Jason, but by the end of the book I adored him! He and his family are just hysterical and I laughed out loud more than a few times at their banter. And the sex scenes? Holy hell hot! The bottom line\u2026 This isn\u2019t a deep or compelling novel, but it\u2019s sexy, romantic, funny and thoroughly entertaining. Even as I sit here writing this review I\u2019m grinning from ear to ear as I recall some of Haley and Jason\u2019s antics, and those of Jason\u2019s goofy friends. I\u2019ve already downloaded book 2, Perfection and can\u2019t wait to dive in! ...more 3.5 stars. Rounding up because Jason is such a rock star. She quietly said good night, rolled her eyes as Jason mumbled, \"I love you\" to his brownies, and headed off to the bathroom. I picked up Playing for Keeps because it was getting some attention and I was curious to see why a seemingly unnoticeable book (have you seen the cover?) was starting to cause a stir. What I was expecting : Neighbors who don't get along spend half of a book torturing the living daylights out of each other before t 3.5 stars. Rounding up because Jason is such a rock star. She quietly said good night, rolled her eyes as Jason mumbled, \"I love you\" to his brownies, and headed off to the bathroom. I picked up Playing for Keeps because it was getting some attention and I was curious to see why a seemingly unnoticeable book (have you seen the cover?) was starting to cause a stir. What I was expecting : Neighbors who don't get along spend half of a book torturing the living daylights out of each other before they finally realize their attraction. What really happened : Neighbors torture each other for a very brief period of time, before the rest of the book has them exploring a friends-turned-lovers scenario. While I had hoped for a lot more \"neighbor from hell\" action, I was not disappointed with the turn of events. Granted, it would have been a riot to read an entire book of neighbors sabotaging each other (if you guys know of one, shoot me a rec, please)...but I can honestly say that this was a fun read, regardless of how it turned out! This book does prove that I am the queen of double standards. I have a statement on my profile saying that it's up the author to convince me to buy into something I wouldn't normally like about a book. I'm happy to report that this author had me buying everything hook, line and sinker. Drama : As much as I enjoy reading a good drama-fest, I usually find myself complaining that it's been done in such a manner which is way too over-the-top. PFK is an example of how to write drama into a book without taking it to a point where you want to strangle the characters. Nicknames : Again, this is another big turnoff for me. Outside of VA's endearing use of Roza and Dimka, I'm usually not a fan. I know that not everyone loved the use of \"Grasshopper\" in this book but I found it cute and personal. Maybe because of this : She glared over her shoulder at him. \"I'm not going to call you Mr. Miyagi you know.\" \"Yes you will, but that's not important at the moment.\" Epilogues : Rarely, are they necessary. In the case of PFK, I appreciated the followup. I enjoyed the book so much that I didn't even mind a few typos. In fact, one of them even added to my enjoyment. How could you not laugh at : Fists of Furry ? Love story aside, Jason is the real reason to read PFK. His love for food is probably even more entertaining than his love for Hayley. \"You never brought me to a buffet restaurant at home,\" she pointed out. Jason mumbled something. \"What?\" she asked. \"I said, I've been banned,\" he grumbled unhappily. \"It's all political,\" he sniffed. \"Uh huh...and your father?\" she asked. \"He's been banned since 1995,\" Jason said with a shrug. \"In two years the ban in Las Vegas will be lifted. We're planning a big trip,\" he said. \"You've been banned from Las Vegas?\" \"Not from Las Vegas, just from all the buffets.\" \"All the buffets?\" There had to be hundreds of buffets in Las Vegas. \"I guess they had a meeting or something. As I said before, it's all political.\" ...more I haven't read a book this funny in a while. It got to a point, where I'd just burst out laughing. Which led to strange looks from my family...priceless. Jason and Haley make an adorable couple and the bantering between these two are hilarious. Not to mention the secondary characters being Jason's friends are an added bonus. This is a real feel good, pick me up type of book, that'll have you laughing in no time. Loved it! Original review: Swept Away By Romance It has been a very long time since I laughed so hard and had so much fun with a book. Haley and Jason are neighbors and colleagues but they don\u2019t get along very well. Or at least it feels that way for Haley. Jason is loud, ignorant and quite selfish and Haley never complains. But one day it\u2019s simply enough and Haley decides to change her life and starts speaking up for herself. Surprisingly, she and Jason strike up a friendship. That friendship and Jason\u2019s i Original review: Swept Away By Romance It has been a very long time since I laughed so hard and had so much fun with a book. Haley and Jason are neighbors and colleagues but they don\u2019t get along very well. Or at least it feels that way for Haley. Jason is loud, ignorant and quite selfish and Haley never complains. But one day it\u2019s simply enough and Haley decides to change her life and starts speaking up for herself. Surprisingly, she and Jason strike up a friendship. That friendship and Jason\u2019s influence help Haley to free herself and be the strong woman that she always knew she was. All that sounds really serious and emotional but it is not. R.L. Mathewson tells this story with a wit and freshness that blew me away and made me an instant fan; and I mean FAN as in: I\u2019m on an R.L. Mathewson marathon right now, going from one book to the next. Jason is a very quirky, hot hero with a serious food obsession and I instantly fell in love with him, even though he might scare me to death in real life\u2026.I\u2019d probably think he\u2019s some psycho! In the book and with Haley it just works and they make a beautiful, if slightly weird, couple. The situations Haley and Jason find themselves in are not very believable but so well told that they are hilariously funny. At the same time, the author manages to include a romantic sweetness and sexiness that make the book sensual, funny and romantic at the same time. Playing for Keeps feels whole and complete, there is nothing I didn\u2019t like or wish for. It has a beautiful, heart-warming epilogue; it is a very funny book but serious when it needs to be and sexy at just the right moment. Please give this a try, it\u2019s definitely worth it!! Favorite Quotes: \u201cJason had to bury his face against her shoulder to keep from laughing out loud. She was just so damn cute. \u201cStop laughing at me! I\u2019m a threat, damn it!\u201d Jason pressed a gentle kiss to her lips. \u201cNo, you\u2019re my sweet little grasshopper.\u201d\u201d \u201cLook woman, I don\u2019t know what you did, but I haven\u2019t been able to sleep since we got back from New York. I\u2019m tired and bitchy and all I want is some sleep so cuddle your ass up with me or so help me I will kill you.\u201d ...more Gah! This book was so freaking amazing and then it had to fall into the CR-trap. Yes, I made it up right now. Beware, the second part of this review will contain mild spoilers. I will let you know when. The first part. So incredibly funny! I laughed so much on the train that the people around me thought I was crazy. It was brilliant! Haley. Sweet bookish heroine who is done with being a pushover. She was always the shy girl with her nose buried in a book, hoping no one would notice her. Who knew th Gah! This book was so freaking amazing and then it had to fall into the CR-trap. Yes, I made it up right now. Beware, the second part of this review will contain mild spoilers. I will let you know when. The first part. So incredibly funny! I laughed so much on the train that the people around me thought I was crazy. It was brilliant! Haley. Sweet bookish heroine who is done with being a pushover. She was always the shy girl with her nose buried in a book, hoping no one would notice her. Who knew there was a little tigress beneath all that cuteness. Jason. The neighbor from hell. He makes Haley his project and find a best friend. And they fall in love. It is a beautiful enemies-to-friends-to-lovers tale. Ebony hair, ocean blue eyes and chiseled good look. Swoon alert! And Jason loves food. This book will make you hungry. The good. Funny and sweet, and I loved hanging with them. The friendship is adorable, and even more so how oblivious they are to the fact that they've fallen in love. The bad. Haley is a virgin. She is waiting for the one. So obviously, this is a very tame CR by any standards. And the way this is used as a plot device didn't work for me. The ugly. Here it comes. The CR-trap. Gah! Everything is moving along nicely, you love the hero and the heroine and they are beginning to realize that they love each other. And boom! A silly misunderstanding. Jason was a complete jerk and acted out of character. Haley gets upset. I get it. She refuses to talk to him. He tries. He gives up. She tries. He refuses. Boom. In one page we get back to loving each other - and yes we now know after being apart for several weeks, yelling and fighting nasty that we are going to get married right away. Yes, that's how I wanted my proposal to go down. NOT! They have the most dysfunctional fight ever - but we are getting married now. Sorry for the rant. But why ruin something beautiful with a childish out-of-character fight? In the end. A beautiful epilogue that almost made it up to me. I would give the first part five shining stars, the last 25 percent one sad star and the epilogue four blooming stars again. If you can look past the CR-trap, then I really recommend it! ...more This book was absolutely hilarious! I was laughing the whole time...when I wasn't crying that is. Loved it. Get on it. Yay...found a new author to stalk;) Loved this book! \u201cIf she tried to leave without him he would burn her house down, plain and simple.\u201d Playing for Keeps is a light hearted modern romance with an abundance of satire and a great deal of tongue and cheek humor. For the past five years, Haley has been living next door to \u201cthe neighbor from Hell\u201d. Haley is a \"rule follower\u201d with an abundance of \u201cpolish\" and sophistication. Jason is a sporadic \u201cfree spirit\u201d. Needless to say, the two are quite opposite. Haley and Jason don\u2019t get along. Haley has worked d \u201cIf she tried to leave without him he would burn her house down, plain and simple.\u201d Playing for Keeps is a light hearted modern romance with an abundance of satire and a great deal of tongue and cheek humor. For the past five years, Haley has been living next door to \u201cthe neighbor from Hell\u201d. Haley is a \"rule follower\u201d with an abundance of \u201cpolish\" and sophistication. Jason is a sporadic \u201cfree spirit\u201d. Needless to say, the two are quite opposite. Haley and Jason don\u2019t get along. Haley has worked diligently to avoid Jason. He is constantly having loud parties and partaking in drunken shenanigans with his friends. Then one night, he is pulling up her tulips and she realizes she has had enough. She confronts him and this is when everything begins to transform. \u201cHey! Stop that!\u201d he demanded as he leaned over her to grab a hold of her hands. \u201cGet off me!\u201d she snapped, digging faster. \u201cI wouldn\u2019t be on you if you weren\u2019t on my damn property!\u201d In addition to neighbors, they are also teachers that teach at the same school. The combination of the proximity of the two and the fact that they both compliment each other so perfectly prompts Haley and Jason to become friends. You know the age old saying really does apply in most cases...opposites do indeed attract! Haley bakes for Jason. (And Jason loves to eat!) Jason begins to influence Haley as he helps her out of her shell. They begin to hang out, cuddle, and just become best friends. It doesn\u2019t take long for things to transform into more than friendship between the two. The two share a very comfortable and yet humorous romance. This is most definitely a friends to lovers story with a flair of \u201cwar of the roses\u201d. Written in dual POV we are able to peek into the minds of both of these main characters. The dialogue is truly hilarious and the steam was off the charts. Overall, I recommend Playing for Keeps for readers that enjoy a light romantic comedy. There were many tender moments and moments that made me laugh. Often, I did find Haley and Jason to be very immature. If you take on this read, just be prepared for a little eye rolling. However, if you are able to suspend reality for the sake of enjoyment then by all means dive right in. I will add that the epilogue was very tender and sweet. Overall, a truly enjoyable read. I listened to this book on audible.com! ...more I really liked this book a lot. It was the PERFECT fluff read for me. It was well written, with characters I really cared about, lots of adorably cute and funny moments, no heart-breaking moments, no damaged or tortured characters, didn't make me cry at any point, really really adorable HEAs, and not super long reads. I read this book and its sequel in 4 hours. It was the perfect way to spend a sunny afternoon. I love the way their relationship developed. It was perfectly paced. Fast enough that I really liked this book a lot. It was the PERFECT fluff read for me. It was well written, with characters I really cared about, lots of adorably cute and funny moments, no heart-breaking moments, no damaged or tortured characters, didn't make me cry at any point, really really adorable HEAs, and not super long reads. I read this book and its sequel in 4 hours. It was the perfect way to spend a sunny afternoon. I love the way their relationship developed. It was perfectly paced. Fast enough that I never felt that the story dragged, but not so fast that it felt rushed. Literally the entire point of the story is about two people who fall in love and how they get to their HEA. No complications, no external drama, no bad guy, just a love story. It was EXACTLY what I wanted. Looking forward to reading more by this author. I gotta say the grasshopper thing was ADORABLE!!!! Jason was an awesome hero and Hayley was a cute heroine (nice to read one that didnt annoy me) :) 4.5+ stars. ...more Everything was clich\u00e9: she has a rich family that doesn\u2019t appreciate her, the grandma is tough and she automatically approves of the \u2018boyfriend\u2019 even though she never has before, the son is the spitting image of the father, they have to wrestle in the mud to be close to each other upon meeting, he\u2019s instantly turned on by her to the point of being unbearable, she\u2019s amazing at foreplay even though she\u2019s never done anything before, THEIR BEDROOM WINDOWS ARE LITERALLY LESS THAN TWO FEET APART FROM Everything was clich\u00e9: she has a rich family that doesn\u2019t appreciate her, the grandma is tough and she automatically approves of the \u2018boyfriend\u2019 even though she never has before, the son is the spitting image of the father, they have to wrestle in the mud to be close to each other upon meeting, he\u2019s instantly turned on by her to the point of being unbearable, she\u2019s amazing at foreplay even though she\u2019s never done anything before, THEIR BEDROOM WINDOWS ARE LITERALLY LESS THAN TWO FEET APART FROM EACH OTHER \u2013 how convenient, she has a confrontation with an old ex of his, he gets jealous about an old ex of hers, all the men who are not taken are deemed perverted assholes, all the girls but Haley are bitchy. He\u2019s forced to use her shower, even though he lives next door, because they are trapped by bees \u2013 really? They surrounded the ENTIRE house? \u2013 and so he is forced to interact with each other where they discover they are not as bad as they thought they were and they go on to have the best friendship in the world. All so terrible. Haley was a total Mary-Sue. She\u2019s a 29 year old virgin who has had, by what the book implies, literally hundreds of men trying to ask her out in her lifetime. I doubt not one of those men was good enough for Haley, the perfect prize. She\u2019s apparently stunning, sexy, intelligent, sports-savvy, quirky, and humble. She\u2019s every perfect characteristic packaged into one beautiful, lovely woman. Her only fault isn\u2019t even about her, it\u2019s the fact that she has a rich snobby family that doesn\u2019t appreciate her. She\u2019s made to seem like she was dealt with a hard life but she prospered despite her neglected childhood. She even refuses to receive help from people just because she needs to do things on her own. I mean, I understand wanting to do things on your own, but to literally pitch a fit because someone lied about how much a cabin they\u2019re renting out for you cost? \u201cOh, no, she spent way over the $1000 limit I gave her! How dare she?\u201d I hate this idea that a girl will only have sex with her one true love and that the man-whore will only settle for the innocent girl. Men are wild you can\u2019t blame them for having sex with every model-like girl they meet and since girls are whores if they sleep with more than one guy then she needs to preserve her innocence in order to satisfy that one man. If you want to save yourself for marriage, fine by me whatever, but when they portray Haley as this completely innocent, good-natured girl and then couple that with her being a virgin, what does that really say? Jason is very immature, I find it hard to believe that he would ever be a good teacher, I\u2019m surprised he hasn\u2019t gotten fired. The food stuff was kind of entertaining in the beginning, but as soon as it was established that it was his thing it got annoying. He acts like a two year old yelling, \u201cMine!\u201d and nearly crying whenever anyone goes near his precious brownies. Seriously? Even more so with the innocence and Mary-Sue stuff, Haley apparently doesn\u2019t know that she\u2019s beautiful and she\u2019s unaware of all the attention she gets from guys. She\u2019s so innocent she doesn\u2019t even notice when men flirt with her. For a 29 year old, she seems pretty na\u00efve. Also, Jason claiming to be a playboy and asserting over and over again the fact that he doesn\u2019t let women sleep in his bed or cuddle with him? It was obvious they only put all that in there just to let Haley defy all of it and show that she was special ! They don\u2019t even really know each other and after claiming that she hated him for five years, they just go ahead and do it anyway! What kind of development is this? For people who were so adamant in their beliefs that they let them define them, they sure do break their own rules pretty quickly. I didn\u2019t understand the whole \u2018little grasshopper\u2019 stuff. I get that he thinks it\u2019s because he\u2019s teaching her stuff, but what did he really do? All he did was invite her to a party where she branched out on her own. He left her alone for most of the time and it was only when he decided subconsciously that he wanted to sleep with her that he made himself her \u2018coach\u2019. She decided on her own to become less shy and he didn\u2019t do anything regarding that. This idea that they\u2019re such special soul-mates and whatever that they can\u2019t even sleep if they\u2019re not together???? Are you kidding me?? She literally says she hasn\u2019t slept in five days because she needs Jason there with her. Can anyone, in real life, tell me if this has ever happened to you? I understand a day or two of having difficulty falling asleep because you\u2019re sad about them, but to go DAYS without sleep because of it is just ridiculous. Going along with that, can you imagine if you moved houses and changed your workplace every time you broke up with a guy who lives/works nearby? Ridiculous. The entire ending was pretty dumb. It was just a bunch of groveling, stubbornness, and playing cat and mouse. They just went back and forth with their feelings and it got very annoying very fast. 1/10 would not recommend. ...more I was very surprised when I realized how funny this book was. I had a huge smile on my face most of the time and I can't count the times I laughed out loud. It's not something that happens a lot with contemporary romance since the dark and angsty are in fashion so I'm very happy for this. The characters and the writing reminded me very much of one of my favorite authors Shelly Laurenston . At some point I was beginning to think that they are the same person. I visited the authors page and I wasn't I was very surprised when I realized how funny this book was. I had a huge smile on my face most of the time and I can't count the times I laughed out loud. It's not something that happens a lot with contemporary romance since the dark and angsty are in fashion so I'm very happy for this. The characters and the writing reminded me very much of one of my favorite authors Shelly Laurenston . At some point I was beginning to think that they are the same person. I visited the authors page and I wasn't too surprised to read this... Influences: G.A. Aiken G.A. Aiken is a pen name for SL. Anyway... It comes as little surprise to me that I loved the crazy behaviours and dialogs. The couple Jason was hilarious... I have no other word to describe him. He was arrogant, selfish(not with the heroine, with everyone else), stubborn and he had an addiction to food. He was like a tasmanian devil with the food and he didn't share. His family was equaly crazy and had the same appetite. I have a thing for crazy characters so I loved him. \u201cHow dare you touch my cookies, you bastard!\u201d Jason said in utter disgust before popping the cookie into his mouth and heading back to his house. \u201cDamn those looked good, too,\u201d Brad grumbled. Haley sighed. \u201cDon\u2019t worry I have a second plate on my counter.\u201d The words were barely out of her mouth when Jason abruptly changed course and headed towards her house. \u201cWell, there was,\u201d she said, watching Jason walk into her house like he owned it. A minute later he walked out of her house, carrying both plates and the gallon of milk she had in her fridge. He headed back to his house, but not before he glared at Brad. \u201cYou cookie thieving bastard,\u201d they heard him mutter. Brad rolled his eyes, chuckling. \u201cAnd people wonder how I lost weight rooming with him in college.\u201d Haley was an awkward girl. She was used to being the doormat and having people walk all over her. She was also insanely hot but she didn't realize it. I liked Haley. She was quiet and easy-going but once you got to know her you realized that she was smart and funny. She was also a genuinely nice person. Oh, and she loved her Yankees. I would have given this book a 5* rating but at some point it dragged a bit. Jason did a shitty thing, Haley got scared, they both behaved like idiots. I get that there has to be a story but it wasn't as nice as the rest of the book. I still loved it! \"For god sake, Jason, I dumped you!\" she snapped, feeling the last thread of patience snap. She looked up in the rearview mirror when he didn't say anything for a minute only to find his frowning. Finally he shook his head. \"No, I think I would have remembered that.\" ...more I enjoyed this book very much. I will give a full review later. Enjoy and Be Blessed. Diamond The ideal blend of romance, humor, angst, and spice! I loved everything about this book. Jason and Haley\u2019s first interaction, their friendship that becomes more, the falling out, the reconciling, and lordy lordy their time between the sheets was steamy and sensual. The writing is wonderful, plenty of witty dialogue, and it included a delightful array of amusing secondary characters. It\u2019s the perfect length; it was enough story that you\u2019re committed to the characters, yet the plot is not overwhel The ideal blend of romance, humor, angst, and spice! I loved everything about this book. Jason and Haley\u2019s first interaction, their friendship that becomes more, the falling out, the reconciling, and lordy lordy their time between the sheets was steamy and sensual. The writing is wonderful, plenty of witty dialogue, and it included a delightful array of amusing secondary characters. It\u2019s the perfect length; it was enough story that you\u2019re committed to the characters, yet the plot is not overwhelming. I felt very much at ease with Jason and Haley\u2019s relationship, it was comfortable and developed rather nicely. The time they spent together as buddies made me adore them even more. Jason\u2019s love affair with food had me rolling my eyes and laughing out loud, and Haley\u2019s transformation from shy schoolteacher to the brawling grasshopper with her \u201cfits of fury\u201d was a picture I could not get out of my head. I wanted them to be together as more than just friends, but the pace that was set for them to get there fit the characters and their circumstances. At one point I felt rather annoyed with Haley and her stubbornness when it came to forgiving Jason, yes he could be a jerk, but the good in him outweighed the bad. When the realization hits her that she might lose him forever, she uses tactics that is reminiscent of Jason when we first met him\u2026. his grasshopper has learned well! I didn\u2019t want Jason and Haley's story to end, I wanted more time with this adorable couple, but all good things must come to an end. Alas, it does, but R. L. Mathewson gives us a satisfying epilogue that warmed my heart and put a huge smile on my face. We are currently having a Giveaway at Swept Away By Romance-R.L. Mathewson is giving away ALL of her published books to 2 very lucky winners (ends on February 23, 2012) http://sweptawaybyromance.blogspot.com/ ...more Always a glutton for punishment, Haley Blaine believes she can tolerate anything her jerk of a neighbor can dish out. After five years of his antics, she has had enough and flips out on him and has no plans in holding back her unleashed fury, well that is until she finds out the real reason he was tearing up her garden. <---C>Jason Bradford</---C> loves women, just doesn't love them enough to start a relationship with him. After five years of getting the cold shoulder from his neighbor, he is delightfully sur Always a glutton for punishment, Haley Blaine believes she can tolerate anything her jerk of a neighbor can dish out. After five years of his antics, she has had enough and flips out on him and has no plans in holding back her unleashed fury, well that is until she finds out the real reason he was tearing up her garden. Jason Bradford loves women, just doesn't love them enough to start a relationship with him. After five years of getting the cold shoulder from his neighbor, he is delightfully surprised to find out she is a baseball fan, cooks sinfully delicious goodies, and a total blast to hang with. As a unique friendship develops, both Jason and Haley find themselves dating each other without actually dating one another, only time will tell if it will develop into something more. I thought this was a huge surprise, it is funny, cute, and has just enough surprises to keep me from putting it down. Jason has an obsessively unhealthy addiction to food, which adds several extremely funny moments in the book. Fantastic read, I would not have looked at it twice, but found it in the you might also like section. Glad I did. **Reread because I had read Perfection. So here is the head scratcher for me, in this book they are both teachers. In the next book, Perfection Jason works for his dad's construction company? Althought he may just be helping out but I was kind of boggled on this part. There are some pretty funny moments in this book that I forgot about. ...more ***3.75 Neighborly stars*** A NEIGHBOR FROM HELL is what Jason is when he moves in next door to Haley . \"My name is Jason Bradford. I'm the neighbor from hell.\" You won't find Mister Rogers neighborhood love between these two feuding neighbors. Until one day a bunch of Tulips change their relationship. Enemies - Friends - Lovers! SERIES: No cliffhangers. Spinoffs It's the book, not me. That I can guarantee. Let me cut the chase without the review propriety and just get on with my main concerns. I have high expectations when it comes to story pacing. If the author wants to make scene development fast-paced to avoid boring plot and dialogue, then it should be subtly written so as not to make the entire book sketchy. As for characterization, Jason Bradford and Haley Blaine were both immature in this reader\u2019s opinion. The break-up scenes were too childish for m It's the book, not me. That I can guarantee. Let me cut the chase without the review propriety and just get on with my main concerns. I have high expectations when it comes to story pacing. If the author wants to make scene development fast-paced to avoid boring plot and dialogue, then it should be subtly written so as not to make the entire book sketchy. As for characterization, Jason Bradford and Haley Blaine were both immature in this reader\u2019s opinion. The break-up scenes were too childish for my taste. It\u2019s a level of miscommunication that can be easily solved if two people who claimed they were indeed in love would not be too damn proud and would just listen thoughtfully. Overall, a mediocre read for me with some eye rolls alongside. Tsk. This book could have been a 5-star due to its interesting plot and funny lines. But like I\u2019ve said, if only\u2026 ...more 2016 Genre Challenge: Erotica Contains Spoilers! 4.25 stars! So I really enjoyed this. it was funny and light. l love how they were enemies then friends and lovers!Omg at times I was laughing so much. Haley was too funny with her fist of fury.lol Jason was just as hilarious with all his possessiveness of his food! Now at one point I wanted to deck Jason so bad ! he really pissed me off. Why he would even consider believing some hoe i don't know. but then again he really didn't belive in himself to be good enough for Haley th Contains Spoilers! 4.25 stars! So I really enjoyed this. it was funny and light. l love how they were enemies then friends and lovers!Omg at times I was laughing so much. Haley was too funny with her fist of fury.lol Jason was just as hilarious with all his possessiveness of his food! Now at one point I wanted to deck Jason so bad ! he really pissed me off. Why he would even consider believing some hoe i don't know. but then again he really didn't belive in himself to be good enough for Haley that he let his stupid insecurities get the best of him. I do love how he tried to grovel ( he still in my eyes needed to grovel more)he knew he was stupid and wrong. I love how he snuck in her car and didn't take no for an answer. as he should he messed up! I love how Haley didn't forgive him and didn't give in . she let him have it. Now Haley upset me too. She was just as foolish with her feelings and insecurities as Jason was. Although I don't blame her for feeling like that. his past isn't a good thing. anyhow they both made mistakes and I'm glad it all worked out :) I was able to forgive Jason. Haleys family I hated! I loved his friends and family. They were too funny. Love the epilogue :)Enjoyable read! safety : they were neighbors for five years. Haley would see women over his house yelling and cussing out Jason. He did have ow during those five years. But they weren't Friends . I don't think they actual talked . they hated each other. Jason was a manwhore but he never brought anyone to his house. he never had relationships and never loved. he always used protection (except for with haley). haley dated different guys during those five years too. she is a virgin but she said she has heavily made out. I don't know to what extent .I think she gave oral before but not sure. there is one part were an ow trys to cause drama and does kind of succeed. Jason and haley never cheat . he hasn't slept with anyone or anything since actually talking and becoming friends with haley. in fact it has been a while for him since he last had sex before him and haley became actual friends. I think that's it. ...more I absolutely LOVED this book! Playing for Keeps is flat out hilarious! I couldn't put the book down. I was up at 3:30 in the morning laughing my butt off so loud I was afraid I would wake the kids. Jason's love for food cracks me up like nothing else. I love Jason, his friends, his father, Haley... I love them all. This book is brilliant! I can't wait to start the next in the series, Perfection. I have just found a new favorite author! If you want a funny, heartfelt story, read this book! \"For I absolutely LOVED this book! Playing for Keeps is flat out hilarious! I couldn't put the book down. I was up at 3:30 in the morning laughing my butt off so loud I was afraid I would wake the kids. Jason's love for food cracks me up like nothing else. I love Jason, his friends, his father, Haley... I love them all. This book is brilliant! I can't wait to start the next in the series, Perfection. I have just found a new favorite author! If you want a funny, heartfelt story, read this book! \"For the hundredth time, I am not the Daniel-son to your Mr. Miyagi.\" \"The woman had a huge bag, probably twenty pounds, of Hershey's kisses and mini Reese's Peanut Butter cups and he'd be dam*ed if he wasn't getting at least fifteen pounds of that. The hell with the kids. Did they really need an education more than he needed chocolate? They all had trust funds. They could get by with a tenth grade education. He on the other hand needed that dam* chocolate.\" \"What do you mean when? You were there. You saw me kicking some a*s!\" That thing you were doing with your hands?\" She nodded. \"I thought you were having a seizure of some kind.\" \"Keep it up and I'm going to kick your a*s with my fists of fury!\" ...more LOVED. THIS. BOOK. So cute and funny and sappy! You cookie thieving bastard Jason and his father were suchhhhhh food sluts!", "Title": "Playing for Keeps"},
