{"Comments": "\"CEMETERY STREET\" BY JOHN ZUNSKI I loved this book. I feel one reason is that I lived those times and was around the same age during the 80's and 90's as the characters in the stories. This book spoke to me in volumes. The characters are written with a knowledge that shows the author knew those years as well and felt a kinship with his characters as I did while reading it. The 80's the way I remember them, were a time when friendship meant everything and the mother in this book, unfortunately, re \"CEMETERY STREET\" BY JOHN ZUNSKI I loved this book. I feel one reason is that I lived those times and was around the same age during the 80's and 90's as the characters in the stories. This book spoke to me in volumes. The characters are written with a knowledge that shows the author knew those years as well and felt a kinship with his characters as I did while reading it. The 80's the way I remember them, were a time when friendship meant everything and the mother in this book, unfortunately, reminded me of my own. I identified with the male lead in this book, James, on so many levels and at times felt like I was his female counterpart like <---A>John Zunski</---A> had taken my story and printed it on paper for the world to read. The story is about friendship, loss, war, coming to terms with life in general and growing up in a time so much different than today and learning to embrace who you really are. A truly fantastic novel well worth the read, I will actively seek out more of this authors work in the near future. James, Shannie, and Count will forever be a part of me! Wonderful,<---M> wonderful book</---M>, I simply can't praise it enough! 5 Ravens flying high! Kitty Bullard / Great Minds Think Aloud / http://www.greatmindsliterarycommunit...<---F> Read more: http://www</---F>.greatmindsthinkaloud.probo... ...more I've recently come across quite a few authors that have just an undefined category as to where you need to stick them. Labels seem so harsh at times. This book was unique in many factors. It was told from a man's perspective, as he was visiting the grave of his lost love. It seems that James was caught in a turmoil of drama ever since the day his parents decided to move to <+++>Cemetery Street</+++>. Only somethings are just not meant to be, no matter how much your heart longs for them. Love is unique to e I've recently come across quite a few authors that have just an undefined category as to where you need to stick them. Labels seem so harsh at times. This book was unique in many factors. It was told from a man's perspective, as he was visiting the grave of his lost love. It seems that James was caught in a turmoil of drama ever since the day his parents decided to move to <+++>Cemetery Street</+++>. Only somethings are just not meant to be, no matter how much your heart longs for them. Love is unique to each person, and therefore each person's story is different. No two loves are ever the same, and they never happen in the same way. We grow and change. But this story being told is of Jame's life from 12 to almost 30. He had a very interesting ride to find himself, and it finally happened in Montana of all places! The book begins with James visiting Shannie's grave. Shannie was his best friend from 12 until the day she died. James fell in love with her somewhere along the way but Shannie would never be his. Even though fighting between Jame's parents was continuous, he had a happy childhood with his 2 best friends. Count decided after graduating that his future belonged to the army. Count was Jame's other best friend. Shannie wanted to be a lawyer, and James really didn't have a direction he wanted to go to. He floundered a bit, never really being swayed by either parent who seemed to always be stuck in some sort of battle. And then of course you mix in some small town weirdness, old rumors, a blind man, Shannie's mother and you have a recipe for a really good read. Jame's goes through a lot during this story. He deals with loss constantly throughout is whole story. Whether it be a person, a feeling, or a situation. His struggles during his life turn him into an interesting adult. It almost seems at some points in the book that he obsesses over what he knows he cannot have. I would say its a mixture of Stand by Me and Forrest Gump. Bits and pieces of both of the movies stuck in my head as I read through the pages. This was a tear-jerker in a few parts but a book that definitely keeps your attention. It makes you re-evaluate and think about your own life. Can it possibly compare? What would you have done differently? I really enjoyed going through Jame's memories but I would have liked to have peered into Shannie's diary a bit more. But all in all it was an excellent read!! ...more I wouldn't mind crying and laughing some...hope I can win this book! John Zunski's book is a poignant look into the mixture of happiness and tragedy that accompanies many of us as we navigate our way through the volatile teen years on through to the indecision of early adulthood. He beautifully captures the evolution of an early teen friendship (<---B>James and Shannie</---B>) and its often confused and conflicted entry into the realm of love. Along the way, Zunski helps to remind us that the bonds we establish early in our lives echo into our futures, shaping who we are and John Zunski's book is a poignant look into the mixture of happiness and tragedy that accompanies many of us as we navigate our way through the volatile teen years on through to the indecision of early adulthood. He beautifully captures the evolution of an early teen friendship (James and Shannie) and its often confused and conflicted entry into the realm of love. Along the way, Zunski helps to remind us that the bonds we establish early in our lives echo into our futures, shaping who we are and how we relate to the world. The story is told from the perspective of protagonist James Morrison and begins with him, as an adult, reflecting on the loss of a childhood friend-cum-confidant-cum-lover. The story quickly takes root in James' past where Zunski pieces together the trials and tribulations of the teenage years, as experienced by James and his close knit group of friends, growing up in the shadows of a cemetery. A cemetery which, throughout the story, provides a constant reminder of the fragility and sometimes abbreviated nature of life. Along the train tracks in a small suburban town outside of Philadelphia, James and his friends grow together forging strong ties starting in middle school, into high school and onto college and professional endeavors which pull them apart only physically. Cemetery Street has several themes working throughout, however, at its core, it is a touching tale of a love that never had the opportunity to fully bloom in a manner befitting the protagonist. A lack of will, unclear desires and a life cut short all intertwine to create a story revealing that our hopes and aspirations always manage to lie beyond our control. Zunski's storytelling strong hand lies in his suppression of the reveal, choosing instead to focus on character development diving deep into their thoughts, troubles, and challenges. It is done with a certain finesse allowing the reader to become a witness to events rather than merely a page turning machine. As it must be stated, the novel is not beyond criticism and there were a few elements of the novel which I struggled to digest. Specifically, I found there to be some 'inauthentic' language and dialog which had me second guessing specified ages of characters and points in history. Additionally, there were a couple of conflict situations which seemed to accelerate at an unnatural pace. Taken as a whole though, these elements did not cast much of a shadow over what is otherwise a quality piece of work. I look forward to future titles from Zunski! ...more This book is not just about families and friendship bonding through the years. It is an in depth exploration into the trials and tribulations of the late 80's- into the early 90's, 20th century which a close group of friends experienced, the joys and sorrows of daily life. It is very descriptive, poignant and realistic with the raw emotions of human feelings, the deep attachment one's has with another and they all are intertwined into life's journey through being a friend, support network and co This book is not just about families and friendship bonding through the years. It is an in depth exploration into the trials and tribulations of the late 80's- into the early 90's, 20th century which a close group of friends experienced, the joys and sorrows of daily life. It is very descriptive, poignant and realistic with the raw emotions of human feelings, the deep attachment one's has with another and they all are intertwined into life's journey through being a friend, support network and concludes rallying and seeking justice for a veteran who fought bravely for the Gulf War. The letters home brought tears to this reader's eyes. It started as a roller coaster ride down, then picked up speed as it surprises the readers with events not expect, then boom the heart is racing and the tears are flowing for all the characters as they travel down the road of life and experiences life and death realities and grow or are defeated by life's blows to transform from adolescents to adults. In the author's own words \"A breeze rustled the trees, their bare limbs swaying to the sound of her voice. I turned praying she would be sitting on the sandstone bench like she was thirteen years ago - Indian style, her wild mane speckled with snowflakes. I imagine her gaze staring across the dozing river, past the distant rushing traffic, into eternity. My gaze was met by a dusting of snow atop the bench. Disappointment consumed me. \u201cPeople who do nothing but watch, feel nothing but disappointment,\u201d she once scolded. \" An eye opener to remember our loved ones who are here today and maybe gone tomorrow, not to take them for granted. Every precious moment is enriching as this book is. A keeper ...more A triumph! This is truly a fabulous book! Zunski artfully tells the coming of age story of James - a young boy faithfully enamored with Shannie, a spunky, smart and funny young blonde, and their friends growing up in a small town near Philadelphia. This book has stuck with me through some personally overwhelming times of late. I've thought about the characters, wondered how they were doing, and when I had time to pick up the book through some very busy months did so as though I was visiting with A triumph! This is truly a fabulous book! Zunski artfully tells the coming of age story of James - a young boy faithfully enamored with Shannie, a spunky, smart and funny young blonde, and their friends growing up in a small town near Philadelphia. This book has stuck with me through some personally overwhelming times of late. I've thought about the characters, wondered how they were doing, and when I had time to pick up the book through some very busy months did so as though I was visiting with old friends. It brought a smile to my face to be back in Beyford, back on Cemetery Street with a host of fictional friends. Today, I finally got a chance to sit down and read the last 4 chapters. The characters are so vivid, so real - they are developed skilfully, each dynamic with familiar quirks and saying. Beyford itself comes alive and you feel like you've driven down the center of town or stood outside on the yard between James' and Shannie's house. Zunski has supreme talent at balancing sadness with humor. This book can best be described as bittersweet and the reader is left with a heavy heart when the last chapter is read. Zunksi clearly knows the pains of growing up and the loss of innocence that we all, quite sadly, find during those formidable years from early teens through our twenties. One of the best books I've read in years and I think one that will stay with me a long time. This book truly resonated with me in a special way. Highly recommend, but beware: it is an emotional ride! I was sad to leave Beyford but am looking forward to other works from this author! ...more With a variety of situations that happen in all levels of the society you live in, no matter where you are in the world: angst, pain, love, death, Cemetary Street is set in what I would consider Anytown, US, but what I understood to be emotionally engaging to some, didn\u2019t grab me. I could certainly feel the power of the author\u2019s vision in this \u201cslice of someone\u2019s life\u201d tale and what they wished to present, yet the \u201call-American\u201d theme especially when including military life has never been one I With a variety of situations that happen in all levels of the society you live in, no matter where you are in the world: angst, pain, love, death, Cemetary Street is set in what I would consider Anytown, US, but what I understood to be emotionally engaging to some, didn\u2019t grab me. I could certainly feel the power of the author\u2019s vision in this \u201cslice of someone\u2019s life\u201d tale and what they wished to present, yet the \u201call-American\u201d theme especially when including military life has never been one I identified with or care for. Characters were vividly drawn and detailed, no doubting that, and the story moved forward with good pace, and obviously a clear plan, I felt Cemetary Street was a great debut effort, but just wasn\u2019t my type of read. ...more Cemetery Street is not a book, it is a life. There is more emotion in this story than any TV drama can ever evoke in a whole season of daily episodes. I\u2019m struggling to find a genre that would encompass such a wide range of sensations. I suppose it is a \u2018coming of age\u2019 in essence. James Morrison, aged twelve, moves to a town he doesn\u2019t know, in a house opposite a cemetery (which frightens him) and the family atmosphere isn\u2019t all that special. Luckily, his next door neighbour, Shannie, aged thirte Cemetery Street is not a book, it is a life. There is more emotion in this story than any TV drama can ever evoke in a whole season of daily episodes. I\u2019m struggling to find a genre that would encompass such a wide range of sensations. I suppose it is a \u2018coming of age\u2019 in essence. James Morrison, aged twelve, moves to a town he doesn\u2019t know, in a house opposite a cemetery (which frightens him) and the family atmosphere isn\u2019t all that special. Luckily, his next door neighbour, Shannie, aged thirteen, is there to help ease the tension. Instant infatuation makes James\u2019 life a little more bearable and he continues to explore the town, its inhabitants and Shannie\u2019s friends and haunting grounds. I won\u2019t give away the surprises. This is one of those books that contains no high-speed chases, no deranged psycho watching from the shadows, and no bloodbath or inexplicable murders. Despite all that, or maybe because it is a simple story of life, you will not be able to put it down. I couldn\u2019t. To me, every decision James took, every conversation between him and his friends, every hope, every disappointment were so vitally important to know, to be party to, that work was left undone and someone else had to do the cooking because I simply had to keep reading. John Zunski is the master of characterization. Each character is well developed and has its own voice \u2013 and I mean every single one, whether they appear in every chapter, or live for a mere few lines. It is impossible to not care. I loved Shannie, James, Count and got drawn in to Genise\u2019s world, too. I loved the gang of kids waiting on a street corner and admired the quiet assertiveness of Jerome when he decided Ellie wasn\u2019t that bad a dog. The back stories that play along in the background highlight a different person each time. If there is one message that is very clear is that no one is ever what they seem. Every person is different, regardless of what they may look like, but there is value in every life, no matter how tortured or stunted or anguished it may be. I loved this book. I absolutely didn\u2019t want it to end. I cared so much, I wanted to protect its characters from life itself. I wanted to take care of them all and jump on a plane to go and help, if I could. I was so deeply immersed in it when I finished, that I needed to take a couple of days away from it before I could be cool enough to write this review. I have been moved to tears and I didn\u2019t expect that. With no hesitation, I would recommend this book over and over again. Read it. It is most definitely worth it. ...more Cemetery street is a story about so many things. Mainly, it is the story of James Morrison's life. It is told so beautifully, and with such detail and explicit emotion that it is not even slightly boring. This books gives us such a spectacular view on the commonplace complexities we face constantly in life. Zunksi breathes life into everyday occurrences and shows them to us in a brand new light. While reading this, you will get a startling insight on life, love, loss, hate, anger, joy, family, f Cemetery street is a story about so many things. Mainly, it is the story of James Morrison's life. It is told so beautifully, and with such detail and explicit emotion that it is not even slightly boring. This books gives us such a spectacular view on the commonplace complexities we face constantly in life. Zunksi breathes life into everyday occurrences and shows them to us in a brand new light. While reading this, you will get a startling insight on life, love, loss, hate, anger, joy, family, friends, growing up, and most importantly, death. Death is a major theme in this book, making the name of the book and street James grows up on pretty relevant. Death is something we all have to deal with way more often than we would prefer. Sometimes, hearing about others' experiences helps us with our own. You may find this story does just that for you. I would say love is the next most important theme is this book. James has grown up with his best friend, love of his life, Shannie, living next door. They literally do everything together, they are as close as two people can possibly be without being together. But oh how James wishes they could be. Shannie will forever be the yardstick that everyone else is measured against for James, but I doubt anyone will ever come close to measuring up. This book definitely has it's mature moments, there is a little sprinkling of sex here and there. But, the intimate scenes in this book were not placed merely for sex's sake. Each scene is a major plot/character developing moment and is very tastefully written. The sex scenes play a very important role in the unfolding of this story and they are not in any way vulgar or over the top. I found them to be wonderfully placed and detailed perfectly. If you have ever seen the movie Stand By Me, which happens to be one of my all time favorite movies, you will understand what I mean when I say that this book has an atmosphere much the same as that movie. If you haven't seen it, I recommend you do. It's based of a short story called The Body by Stephen King. This book and that movie just do such an amazing job of capturing the essence that is life and growing up and dealing with life's blows one by one. This was a really great read and you should probably read it ;). ...more BEC'S REVIEW Cemetery Street is a compelling story and one that had me hooked, despite the disjointed nature of time in the story. While maintaining the basic chronological order of the story, many events occurred via flash back or flash forward without any notice in regards as to when in time these events occur. While the reason for this somewhat disjointed nature of the story is explained by events later on, it does serve to cause some confusion that could be avoided in some way. Another aspect BEC'S REVIEW Cemetery Street is a compelling story and one that had me hooked, despite the disjointed nature of time in the story. While maintaining the basic chronological order of the story, many events occurred via flash back or flash forward without any notice in regards as to when in time these events occur. While the reason for this somewhat disjointed nature of the story is explained by events later on, it does serve to cause some confusion that could be avoided in some way. Another aspect of the story I didn\u2019t particularly enjoy were the letter and diary aspect halfway in the story. On finishing that aspect I can totally understand their inclusion as an attempt to make an emotional event directly afterwards more emotional and maintain contact with a specific character while said character is not with the main protagonist. And yet I feel the emotional impact of the event in question would have been just as emotional without their inclusion. The letters and diary were a little too off and a tangent and at times their inclusion felt forced. It took you away from the main story for a time being, and while I understand the reasoning behind them I still did not enjoy them. Despite this slight confusion I did enjoy Cemetery Street. It is one of those novels that tells you the shocking event within the first few pages, and then later surprises you with it later on as you know it\u2019ll happen but not when in the story or how. So even though I knew of this major event and tried to brace myself for it, I was still surprised by how it occurred and able to feel slightly emotional. Overall Cemetery Street is a great book and one I recommend. ...more A brilliantly written coming of age story about a boy named James Morrison. Him and his family move into a house on Cemetery Street. After moving in he befriends a witty spirited young girl named Shannie who he eventually falls inlove with. He also became friends with an older boy named Count who just so happens to be the local cemetery caretaker\u2019s son. All Three soon started spending time, doing almost everything together. They loved playing games of course, especially one called catch the trai A brilliantly written coming of age story about a boy named James Morrison. Him and his family move into a house on Cemetery Street. After moving in he befriends a witty spirited young girl named Shannie who he eventually falls inlove with. He also became friends with an older boy named Count who just so happens to be the local cemetery caretaker\u2019s son. All Three soon started spending time, doing almost everything together. They loved playing games of course, especially one called catch the train, where they would one by one go into the local train tunnel and wait to see oncoming visible headlights from a train, and at the very last minute they would run out from the tunnel laughing, thinking were able to cheat death. Numerous events shake up James\u2019 life along with those around him. As you read on, a vast emotion of happiness, love, and appreciation run through you like a flowing river of words. After some time goes by, his grandfather, who is an army veteran, visits him and his family and inspires many lives. During this time James\u2019 mother leaves for California never to be heard from again. After his grandfather left, a series of events lead to adventures in which all the characters in the book especially James\u2019, grow. As years past, Shannie and James grow apart and tragedy follows with an inspirational but reflective ending. This novel is a must-read, it will make you laugh, cry and fall in-love with the characters. ...more As a reader, I expect a book to be completely finished by the time it gets into my hands. It should be properly formatted, edited and the grammar should be impeccable. This book is not finished in any of those regards. I found the prose to be choppy, discombobulated and schizophrenic. One paragraph had no connection to the next, many times make me ask what just happened. I had to go back a reread sections to understand what Zunski was trying to say and when he was trying to say it. The story jum As a reader, I expect a book to be completely finished by the time it gets into my hands. It should be properly formatted, edited and the grammar should be impeccable. This book is not finished in any of those regards. I found the prose to be choppy, discombobulated and schizophrenic. One paragraph had no connection to the next, many times make me ask what just happened. I had to go back a reread sections to understand what Zunski was trying to say and when he was trying to say it. The story jumped around the timeline so much that during many moments I didn't know when I was reading about. I often enjoy stories that do not follow a linear storyline, but Cemetery Street just did not do this well. The author also doesn't explain the myriad of terms he uses that are not part of everyday language (see the whole sky diving section). I found myself having to google so many terms and words that I was removed from the story. I found no connection to the characters other than the mother in the sense that I wanted to run away too from these people too. Not all characters need to be likable to make a good book. I just found nothing at all of interest in these people and just didn't care what happened to them. None could hold my interest. All of that said, I still found moments of sheer humor in the writing which I did enjoy and that is why I'm giving this book 2 stars. ...more Cemetery Street is not the kind of book I like to read, but I\u2019m not saying it\u2019s not good. It was okay. It\u2019s like an autobiography, where the main character, James Morrison, tells his life story. What I don\u2019t like in these kinds of stories is how time flies by so fast. 20 years pass by so quickly as each page grows. I hate how there\u2019s no specific problem in the story. Though the end was kind of a beginning of some sort for James. It\u2019s a coming-of-age novel. Fast and straightforwardly written. Star Cemetery Street is not the kind of book I like to read, but I\u2019m not saying it\u2019s not good. It was okay. It\u2019s like an autobiography, where the main character, James Morrison, tells his life story. What I don\u2019t like in these kinds of stories is how time flies by so fast. 20 years pass by so quickly as each page grows. I hate how there\u2019s no specific problem in the story. Though the end was kind of a beginning of some sort for James. It\u2019s a coming-of-age novel. Fast and straightforwardly written. Started with the present then all was flashbacks. I have to admit I was confused a lot of times with the double flashbacks. Warning for sensitive readers though, you might not like how much foul language was used in the book, that\u2019s how realistic it is. James Morrison\u2019s life story was not all bad, but he had his moments. Shannie, James\u2019 best friend reminds me of Alaska from Looking for Alaska by John Green. They are so much alike. I pity James a lot of times, he loved too much. I can\u2019t help wishing he\u2019ll find someone who\u2019ll really complete him, and he\u2019s still young. The novel gives us a sense of hope that life happens, and we make the most of it. Brings us back to the 80\u2019s (not that I\u2019ve been there) and 90\u2019s, not so much different from now. Talks of life, death, love, and everythign that happens in between. Good story. ...more Review by: Chaz Young on Aug. 04, 2011 : star star star star star This is refreshingly unique book that looks at death and how it affects friends who grow up with each other. A very thought provoking piece of work. (reviewed within a month of purchase) Review by: Tanya Contois on July 30, 2011 : star star star star star The author of Cemetery Street has created an intriguing story about love, loss, and friendship.I enjoyed the way that I was able to see each of the younger characters grow and matur Review by: Chaz Young on Aug. 04, 2011 : star star star star star This is refreshingly unique book that looks at death and how it affects friends who grow up with each other. A very thought provoking piece of work. (reviewed within a month of purchase) Review by: Tanya Contois on July 30, 2011 : star star star star star The author of Cemetery Street has created an intriguing story about love, loss, and friendship.I enjoyed the way that I was able to see each of the younger characters grow and mature while handling the obstacles life threw at them.Anyone who reads this book should have some tissues nearby because I can almost guarantee that you'll tear up a few times. (reviewed long after purchase) Review by: Georgi Abbott on June 02, 2011 : star star star star star This is a charming and emotional book. Well written and easy to get caught up in. A good story and enjoyable read. (reviewed within a month of purchase) Reviews posted on Smashwords regarding Cemetery Street ...more A darker, post-modern take on Bridge to Terabithia. Don\u2019t get me wrong, this isn\u2019t a young adult book, but it is a coming of age story\u2013the sort of hard growing up that one attains through depth of living and loss. While not without its lighter, humorous moments that sparkle with delight (my favorites involve the cemetery caretaker and his family), this story is rich with struggle, difficulty, doubt and grief. Altogether its a wonderfully crafted, thoughtful and satisfying tale revolving around a A darker, post-modern take on Bridge to Terabithia. Don\u2019t get me wrong, this isn\u2019t a young adult book, but it is a coming of age story\u2013the sort of hard growing up that one attains through depth of living and loss. While not without its lighter, humorous moments that sparkle with delight (my favorites involve the cemetery caretaker and his family), this story is rich with struggle, difficulty, doubt and grief. Altogether its a wonderfully crafted, thoughtful and satisfying tale revolving around a main character who is impossible to read without seeing yourself. Read it and weep. Zunski is a talented writer who lives in Montana (so you know he\u2019s the real deal). Read it! Review it! Share it! *This book does contain adult language, especially in the second half. And honestly, I probably would have given it 5 stars, but for the fact I've been living and breathing thrillers lately as an occupational hazard. ...more James Morrison is your average foul-mouthed teenager living in small-town Pennsylvania, except that he's in love with his best friend, Shannie. Cemetery Street chronicles his life, from the day he moves in next to the cemetery, to the day he leaves. Cemetery Street was a long, engrossing personal saga. I enjoyed the characters, who I found nuanced and believable. Reading this book reminded me how much I used to swear when I was a teenager. I have to warn anyone considering this book, however, tha James Morrison is your average foul-mouthed teenager living in small-town Pennsylvania, except that he's in love with his best friend, Shannie. Cemetery Street chronicles his life, from the day he moves in next to the cemetery, to the day he leaves. Cemetery Street was a long, engrossing personal saga. I enjoyed the characters, who I found nuanced and believable. Reading this book reminded me how much I used to swear when I was a teenager. I have to warn anyone considering this book, however, that there are continual grammar errors and typos throughout the book. And there are a lot of flashbacks that aren't delineated obviously enough; I found myself struggling to understand certain sequences of events. However, I enjoyed the story and would recommend it. Zunski got a few tears out of me at the end. ...more This was a really good book ... had me laughing ... even out loud at some points (I read on the commuter train, so I was getting weird looks). Had me crying too, that, I hid from my traveling mates. My opinion of this book is that it's a comfortable book to read. You start reading and you're carried away with the characters. You are living with them in that dead end street, you feel the train rushing by, it was amazing. When you put the book down, you're calm and relax ... that makes it a great b This was a really good book ... had me laughing ... even out loud at some points (I read on the commuter train, so I was getting weird looks). Had me crying too, that, I hid from my traveling mates. My opinion of this book is that it's a comfortable book to read. You start reading and you're carried away with the characters. You are living with them in that dead end street, you feel the train rushing by, it was amazing. When you put the book down, you're calm and relax ... that makes it a great book. No pressure to rush to the end ... but you want to keep reading on. It's a beautiful well written story. Thanks John and I will be looking forward to the sequel. I would recommend this book. ...more Zunski has created a very believable story that is more than just another 'coming of age' story. It is a candid look back on events of the heros life as a young man. The details and insight of this story are flawless and give life to Count, Shanie, and most of all to James. It is impossible to not fall in love with the people in this story and the moment you put the book down to look for James's phone number. By stories end James will have become a friend and you will want to call him, to let hi Zunski has created a very believable story that is more than just another 'coming of age' story. It is a candid look back on events of the heros life as a young man. The details and insight of this story are flawless and give life to Count, Shanie, and most of all to James. It is impossible to not fall in love with the people in this story and the moment you put the book down to look for James's phone number. By stories end James will have become a friend and you will want to call him, to let him he know he is not alone. This is a book worth picking up and spending a weekend with. ...more Get your tissues out! A great novel written about the \"coming of age\" of the kids that lived on Cemetery Street in a small town, starting mostly in 1985 and onward. Their triumphs and tradgedies weave a compelling story with unexpected twist and turns that will turn into a tearjerker as you get imbedded into their lives. This is truely a \"must read\" you don't want to miss. I had a hard time putting it down and can't wait to read the next book by this author! Cemetery Street was a wonderful book filled with every emotion you can think of. From the mid 80's the book follows the lives of James, Shannie, Count, and a host of other characters giving you a first-hand glimpse of their lives. All characters were impeccably detailed and it was great to follow them on their journeys. I will most certainly be reading more of this authors work. Starts out as a coming-of-age novel, but goes beyond that to explore love and tragedy. A moving book that really conveys the feelings of the characters.<---C>Russell</---C>", "Title": "Cemetery Street"},
