{"Comments": "after finally reading this book and listening to the awed murmurings that accompany any mention of it, i'm mostly just awash in a sea of confusion. a lot of reviews point to how teju cole defies stereotype. i assume this refers to the stereotypical third-world oppression/poverty porn crap that's lining the shelves these days. though saying that a book defies stereotype isn't about how good the book is, it's about how bad everything else is in comparison. as compliments go, it's a piss-poor one. after finally reading this book and listening to the awed murmurings that accompany any mention of it, i'm mostly just awash in a sea of confusion. a lot of reviews point to how teju cole defies stereotype. i assume this refers to the stereotypical third-world oppression/poverty porn crap that's lining the shelves these days. though saying that a book defies stereotype isn't about how good the book is, it's about how bad everything else is in comparison. as compliments go, it's a piss-poor one. there's also much admiration in reviews about this dude's loving descriptions of the inconsequential -- the rain,<---M> the pavement</---M>, the plastic seat in the subway.<---F> that sort of thing</---F>. but the ability to describe minutia in painful detail doesn't equal the capacity for profound thought. (<---B>unless you're michael cunningham but who is nowadays.</---B>) teju cole's a decent writer, this much is obvious. the solitary narrator format would've been a total disaster in the hands of someone less skilled. the narrator's melancholy meanderings about the city paint the perfect picture of The Cultural Hybrid's disorientation and in this case also julius' urban isolation -- interrupted only by chance encounters with people who, for no apparent reason, want to tell him their entire life stories. and this is where the problems begin. there's nothing remotely realistic about this narrative, and the interactions julius has with drifters across different cities are self-conscious and unnatural. after being forced through one after another droning soliloquy about each stranger's life, the reader is struck with a paradoxical kind of annoyance. you know too much about incidental characters who appeared out of nowhere for no reason, and you don't know enough to get invested or to care for more information. then there is julius himself. if you're going to spend 250 pages locked inside one man's relentless contemplation of himself and how he relates to his surroundings, he'd better damn well be likeable, or at least interesting. julius is neither. with each passing page, you feel less and less sympathy for him. he keeps both, the world and the reader at a safe distance. all you know about him is that he's half-german/ half-nigerian, collects deeply personal information about people he doesn't particularly care about, makes snap judgments about them based on that information, and is too resigned/tired/bored/indifferent to engage with them in any meaningful way. he seems totally estranged from his family, which is not surprising given what a sullen git he is. he does seem to like his dead grandmother though, which is not surprising because you can't be a sullen git with a corpse. he's besties with his dying professor who, shockers, dies in the end. julius' response to the death of potentially the only person on the planet who likes him? \"Oh Christ.\" towards the end of the novel, we're treated to a piece of disturbing information about julius. [SPOILER ALERT, not that it matters.] he may or may not be an occasional rapist. i don't really understand the point of this little plot twist in an otherwise plot-free book. is it meant to shake our foundations, or what we thought we knew about the character? if that's the intended purpose, it misses the mark because even after hours of walking the streets with our mirthless narrator, he remains a stranger. the scraps of information he feeds us about himself engender neither sympathy nor a desire to know more. ...more Reading Cole\u2019s \u201c<+++>Open City</+++>\u201d was kind of like giving someone the black person head nod, and the other person staring back at you like you\u2019re crazy. That\u2019s basically what I felt in struggling to finish this book. I bought the novel as an act of solidarity, because he is a young black writer writing about young black experiences. Now, I won\u2019t stop supporting writers in general and young black ones in particular, but I will keep it real if the work is not engaging. I didn\u2019t recognize myself (or peopl Reading Cole\u2019s \u201c<+++>Open City</+++>\u201d was kind of like giving someone the black person head nod, and the other person staring back at you like you\u2019re crazy. That\u2019s basically what I felt in struggling to finish this book. I bought the novel as an act of solidarity, because he is a young black writer writing about young black experiences. Now, I won\u2019t stop supporting writers in general and young black ones in particular, but I will keep it real if the work is not engaging. I didn\u2019t recognize myself (or people I know) in the story. \u201cCity\u201d is Cole\u2019s first novel, and details the daily life of Julius, a Nigerian-German psychiatry student in his last year of residency in a New York hospital. The story follows him as he wanders Manhattan and thinks. Cole\u2019s prose is beautiful and reflective and the book is incredibly written. However, the minimal plot and Julius\u2019 general douchiness (a symptom of his privileges \u2013 male, socioeconomic, doctoral) left me not really caring about anything happening in the protagonist\u2019s life. Like at all. I don\u2019t care that he walked down to Wall Street to reflect, I don\u2019t care that he hates his white mother, and I don\u2019t care that he goes to Belgium and screws a cougar. I had literary constipation, because I literally did not give a give a sh*t. ...more Had I done a bit more research, I never would have started this book. I do not care about New York. I do not care about your observations of birdlife. I do not care about your descriptions of buildings. I do not care about your random conversations with random people about nothing, in large part because I do not think they add up to anything. Well well, I vaguely remembered a review of a novel, possibly not this one, in which a guy thinks about Foucault. For some reason, I thought I was in the m Had I done a bit more research, I never would have started this book. I do not care about New York. I do not care about your observations of birdlife. I do not care about your descriptions of buildings. I do not care about your random conversations with random people about nothing, in large part because I do not think they add up to anything. Well well, I vaguely remembered a review of a novel, possibly not this one, in which a guy thinks about Foucault. For some reason, I thought I was in the mood for that last night, and started this book. Bad idea. As if all my above indifferences were not enough, the prose reminded me of Joseph O'Neill's Netherland. For instance, \"As interesting as my research project was--I was conducting a clinical study of affective disorders in the elderly--the level of detail it demanded was of an intricacy that exceeded anything else I had done thus far.\" Where was Cole's editor when he was writing this (rather than, say \"My research project was interesting--I was conducting x. But it demanded far more concentration from me than anything I had done before it\" or any other variation on the sentence that doesn't involve nonsense (how can a 'level of detail' be intricate?) and barbarous (why put 'level of detail' before 'it demanded')? A similar example: \"In that room, into which always seemed to flow a gentle and cool northern light, he was surrounded by art from a lifetime of collecting\". Why is the verb before the subject of the verb in the second clause? Why is this sentence not two sentences, given that the \"In that room...\" has nothing to do with the sentence's purpose? I could go on, but will refrain. Throughout the book, Cole's prose is falsely precise (it sounds 'smart,' but is not) and cold. Then there is the constant name-dropping, which makes the book feel a bit like listening to NPR: biographies of great men (all men), combined with mentions of the fact that their works are being consumed--Tolstoy, Borges, Barthes, Mahler, El Greco, on and on and on... The book mentions almost everyone that a respectable middle-class pseudo-intellectual should have read, listened to or seen. And with only one exception, nobody actually talks about those men or their works. This is not pretentiousness; I love pretentiousness. A pretentious book would spend fifteen pages talking about whether Mahler was an ironist. But this book is, in general, vulgar. Which is not to say that there are no deep thoughts here. There are many deep thoughts, for instance, \"to be alive, it seemed to me... was to be both original and reflection, and to be dead was to be split off, to be reflection alone.\" The characters constantly talk about, while never experiencing, injustice, whether due to race, gender, ethnicity or religion. Etc... Again, NPR. Spoilers in this paragraph: In the last twenty pages or so, Cole tries to justify all the silliness that has gone before. First, his narrator thinks about Paracelsus, whose theory of 'Signs' is meant to explain the narrative strategy: external material things can teach us about the inner realities. That is why the narrator spends so much time looking at birds. They are teaching him about himself. Second, [SPOILER ALERT!], a woman accuses the narrator of raping her. His response is to think about Nietzsche and Scaevola. Now, this will remind you that the narrator reacts to almost everything, including getting mugged, by thinking about something else. He is hiding in his thoughts, you see. You can't trust him, you see. He might even be a rapist, though you can't trust the rape-victim either. This is why the prose is so cold: because you can't trust the narrator! Even good NPR listening folks are untrustworthy, because they perceive the world in their own way and not as it really is in-itself (note: the only name the narrator doesn't drop is Kant). Stories are untrustworthy! Good liberals are untrustworthy! And now, having amused yourself with this story, reinforcing your awareness of your liberal guilt, and thus sloughing it, you can get back to the martini party. The book is saved from my toilet-paper pile by the conversation our narrator has with a young man in Belgium, who is reading Benjamin. This guy can actually talk about Benjamin, rather than just name-dropping him, which rather throws our narrator off. Cole doesn't bring up Walter's famous, and relevant, claim that \"There is no document of civilization which is not at the same time a document of barbarism\". But it should come to mind at the end of the novel. In any case, the passion this young man shows for the justice and duties of Islam were so pleasant in the face of everything else on offer that I could, conceivably, go back to re-read those pages. And if Cole ever gets an editor worthy of his ambition, I might even read his later books. ...more Stepping off the kerb So, here's the conundrum. If you are writing the sort of novel that refuses to do any of the traditional jobs of an old-fashioned novel, like fulfil a quest, solve a puzzle, achieve redemption, map a transition from one state to another, if it denies the idea of an arc of tension or indeed a plot of any kind, in fact, then how do you finish it? Here we have Julius, walking around Sebald-like in New York, then walking around in Brussels, where he vaguely thinks about looking Stepping off the kerb So, here's the conundrum. If you are writing the sort of novel that refuses to do any of the traditional jobs of an old-fashioned novel, like fulfil a quest, solve a puzzle, achieve redemption, map a transition from one state to another, if it denies the idea of an arc of tension or indeed a plot of any kind, in fact, then how do you finish it? Here we have Julius, walking around Sebald-like in New York, then walking around in Brussels, where he vaguely thinks about looking for his Oma, but undertakes practically no steps to do so, and then walking around in New York again. All artificiality of plot has been dispensed with, no cause and effect, no because, no therefore, no as a consequence. Every decision - where to turn left, how long to remain lost in thought in front of an abandoned building, whether to watch the sun set over New Jersey, or lope in the shadows on the East Side looking across to Queens - was inconsequential and was for that reason a reminder of freedom. This freedom gives play to his imagination, yes, to free associations, to openness. Strangely, (artificially?) though, the film Julius goes to, the people he meets, the troubles of the patients he treats, the demos he sees, the illegal immigrant he encounters as part of a Welcoming project, even the man who shines his shoes appear in order to foreground every atrocity of the twentieth century that you might possibly think of: internment camps, lynchings, mass exterminations, genocide, rape, hate crimes; from Haiti to the Holocaust, from Rwanda to Pol Pot, Idi Armin, Columbine, Charles Taylor, and the Russians in East Germany at the end of WW2. Once Julius got to Brussels I got an inkling that this might turn into something radically political: the juxtaposition of the information that Brussels was declared an open city during WW2, thus one that was undefended, open for the invading forces to walk in, with the debates with Farouq, a Moroccan, got me wondering if he was figuring immigrants as the invading forces, but that faded quietly away as Julius left and returned to New York and to more mundane, day-to-day forms of violence. And there's the point: all these issues are only touched lightly in passing. We forget the past and walk on, unseeing, overlooking the memorials, obliterating the past, our past. Julius is as culpable as everyman: he may be observant, but he forgets, oh man how he forgets. So, to get back to my question. How to finish? Here, a first-person narrator, telling us his story, so we can hardly have him step off the kerb in front of a yellow cab, and stop mid-sentence. The natural end would be death, but how to get there without killing off the narrator? Sebald, in The Rings of Saturn , to which book Cole is obviously paying hommage, traces a silken thread to finality through the use of that woven material for Queen Victoria's mourning dress, or for covering up the kind of paintings that might waylay a soul on its path to heaven. Cole, here, uses a masterful allegory, that involves Mahler's Ninth and Julius stepping out, not into the road, but out the wrong door of the Carnegie Hall, which leaves him suspended between sky and earth, and then taking a ferry ride that can only conjure thoughts of Charon. And even if there is no arc of action, no redemption in this novel, there is an architecture of repeated patterns, for instance in the shape of birds. In the wonderful closing metaphor: the beacon of light of the Statue of Liberty (Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me!) was fatally disorienting to thousands of storm-tossed birds. They may have dodged the cluster of skyscrapers in the city, but they lost their bearings when faced with a single monumental flame. I'm going to stop here. But have I finished , there's the question. ...more On a flight to Belgium a third of the way through the book, narrator/human palimpsest Julius muses that conversations with strangers on planes quickly turn tiresome for him, rarely rewarding his curiosity. Ironic, because that's how I began to feel about Julius's rambling digressions by about this time in the book. That's not to say that he's never insightful\u2014he's often brilliant in fact\u2014but some of the observations are quite dull, the banal profundities of everyone's late-night conversations in On a flight to Belgium a third of the way through the book, narrator/human palimpsest Julius muses that conversations with strangers on planes quickly turn tiresome for him, rarely rewarding his curiosity. Ironic, because that's how I began to feel about Julius's rambling digressions by about this time in the book. That's not to say that he's never insightful\u2014he's often brilliant in fact\u2014but some of the observations are quite dull, the banal profundities of everyone's late-night conversations in college. So I skimmed\u2014a lot. However, I am convinced that there is a purpose to the pretension here (for once!), other than a (successful) bid at impressing the likes of James Wood. Cole is carefully, patiently building an imbalance of clinical detail, at the expense of passion, and\u2014when he turns up the dial in the penultimate chapter and holds Julius's hands to the fire\u2014it is a compelling moment of supreme complexity and darkness. It is the definition of payoff. Open City is about the obscuring power of insight, and, thus, uses insight to obscure, and blindness to illuminate. At exactly the 50% point (if this was on purpose, I am so blown away!), one of the more memorable sock puppets, Farouq, cites Paul de Man: \"[de Man's] theory has to do with an insight that can actually obscure other things, that can be a blindness. And the reverse, also, how what seems blind can open up possibilities.\" I did not find Julius to be a cipher; long-winded, risk-averse, and deeply in denial, yes; but not a cipher. There is evidence that Julius's blindness does not come from some kind of spectrum disorder: his pain and borderline panic upon hearing of Dr. Saito's death, most notably. In contrast to both this book's fans and its critics, I didn't enjoy the book on a sentence to sentence level. Instead I loved the supposedly non-existent plot and characters. I enjoyed Moji very much during all of her brief appearances, and, by the end, I felt intimately Julius's regret, pain, and very human inability to be anyone other than the person he is. By the time Julius's Rhett-Butleresque comeuppance came\u2014 \"he sees through you anyway, you, the psychiatrist, the know-it-all\" \u2014my own resentment of Julius's superficial intellectual smoothness dissolved into a powerful understanding of a flawed man's embrace of ideas, art, and city as solace. ...more I rise at six from tangled sheets and open every window to the cool morning air, a breath of life after the stifling heat of the past few days. I stand on the edge of the terrace a moment and savour the chill on my skin, a refreshing tonic that gently dispels the dread of oily days. A quick glass of clear, cool water, dress, and I am out, heading for the park and the fields beyond the allotment gardens. The world feels new-made and virginal to my pounding feet in their vibrant green running shoe I rise at six from tangled sheets and open every window to the cool morning air, a breath of life after the stifling heat of the past few days. I stand on the edge of the terrace a moment and savour the chill on my skin, a refreshing tonic that gently dispels the dread of oily days. A quick glass of clear, cool water, dress, and I am out, heading for the park and the fields beyond the allotment gardens. The world feels new-made and virginal to my pounding feet in their vibrant green running shoes. Loosen those shoulders, swing those hips, flex the arms, breathe: in one-two-three, out one-two-three, in one-two-three, out one-two-three. At the pond, I slow as a thrush, intent on a writhing worm, barely notices my approach. I could almost reach out and stroke that plump, creamy breast, each dark spot slightly ragged round the edges. Its bright brown eye gives me a sardonic look and the thrush is gone, the worm securely gripped in its beak. The moon still hangs in the bright orb of the sky, a half button of cloudy white against the endless, fresh-washed blue. Rabbits slowly see-saw, gently bobbing their white flashes as they escape the figure crunching towards them. They have already registered that there is no real danger there. I note with pleasure while passing that the farmer has left a wide margin alongside his field of rye for yellow and pale purple to stand proud against the green. Progress is good. My legs feel supple today, they could carry me for hours. Elated, I decide to share my pleasure; as I pass a lady walking her dog, I make an innocuous and fairly inconsequential remark about the beauty of the morning. In return, the scraggy beast at the end of its leash launches itself at my ankles, but nothing can touch me today. A hop, a skip, a wave. I do not understand her words, but recognize the apologetic tone. Yesterday was cooler, so the litter bins in the park are overflowing with the detritus of the evening before. Jackdaws and magpies, those champions in the race of adaptation, are picking through the pizza boxes. They caw a raucous complaint and lazily flap away, not far, ready to return to their squabbling feast as soon as I am gone. Back home everything is still quiet. The excavation works outside - renewing those underground utilities - have not started yet, the diggers are quiet, waiting. I put on water for tea, and pour it out into my favourite mug with the colourful rowing boats and seagulls on the side and dream of the sea... Later, I have to phone. No, I can't say, I don't know, but I'll get back to you Karen, in say half an hour? As I wait I idly pick over some of the papers on my desk, lay out the contract that needs to be signed for next term's work, file away some, throw away some. As the time ticks slowly by, my eyes light on this bright yellow cover, the book I have looked out for the next book group meeting. But it is not until September, I don't need to start it just yet..... ...more using a realist, pseudo-autobiographical style very reminiscent of sebald, the main character, Julius, wanders through an up-to-date and recognizable NYC, an accomplishment in itself, observing the marathoners and skyscrapers at columbus circle, the twin towers intact in the queens museum's diorama, conversations with cabdrivers infused with political subtext, bedbugs -- and uses that general observation to describe, repeatedly and profoundly, the immigrant's situation. maybe in fact the novel i using a realist, pseudo-autobiographical style very reminiscent of sebald, the main character, Julius, wanders through an up-to-date and recognizable NYC, an accomplishment in itself, observing the marathoners and skyscrapers at columbus circle, the twin towers intact in the queens museum's diorama, conversations with cabdrivers infused with political subtext, bedbugs -- and uses that general observation to describe, repeatedly and profoundly, the immigrant's situation. maybe in fact the novel is the first since sebald to successfully tackle our moment of simultaneous globalization and alienation without resorting to parody or genre plot or any other distancing device. and for all the meandering of its narrative, this roaming belies a close-hewed line, and the book is not really a fl\u00e2neur's accounting at all but a meditative monologue on history told to the slow-hearbeat pace of a stroll's footfall. Farouq turned to me and said, It's very busy, as you can see. Not only for all the people making New Year greetings but also for a lot of people calling home for the Eid. He gestured to the computer monitor behind him, and on it was a log of the calls ongoing in all twelve booths: Colombia, Egypt, Senegal, Brazil, France, Germany. It looked like fiction, that such a small group of people really could be making calls to such a wide spectrum of places. It's been like this for the past two days, Farouq said, and this is one of the things I enjoy about working here. It's a test case of what I believe; people can live together but still keep their own values intact. Seeing this crowd of individuals from different places, it appeals to the human side of me, and the intellectual side of me (112). the lesson here seems to be that there is less and less frequently a typical immigration story than that each immigrant has a unique tale as bizarre as it is wholly probable. and each of these, in julius's necessarily passing view, only half reveals its tangled provenance through scars and tics and layers of peeling disguise. cole shows again and again people who have been caught and hurled by history into their odd displaced places: a liberian in immigration prison, a dying english professor who had been in a japanese internment camp, rwandan dance clubbers, arab-european cafe leftists. these individuals are not always victims of history but are -- in their singularity, in their movements unreplicated by nations of others -- perhaps more uniquely aware of how history has determined their lives. and as cole's novel superbly illustrates (and as globalization intensifies) there will arguably be fewer and fewer citizens of states and more and more castaway members of diasporas. for these latter, in OPEN CITY, the question of belonging and authenticity as well as the proper and appropriate methods of political speech and protest are never far from mind. one of the most memorable characters in this regard is farouq -- who with his somewhat naive leftism plays foil to our ever-so-increasingly unreliable (and occasionally reactionary-ish) narrator. farouq is an employee at an internet cafe in brussels and from that vantage freely comments on global politics... one of the book's best provocations in fact is that it is a NYC book confronting the transforming moment zero of 9/11 by archly recounting a bar debate of arab intellectuals posturing resistance in brussels(!) ...if it wasn't so possible, it would be perfect satire. Farouq's face -- all of a sudden, it seemed, but I must have been subconsciously working on the problem -- resolved itself, and I saw a startling resemblance: he was the very image of Robert De Niro, specifically in De Niro's role as the young Vito Corleone in The Godfather II ... A famous Italian-American actor thirty years ago and an unknown Moroccan political philosopher in the present, but it was the same face. What a marvel that life repeated itself in these trivial ways, and it was something I noticed only because he hadn't shaved for a day or two... What was the meaning of De Niro's smile? He, De Niro, smiled, but one had no idea what he was smiling about. Perhaps this is why, when I first met Farouq, I had been taken aback. I had subconsciously overinterpreted his smile, connecting his face to another's, reading it as a face to be liked but feared. I had read his face as that of the young De Niro, as a charming psychopath, for this most trivial of reasons. And it was this face, not as inscrutable as I had once feared, that spoke now: For us, America is a version of Al-Qaeda. The statement was so general as to be without meaning. It had no power, and he said it without conviction. I did not need to contest it, and Khalil added nothing to it. \"America is a version of Al-Qaeda.\" It floated up with the smoke, and died. It might have meant more, weeks back, when the one speaking was still an unknown quanity. Now he had overplayed his hand, and I sensed a shift in the argument, a shift in my favor\" (121-122). near novel's end julius observes a woman davening and comments on prayer. his definition of it could easily also apply to the novel in general but especially to OPEN CITY itself -- an elegant, brainy, careful, and finally hopeful meditation: I had made some tea, and I drank it as I watched the woman pray. Others are not like us, I thought to myself, their forms are different from ours. Yet I prayed, too, I would gladly face a wall and daven, if that was what had been given to me. Prayer was, I had long settled in my mind, no kind of promise, no device for getting what one wanted out of life; it was the mere practice of presence, that was all, a therapy of being present, of giving a name to the heart's desires, the fully formed ones, the as yet formless ones (215). ______________________ a link to an interview with cole on PBS' artbeat. here's a bit: TEJU COLE: We don't experience our lives as plots. If I asked you to tell me what your last week was like, you're not really gonna give me plot. You're gonna give me sort of linked narrative. And I wanted to see how do we bring that into fiction without losing the reader. But of course, I'm not the first person to think about this. This is actually a problem that the Modernists like James Joyce and Virginia Wolfe solved pretty well. So part of my thinking was going back a little bit to re-inventing that particular wheel, which only seems innovative because most novels that are written today are being written on Jane Austen or Charles Dickens, 19th century novel. pick it up from your local independent bookstore or the library . ...more This book meandered from continent to continent. At times, I was absolutely bored despite some really beautiful and impressive passages. No one can doubt Cole's absolute command for the historical or philosophical, but as a criticism of how it appears in this text, I'm just not interested in every mundane human interaction with a stranger or old friend. Further, the plot twist in Chapter 20 didn't feel real or even remotely connected to the last 19 chapters that I had just diligently waded throu This book meandered from continent to continent. At times, I was absolutely bored despite some really beautiful and impressive passages. No one can doubt Cole's absolute command for the historical or philosophical, but as a criticism of how it appears in this text, I'm just not interested in every mundane human interaction with a stranger or old friend. Further, the plot twist in Chapter 20 didn't feel real or even remotely connected to the last 19 chapters that I had just diligently waded through. I am still questioning the twist because I feel like it's tied to some larger dialogue about memory without the protagonist having even a single moment of cognitive dissonance. His reaction left much to be desired for such a man of letters and thought. A plotless book with a plot twist! I don't doubt that the twist happened, as some have suggested in articles I read online, what I doubt, now, are Julius' other interactions in the text. I have been and am interested in Cole's nonfiction work and will continue to read it. I will also read his next title hoping he does something completely new. ...more I\u2019ve now read all three of Cole\u2019s books. I admire each of them, chiefly for the sense of place and the sense of self. Here Julius, a sophisticated psychiatry resident, wanders the streets of Manhattan and Brussels, meeting people, hearing stories and dredging up memories from his early life in Nigeria. \u201cI was the listener, the compassionate African who paid attention to the details of someone else\u2019s life and struggle.\u201d I loved the mixture of external events and internal shifts: a startling revel I\u2019ve now read all three of Cole\u2019s books. I admire each of them, chiefly for the sense of place and the sense of self. Here Julius, a sophisticated psychiatry resident, wanders the streets of Manhattan and Brussels, meeting people, hearing stories and dredging up memories from his early life in Nigeria. \u201cI was the listener, the compassionate African who paid attention to the details of someone else\u2019s life and struggle.\u201d I loved the mixture of external events and internal shifts: a startling revelation about his past that he never deals with is just as momentous as a mugging. Class and race are particularly subtle in this novel. From time to time Julius meets a fellow African or African-American man who plays up their essential \u2018brotherhood\u2019. Being biracial, he\u2019s not always sure how he feels about that. I feared this would be one of those aimless, plotless novels, but the storyline is strong enough to tie together the peripatetic setup. Favorite lines: \u201cHow petty seemed to me the human condition, that we were subject to this constant struggle to modulate the internal environment, this endless being tossed about like a cloud.\u201d \u201cWe experience life as a continuity, and only after it falls away, after it becomes the past, do we see its discontinuities. The past, if there is such a thing, is mostly empty space, great expanses of nothing, in which significant persons and events float.\u201d \u201cEach person must, on some level, take himself as the calibration point for normalcy, must assume that the room of his own mind is not, cannot be, entirely opaque to him. Perhaps this is what we mean by sanity: that, whatever our self-admitted eccentricities might be, we are not the villains of our own stories.\u201d ...more I've been meaning to read this book just forever, and I'm delighted that I finally did. On balance, it's a very lovely, very thoughtful, very soft book. \"Soft\" probably seems like a bizarre word, but I mean it in a specific way that I've never quite been able to articulate; I feel it with certain Margaret Atwood books but also with Alejandro Zambra's The Private Lives of Trees . It's a quality of stillness, of meandering\u2014when I open books like this it's as if a hush descends, and the prose unfurl I've been meaning to read this book just forever, and I'm delighted that I finally did. On balance, it's a very lovely, very thoughtful, very soft book. \"Soft\" probably seems like a bizarre word, but I mean it in a specific way that I've never quite been able to articulate; I feel it with certain Margaret Atwood books but also with Alejandro Zambra's The Private Lives of Trees . It's a quality of stillness, of meandering\u2014when I open books like this it's as if a hush descends, and the prose unfurls as if through molasses. Does this happen to anyone else? If it's not clear, this also involves a certain slowness. About 60 pages in, someone asked me the dreaded question \"What's it about?\" and I could not answer her at all. For at least the first half, it's not about much of anything; it's a long rambling wander from the vantage point of a deep thinker who relishes his solitude and can be distracted by or inclined to meditate deeply upon anything from a blind painter to a historical monument to the demigod Obatala. He meets a former professor in his apartment for an intellectual chat, goes to a picnic with some friends that is interrupted by surprise parachuters, rambles down street after street, into this gallery, that bar, this park, that restaurant, thinking and thinking and thinking all the while. In the middle of the book, he takes a trip to Brussels, and the pace picks up, but just a bit. He meets a retired female surgeon on the plane and then a fiery political philosopher working at an internet caf\u00e9; he has more conversations, more walks, some arguments, some sex. Throughout, we catch glimpses of his childhood in Nigeria, his estrangement from his family, his complicated feelings toward his ex-girlfriend, his intense life of the mind\u2014all his griefs and loves and sorrows. It's ultimately a very moving book, with ideas and perspectives I found fascinating and challenging. But it took me twice as long as it usually does to read a book of this size, partly because although once I was in it it was like floating in a sensory-deprivation tank, when I wasn't, I often found it difficult to motivate to pick it up. Here, to close, is a bit of Teju, meditating on his day and also, naturally, the entirity of the human condition: Instinctively saving a baby: a little happiness; spending time with Rwandans, the ones who survived: a little sadness; the idea of our final anonymity: a little more sadness; sexual desire fulfilled without complication: a little more happiness. And it went on like that, as thought succeeded thought. How petty seemed to me the human condition, that we were subject to this constant struggle to modulate the internal environment, this endless being tossed about like a cloud, Predictably, the mind noted that judgment, too, and assigned it its place: a little sadness. Gives you the chills a little bit, right? Or at least it does me. ...more Reading the wonderful Open City by <---A>Teju Cole</---A> I cannot imagine what a non-New Yorker (meaning, of course, in the elitist New York way, someone from New York City) how someone not from the city would react to this novel or how they would even process it. I have walked exactly the streets the character has walked, visited the places he has visited, even experienced the same reactions to closure of stores like Tower Records on 65th Street. I experienced my own past as much as I experienced the narra Reading the wonderful Open City by Teju Cole I cannot imagine what a non-New Yorker (meaning, of course, in the elitist New York way, someone from New York City) how someone not from the city would react to this novel or how they would even process it. I have walked exactly the streets the character has walked, visited the places he has visited, even experienced the same reactions to closure of stores like Tower Records on 65th Street. I experienced my own past as much as I experienced the narrator's story. Cole evokes the city powerfully, viscerally; it was profoundly moving, exciting, and satisfying for me, although it did interfere with any \"objective\" experience of the book I might lay claim to. But that question of \"objectivity\" is one I think is confronted continually in this book How we can know the mind of others or even our mind is problematic, even for an \"expert\" like Julius who is a psychiatrist. I admire Cole's precision of writing and his presentation of characters, each of whom becomes fully present in a few strokes, and the dispassionate way the protagonist presents himself. He is a somewhat cold person (despite being a psychiatrist) or at least someone who has cut himself off from his more intense emotions. He writes of his meeting with the girl who becomes his girl friend and then his ex (what seems to be the precipitating cause of the books & his endless walks around the city), \"Perhaps she fell in love with the idea of myself that I presented in that story. I was the listener, the compassionate African who paid attention to the details of someone else's life and struggle. I had fallen in love with that idea myself.\" It seems that through his walks, his travels, his casual (and once violent) interactions, Julius (the narrator) is trying to weave the tapestry that is himself and his life, repair the rips caused by his father's death, his estrangement from his mother, his limited relationship with his grandmother, and bring into meaning his varied background and his present life. His childhood in Nigeria, his boarding school, his losses, his travels to Belgium, his life in NYC, his mother's harsh & largely unspoken experiences of life in post-WWII Germany, he takes all these fragments and lays them out as he walks the streets of a fragmented, post-9/11 city. It feels that he is trying to bring them together, somewhat in the same way that the Cloisters brought the stones of Europe together and recreated a medieval monastery in which hang the famous unicorn tapestries. However, we learn that there are rips in the fabric of his life that he himself inflicted and it is left unclear as to whether he will or can repair them in any way. The book delivers its shocks obliquely but I ultimately felt that I had read two books-one the story of my city and the emotional relationship one has with one's home and the other the story of Julius and his experience of the world, which turned out to be profoundly different in content from my own. It is the skill of Teju Cole that made this dual experience possible. It is an odd feeling to read about the abstract and yet personal experience of how we see ourselves as the heroes of our own lives and then see how it plays out in another's. But for more information on that point, you'll have to read the book yourself. Not a surprise to say I loved this book. So I'll close with some quotes I particularly enjoyed although it was hard to choose from the many ones I relished. Read them if you like or read the book. I'd love to hear from others if their knowledge or lack of knowledge of the city impacted their reading. Other quotes \"I leaned the art of listening from him, and the ability to trace out a story from what was omitted. Of an artist whose paintings he finds compelling (seen on a visit to the Museum of Folk Art), there is a \"narrative around blindness\" but not deafness; the artist's deafness \"made him an outsider\" and led to the creation of \"images...imbued with what that long silence had taught him: concentration, the suspension of time, an unobtrusive wit.\" -there is a feeling of stillness, of silence to this book, perhaps because of a stagnation at the core of the protagonist, a profound alienation from himself as well as his family and the world around him --\"If you're too loyal to your own suffering, you forget that others suffer, too.\" --\"It was a cause, and I was distrustful of causes, but it was also a choice, and I found my admiration increasing, because I was so essentially indecisive myself.\" --Julius is spinning connections between Paracelsus, the Cloisters, and medical diagnosis-connections that ultimately lead to his specialty, psychiatry where \"diagnosis is a trickier art, because even the strongest symptoms are sometimes not visible.\" He writes, \"It is especially elusive because the source of our information about the mind is itself the mind, & the mind is able to deceive itself.\" So ultimately any Narrator is unreliable since we are, to a greater or lesser degree able to understand our own minds and how we perceive the world. ...more Open City , Teju Cole's d\u00e9but novel, is a strangely wonderful perambulatory reading experience: insightful, lyrical, decidedly modern and politically prescient. However despite it's numerous successes the overall novel feels a bit like an attempt. In Barthes' \"The Death of the Author\" he writes (which feels to me too perfect a description of the present novel to ignore): The text is a tissue of quotations drawn from innumerable centers of culture. Similar to Bouvard and P\u00e9cuchet, those eternal c Open City , Teju Cole's d\u00e9but novel, is a strangely wonderful perambulatory reading experience: insightful, lyrical, decidedly modern and politically prescient. However despite it's numerous successes the overall novel feels a bit like an attempt. In Barthes' \"The Death of the Author\" he writes (which feels to me too perfect a description of the present novel to ignore): The text is a tissue of quotations drawn from innumerable centers of culture. Similar to Bouvard and P\u00e9cuchet, those eternal copyists, at once sublime and comic and whose profound ridiculousness indicates precisely the truth, of writing, the writer can only imitate a gesture which is anterior, never original. His power is to mix writings, to counter the ones with the others, in such a way as never to rest on any one of them Often authors are discussed in terms of their \"influences\": the seams of borrowed thread which prop up at odd corners of the text: which flash a bit of foreign color, tantalize our collective literary memories. Cole's novel is very much a tapestry of these imitations. This is not to say that the novel is not well written, or unoriginal, but that what it borrows exceeds what it bears. \"Sebaldian,\" \"Proustian,\" even a bit of a Barthesian or Benjaminian (\"Benjamin isch \"? \"Benjamin ig \"?) cultural skepticism and lyrical insight: all of these influences are present, but they feel a bit to bare. Sebald's Rings of Saturn is the closest mother of Cole's Open City : But the fact is that writing is the only way in which I am able to cope with the memories which overwhelm me so frequently and so unexpectedly. If they remained locked away, they would become heavier and heavier as time went on, so that in the end I would succumb under their mounting weight. If one were to replace \"writing\" with \"walking\" it would believably be an excerpt from Cole's novel. The novel's texture is one of sinusoidal dips into memory from the present: there is little plot in the present (and in fact, little plot which directly concerns the protagonist, Julius), but a deep plenitude which lies in the past. \" Each one of us carries within himself his necropolis \" said Flaubert in a letter to George Sand, a sentiment which is manifest manifold in Open City , wherein the city may very well be the city of the dead, a necropolis of memories walking among the living: always boiling at the surface, constantly re-forming the present. To be alive, it seemed to me, as I stood there in all kinds of sorrow, was to be both original and reflection, and to be dead was to be split off, to be reflection alone. For Cole, the past is a reflection of the present: a point-for-point double, a mime. As one ages, as there are many aged and aging figures in Open City : from Prof. Saito to Dr. Mailotte, the equilibrium between the power of reflection and the power of the living self shifts: in death one is all reflection, all past and no present. In this view, we are all eased into death by our memories, and when we die out memories live without us: shadows on the edifice of time. What Cole achieves, which breaks from his strong literary traditions in Sebald and Proust, is a distinctly American flavor. The \"American issue\" is race, has always been race, and Cole's novel is concerned as much with race and Deleuzian \"difference\" as it is with memory and walking. Throughout the book there are a number of unusual conversations about race, that take place casually: in the street, at the telephone booth, etc. and Cole's view seems basically to be culminated in Farouq: \"There\u2019s always the expectation that the victimized Other is the one that covers the distance, that has the noble ideas; I disagree with this expectation.\" Throughout the many disparate narratives: of war, violence, discrimination and revolution, the policy of civil disobedience is called into question over and over, and the narrator is especially attuned to the diversity which is around him. His view of the world is one which is sinister, sometimes cruel, but which he seems vaguely removed from: not that he sees himself as an exception, but rather as an observer. He does not dwell on his own hardships very much, but rather absorbs the pasts and hardships of others. When we are confronted with an episode of his past in which he is decidedly cast as the villain, as the oppressor, as the active-aggressor, he evades it, he picks it up and drops it. His mental response to Farouq's observation on the victimized Other is: The victimized Other: how strange, I thought, that he used an expression like that in a casual conversation. The novel, for it's many strong points, lacks in credulity of dialogue, at least for those of us whose days are not filled with metaphysical conversations with strangers on airplanes and subways (I doubt many of my subway companions could pronounce Deleuze, let alone carry an extended discussion on him - but maybe I take a lower-brow subway than most). Cole's novel at it's best is when he is walking around, thinking to himself, communing with his memories and his active senses (particularly auricular), his musings and meanderings in the same stride with no destination. The novel is prescient in many ways: political, social, psychological, but it's epiphanies and flourishes of style lack consistency, lack rhythm: Cole attempts to fit in too much, and his own diversions are occasionally his undoing. However, some of his observations are tremendously moving: Perhaps this is what we mean by sanity: that, whatever our self-admitted eccentricities might be, we are not the villains of our own stories. In fact, it is quite the contrary: we play, and only play, the hero, and in the swirl of other people\u2019s stories, insofar as those stories concern us at all, we are never less than heroic. Who, in the age of television, hasn\u2019t stood in front of a mirror and imagined his life as a show that is already perhaps being watched by multitudes? The spectacular media loves to remind us that ours is the age of narcissism, spectacle, illusion . I can think of no more astute way to define our modern normalcy than a self-styled heroism, a moral impunity, and a constant flirtation with the dream of celebrity. What is often lost in our modern era is the self-communion, the walks about town, the mental and psychological ordering and re-ordering which we must do when we are humbly ourselves: when we are Odysseus, but Odysseus in Ogygian exile. Julius is often alone within himself, even in crowds he is the isolated observer: but his spectatoriship is false, a defense against his own memories which at turns haunt and amuse him. He retreats into the memories of others, into larger-than-self issues such as race, war and oppression, to escape the tiny daemon of his own villainy. As humans we escape into routine, into obsessions and compulsions which distract us, which we feel better inform us: for Julius walking through New York City (and briefly, Brussels), or observing auspices in the migrations of birds, for Bellow's Herzog it is letter-writing; we all have our retreats, our ticks which mark time for us, keeping us within our bounds of normalcy. Julius's New York is alive for him with details, small horrors, small miracles: the City is alive with change, blood pulsing beneath the surface, ever changing and ever maintaining it's identity like Argo's ship. We are all Argo's ship: we must change, we must shed our sorrows, we must outgrow our pleasures, but we must remain ourselves: we must not shed our memories of what we are, of what created us and of what we have created, or we become wherries whirling in the open sea, lost and unprotected. ...more It's here. Teju Cole's novel, Open City, published by Random House, launches today in bookstores and through online vendors, to numerous rave and perceptive reviews. That will be no surprise to readers of my blog, The Cassandra Pages, who've been privileged from time to time to read Teju's essays here, illustrated with his photographs. I am absolutely thrilled about the publication of this debut novel (those of us who read Every Day is For the Thief know that he previously wrote a novella.) But re It's here. Teju Cole's novel, Open City, published by Random House, launches today in bookstores and through online vendors, to numerous rave and perceptive reviews. That will be no surprise to readers of my blog, The Cassandra Pages, who've been privileged from time to time to read Teju's essays here, illustrated with his photographs. I am absolutely thrilled about the publication of this debut novel (those of us who read Every Day is For the Thief know that he previously wrote a novella.) But regardless of marketing talk, and even regardless of my close friendship with the author, I feel confident in saying that Open City is a hugely accomplished novel that, I predict and hope, will mark the formal debut of a formidable literary career. I was fortunate to be able to read early chapters in draft form, and then the entire book in manuscript. Open City is not a plot-driven novel, though there is a dark story that gradually emerges. Julius, the protagonist, is an emotionally-distant psychiatry resident in a New York hospital, and also an immigrant: the son of a German mother and African father. In order to shake off the work of his days, he takes to wandering the streets of the city at night. In luminous prose we follow his mind as he seeks to make connections between himself and the places he visits, as well as observing his strange disconnection to emotions and people: his former girlfriend, his neighbors, people he encounters. Only in his relationship to an aged Japanese professor do we find glimmers of a different possibility: a warmth and mutual interest that almost approach tenderness. Parts of the book also take place in Brussels and in Lagos; and in all these descriptions of urban places and human encounters, both brief and extended, we are drawn into Julius' brilliant obsession with facts and history that has already reminded many reviewers of W.G. Sebald, at the same time as we ponder what appears more and more to be a self-imposed, even protective, psychological distance: why? What is he escaping or blotting out, and what does this say about the state of all immigrants, particularly in today's America? As alien as Julius' character is to my own, I found him completely believable. The book's dialogue is vibrantly written, and the descriptive passages beautiful and full of telling detail, all of which advance the story even though its movement is not always apparent: a subtlety that is actually more true to life than the exaggeration of plot and character of most novels and films we've come to take for granted. For me, the greatest accomplishment of this book is there, in the writing itself: the use of language, and most particularly, the control of narrative tone. Not only does Teju arrive on the New York literary scene with a first novel of great maturity, but he's doing so with a narrative voice that is quiet, meditative, and open. By open I mean that rather than filling his sentences and our minds with cleverness or dazzle, with fast-paced plot and action, with the breathlessness that mirrors our frantic, modern, western lives, he has left space -- much like the rests in music -- that allow the words to breathe and the reader to think. Frankly, this is not the fashion, in any of the arts today. But Teju has stepped back from the front of the stage, and written in his own way. I admire that, and know that it is neither the easy nor certain path. This type of prose can only emerge from deep sensitivity, silence, thought, and great attention to the craft of writing. Teju, we all wish you the very best today: for Open City, and for wherever your wanderings, pen in hand, take you in the future. Thank you for the gift of your words. ...more The Book Report: The annus horribilis of Julius, a Nigerian psych resident in Manhattan. He is estranged from his mother, his only surviving parent; never knew his German maternal grandmother; is alone and adrift in the cold (too cold for his tropical self) and cruel city. He responds to his recent loss of a girlfriend to the lures of San Francisco by walking. He lives in Morningside Heights, a small college town on Manhattan's far Upper West Side; he works his last year of residency at Columbia The Book Report: The annus horribilis of Julius, a Nigerian psych resident in Manhattan. He is estranged from his mother, his only surviving parent; never knew his German maternal grandmother; is alone and adrift in the cold (too cold for his tropical self) and cruel city. He responds to his recent loss of a girlfriend to the lures of San Francisco by walking. He lives in Morningside Heights, a small college town on Manhattan's far Upper West Side; he works his last year of residency at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, one of the city's medical gems; he attends a concerts of music I'd pay money to avoid (Mahler! PURCELL! *shudder*); and he walks. His ramblings take him to every part of Manhattan, later also Brussels where he spends a month looking quite haphazardly for his probably dead German grandmother whom he does not find; his trained ear allows him to listen to text and subtext in his many conversations with many and various people of most every ethnicity these famously open cities have to offer. He is, in Christopher Isherwood's very apt phrase, a camera (\"I am a camera with its shutter open, quite passive, recording not thinking....\"); we are never treated to a view of the man holding the camera, but rather we are in the camera as he swings it about. In the end, there are no actions to report of Julius, but he makes up for his passivity with his introspection, and his clearly flawed impassivity to the emotional realities of others. My Review: I had no idea this book was coming to me. In a truly random act, Random House's Random House imprint delivered me a signed copy of the book, with the editor's card (thank you, kind sir! Nice to get a gift from someone I don't know!) and a photocopied rave review of the book from The New Yorker. I read the first 10pp anyway, since The New Yorker and I almost never agree on books. I was hooked. I was claustrophobic and annoyed and hooked. I had no idea books like this, the truly interior novels of the nouvelle roman ilk, were still able to be published in the USA. I mentioned above that we never, ever leave the camera that is Julius's head; all experiences are filtered through his eyes, heard with his ears. It's actually physically confining, this technique; like being tied up and read to. NOT a favorite activity of mine, for the record; either of them. It's a species of intimacy that I find quite discomfiting. But it works here because the narrator is so completely unable to be anywhere but here, think about any time but now; his excursions into memory are forced, and intentionally so (I think; Mr. Cole and I aren't acquainted, so I impute motives to him on no basis but my eyes). Anooyingly, Julius is not very good at contextualizing his world. This is the risk an author runs in writing from inside the tightest and narrowest of boxes, the human skull. Of course, no sane person runs around through the day contextualizing his or her own story, so that's hardly a mark against the author's fidelity to his vision. But it makes Julius a little less of a forceful presence and more of a miasmic infestation in his own book. I was left feeling that the bedbugs (horrible bloodsucking little fiends) resembled the narrator a little too closely. Both are simply *there* and the fact of them is meant to be enough to set action rolling. I mildly disagree, but that's neither here nor there in evaluating the book's merits. And merits it has. The prose is begulingly poetic. The lushness of description would feel out-of-timely off-putting were it not for the sense of inevitability and rightness the descriptions provide. The structure of the book (the hardest personal and professional year of a residency, that last one) isn't in any way innovative, but it's used to excellent effect. Julius, based on reading this book, seems like the sort of man who would be interesting to run into on his walks around Manhattan. I suspect the same would be true of Mr. Cole. Whatever force impelled the author to write this book, however the shock to his system that's the sine qua non of bringing forth such a sustained and elaborate feat of craftsmanship was delivered, it's my hope that another will be delivered soon. In the meantime, I'd suggest investing in this book will prove a winner for most sophisticated readers. ...more Teju Cole takes us into the mind of \"Julius,\" the narrator throughout the entire journey that is Open City. Right from the onset one thing rings clear: Teju Cole's masterful use of words and phrases to poetic effect. And this perhaps is the strongest asset of the novel. I enjoyed some of the themes touched on through some of Julius's interactions (e.g. classism, racism, the power of propaganda). There were some beautiful contrasts (e.g. Robert DeNiro's smile and Farouq), and some great observati Teju Cole takes us into the mind of \"Julius,\" the narrator throughout the entire journey that is Open City. Right from the onset one thing rings clear: Teju Cole's masterful use of words and phrases to poetic effect. And this perhaps is the strongest asset of the novel. I enjoyed some of the themes touched on through some of Julius's interactions (e.g. classism, racism, the power of propaganda). There were some beautiful contrasts (e.g. Robert DeNiro's smile and Farouq), and some great observations (e.g. past influencers like Fela Kuti having \"something in them awakened after seeing the worst that America could do to its marginalized peoples\" and New York City's past history with the slave trade). The novel also brought back some past time memories for me when Julius recounts some of his experiences at home living in Nigeria (e.g. saving the minerals for special occasions, etc). And the novel does have some funny moments (e.g. the ending of the bed bug saga). But for all its good points, I also felt the novel lacked alot of depth and character development. For example, he kept bringing up his meetings with Professor Saito, but we never got to see any real bond develop between the two, or between Julius and any character for that matter, so it was hard for me to get invested in the worlds and interactions Teju Cole created (if Julius doesn't seem to care, why should I?). Also, the novel did not leave me with a sense of destination. What's the point of it all? Just listening to Julius go on about his observations on every little thing? Beautiful as Teju Cole's writing is, I began to get bored and getting through the book seemed more of a challenge than fun for that reason. I thought after reading most of the novel, how great it would have been if there was a plot-line guiding the main character's excursions (e.g. Julius could have been trying to solve an international riddle, or hot on the trail of a musician he loved that suddenly vanished...something to push the story along and build anticipation rather than simply the musings of an upper crust medical student. Nonetheless, I thought the prose throughout the book was absolutely beautiful, probably the most skilled use of grammar I have ever read to date, and the entire reading experience felt like watching a movie with excellent actors but no plot. The book is saved by the poetic and crafty use of language, and some of the social/historical themes covered. ...more 'Open City' has been showered with five star reviews - and Cole has received numerous awards for it. Such lavish praise (almost) weighs heavily on you as a reader, you feel guilty - flawed even - for not absolutely loving the book. I confess to being bored, I found Julius, the main character, a young Nigerian (half German) doctor who walks the streets of New York to unwind, unlikeable, over-earnest, he has virtually no sense of humour. There are no moments of lightness. This gets weary. My impress 'Open City' has been showered with five star reviews - and Cole has received numerous awards for it. Such lavish praise (almost) weighs heavily on you as a reader, you feel guilty - flawed even - for not absolutely loving the book. I confess to being bored, I found Julius, the main character, a young Nigerian (half German) doctor who walks the streets of New York to unwind, unlikeable, over-earnest, he has virtually no sense of humour. There are no moments of lightness. This gets weary. My impression is that the writer has tipped every observation he's ever had onto the carpet, and strung them together to make a novel - the 'random' characters that Julius meets are just mouthpieces for these observations, no real point, and they appear too briefly for us to care about them. I honestly find myself wishing that Julius would just go into a store and buy some groceries without having profound, weighty exchanges with whoever he finds to talk to. I want the guy in the store to say, Have a nice day, and for that to be that. Also, Julius' working life is so pushed into the margins, I didn't believe he actually is a doctor/psychiatrist (though I read that Cole himself studied medicine for a year). There are moments when you *are* engaged,the writing is immaculate if not compelling if that makes sense. I keep seeing comparisons with WG Sebald, whom I've never read, and I wonder too if you need to have appreciated Sebald to fully appreciate this novel. I've looked up Teju Cole's website and I love his photographs, just wish I could have liked the novel more. ...more Open City reminds me of a couple of things. First of all, to me the prose reads like that of Kazuo Ishiguro. Its rhythms and textures are similar and just as beautiful. Second, one of the major themes, that of a man restlessly walking the streets of New York City, brings to mind Alfred Kazin's memoir of coming of age in the '30s, A Walker in the City. Teju Cole's peripatetic protagonist, Julius, is a resident in psychiatry who wanders the city's streets in search of release from the tensions of Open City reminds me of a couple of things. First of all, to me the prose reads like that of Kazuo Ishiguro. Its rhythms and textures are similar and just as beautiful. Second, one of the major themes, that of a man restlessly walking the streets of New York City, brings to mind Alfred Kazin's memoir of coming of age in the '30s, A Walker in the City. Teju Cole's peripatetic protagonist, Julius, is a resident in psychiatry who wanders the city's streets in search of release from the tensions of work, in search, like the young Kazin, of life and the world. As you might expect, the novel's deeply meditative. Julius reflects on many things as he wanders the neighborhoods or rides the subway, learning from what he sees: immigration, the various definitions of sanity, death and burial, slavery, and the influences of music. Indeed, the overall tone of the novel might be described as dirge-like, a lamentation. That's not to say the book doesn't have bright moments. Some of the imagery is astonishing, like that of the flow of generations through the eye of a needle seen as subway. Cole might be hanging onto the staid coattails of T. S. Eliot a bit, but I give him that because he can write like silver. Still, the beauty is that dark, stark kind Emily Dickinson could write, finding music in crepuscular tones. The music begins in the first chapter when Julius hears a recording of Mahler's Das Lied von der Erbe in a store. It continues through the last chapter which finds him at a performance of Mahler's final symphony, the Ninth, composed when he realized he was near death, and as a result is very somber and shadowed. In this sad air, following the funereal steps of a reflective man walking the streets, the novel resonates with the melancholy of Mahler and the end of life, end of novel. At the close Julius is still wandering without resolution though still learning. His searching and the novel are open-ended because it's an open city. ...more A peripatetic meditation. Walk along with Julian as he wanders the streets of New York (and also at one point Brussels), musing about art, music, architecture, politics and race relations, history, nature, the immigrant experience, the patients he\u2019s seen as a psychiatric resident at a NY hospital, his childhood in Nigeria, mental illness and sanity. He has conversations with friends, draws character sketches of people he encounters in his day-to-day life, relays their various stories, and keeps A peripatetic meditation. Walk along with Julian as he wanders the streets of New York (and also at one point Brussels), musing about art, music, architecture, politics and race relations, history, nature, the immigrant experience, the patients he\u2019s seen as a psychiatric resident at a NY hospital, his childhood in Nigeria, mental illness and sanity. He has conversations with friends, draws character sketches of people he encounters in his day-to-day life, relays their various stories, and keeps an eye out on his vacation for his \u201cona\u201d (grandmother) whom he\u2019s lost touch with, but whom he believes may be in Brussels. I don\u2019t know NYC at all and I enjoyed this. I imagine those who know and love New York may like it even more. The voice is intelligent and the prose deeply descriptive and rhythmic. (view spoiler) [Toward the end there is a startling revelation through an encounter with someone from Julian\u2019s past that cast doubt on all I\u2019d come to believe about him. At first I wasn\u2019t sure if it wasn\u2019t perhaps a red herring or deliberately ambiguous story that we might be able to interpret more than one way (thereby saving me from condemning our hero). I have a willingness, even a fond regard for ambiguity in literature, mirroring as it does the often-murky circumstances of real life. There seemed to be a little wiggle-room for interpretation, but the more I thought about it, the more narrow this gap became, and I had to finally accept, if one is on the look-out for it, there is a lot of precedent for doubting Julian\u2019s veracity and self-awareness. A second read of this (or this spoiler paragraph) will, I think, yield a very different perspective and reading experience. Nevertheless, in spite of any indecisiveness about Julian\u2019s character, (hide spoiler) ] the prose is indisputably lovely. I won\u2019t try to quote anything here, as a true appreciation of it requires the cumulative effect of multiple lines or several paragraphs, but it is indeed a treat for those who enjoy fine writing of a quiet, contemplative sort. ...more I've ingested 180 pages this weekend and have been struck spellbound. Yes, the influence of Sebald pervades, but the book I am most reminded of is Zone by Mathias Enard. It was the NYTBR which brought this seminal work to my attention. It is staggering, it is the deft employment of a inchoate mirror to our fractured lives. \"New York City worked itself into my life at walking pace...\" This reads like an invitation to join an exploration of the place, its sounds and atmospheres, seen through the eyes of Julius, narrator of Teju Cole's debut novel, OPEN CITY. And it is! Julius is a German-Nigerian immigrant and works as a resident doctor in a NYC psychiatric clinic. As we follow him, meandering - initially aimlessly - through the streets in his neighbourhood and beyond, our eyes and minds are opened to much more than \"New York City worked itself into my life at walking pace...\" This reads like an invitation to join an exploration of the place, its sounds and atmospheres, seen through the eyes of Julius, narrator of Teju Cole's debut novel, OPEN CITY. And it is! Julius is a German-Nigerian immigrant and works as a resident doctor in a NYC psychiatric clinic. As we follow him, meandering - initially aimlessly - through the streets in his neighbourhood and beyond, our eyes and minds are opened to much more than the sidewalks, the brownstones, the parks and other vistas passing by at walking pace... \"Each neighbourhood of the city appeared to be made of a different substance, each seemed to have a different air pressure, a different psychic weight...\" muses Julius as he lies in bed at night, organizing what he has seen during his walk,\"until the forms began to morph into each other and assume abstract shapes unrelated to the real city\". At times, Julius describes his environment with photographic clarity and precision, at others he blurs his vision, and looking into his own \"mind's eye\", delves deep into thought and memory: reflecting on historical events, his personal life, music, philosophy, literature and politics...\". What evolves as we are drawn deeper and deeper into the narration and the narrator's mind is much more than another \"stream-of-consciousness\" story or another literary introduction to New York City and some of its illustrious people... Cole's book is a compelling example of \"memory and reality merging into one\": part city portrait, real and imagined, part journey into history and personal life, fused with insightful recollections on people he encounters and their perspectives on life in all its facets. It may be his professional training and/or his personal history - growing up in Nigeria in a bi-racial family - Julius appears to always maintain his reserve and detachment, looking at his environment through the lens of the outsider. Somebody calls him a \"journeyer\", a \"visionary\", someone who \"has traveled far\". And he has, of course. His reflections on the aftermath of the destruction of the WTC or his discussion of the situation in the Middle East with Farouq, a North African immigrant in Brussels, are remarkable as they are affecting. But he is also a loner; having lost one girlfriend, he longs for another, no longer \"available\". He comes closest in his personal relations to his old professor, Dr. Saito. Yet, he is also restless, facing \"this constant struggle to modulate the internal environment, this endless being tossed about like a cloud.\" While he is good at discovering the hidden stories in others, his own secret, if that is what it was, remains a mystery, caught between fact and fiction. Teju Cole's book is exquisitely written, descriptive and imaginative: brilliant in many ways. But don't look for plot or straight forward narration. Go with the flow of the walks, and you get carried by their rhythms. Cole is also a professional photographer and one could easily imagine photographs inserted into the text, \u00e0 la W.G. Sebald. There are other parallels Between OPEN CITY and Sebald's genre-transcending novels. Do you need to know NYC to enjoy the walks with Julius? Not really, although, having walked along some of the streets and places, I feel motivated to return, book in hand. ...more It was impossible for me to read this book without thinking of W.G. Sebald, partially because the blurb on the back cover referenced it, maybe, and partially because I have Sebald on the brain, but mostly because Open City really is a book about walking, cultural landscape, and historical resonance, ala Rings of Saturn - not a bad model for a novel, really, although a hard one to pull off, and Cole does an admirable job of it. The walking is well described - although I have an admittedly high to It was impossible for me to read this book without thinking of W.G. Sebald, partially because the blurb on the back cover referenced it, maybe, and partially because I have Sebald on the brain, but mostly because Open City really is a book about walking, cultural landscape, and historical resonance, ala Rings of Saturn - not a bad model for a novel, really, although a hard one to pull off, and Cole does an admirable job of it. The walking is well described - although I have an admittedly high tolerance for this sort of thing - the history, which focuses on the situation of immigrant (mostly African) peoples in New York and Brussels is by and large fascinating, and the cultural landscape is, on the whole, quite effectively done, especially the descriptions of immigrants and natives in Brussels (spoiler: they have slightly different perspectives on the Belgians' treatment of Africans). What sets Cole apart from somebody like Sebald is that he includes a great deal of direct conversation between his narrator and various people he meets on his travels, which lends the book a much more natural feel than Rings of Saturn or even the Emigrants. Cole's formal innovation is much more about his slow pacing and the gradual revealing of his narrator as unreliable than any structural maneuvering, which serves his laconic narrator quite well. His pacing is excellent - as for whether he pulls off the unreliable narration, I'm not so sure. You'll probably have to decide for yourself. While I don't fault Cole for not being a more experimental writer, there's not much risk to be found here - part of what makes saves a writer like Sebald from being boring is that he's risking so much structurally that you're in constant suspense as to whether he can pull it off. One never has the sense that Cole is working very far out of his comfort zone, or ours, and that robs his insights into immigration and mistreatment of marginalized peoples - foreigners (real and perceived), the mentally ill, indigenous peoples under colonialism - of some of their power. Still, a remarkably well-written book. Recommended. ...more 4.5 stars, really...two things kept it from being five for me: a scene with Moji towards the end of the book that wasn't convincing to me and the ending itself--it left me feeling unsatisfied. I'm still thinking about it, though. Cole's prose is beautiful and easy to read...it's melancholic and meditative. The narrator seems to be an outsider observing everything around him, yet the reader never quite knows what he thinks, what he really thinks, or how he is really experiencing much of what he te 4.5 stars, really...two things kept it from being five for me: a scene with Moji towards the end of the book that wasn't convincing to me and the ending itself--it left me feeling unsatisfied. I'm still thinking about it, though. Cole's prose is beautiful and easy to read...it's melancholic and meditative. The narrator seems to be an outsider observing everything around him, yet the reader never quite knows what he thinks, what he really thinks, or how he is really experiencing much of what he tells us. Through a series of walks in New York City and Brussels, the narrator reflects and remembers, allowing the reader to pick up on the threads of his life. One major theme I especially enjoyed was that of identity for people outside the majority, especially immigrants, whether in the U.S. or Europe. The narrator never once truly engaged any of his conversation partners with personal details, which I thought was an interesting choice on Cole's part...the reader knows that the narrator has an interesting perspective as a person with mixed German and Nigerian parentage, as well as that of a non-white immigrant to the U.S., but some of the people he engages in conversation know none of this about him...or rather, they know only that he grew up in Nigeria. The reader moves in and out of the periphery, experiencing the narrator's perspective at times, and then moving back to observe the narrator. At least this is how i experienced this book. The melancholic, meditative mood of the book was also punctuated with foreboding for me...i felt the buildup to events and situations that i expected to have a profound emotional impact on the narrator. These often felt like a bit of a punch to the gut, but perplexing as well, because I never quite knew how the narrator processed these events once they happened. One sentence at the end of the book really captured this sense for me: Nevertheless, the sense persisted that something more troubling was at work. And so I'll leave it at that for now. ...more Julius, a Nigerian immigrant, comes to America and becomes a psychiatrist. He also focuses his acute eyes on the City of New York as he habitually walks her streets. He\u2019s a classic introvert who\u2019s more comfortable listening than talking. Cole\u2019s writing is engaging as he ties his creation, Julius, to Coetzee\u2019s ubiquitous character Elizabeth Costello and it\u2019s a valid comparison in many ways. Both protagonists are perpetual visitors even as they live for years in one place. Neither Julius nor Eliza Julius, a Nigerian immigrant, comes to America and becomes a psychiatrist. He also focuses his acute eyes on the City of New York as he habitually walks her streets. He\u2019s a classic introvert who\u2019s more comfortable listening than talking. Cole\u2019s writing is engaging as he ties his creation, Julius, to Coetzee\u2019s ubiquitous character Elizabeth Costello and it\u2019s a valid comparison in many ways. Both protagonists are perpetual visitors even as they live for years in one place. Neither Julius nor Elizabeth seems to become a part of their environments. They remain clear eyed outsiders. They also share a penchant for philosophy in fact there\u2019s not much plot in this book. Julius reflects on his African upbringing, his trip to Brussels where he has reason to believe his maternal grandmother lives or lived though he does nothing to find her, and then of course there\u2019s his North American sojourn where he sits at his apartment window listening to classical music, watching the birds migrant and thinking. He loves to wander the city observing people, looking at the architecture, looking for incongruities, and having odd encounters with strangers. There is something strangely fascinating about Cole\u2019s book. Just as Coatzee threads Costello through many of his books I see Cole doing the same with his Julius. I look forward to reading more from this fresh new writing voice. Cole has much to say about politics, human relationships, art, racism, the interplay between place and the individuals, classical music though he leaves two key mysteries dangling at the end of the book which marred my complete enjoyment of his book. I hope this is an excuse for him to write a follow up book. 4.5/5 I'm reading a section from this book where the protagonist travels to Belgium and as my (incredibly) vague tie in someone shared this clip with me that I love: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EYAUa... ...more This was book #9 for me on the tourney of books, and the one that i had to stop reading halfway through while I was on vacation because it was depressing the hell out of me. Yet another difficult book: on the one hand, the stream of consciousness is done well here, and the way the narrators thoughts meander arnound and in and out of things is very effective. On the other hand, this is a narrator who is... difficult to connect with - he is SO solitary, his interests SO specific and refined... it This was book #9 for me on the tourney of books, and the one that i had to stop reading halfway through while I was on vacation because it was depressing the hell out of me. Yet another difficult book: on the one hand, the stream of consciousness is done well here, and the way the narrators thoughts meander arnound and in and out of things is very effective. On the other hand, this is a narrator who is... difficult to connect with - he is SO solitary, his interests SO specific and refined... it made him seem less than human. In addition, there is something in the end of the book that colors the whole thing for me, and not in a good way. As the book went on, I found myself liking the narrator less and less, found him more and more solipsistic, less and less capable of understanding or connecting to other people (which would seem like a problem for a psychiatrist). I will admit that I sometimes have trouble with post-9/11 new york books - i am sort of drawn to them, but also highly critical. In some ways, I appreciated the narrator's over-intellectualization of things. But again, I just felt like I had no way into connecting with the characters. Critics have accused the Marriage Plot of being overly obsessed with literary theory, but the ways in which the characters interpreted and grappled with the theory was interesting, gave the theory life and made the characters more interesting. Here, even though theories are sometimes debated and often contemplated, they just seem to suck life from the story. ...more Open City is many things: a first-person account of an outsider's experience; a history of New York City's buried past; the sometimes astute but increasingly unreliable impressions of an essayistic narrator. Cole allows himself permission to engage the conversations of our era: how non-religious Muslims see a post-9/11 world; how an elderly gay man reflects upon the end of his life; what an incarcerated refugee has to say about America. But these are all just daubs of paint on a vast, disarrayed Open City is many things: a first-person account of an outsider's experience; a history of New York City's buried past; the sometimes astute but increasingly unreliable impressions of an essayistic narrator. Cole allows himself permission to engage the conversations of our era: how non-religious Muslims see a post-9/11 world; how an elderly gay man reflects upon the end of his life; what an incarcerated refugee has to say about America. But these are all just daubs of paint on a vast, disarrayed canvas. What Open city is not, to my reckoning, is a novel. There's no narrative momentum; no protagonist moving toward change; no sense that we're taking part in this journey because the author has designed an artistic experience to help explain the chaos of our age. Moments flare brightly and then vanish; feelings surface and are submerged; and in the final pages, a nearly meaningful epiphany is undercut with a final paragraph or two of tangential statistics. One is left with the impression that Cole hasn't the interest (or skill?) to develop the themes and situations he sets in motion. Isn't that what we want novels to do? Put some order on the chaos of living? ...more Read this again because I will go see the author speak on Wednesday. Still really love the walking bits and get a little distracted in the other bits. Cole's writing about music is stunning as well. His writing is fluid, and I'm looking forward to what comes next. When you read an author for the first time, you look for him. Where is his perspective? Is he in this protagonist? Does he like this protagonist? Are you and the author in agreement about what the protagonist is like? If you're not, the book will annoy you sooner or later. I don't like Open City's narrator. Julius is pretentious and self-aggrandizing. Each person must, on some level, take himself as the calibration point for normalcy, must assume that the room of his own mind is not, cannot be, When you read an author for the first time, you look for him. Where is his perspective? Is he in this protagonist? Does he like this protagonist? Are you and the author in agreement about what the protagonist is like? If you're not, the book will annoy you sooner or later. I don't like Open City's narrator. Julius is pretentious and self-aggrandizing. Each person must, on some level, take himself as the calibration point for normalcy, must assume that the room of his own mind is not, cannot be, entirely opaque to him. Perhaps this is what we mean by sanity: that, whatever our self-admitted eccentricities might be, we are not the villains of our own stories. In fact, it is quite the contrary: we play, and only play, the hero, and in the swirl of other people's stories, insofar as those stories concern us at all, we are never less than heroic. Julius casts himself as the hero in this story. He tells us about the time he saved a drowning boy. He heroically catches some plastic sheeting about to fall onto a young mother. But there are weird gaps in his narrative. He skips some parts; he seems unclear on some events. An open city, like Brussels in World War II, is one that's abandoned defensive efforts. March right in and take over; please don't shoot anyone. Julius is an immigrant psychiatrist of Nigerian / German ancestry who likes to take walks through New York City. People seem to enjoy telling him their stories. Their stories always seem to include violence, alienation, pain. No one was born here. Cole says he \"wanted to capture a little bit of that siege mentality and that sense of invasion happening on several levels, historically, psychologically.\" New York is constantly invaded. It offers no defense, but it inexorably assimilates. It's like The Blob. I don't think this metaphor completely works for Cole, but I get it. I don't know if you got the idea from the quote above, but Cole's writing is incredible. It's so pellucid that I had to look up that word in order to use it. It's distinct, transparent, graceful: Cole never says more or less than he needs to. It's astonishing that this is his debut(-ish) novel. It won a ton of awards, and deservedly. I suspect that Teju Cole is sortof a big deal. ...more This was the most perfect book I have read in a long, long time until I reached the end. The tone of Cole's voice, his honesty and integrity, the vantage point of his view of the world, the subtle lyricism of his words, the generosity of spirit beneath the surface along with his critical eye towards the true injustices. it all added up to a tremendous first novel. Cole captured the rhythms of New York and the sites and sounds we all know there so well, neighborhood by neighborhood. He revealed hi This was the most perfect book I have read in a long, long time until I reached the end. The tone of Cole's voice, his honesty and integrity, the vantage point of his view of the world, the subtle lyricism of his words, the generosity of spirit beneath the surface along with his critical eye towards the true injustices. it all added up to a tremendous first novel. Cole captured the rhythms of New York and the sites and sounds we all know there so well, neighborhood by neighborhood. He revealed his depth of international understanding during his protagonist's travels in Europe, his memories of Africa, his parents and their German and Nigerian background, his grandmother in Belgium. He covered vast historical territory, yet the book is anchored in the beat of the present, and as you grow to trust his voice, page by page, you realize you would gladly travel with him anywhere he would care to go. He has been compared to W. G. Sebald and it is an apt comparison, but Cole opens an insightful window into the 21st century where Sebald halted at the end of the 20th. The migration patterns of the world became like birds in Cole's talented hands that suddenly formed patterns we could decipher in the complicated air we live in. His erudition in so many subjects: art, literature, world history, art history, medicine, and his eye as a photographer cast a secondary spell in each scene. You can see how much I was enjoying reading it! I wrote all of the above before I reached the last chapter and though it does not void my feelings about the rest of the book, there is a startling revelation and that has left me feeling betrayed by the voice I had come to trust. It turns out that was Cole's point, and in various interviews he articulately discusses the whole matter in this Yale magazine: http://linkis.com/research.yale.edu/7... Unlike the weak surprise of 'lack of atonement' in the last chapter of Atonement, the casual detachment about a cruelty and the narrator's blindness to it disappoints me in the deepest reservoirs of character---not the characters of books, but the generosity of spirit that gives a person character. I look forward to Cole's first book, Every Day is for the Thief, to be reprinted---described as a Sebaldian combination of photos with his lyric narration. This book has my my qualified heartfelt and thoughtful recommendation. ...more Open City is an astonishing achievement, all the more so because it is a debut novel. Those who prefer linear plots with clearly-delineated story arcs and concrete plots are likely to be disappointed; this is a book where themes, not plot lines, reign supreme. And what themes they are! A young Nigerian psychiatric resident named Julius walks the New York city streets aimlessly at night, criss-crossing both territory and social strata, meeting some of the anonymous masses, discovering more and mo Open City is an astonishing achievement, all the more so because it is a debut novel. Those who prefer linear plots with clearly-delineated story arcs and concrete plots are likely to be disappointed; this is a book where themes, not plot lines, reign supreme. And what themes they are! A young Nigerian psychiatric resident named Julius walks the New York city streets aimlessly at night, criss-crossing both territory and social strata, meeting some of the anonymous masses, discovering more and more about the human condition and his own tenuous connection to it. \u201cHow petty seemed to me the human condition, that we were subject to this constant struggle to modulate the internal environment, this endless being tosses about like a cloud,\u201d he thinks. \u201cPredictably, the mind noted that judgment, too, and assigned it its place: a little sadness.\u201d As Julius \u2013 whose professional mission is to save the mind from madness and chaos \u2013 navigates his past and present, he recognizes that life is not, in actuality, a continuity but \u201cmostly open space, great expanses of nothing, in which significant persons and events float.\u201d In accessible and beautifully-wrought stream-of-consciousness, he revisits the Nigeria of his youth, his lost (to him) girlfriend, his old oma \u2013 a German refugee \u2013 who may be alive in Brussels, a favored and dying professor. This fiercely intelligent book touches briefly on so many topics: the final symphony of Mahler, the Mideast conflict, the alienation of the outsiders, the bedbug epidemic, the roots of psychiatry, the city of Heliopolis, the slave burying ground in NYC, the nature of violence, and so much more. Indeed, Teju Cole achieves his promise of allowing significant persons and events to float to the surface, arresting the attention of the reader, and then relinquishing the spotlight. It\u2019s a stunning meditation on culture, life, and isolation. ...more Another really fine novel of perambulation! Seamlessly written and easy-to-read but -- paradoxically -- requires (and deserves) a great deal of attention and patience. Would have read this in a short day or two, had I not been working on a super-difficult index that is swallowing up much of my time and mental energy. A less-disjointed reading would have strengthened my impressions and allowed the full force of the novel to act upon me. So many passages to ruminate on, but here is one chilling pa Another really fine novel of perambulation! Seamlessly written and easy-to-read but -- paradoxically -- requires (and deserves) a great deal of attention and patience. Would have read this in a short day or two, had I not been working on a super-difficult index that is swallowing up much of my time and mental energy. A less-disjointed reading would have strengthened my impressions and allowed the full force of the novel to act upon me. So many passages to ruminate on, but here is one chilling paragraph from near the end of the novel, of the protagonist at a Mahler concert at Carnegie Hall: In the glow of the final movement, but well before the music ended, an elderly woman in the front row stood, and began to walk up the aisle. She walked slowly, and all eyes were on her, though all ears remained on the music. It was as though she had been summoned, and was leaving into death, drawn by a force invisible to us. The old woman was frail, with a thin crown of white hair that, backlit by the stage, became a halo, and she moved so slowly that she was like a mote suspended inside the slow-moving music. One of her arms was slightly raised, as though she were being led forward by a helper -- as though I was down there with my oma, and the sweep of the music was pushing us gently forward as I escorted her out into the darkness. As she drifted to the entrance and out of sight, in her gracefulness she resembled nothing so much as a boat departing a country lake early in the morning, which, to those still standing on the shore, appears not to sail but to dissolve into the substance of the fog. There are several metaphors floating around in there; it requires attentiveness. Passages such as this appear throughout the novel, and they simply arise out of quotidian observations of daily life in New York City and Brussels. Thought-provoking and different. ...more<---C>Teju Cole</---C>", "Title": "Open City"},
