{"Comments": "4.<---F>5 stars out of 5</---F>. (non-spoiler alert here -- I'm including a few quotes in my review below, but I promise not to spoil any important surprises from the book!) I am docking this book 1/2 star because Penny conflated two different species of plants which actually are not at all similar in the way Penny claimed -- which turned out to be important to the plot, since one plot twist hinged on it. I know that sounds confusing, but I don't want to give twists away here. Suffice it to say that her twist 4.5 stars out of 5. (non-spoiler alert here -- I'm including a few quotes in my review below, but I promise not to spoil any important surprises from the book!) I am docking this book 1/2 star because Penny conflated two different species of plants which actually are not at all similar in the way Penny claimed -- which turned out to be important to the plot, since one plot twist hinged on it. I know that sounds confusing, but I don't want to give twists away here. Suffice it to say that her twist wouldn't have worked in Real Life, and that irked me. Otherwise, this would be a 5 star read all the way. Aside from my irk, this is a lovely book. And Penny is a great writer. I'm beginning to think of her as a pointillist of the written word. Like the painters, she carefully places tiny drops of information here, there,<---M> and everywhere across her canvas</---M>, until those myriad individual points coalesce into one beautiful whole. She does not create photographs or photo-realist paintings; rather, her images are somewhat stylized and in some ways even hyper-real. In fact, her technique seems much like that used by one of the artists in her books, Peter, who paints everyday objects from such a magnified perspective that his finished products look like abstract art until you back far away from them. In Penny's case, she rapidly switches between points of view, sometimes every few paragraphs, giving us only pinpoint glimpses into each scene before moving on to the next. And within each vignette she makes minutely detailed observations, which readers piece together one by one until they can finally appreciate the overall image by the end of the book. And what wonderful turns of phrase! Penny knows how to wring every drop of goodness out of these tiny scenes. For instance, this one description becomes a sort of metaphor for the entire book: \"As he approached [the house] he was surprised to see peeling paint and jagged, broken windows. The \u2018For Sale\u2019 sign had fallen over and tiles were missing from the roof and even some bricks from the chimney. It was almost as though the house was casting parts of itself away.[\u2026.]Things were not as they seemed. The known world was shifting, reforming. Everything he\u2019d taken as a given, a fact, as real and unquestioned, had fallen away. But he was damned if he was going to fall with it. Or let anyone he loved go down. \u2018The house is falling apart,\u2019 said Gamache. \u2018Be careful.\u2019\" Also, Penny has an exquisite talent for depicting the depths and pathos of emotions, without becoming maudlin or cheap -- \"\u2018I can\u2019t believe she\u2019s gone,\u2019 said Hazel, sitting down as though her legs had given way. Loss was like that, Gamache knew. You didn\u2019t just lose a loved one. You lost your heart, your memories, your laughter, your brain and it even took your bones. Eventually it all came back, but different. Rearranged.\" and \"The lump in the throat that fizzed and ached. The terror of falling asleep knowing that on waking she\u2019d relive the loss, like Prometheus bound and tormented each day. Everything had changed. Even her grammar. Suddenly she lived in the past tense. And the singular.\" I read through this book constantly exclaiming to myself -- Oh! Look at that! Look how she wrote that! -- really great stuff. As for the characters -- I have rarely felt as much respect and affection for any fictional character as I do for Penny's Chief Inspector Gamache. Oh, how I would love to know that man in real life. I ache when he aches; I rejoice when he rejoices. And Penny paints each of her secondary characters with similar vivid colors and clarity, bit by bit and point by point. None of her characters are perfect, but none are evil either; it is obvious that Penny cares for all of them, and she lets readers see the good along with the bad. Great character work to go along with her prose. As for the plot -- well, yes, plot. I personally am not a big fan of the unlikely and improbably twisted murder scenario, but since I AM a huge fan of both prose and character it's easy for me to enjoy these books despite this one aspect. The twists and turns do work (aside from my one complaint above), and for folks who look for convoluted plots this may even be a major selling point of the series. For myself, the plot often doesn't even make much of an impression on me except as it impacts on and reveals more about the characters. In this case, the plot is filled with an intriguing web of secrets, envy, and jealousy that affect everyone from the smallest side character to Gamache himself -- but always Penny leaves us with hope and love as well. Overall, great book. It's going on my \"favorite recent reads\" shelf. I enjoyed the first two books in the series, but I really loved this one. Now, on to the next! ...more It is Easter in Three Pines, Quebec, and the locals are discussing Easter traditions and the dangers of hiding edibles outdoors when bears are emerging from their dens. But nevermind! There's a seance to attend, but there are some abstainers--including the spirits. Jeanne says the village is too happy for them to visit. Oh, but the abandoned Hadley house is available, right? Just because Clara was trapped in the basement and the deceased owner spread malicious lies for years doesn't mean it is a It is Easter in Three Pines, Quebec, and the locals are discussing Easter traditions and the dangers of hiding edibles outdoors when bears are emerging from their dens. But nevermind! There's a seance to attend, but there are some abstainers--including the spirits. Jeanne says the village is too happy for them to visit. Oh, but the abandoned Hadley house is available, right? Just because Clara was trapped in the basement and the deceased owner spread malicious lies for years doesn't mean it is a bad idea. Just not a very good one. To absolutely no reader's surprise, one of the guests at the seance dies of fright. Or did they? Inspector Ganache is summoned once again to restore the idyllic flow of life in Three Pines. Oh, fine--the name is Inspector Gamache. This is Penny's third installment in the series, and the writing is starting to feel more self-assured. However, a couple of stylistic issues remain, the most significant of which is the third-person limited point of view. All along, the reader dips into a variety of perspective of both villagers and investigators. Although there is some emotional benefit, as certain events are more meaningful depending on person, ultimately, it feels like trickery. As there are a number of people actively engaged in deceiving others, it becomes clear the limited viewpoint is supposed to heighten tension at the multiple end denouements, but because we were in those person's thoughts, it's disappointing as well. The limitations also mean limited insight into particular characters. As a personal issue, I still dislike the staccato style, but at least I'm getting used to it. \"She always seemed to be enjoying herself. And why not, thought Clara. After what she'd been through.\" See? Ergh! Smooth those fragments out! Mystery plotting is likely the weakest part of the book. Ganache is no Poirot, using the little grey cells to piece together the events of the night and the characters of all involved. A cursory search and a coincidental event leads to the solution. But that's okay, because his grey cells are off-line, distracted by the emotion caused from some malicious newspaper articles alleging his corruption. Mon dieu! Heavy handed and fairly implausible, it didn't really square with Penny's world-building of an upstanding guy that everyone admires and loves (except all the people that hate him with a passion). At least this time, we get to see him acting all noble and calm so we can observe how spiffy he is and his groovy, thoughtful brown eyes reading our soul. But you know why I read this? I mean, besides book OCD? Because the language is frequently lovely. The gentle humor that occasionally peeked through was also delightful. \"Clara have always liked Odile.\u2026 She claimed to be working on an epic poem, an ode to the English of Quebec, which was suspicious since she was French.\" The bawdy caricature-based humor present in the first book has improved and become slightly more subtle. Well, except the ducks and Ruth the poet, which are not subtle at all. Duck! (Rhymes with f*ck, get it?) Fowl! I cry fowl! But read this very clever bit that so nicely blends character, uncomfortable emotion and humor: \"Inspector Jean Guy Beauvoir watched as the last of the Crime Scene team packed up... Ripping a length of tape from a yellow roll he stuck it across the door. He repeated that several times more than he normally would. Something in him felt the need to seal away whatever was in that room. He'd never admit it, of course, but Jean Guy Beauvoir had felt something growing... Foreboding. No, not foreboding. Something else. Emptiness. Jean Guy Beauvoir felt he was being hollowed out. And he suddenly knew that if he stay there would be just a chasm and and echo where his insides had been... Had he known how the artist Christo had wrapped the Reichstag he might have seen a similarity. Yellow Crime Scene tape smothered the door.\" Still far too much telling instead of doing. But worth reading all the same. ...more The Cruellest Month is the third installment in <---A>Louise Penny</---A>\u2019s series about Chief Inspector Gamache and I think this is the weakest book in this series so far. It took me a month to read it, which is not a good sign for a mystery. Once again, the setting is the picturesque village of Three Pines, in Quebec and the usual cast of charactres with a few new ones. There are two major stories in this book: 1) The death of new resisdent Madeleine Favreau, a nice and successful woman who came to live wi The Cruellest Month is the third installment in Louise Penny\u2019s series about Chief Inspector Gamache and I think this is the weakest book in this series so far. It took me a month to read it, which is not a good sign for a mystery. Once again, the setting is the picturesque village of Three Pines, in Quebec and the usual cast of charactres with a few new ones. There are two major stories in this book: 1) The death of new resisdent Madeleine Favreau, a nice and successful woman who came to live with old friend Hazel. My biggest problem with this book is how the murder happened - the spiritualism is over the top and the whole business about a haunted house is too ridiculous and silly. Supposedly insightful adults are willing to accept the Hadley house as the repository of all the evil banished from this unbelievably peaceful town. There are just too many implausible events (s\u00e9ances, witches etc.) 2) In the second book it was hinted about the conspiracy against Gamache within Surate and in this book it is finally revealed. (view spoiler) [Apparently Superintendent Arnot had led a group of officers that were systematically killing Native Canadians. (hide spoiler) ] This is rather laughable and beyond plausibility because it's impossible for me to believe that the members of the police force sit around trying to figure out how to bring Gamache down out of revenge for what he did to somone sent to prison for heinous crimes. Not to mention how the media treated the whole scandal - they published a pic of Gamache and his son and didn\u2019t know this was actually his son. I can\u2019t comprehend how the media would publish such rumors and pictures without proof of their arraignment. The two plots the author wove together were both unrealistic and makes little sense. For a immensely nice village, there are an awful lot of murders in it, I excpet Louise Penny to kill the whole village til the end of the series. As for the characters - the usual cast still seems to be cardboard stereotypes, very poorly drawn and I found the new characters completely uninteresting. Madeleine presented as the \u201cgolden girl\u201d is such a clich\u00e9. All the characters have no color - the good ones are too good and perfect that it\u2019s really hard to relate them as real human beings. The dialogue is quite uneven - very often too syrupy sweet for my taste and sometimes filled with bad jokes. Even the ending is very uncreative - the detective gets all the characters together and explain what exactly happned. ...more Rating: 4* of five Ruth Zardo comes out best in this awful, wrenching hanky-moistener of a book. That's all I can say. Anything else is a spoiler, and if I spoil this book for anyone, that person will hunt me down and kill me. Dead, like Madeleine Favreau! Eternal rhyming blank verse written by Odile recited in my ears by Rod McKuen. *shudder* Secrets. Lies. Jealousies. Anguish. Loathing for the happiness of those close to us. If it lasted a few thousand more pages, I'd say it was a Ken Follett nove Rating: 4* of five Ruth Zardo comes out best in this awful, wrenching hanky-moistener of a book. That's all I can say. Anything else is a spoiler, and if I spoil this book for anyone, that person will hunt me down and kill me. Dead, like Madeleine Favreau! Eternal rhyming blank verse written by Odile recited in my ears by Rod McKuen. *shudder* Secrets. Lies. Jealousies. Anguish. Loathing for the happiness of those close to us. If it lasted a few thousand more pages, I'd say it was a Ken Follett novel of medieval times. It was impossible to put down, as \"People\" magazine yodels from the cover. It was harrowing to see these characters I've invested so much in suffering from blindness of the spirit, self-inflicted, attempting to shun painful knowledge. (Kath--re A Certain Party I indicated admiration for--you were right, ew.) Being a murder mystery, one knows from the outset that one is being set up to sympathize with a character who later proves to be a murderer, doubtless to one's shock and horror. Strangely, this murderer left me cold, was someone I thought, \"oh yeah, that's logical\" about, and in whom I made not the smallest investment. I was wretchedly, abjectly, tearfully sorry for someone else's miserable awakening, and almost...only almost!...forgave an annoying, nasty character's existence at the end of the book. There is, about 2/3 of the way through the book, a scene of memorable power and beauty between Gamache and Beauvoir. The sex is awesome! No, not really, but the two men confront each other honestly and unguardedly for the first time, and it adds so very much to the extant emotional resonances that Penny layers into each of her works that I can't wait to read the next installment. Next year. I need some time off, back reading about the Cathars and how the Pope and his fellow Satanic Minions tortured, murdered, and vilified their fellow beings for the greater glory of Jesus. Less emotionally draining, y'know. Really, if you're so suspicious or so backward not to have run out and bought or checked out this entire series already, there is little point in recommending that you do so, but I must: Highly, highly recommended, and NOT just for mystery lovers, but for those who live to discover subtlety and grace in writing. ...more Why do I like this woman and this band of lunatics? First there's the thing about the nice small village which just happens to have the highest known murder rate per capita in the entire world. ..I hate that. Then there's the thing about everybody in the village being slightly eccentric. ..I really hate that. Then there is the kinda obligatory creepy sceance thing in a hunted house. ..Really? do people still do that? Then she starts the book like your typical cozy and then it transforms into a po Why do I like this woman and this band of lunatics? First there's the thing about the nice small village which just happens to have the highest known murder rate per capita in the entire world. ..I hate that. Then there's the thing about everybody in the village being slightly eccentric. ..I really hate that. Then there is the kinda obligatory creepy sceance thing in a hunted house. ..Really? do people still do that? Then she starts the book like your typical cozy and then it transforms into a police procedural. ..Really weird. Then there's the whole room full of suspects, and that whole, 'you did it', 'no, she did it', 'no, he did it', 'no, they did it', Agatha Christie kinda thing. ..Really?, come on now! So why did I like it? I have no idea, but I really did like it. Maybe it's the whole wise and paternal Inspector Gamache thing leading his adoring band of rejects, especially the rude girl with her hair constantly in the soup and crumbs on her blouse, who doesn't listen and who nobody likes, including her parents. Although, personally, I thought she was nice in a rude kind of way. So, to sum it up, it's like this big crazy quilt, made from lots of ugly leftover scraps. But, in the end, the damn thing still turns out beautiful. (Like the girl, after you wash the soup out'a her hair.) Go figure! ...more The Hook - I loved the title and wondered just what month is the cruelest. You\u2019ll have to read the book to find out> I must say I agree. The Line \u2013 \u201d One was dead and one was left behind, one again.\u201d The Sinker \u2013 This passage about Armand Gamache intrigued me. \u201d He gathered feelings. He gathered emotions. Because murder was deeply human. It wasn\u2019t about what people did. No, it was how they felt, because that\u2019s where it all started. Some feeling that had once been human and natural, had twisted. The Hook - I loved the title and wondered just what month is the cruelest. You\u2019ll have to read the book to find out> I must say I agree. The Line \u2013 \u201d One was dead and one was left behind, one again.\u201d The Sinker \u2013 This passage about Armand Gamache intrigued me. \u201d He gathered feelings. He gathered emotions. Because murder was deeply human. It wasn\u2019t about what people did. No, it was how they felt, because that\u2019s where it all started. Some feeling that had once been human and natural, had twisted. Become grotesque. Had turned sour and corrosive until its very container had been eaten away, until the human barely existed. It took years for an emotion to reach that stage. Years of careful nurturing, protecting, justifying, tending and finally burying it. Alive. Then one day it clawed its way out, something terrible. Something that had only one goal. To take a life. Armand Gamache found murderers by following the trail of rancid emotions. As the third in a series I was expecting the same ol\u2019. <+++>The Cruelest Month</+++> turned out to be a pleasant surprise. Yes, there were the comforting things I grew used to from having read the other stories, characters that I knew and liked, a glimpse of the daily life in Three Pines, a mystery and murder to solve. But somehow this one was just better. The writing was stronger, the plot structure was tighter; there were red herrings and clues that worked. I honestly wanted to know how all would turn out. In the end what I loved the most was that this was a story of friendships, of betrayal, of love, of envy, of ghosts, of spirituality, all blending well leaving me thinking about what life brings. <+++>The Cruelest Month</+++> is an easy story to spoil so I\u2019ll tell no more. Read the summary, read the book and enjoy a first class mystery novel. Ralph Cosham is Armand Gamache for me. It breaks my heart that he did not live to read all that Louise Penny will write. ...more Reading a Chief Inspector Gamache novel by Louise Penny is a terrific reading experience. This is the 3rd novel in the series and the fourth which I have read. As I was reading this book I was reminded of when I first discovered Agatha Christie and Hercule Poirot. A small village, a murder, a small group of suspects, and a detective who will discover the truth by reasoning and deduction. Is it possible to be scared to death? Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his team return to Three Pines, a sma Reading a Chief Inspector Gamache novel by Louise Penny is a terrific reading experience. This is the 3rd novel in the series and the fourth which I have read. As I was reading this book I was reminded of when I first discovered Agatha Christie and Hercule Poirot. A small village, a murder, a small group of suspects, and a detective who will discover the truth by reasoning and deduction. Is it possible to be scared to death? Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his team return to Three Pines, a small village outside Montreal, to investigate a bizarre death. Some of the villagers decide to spend their Easter holding a s\u00e9ance at the Old Hadley House to rid it of it's evil, the curse, that seems to hang over their town like a dark cloud. The s\u00e9ance has barely begun when Madeleine Favreau collapses, apparently dead of fright.Was this a natural death? Or was the victim somehow helped along to the next world? If it was murder how was it done? And who would want Madeleine dead? She was attractive, successful, popular, the life of the party. At least that is what everyone tells Inspector Gamache when he first arrives. But he is a very patient man and knows how to unlock secrets. Readers of this series know that previously Gamache arrested a S\u00fbret\u00e9 officer, Superintendent Arnot, for murder. An arrest that caused division within S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec and has ended any advancement in his career. Fellow officers either loved or hated his actions. Now someone has started a campaign to smear his name, as well as his family, in a newspaper. He does not respond to the newspaper but faces off against the man in the S\u00fbret\u00e9 he believes is responsible. And it is no spoiler to remind readers that there is a spy (or spies?) on his team placed there by someone in the S\u00fbret\u00e9. Armand Gamache must deal with these events while trying to solve the death of Madeleine Favreau. In this story the reader gets better acquainted with the characters in the series. One of the more interesting character developments is Ruth Zardo, the renowned poet, who bonds with a pair of ducks. Each time we return to Three Pines we learn a little more about the quirky residents and it's like catching up with old friends. ...more My wife stumbled upon the first Louise Penny mystery, Still Life, in the Halifax Airport bookstore a few years ago. (A surprisingly good store, I recommend it to all on your next layover to St. John's.) We both rapidly became fascinated by Penny's writing, which is sometimes too precious, but always redeemed, because made more complex by, her turns towards hatred and anger. These are really strange books (The Cruellest Month is the third; I expect there will ultiamtely be four; each is set during My wife stumbled upon the first Louise Penny mystery, Still Life, in the Halifax Airport bookstore a few years ago. (A surprisingly good store, I recommend it to all on your next layover to St. John's.) We both rapidly became fascinated by Penny's writing, which is sometimes too precious, but always redeemed, because made more complex by, her turns towards hatred and anger. These are really strange books (The Cruellest Month is the third; I expect there will ultiamtely be four; each is set during a season): a quite successful attempt to write a \"village cozy\" set in contemporary Quebec, combined with a sort of sweeping good v bad political narrative of the sort one might more typically find in a fantasy or science fiction text. Using the poetry of Margaret Atwood and attributing it to the fictional poet Ruth Zardo also strikes me as kind of stroke of genius. I recommend these books pretty highly: one the one hand, they are kind of lame; one the other, they are utterly compelling. I hope this seems like a bit of an odd review, because the books themselves are. ...more Early scenes are confusing and slow developing. Waiting for someone to be killed so Gamache can appear and the book can take off. updated 9/16/13 ... Gamache has arrived, and the writing style has changed. In the early chapters, there was mostly conversation among the residents of Three Pines, who spoke in the shorthand of people who know each other well. When Gamache is on the scene, clarity accompanies him. Suddenly, Penny finds the few extra words that put characters in context and make it cle Early scenes are confusing and slow developing. Waiting for someone to be killed so Gamache can appear and the book can take off. updated 9/16/13 ... Gamache has arrived, and the writing style has changed. In the early chapters, there was mostly conversation among the residents of Three Pines, who spoke in the shorthand of people who know each other well. When Gamache is on the scene, clarity accompanies him. Suddenly, Penny finds the few extra words that put characters in context and make it clear who is who. In my opinion, that same clarity should have been achieved earlier. I think this could have been done without losing the spontaneity of the dialogue, albeit with more work on the part of the author. If this was my first exposure to the Gamache series, I would have put the book away unfinished. updated 9/29/13 ... Having said what could have been better, I still found this a very enjoyable read. I am still (after 3 books) not fully enamored with the strange Three Pines residents, but the stories are good and the in-fighting among the police is very well presented. ...more I think this is my favorite in the series, so far. Ruth got her duck. Mom is so happy I've made it to the duck. To me, this story is about transformation, how it can be brought about by love, jealousy, betrayal, illness, or just being in the right place at the right time. I enjoy watching this town and its residents, the petty little squabbles, the festering secrets, the togetherness they have. I know small town life and while it's not quite like this, typically, I can feel how this particular dyna I think this is my favorite in the series, so far. Ruth got her duck. Mom is so happy I've made it to the duck. To me, this story is about transformation, how it can be brought about by love, jealousy, betrayal, illness, or just being in the right place at the right time. I enjoy watching this town and its residents, the petty little squabbles, the festering secrets, the togetherness they have. I know small town life and while it's not quite like this, typically, I can feel how this particular dynamic was created and how it sustains itself. I was surprised to find Gamache's storyline going as far as it did. I don't know if it is resolved, for this portion, at least, or not but I didn't expect it to go so far in one book. There's a Sherlock Holmes/Moriarty thing going on, though Gamache is much less asshole-ish or drug addicted than Holmes. I had the killer wrong this time. I had everything else right but chose the wrong person. This is why I am a librarian and not a detective. My solve rate would be super low. ...more Book 3, and though I hate to leave bad reviews, this one is poor. I don't like the head hopping and her plot in this book seemed implausible. The whole thing about the Arnot case and the vendetta against Gamache didn't ring true to me; nor did the notion that every single person in the book seems to believe that the Hadley house is actually haunted. Really? And Penny's character portrayal is weak. It's not that her characters are cardboard; I think one of her themes is that all of us are a mix o Book 3, and though I hate to leave bad reviews, this one is poor. I don't like the head hopping and her plot in this book seemed implausible. The whole thing about the Arnot case and the vendetta against Gamache didn't ring true to me; nor did the notion that every single person in the book seems to believe that the Hadley house is actually haunted. Really? And Penny's character portrayal is weak. It's not that her characters are cardboard; I think one of her themes is that all of us are a mix of light and dark, and I like that. It's that I feel as if she is trying to push us to love the characters she loves, and to dislike the characters that she has decided we shouldn't. If that comment makes any sense. But on Amazon, readers say the series starts to get better with Book 4, so I'll keep trying. I do love Gamache, idealized though he is. And who among us doesn't want to hop in our cars and find Three Pines? Clearly, Penny has some gift as a storyteller, because I continue to love this series. ...more Loved it. Some of the issues brought forward from the first two books are kind of resolved in this third book in a dramatic way. Winner of the Agatha Award for Best Novel in 2008, the Cruelest Month is Louise Penny's 3rd in her Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. I started this series recently and have found the books to be one of the best in the murder mystery gendre. The books not only engage you in a mystery, but allow you to get an inside glimpse of the characters in a lovely, poetic way. The Cruelest Month centers around a seance in the scary old Hadley house where no one wishes to tread. Full of fear and trepidati Winner of the Agatha Award for Best Novel in 2008, the Cruelest Month is Louise Penny's 3rd in her Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. I started this series recently and have found the books to be one of the best in the murder mystery gendre. The books not only engage you in a mystery, but allow you to get an inside glimpse of the characters in a lovely, poetic way. The Cruelest Month centers around a seance in the scary old Hadley house where no one wishes to tread. Full of fear and trepidation, our favorite returning characters of the Three Pines village carry with them secrets that are revealed little by little. Clara Morrow's budding artistic career is interestingly seen through her husband's envy. Always a standout is the cranky poet, Ruth. She is just terrific. A favorite character of mine is Jean Guy Beauvoir, 2nd in command to the Chief Inspector. We start to see some troubling silent thoughts of his that will be interesting to see if they will be revealed as the books progress. Others on the team, Yvette Nichol and Robert Lemieux, add some political intrigue to the novel. Heartbreaking is the betrayal by an unexpected source for Armand Gamache. The audiobooks are the best way to go with the series as far as I'm concerned. Ralph Cosham, returning narrator, has a wonderfully pleasant voice and beautiful French Canadian accent. Sad to hear from a GR friend that he recently passed away. A definite 4 out of 5 stars. Highly recommend the Gamache series. ...more I just had an idea about why I both like and don't like this series. I've complained a bit in reviews for earlier books in in the series that the characters seem a bit caricatured. It occurs to me now that most of the characters have one or two dominating characteristics that are underlined frequently. This means that I have trouble \"buying\" them as three dimensional beings. BUT, it also occurred to me that there is a long tradition of fiction in which characteristics such as Hope or Greed are p I just had an idea about why I both like and don't like this series. I've complained a bit in reviews for earlier books in in the series that the characters seem a bit caricatured. It occurs to me now that most of the characters have one or two dominating characteristics that are underlined frequently. This means that I have trouble \"buying\" them as three dimensional beings. BUT, it also occurred to me that there is a long tradition of fiction in which characteristics such as Hope or Greed are personified and these have resonated deeply with people. Maybe the Penny books are like a little Mystery Play. An aside about editing: I think if one is going to make the natural world (plants and animals) such a large part of the story, one should get an editor versed in these things. It is hard for an author to watch for all the little things, but an editor should check them. Do baby robins have red breasts? Do those flowers ever bloom at Easter in the Eastern Townships? How does that dog who was a year old a few pages ago suddenly lose six months? Finally, I also begin to wonder as I continue reading if there are any sympathetic characters under 30 in this village. Most of the young people seem pretty awful. ...more You know you have a good mystery writer when the mystery isn't always the most important part of the book. Louise Penny continues to grow as a writer in her third book about the members of the village of Three Pines and Chief Inspector Armand Gamache. The members of the village that we have previously met; Ruth, the crabby old poet, Clara and Peter, the artist couple, Myrna, the bookstore owner, and Gabri and Oliver, the gay innkeepers, are all back. New to this story are Madeleine and Hazel, tw You know you have a good mystery writer when the mystery isn't always the most important part of the book. Louise Penny continues to grow as a writer in her third book about the members of the village of Three Pines and Chief Inspector Armand Gamache. The members of the village that we have previously met; Ruth, the crabby old poet, Clara and Peter, the artist couple, Myrna, the bookstore owner, and Gabri and Oliver, the gay innkeepers, are all back. New to this story are Madeleine and Hazel, two friends who live together, Hazel's daughter, Sophie, on college break, Monsieur Beliveau, the grocer with maybe more than a crush on Madeleine, Gilles Sandon, a lumberjack turned artist, and his wife Odile who runs a natural/health food store and is a poetess of dubious distinction. Throw in a Wiccan medium with a link to someones past and a couple of seances and you have the makings of a mysterious murder. However, what is even more intersting is the deepening characterizations that Penny brings, not only to the villagers and the suspects but to the members of Gamache's investigation team. Peter's jealousy, Ruth's surprising compassion, Oliver's growing frustration with Gabri, Inspector Beauvoir's love and respect for Gamache are just the beginning. A fifth star would have been given if Penny didn't interupt her denouemont for some over the top thrilleresque gun play. Yes, it was nice to wrap up some of Gamache's backstory and to learn which of the young investigators on his team was working against him, but don't do that when you have gathered all of your murder suspects into the room where the murder took place and none of them have anything to do with that supblot. These two plots could have been wrapped up at different times instead of them having to interupt one another. Still a great read and I can't wait to read the fourth book in the series. ...more THE CRUELLEST MONTH (Traditional Mystery- C.I. Armand Gamache-Canada-Cont) - Ex Penny, Louise \u2013 3rd in series Headline, 2007, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780755328949 First Sentence: Kneeling in the fragrant moist grass of the village green Clara Morrow carefully hid the Easter egg and thought about raising the dead, which she planned to do right after supper. *** It is Easter and Inspector Armand Gamache has been called back to the small town of Three Pines where a woman has been literally frightened to THE CRUELLEST MONTH (Traditional Mystery- C.I. Armand Gamache-Canada-Cont) - Ex Penny, Louise \u2013 3rd in series Headline, 2007, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780755328949 First Sentence: Kneeling in the fragrant moist grass of the village green Clara Morrow carefully hid the Easter egg and thought about raising the dead, which she planned to do right after supper. *** It is Easter and Inspector Armand Gamache has been called back to the small town of Three Pines where a woman has been literally frightened to death during a s\u00e9ance in the old Handley mansion. Gamache has his own ghosts to uncover as someone is out to destroy his career, his life and that of his family. To save himself, he must uncover a murderer and a spy in his midst. *** There are not a lot of authors whose words beg me to read them aloud, but I spent the weekend annoying a friend with my constant \"Listen to this...\". There is such humor and incite in Penny's writing. For me, she hits all the right notes; wonderful sense of place, fascinating well-rounded human characters, excellent dialogue, a bit of suspense, meticulous plotting and just a faint touch of spiritualism. I came away from this, and all her books, feeling I've been giving a bit of insight on human nature but never that I've been preached to. For me, this book was so much more than a basic traditional mystery and quite possibly, the best of her books yet. The only problem I had with this book was that life kept getting in the way of my reading time. Highly recommended. ...more \u041f\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u0430 \u0441 \u0432\u0441\u044f\u043a\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 - \u0447\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e \u043f\u0438\u0441\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b\u0441\u043a\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u043b\u044a\u0442 \u045d \u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u043e\u0448\u043b\u0430\u0439\u0444\u0430\u043d, \u043f\u043e-\u0438\u0437\u0447\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0435\u043d. \u041d\u043e \u0438 \u0430\u0442\u043c\u043e\u0441\u0444\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0442\u0435... \u0432\u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0442\u0438 \u0434\u043e\u0441\u043a\u0443\u0447\u0435\u0435 (\u043a\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e \u043f\u044a\u043a \u043d\u0435\u043e\u0431\u0438\u0447\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0438 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430 \u043c\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0430\u0442 \u0432 \u0435\u0434\u043d\u043e \u0443\u0436 \u0437\u0430\u0431\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043d\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u0431\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u0441\u0435\u043b\u043e?!) \u0442\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u0445\u0443\u0431\u0430\u0432\u043e, \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u043c\u0438\u043b\u043e \u0438 \u0432\u0430\u0436\u043d\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0449\u0430\u0448 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0434\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u043a\u0438\u0440\u0432\u0430\u0448 \u043d\u043e\u0432\u0438 \u0438 \u043d\u043e\u0432\u0438 \u0434\u044a\u043b\u0431\u043e\u0447\u0438\u043d\u0438 \u0432 \u0445\u0430\u0440\u0430\u043a\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0430 \u0438\u043c. \u041e, \u0447\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0441\u043d\u0430 \u0435. \u041d\u044f\u043c\u0430\u043c \u0442\u044a\u0440\u043f\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u043b\u0435\u0437\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0437 \u044f\u043d\u0443\u0430\u0440\u0438, \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u044f \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0447\u0435\u0442\u0430\u0442 \u0438 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435. 4.5 stars The third of the Inspector Gamache series and my favorite so far. They just keep getting better and better. As the characters become more complex, and more of their lives revealed I become more and more invested. I am not a \"series\" reader but this is one that I will follow to the end. The \"mystery\" is almost secondary to me....though they are a challenge in themselves. I think that I may have enjoyed this Louise Penny novel the most of the three I've read in this series. It almost felt like this one went a little deeper than the two previous novels. I also found the actual murder mystery to be a bit more compelling with this one. I still didn't find this one to knock it out of the park BUT I do think it was very readable and makes me want to continue with the series. I keep hearing that it starts to pick up at book 4 so I'm eager to see if that's the case. I d I think that I may have enjoyed this Louise Penny novel the most of the three I've read in this series. It almost felt like this one went a little deeper than the two previous novels. I also found the actual murder mystery to be a bit more compelling with this one. I still didn't find this one to knock it out of the park BUT I do think it was very readable and makes me want to continue with the series. I keep hearing that it starts to pick up at book 4 so I'm eager to see if that's the case. I did enjoy getting to know the various characters a bit more - the character development aspect was stellar and I found myself connecting with them more than in the earlier books. I'm eager to see how things go with the next book. ...more The Cruellest Month (or Cruelest, for you 'mericans) is the third entry in Louise Penny's Gamache series. Of the three I've read, this one had the most trouble keeping my attention. I lay blame at the feet of Blake Crouch, whose Dark Matter stayed in my head days after finishing it. Damn you, Crouch. However, it was still nice to return to the village of Three Pines and gain about 50 pounds vicariously through the characters' belt busting meals. Besides this, you can smell the pines, the spring b The Cruellest Month (or Cruelest, for you 'mericans) is the third entry in Louise Penny's Gamache series. Of the three I've read, this one had the most trouble keeping my attention. I lay blame at the feet of Blake Crouch, whose Dark Matter stayed in my head days after finishing it. Damn you, Crouch. However, it was still nice to return to the village of Three Pines and gain about 50 pounds vicariously through the characters' belt busting meals. Besides this, you can smell the pines, the spring blossoms, the fireplaces. You don't get much better serene settings than this, folks. Until MURDER!! Oh, Three Pines. How long is this going to go on? Per capita I believe we're hitting mean streets of Detroit numbers. Oh well, all's fair and fun in fiction. Once again, Louis Penny crafts a fine mystery that had me changing my mind about the guilty party several times. But, more noteworthy, she has begun to show off her suspense chops. There were scenes in the dreaded Hadley house that had me hunkering down in minor creep-mode. Nice, Louise. Also, I am loving the continued conversations between ex-psychologist Myrna and Gamache. Brilliant. So here it is. I have finished the first three books and perhaps at a crossroads. By most accounts, it is the fourth installment where the series apparently \"takes off\". This is exciting. Even more exciting is that her latest, (and 12th!) which was released a couple of weeks ago, has soared to the top of the NY Times Best Seller list and she was already 70,000 words into the next. The lady is a machine and there seems to be only higher quality with story and writing. As always, a little break from the series and I'll be back. I can barely wait. ...more 3rd novel featuring Chief Inspector Gamache It is spring time in Three Pines; some of the villagers have decided to celebrate Easter with a s\u00e9ance at the Old Hadley House, hoping to rid the town of its evil spirits that have plagued it for decades ---- suddenly one of the attendees collapses apparently scared to death.... Or was it murder? Due to mysterious circumstances, Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his team from the Suret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec are dispatched to this picturesque village. Once there, 3rd novel featuring Chief Inspector Gamache It is spring time in Three Pines; some of the villagers have decided to celebrate Easter with a s\u00e9ance at the Old Hadley House, hoping to rid the town of its evil spirits that have plagued it for decades ---- suddenly one of the attendees collapses apparently scared to death.... Or was it murder? Due to mysterious circumstances, Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his team from the Suret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec are dispatched to this picturesque village. Once there, they probe into the lives of the villagers, questioning and listening to them carefully in order to find the truth, what they uncover is treachery and betrayal. Meanwhile, the case forces Gamache to confront his past, enemies he has created high up within the Force want his hide, how far will they go to get it...who is the Judas within his own team?.......who can he trust?..... To obtain full enjoyment of this fantastic series, one should read the novels in order. The author's character development is amazing; not only do you genuinely love every one in spite of their flaws but each one comes to life in a manner you can relate to. You tend to sympathize with Armand Gamache, a brilliant and compassionate Inspector as he confronts his own ghosts while investigating the case. Ms Penny is a superb storyteller; you find a bit of everything: humour, jealousy and a multitude of other human emotions, all centered on a plot full of intrigue. The setting in this book could be referred to as mystical and mythical, a story set in an idyllic village where the author has written about the murder of other residents, how far will Ms Penny go....I can't wait to read her next novel ...more 4.5 - rounded up to 5. Again - Louise Penny's character development is phenomenal. The emotional elements to each person are so deep. And her descriptions of Clara's and Peter's art make we wish there was a gallery here. The murder to be solved here probably wasn't my favorite plot line, but with this one, the conclusion of the Arnot case which has been underlying the first 3 books comes to a close (I think??) I can't wait to pick up the next one, and I sure wish I could visit Three Pines! My favourite so far, can't wait to read number 4. The third and most serious Three Pines adventure thus far. Same great writing but in my opinion this addition was missing some of the humorous appeal the first two held, nevertheless, still a wonderful listen. Inspector Gamache and his team are trying to solve a murder that is being clouded by the fascination and mania that surround bewitchery and superstitions. Chief Inspectors suspicions are brought forward from book two of who may be responsible for the attempt to disgrace and discredit him. The third and most serious Three Pines adventure thus far. Same great writing but in my opinion this addition was missing some of the humorous appeal the first two held, nevertheless, still a wonderful listen. Inspector Gamache and his team are trying to solve a murder that is being clouded by the fascination and mania that surround bewitchery and superstitions. Chief Inspectors suspicions are brought forward from book two of who may be responsible for the attempt to disgrace and discredit him. He is truly thrown by the lengths of betrayal that ensue for the purpose of revenge against him. Being the consummate professional that he is, Gamache, of course, keeps focus on the task at hand, uses his excellent powers of deduction and wraps it all up. As always Ralph Cosham does a great job narrating and really brings the essence of Gamache's character to life. Louise Penny did such a beautiful job of describing the weather and foliage of Montreal in the Springtime, she captured the very existence and truly delivered a vision. It is so creative and clever how she finds a way to weave famous quotes into all of her books, it is such a treat. I look forward to enjoying the new characters, Inspector Gamache, and the next Three Pines adventure. ...more Not the juicy murder mystery in a cozy setting I was looking for - haunted houses, jealousy, gossip and evil conspiracies don't really do it for me. Of the 3 Gamache novels I've read in quick sequence, Still Life and A Fatal Grace were much more engaging. This just felt a bit... forced? I'm glad Penny decided to wrap up the Arnot subplot, as it was getting tired, and I hope this will be the final chapter on the oh-so-spooky Hadley house. I like anthropomorphizing inanimate objects as much as the Not the juicy murder mystery in a cozy setting I was looking for - haunted houses, jealousy, gossip and evil conspiracies don't really do it for me. Of the 3 Gamache novels I've read in quick sequence, Still Life and A Fatal Grace were much more engaging. This just felt a bit... forced? I'm glad Penny decided to wrap up the Arnot subplot, as it was getting tired, and I hope this will be the final chapter on the oh-so-spooky Hadley house. I like anthropomorphizing inanimate objects as much as the next person, but there's a limit. The development of both old and new characters felt much looser here, with the overarching theme being \"jealousy\" - <---C>Peter Morrow</---C>'s actions towards Clara in this respect were particularly upsetting. I didn't like the whole \"near enemy\" concept, nor did I enjoy Ruth's \"kindness kills\" piece. I thought the author tried her best to represent Wicca in a semi-positive light, but it still came off as awkward. Overall, not the best chapter in the Gamache saga - far less laughter and tasty food porn and juicy red herrings than in the previous installations - but not weak enough to put me off continuing with the series. ...more It is Eastertide in Three Pines, the small mountain village in in the province of Quebec. Spring is in the air, but the familiar friends decide to have a seance out at the already frightening Hadley House. When one within the circle dies of fright in plain sight how could it have been murder? How could a murderer have known all necessary elements would come together to kill? Certainly Armand Gamache and his crack team can find the clues and uncover the plot, but doing do at the same time as a pl It is Eastertide in Three Pines, the small mountain village in in the province of Quebec. Spring is in the air, but the familiar friends decide to have a seance out at the already frightening Hadley House. When one within the circle dies of fright in plain sight how could it have been murder? How could a murderer have known all necessary elements would come together to kill? Certainly Armand Gamache and his crack team can find the clues and uncover the plot, but doing do at the same time as a plot is underway to undermine his credibility makes it ever more interesting. This is another one of Louise Penny's Gamache series and even though it is a murder mystery, it is fun with every visit to this delightful little village. If it were a real place, I would want to visit. ...more Third in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache mystery series revolving around the inspector and a small village outside Montreal during Easter. My Take The village of Three Pines is as much a character in this series as the people. Whenever Penny describes this forgotten village in her opening paragraphs, I always think Brigadoon with the swirling years of time and the protection of the Canadian mountains as they conceal this tiny place. There's the old Hadley place, too. Another character abandoned Third in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache mystery series revolving around the inspector and a small village outside Montreal during Easter. My Take The village of Three Pines is as much a character in this series as the people. Whenever Penny describes this forgotten village in her opening paragraphs, I always think Brigadoon with the swirling years of time and the protection of the Canadian mountains as they conceal this tiny place. There's the old Hadley place, too. Another character abandoned in this series. A place where evil constantly finds its way in. Just goes to show\u2026even the sweetest places can harbor the most devious minds. Part of what I love about Penny's stories is her combination of warm, cozy, cottagey feel and the humor she sprinkles throughout. It makes me love the characters even more within the homey setting. The core group is planning an Easter egg hunt, and I cracked up with Gabi's remark about chocolate and Easter egg hunts: \"Great idea. Gay men offering chocolates to children.\" Then there's the irascible Ruth who has to destroy, even if she has a good point about rabbits and eggs, lol. What's truly funny? Ruth becomes a momma...she's so cute with Rosa and Lilium. Only it doesn't stay cute as the truth for Ruth's behavior comes through, killed by kindness, and I cried for all her losses. Peter's reaction to Denis Fortin wanting to see Clara 's work is so real and terrifies me throughout the story. He's so incredibly mean to his wife. He's so successful with his own work and still he resents her being discovered? The words he uses...I simply want to rip a strip off him! Especially as we read through Clara's fears. I'd worry about a policeman who says: \"You're blinded \u2026 by your need to help people, to save them.\" It's red herrings and betrayals a'plenty in this one with a sense of evil washing its hands in anticipation. I love how full and rounded Penny makes her characters. She shows us more of the anger and worries of Gamache's team, the give-and-take amongst them, the fears they have about themselves, the others, and Gamache. Beauvoir with his crush. Lemieux with his misperceptions. Nichol with her selfish attitude. The time spent with such a minor character as Gilles is beautiful as he talks about his trees and how they speak back. His regret and come-to-Jesus moment amongst the trees when he was a lumberjack. How can Lemieux be so gullible? So blind? Penny must be an artist or know them to understand them so well. There's a side story within this one about the Cree mother who refused to give up. It's a beautiful example of how one person can affect such change. What does it take for one person to be happy? How does one prevent jealousy from eating away at a person? Prevent them from seeing their own happiness? The Story It's fun and games---some not so nice---until the s\u00e9ance in the old Hadley place results in one of them being frightened to death. It's murder, you know, and Gamache and his team are thrust into confrontation on two fronts: finding the murderer and countering a campaign aimed against the chief inspector. The Characters Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the kind eyes and calm face is under fire at the S\u00fbret\u00e9 in Montreal and in the papers which are vilifying him and his children. Reine-Marie is his so very understanding wife and a librarian. Henri is Gamache's young German shepherd. Daniel is his married son who lives in Paris with his wife, Roslyn , and infant daughter, Florence . Anne Marie is their youngest child, married to David . Jean Guy Beauvoir is Gamache's second-in-command with a love for fine clothes; Enid is the wife he gladly leaves with the in-laws. Agent Isabelle Lacoste is part of Gamache's team as well; she has two children and is happy with herself. Marc Brault is Gamache's opposite number and friend over at the Montreal Metropolitan Police with whom he entrusted his children. Superintendent Michel Br\u00e9beuf , Gamache's supervisor, is revealing himself to be a traitor to his years-long friendship with Gamache; Catherine is his wife. Agent Robert Lemieux is the so-very-friendly and charming duty officer at the Cowansville police station in the Eastern Townships. Dr. Sharon Harris is the coroner. The bitchy, self-absorbed Agent Yvette Nichol is back! Superintendents Sylvain Francoeur , Gamache's arch-enemy and Arnot's best friend; Paget is the titular leader; and, Desjardins are part of the council. Ari Nikolev is Yvette's proud, yet deceitful father. The Core Inhabitants of Three Pines Clara is an artist who creates collages her husband does not understand, and yet, the influential Denis Fortin is coming to see her work. Her husband, Peter Morrow , is already famous, but works so slowly on his intensely magnified paintings that they'll never get rich. Lucy was Jane's dog and now lives with the Morrows. Myrna Landers is a heavyset former psychologist who now runs the village bookstore, Myrna's Livres, Neufs et Usag\u00e9s. Ruth Zardo is the curmudgeonly poet, who had won a Governor General prize for her work. She's also the volunteer fire chief! Olivier Brul\u00e9 and his partner, Gabri Dubeau , own a bed & breakfast in Three Pines; Olivier sells antiques as well while Gabri is the most delicious cook. I love that Gabri occasionally gets so ticked off at Olivier for selling everything out from underfoot that he sometimes wears a price tag! Hazel Smyth is happiest doing for others who are in distress. The angry Sophie Smyth is her daughter, visiting home from a stint at Queens University. Madeleine Favreau is an old schoolmate who's moved in and become Hazel's housemate. She's also, sort of, dating Monsieur B\u00e9liveau, whose wife recently died. Fran\u00e7ois Favreau is the ex-husband who still loves her. Joan Cummings is another old schoolmate. Minor Inhabitants of Three Pines Sarah runs a tasty Boulangerie while the widowed Monsieur B\u00e9liveau runs the general store. Odile Montmagny fancies herself a poet; her boyfriend, Gilles Sandon , is an artist in wood. Together they have a shop, La Maison Biologique, in St.-R\u00e9my. Madame Isadore Blavatsky is a famous Hungarian psychic, at least in Gabri's mind. Jeanne Chauvet is a guest at the B&B, who does readings. Denis Fortin is the owner of a famous art gallery, Galerie Fortin. The Arnot case has destroyed Gamache's career. The S\u00fbret\u00e9 wanted to sweep it under the rug; Gamache refused. The Cover The cover is crackling with a lightning bolt in the night sky over the small village of Three Pines. A pink-flowering tree stands showcased in the moonlight, separate from the houses and church surrounded in greenery which are set back leaving a deep green meadow in the forefront. The title refers to the betrayals of this Easter month, and there are so many. It is also the kindnesses that destroy, as Gamache learns in this, The Cruelest Month . ...more I liked this mystery, I want to move to Three Pines. This was an overall improvement from #2 in that it was less repellent in the crimes committed, however, the entire \"house as a malevolent entity\" became tedious rather quickly. Ignoring that annoyance, and being told by someone who just finished #7 that things start looking up after this one, gave me heart to look past the house and focus on the rest of the story and the characters. The mystery that brings the Inspector back to Three Pines is less compelling than the back story about the Arnot c This was an overall improvement from #2 in that it was less repellent in the crimes committed, however, the entire \"house as a malevolent entity\" became tedious rather quickly. Ignoring that annoyance, and being told by someone who just finished #7 that things start looking up after this one, gave me heart to look past the house and focus on the rest of the story and the characters. The mystery that brings the Inspector back to Three Pines is less compelling than the back story about the Arnot case. In fact, I cheated about 1/2 way through, after becoming impatient with the house, and jumped to the end to find out what was going on before finishing with the rest of the traditional mystery. The themes in this book are redemption but also about envy, which poisons everything around it, stealing pleasure and destroying happiness. There were several interesting human observations and \"the near enemy\" masqueraders: attachment as love, pity as compassion, and indifference as equanimity. The village is as idyllic as usual, barring the frequency of murders occurring there, and the personalities of several of the recurring characters were further revealed. Peter and Clara and Ruth in particular, but also Beauvoir and Nichol. Yes, Nichol, who is back once again. Poetry and an old-fashioned reveal of the real murderer occurs, but it is relatively tame compared to the internal cop drama. I assume there will be additional fall-out wrt the Arnot case, and am looking forward to that. ...more This is the third of the Gamache mysteries that I have read. For me, the series' strengths are first, time spent with Armand Gamache, wise, poetry-quoting, balanced, rock-solid yet warm and welcoming; second: the total coziness of the ambiance (thosemeals that Olivier and Gabri turn out! the trees! the wood fire!). This is the best type of cozy mystery, imho: an atmosphere of comfort without the cutsieness of knitting or quilting or recipes or cats solving the mystery. (Don't get me wrong: I am This is the third of the Gamache mysteries that I have read. For me, the series' strengths are first, time spent with Armand Gamache, wise, poetry-quoting, balanced, rock-solid yet warm and welcoming; second: the total coziness of the ambiance (thosemeals that Olivier and Gabri turn out! the trees! the wood fire!). This is the best type of cozy mystery, imho: an atmosphere of comfort without the cutsieness of knitting or quilting or recipes or cats solving the mystery. (Don't get me wrong: I am a counted-cross-stitching cat lover, so I am not putting down cats or crafts!) Alas, I now can define the weaknesses (for me) as well: the bizarre methods employed by the culprits; too many way-beyond-idiosyncratic tics, not to mention serious neuroses, in most of the characters (there is one character - a grown woman - who cannot eat without getting food stuck all over her face and her hair; I believe - shudder!! - the author adds this to make the character lovable. I think it is revolting and asinine and I have never met a single adult of sound mind with this tendency.) And finally, the bordering-improbable motivations behind the murders. (view spoiler) [ Really, Helen, if your friend is getting your goat, you don't have to KILL her; you could just ask her to get her own place. Maybe in another city. (hide spoiler) ] I plan on reading more in this series, but I have to space out the reading or the flaws will overwhelm the pleasure of the experience. ...more", "Title": "The Cruelest Month"},
