{"Comments": "Oh no\u2026the <---C><+++>Max</+++>imum Ride</---C> books have officially turned \"eco-friendly\". What happened to all the crazy mad scientist stuff? \"Millions of fish are dying off the coast of Hawaii and someone--or something--is destroying hundreds of ships. Unable to discover the cause, the government...\" I read that in the description of this book on some website\u2026Hmm, first it goes global warming\u2013\u2013save the polar bears! Now\u2026its saving fish\u2026\u2026Anyone else miss the Erasers? I want the whole flock-running-for-their-lives-from Oh no\u2026the <+++>Max</+++>imum Ride books have officially turned \"eco-friendly\". What happened to all the crazy mad scientist stuff? \"Millions of fish are dying off the coast of Hawaii and someone--or something--is destroying hundreds of ships. Unable to discover the cause, the government...\" I read that in the description of this book on some website\u2026Hmm, first it goes global warming\u2013\u2013save the polar bears! Now\u2026its saving fish\u2026\u2026Anyone else miss the Erasers? I want the whole flock-running-for-their-lives-from crazy-people-involved-in-Itex stuff back\u2026 ohhhhh greaaaaatttt\u2026I'd rather not have to get the urge of burning this book but from the looks of it\u2026err, I think I'll stop there\u2026okay one more thing\u2026at least this one is a LITTTTLLLEEEEE bit longer than The Final Warning\u2026320 something pages this time\u2026but that's still kinda\u2026oh I don't know\u2026depressing compared to the first few MR books\u2026right, now I shall shut up! ...more Okay, I officially spent two hours of my life reading the fifth Maximum Ride installment. I was very disappointed by the fourth one in particular, and a little bit so by the third. So, I sat down with MAX with no expectations whatsoever, because I wasn't going to allow myself to be disappointed by it. That was a good idea, because it wasn't all that good.<---F> Was it horrible ? No </---F>... But it wasn't great. It was better than the fourth, but -- of course -- it was nowhere near being as good as the first Okay, I officially spent two hours of my life reading the fifth Maximum Ride installment. I was very disappointed by the fourth one in particular, and a little bit so by the third. So, I sat down with MAX with no expectations whatsoever, because I wasn't going to allow myself to be disappointed by it. That was a good idea, because it wasn't all that good. Was it horrible ? No ... But it wasn't great. It was better than the fourth, but -- of course -- it was nowhere near being as good as the first. And I had several issues with it. First, let's get the bad stuff out of the way. Here are my questions/issues (<---B>a few spoilers may follow</---B>): a) I really hate the earthy-crunchy plot it's fallen into. First it was saving penguins, now it's fish. Whoop-dee-do. And really, the plot was just stupid. I mean, radioactive material under the sea kills fish and makes giant blob-monsters? Just ... weird. Plus, I'm confused about the whole thing. So, the Flock is meant to save the world,<---M> right? But from what </---M>, exactly? First I thought it was Itex, but then it seemed like they were supposed to save the world from global warming. Now, I have no idea. Max keeps talking about how there's supposed to be some apocalypse, but what is it??!! I'm losing patience!!! b) The whole Mr. Chu guy was really dumb, along with all his weird evil minions. I mean, they plant this illegal radioactive material under the ocean, and write on it \"PROPERTY OF MR CHU\" O.o ??? \"Oh, yeah. I'll just LABEL this illegal material with my NAME because that's SMART.\" Sure ... c) There really wasn't a plot. Yes, there were many plot twists, but they were always presented and then solved within one chapter, so there was no point in them at all. What was the point of the robot that looked like Ari? What was the point of Nudge leaving the rest of the Flock? What was the point of ... any of it? A lot of the long-term issues still remain thrown aside and unsolved. d) Building off of that, what happened to: Max being able to fly really fast? Nudge being magnetic? Iggy being able to see white? Angel being able to shapeshift her head? None of these powers were mentioned anymore. Plus, we STILL don't know what the heck the Voice is. And the Voice only showed up a few times, anyway, to make stupid little comments. e) I. Miss. Ari. Enough said. Anyway, there was one thing I can give the book some props for: the Fax. My comment? THANK. GOD. It took you guys four books and nineteen chapters to make it official. Congrats. Seriously, if there was no development in the Max-Fang relationship, I would have thrown the book across the room and screamed my head off. I admit, it got a little TOO perfect and mushy-gushy, but at least it was something -- which is more than there's been in ... any of the books, really. So that was a huge relief. And they are disgustingly cute together, I must say. Awww. Chapter 19 = best chapter. I read it, like, three times in a row and laughed my head off hysterically. It was amazing. \"I choose you , Max!!!\" What, like, she's a Pok\u00e9mon? Okaaaiiiii .... Whatever. The whole thing was so awesomely corny; it was the only thing that kept me reading. Over all, it was okay. I liked the Fax, which there was a lot of. It was sweet. Other than that, pretty stupid. Worth reading? Eh, not particularly. But not worth shredding, either. ...more Ergh. This book SUCKS. It's not as bad as the fourth one, but it's still really crappy. There is no plot. There are just a bunch of random subplots that are stupid, full of holes, and that have nothing to do with each other. There's just all these action scenes that have absolutely no point whatsoever. They're not even done well. This book is basically a soap opera - a really badly done one with an attempt at action. Lol. The ending was really stupid. It was really abrupt and sudden. Max just resc Ergh. This book SUCKS. It's not as bad as the fourth one, but it's still really crappy. There is no plot. There are just a bunch of random subplots that are stupid, full of holes, and that have nothing to do with each other. There's just all these action scenes that have absolutely no point whatsoever. They're not even done well. This book is basically a soap opera - a really badly done one with an attempt at action. Lol. The ending was really stupid. It was really abrupt and sudden. Max just rescues her mom and then skips off into the sunset with the flock, totally forgetting that some really lame villain is still alive and at work out there. And at the end, Patterson randomly throws at us a hint that Brigid is a traitor, but then he just ends the book like that. It's really stupid. Okay, let's talk about Mr. Chu. MOST PATHETIC AND LAME VILLAIN EVER . He's completely flat and boring, he literally has NO motive, plus he's really, REALLY stupid. I mean, who puts an illegal nuclear plant underwater and then LABELS IT WITH THEIR NAME ????? That's like screaming, \"HEY, LOOK! I'm producing illegal nuclear crap! Arrest me, please!\" OMG. Sheesh. And I thought Patterson had done the worst when the villain had been a pile of brains in the 4th book ... at least the pile of brains wasn't a total idiot. Oh and what the heck was up with Devin? I don't even get whose side he was on, and who he was working for. Bleehh. I love -- excuse me, I mean hate -- how Patterson totally forgets to tell us who the voice is in this one. You know, by the time he finally decides to tell us who it is, I'm not even going to care anymore. I don't think I even care now, anymore. Lol. It also really annoys me that Patterson had Max and Fang make out in front of Brigid and the flock, and he doesn't show their reactions AT ALL. Especially Brigid's. UGH. Okay, what is up with the title of this book? Why the heck did Patterson name the fifth book in the Maximum Ride series \" Max\"? Couldn't he come up with a more original title? I mean, there are DEFINITELY better and more creative titles he could have chosen. Come on. Even calling the book \"FISH\" would have been better and more original and creative than \"MAX.\" *shakes head with incredulity* OH. MY. GOD. I HATE ANGEL WITH A BURNING PASSION. She annoys the CRAP out of me. GAAAH I HATE THAT KID!!! She never listens to Max and thinks she can do whatever she wants and thinks she knows everything, and she's creepy and messed up, while everyone thinks she's such a sweet little angel!!! AAAH I HATE THAT STUPID LITTLE BRAT!!! Gaaah. Plus she's the biggest Mary-Sue in the history or Mary-Sues in the world. Eeeeewwwww. Screw Angel. lol Let's talk about the flock now. I used to love them, but now I'm pretty close to hating them. They've just gotten annoying, and turned from complex personalities to flat ones. Plus, I'm about ready to rip the book to pieces because of all the powers that they all KEEP FREAKING GETTING. Not only does Patterson totally forget and not use all the powers they randomly got before (like, where the hell did Max's super fast flying powers go???), but then he just throws a bunch of new, unrealistic, TOTALLY UN-SCIENTIFICALLY-POSSIBLE powers that just make me go, \"Uhh, REALLY?!?!\" Ugh. It's so stupid. I mean, not only does Angel have gills, now Fang and Max have them too! Oh. MY. Freaking. GOOODDDDDD. Idiots. Uh ... WOW. Why did I even bother to read this book? Oh right. Because I wanted to see Max and Fang make out. *rolls eyes at self* Even THAT wasn't good. It's overdone WAY too much. It was so Disney-esque and cheesy, it almost made me puke. Eeeegggh. They have serious makeout sessions, like, every other chapter, and they're always looking at each other googly-eyed and spouting lovesick lines at each other. It's almost as cheesy as Twilight (no offense, Meyer). lol. I mean, Fang and Max had great sexual tension in all the books before. But all of a sudden, in this book, POOF! It's totally gone. And that just makes it boring. Even when you become a couple, there's still tension and all that! It doesn't just go away . UGH. Well, I think that's all I got to say ... lol. Bleehhh. Stupid book. I was just waiting for it to end the whole time. I really don't want to read the sixth book when it comes out, but unfortunately, I know that I probably will. And then I'll give it one star and write a harsh, angry ranting review about it, just like this one. Well, at least it'll be worth it, for that. I love attacking books. Heehee. XD ...more i do not think it will be as good as the first three, the fourth was a let down. i personally like max better when shes on the run and kicking eraser/flyboy butt rather than saving the world This book was so awesome and I couldn't put it down. The group really had to lean on the support of others in this book, and I loved the new powers! <---A>James Patterson</---A> finally got Max and Fang together which I loved. This was the book to read in this series. Max is off to save the world. Again. This time on a submarine. I know; you\u2019re in shock. My favorite parts of this book included . . . a. Progress in the romance department\u2014always a good thing. b. The B.S. training aka Max and the flock whipping the pants off a certain navy training program that is supposed to take umpteen days and is completed by said bird kids in less than 24 hours. c. Did I mention, progress in the romance department? Ugh. Don't get me wrong- I loved the first three Maximum Ride books, when Patterson only intended them to be a trilogy. But the past two books have gone from bad to worse. Remember when the flock fought, oh, maybe ten or twelve savage Erasers at a time? Remember when every day was a struggle just to survive, when everyone was an enemy- especially the average, wingless Joe walking down the street? Now the flock takes down a thousand robots without breaking a sweat, and fights to save not only the Ugh. Don't get me wrong- I loved the first three Maximum Ride books, when Patterson only intended them to be a trilogy. But the past two books have gone from bad to worse. Remember when the flock fought, oh, maybe ten or twelve savage Erasers at a time? Remember when every day was a struggle just to survive, when everyone was an enemy- especially the average, wingless Joe walking down the street? Now the flock takes down a thousand robots without breaking a sweat, and fights to save not only themselves, but the environment too! Isn't that great? Oh, and to raise awareness for their cause, they fly stunt shows. And apparently, people think it's just peachy that a bunch of mutant kids created by a shifty corporation are running wild. No big deal- pretty cool, in fact. Excuse me? Yeah, right! Patterson has somehow managed to completely trash what began as a sparse, dry, heart-stopping, tear-jerking thriller about a most unlikely family struggling to survive in a completely hostile world. To think that he plans to write seven more Max books breaks my heart. ...more \"Max\" is the fifth book in The Maximum Ride Novels. This book is written for a younger audience (perhaps eight to fourteen-year-olds) but adults will fall in love with the characters too. My favorites are Max and Angel. As the oldest, Max sees herself as the leader who must look after the younger ones. However, she finds herself becoming distracted as she realizes she has feelings for Fang another member of the flock. Angel is the precocious six-year-old who, like typical six-year-olds, does wha \"Max\" is the fifth book in The Maximum Ride Novels. This book is written for a younger audience (perhaps eight to fourteen-year-olds) but adults will fall in love with the characters too. My favorites are Max and Angel. As the oldest, Max sees herself as the leader who must look after the younger ones. However, she finds herself becoming distracted as she realizes she has feelings for Fang another member of the flock. Angel is the precocious six-year-old who, like typical six-year-olds, does what she wants without thinking of possible consequences. I liked the other characters too, but they play lesser roles in this story. \"Max\" by James Patterson is a refreshing novel in so many ways. The language used is clean and the story lines are suitable for younger readers. It may appeal more to girls since the heroine is female, but I think boys will find it interesting as well. The reader is allowed to use her imagination to envision the flying bird-kids as well as the strange creatures that are trying to foil their plans of saving the planet. The story is fast-moving, with most chapters ending with foreshadowing. I could not put the book down and I really believe most kids will become enchanted with Max and her friends. However, I do suggest that children read the books in proper order so they do not become confused by references to prior events. ...more it was awesome! i hope he will write another, but it did leave it with a somewhat satisfying ending. however, she didn't finish saving the world, and what is up with Angel and all her independence streak? that was just annoying because she learned in the last book that she shouldn't get into situations where she needs to be saved, and then goes and Max has to go try to save her, even when she doesn't feel like she needs to be saved. ugh. one of the things that really bothered me was that the aut it was awesome! i hope he will write another, but it did leave it with a somewhat satisfying ending. however, she didn't finish saving the world, and what is up with Angel and all her independence streak? that was just annoying because she learned in the last book that she shouldn't get into situations where she needs to be saved, and then goes and Max has to go try to save her, even when she doesn't feel like she needs to be saved. ugh. one of the things that really bothered me was that the author was so contradictory. in the 4th book, it said Brigid was blond, and in this one, she was a redhead. and the second (i think) it said Max had \"Blond-streaked\" hair and said she had brown in this. make up your mind already! it also had a weird feel to it, compared to the other books. however, i loved it and wished it was two or three times longer. ...more I am sure that I might throw this at the wall while in the process of reading . . . Machine Geeks? Come on, Patterson, the Erasers were cooler than that. At least they actually FIGHT something in this one . . . I hope there will be some fang+max stuff . . . save the fish! not really though . . . it looks so gay . . . what happened to itex? i don't think they resolved everything of that matter in the first 3 books . . . i want some good stuff here! okay now i am just venting about how sucky they I am sure that I might throw this at the wall while in the process of reading . . . Machine Geeks? Come on, Patterson, the Erasers were cooler than that. At least they actually FIGHT something in this one . . . I hope there will be some fang+max stuff . . . save the fish! not really though . . . it looks so gay . . . what happened to itex? i don't think they resolved everything of that matter in the first 3 books . . . i want some good stuff here! okay now i am just venting about how sucky they book sounds. Grr. **EDIT** I gained repect for James Patterson again. Though there was stupid random plot twists, stupid environmental issues, I still loved it :)) ...more Oh my god, I LOVE this series, it is soooooooooo epic. I also love The Hunger Games, Percy Jackson, Harry Potter, Alex Rider, The GateKeepers, Dreamhouse Kings, Danial X, Witch and Wizard, Gone, Leven Thumps, H.I.V.E., Sisters Grimm, The Secret Series, The 39 Clues, Pendragon, The Cronos Chronicles, and a lot of other stuff, but that's just right off the top of my head. What am I doing? I must be a glutton for punishment because I keep reading on in the series. Yes, I love James Patterson , but this is just bad. I'm hoping it doesn't taint my overall view of his work. Anyways, with that being said, here are the few many issues I had with this story in general. 1. Max went from being very confused about Fang's intentions and wanting to keep the brother/sister aspect strong to being head over heels in love. They are also only 14 years old. Plus, they live alone and What am I doing? I must be a glutton for punishment because I keep reading on in the series. Yes, I love James Patterson , but this is just bad. I'm hoping it doesn't taint my overall view of his work. Anyways, with that being said, here are the few many issues I had with this story in general. 1. Max went from being very confused about Fang's intentions and wanting to keep the brother/sister aspect strong to being head over heels in love. They are also only 14 years old. Plus, they live alone and travel together, I think it's time they have some supervision. In truth, I'm hoping for a teen pregnancy in a future installment. 2. Max repeatedly made mention of how under educated they are, but smart when it comes to the streets. That is fine and all, but while narrating, she used some big words that I didn't even use until college, and I was well educated prior to that. The writer doesn't necessary have to dumb down the narration, but they should make it a little more believable. 3. Total's storyline got super corny. Yes, I know he loves his dog friend, he is a dog too, but talking about marriage? Really? Even if he understands the concept, I'm sure his lady friend doesn't give a crap. She just wants to sniff his butt and be sniffed in return. 4. Angel was a complete pain in the butt. She kept putting herself and others in extremely dangerous situations. Fortunately for her, she kept getting away unscathed, but someone should discipline her in a way she'd get the message. 5. Jeb was there in the beginning, traveling with the Flock and Max's mom, but once she is kidnapped he disappears? That's strange. However, he does show back up after she is rescued. I'm wondering if that was a set-up for the next book. 6. Last but not least. In fact, this was my biggest peeve, all of Max's lists. She felt necessary to list everything, even if it didn't make sense. Overall, I wasn't that impressed. Despite that fact, I'll probably read the next installment, just because I already have it checked out from the library, but if it gets much worse, I might have to draw the line. So bummed this is going down hill, and fast. ...more Maximum Ride = Marvelous Reading As leader of her Flock, Max is tough and resilient. This bird girl does not give up on her mission to save the world and protect her Flock. She does it all with flair and a sarcastic edge. Despite endless betrayals and growing up in a lab, Max shows that she can have a soft side too. The members of Max\u2019s Flock are tight and they each have unique talents. Fang can disappear if he sits still long enough. Iggy sees everything in white. Nudge is magnetic. The Gasman is Maximum Ride = Marvelous Reading As leader of her Flock, Max is tough and resilient. This bird girl does not give up on her mission to save the world and protect her Flock. She does it all with flair and a sarcastic edge. Despite endless betrayals and growing up in a lab, Max shows that she can have a soft side too. The members of Max\u2019s Flock are tight and they each have unique talents. Fang can disappear if he sits still long enough. Iggy sees everything in white. Nudge is magnetic. The Gasman is an explosives expert. And Angel can read and control minds. This group of bird kids makes an amazing team. I read Fang when it first released not realizing it was part of a series. I know, I know. When I heard about Angel, I decided to read the whole series so I could experience it from the beginning. So, guess what I did last week? I read the whole series. Angel is less action-packed and more touchy-feely than the earlier books. Not quite a romance, but certainly a change. Being girlie and all, I liked seeing this side of Max. Angel leads up to the final challenge that will be included in the eighth book next year. Seriously, I can\u2019t wait a whole year to find out what happens! Oh, and I want to see more Fang. James Patterson is a genius! He has crafted a unique series that takes on some serious issues in a thrilling way. Maximum Ride should be on your bookshelf. If you are like me, you\u2019ll have a hard time putting them down. RATING 5 Loved ...more OK. Prepare for a rant. Starting off with the positives - this was better than the Final Warning. Moving onto the negatives... -The whole thing is random and not relevant to the rest of the series. I mean, we heard basically NOTHING about Erasers and scientists. It was just the random Mr Chu, and some random underwater pollution thing. -Mr Patterson, we hate pollution, global warming and all that crap as much as you do. However, that does not mean we want books about it. We get it - we should be OK. Prepare for a rant. Starting off with the positives - this was better than the Final Warning. Moving onto the negatives... -The whole thing is random and not relevant to the rest of the series. I mean, we heard basically NOTHING about Erasers and scientists. It was just the random Mr Chu, and some random underwater pollution thing. -Mr Patterson, we hate pollution, global warming and all that crap as much as you do. However, that does not mean we want books about it. We get it - we should be doing something about the environment. But why spoil a perfectly awesome series with it? If you ask me, the Maximum Ride series was polluted by all this enviro-junk. -Where the f*** did the action go? In the first three books, there was something exciting happening on every page! That was one of the beauties of it. Now, we're lucky if we get a good fight. And of course, Max&Flock win every single fight (obviously. errDUH) which just makes it boring. Now we just have Fax shoved down our throats. -About Fax. First it was cute. But it's freaking annoying that it's all that the books are being focussed on. How come Max keeps running away from Fang? SHE STARTED IT. REMEMBER HOW SHE KISSED HIM ON THE BEACH? Yeah? -Please, bring back the Erasers. We don't care about freaking... Flyboys or random robot things. The Erasers were more scary than them, anyway! -Give us some answers, PLEASE. What's the voice? What does Max need to save the world from? Mr Patterson, do you even know the answers to these questions??? GAH! I JUST CAN'T BELIEVE THIS SERIES WAS SPOILT SO MUCH. ...more I don't know what has happened to this series?? After Book #3 WHICH WAS AWESOME by the way,the series has deteriorated. I couldn't even get myself to finish this one and book #4 was ok but not good! The story I'm sorry but what is happening?? Suddenly the focus is shifting to Global Warming and where are the criminals coming from and WHY are Max and Fang not together yet?? A little birdy told me (the spoiler could spoil the next books for you ) (view spoiler) [ that Max and Fang don't end up togeth I don't know what has happened to this series?? After Book #3 WHICH WAS AWESOME by the way,the series has deteriorated. I couldn't even get myself to finish this one and book #4 was ok but not good! The story I'm sorry but what is happening?? Suddenly the focus is shifting to Global Warming and where are the criminals coming from and WHY are Max and Fang not together yet?? A little birdy told me (the spoiler could spoil the next books for you ) (view spoiler) [ that Max and Fang don't end up together and some Dylan guy comes into the picture and Fang runs off with max's clone?!! (hide spoiler) ] I mean WTF?? The only reason I was actually forcing myself to finish this was for Max and Fang!(I'm sorry but the story just doesn't hold my attention anymore) The first three books were so great dear author! You should have ended this series then. Why ruin something good by not ending it at the right time? [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more How on earth did a series with so much potential and so much excitement get so bad? This recent installment is better than the fourth book, but nowhere near as exciting as the first. It bugs me how Patterson does a long, dragged out recap of EVERYTHING that's happened beforehand at the beginning of each new book. Ergh. Anyways, contrary to the fourth book, Max actually has a complete plot! It also gives some purpose to the whole \"Save the world from global warming, everybody!\" craze, and kicks it How on earth did a series with so much potential and so much excitement get so bad? This recent installment is better than the fourth book, but nowhere near as exciting as the first. It bugs me how Patterson does a long, dragged out recap of EVERYTHING that's happened beforehand at the beginning of each new book. Ergh. Anyways, contrary to the fourth book, Max actually has a complete plot! It also gives some purpose to the whole \"Save the world from global warming, everybody!\" craze, and kicks it down a notch. Nice save, Patterson, but not good enough. The extent to which the global warming situation was taken-Max speaking to all of Congress telling them to stop hurting the planet, Fang's blog post rallying teens to help prevent global warming-is unforgivable. Although there is a plot line in this book, it is not well-developed. And since when did Max completely decide that she loved Fang? The perfect Fang/Max relations are strange, since the two are constantly fighting even though it's clear that they love each other. I'm disappointed that a promising plot with such awesome, lovable characters could waste potential like this. Ick. ...more It's not like I expected much from this; the only reason I read it was because it was just sitting there at the library, and I had a couple of hours to kill. The flock really isn't doing anything anymore, and they've really devolved from fairly badass characters into mushy, cliched, idiotic teenagers. Come on, Patterson! If I can have some sort of coherent thought process, can't MAX!? I've actually gone through the first three books after reading the stupid-fest that was Max. Were they even writte It's not like I expected much from this; the only reason I read it was because it was just sitting there at the library, and I had a couple of hours to kill. The flock really isn't doing anything anymore, and they've really devolved from fairly badass characters into mushy, cliched, idiotic teenagers. Come on, Patterson! If I can have some sort of coherent thought process, can't MAX!? I've actually gone through the first three books after reading the stupid-fest that was Max. Were they even written by the same person!? I mean, in Max, they even say that she has brown hair. NO SHE DOESN'T. She's BLOND. Patterson, did you forget what your own characters look like!? That's just...irresponsible. Angel changed from being creepy, yet innocent, to just being annoying. Fang's all about being \"hip.\" The rest of the flock is pretty much completely inconsequential. Max literally got stupider. Literally! She asks so many stupid questions, three fourths of the BOOK is EXPOSITION. Really Patterson? REALLY? ...more To be frank, this book was a pile of dog poop. Yes. Dog. Poop. Please. Don't hate on me. I really did love Max. Well... until the third book. GAH. FAAAAANG! *wails* *gets a serious look* Oookay, I'm going to be serious now. It's been what, one, two years since I read this book, so stuff are gonna be fuzzy. Soooo... Starting off. This series should've ended on the third book. Really. Final Warning was god-awful. I almost puked. YES. PUKED. (Oh my, I'll bet the Max fans are puking now.) Hahaha. Wasn't tha To be frank, this book was a pile of dog poop. Yes. Dog. Poop. Please. Don't hate on me. I really did love Max. Well... until the third book. GAH. FAAAAANG! *wails* *gets a serious look* Oookay, I'm going to be serious now. It's been what, one, two years since I read this book, so stuff are gonna be fuzzy. Soooo... Starting off. This series should've ended on the third book. Really. Final Warning was god-awful. I almost puked. YES. PUKED. (Oh my, I'll bet the Max fans are puking now.) Hahaha. Wasn't that just a hilarious joke? Yes. THERE ARE PEOPLE OUT THERE IN THE WORLD THAT HATE THE NEW FANG. Oh yeah. And then their new super powers. WTF?! O_O That was just So. MESSED. UP. They don't need that many super powers. There are things in this world called FLAWS. Learn to use it. ...more *bounces in waiting anticipation* OMG WOW! Max and her flock totally kicked arse in this book! Aaaaaaaaaa!!!!! It's not like Mr. Patterson had some great rep to uphold, but the expectation for fun in this series was set high in the first three books. Impossible, but fun, crazy action with funny bird kids. Number 4 was a wretched turn to lame environmentalism which turned the series into something else and changed the story from a stretch, but interesting to an unbearable fake to make points about global warming. Number 5 suffers from some of the same random, forced environmentalism, but ge Aaaaaaaaaa!!!!! It's not like Mr. Patterson had some great rep to uphold, but the expectation for fun in this series was set high in the first three books. Impossible, but fun, crazy action with funny bird kids. Number 4 was a wretched turn to lame environmentalism which turned the series into something else and changed the story from a stretch, but interesting to an unbearable fake to make points about global warming. Number 5 suffers from some of the same random, forced environmentalism, but gets even worse. Patterson rushed, or just doesn't care, or something. Max, the narrator, was always funny and mouthy, but she becomes a lame stereotype for 90% of this book. Patterson just turned her into every bad idea you can think of having to do with dumb jock, overprotective mother, and lovestruck girl. That sounds like an unlikely mix, but Patterson pulled off the crappy trifecta. The language is over the top, sensationalistic, jarring, and...bad. The kids are genius kids with little formal education and during the story Max has to ask why both Hiroshima and Pearl Harbor are famous. Yet, she comes up with completely random, lame references like: \"I'm not a great sleeper. When you've spent your whole life facing imminent pain and death, you tend not to sink too deeply into the arms of Morpheus.\" \"You've never seen just how mega a megalopolis can be until you've seen Mexico city. I guess there might be bigger burgs in like China or something, but boy howdy, Mexico City seems endless.\" burgs? boy howdy? Has one single living being, not a character in a book or movie, actually uttered either one of those phrases in the last 40 years? Plus their talking dog (he's actually kind of funny) makes reference to wanting to \"play the Dane\" before dying. Anyway, the plot bends to all kinds of crazy, impossible places and the story actually becomes more bearable toward the end. The plot is less believable at that point, but the characters are less annoying. There will apparently be at least one more book. Oooh, and one more extra lame thing. In this, the 5th installment of this popular series where the author obviously made less effort to make the book coherent and enjoyable, there is a special box on the back flap of the bookjacket, right above the author bio, that reads: \"In the spirit of the most enduring hit movies and books, James Patterson has written this story for readers from ten to a hundred and ten. Special care has been taken with the language and content of MAX.\" Huh? What? Really? It's like Patterson has become the publishing equivalent of the soulless companies in the series--he will do or say ANYTHING to make a buck. This book is easily the worst-written book of a weakly-written series, and features some major horizontal, pressed together, and intertwined make-out sessions, a major departure from the platonic teenage angst of the previous books. Max realizes she is in love and she wants to marry Fang. Just read the first 3 and stop. Please. ...more I loved this book! It was the fifth and final instalmant in the Maximum Ride series. The book picks up right where the fourth one left off. It has Max and the flock flying around doing air shows to help raise awareness of what is happening. The kids get shot at and are forced to leave. They go through the book stuggling with their wings and special gifts, discovering new talents and trying to get through life with out getting killed. Max's mom, Doctor Martinez gets kidnapped and it's up to Max I loved this book! It was the fifth and final instalmant in the Maximum Ride series. The book picks up right where the fourth one left off. It has Max and the flock flying around doing air shows to help raise awareness of what is happening. The kids get shot at and are forced to leave. They go through the book stuggling with their wings and special gifts, discovering new talents and trying to get through life with out getting killed. Max's mom, Doctor Martinez gets kidnapped and it's up to Max to save her. When the flock finds out that the Doc is being held under water, they enlist help from the navy. They go through training and are soon on a submarine miles below the ocean's surface. While they're down there terrible things happen, and Max finally realizes she can't do everything herself. I think James Patterson is a great author. As an older man he can write to a younger audiance and still reach us perfectly. I like that he finaly stopped recapping what happened in the past books and stuck to this one. It helped me stay focused on that book not the ones before. I think he did a great thing by incorporating Global Warming and even a little love story in here. It made the book so much more fun. I read this book in one day because I couldn't put it down! Then I read it again because I loved it so much. The title of the book, MAX, fits great because this one is about Max. It's about her struggles as leader and as a teenage girl. Her problems with love AKA Fang and with the flock splitting up. In the end all of it shows the true max. I loved the very last chapter! I thought it was a great way to end the series and it painted a pretty picture in my mind. The books are Max's feelings and thoughts and I think thats why I liked it so much, you could feel the person behind the the book. Besides giving this book a 5 star rating, I'm also gonna give the whole seires a 5 star rating. THey are great books for teenagers seeking adventure and who are trying to save the world. It's nice t know your not the only one, that their are others out there with the same dream! ...more I didn't really enjoy this Maximum Ride book as much as the ones in the Fugitives series. The plot, which started off as 'running for their lives', somehow ended up as 'saving the world'. I really don't get it - does James Patterson mean saving the world, as in environmentally? Because the plots of the series usually focuses on Max getting kidnapped or someone else. In this case, it's Doctor Martinez... Also, I really want to know where all these powers (breathing underwater, invisibility, etc.) I didn't really enjoy this Maximum Ride book as much as the ones in the Fugitives series. The plot, which started off as 'running for their lives', somehow ended up as 'saving the world'. I really don't get it - does James Patterson mean saving the world, as in environmentally? Because the plots of the series usually focuses on Max getting kidnapped or someone else. In this case, it's Doctor Martinez... Also, I really want to know where all these powers (breathing underwater, invisibility, etc.) come from, and what are they for? Where did Max's voice come from? What happened to Itex? Who is Jeb really? What was the purpose of the chip? Why haven't all those questions been answered - they've been repeated, some of them answered falsely (like the voice), and all of them still remain unknown. I want answers!!! Well, yes, it's true - there are so many small plots throughout the story, but almost all of them are resolved within 10 pages after they were presented! It's just that the characters seem too perfect and faultless! They don't have any weaknesses and their personalities hardly change. To explain what I mean - well, firstly, they can fly, they can breathe underwater, they're stronger than most adults, they've got super IQ, they can develop powers, they're very tough, they can survive on their own, and the list goes on. The villains are almost the opposite - they all seem to have strange, unnaturally evil plans, and they only intend to do harm, which doesn't make sense. They just seem too wicked to be natural, and I don't get their illogical intentions. ...more After ordering this book at the library in March, it finally came in yesterday. I was incredibly excited and started it immediately. And then I finished it. What a letdown it was! If I were simply comparing this book to the fourth book, it would get four or five stars. But I'm writing a review, so it gets two stars. And here's why: 1. Nothing makes sense anymore. Why did the flock develop superpowers? There is absolutely no explanation for that. Especially the gills. Gills? Seriously? 2. The serie After ordering this book at the library in March, it finally came in yesterday. I was incredibly excited and started it immediately. And then I finished it. What a letdown it was! If I were simply comparing this book to the fourth book, it would get four or five stars. But I'm writing a review, so it gets two stars. And here's why: 1. Nothing makes sense anymore. Why did the flock develop superpowers? There is absolutely no explanation for that. Especially the gills. Gills? Seriously? 2. The series has officially turned green. And by that, I mean eco-friendly. Of course, I'm all for going green and everything, but the Maximum Ride series isn't a good place to teach kids about global warming. At this point, the series is just a PSA, but with a new twist--flying children. How exciting! 3. I miss the old days of Maximum Ride, when nobody knew about their avian DNA and surviving was a challenge. Now, they're admired and coddled everywhere they go. 4. The characters were a lot more interesting in the first three books. Now, they're just Mary-Sues. I could go on for a while, but I'll move on to the kind part of this review. I gave this book two stars and not one because: 1. Total and Akila. I just thought that they were incredibly cute together. 2. Max and Fang. All I can say is, yay! 3. As I stated earlier, this was a huge improvement over the fourth book. Overall, it isn't the worst book I've ever read. But I certainly wouldn't recommend it. ...more Basic Info Format: Audio Pages/Length: n/a Genre: Young Adult; Fantasy At A Glance Love Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Obsession Cliff Hanger: eh Triggers: n/a Rating: 2 stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 6 Plot: 4 Characters: 5 World Building: 4 Flow: 5 Series Congruity: 6 Writing: 5 Ending: 5 Total: 5 In Dept Best Part: Short! Worst Part: Bored. Thoughts Had: SHUT UP! Conclusion Continuing the Series: ehhhhhhhhh Recommending: No. Short Review: Hey do you remember that these kids had gills, i sure as hell do Basic Info Format: Audio Pages/Length: n/a Genre: Young Adult; Fantasy At A Glance Love Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Obsession Cliff Hanger: eh Triggers: n/a Rating: 2 stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 6 Plot: 4 Characters: 5 World Building: 4 Flow: 5 Series Congruity: 6 Writing: 5 Ending: 5 Total: 5 In Dept Best Part: Short! Worst Part: Bored. Thoughts Had: SHUT UP! Conclusion Continuing the Series: ehhhhhhhhh Recommending: No. Short Review: Hey do you remember that these kids had gills, i sure as hell don't SINCE IT WAS ALMOST NEVER MENTIONED TIL THIS DAMN BOOK. Also did you know they were in a submarine, I DO BECAUSE THEY FREAKING MENTION IT A THOUSAND DAMN TIMES! Did you know Max loves Fang, I DO BECAUSE SHE NEVER STOPS TALKING/THINKING ABOUT HIM. Did you know he is trying to make Max jealous by talking to this other girl, I DO BECAUSE MAX COMPLAINS ABOUT IT EVERY 5 MINS!!! FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF. Hate it. Misc. Book Boyfriend: NO! Best Friend Material: NO! ...more Imagine having wings and superpowers. For Max and her flock it's actually true ! But within the wings package, they also have lots of trouble and responsibility. Like saving the world from crazy polluters and protecting themselves from robots. Will Max and her flock be able to save the world or will all their efforts go to waste? I picked up this book because I simply loved the previous books in this series. They were all breathtakingly amazing and I also fell in love with the whole concept of ha Imagine having wings and superpowers. For Max and her flock it's actually true ! But within the wings package, they also have lots of trouble and responsibility. Like saving the world from crazy polluters and protecting themselves from robots. Will Max and her flock be able to save the world or will all their efforts go to waste? I picked up this book because I simply loved the previous books in this series. They were all breathtakingly amazing and I also fell in love with the whole concept of having wings ! After reading the last book, Final Warning I just had to read the next book, Max. I finished this book because I wanted to know if the flock would be able to save the world, from people who were polluting the ocean. Besides who would want to back away from the intense adventures of this flock? I sure wouldn't. I would recommend this book to Vaishni, because she read the previous books in this series. I think she needs the motivation to continue reading the books because it does get better, don't worry ;) ...more So, I'm rereading this series for the thousandth time (I can;'t help it, I love these books. Stop judging me) and I've forgotten how much happens in the last three book. (view spoiler) [ I will think about things like Dylan, and Max forgiving Fang about Maya (Max 2) or even how Angel was the voice. (hide spoiler) ] I've also forgotten how much The Final Warning and Max talk about global warming. At first I was thinking \"okay, that sounds legit\", but then everyone was talking about global warming f So, I'm rereading this series for the thousandth time (I can;'t help it, I love these books. Stop judging me) and I've forgotten how much happens in the last three book. (view spoiler) [ I will think about things like Dylan, and Max forgiving Fang about Maya (Max 2) or even how Angel was the voice. (hide spoiler) ] I've also forgotten how much The Final Warning and Max talk about global warming. At first I was thinking \"okay, that sounds legit\", but then everyone was talking about global warming facts. That's when it all goes downhill. (view spoiler) [ when Dylan shows up and Fang leaves with Maya is when everything gets interesting. (hide spoiler) ] Max and Fang have a cycle: Fly somewhere. Kiss forever. Max flies away. Act like nothing happened next day. Repeat. Lord help 'em. ...more this is nothing but my personal opinion and im not going to bash on james patterson but the first three original max books i read them as soon as they came out for the very first time they were amazing and i immediately fell in love with Patterson for those of you who read the original three books now that i read the add ons i think his writing style has changed for the worst in my opinion i found books four and on pretty boring and read up till book 6 for the sake of my love of the orginal thre this is nothing but my personal opinion and im not going to bash on james patterson but the first three original max books i read them as soon as they came out for the very first time they were amazing and i immediately fell in love with Patterson for those of you who read the original three books now that i read the add ons i think his writing style has changed for the worst in my opinion i found books four and on pretty boring and read up till book 6 for the sake of my love of the orginal three books but i stopped because i couldn't take the stories anymore James Patterson nowadays is doing a whole bunch of collaborations with other authors and maybe that's why his style seems so changed and at one point i think he released about like eight books in one year and most authors release one a year i think his workings on numerous books at the same time have greatly affected the quality of his writing i wouldn't recommend the maximum ride books past the first three books they were the best and reading the series that came after kind makes me feel a little sad ...more This book... THIS BOOK WAS TERRIBLE. This series started off being great, where I gave a 4 + 5 star for the first two in the series. But at the 3rd, it goes down in a shit storm. This book was so stupid. Oh hey, lets not be fun and entertaining, lets save the environment! (not that the environment shouldn't be saved, but it's a YA book for Christs sake) Radiation has formed something bad... Something bad, that's what, it's a moving island. What? It can think? It can think in English? It wants to This book... THIS BOOK WAS TERRIBLE. This series started off being great, where I gave a 4 + 5 star for the first two in the series. But at the 3rd, it goes down in a shit storm. This book was so stupid. Oh hey, lets not be fun and entertaining, lets save the environment! (not that the environment shouldn't be saved, but it's a YA book for Christs sake) Radiation has formed something bad... Something bad, that's what, it's a moving island. What? It can think? It can think in English? It wants to destroy everything?... ahah... NO. This series should have stopped at no.3 (or even 2) Wouldn't recommend this to anyone whatsoever. ...more It doesn't even deserve one star. Seriously, it's more like a negative five (or 100) star book. Worst book I've read this summer. I mean, giant radiation mutated penguins with human-like intelligence and excessive mucus... SERIOUSLY???? And it all winds down to Global Warming (pronounce with mock-creepy emphasis). Talk about indoctrination. What a load of garbage. I won't read the NEXT one (because I'm sure there will be one), and if I so much as look at it, will someone slap me, please?", "Title": "Max"},
