{"Comments": "<+++>Dangerous Laughter</+++> by <---A>Steven Millhauser</---A> is a difficult book to rate. It is a collection of short stories, but one has stretch the definition of \"story\" by quite a lot to call some of them by that name. Many are what can be called \"sketches\" - of an idea, of a person or of a situation. All of them are idea driven: the characters are placed there just to serve as vehicles for the ideas (in this aspect, and with respect to the weirdness of the tales, Millhauser resembles Lord Dunsany to a great ext <+++>Dangerous Laughter</+++> by Steven Millhauser is a difficult book to rate. It is a collection of short stories, but one has stretch the definition of \"story\" by quite a lot to call some of them by that name. Many are what can be called \"sketches\" - of an idea, of a person or of a situation. All of them are idea driven: the characters are placed there just to serve as vehicles for the ideas (in this aspect, and with respect to the weirdness of the tales, Millhauser resembles Lord Dunsany to a great extent).<---F> These stories are weird - seriously</---F>. The author does not want to present us with a set of believable characters and describe a situation in which they develop; rather, he throws us an idea which is taken to its logical extreme by the characters involved. This method,<---M> while it provides some startling reading experiences</---M>, pales after a time and begins to feel seriously gimmicky. --------------------------------------------- Millhauser has structured the book in four parts: the first one, a prologue of sorts, containing one story and the remaining three four stories each. Each of these three sections have a certain thematic unity, and encourages the reader to explore various aspects of the same meta-theme. The first section is an \"Opening Cartoon\", the familiar Tom & Jerry animated short I used to love before each MGM movie as a kid. The story, titled \"Cat and Mouse\", gives a blow-by-blow description the endless rivalry between Tom Cat and Jerry Mouse. The language is simple, and one can visualise the scene with each sentence. However, as the tale progresses, both the mouse and the cat begin to introspect and bring their existential angst on to their Sisyphus-like antagonistic existence. This is a fantastic story, and pulled me into the book. The second section, \"Vanishing Acts\", is about human beings and their existence in the temporal world. In a sense, this is also an existential analysis. There is a vanished girl, who slowly fades from the communal memory but comes to haunt the memory of the narrator, even though he is not sure he knows her; the asexual relationship between a boy and a girl in a totally darkened room, relying only the verbal and the tactile; dangerous infectious laughter which kills off its addicts; and a person who gets increasingly alienated from the physical world through the perceived insufficiency of language. The third section (\"Impossible Architectures\") is about the relation of man to the structures he builds up. They contain the unbelievably large (a climate-controlled dome covering the whole of the United States of America, an engineering analysis of an alternate Tower of Babel), the impossibly small (miniatures so small as to be totally invisible) and the totally meaningless (a town which is a carbon copy of the one inhabited by the protagonists). The last section, which is titled \"Heretical Histories\", gives us four tales of impossible historical happenings in what must be a time stream totally different from our own. The first story in this section about a historical society which is obsessed with preserving history down to the last detail, because the past is the only thing that really \"exists\" - the present is ephemeral and the future, nonexistent. Of the remaining three stories, one talks about a weird fashion fad where the dress grows in opacity and size and ultimately ends up concealing the woman totally and taking on a life of its own; one is about a painter who apparently discovers a way to incorporate time and motion into his creations; and the last one is about an alternate Edison, one of whose assistants invents a machine which can simulate the sense of touch. --------------------------------------------- This book made me think a lot about my experiences as a human being - about time, objects, experiences and emotions. Lacking sympathetic characters, one is immediately drawn to the idea behind the tale. The stories are very readable and enjoyable as a sort of brain exercise. However, they felt repetitive after a while. An enjoyable read, if you are a person who reads with the intellect. ...more Steven Millhauser, nacido en Nueva York en 1943, ganador del Premio Pulitzer por \u2018Martin Dressler\u2019, es un escritor esquivo, al estilo de Salinger y Pynchon, un escritor que huye de las entrevistas y al que no le gusta ser fotografiado. Hace unos a\u00f1os, salt\u00f3 a la fama cuando se adapt\u00f3 un cuento suyo, \u2018Eisenheim el ilusionista\u2019, dando lugar a la m\u00e1s que aceptable pel\u00edcula \u2018El ilusionista\u2019. Millhauser es un escritor dado a incluir elementos fant\u00e1sticos en sus historias, algo que puede echar atr\u00e1s a Steven Millhauser, nacido en Nueva York en 1943, ganador del Premio Pulitzer por \u2018Martin Dressler\u2019, es un escritor esquivo, al estilo de Salinger y Pynchon, un escritor que huye de las entrevistas y al que no le gusta ser fotografiado. Hace unos a\u00f1os, salt\u00f3 a la fama cuando se adapt\u00f3 un cuento suyo, \u2018Eisenheim el ilusionista\u2019, dando lugar a la m\u00e1s que aceptable pel\u00edcula \u2018El ilusionista\u2019. Millhauser es un escritor dado a incluir elementos fant\u00e1sticos en sus historias, algo que puede echar atr\u00e1s a m\u00e1s de un lector afecto del realismo m\u00e1s puro. Considero que ser\u00eda una l\u00e1stima perderse la lectura de estos relatos por tal nimiedad. Borges, del que Millhauser bebe en algunos de sus relatos, no dudaba al utilizar lo fant\u00e1stico a la hora de escribir, y no creo que nadie dude de su calidad. Pero vayamos con la extraordinaria \u2018Risas peligrosas\u2019 , donde Millhauser nos muestra una mirada a la adolescencia y la soledad de sus protagonistas, a la invenci\u00f3n de extra\u00f1os aparatos y de personajes memorables, o a la memoria de la historia con elementos ap\u00f3crifos. Lo que hace de Millhauser un gran escritor es su capacidad para sugerir situaciones extra\u00f1as y perturbadoras, que provocan en el lector una sensaci\u00f3n desconcertante. Y es que Millhauser es sin\u00f3nimo de imaginaci\u00f3n. Distorsiona la historia a su conveniencia, sin que falte el ingenio, la inteligencia y la sensibilidad a la hora de escribir, haciendo uso de una prosa precisa y m\u00e1s que notable. Partiendo de hechos sencillos, va construyendo sus historias a base de ir a\u00f1adiendo detalles y m\u00e1s detalles a la trama, sin dejar de asombrarnos. Los cuentos incluidos en \u2018Risas peligrosas\u2019 est\u00e1n englobados en cuatro secciones: DIBUJOS DE APERTURA El rat\u00f3n y el gato. Serie de vi\u00f1etas noveladas de las persecuciones de un gato a un rat\u00f3n (y viceversa), al estilo Tom & Jerry. Muy bien escrito, sorprender\u00e1 a quien no conozca de estos dos tunantes. ACTOS DE DESAPARICI\u00d3N La desaparici\u00f3n de Elaine Coleman. Elaine ha desaparecido de su apartamento, de repente. Nadie la recuerda muy bien, apenas algunos esbozos. Es como si no hubiese dejado ninguna huella en la memoria de las personas. El protagonista intentar\u00e1 buscar la raz\u00f3n a este hecho. La habitaci\u00f3n de la buhardilla. Un chico hace amistad con un compa\u00f1ero de clase, el cu\u00e1l le llevar\u00e1 a su casa, lugar donde se oculta un secreto. Perturbador, impresionante. Risas peligrosas. Un grupo de adolescentes, en los a\u00f1os cincuenta, aburridos de hacer siempre lo mismo, empieza a practicar un juego que parece una leyenda urbana, consistente en juntarse para provocarse ataques de risa hasta llegar al extremo. Lo que parece un mero pasatiempo, puede convertirse en una obsesi\u00f3n. Historia de un trastorno. Un hombre deja de hablar al darse cuenta de que las palabras ya no significan nada para \u00e9l, que la palabra asociada a un objeto dado ha dejado de tener sentido para \u00e9l. Millhauser describe a la perfecci\u00f3n la extra\u00f1a sensaci\u00f3n, que todo el mundo ha tenido alguna vez, de darle vueltas a una palabra en la boca porque de repente nos parece irreal. ARQUITECTURAS IMPOSIBLES La c\u00fapula. Poco a poco, va extendi\u00e9ndose entre la poblaci\u00f3n el cubrir sus casas con una c\u00fapula transparente. En el reino de Harad IV. Historia del miniaturista m\u00e1s grande que jam\u00e1s ha existido, y su obsesi\u00f3n por alcanzar la perfecci\u00f3n. La otra ciudad. Historia sobre una ciudad que tiene un duplicado de todo lo que contiene, reflejo perfecto de ella misma, y donde sus habitantes visitan como si de un museo se tratase. La Torre. Como si de la Torre de Babel se tratase, la historia nos narra la construcci\u00f3n de una torre que llega hasta el cielo, y donde es posible vivir toda una vida antes de llegar al final de su ascensi\u00f3n, de tal manera que hay gente que se queda a vivir en sus diferentes niveles. HISTORIAS HER\u00c9TICAS Aqu\u00ed en la Sociedad Hist\u00f3rica. Historia donde se nos narra el af\u00e1n de una sociedad de archiveros obsesionados por el pasado, desde el m\u00e1s remoto hasta el que acaba de pasar hace un momento. Un cambio de moda. Ha surgido una nueva moda femenina: cubrirse completamente con sus vestidos. Donde antes se ense\u00f1aba, ahora no se ve nada de piel. Un precursor del cine. A finales del siglo XIX, parece ser que existi\u00f3 un pintor cuyos cuadros pose\u00edan la extra\u00f1a cualidad del movimiento. Impresionante relato. Un mago de West Orange. Un grupo de genios est\u00e1 trabajando en la invenci\u00f3n de un extra\u00f1o aparato, el hapt\u00f3grafo, capaz de reproducir el tacto. De nuevo genial. Sin duda alguna, Steven Millhauser es un ilusionista. En un sentido oscuro, ten\u00eda la sensaci\u00f3n de que mi secreta afici\u00f3n a la lectura era una forma de abrirme paso cavando hacia ese lugar subterr\u00e1neo donde me aguardaba una versi\u00f3n mejor o m\u00e1s aut\u00e9ntica de m\u00ed mismo. ...more I rarely buy short story collections unless I'm already familiar with the author, and before this I had never heard of Steven Millhauser (or I thought I hadn't, anyway - it wasn't until I finished the book and read the author bio that I realized he was the guy who wrote \"Eisenheim the Illusionist,\" which was the basis for the movie The Illusionist ). I never would have read this on my own, but luckily I have an awesome relative who, for my Christmas gift one year, gave me secondhand copies of thr I rarely buy short story collections unless I'm already familiar with the author, and before this I had never heard of Steven Millhauser (or I thought I hadn't, anyway - it wasn't until I finished the book and read the author bio that I realized he was the guy who wrote \"Eisenheim the Illusionist,\" which was the basis for the movie The Illusionist ). I never would have read this on my own, but luckily I have an awesome relative who, for my Christmas gift one year, gave me secondhand copies of three of her favorite books. Dangerous Laughter was one of them, and I can see why it's her favorite. It might be one of my new favorites, too. None of these stories take place in the real world. It's close to our world, but things are just slightly off. People make choices, or perform an action, or build something, and then they continue on that route, taking things to a new extreme that you had never expected: in \"In the Reign of Harad IV\" a king's craftsman, renowned for making miniatures, makes smaller and smaller objects, until his work passes beyond even magnified sight. \"A Precursor of the Cinema\" documents the career of a mysterious Belle Epoque painter who, not satisfied with hyper-realistic paintings, creates paintings that can move on their own. In the title story, a group of bored teenagers invent a game where the goal is to laugh longer than anyone else, and it results in a girl laughing herself to death. And then there are stories where he takes a simple idea and looks at it closer than you ever even considered, and considers aspects that you had never even thought of. The first story, \"Cat and Mouse\" is a straightforward, almost clinically dry description of the Tom-and-Jerry-like feud of a cat and a mouse (\"The cat crashes into the wall and folds up like an accordion. Slowly he unfolds, emitting accordion music. He lies on the floor with his chin on his upraised paw, one eyebrow lifting high in disgust, the claws of his other forepaw tapping the floorboards. A small piece of plaster drops on his head.\"), and then it suddenly goes deep into the psychology behind these cartoon archetypes, and I'm never going to see Tom and Jerry the same way again: \"[The cat] despises the mouse's physical delicacy, his weak arms as thin as the teeth of combs, his frail, crushable skull, his fondness for books and solitude. At the same time, he is irritably aware that he admires the mouse's elegance, his air of culture, his easy self-assurance. Why is he always reading? In a sense, the mouse intimidates the cat: in his presence, the cat feels clumsy and foolish. He thinks obsessively about the mouse and suspects with rage that the mouse frequently does not think about him at all, there in his brown room. If the mouse were less indifferent, would he burn with such hatred? Might they learn the live peacefully together in the same house? Would he be released from this pain of outrage in his heart?\" An eerie, surreal, and fascinating collection. Should be savored slowly, one story at a time, supplemented with lots of tea and frequent pauses to gaze out the nearest window in contemplation. ...more Dangerous Laughter by Steven Millhauser (Knopf, 2008). Of all the writers I know, Steven Millhauser has probably the most uncanny imagination, the biggest range in themes, and at the same time, the most recognizable (ie., unique) style. The first story in Dangerous Laughter, \u201cCat\u2019 n\u2019 Mouse,\u201d is written like a precise report of a Tom and Jerry cartoon. In fact, having watched dozens of episodes of the latter as a teenager (on Romanian TV!), I am convinced that Millhauser has written many of the pas Dangerous Laughter by Steven Millhauser (Knopf, 2008). Of all the writers I know, Steven Millhauser has probably the most uncanny imagination, the biggest range in themes, and at the same time, the most recognizable (ie., unique) style. The first story in Dangerous Laughter, \u201cCat\u2019 n\u2019 Mouse,\u201d is written like a precise report of a Tom and Jerry cartoon. In fact, having watched dozens of episodes of the latter as a teenager (on Romanian TV!), I am convinced that Millhauser has written many of the passages while watching the cartoon. \u201cThe Room in the Attic\u201d reminds me of Dickens. As in many of Millhauser\u2019s stories, the narrator is a teenager fascinated with another boy his age, or rather, with the mysterious, wondrous world his friend gives him access to. The recurrent theme of the initiation into another, mysterious world, which often happens to exist across from our own home, is paralleled by the locus of the dark room as a variation on the magic behind the velvet curtain at the movie theater. Several of the stories in this collection\u2014\u201cThe Dome,\u201d \u201cThe Tower,\u201d \u201cThe Other Town\u201d\u2014revolve around an architectural theme, which is one of Millhauser\u2019s preoccupations. In this, he is truly a creator, as he imagines alternative architectural possibilities to the ones we are familiar with: an entire town, then the entire country, covered by a dome, like a huge mall; a town, which is an exact replica of its neighboring town; and an imperfect version of the Tower of Babel, inhabited by humans. This would have been one of my favorite Millhauser collections had it not been for the last part. Though interesting conceptually (For instance, \u201cA Precursor of the Cinema\u201d is fascinating as a combination of historical fact and fiction, not to mention a hidden reference to Balzac\u2019s Le Chef-d\u2019oeuvre inconnu through the character\u2019s \u201cself-erasure.\u201d) these stories were a bit tedious. Still, Millhauser is, as far as I am concerned, the best contemporary American writer. ...more I had heard quite a bit about Millhauser being this great modern practitioner of the modern short story and then I read his essay about \"The Ambition of the Short Story\" in the New York Times Book Review and wanted to give him a shot, but ultimately I found this collection wanting. The stories seem to make their point and then stretch themselves and then overstretch themselves and then beat you over the head with their message. The first story, a story that people seem to be tripping oversleves t I had heard quite a bit about Millhauser being this great modern practitioner of the modern short story and then I read his essay about \"The Ambition of the Short Story\" in the New York Times Book Review and wanted to give him a shot, but ultimately I found this collection wanting. The stories seem to make their point and then stretch themselves and then overstretch themselves and then beat you over the head with their message. The first story, a story that people seem to be tripping oversleves to praise, is nothing more than a deftly annotated Tom and Jerry cartoon with nothing much in the way of insight. The last story is written in a style that I found utterly maddening (how can a series of journal entries both capture a rushed excitement with its clipped sentences and a deliberate act of writing down the day's events complete with dialogue and details?!) Maybe that's the point though... Most of the stories here deal with the shortcomings of language and art to capture life's experiences. In that goal, Millhauser has succeeded - the short stories collected here fail to affect. In fact, the stories are most painful when they try to create emotion; it's a faux-emotion, a faux-mote. Each story had its individual moment(s) of interest, but \"The Tower\" was the only story that held my attention throughout because the nuance and twists seemed the least cloying. *** I think this review comes off as more brutal than I intended, but I think its accurate in my estimation of the book. I didn't hate it, but I won't be seeking out Millhauser in the near future. ...more This batch of freaky fables is like a trip to the Museum of Human Frailty: each story a carefully composed diorama displaying realms of excess, obsession, and emptiness. Although I really did enjoy this collection (particularly the haunting \"Vanishing Acts\" section) I was a little disappointed in the predictable trajectory of the \"Impossible Architectures\" stories: one idea after another is pursued to the oblivion of its logical extreme, which got to be a bit redundant and numbing after a point. This batch of freaky fables is like a trip to the Museum of Human Frailty: each story a carefully composed diorama displaying realms of excess, obsession, and emptiness. Although I really did enjoy this collection (particularly the haunting \"Vanishing Acts\" section) I was a little disappointed in the predictable trajectory of the \"Impossible Architectures\" stories: one idea after another is pursued to the oblivion of its logical extreme, which got to be a bit redundant and numbing after a point. There's a detatchment in the telling of these tales, but I think the lack of pathos contributes to their impact. The stories of disconnection and negation in \"Vanishing Acts\" are well served by this narrative style, evoking loneliness and a sort of gnawing dread. Like I said, haunting stuff. I'll probably check out more Millhauser, but not \"Enchanted Night\". I heard that one employs the use of the term \"love-lance\" and I can't hang with that kind of lingo. ...more I really liked the first few stories, a LOT. Then I was surprised when it switched into this third-rate Borges cerebral fairy tale stuff. I love Borges. Maybe part of why Borges is so good is, he knew when an idea only warranted a paragraph or two. As for this book, I would recommend getting it and reading the first few stories and then stopping and if you want to read some cerebral fairy tales, get yourself some Borges. Thanks to a good friend, I have now been introduced to this exceptional writer. It always pleases me to find new, inventive writers who touch on my interests yet are writing in the \"lit\" world, as it implies to me a continuum of writing, without having to resort to either strict definitions of genre, nor this modern silliness of \"there are no genres\" or \"lit is also a genre\". I believe in porous borders. In a way, the joy of these stories come in each unfolding to the reading eye like a paper flo Thanks to a good friend, I have now been introduced to this exceptional writer. It always pleases me to find new, inventive writers who touch on my interests yet are writing in the \"lit\" world, as it implies to me a continuum of writing, without having to resort to either strict definitions of genre, nor this modern silliness of \"there are no genres\" or \"lit is also a genre\". I believe in porous borders. In a way, the joy of these stories come in each unfolding to the reading eye like a paper flower touched with a drop of water, so I'll not delve too deeply. To those who would like to approach the book as an unknown, I will say: this was, quite frankly, an excellent book and well worth anyone's times, especially those who like \"supernatural\" or \"weird\" tales, but long for the sharp writing a literary author excels at. Millhauser's strengths lie in an inventive mind, a gift for non-belabored (or far-seeing) metaphor, a solid but subdued amount of verbiage (he is no over-writer), an understanding of how little one needs to tell a story and the ability to, in some cases, strongly evoke the mind-state of young adolescence, and in other cases write in a historical mode without it sounding modern or stuffy. The book is divided into 3 sections (with an opening \"cartoon\", which is one of my favorite stories - \"Cat 'n' Mouse\", in which the philosophical quandaries faced by Tom and Jerry/Itchy and Scratchy are examined in depth) - Vanishing Acts, Impossible architectures and Heretical Histories. Vanishing Acts contain the most human-level stories, tales in which human beings fade away or never were (or never were what we thought they were), where ideas like identity and person-hood are tested and found wanting, or open to reveal themselves as elaborate tricks we pull on ourselves. \"The Disappearance of Elaine Coleman\" - in which a plain young woman comes home from work, locks her door and vanishes, is supremely touching, reminding me both of classic \"disappearance\" cases I used to read in Charles Fort as a kid, and, in the narrator's discovery that he both knew and didn't know Elaine, something like an old episode of the Dragnet radio show called \"Helen Korday\". \"The Room In The Attic\" is an exercise in tactility (I should note here that one of the other very nice things is that there are secret thematic passages between unrelated short stories in this collection, so the later \"The Wizard of West Orange\" is also about tactility, and a tiny fly on a basket of apples links \"In The Reign of Harad IV\" and \"A Precursor of the Cinema\") in which a young boy becomes friends with a girl in a darkened room. This story reminded me strongly of the non-science fiction work of Ray Bradbury , as it evokes a wistful longing and a younger age, all encapsulated in a summer. \"Dangerous Laughter\" certainly deserves the titular slot for the collection, an amazing tour de force about adolescent fads and the dangers of laughter - at first it seems to be a metaphor about blooming sexuality, but as that is addressed in an aside, I think more there's something here about drugs and, generally, modern society's need for novelty and sensation, and how it affects young people just learning how to be alive. A masterful story! The section finishes out with \"History of a Disturbance\" in which a man begins to examine too closely the language that holds the world together - it struck me as a smart mix of William S. Burroughs and Jorge Luis Borges - in many ways, Millhauser strikes me as a distinctly American Borges. Impossible Architecture delves into another area Millhauser excels at: \"ad absurdums\", either in an object or a concept, larger or smaller or repeated infinitely. Those who desire characters in their fiction may balk at these pieces, which are more about spinning an idea into new and revelatory directions. In \"The Dome\" (which someone with knowledge should contrast to Stephen King 's similar bookstop-sized foray into the same idea), a mad futurist drive for \"protection\" and the controlled theater of capital, linked to ideas like gated communities and the world economy, is extrapolated exponentially. The idea combines a Futurist love of technology and control with a decadent love for the artificial and disgust with the natural. \"In The Reign of Harad IV\" involves a love of miniatures taken too far, and reminds me of the Surrealist's love of miniatures in all forms, as a bizare, distorted reflection of reality and a placement of life into a larger hierarchy of scale. The fascination with reproduction is explored in \"The Other Town\", in which a small community has a deliberately replicated, yet empty, doppelganger that it maintains and which serves a number of purposes both psychological and philosophical. This seems like it could be a metaphor about any number of things - at first literature, then television or artificial representation in general, and finally, death. \"The Tower\", another outstanding piece, spins the concept of the Tower of Babel into a meditation on progress, culture and history - amazing stuff that any fantasy novelist would probably write 6 series books about and not get close to the complexity achieved here. Heretical Histories charts ideas about history or histories of ideas, in the last two instances melding the character tales of the initial segment with the concept invention of the secondary section. \"Here At The Historical Society\" is a slight but entertaining piece in which official cultural institutions attempt to grapple with the ephemerality of modern life - like museums meet the Fluxus art movement. \"A Change In Fashion\" is a whimsical piece in which fashion, at a dead-end, advances in bizarre new directions that eventually merge with architecture. \"A Precursor of the Cinema\" is another amazing piece, about a forgotten painter and his mysterious explorations into \"moving pictures\" that eventually cause a riot. Quite creepy in spots, it's a story to be marveled at. \"The Wizard of West Orange\" is another historical tale, obliquely about Thomas Edison and his mad rush of genius that, for a short time, encompasses a machine to record and play back tactility. The story, told from the POV of a test subject, advances almost into lysergic levels of expanded consciousness, reminding me of H.P. Lovecraft 's classic \"From Beyond\", while the sketch of Edison recalled Auguste Villiers de l'Isle-Adam 's Edison as technological wizard in Tomorrow's Eve . A simply amazing book. Not a dud in the bunch! ...more the thirteen short stories that comprise dangerous laughter are richly imagined and refreshingly inventive. after being unexpectedly charmed by the first five stories, however, the remainder of the book, for me, veered ever too closely to the realm of tedium. perhaps reading each story as they had first appeared in print (in the new yorker, tin house, harper's, et al) may have allowed their bewitching effects to endure, but reading them all in succession within this collection lent them an air o the thirteen short stories that comprise dangerous laughter are richly imagined and refreshingly inventive. after being unexpectedly charmed by the first five stories, however, the remainder of the book, for me, veered ever too closely to the realm of tedium. perhaps reading each story as they had first appeared in print (in the new yorker, tin house, harper's, et al) may have allowed their bewitching effects to endure, but reading them all in succession within this collection lent them an air of redundancy and affectation. without doubt, millhauser is quite the gifted storyteller and while his pieces often leave one dazzled and enchanted, they sometimes seem a touch too carefully crafted. his stories evoke the easy and natural wonder of childhood curiosity yet are executed with an such exacting command of plot & prose so as to encourage a look behind the proverbial curtain. it's as if millhauser had designed a tantalizingly amusing game, reminiscent of a carefree youth, yet encumbers it by needless rules and regulations. the facade of wonderment is so easily penetrated, and though sometimes millhauser seems effortlessly at home within the province of magic and possibility, other times he seems like an exploitative intruder, the grown-up with no business revisiting the land he outgrew so long ago. as i've noted, i began by enjoying these stories immensely, delighted by their ease and simplicity. upon finishing the last few stories, however, i felt somewhat annoyed, as if i'd discovered that i was merely a pawn in an elaborate ruse. it very well may be that if savored slowly, say one or two a week, these stories could be enjoyed as they really ought to be. dangerous laughter is like an oversized bag of halloween candy ever too easy to overindulge in, and having done so, leaves one wishing they had taken it a bit slower from the start. the strongest pieces in this collection include \"the room in the attic,\" \"the other town,\" \"the tower\" and \"here at the historical society.\" \"the disappearance of elaine coleman\" is a veritable gem. she is not alone. on street corners at dusk, in the corridors of dark movie theaters, behind the windows of cars in parking lots at melancholy shopping centers illuminated by pale orange lamps, you sometimes see them, the elaine colemans of the world. they lower their eyes, they turn away, they vanish into shadowy places. sometimes i seem to see, through their nearly transparent skin, a light or a building behind them. i try to catch their eyes, to penetrate them with my attention, but it's always too late, already they are fading, fixed as they are in the long habit of not being noticed. and perhaps the police, who suspected foul play, were not in the end mistaken. for we are no longer innocent, we who do not see and do not remember, we incurious ones, we conspirators in disappearance. ...more My cursor hovered over the five-star for a second there. Close to it, man. I happened upon this book in one of the best ways: aimlessly browsing a used-book-store. Picked it out and it instantly felt right, you know -- in a way I haven't had in awhile; knowing that this is the exact right time to read a certain book. I'd never heard of Steven Millhauser. The cover weirded me out. But the writing style. God. Reading Millhauser is like...like. It's like reading the short stories of a modern American My cursor hovered over the five-star for a second there. Close to it, man. I happened upon this book in one of the best ways: aimlessly browsing a used-book-store. Picked it out and it instantly felt right, you know -- in a way I haven't had in awhile; knowing that this is the exact right time to read a certain book. I'd never heard of Steven Millhauser. The cover weirded me out. But the writing style. God. Reading Millhauser is like...like. It's like reading the short stories of a modern American Borges. Still alienating in their grand strangeness, brilliant and unsettling and sweeping, but culturally relatable. A comfort zone that jabs a finger into your side reallyreallyreallyfuckinghard. Magic realism is one of my favourite genres, particularly in short stories; Millhauser takes it and spins it realistically, bitingly, into venues that tip their hat to North American concerns. The effect is stunning. Conceptually, this collection hinges on visibility. What and how do we see, and more importantly: how and why are we seen ? Exceptionally sequenced, artfully conceived, and gorgeously written. The only reason I didn't hit five stars were the first and last stories -- while interesting, they lacked the one-two-KO punch effects of the others (though that last passage of \"The Wizard of West Orange\" was heartstopping). MAN you know when you find a new author and it permeates you? This hasn't happened in ages for me. I am so so excited for more of you, Steven Millhauser. ...more Stories about obsession and excess that usually involve taking some idea or concept to fantastic extremes. Building an actual tower to heaven, laughing contests that threaten people's health and sanity, maintaining an exact replica of a town that serves no purpose other than looking at, building miniatures so small that no one can see them, and building a giant dome to cover an entire country are some of the ideas that are explored here. My favorite was the first story which is basically a descri Stories about obsession and excess that usually involve taking some idea or concept to fantastic extremes. Building an actual tower to heaven, laughing contests that threaten people's health and sanity, maintaining an exact replica of a town that serves no purpose other than looking at, building miniatures so small that no one can see them, and building a giant dome to cover an entire country are some of the ideas that are explored here. My favorite was the first story which is basically a description of old Tom and Jerry cartoons that details the carnage they engage in, but also describes their weariness of the fight. Odd and interesting stuff, but there weren't really any characters that engaged me, and after a while, the repetetive themes got predictable. ...more I'm a fan since his 1982 novel, Edwin Mulhouse--I have a first edition-- and he's among the most interesting of contemporary writers. He doesn't usually bother with the kind of usual realism so popular among people who give out literary prizes--i.e. another b.o.r.i.n.g. hetero divorce. And his stories usually defy categorization. They are almost always intriguing, as they are here. But one of them has that quality of great stories that should last forever, the kind of story that lifts the hair o I'm a fan since his 1982 novel, Edwin Mulhouse--I have a first edition-- and he's among the most interesting of contemporary writers. He doesn't usually bother with the kind of usual realism so popular among people who give out literary prizes--i.e. another b.o.r.i.n.g. hetero divorce. And his stories usually defy categorization. They are almost always intriguing, as they are here. But one of them has that quality of great stories that should last forever, the kind of story that lifts the hair on the back of your neck--\"A Precursor to the Cinema.\" Read it. ...more Here, the master storyteller tests the limits of storytelling, the limits of telling, the limits of language... Lord Chandos' post scriptum... Read and laugh, at your own risk... more/less a bunch of stories that explore human obsessions, the best of that bunch being the ones where those obsessions are about transcending our own physical/mental limitations. the plots are sweeping and very compressed, very reportorial and sometimes very parable-like. there is often no character per se--society at large, or the character of a given community, is the main character. so there's a story about a society building a tower all the way up to heaven. there's another story about a t more/less a bunch of stories that explore human obsessions, the best of that bunch being the ones where those obsessions are about transcending our own physical/mental limitations. the plots are sweeping and very compressed, very reportorial and sometimes very parable-like. there is often no character per se--society at large, or the character of a given community, is the main character. so there's a story about a society building a tower all the way up to heaven. there's another story about a town that has an exact replica town on its north side. there's a story also about how fashion frees itself from the limitations of the body, and women just start wearing dresses as big as houses. (i've realized this \"gag\" if you will on women's fashion is distinctly male. i don't know any women who think of modern fashion as the disavowal of the body, at least not modern fashion. it's all about the semi-permeable membrane, man! i have been corrected on this several times! for more dude-friendly information about how fashion works, read tigersprung .) anyway these stories have their charm. he runs his premises through all implications and possibilities and difficulties, with pretty amazing details: off the top of my head, how \"the other town\" handles its re-creation of the regular town's plants and trees and so on, through a mix fake tree branches and real ones, and *everybody seems totally cool with this*, it is just batshit insane. you can sense the humor millhauser works with here: he's reporting utter absurdities really flatly. it's definitely the guy's \"thing.\" but anyway: this no character thing is kinda tough! i like characters. i am definitely a particular-towards-the-general kinda guy, in short stories especially. a real old-tymer. at times i felt like i was reading a wikipedia page summary of some small-town phenomenon. other times millhauser feels the need to moralize, even if it's like this \"fake\" or performative or character-based moralizing wrap-up type thing, where the fact that the character is moralizing is indicative of something. whatever it is, it almost ruins a few of these stories: \"elaine coleman\" ends with the suggestion that society \"kills\" people by forgetting them. it's just a little too much for me. same thing with \"history of a disturbance,\" which is way too on the head with the whole \"words fail us\" thing, even too with \"the room in the attic\", which is this man recounting his relationship as a boy with this young girl he only knew in the dark--how the mystery of never seeing her was what made the relationship so intriguing, and how not excited he was, scared even, of ruining his relationship with her by seeing her in the light. i get it, and i understand the need to sum things up with a fantastic conclusion but, i don't know: am i the only person in the world who thinks all george saunders stories or at least most of them would be better off without that last paragraph? i hate when it's like i'm sitting on some old dude's knee, listening to him whisper short stories into my ear, feeling his breath condense to spit in my ear, then looking at his face, which is smiling back at my face and telling me now it's bed time. i've seen this guy's book jacket photo. it's really just not my thing. the best stories here though are just...they're so good. \"wizard of west orange\" and \"in the reign of harad iv\" are fantastic, character-driven, etc. characters with singular obsessions, devoted to some task that's completely worthless as an end in itself, yet they do it anyway, it brings them that much pleasure. kind of like writing goodreads reviews. ...more Bizarre, profound, and gorgeously written, the thirteen stories in Steven Millhauser\u2019s collection will transport the reader to a world that is strikingly similar to our own, but where impossibly strange things are dangerously possible. A lonely, ignored woman literally vanishes into thin air after preparing a cup of tea one night. In the titular story, a group of teenagers experiment with laughter as a potentially deadly new drug whose high they cannot resist. A miniaturist becomes obsessed with Bizarre, profound, and gorgeously written, the thirteen stories in Steven Millhauser\u2019s collection will transport the reader to a world that is strikingly similar to our own, but where impossibly strange things are dangerously possible. A lonely, ignored woman literally vanishes into thin air after preparing a cup of tea one night. In the titular story, a group of teenagers experiment with laughter as a potentially deadly new drug whose high they cannot resist. A miniaturist becomes obsessed with creating invisible, pristine pieces of art. A tower rises higher and higher into the sky until it finally pierces Heaven itself. A historical society courts controversy by obsessively recording the details of the present (or, as they refer to it, the New Past). In each installment Millhauser skirts the line between fantastic and mundane, sane and insane, to create a collection rich in depth and profundity. \u201cA book is a dream machine. Its purpose is to take you out of the world.\u201d If this was indeed Millhauser\u2019s intent, he succeeded with aplomb. Each story is grounded in the real world\u2019s sensibilities, but Millhauser\u2019s wild imagination and prose style weave in just the right amount of oddness. I can see that for some, his quirks and outlandish twists could be seen as irksome, but I found myself enthralled with every story and each new take on his themes. \u201cFor we are no longer innocent, we who do not see and do not remember, we incurious ones, we conspirators in disappearances.\u201d If the stories in the collection\u2019s last segment, \u201cHeretical Histories,\u201d are a touch weaker than the rest, they still stand head and shoulders above the majority of other offerings in the fiction section this year. The stories in Dangerous Laughter are a towering achievement, and Millhauser pulls them off with panache \u2013 making this very likely the best new book of 2008. Also recommended: The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, The Garden of Last Days, and Purple America. ...more Steven Millhauser, you had me at old-timey, \"How do you do, madame?\" After a disappointing collection by what I thought was a reliable author, I picked up another set of short stories based purely on the appeal of its cover. According to the info. on the back, the image was culled from The Advertising Archives. Very Mad Men. Dangerous Laughter really took me by surprise. I know I probably shouldn't say this because the summer has barely begun and because I'll be damning myself with a barely ripe Steven Millhauser, you had me at old-timey, \"How do you do, madame?\" After a disappointing collection by what I thought was a reliable author, I picked up another set of short stories based purely on the appeal of its cover. According to the info. on the back, the image was culled from The Advertising Archives. Very Mad Men. Dangerous Laughter really took me by surprise. I know I probably shouldn't say this because the summer has barely begun and because I'll be damning myself with a barely ripe prophesy, but this is probably the most memorable book I'll read of 2009. Millhauser's narrative style hails from the Enchanter's School of Storytelling, of which Nabokov, Calvino, and Borges are graduates. His stories are ambitious, not content merely to juggle between the fantastic and the ordinary, but to spin your grandma's Civil War commemorative plates, set fireworks off in your eyeballs, and convince you that \"Light as a Feather, Stiff as a Board\" isn't just some stupid slumber party game, it actually works. His stories are deep thinking, wild-haired, crazy-eyed maniacs, and yet they have the best possible manners. You could teach a creative writing class with these stories because Millhauser has an unwavering grasp of the fundamentals. They are structured without sacrificing the elements of suspense or surprise. You get on board, not really caring where you're going but wanting to get the hell away from wherever you are. You feel the momentum build, collecting steam. You wonder how he's going to do it, how he's going to bring it all to a satisfying ending, one that isn't readily predictable but necessarily appropriate, one that for all intents and purposes has the common sense and good manners of a well brought up story, escorting you to the door before stealing your breath away. I was downright dazzled. Standouts: Dangerous Laughter (my personal fave), The Dome, The Wizard of West Orange ...more In this collection of short stories, Millhauser presents to the reader various scenes set in a world that is a version of the real world, only with slightly surreal twists. Each twist applied by Millhauser forces the reader to examine different themes and concepts from unique perspectives. For example, in the titular story, the youth in a small town organize underground parties where the attendees laugh loudly and for long periods of time instead of drinking or doing drugs. This element of secre In this collection of short stories, Millhauser presents to the reader various scenes set in a world that is a version of the real world, only with slightly surreal twists. Each twist applied by Millhauser forces the reader to examine different themes and concepts from unique perspectives. For example, in the titular story, the youth in a small town organize underground parties where the attendees laugh loudly and for long periods of time instead of drinking or doing drugs. This element of secrecy and illicitness makes the laughing feel dangerous and exciting to the children, and makes the reader think about the relationship between the enjoyment of an activity, and the context within which an activity occurs. In another story, people begin building giant domes around their houses, and as neighbor competes with neighbor in a ridiculous keeping-up-with-the-Joneses sentiment, eventually whole cities are surrounded in giant domes, and then the entire globe. In another story, the cartoon Tom and Jerry is described in a way that highlights the extreme violence that cat and mouse inflict upon one another and highlights the laughter and joy that we somehow find in their cruelty to each other. From a technical perspective, Millhauser does a great job in creating situations that force the reader to ponder issues. But for me, the biggest flaw in all of the individual stories (and in aggregate, then, the entire collection) is that there is a distance in all of these stories. None of the characters grip our emotions; there is a distinct emotional detachment in each story, almost as if each story were an observational essay than a piece of fiction. So while Millhauser succeeded in engaging my mind, he failed in engaging my heart. That for me made the entire book feel incomplete. ...more Thanks, February 2008, for publishing the funniest thing I've read all year. From Steven Millhauser's short story \"Cat 'N' Mouse\": \"The mouse is sitting in his chair with his feet on the hassock and his open book facedown on his lap. A mood of melancholy has invaded him, as if the brown tones of his room had seeped into his brain. He feels stale and out of sorts: he moves within the narrow compass of his mind, utterly devoid of fresh ideas. Is he perhaps too much alone? He thinks of the cat and w Thanks, February 2008, for publishing the funniest thing I've read all year. From Steven Millhauser's short story \"Cat 'N' Mouse\": \"The mouse is sitting in his chair with his feet on the hassock and his open book facedown on his lap. A mood of melancholy has invaded him, as if the brown tones of his room had seeped into his brain. He feels stale and out of sorts: he moves within the narrow compass of his mind, utterly devoid of fresh ideas. Is he perhaps too much alone? He thinks of the cat and wonders whether there is some dim and distant possibility of a connection, perhaps a companionship. Is it possible that they might become friends? Perhaps he could teach the cat to appreciate the things of the mind, and learn from the cat to enjoy life's simpler pleasures. Perhaps the cat, too, feels an occasional sting of loneliness. Haven't they much in common, after all? Both are bachelors, indoor sorts, who enjoy the comforts of a cozy domesticity; both are secretive ; both take pleasure in plots and schemes. The more the mouse pursues this line of thought, the more it seems to him that the cat is a large, soft mouse. He imagines the cat with mouse ears and gentle mouse paws, wearing a white bib, sitting across from him at the kitchen table, lifting to his mouth a fork at the end of which is a piece of cheese.\" ...more Millhauser, Steven. DANGEROUS LAUGHTER. (2008). ****. This is a collection of thirteen short stories by this Pulitzer Prize winning author. He has arranged them into three categories, along with an opening \u201ccartoon.\u201d The cartoon is a short story about a cat and a mouse \u2013 a la Tom and Jerry. The cat is always chasing the mouse, while the mouse successfully eludes him. The story then devolves into a closer examination by both characters as to what is the real meaning of their lifes. How should the Millhauser, Steven. DANGEROUS LAUGHTER. (2008). ****. This is a collection of thirteen short stories by this Pulitzer Prize winning author. He has arranged them into three categories, along with an opening \u201ccartoon.\u201d The cartoon is a short story about a cat and a mouse \u2013 a la Tom and Jerry. The cat is always chasing the mouse, while the mouse successfully eludes him. The story then devolves into a closer examination by both characters as to what is the real meaning of their lifes. How should they handle this symbiotic relationship? The simple cartoon situation turns into much more than originally meets the eye. The three divisions of short stories are: Vanishing Acts, Impossible Architectures, and Heretical Histories. Four short stories are grouped into each category \u2013 mostly related to the title of the category. The worst that can be said about any of these stories is that it is well-crafted and well written. The best that can be said of two or three of them is that it is inspired. This is, without going into more detail than is necessary, an excellent collection of Millhauser\u2019s stories, all of which have been previously published in various magazines. Recommended. ...more I'd like to know who is reading this book and enjoying it??? This was a book club selection, so I felt compelled to at least try to get through this depressing morass. I can appreciate the artistry of the stories and the intellect which produced these smart, but boring tales. However, talk about too much of a good thing. I mean, hit me over the head with a hammer, with nihilism and the will to self-degenerate, self-abdicate. Sheesh! As intellectual exercises, some of these tales are intriguing, I'd like to know who is reading this book and enjoying it??? This was a book club selection, so I felt compelled to at least try to get through this depressing morass. I can appreciate the artistry of the stories and the intellect which produced these smart, but boring tales. However, talk about too much of a good thing. I mean, hit me over the head with a hammer, with nihilism and the will to self-degenerate, self-abdicate. Sheesh! As intellectual exercises, some of these tales are intriguing, but if you're looking for characters you can care about -- or even want to understand -- you're going to need to look elsewhere. Which is a bit of a pity since some of the stories seemed promising. I'm semi-interested in what sort of person finds a disappearing or trying-to-laugh-yourself-to-death person interesting, but there simply wasn't enough info about these narrators to explain their obsessions. Instead, they just seemed silly. I'm curious about the author. What sort of person can write -- and presumably enjoy -- such bottomless, vacuous prose?? If this seems cruel and you really enjoyed this book, convince me. I'm listening... ...more I first encountered Millhauser in Harper's and The New Yorker . Encountering his work in a magazine is like unexpectedly finding a portal into an alternate universe. A man writes a letter to his wife in which he explains why he's elected to stop speaking because of the inadequacy of language. A miniaturist pursues his art past the threshold of the visible. Suicide becomes a popular fad in a suburban town. Reading an entire book of MIllhauser's eerie stories in some way dampens the pleasure of his I first encountered Millhauser in Harper's and The New Yorker . Encountering his work in a magazine is like unexpectedly finding a portal into an alternate universe. A man writes a letter to his wife in which he explains why he's elected to stop speaking because of the inadequacy of language. A miniaturist pursues his art past the threshold of the visible. Suicide becomes a popular fad in a suburban town. Reading an entire book of MIllhauser's eerie stories in some way dampens the pleasure of his weirdness. The tricks are different (at least somewhat) in each story, but you're more expectant, prepared to read about worlds where women's clothing designers liberate themselves from attention to the human form, or domes are constructed over entire houses, neighborhoods, and finally countries; where a tower is constructed that at last reaches heaven, but it takes longer than a human life to ascend it. Millhauser's best work ignores the conventions of contemporary fiction, causing us to look differently at our world and our perceptions of it. But it's best if consumed in small doses, like a delicate liqueur. ...more I thought I was trying a new author when I picked up this book. I was wrong: Millhauser is popular! This collection is full of stories that I had already read in McSweeney's or heard on NPR's Selected Shorts (two of them, no less!). Like most experimental short fiction I found this to be hit-and-miss. Some of the stories were funny, some were genius, and others just seemed unstatisfying and pointlessly weird. I imagine that different readers, however, would assign those same labels to different I thought I was trying a new author when I picked up this book. I was wrong: Millhauser is popular! This collection is full of stories that I had already read in McSweeney's or heard on NPR's Selected Shorts (two of them, no less!). Like most experimental short fiction I found this to be hit-and-miss. Some of the stories were funny, some were genius, and others just seemed unstatisfying and pointlessly weird. I imagine that different readers, however, would assign those same labels to different stories in the book. All in, this is a really good collection if you don't mind a departure from traditional form. Especially recommended for people who enjoy thought experiments (a la Calvino's Invisible Cities), or people who collect every-day items, or people who notice details a lot, or people who wonder what it would be like for their home to be covered by an enormous transparent dome. ...more The first story is amazing. The rest are quaint. I feel like I'm reading Robert Louis Stevenson or old 40s SF (think John Wyndham). Meanwhile there's a whiff of ambition to sound like DeLillo. People think if you're not into them you don't like the intellectualism or \"distance\" but when the narrator recites a 14-item list of what \"we of the Historical Society\" provide in their archives, it's just filler to set the pedantic, sly style of the narration. And the intellect gets bored reading filler The first story is amazing. The rest are quaint. I feel like I'm reading Robert Louis Stevenson or old 40s SF (think John Wyndham). Meanwhile there's a whiff of ambition to sound like DeLillo. People think if you're not into them you don't like the intellectualism or \"distance\" but when the narrator recites a 14-item list of what \"we of the Historical Society\" provide in their archives, it's just filler to set the pedantic, sly style of the narration. And the intellect gets bored reading filler just for the sake of style. I was relieved to read another review which distinguishes between reading one of these stories in a magazine, which is a treat, to reading a whole schlock-ful of them. But why can't they be more like the first story?? ...more If Borges were bloodless, these are the stories he would write. This was the first book I've read in recent memory where the author seemed like he was bored writing it. I made it about 70% through before I gave up. Most of the stories do not have a single line of dialogue, which makes for a surprising amount of tedium in a short story book. The same list that recommended this book recommended \"Tenth of December\" by Saunders, which I devoured. I'm not sure if I'm unfairly comparing it to that or If Borges were bloodless, these are the stories he would write. This was the first book I've read in recent memory where the author seemed like he was bored writing it. I made it about 70% through before I gave up. Most of the stories do not have a single line of dialogue, which makes for a surprising amount of tedium in a short story book. The same list that recommended this book recommended \"Tenth of December\" by Saunders, which I devoured. I'm not sure if I'm unfairly comparing it to that or if it's just plain monotonous, but I don't know that I'll be repairing to Millhauser any time soon. ...more Aside from the opening story, which I found a bit cliche, there are some really creative ideas in Millhauser's stories. Like other reviewers here I did sometimes feel like he belabored the point of his stories, but he usually did so in such an inventive engaging way that I didn't often mind. That being said, one thing that I did kind of miss from the stories was any real sense of emotion, there was always a level of detachment that nagged at me after several stories. The exception to this was the Aside from the opening story, which I found a bit cliche, there are some really creative ideas in Millhauser's stories. Like other reviewers here I did sometimes feel like he belabored the point of his stories, but he usually did so in such an inventive engaging way that I didn't often mind. That being said, one thing that I did kind of miss from the stories was any real sense of emotion, there was always a level of detachment that nagged at me after several stories. The exception to this was the story \"The Disappearance of Elaine Coleman\". ...more I may or may not have neglected homework to read this. While I thoroughly enjoyed the first Millhauser collection that I read ( Knifethrower ), this one is stronger. I'd be looking at the last page of a story with regret, only to find myself sharply pulled into the next one. Millhauser is smart and incredibly engaging- this particular bunch reminded me a little of Calvino. Very curious to see how he translates into the world of novel. Right now I am reading Dangerous Laughter by Steven Millhauser. It is a short book with 13 individual short stories. The stories are truly amazing and the author did an excellent job portraying themes in all the stories I have read so far. It is very different from anything I have read before making it even more enjoyable. I think without a doubt that everyone should read this book! Millhouser es capaz de crear locuras posibles, consecuencias que parecen naturales, de cualquiera de las obsesiones contempor\u00e1neas. A low-cal smoothie blend of Calvino, Borges, Barthelme and Bradbury without any of the juice or pulp. These stories are so much fun. I can't put this down.<---C>Steven Millhauser</---C>", "Title": "Dangerous Laughter"},
