{"Comments": "Why are they bringing heath back? He's friggin dead. Just let zoey and stark live their life happy without zoeys ho problem >_< I have had it with these books.<---F> Just \u2026 absolutely had it</---F>. I can't go any further. I got about a fourth of the way through this book and I just couldn't finish it. And I consider myself to be a patient person. I try to give even the worst books a fair chance. But for <+++>Destined</+++> , I just couldn't pull through. If you feel compelled to troll this review saying I didn't give this book a fair chance \u2026 well, consider that I did read the first whole eight books, and started hating them around book 3. Yet, I have had it with these books. Just \u2026 absolutely had it. I can't go any further. I got about a fourth of the way through this book and I just couldn't finish it. And I consider myself to be a patient person. I try to give even the worst books a fair chance. But for <+++>Destined</+++> , I just couldn't pull through. If you feel compelled to troll this review saying I didn't give this book a fair chance \u2026 well, consider that I did read the first whole eight books, and started hating them around book 3. Yet, I continued with the hope that maybe <---C>Zoey</---C> would become less annoying or that the writing would improve or that some semblance of a plot would form\u2013\u2013and after trying to make my way through the ninth book, and finding that the books only worsened rather than improving, I think that was giving the books a fair chance that they barely even deserved. And they failed. Also, THERE ARE GOING TO BE MANY SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW. And I'm too lazy to hide them because there are just going to be so many. But I figure that,<---M> if you're reading this review</---M>, you've already read the book or you don't intend to read the book. If you're thinking of reading these books or continuing the series, just \u2026 don't. That's all I have to say. Anyway. Even though I didn't even finish this book, this is going to be quite a harsh review. Particularly because these books have bothered me for a long time and I am filled with pent-up rage and disgust. I am just fed up. Now, maybe P.C. and Kristin Cast are nice people. I don't know, because I've never met them. And I doubt that anything I say would really matter to them since they've probably made thousands of dollars off the House of Night franchise. So trolls, if you think I'm being mean \u2026 well, I really don't care. Nothing I say is meant to personally offend the authors. I just think that their writing is, well, terrible. Where to start, where to start. I'd like to describe the plot of the ninth House of Night book, but I honestly am not sure what it is. By the time I'd stopped reading, 27% through (<---B>according to Goodreads</---B>), this is what had happened so far: Zoey has a dream where Nyx is all like, \"Hey look, your mom's dead.\" Then Zoey wakes up and she's like, \"Oh no! Well, whatever \u2026 I don't really care because I'm a heartless bitch. Tralala.\" She then makes her grief magically disappear using the Spirit element. And then she has sex with Stark. Nooo. Just \u2026 no. This is not cool. But anyway. Moving on. Then Zoey and her band of useless, stupid friends decide they want Raphaim to go to the House of Night. Raphaim goes to the House of Night. Everyone hates him. What a surprise. Neferet has a new evil vessel called Aurox which is this creepy dude who can transform into a bull. (LOLZ.) He is also Heath in disguise, because Nyx decided it was a good idea to put Heath into Neferet's vessel. Although, it was completely pointless because Heath forgot who he was. Also, I FREAKING HATE HEATH AND I WISH HE WOULD JUST GO THE HELL AWAY. HE'S DIED LIKE THREE TIMES ALREADY. GOD DAMN IT. Ah hem. Sorry about that little outburst. Where was I? Well \u2026 then Erik (who is suddenly a main character again) goes off to Mark his first fledgling. Turns out she's a blind girl. And at first I was like, \"Oh boy! A token blind character!\" But then Marking her instantly made her able to see again. How convenient. Not only that, but she could see people's rainbow auras or something. HOW ADORABLE. So, yeah. That's about where I stopped reading. But I did look up the rest of the plot on Wikipedia just to find out what happens. Apparently Shaunee and Raphaim become friends and that, for some reason, causes the first argument between the Twins ever. GASP. HOW DRAMATIC. And then at the end Dragon sacrifices himself to save Raphaim, even though Raphaim killed his wife and Dragon hated him all along. Huh. And then, Kalona decides to follow Nyx or something like that. Which probably means Zoey can have sex with him now. Other than that, I don't really remember much else about what happens, but it all sounded ridiculous and lame as always. So, that's the plot in a nutshell. Pretty boring for the most part, with an occasional bogus thing randomly happening just to keep people interested. Now, let me start on all the other, more specific things that make me hate these books. Zoey Zoey is, hands down, my least favorite main character of all time. I can put up with boring main characters and stupid main characters to a certain extent \u2026 but Zoey is just a despicable, emotionless person. She's a bratty, selfish, whiney little butt head and I hate her stupid guts. In this book, she was particularly infuriating. I mean, she finds out her mom freaking died, and she acts like she doesn't give a crap. The Casts excuse seems to be that, since she was told in a dream, she \"doesn't know for sure.\" Except, Nyx was in her dream and it all seemed very realistic\u2013\u2013and since it's a magical universe it made sense if it was some kind of message, etc. And Zoey seems fairly certain that it was real. But even if she wasn't 100% sure what it meant, that's no excuse to completely banish it from her mind. She doesn't go home to check if her mom is okay. She doesn't even call her mom or her grandma or anyone. She barely even thinks about it at all. She worries for about two minutes, and then she wakes up Stark so she can have sex with him. She then spends the next few chapters just talking with random people about pointless things, without acknowledging the whole problem of her mom probably being dead. It isn't until her grandma shows up and tells her face-to-face that she seems to finally get it. Furthermore, this girl is as dumb as a brick. She seems to have the brain of a 6-year-old (besides the whole sex-all-the-time aspect). I wonder if the Casts truly think that teenagers are this ignorant or whether Zoey is just \u2026 special. But seriously, the girl's like 17 or something. She can't figure out how to use Skype or how to sync an iPod to a computer \u2026 which I guess is somewhat excusable, since some people are technologically challenged. But that's only the beginning of it. When another character uses the phrase \"poker face\" in a sentence, her response is, \"Poker face? Sorry, I only know how to play Candyland.\" SERIOUSLY? You are telling me that a girl in her late teens has never, ever heard of the expression \"poker face\" before? Not only that, but THE ONLY GAME SHE KNOWS HOW TO PLAY IS CANDYLAND? That is just \u2026 pathetic. Also, she apparently didn't know what the word \"vapid\" meant, either. OH THE IRONY. IT'S KILLING ME. Well, in conclusion, Zoey is just a useless pile of poop. She is selfish, emotionless, and a complete moron. Moving on. Stark Another abusive fictional boyfriend who is passed off as being a great guy. Wonderful. Really, this guy is such a dickhead I want to reach through the book and punch him in the face. I used to be like, \"Stark \u2026 He's a'iiiight.\" But, no. He isn't. He's become an obnoxious asshole just like all of Zoey's other boyfriends. First of all, he is just incredibly lame. After he and Zoey spend the night having sex, his only comment on the matter is, \"Making love was great.\" Really? That's all you have to say? But get this\u2013\u2013 then , he gets all angry at Zoey for waking him up in the night because she found out her mother had died . What. The. Hell. And does Zoey dump him straightaway like any sensible girl would? Umm, no. After the two of them argue about this, the fight ends like this: Stark: \"But no matter what I love you, even if I\u2019m a jerk. Okay? Better?\u201d Zoey: \u201cOkay. Yeah. Better.\" WHAT?! It was just acknowledged, right then and there, that Stark is a jerk. He even admitted it himself. Yet, apparently it makes it all better if he says he loves her. NO. NO NO NO. It's like, what kind of message are the Casts trying to send here? That it's perfectly okay for your boyfriend to not care that your mother has just died ? And that if he says he loves you, that fixes everything? NO. THAT IS NOT HOW IT WORKS. If I was dating some asshat who got mad at me for waking him up because I found out my mother was dead , well first of all, I would dump his ass in the blink of an eye. Then I would probably beat the crap out of him. I mean, WHAT KIND OF PERSON GETS MAD AT YOU FOR SOMETHING LIKE THAT?! And beforehand, Zoey had said, \"There\u2019s a bond between Stark and me that goes deeper than dating and sex and all the stuff that comes and goes with normal relationships.\" Riiiiight. Well, you can tell me that, P.C. and Kristin Cast, but you sure don't show it. At all. GAHH I just wish Stark would just fall off a cliff and explode. The Writing I really don't know where to even start on this one. There are so many flaws in the Casts' writing that it makes me feel like my brain is imploding. I don't know which one of the Casts does most of the writing, here. So I'm not sure which one to blame. I've been told that <---A>P.C. Cast</---A> is the one doing most of the work, and then Kristin goes through it to make sure it all sounds \"teen enough\" or something like that. Well, in that case, they both fail. The writing is vague and amateurish, and then text speech and random pop culture references are forced into it to apparently make it more relatable to teenagers. Now, I'm just going to let some of the writing speak for itself. First of all, there are the descriptions that don't even make sense. \"I drew a deep, sobbing breath.\" Um, how can you sob when you're inhaling? Really, try it. You'll just end up choking. \"He stomped a cloven hoof through his foot, ripping off his face as the man fell forward.\" WHAT?! WHO? WHAT? HOW? This is a description of Aurox attacking some random guy. I assume, from the ambiguous pronouns, that it's saying that Aurox stomped his hoof through the guy's foot. But then, how did that lead to the guy's face getting ripped off ? There is no further description at all. How did he rip off this dude's face? With his horns? With his teeth? With his hooves? HOW IS THAT EVEN POSSIBLE? \"The bull nuzzled her. Where his muzzle touched Priestess the silk of her gown shriveled, exposing smooth, naked flesh underneath.\" Ummm what? Why does the bull's nose dissolve her clothing? \"I saw Aphrodite turn around and glance back at me with a question mark on her face.\" Well, I guess I understand what this is supposed to mean, but \u2026 it just sounds stupid. A question mark on her face? So like, did she turn around and suddenly look like this?: Ha \u2026. Just \u2026. I don't even know. \"She smiled silkily.\" Someone please explain to me how you smile silkily. \"It bent and, almost gracefully, twisted off his brother\u2019s head.\" Once again, WHAT? HOW DID THAT FREAKING HAPPEN? What did he do, grab the guy's head and yank it off? PLEASE. DETAILS. DETAILS ARE GOOD. Also, how do you twist off someone's head \"gracefully\"? That's what I would like to know\u2026 Then, there are the descriptions that are so lazy and vague that the reader just cannot picture them or imagine them whatsoever. Like these little gems: \"Jeesh, all I can say is that it was disgusting and horrifying and totally confusing.\" \"Somehow Neferet was there, too, looking super crazy and smiling in a very weird way.\" \"In the middle of the whole thing was a creature that was kinda human and kinda not.\" \"He had horns and hoofs, but his face was guy-like. His eyes were glowing.\" I can hardly believe that an adult wrote all this\u2013\u2013much less that it went unedited and got freaking published . Really, does anyone at all edit these books? It's full of such stupid descriptions that it's inexcusable. Then of course, there's the insertion of text speech into the writing, which also drives me totally nuts. I'm sure I've complained about this enough in my reviews for the previous books. But really\u2026 by the time Zoey had referred to Stevie Rae as her \"BFF\" for about the one billionth time, I was about ready to tear the book to shreds. (Except, I was reading an ebook so \u2026 that wouldn't really work out.) Also, the dialogue. It's so bad. All of it just feels very forced and unnatural. It's like, the Casts are trying to capture everyday, witty conversation. And they try so hard that the characters just end up sounding like robots. Not only that, but they need to stop telling the reader what a character is feeling every single time he/she speaks. Almost any time anyone says anything, it's followed by, \"[Character] sounded [emotion].\" ARGH. The Pop Culture References As far as I read, there weren't too many of these in this book. But in the previous books, it's been a big issue. The books have repeatedly referenced popular TV shows, movies, etc. and it just feels very forced\u2013\u2013like the Casts are trying to prove that they're \"cool kids\" or like they're trying to advertise something. Like in this book, Zoey and Lenobia have talk for a whole page about True Blood . Then Lenobia says something about how she should read the books, to which Zoey replies, \"Actually, they're the Sookie Stackhouse books by a cool human author named Charlaine Harris.\" Ummmm. Either that's some kind of placement advertising, or the dialogue is just so abominable that it just sounds like cheesy advertising. UPDATE: Okay. I've been informed that apparently, the Casts put these pop culture references in their books because they hope to be referenced back\u2013\u2013like it's some kind of freaking popularity contest. Geez. And I thought I couldn't lose more respect for these books... See message 49 in the comments for details. (And thanks Shannon for bringing this to my attention.) But here's a snippet of an interview with P.C. and Kristin, to show you what I mean: \"Why did you choose Glee and True Blood to reference? KC: She\u2019s obsessed with Glee. I don\u2019t watch Glee, not that I have anything against it. Whenever I miss the first few episodes, I won\u2019t watch the series. But we both love True Blood. PCC: We\u2019re True Bloodaholics. Sunday nights, we meet, have dinner, and watch True Blood. But I can tell you when Glee had Twilight references on the show, I was shouting, SHOUTING, at the TV, saying \u201cWhere\u2019s House of Night? Did Twilight mention you in their books? Noooo! P.C. Cast did though. Where is my reference?\u201d And Kristin Chenoweth is from Broken Arrow [Oklahoma]. She went to South Intermediate High School. My dad had her in class, okay. We have ties to Glee. Why aren\u2019t we mentioned?! When she came through town on her book tour, my dad, who coached and taught at my high school for a thousand years, called me afterward. I was on tour myself, and he said, \u201cWell, I just got kissed by a Tony Award-winning actress. Can you say that?\u201d I\u2019m like, \u201cNo, dad. I cannot say that.\u201d Come on, Glee! What about House of Night? We mention you more than once. MORE THAN ONCE. KC: Phyllis. PCC: Oh, I\u2019m sorry. I beat the horse? KC: You\u2019re ranting, Phyllis. You\u2019re ranting. [Both laugh]\" I ... I can't even ... She seriously thinks that Glee owes her or something? Because she thinks she has \"connections\"? Oh, please. Kristin Chenowith isn't even a major character on the show, not to mention she doesn't write the script. What the hell do you expect her to do? And of course, this just isn't the way the world of literature works. You can't sneak little references into your book and then say that the show you referenced \"owes\" you a mention back. Oy vey. It's just a desperate plea for attention. One you're probably never going to get, P.C. Especially if you act so freaking immature about it. ARRRRGH. So. Moving on. The racism I have no problem with there being a diverse cast of characters in these books. In fact, it's nice to see a story that isn't completely white-washed. But I find the way the Casts portray black people rather offensive. First of all, the one important black character is named Kramisha. Uhhh. She always talks with this huffy attitude. Plus, she seems incapable of uttering a single grammatically correct sentence. Apparently, she can't EVER pronounce a word that ends in \"ing\" without it turning into \"in.\" Even something like \"boring\" always becomes \"borin.\" And then there was this piece of dialogue, spoken by some random guy in an alleyway when Aurox was about to attack him: \u201cIs they horns? Ah, hell no! I\u2019m outta here.\u201d O_o \u2026\u2026.. Just \u2026 no. WELL, I think that about covers it. I'm pretty sure I've said everything I need to say. From the disgusting main character, to the careless writing, to the placement advertising, to the racism \u2026 these books are just plain terrible. And I am done with them. Forever. Never again shall I pick up one of these books an torture myself with it. YAAAAAY. [image error] ...more I want to shoot Heath in the face, I <3 STARK! For the record, I hate this series like I've hated no other. But I just want to know what happens next... :/ ...And after finishing it, I'm like: \"Great. Not another cliffhanger.\" If only the authors had put more thought into it from the start - the books have become so overrun with narratives that I'm wondering what is the point of the authors narrating Zoey in first person now? Seems to me this is a massive case of \"we're making this up as we go along...\" If this was an anime, then I suppose it c For the record, I hate this series like I've hated no other. But I just want to know what happens next... :/ ...And after finishing it, I'm like: \"Great. Not another cliffhanger.\" If only the authors had put more thought into it from the start - the books have become so overrun with narratives that I'm wondering what is the point of the authors narrating Zoey in first person now? Seems to me this is a massive case of \"we're making this up as we go along...\" If this was an anime, then I suppose it could work in that contrived way that anime plots and Mary-Sues gel together. But no. This is not an anime, a TV show or even godforbid...a movie. It's a book, a terribly written one at that, and yet, I know I'll be reading the next one whilst cursing the writers for making an addictive plot and the most awful main characters in recent book history. *sigh* ...more DIE HEATH DIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE!!! ahem - okay Kissa, okay. You're getting closer to the end of the series. Just this one and then 3 more to go. ... and Heath is coming back! He's dead! Heath! The guy who I've wanted to hit since book 1! Don't bring him back! And I thought the books were finally starting to move forward. You're going backwards! Define: House of Night: see, Draco Malfoy's quotes: \"if you were any slower, you'd be going backwards\". Oh my god is she really gonna bring heath into the mix. gggrrrrr he's dead move on. ( GO TEAM STARK!!) Love thease books Keep it up girls can't wait till Nov REVIEW DOWN BELOW!!! Wow. Okay. Cool cover. I mean, there are abs in it. What could possibly go wrong with a hottie like that on the cover? Ugh. Despite my love for the cover I can already predict that this book is going to be...yet another usless novel. 1) Heath is coming back. Oh Heath, you can be sweet sometimes, but my real feelings for you lie in my hands that want to slap you senseles. YOU WILL GET NO REMORSE HEATH LUCK! 2) Like I said up there, this is not going to be good. The lack of.. REVIEW DOWN BELOW!!! Wow. Okay. Cool cover. I mean, there are abs in it. What could possibly go wrong with a hottie like that on the cover? Ugh. Despite my love for the cover I can already predict that this book is going to be...yet another usless novel. 1) Heath is coming back. Oh Heath, you can be sweet sometimes, but my real feelings for you lie in my hands that want to slap you senseles. YOU WILL GET NO REMORSE HEATH LUCK! 2) Like I said up there, this is not going to be good. The lack of...ANYTHING in Awakened lessens my hopes for this book. The author tried to cram little miniscule bits of info into a book that really, should've never happened. Or at least combined with Burned, to make one huge mistake. 3) There are going to be three more books after this. Yes, just when I thought I couldn't get enough of Zoey's idiotic thoughts, her stupid actions, and her non-existant IQ, I get another three books to burn. Whoop. De. Doo. But don't be fooled: I will try and enjoy this book, for whatever its worth. I will just: a) Not buy it at a bookstore for 19.99 when I can get it in the trash bin for free (just joking) b) Try to keep my slapping hands away from Heath, and c) ... I actually don`t have anything for c. *SLAP* *** Countdown the Destined! Only 9 more days! (Oh joy. This is why I'm going to guy the Iron Knight before I even touch this book. It would be a disgrace NOT to.) Let me predict what is going to happen in this book: 1) Another useless character dies. If only it were this exciting. 2) Zoey develops some incredible new power that enables her to bring back the dead. (Like it hadn't already happened five books ago.) 3) All of the characters hook up with someone, even if it really wasn't nessecary. 4) This book will be a total waste of my time, yet again. And if there is the slight chance that this book won't make me want to do this.... Or this... Then I might consider buying the next one. *** I got the book. And I've just made probably the stupidest, or most obvious realization: It isn't Stark on the cover. It's Heath. *** Three stars? Three stars?!?!?!? WHAT IS THIS?????????? There will be a lot to say about this. So hold on tight. But the first thing I have to say is that all (at least, almost all) of my predictions came true. I will enlighten you all on that later. But for now, my overview. Again let me remind you that if I didn't have such strong mixed feelings for this series, I wouldn't be reading this book at all. I went into reading this insult to literature with an open mind; please remember that. Anyway, onto the ranting. Destined was a roller coaster ride of good and bad. I was NOT thrilled in having Heath back...even though somehow, magically, he's a sexy beast. Abs? Yes please. Oh, eh hem, sorry about that. From the first chapter I already had the urge to smack this book against the wall, and then continue to beat my head against it just to get the last wisps of Zoey's demented lingo out of my mind. I can't stand how she thinks. No teenager in their right mind would ever talk like that. I can't even explain it, its that bad. So while we're still on the topic of Zoey, I'd like to point out that she's still the same stuck-up stupid biotch she was in the last...what was it...eight books? So don't get your hopes up for a change. The only way I got through this boook is because of the split POV's, because I wasn't stuck in Zoey's small mind and didn't have to imagine words like smushy and ridiculous sentances like I blinked a bunch of times streaming from a should-be-mature teenage mind. And that stupid \"Ah Hell that's like a quirky little catchphrase to you? Not cool. Throughout most of this book, I actually had to put it down for a while to be able to think properly. Honestly, this book was a mess. A. Mess. Obviously this book wasn't properly edited. I mean, they barely come out a couple months behind each other. What do they do? Draft a book in a month and then get someone to fill it with incestant angsty teenage babble? There were thousands of gramatical errors, spelling mistakes, and sentances that just didn't make sense . The only reason it got three stars is because - again - the split POV's made up for it. That's all. And when I say that's all, I mean that's all . And also while I was reading this, I daydreamed. I wondered what it would be like to have someone who almost tried to kill you in the past be all friendly and cuddly with you in the same room. If it was me, I would just do this: Whoops. I also had weird fantasies when Kalona showed up and Shaunee was in the tunnels with him, about them hooking up. No offense, but that would've been totally awesome. I might have even spared half a star if that happened :P. Also, I'm glad that some of the other characters have love interests, and not just Zoey, who hogs all of the smexy boys for herself. I thought Lebonia and whats-his-face were so cute together, and I also like Stevie Ray and Rephiam together, although it would be fantastic if one of them died, leaving the other tottally and impearably heartbroken and crushed. But you know, thats just me. *Sigh* And lets not forget how many times the ending of this book has been used before. It goes kind of like this: We have to make a circle! Don't break the circle! DON'T BREAK THE EFFING CIRCLE! B-but someone is hurt ... I DON'T CARE DON'T BREAK THE GOSHDAMNED CIRCLE! ... Let's count, shall we? 1) In the first book. Heath is getting attacked by pervert ghosts. DON'T BREAK THE CIRCLE! 2) In the third book. Stevie Ray is biting Aphrodite and could quite possibly kill her. DON'T BREAK THE CIRCLE! 3) In the fourth book. Stevie Ray just got SHOT WITH AN ARROW and is bleeding all over the place. DON'T BREAK THE CIRCLE! 4) In the fifth book. Stark just got SHOT WITH AN ARROW and is bleeding all over the place. DON\"T BREAK THE CIRCLE! 5) In the eight book. Rephiam just got mauled by a bull...DON'T BREAK THE CIRCLE! ................................. Do you SEE the pattern here? I can already guess what the next book will be like. No seriously, if I get another ending like this I will...do something. I don't know what yet, but I will do something about it. And while we're on the topic of lists, here's another one. HOW MANY BOYS ZOEY HAS INTERACTED/\"CAUGHT THE ATTENTION OF\" 1) Heath 2) Erik 3) Loren 4) Stark 5) Kalona I've anazlyzed this list, and have come to the conclusion that Zoey is not entirely human. She is, due to the excessive ammount of male attention she is getting, (even though she has the IQ of a rock) A ROBOT! Yes, I am almost positive now... *** Anyways, like I said before, almost ALL of my predictions came true. I am actually shocked; I didn't know I was that psychic...and instead of ruining the book more than I already have for those who haven't read it yet, I'll just do this: 1) Another usless character dies: Check 2) Zoey develops some incredible new power that enables her to bring back the dead. (Like it hadn't already happened five books ago.): Check (Well, memories of the dead) 3) All of the characters hook up with someone, even if it wasn't really nessecary: Half-Check. (I said ALMOST, not all of my predictions came true) 4) This book will be a total waste of my time, yet again: Check x10 Ahh, at least now I have a break until the next book... HIDDEN! ...more After people seemed to appreciate my Silence review (ahem) I felt like maybe writing a ranty summary-ish not!review for Destined might be in order. (Especially because of the entire \"Those books suck, but I still want to know what happens\" thing most of the not-fans have going on.) What's happened till now - Zoey became first fledgling High Priestess, very buddy buddy with Nyx (Goddess of all vampires) - Stevie Ray, BBF of Zoey, is read vamp's High Priestess. (Red vamps haven't survived their trans After people seemed to appreciate my Silence review (ahem) I felt like maybe writing a ranty summary-ish not!review for Destined might be in order. (Especially because of the entire \"Those books suck, but I still want to know what happens\" thing most of the not-fans have going on.) What's happened till now - Zoey became first fledgling High Priestess, very buddy buddy with Nyx (Goddess of all vampires) - Stevie Ray, BBF of Zoey, is read vamp's High Priestess. (Red vamps haven't survived their transformtion, but came back. With red instead of blue markings. Can't walk in sun, are typical vampires, need to decide whether to be good or bad.) - Zoey's relationships so far: Heath, human guy. Erik, now Tracker of the HoN. Loren, partner in crime of Neferet (evil bitch). Kalona, fallen Warrior of Nyx, has been linked to Neferet, killed Heath. Stark, died, came back as a red vamp, is now Zoey's Guardian and consort. - Zoey's mom's been killed by Neferet as a sacrifice, to create a weapon. - Nyx asked Heath if he wanted to be with Zoey again. He wanted to, so now his soul lives in the weapon mentioned above. - Neferet aka evil bitch is sided with the White Bull, enemy of Nyx, and Evil in general. First ~50 percent 1. Stark has nightmares 2. Zoey dreams of her mother's death. 3. Both wake up, have sex. - Kind of only thing they do, anyway. 4. Return to House of Night, problems with Neferet. 5. Now live outside of the HoN, Stevie Ray is now officially the High Priestess of the good red fledglings. 6. Raphaem, son of Kalona and ex-Raven Mocker turned sort-of-human and boyfriend of Stevie Ray joins them, causes chaos. 7. Neferet's job is to cause chaos, her weapon also lives from it, as does the White Bull. 8. Because of that she offers humans jobs, eg some cowboy. Horse-lady isn't happy about that. They later have some thing going on. Horse-lady is on Zoey's side. 9. Dragon isn't. Still mourning his mate's death. Very unhappy about Raphaem (who killed Anastacia - the mate) 10. Erik tracks and Marks girl. She is blind, instantly turns to a red fledling (cause broken already) can see again and has the ability to see the true colors of people. 11. Authors make True Blood references that don't work out. Destined is set not long after the first novel, which has been published years ago. So, actually Season 1 or 2 would be airing. Dumb mistake. (Later happens again, this time with a Game of Thrones reference) 12. The other, evil, red vamps attend classes now, too. Neferet asked them. Obviously to create chaos. Last ~50 Percent 1. New poem: Dragon tears, Dark/Light, Ice/Fire, paradox, blah. Zoey doesn't know what a paradox is. Find that very insulting. Do Casts thing young adults are that dumb? 2. Kalona and Raphaem talk. Kalona tried to make Raphaem spy before, but he refused. Everyone's unhappy about Raphaem not shunning his father, except Twin 1, who has Daddy Issues, too. 3. Because of that Twin 1 and 2 have fall-out, no BFFs or Twins anymore. Twin 2 is bitch. 4. Death-lady from book before arrives at HoN. She's a High Priestess too. Kind of on Zoey's side, wants to know truth about Neferet, makes special students attend her class instead of Neferet's. 5. There they talk about death of parents, Imprinting etc. 6. Death-Lady offers/wants to make a ritual, to see how Zoey's mom died. 7. Aurox, Neferet's weapon starts thinking, feels bond to Zoey. Saves her, too, one time, when Neferet tries to harm her. 8. Kalona talked to Twin 1, she gave him her iPhone, so he could call Raphaem. 9. Aphrodite had a vision of Raphaem's death. \"Does this mean I wasn't meant to find out and I shouldn#t do anything at all?\" Aphrodite shrugged. \"Z, I know you'll find this hard to believe because you've been Miss Front and Center ina bunch of my visions, but in this one you barely made an appearance. I just don't think this is about you at all.\" \"But it's at my Grandma's farm.\" \"Yeah, but it's Raphaem getting carved up this time and not you,\" she said. 10. Aurox/weapon/Heath is supposed to do everything so Zoey etc. start/finish the ritual. 11. He doesn't want to anyway. 12. Dragon shall not go to the ritual, because Aphrodite saw that he was there when Raphaem died. 13. Both go, Dragon cause he wants to, Aurox cause Neferet forces him with magic. 14. Aurox attacks Raphaem. 15. Zoey and Co see how her mother died. 16. Stevie Ray calls Kalona. 17. Dragon protects Raphaem and dies, reunited with his mate. 18. Kalona arrives, too late though. 19. Kalona's very sad. Cries, asks Nyx to keep his son alive. 20. Tear drops on Raphaem's forehead, Raphaem heals. 21. Everyone very happy! 22. Kalona wants to be Sword Master of HoN under death-lady/High Priestess 23. Everyone OMFG! 24. Nyx very happy. The end. (Except that this series'll most likely never end.) ...more The House of Night series is the definition of a guilty pleasure -- something you shouldn't like but do anyway. Let's face it -- the series has been going on for WAAAAAAAY too long. It could've -- and should've -- stopped at four. But it didn't. And some of us, like me, are still here, hanging on and enjoying the ride. For instance, it's obvious, and I mean really obvious , when the authors are inserting other people's works into their stories. For example (on page 63 of Destined): \"Actually, th The House of Night series is the definition of a guilty pleasure -- something you shouldn't like but do anyway. Let's face it -- the series has been going on for WAAAAAAAY too long. It could've -- and should've -- stopped at four. But it didn't. And some of us, like me, are still here, hanging on and enjoying the ride. For instance, it's obvious, and I mean really obvious , when the authors are inserting other people's works into their stories. For example (on page 63 of Destined): \"Actually, they're the Sookie Stackhouse books by a cool human author named Charlaine Harris.\" I couldn't have caught it better had it been strapped to a bus and had it ran me over. Also, the books are edited very poorly: page 14 rolls around, and already Damien's name is spelled wrong. (Damian. Pfft.) On page 91, it says Damien is a forth former. I'm pretty sure the editor is a monkey. One thing I notice about Destined is that, once again, the maturity level has been bumped down a notch. When TEMPTED rolled around and the Twins and Damien backed away from the forefront, Zoey, Stark, Kalona and Neferet became the main peeps and the immaturity came to an all-time low. Now, though, those aforementioned backburner characters came back into play and it's all silly and fun. My head is still reeling after that amazing climax. After the addictive disaster that was Awakened, this book proved to be another solid entry in the House of Night series. In this book, Damien and the Twins have returned to the forefront with Zoey after their much-suffered break. Due to this, the book reminds me of the earlier entries in the series, like Betrayed. The book mostly reminds me of Tempted, though, because the beginning parts of the book were all setup to the explosive climax like they were in that book. However, like they were in Tempted and Awakened, the events and the climax didn't seem contrived or rushed; in fact, they seemed exactly the opposite. Neferet is even more bad-bitch than she was in the last book. She's using her freaky Darkness powers to inflict evil on the House of Night. OOoooOOOH, scary. I also like how this one is longer than AWAKENED was . . . PC was slacking when she wrote AWAKENED. Not this time around, babeh! WooT! Early 2011 This whole page is lies. It's not called RELEASED . . . P.C. confirmed that. Second, this isn't published by ATOM. And third, may fifth isn't even a valid release day. Sorry, people. Mid-2011 -- Cover Reveal OHMAGAWSH. It's gorgeous. TOTALLY not what I was expecting. I love the shadow of the bull and the lack of shirtlessness. (I mean, yeah, there are a few abdominals peaking out, but it's not nearly as graphic as AWAKENED. My only complaint is the recent designers' love of yellow and purple. Are they the only colors usable? Okay, I lied. I also don't like the change in tattoo styles. ...more Addictions suck. Especially when, as you're reading through it, your thought process is something like \" Oh dear lord why am I reading this why are they talking like ten year olds why is absolutely nothing happening in the plot and even worse why am I enjoying it ?\" I seem to think this way when reading every installment in this series, and Destined is no exception. Perhaps the most frustrating thing about this series is the dichotomy between the plot and the characters. The Casts (well, really, P. Addictions suck. Especially when, as you're reading through it, your thought process is something like \" Oh dear lord why am I reading this why are they talking like ten year olds why is absolutely nothing happening in the plot and even worse why am I enjoying it ?\" I seem to think this way when reading every installment in this series, and Destined is no exception. Perhaps the most frustrating thing about this series is the dichotomy between the plot and the characters. The Casts (well, really, P.C.; does Kristin actually do any of the writing?) have developed a plot that has matured as the series went on; the actions of the antagonists became much darker, and the conflicts became much more grand in scale. However, while the subject matter has matured, the characters have not. This immaturity was okay at the beginning of the series when Zoey and the gang were mostly dealing with relatable teenage issues with a few vampire problems thrown into the mix. This far into the series, however, all traces of normality are gone, and these characters are dealing with death and destruction at every turn. It seems only logical that they would inevitably grow up in the process, but they're still spewing out dialogue that sounds completely idiotic, and their interactions with each other are far too contrived. The \"heart-to-heart\" moments between Zoey and Stevie Rae were actually painful to read at times. It's almost as if these authors were never actually teenagers because the way these two speak to each other is not natural or relatable at all. Similar problems arise in this installment that have occurred throughout almost every single House of Night novel in the past. Stereotypes are still at large and don't seem to be going away anytime soon. Damien (setting aside the fact that his character has been reduced to a crying mess) is every single gay stereotype wrapped up into one person, and I still don't understand why the Casts feel the need to riddle Kramisha's dialogue with blatant grammatical errors just because she happens to be black. The pop culture references are getting out of control, too. Dropping the names of popular books and television shows and then awkwardly inserting a contrived conversation about it does not help the audience relate to what's going on; it just makes everything extremely awkward. I was cringing throughout the references to the Sookie Stackhouse series, Game of Thrones , and the others since they were made completely out of context, and they had no relevancy to anything at all. The plot's pacing was a little strange as well. I just finished it thirty minutes ago, and I cannot remember what happened in the first two hundred pages. These novels tend to fall into a pattern where the characters talk about what they're going to do for the first three quarters of the book before actually doing it, and this installment is no exception. The climax, however, was possibly one of the most memorable of the entire series. Even though, in my opinion, nothing truly happened in this book to move the overall plot forward, it was still nice to have some kind of gratification from the fairly well-done ending. If you've made it this far into the series, you're obviously going to have to read this one and the ones after it. I've given up hope that I will ever stop reading these books because I'm so far in, and as much as I hate to say it, I actually do find myself enjoying these books for the very trashy things they are. Sigh. ...more whyyyyyyy? why??? I know that Heath might look sweet and everything but COME ON Zoey already has Stark and they are bound together for life plus they are in love ... ok now its good to know that in this book not always what is dead stays dead but please Heath was already an issue when he was alive, then he was a problem when he died, clearly nobody wants him back, lmao thats not fair for Stark... Since the first book Zoey has been having boys issues (with her having more than one boyfriend) firs whyyyyyyy? why??? I know that Heath might look sweet and everything but COME ON Zoey already has Stark and they are bound together for life plus they are in love ... ok now its good to know that in this book not always what is dead stays dead but please Heath was already an issue when he was alive, then he was a problem when he died, clearly nobody wants him back, lmao thats not fair for Stark... Since the first book Zoey has been having boys issues (with her having more than one boyfriend) first Heath-Erick-Blake, then Erick-Heath-Stark, then Heath-Stark, and finally when she is loyal to ONE boy, Heath has to come back to mess everything up, PLEASE NOOOOO ...more I'm at a loss for words. Ok, I'll try to pull myself together enough to make a descent review for this well deserving book. Here it goes. I LOVE THIS SERIES! I can't express why, but I feel like if these books are ever insulted, I feel personally offended and like blow up like a bomb lol ;) This series is a great way to escape the all to troubling world and if this books release date dosen't hurry up and get here, there's gonna be trouble ;) can't tell you how much I love it, really. Thanks for I'm at a loss for words. Ok, I'll try to pull myself together enough to make a descent review for this well deserving book. Here it goes. I LOVE THIS SERIES! I can't express why, but I feel like if these books are ever insulted, I feel personally offended and like blow up like a bomb lol ;) This series is a great way to escape the all to troubling world and if this books release date dosen't hurry up and get here, there's gonna be trouble ;) can't tell you how much I love it, really. Thanks for writing it Kristin and Cast. I don't know what I'd do without these books. ...more I haven't read this book yet but I can't wait for it to come out! I actually cryed for like 10 minutes because Heath died (I don't usually cry when characters die) and I'm actually glad that Heath may get a second chance and maybe be with Zoey again! The thing I dislike most about this book is that it should've been combined with the previous book -over seventy percent of this was not only unimportant but simply did not even need to be there at all. The parts with Lenobia, completely pointless -I gained NOTHING from reading through them. The whole thing with the Twins is equally pointless unless it's played up in the next book, which, I highly doubt it will be. Overall, this was a blatant excuse to push out as many books in a series as they The thing I dislike most about this book is that it should've been combined with the previous book -over seventy percent of this was not only unimportant but simply did not even need to be there at all. The parts with Lenobia, completely pointless -I gained NOTHING from reading through them. The whole thing with the Twins is equally pointless unless it's played up in the next book, which, I highly doubt it will be. Overall, this was a blatant excuse to push out as many books in a series as they can. But, sadly, it's still working 'cause people are STILL reading it -whether it's because they like it or, like me, it's just out of spite, they're reading so apparently the Cast family knows something I don't know. T.T ...more Problems I had with this book: 1) Too many points of view. 2) Way too much drama, but I was indifferent to it all. 3) They're talking about \"love,\" but I don't see the spark between any of the romances. The characters in this book are no longer the ones I liked in the earlier books. And of all the guys, I liked Stark the best, but even now, he's some insignificant consort. I really should have stopped reading this series after Book 5. I think you guys are crazy for hating Heath he is so adorable. Plus he clearly loves his Zo. I mean Stark is alright, but Heath never fails to make me smile :D More of my reviews can be found at Flipping Through the Pages ! This is going to be a pretty crappy review.. I would like to say, despite this review, the reason I give these books 3 stars is because they are extremely addictive! I love the drama, I love the story and I love how it's like watching Jersey Shore or something (haven't actually watched more than an episode), you know it's bad but you just can't get away because it is mind-blowingly entertaining. Like Jerry Springer, or something... Her More of my reviews can be found at Flipping Through the Pages ! This is going to be a pretty crappy review.. I would like to say, despite this review, the reason I give these books 3 stars is because they are extremely addictive! I love the drama, I love the story and I love how it's like watching Jersey Shore or something (haven't actually watched more than an episode), you know it's bad but you just can't get away because it is mind-blowingly entertaining. Like Jerry Springer, or something... Here goes! 1. The Writing I have a serious issue with the writing in the HoN (hence the 3 stars), I LOVE the drama, pace and action throughout the series, but the writing has always irked me... I was browsing the interwebs and came across this in the ADVICE section on PC Cast's blog , \"2. Speaking of work \u2013 please remember that whatever you write represents you. No one is going to correct your errors in grammar, punctuation, and spelling. That\u2019s not an editor\u2019s job. Your editor is there to guide you into honing an already well written manuscript into the best work it can possibly be, and not to be a remedial writing coach. You need to work on the mechanics of writing and be as perfect as possible BEFORE you submit work to an editor or agent. Spelling counts! Even in emails. Get serious about that or no one will take your writing seriously. Okay.... \"Get serious about that (spelling/editing) or no one will take your writing seriously.\" REALLY? You're going to give this advice to readers when you write sentences such as \"Aphrodite's blond brows went up to her hairline.\" - Somebody care to explain to me how strange this would look if it were possible? Also, in previous books (can't remember which ones), character's names are consistently misspelled, for example.. 'Beezlebub', 'Beelzebub' and 'Beezelbub'. You, Miss Cast, can not tell people to get serious about editing when you clearly aren't. Also, Zoey once again seems like a dumbarse (which is half the reason I'm so addicted to these books-hit me now), she doesn't even know how to sync an iPhone from the computer... Really? THE C WORD (view spoiler) [cunt (hide spoiler) ] , oh dear god help us! Okay, this is a YA novel, I understand the word 'fuck' or 'shit' or even 'dickhead' but that? Okay, maybe it's because I personally don't like saying the word myself, but I think it's a bit inappropriate to put this in a fucking YA novel? Aphrodite said it and I love Aphrodite but I can't comprehend as to how they got away with putting this in a fucking YA novel? WTF! Especially considering that Zoey thinks that 'hell' is a curse word and actually says something along the lines of \"I can't believe Aphrodite is mocking me when I just cursed\" - That is paraphrased from memory, but still, 'hell' is not a curse word. 2. The Plot So, I love the plot and all the drama that happens. What can I say? It's a guilty pleasure! I must say, it does need to END soon and by the looks of the end of this book, it may just do that. I am afraid that everything good that happened in the end of this book will be completely twisted and fucked up again in the next book, so I'm not getting my hopes up! (view spoiler) [I thought Heath had his own vessel, but, I am so glad we FINALLY saw Heath in this book.. I love Heath! I was wondering, \"WHERE IS THIS FREAKING HEATH VESSEL?\" the entire time and then bam, it's the same as Neferet's? I was hoping for some epic battle between the vessels or something... I don't know! haha (hide spoiler) ] Anyway, why must Zoey and Stark have sex every chance they get? It's great they have sex and the Casts aren't all \"omg sex is only for making babies\", but seriously... Also, at the end (view spoiler) [when Zoey and her Grandma find out what happened to Zoey's mum (hide spoiler) ] , after all the hoo-ha that happens and the DRAMA (OH! The drama!!) Zoey completely ignores her Grandma for ages, then goes up to her, kisses her on the cheek and then leaves? Congratulations Zoey! You get the award for the Best Granddaughter EVER!* 3. POP CULTURE REFERENCES This series is notorious for its pop culture references.. What is it this time you ask? TRUE BLOOD. Zoey goes on for about a page about how awesome True Blood is, about how Sam is a shapeshifter and how cool Charlaine Harris is (she is cool if you want to read trashy and fun, much like reading the HoN series, but for adults), I am not rereading the Sookie Stackhouse novels for review purposes because quite honestly I can't be bothered, they are good, but not that good... So, all in all - another great installment for the HoN in regards to it's pace and oh-so-addictive drama but the writing is as good as always (not very). *Please note the sarcasm ...more I have never really hated a series this much before. This series could have ended like 5 books ago and it's still going. I don't even know when it's going to end and I don't want to find out. The only reason I got so far in this series is because of Stevie Rae and Rephaim. They were the only parts that were interesting and didn't want me to rip the book in half. After reading another extremely badly written book, I have decided to give up. Zoey really got on my nerve and I hate how she treated E I have never really hated a series this much before. This series could have ended like 5 books ago and it's still going. I don't even know when it's going to end and I don't want to find out. The only reason I got so far in this series is because of Stevie Rae and Rephaim. They were the only parts that were interesting and didn't want me to rip the book in half. After reading another extremely badly written book, I have decided to give up. Zoey really got on my nerve and I hate how she treated Eric in the past books when she was the one to cheat on him with that teacher. I have no idea how books like these could be bestsellers when I have read way better books than this that deserve far more attention. ...more As this series goes on the more disappointed I get with these books. The first five were good but it has gone downhill from there. Hopefully it gets better but I seriously doubt it. The last few books just don't have anything interesting in them. Its all about having sex and drinking blood mostly. It didn't get interesting until the last chapter *Rating* 3.0 *Genre* YA Paranormal *Review* I had serious reservations about reading this book and continuing with this series especially with such a horrific main character. Yet again, Zoey is annoying and childish. The why me fascade has become tiresome and boring as all hell. You are no longer a child! You have been given a huge opportunity and yet you whine and cry and mop around like a spoiled brat. Understandably, Zoe finds out that her own mother was murdered and wants answers. The answers s *Rating* 3.0 *Genre* YA Paranormal *Review* I had serious reservations about reading this book and continuing with this series especially with such a horrific main character. Yet again, Zoey is annoying and childish. The why me fascade has become tiresome and boring as all hell. You are no longer a child! You have been given a huge opportunity and yet you whine and cry and mop around like a spoiled brat. Understandably, Zoe finds out that her own mother was murdered and wants answers. The answers she gets were pretty much expected. The whole thing with Stark and Kalona? Just plain creepy. As if we all didn't know who Aurox was after Nyx decided to use him. If you missed that part, go back and read the last book. I honestly thought we had gotten rid of that particular character once and for-all, but this is yet another case of writers retreading thrown away characters. The ending was the best part of the book and of course, it also leaves readers with yet another cliffhanger ending and yet another character eliminated from the series which we pretty much saw coming from a mile away. Still, the question begs to be answered: Can anyone truly trust Kalona and his oath? I really liked Lenobia's part in this story. It's nice to actually step away from all the crap with the Nerd Herd and see what it's like to be a professor at the Tulsa HON under tense circumstances. I'll be interested to see if that storyline continues. I also loved the arrival of Thanatos who is the Priestess of Death and a vampire council member who finds out more than she wanted to about the Tulsa House of Night. I'm hoping beyond hope that now that she is around, Zoey will take her head out of her backside and realize they have a perfect opportunity to take out Neferet before she can start an all out war. So, how many more books until the end exactly? ...more Such an amazing ending! I was crying so much! The 'House Of Night' books are like an episode of Jerry Springer; not at all mentally stimulating, you actually feel dumber for watching it, and yet \u2014 AND YET! \u2014 you can't bring yourself to change the channel; or in this case, stop reading. Somehow this book manages to be quite long even though, nothing really happens. The entirety of this book can really have taken place in one chapter. The \"climax\" was completely obvious and not even vaguely surprising. I found that the best part about the enti The 'House Of Night' books are like an episode of Jerry Springer; not at all mentally stimulating, you actually feel dumber for watching it, and yet \u2014 AND YET! \u2014 you can't bring yourself to change the channel; or in this case, stop reading. Somehow this book manages to be quite long even though, nothing really happens. The entirety of this book can really have taken place in one chapter. The \"climax\" was completely obvious and not even vaguely surprising. I found that the best part about the entire thing was the secondary characters being given a little more depth, not that it's difficult, considering how flat they are to begin with. It's impossible to go into detail since any plot point is a spolier (considering nothing really happens). Following trend, the author's manage to mention not only the iPhone (specifically, as if \"cell phone\" wasn't adequate enough) but also drop in references to 'True Blood' and the Sookie Stackhouse books, LOTR movies and books and 'Game Of Thrones'. Oh, let's not forget the the \"trololo cat\" reference. Yes, memes... they name-drop memes, which are probably outdated by the time the book goes to print. I stand by my earlier assessment that they send the book to the publisher with \"[insert popular thing here]\" that gets filled the day before print. They obviously don't care that these constant, irritating pop culture references completely botch the timeline. If you're late getting into the series \u2014 and by god! I urge you not to pick it up to begin with \u2014 and you read the books back to back, you will see just how these pop culture name-drops do nothing to benefit the story at all, and completely undermine any sense of time relativity. You see, 'Game of Thrones' wasn't out when the last book was released, and that book took place like a week or so before this one, and yet they've saved the whole season on DVR. Okay. Im actually curious as to how they have a DVR considering the living arrangements... The upside is, the editor wasn't a total bum. On the whole this book probably had the least mistakes, mispelling of Damien and \"what it is?\" (both on/around page 14) notwithstanding. All of the teenagers still talk like seven year-olds trying to mimick their older siblings, with all of their slang and crappy made-up words. I find it hard to know the difference between legitimately terrible spelling and grammar or legitimately terrible dialogue; are these mistakes or are the characters really talking like this? All in all, if you like this series \u2014 and I suspect you might, considering this is the ninth book \u2014 you'll probably like it. I only continue read them because, I already started and I can't not finish. They are the guiltest of guilty pleasures and I literally despise myself for the time invested in reading them. I wish this series wasn't being milked, because the story up until this point could have been told in probably four books, not nine. If you have read the series and, like me, have that nagging urge to finish it because you started it, I see nothing wrong with skipping this one altogether. Or, skimming the firt chapter then skipping to the last chapter. I sincerely hope that the next one is the last one, because. I. Cannot. ...more Heath!!!!!!!:):):):) I cant wait for more Heath <3 .. \"Sometimes I think I should have been the one to die and Heath should have been the one who stayed with you. He believed in love a lot more than I do.\" Deepest. Smartest. Most thoughtful. thing Stark said the ENTIRE book. I've always been rooting for Heath but Stark was definatly a close second until I read this. Awesomesauce? Are you freakin kidding me? That is NOT was Stark would have said in any of the other books even if he was trying to m Heath!!!!!!!:):):):) I cant wait for more Heath <3 .. \"Sometimes I think I should have been the one to die and Heath should have been the one who stayed with you. He believed in love a lot more than I do.\" Deepest. Smartest. Most thoughtful. thing Stark said the ENTIRE book. I've always been rooting for Heath but Stark was definatly a close second until I read this. Awesomesauce? Are you freakin kidding me? That is NOT was Stark would have said in any of the other books even if he was trying to make Zoey feel better. Plus I know he's a teenage guy but did he have to be thinking about sex EVERYTIME he was in the book. Ridiculous. *Deep breathe* I don't know about you..but I feel better now. Anyway this was an awesome enstallment in the House of Night series. I just wish it wouldn't have been so repeatative and I wouldn't mind more Aphrodite and Darius. I love them:) ...more i really want to read this book but why does heath have to come back i mean zoey has been through enough stress in her life .Firstly she had to deal with erik the jackass and loren blake slept with her and broke her heart i mean come on leave heath to be dead. From the little tidbits I've heard, this novel is going to be good. For those whom adore the House of Night series, Destined is sure to rock you again. All I'd ask of the Cast duo is a longer novel, Awakened only had 270+ pages for $19.99 is a little much for such a small read. For those thirsting for info, I've heard that Zoey's beloved Human Consort Heath Luck will be returning in the form of a vessel, due to Neferet slaying our poor little Jack. *heartbreak* Nyx offered Heath the ultimate choi From the little tidbits I've heard, this novel is going to be good. For those whom adore the House of Night series, Destined is sure to rock you again. All I'd ask of the Cast duo is a longer novel, Awakened only had 270+ pages for $19.99 is a little much for such a small read. For those thirsting for info, I've heard that Zoey's beloved Human Consort Heath Luck will be returning in the form of a vessel, due to Neferet slaying our poor little Jack. *heartbreak* Nyx offered Heath the ultimate choice; remain in the Otherworld as Good, or return to the world\u2013to Zoey\u2013in the form of Evil? The novel is sure to remind us that true love is not born within just one soul; it can be found in others. Release date: November 5th, 2011 ACoventry ...more I read the entire series thinking that Awakened would be the last book and I was so happy. This series has dragged on for my entire life. They are just milking it. I will write a real review, after I finish this book.. which I will reluctantly probably buy since I just want to know the ending. Is that so much to ask for? There is only so much Zoey and Stevie Rae I can handle! lol 5.5.2011 REPHAIM!!! DON'T MIND ME I'M CRAZY CAN'T WAIT TO READ THIS ^^ To the full review visit my new blog here . Well, I have the last two books (well, books that are out) in the House of Night series in my library box this week. Since I want to finish this project I decided I better start reading them. And honestly, I didn't quite know what to make of this one. I know I always talk about these books being a drinking game and try to relate them in a way where you can actually drink but this one was just an incoherent mess much like Burned except I think Burned had a To the full review visit my new blog here . Well, I have the last two books (well, books that are out) in the House of Night series in my library box this week. Since I want to finish this project I decided I better start reading them. And honestly, I didn't quite know what to make of this one. I know I always talk about these books being a drinking game and try to relate them in a way where you can actually drink but this one was just an incoherent mess much like Burned except I think Burned had a better excuse to be a mess. Heaven forbid, I'm defending PC and Kristin Cast. What is this world coming to? I will say though that as much as I hated Burned (and I really did hate that book) the incoherentness sort of made sense. At least I knew why Zoey's point of view was a mess because she was basically dead. Though here.... Casts. You got to stop with the multiple POVs. Seriously, its making me feel drunk when I'm not drunk. I really don't like having to go online after I finish a book and try to make sense of what I'm reading. And I haven't here. Originally after I read it, I intended to go onto the House of Night Wiki page or what not and see what this POS was about. And I probably will before I torment myself by reading Hidden, but as I thought about how to write this review. I thought, maybe I should let my reviews know what I was thinking when I was reading this. I didn't express myself in status updates (so much) this time because there really wasn't anything to snark about. That's sad when you can't snark about a bad book. That's actually one of the reasons why I occasionally decide to indulge in a bad book because of the snark. So for this installment of the drinking game, here are ten random thoughts that I had during Destined that had me wanting to open a bottle of Yellow Tail at ten o'clock in the morning. 1) Who the hell is talking? Seriously, the random POV were even more random this time around. The Casts need to get this under control. I have real issues when POV shifts in a chapter, even when it is marked. I just don't understand why you can't start a new chapter. I think this is one of the reasons why I appreciated Melissa de la Cruz's Bluebloods series. As fucked up as that particular vampire series got, you always knew whose POV you were getting. Even in the lackluster, Misguided Angel, which format differed from the others you still had a section that was purely one character. I appreciate that, Ms. de la Cruz. Mrs. and Ms. Cast though you gave me a headache that not even a Cherry Coke with extra cherries can cure. 2) Breaking the Fourth wall. Okay, this is probably going to be one of the biggest rants I have in this installment. A few books ago, I want to say Burned, I made a status update regarding the fact that the Casts like to use the \"r\" word a little too much and how that's offensive. Turns out I'm not the only person who found their behavior disgusting. According to The Book Lantern , a reader informed the Casts that its not exactly PC to use the \"r\" word in the fashion that they were using it and Cast Snr. through a hissy fit-very professional. Interestingly enough, a couple of books down the road. One of the characters laughs about people who find said \"r\" word offensive and goes on to state that it should be rape not the word retard that is offensive (Destined Cast and Cast 96). Honestly, Cast Snr. Really? It gets better besides basically stating that people finding the \"r\" word offensive is stupid, the Cast go on excessively commenting how the kids have to ride the short bus throughout the book and essentially mocking it. Did it ever occur to them that kids or adults with special needs might be reading this shit? Having a niece that is physically disabled this offends me on so many levels. Oh, and by the way, Casts, most hotel shuttles are minibus like the ones the kids were riding here. So, what are you trying to even argue here? 3) Trying to solidify relationships by vilifying the other guy. Seriously, this is the worst way to pimp out a romantic relationship. Its an obvious ploy and it just makes people like me annoyed that in this case the Casts make a character completely OOC so they can celebrate their RDJ crush. Or I don't know what King Douche is supposed to be at this point and yes he does still exist...unfortunately. 4) Bestiality. Oh my God, there are so many allusions to Bestiality in this installment its not even funny. And what really gets to me is why Stevie Rae's relationship to Bird Boy (I forget his name and honestly I don't see any point in trying to remember it) is sort of blessed by Nyx and Zoey (who I'm starting to believe is Nyx because almost as many people kiss her butt as Nyx) Neferet's relationship with the white bull isn't. And I'm pretty sure she's having a relationship with him. I think they said something about the bull being her consort. I'm not sure. Once again, I get confused with this shit. The point is, if one animal human relationship is given approval as much as it disgusts me (and it really disgusts me) the other animal human relationship should be looked at the same way. But seriously, why hasn't anyone reported the Casts to PETA? This shit makes my eyes bleed. I am never going to look at bulls and ravens the same way again and I can only imagine how mentally scarred a pre-teen would be. 5) Half of the time I start wondering why even have the boarding school? What purpose does it serve? They don't learn anything except some weird sex ed class about imprinting. And then it makes me wonder why any parent would let their kids read this. And then I remember the EW interview where PC Cast states that it wasn't for her daughter these books would even be more graphic. And then I go EW! 6) Why do the Casts think that anyone who has an accent has improper grammar? Is it that difficult to realize that people from other parts of the world might talk different than you but still write correct sentences? 7) Why do these books always end like an episode of Captain Planet. Seriously, there's earth, fire, wind, water, and...well, there's no heart but there's spirit. And that makes Nyx pop out not Captain Planet. Which is a shame because at this point I really would like CP to come out. Not that I ever liked that show but even that character and his perfume like goddess were more formed than the Cast characters. 8) Why do the Casts like Heath so much? And why are they rifting off of Heaven Can Wait. I actually liked that movie now I can't watch it again. And why does Zoey automatically have to know that Amethyst (his new real name is something else that I can't bother to write down) is actually Heath? Doesn't that sort of take out the whole suspense element. Isn't that sort of dumb with three books to go in a series? You know, One Life To Live actually knew how to play the Heaven Can Wait story without it being annoying. And that's saying something because I hated the character Marcie on that show. 9) Why do I want to read about some two hundred year old something woman banging the guy who picks up horse manure? Why would any teenager want to read about that? And I don't care if he's apparently still young looking an that he's a hot twenty-seven-year-old it's still boring and gross. But then again, Edward Cullen was looked at as sexy and he's what a hundred. But she's not even a main character and it just wasted page space and it was just. So stupid. Horse manure. Horse manure. How could you fall in love with a guy that smells like shit because he works with shit all day long? 10) Why does Zoey end chapters with catchphrases. Does she think she's on Full House? ...more I also have read a few interviews of the authors, and how Kristen doesn't believe that Zoey is old enough to chose just one guy. Really? Does she not realize that that's why 90% of the people are reading these series? Who is going to love the vastly maturing preistess Zeoy Redbird and steal her WHOLE heart? And then finding out that one of the authors doesn't believe in true love? Ya, I'm done. SPOILERS*** Really? Heath? Hmmm. This whole HEATH thing is...slumpish. I think I'm officially done with I also have read a few interviews of the authors, and how Kristen doesn't believe that Zoey is old enough to chose just one guy. Really? Does she not realize that that's why 90% of the people are reading these series? Who is going to love the vastly maturing preistess Zeoy Redbird and steal her WHOLE heart? And then finding out that one of the authors doesn't believe in true love? Ya, I'm done. SPOILERS*** Really? Heath? Hmmm. This whole HEATH thing is...slumpish. I think I'm officially done with this series. From the first chapter of Marked, I disliked Heath. They didn't build up a lovable character at the beginning. And HE KEPT.HANGING. AROUND. (throughout the whole stinkin series). Every time I continued to read about Heath and Zoey having a past since 3rd grade and how 'connected' they were, it was completely unbelievable. And every time Zoey declared his love to him it was...annoying? I just had a hard time falling for Heath. EVER. Good luck bringing him back Casts. ...more", "Title": "Destined"},
