{"Comments": "3.5 stars! Ok, I'm going to be nice and round this up to 4 stars. My reasoning? I LOATHED, HATED Dead Until Dark by this author. I used to be Tru Blood obsessed (<---B>the television series</---B>) and the book series was a huge let down. So when my manager/boss who doesn't read PNR or urban fantasy very often told me that this was a guilty pleasure series, I HAD to read it. Plus this sounded like an adult version of the Meg Cabot (Jenny Carroll) series 1-800-WHERE-R-U, a series I grew up on and loved.<---F> When 3</---F>.5 stars! Ok, I'm going to be nice and round this up to 4 stars. My reasoning? I LOATHED, HATED Dead Until Dark by this author. I used to be Tru Blood obsessed (the television series) and the book series was a huge let down. So when my manager/boss who doesn't read PNR or urban fantasy very often told me that this was a guilty pleasure series, I HAD to read it. Plus this sounded like an adult version of the Meg Cabot (Jenny Carroll) series 1-800-WHERE-R-U, a series I grew up on and loved. When <---C>Harper Connelly</---C> was a teenager she was hit by lightning in a freak accident that should have left her dead. Instead, she is left with the ability to locate dead bodies and can see what happened to them when they die. Harper along with her stepbrother Tolliver, travel the country making a living locating bodies and determining how they died. Most people think she's a quack or spawn of the devil but they keep coming to her for answers. In a small town in Arkansas, Harper is asked to find the body of a teen girl suspected to have been abducted or killed after her boyfriend supposedly committed suicide. Through a series of events Harper and Tolliver become entwined in the investigation of the two deaths despite desperately wanting to leave town. As time goes by and things become more twisted Harper cannot help but become curious, and soon she is working on the case herself. I really enjoyed reading this. It surprised me because I hadn't liked this author's previous work, but this series is strong on its own and honestly much better than the Sookie Stackhouse series. I would love to see this book made into a series or film. So for those of you who like murder mysteries with a little bit of a paranormal aspect, this book is for you. Just ignore that godawful cover. ...more At first, I thought that this books was great. But then... it didn't quite lose its momentum, I just stopped liking the characters. If I've actually ever liked them that is. In this book, everything feels a bit off. You don't feel with or for the characters. Their past,<---M> their troubles</---M>, everything is just \"described\". They are really two-dimensional and you just... don't like them. Especially Harper. Even though this whole book was written from her POV, I didn't feel like knowing her at all. I co At first, I thought that this books was great. But then... it didn't quite lose its momentum, I just stopped liking the characters. If I've actually ever liked them that is. In this book, everything feels a bit off. You don't feel with or for the characters. Their past, their troubles, everything is just \"described\". They are really two-dimensional and you just... don't like them. Especially Harper. Even though this whole book was written from her POV, I didn't feel like knowing her at all. I couldn't step into her shoes. She described her painful past but I still felt as if she was talking about someone else. I thought that she had only two emotional states - panic and coldness. Either she was panicking or she was so emotionally distant and cold that there is no other word to desribe it but frigid. Not in the sexual sense, no. But to me, she felt too distant to care about. The case started in a quite interesting way but as it continued, it was rather easy to figure out what was going on. I will probably buy the next book in this series but definitely in a paperback form only. The series is not good enough to pay for in hardcover. ...more I really liked Harris' Sookie Stackhouse, so I thought I'd give this series a try. It's pretty good. The world is ours - no vampires or other fantasy creatures in this book. Harper, like Sookie, has a limited paranormal ability - she can find dead people & see them, along with the few seconds of their death. The limitations of her 'gift' make the story more interesting. As a heroine, I didn't like Harper as well as Sookie. She's not a happy girl, more depressed & dwelling on her past too I really liked Harris' Sookie Stackhouse, so I thought I'd give this series a try. It's pretty good. The world is ours - no vampires or other fantasy creatures in this book. Harper, like Sookie, has a limited paranormal ability - she can find dead people & see them, along with the few seconds of their death. The limitations of her 'gift' make the story more interesting. As a heroine, I didn't like Harper as well as Sookie. She's not a happy girl, more depressed & dwelling on her past too often (which she admits). She's a lot more vulnerable, but shows the same stubborn streak along with a moral sense that demands she 'makes things right'. She has a tougher time of it, too. She travels a lot & isn't well received. The writing is the same as the Sookie series. Well done, quick & easy to read. The plot was well done & exactly what I'd expect from Harris. The character of Harper permeates the book (as it should, since she's telling the story) & she's just not as upbeat as Sookie, so I didn't end the book with the same optimism, but I'm looking forward to reading the next! ...more Ugh. Just... Ugh. I am beginning to think that the more I read of <---A>Charlaine Harris</---A>, the less I like her. This was just... bad. And creepy. Poorly written, weak plot, cardboard cut-out characters, creepy relationships and creepy romance, and trademark Charlaine Harris character name and detail errors all in one book. I don't even know where to begin... I guess I could just write a list, like our heroine, who Charlaine describes as a list-maker with little opportunity, first does 26 pages from the Ugh. Just... Ugh. I am beginning to think that the more I read of Charlaine Harris, the less I like her. This was just... bad. And creepy. Poorly written, weak plot, cardboard cut-out characters, creepy relationships and creepy romance, and trademark Charlaine Harris character name and detail errors all in one book. I don't even know where to begin... I guess I could just write a list, like our heroine, who Charlaine describes as a list-maker with little opportunity, first does 26 pages from the end of the book. You'd think, in a mystery, that a list writer would probably, maybe, keep a list while she's running around tracking down all those clues. Guess not. More likely, Charlaine (hereafter known as \"CH\") just wanted to rehash everything and wrote in a \"personality trait\" to do so. Speaking of personality, oh lordy me. Were there any personalities in this book? From ANYONE? Harper was just about as boring and cold and unlikeable a character as I've ever read. Why anyone would want to read an entire series about her is beyond me. Tolliver, her brother, is essentially an assistant/care-giver/babysitter/bodyguard to Harper, and besides being a womanizer, he's boring and uninteresting. Hollis is the Haunted Small-Town Cop\u2122. Sybil is the Cold Rich Widow\u2122. Mary Nell is the Teen Cheerleader (With Jealous Teen Admirer) Who Is Lovestruck for Mysterious Older Man\u2122. There is nobody, at all, in this book that was even remotely interesting or unique. Harper's relationship with her 'brother' is super creepy. SUPER. CREEPY. Even if Harper and Tolliver aren't blood related, their relationship is just... disturbing. Harper is almost totally and completely dependent on Tolliver. She's jealous of his conquests, and he of hers, although neither come right out and say so, but their ONLY disagreements with each other were over the other half making the beast with two backs with some \"outsider\". They talk about buying a house together, and Harper talks about the possibility of Tolliver marrying, and fleetingly thinks of that for herself, but she seems very reluctant to think about that, and the thought of Tolliver committing himself to someone besides her seems to give her anxiety. Harper's parents were well-to-do who didn't do too well, and became alcohol and drug dependent and neglected the kids, but that's OK because the kids had each other... mostly. Apparently, this, along with Harper's injury, the one which caused her ability to sense the dead, are where her co-dependence on her brother stems from, but I don't get it. OK, right, you're struck by lightning. Sure, you'd be afraid of storms afterward. Logical. What is not logical is sheer panic when your \"lifeline\" brother is out of your line of sight for any length of time without a suitable male stand-in. OMG noes! HOW will you copez?!1? Harper and Tolliver seem more like exes who realized that they love each other but are better as friends but who don't really want to let go either. He called her \"baby\" and \"honey\", and, sorry, but if my brother ever called me that I'd be really, really grossed out. Harper is even described as having her stomach clench when Tolliver \"sweet talks\" someone else. CREEPY. Then, there's the \"back story\" that CH probably should start hinting at if she wants to drag this out into another too-long series... This includes Harper Family Mystery and Drama. There's the Parental Situation I mentioned above, for starters. Then there's one missing and presumed dead sister that Harper is very clinically detached and cold (aka \"avoiding false hope\") about, but determined to find, at least her body, and two other sisters raised by Tolliver's religious and manipulative aunt to despise Tolliver and Harper both for reasons unknown. I'm sure that will come out somewhere in book 8 or 9. Stick with it. All in all, there was just no... substance there. It was like the details were thrown in because they had to be, not because they were the characters' actual histories. Sorry Charlaine, you need to know your characters before any reader can. Giving her a gimp leg and some superficial insecurities along with saying that her hobbies include reading and nail-painting isn't characterization. Nor is giving someone acne scars and then saying that he likes really smooth skinned women probably because of that. Harper's thing with Hollis is another kind of creepy in itself. I really have to wonder what kind of publisher would read this and say, \"Yes! This is what we've been waiting to publish!!\". We have either a way, way too close brother and sister relationship or a way dysfunctional couple-night stand relationship with extremely-recently-widowed young cop. Hmm... Neither one is exactly steaming up THESE windows. The story takes place in very late October/early November. Hollis's wife Sally died sometime after February. That's eight months. He gets all almost choked up when he talks about her, and he says he loved her, and even hired Harper to tell him some info about how she died. OK... not creepy so far. Then Hollis and Harper do the nasty. Strange, but not unheard of. Then, during the course of the \"investigation\", this appears: (There are Sally death spoilers!) \"I'm sorry,\" I said, making a great effort. \"I know this is dredging up stuff for you that you're trying to put behind you.\" \"No, I'm not trying to put Sally behind me,\" he said. \"But I am trying to think about the rest of my life. And the ideas of the last few days, the idea that Sally was murdered, that the son of a bitch who did it has been walking around this town, talking to me, free, has been curdling my gut. And the fact that every time I see you, I want to screw you so bad it hurts. You practically break into my house, my damn house, and I want to fuck you right here on the floor.\" Then they did. WHAT?!? You go from talking about your DEAD LESS THAN 8 MONTHS WIFE to screwing some new girl in TWO SENTENCES?? It was described as \"short and violent and the most exciting encounter Harper had ever experienced.\" CREEPY. I almost closed the book right there. That was just... too much. But I was curious about the mystery. I wanted to know. I finished it. I want my two days back. There's absolutely, positively no way that I will be reading any more of this series. It's also unlikely that I'll be reading anything else CH's written. It's sad, because I quite liked the first few books of the Sookie Stackhouse series, but now I'm even doubting myself on that. Don't read this. It's BAD. Did I mention it was creepy too? ...more First in the Harper Connelly paranormal mystery series, featuring this young lady who has the ability to speak to the dead after being struck by lightning at the age of fifteen. She and her step-brother, Tolliver, travel around taking assignments to locate bodies. They work mostly on word of mouth, and for the most part are treated as something akin to the freaks in a circus side-show. While Harper can\u2019t tell who killed the person if they were murdered, she can tell how they died, and actually r First in the Harper Connelly paranormal mystery series, featuring this young lady who has the ability to speak to the dead after being struck by lightning at the age of fifteen. She and her step-brother, Tolliver, travel around taking assignments to locate bodies. They work mostly on word of mouth, and for the most part are treated as something akin to the freaks in a circus side-show. While Harper can\u2019t tell who killed the person if they were murdered, she can tell how they died, and actually relives the last moments of the person\u2019s life. In our introduction to this interesting duo, Harper and Tolliver are summoned to Sarn, Arkansas by a wealthy widow who wants to locate the body of her dead son\u2019s girlfriend, Tini Hopkins. Sybil Teague is upset because Del\u2019s (her son) good name has been under a cloud for these many months since his death, as it\u2019s rumored that he killed Tini and then himself, but Tini\u2019s body was never found. Since she was a bit of a \u2018wild girl,\u2019 some folks think she just went away. Sybil wants to put the rumors to rest. Harper DOES find Tini\u2019s body, discovers that she was shot twice in the back and also visits Del\u2019s grave and discovers that he most certainly didn\u2019t commit suicide. Harper and Tolliver are not made to feel welcome in Sarn at all, and while they want nothing more than to head on out to their next assignment, they are cautioned by the sheriff to stick around when Helen Hopkins, Tini\u2019s mother, is found bludgeoned to death shortly after they visited her at her request. I liked this book a lot. The reader was excellent and I felt that she brought out the voice of Harper very well and helped me to understand her a little. I did think that the relationship between Tolliver and Harper was a bit weird, almost to the point of making me uncomfortable, and there were times when Harper\u2019s vulnerability was a little tiresome\u2014but then, she has had a very difficult life, even with the whole \u201cI\u2019ve been struck by lightning\u201d thing aside, and her character was written in such a way that she wasn\u2019t really trying to get sympathy or make excuses for her weakness, she just had very much of an \u201cI am what I am\u201d aura about her, and I liked that. I also thought Harper was pretty mature, given that she\u2019s only twenty-four years old\u2014it seemed that life has made her wise beyond her years. I have already got the downloadable version of the next book in this series on my list at the library and I don\u2019t think it will be too long before I actually go and get it! A ...more **2015 Reading Challenge W/Josh: #42 A Book You Own But Never Read** Great book! Harper was struck with lightening when she was young. Since then she has sort of a beacon that directs her to dead bodies. Once close enough she can see how that specific person died and see their last moments. Though she can't ever see the murderer (if the person was murdered). So she is called out to this small town to find a body of a girl that went missing a while back. While on the job lots of questionable shit **2015 Reading Challenge W/Josh: #42 A Book You Own But Never Read** Great book! Harper was struck with lightening when she was young. Since then she has sort of a beacon that directs her to dead bodies. Once close enough she can see how that specific person died and see their last moments. Though she can't ever see the murderer (if the person was murdered). So she is called out to this small town to find a body of a girl that went missing a while back. While on the job lots of questionable shit happens and other murders are brought to the forefront and chaos ensues. I kind of figured out the motive behind the murders pretty early on. (view spoiler) [Since so much emphasis was placed upon who the biological father of the dead girl was. (hide spoiler) ] What I couldn't pinpoint was who the actual murderer was. Another aspect of the book was the very close, borderline incestuous relationship Harper had with her step-brother, Tolliver. She is extremely dependent on him not only professionally but for emotional stability. Harper has some extreme anxiety issues that only Tolliver can keep grounded. You can feel the sexual tension between these two and I would not be surprised if they actually hook up later on in the series. No they are not blood related but she refers to him as her brother through the entire book. This does not bother me in the slightest. Bring on that step-sibling lovin'! ...more Quick review: Cover: Interesting Rating: NC-17 Steaminess: Steam Thumbs Up: 4 Overall: I found it very interesting Characters: Well Done Plot: Small town secret come to bite you every time Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Tolliver SUMMARY (50 words or less) Okay, so mysteries are my first love so I enjoyed this one. I had it figured out but still enjoyed watching it unfold. I liked Tolliver and Harper\u2019s relationship. I like the tension and the dynamics created betwee Quick review: Cover: Interesting Rating: NC-17 Steaminess: Steam Thumbs Up: 4 Overall: I found it very interesting Characters: Well Done Plot: Small town secret come to bite you every time Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Tolliver SUMMARY (50 words or less) Okay, so mysteries are my first love so I enjoyed this one. I had it figured out but still enjoyed watching it unfold. I liked Tolliver and Harper\u2019s relationship. I like the tension and the dynamics created between them and I overall enjoyed the story. For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at: http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2... Audio Review Alyssa Bresnahan did a really good job with this series. She really brought this series to life for me. ...more I called this mystery cozy, but it really wasn't cozy. In fact, it was nearly at the edge of my tolerance for mysteries. Things I really liked: Harper and her brother. The descriptions, especially Harper's worldview, given what had happened to her. Glimpses of the numinous, though those were rare and wispy, more rare than the humor, which was also sparse. Things that pushed me toward the edge: claustrophobic atmosphere, and far too many murders, especially of helpless people. The thing is, I don' I called this mystery cozy, but it really wasn't cozy. In fact, it was nearly at the edge of my tolerance for mysteries. Things I really liked: Harper and her brother. The descriptions, especially Harper's worldview, given what had happened to her. Glimpses of the numinous, though those were rare and wispy, more rare than the humor, which was also sparse. Things that pushed me toward the edge: claustrophobic atmosphere, and far too many murders, especially of helpless people. The thing is, I don't read mysteries because I don't want to read about murders. One, especially of a dislikable person, is my favorite. I like mysteries that don't have anything to do with murder. This one had a depressing set of characters, histories, and murders . . . I did some skimming through the middle, as we descended to one note, everyone hating on Harper as she grimly pushed forward to assemble clues. But I will try another, as I did like those things up top. ...more Well...It wasn't awful, but it wasn't great. I'm unsure how I feel about it. I did stay up till 1:30 am finishing the book up, so that says something...right? Due to a freak lightning strike when she was a teen, Harper Connelly has the ability to find dead bodies and know how they died. She and her brother (step-brother, we find out later), Tolliver, make a living locating bodies for grieving families. Of course, most of the families aren't as grateful as you would think. I guess it's the \"shoot Well...It wasn't awful, but it wasn't great. I'm unsure how I feel about it. I did stay up till 1:30 am finishing the book up, so that says something...right? Due to a freak lightning strike when she was a teen, Harper Connelly has the ability to find dead bodies and know how they died. She and her brother (step-brother, we find out later), Tolliver, make a living locating bodies for grieving families. Of course, most of the families aren't as grateful as you would think. I guess it's the \"shoot the messenger\" syndrome. That...and she freaks people out. The story starts when they are called in to locate the body of a missing teenage girl in a small town. They locate her, and determine that she was murdered. Nothing was unusual about this job until the girl's mother is found dead within hours of speaking to the two of them. The local authorities become suspicious and ask them not to leave town. Even though they both have solid alibis, they decide to stay because they are afraid their business will suffer from bad word of mouth. They spend the rest of the book regretting that decision and trying to figure out who-done-it, so they can get out of there. Honestly, I didn't find myself really caring what happened to either one of them. Harper seemed to have very few qualities that I liked. If she wasn't having a full-on panic attack, she was sulking, whining, or just generally feeling sorry for herself. Toliver seemed to be a one-dimensional character. He was Harper's protector/a man-whore. I thought the mystery of who-done-it and why-they-done-it was fairly obvious, too. I think that was why I went ahead and finished up the book last night. I kept thinking that it couldn't be that easy...there must be some huge twist at the end. Nope. I do love Charlaine Harris' Sookie series, so I may try to give the Harper books another shot. I know I didn't fall in love with the Sookie books until I read the second one, so maybe it will be the same thing with this series. ...more One of Charlaine Harris' mystery series, with a touch of the supernatural mixed in. After being struck by lightning in her teens, Harper gains the ability to see the last few moments of a person's life when she comes in contact with their body. As an adult, she makes the best of her ability by helping people find closure by locating the remains of their missing relatives. Harper, along with her stepbrother Tolliver, come to the Ozarks looking for the body of a teen girl in what is believed to be One of Charlaine Harris' mystery series, with a touch of the supernatural mixed in. After being struck by lightning in her teens, Harper gains the ability to see the last few moments of a person's life when she comes in contact with their body. As an adult, she makes the best of her ability by helping people find closure by locating the remains of their missing relatives. Harper, along with her stepbrother Tolliver, come to the Ozarks looking for the body of a teen girl in what is believed to be a murder/suicide. Doubts quickly arise as to the true nature of the crime, and the pair are introduced to the darker side of the small town as the search for a killer begins. Matters are complicated as they themselves are threatened by unknown sources - the killer? Or just members of the town who mistrust Harper, and her abilities... ~*~*~*~*~ I didn't mind this series (more the first three books, though). A lot of the characters speech and behaviour seem similar to those of Sookie & Cast from the True Blood series - Southern mannerisms, I suppose. Fans of the True Blood books may like this series more than her other mysteries, as it does include some supernatural influence. This first book is a quick mystery, convoluted enough to keep readers interested as they try to figure out who is behind the deaths. The small-town cast is fairly easy to keep track of, and everyone seems to be connected somehow. Good for more the cozy-mystery set, I think, than fans of 'Detective Noirs' for example. ...more <+++>Grave Sight</+++> 4 Stars Harper Connelly has the unique ability to sense not only the whereabout of human remains, but also the cause of death. Together with her stepbrother/business manager, Tolliver Lang, Harper travels to Sarne Alabama at the request of a grieving mother desperate to locate the body of the young woman her deceased son is accused of killing in a murder/suicide. However, this seemingly simple case takes a dangerous turn when Harper becomes the target of someone determined to keep the <+++>Grave Sight</+++> 4 Stars Harper Connelly has the unique ability to sense not only the whereabout of human remains, but also the cause of death. Together with her stepbrother/business manager, Tolliver Lang, Harper travels to Sarne Alabama at the request of a grieving mother desperate to locate the body of the young woman her deceased son is accused of killing in a murder/suicide. However, this seemingly simple case takes a dangerous turn when Harper becomes the target of someone determined to keep the truth buried... Charlaine Harris\u2019s cozy mysteries are rapidly becoming addictive. Harris is a master at characterization and is exceptionally skilled at capturing the essence of small town life (although not everyone is Sarne is as open and accepting of Harper\u2019s differences). Harper's dry, matter of fact personality and intriguing abilities make her a very appealing heroine. She and Tolliver have an interesting dynamic as they share a closeness not usually found in non-biological siblings, and there is a certain amount of subtle sexual tension between the two that they are apparently not yet ready to confront. The who-done-it is well written with a number of plausible suspects and sufficient clues to figure out the twist before the end. The incorporation of paranormal elements feels natural and adds another layer to the suspense. Alyssa Bresnahan's narration is well-executed and she relays the dry wit and stoicism inherent to Harper's character very well. Looking forward to Harper and Tolliver's further adventures. ...more ***SPOILER ALERT: This has information about the entire series, so I might have inadvertently given something away ahead of time -- YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!*** I straight up LOVE this series. It consists of four books, and that is a perfect number. I get tired of series which go on forever, because they tend to lose their \"Oomph\" factor after a while. This one kept me hooked throughout, and I read all four books in a row, something I never usually do. This might just be me, but the whole \"forbidden lo ***SPOILER ALERT: This has information about the entire series, so I might have inadvertently given something away ahead of time -- YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!*** I straight up LOVE this series. It consists of four books, and that is a perfect number. I get tired of series which go on forever, because they tend to lose their \"Oomph\" factor after a while. This one kept me hooked throughout, and I read all four books in a row, something I never usually do. This might just be me, but the whole \"forbidden love\" angle was amazing. I know some readers were turned off by it, but GET REAL PEOPLE! They weren't genetically related, so what does it matter? Also the central mystery plays out well across all four books, and its resolution is AMAZING! The book reads so fast, it almost reads itself. For a quick, paranormal indulgence, you can't go wrong with this one. ...more I have never read a Charlaine Harris book. I did not (and probably won't) read her Sookie Stackhouse series because a) I discovered them when my vampire paranormal reading enjoyment was seriously on the wane and 2)I really like the Alan Ball version of her books on HBO. So I prefer to stick with the televised series and not read the books. I hadn't realized until very recently that she wrote other series. I saw a blurb on the most recent Harper Connelly book and it looked very interesting so I d I have never read a Charlaine Harris book. I did not (and probably won't) read her Sookie Stackhouse series because a) I discovered them when my vampire paranormal reading enjoyment was seriously on the wane and 2)I really like the Alan Ball version of her books on HBO. So I prefer to stick with the televised series and not read the books. I hadn't realized until very recently that she wrote other series. I saw a blurb on the most recent Harper Connelly book and it looked very interesting so I decided to start at the beginning. This series follows Harper Connelly, a woman who was struck by lightning at the age of 12 and who, as a result, can find dead people. She can also tell how they died. She sees the last moments of their life. Because of her special skills she finds that she is in demand from various people for various reasons. People will hire her to learn about the death of their loved ones. But even though she is hired, she is also the subject of fear, ridicule, derision and sometimes harassment because of it. She is accompanied by her step brother Tolliver who acts as her manager of sorts. He also grounds her. Her ability can be debilitating and because of her being a lightning strike survivor, Harper has some issues both psychological and physical. In this book the two of them are hired by the richest widow of a small town in the South to find the body of a missing teenager. Harper does, but finding the body of Teenie Harper sets off a series of events that serve to unearth a whole host of unsavory town secrets. The story itself is a fairly standard sort of small town secrets, murder mystery dealie. What set this book apart for me was learning about Harper and Tolliver. I think Harris does a superb job of revealing their family background in such a way that makes it informative and interesting without it being a data dump or too expositional. And what a family background it is. I often talk about an author who can add texture to a book, and Harris does it extremely well just by giving Harper and Tolliver the family background she has. I also like how she positions Harper and Tolliver toward each other. They staunchly introduce each other and brother and sister, but in fact they share no blood relation at all. There is a sexual tension underneath their dealings with each other that is very, very subtle. Again, kudos to the writer for not making it glaring, romance novel obvious. There are just ephermal whiffs of it that peep through once or twice even as they are pursuing sexual relationships with other people. I highly recommend. ...more \"Grave Sight\" is the first book in Harris' newest mystery series. After reading her Sookie Stackhouse books, I checked out all her other series. I am weirdly addicted to Charlaine's writing and her books will probably forever remain my guilty pleasure. I liked all Aurora Teagarden books (this librarian who lives in a tiny southern town sure finds herself in a middle of murder investigations quite often) and disliked Lily Bard series (too much pointless violence). I think I will like Harper Conne \"Grave Sight\" is the first book in Harris' newest mystery series. After reading her Sookie Stackhouse books, I checked out all her other series. I am weirdly addicted to Charlaine's writing and her books will probably forever remain my guilty pleasure. I liked all Aurora Teagarden books (this librarian who lives in a tiny southern town sure finds herself in a middle of murder investigations quite often) and disliked Lily Bard series (too much pointless violence). I think I will like Harper Connelly. This series has a little paranormal element to it, but it's very far from being an outright urban fantasy (like Sookie books are). After being struck by lightning, Harper can \"feel\" dead bodies and their causes of death. This is the extent of \"paranormalcy,\" the rest is just straight mystery. In this book Harper and her step brother Tolliver are invited to Sarne, a small AR town, to help find body of a missing teenage girl. The body is found very quickly, but this discovery for some mysterious reason triggers a series of crimes, some against Harper and Tolliver. The two are forced to stay in town and eventually uncover who is behind these awful crimes. I enjoyed this book very much. I found the characters very interesting and vivid (Harris is at her best here), and mystery engaging. Even though I figured out who the perpetrator was early on, I still enjoyed the writing. I did find that Harper's back story was a bit of stretch - mother and stepfather attorneys who succumbed to their drug addiction, sister kidnapped, father in jail, the list goes on. Nevertheless, I am planning to continue reading about Harper, the 4th book in the series just came out. Reading challenge: #13 - mystery ...more Thank goodness Charlaine Harris has more than one series going, so I can continue to get my fix! This woman is an extremely talented writer and has come up with another character worth reading about. Harper Connelly is a woman who was struck by lightning as a teen, and this has left her with the ability to find dead bodies and say what they died of. She makes her living doing this, which is the core of this book series. In Grave Sight, Harper is called to a town to find the body of a young girl Thank goodness Charlaine Harris has more than one series going, so I can continue to get my fix! This woman is an extremely talented writer and has come up with another character worth reading about. Harper Connelly is a woman who was struck by lightning as a teen, and this has left her with the ability to find dead bodies and say what they died of. She makes her living doing this, which is the core of this book series. In Grave Sight, Harper is called to a town to find the body of a young girl who was supposedly killed by her boyfriend, who then committed suicide. Harper finds the body and when she \"reads\" the boyfriend's grave, she discovers that he was also murdered. Harper and her brother get involved in the unraveling case of these murders, and others that are related. I was guessing \"whodunit\" right up until the end. And, with her other book series, Charlaine Harris gives us something to think about as we empathize with the main characters. In this case, Harper Connelly has to deal every day with people who think she is a con artist and who not only treat her rudely, but threaten her safety. Harris has hit another home run with this series. ...more This was the first Charlaine Harris book I'd read so didn't know what to expect. Story-wise it's a good mystery and I didn't guess the ending until...well, the end. I just never really felt connected to the characters though. Harper is really hard to figure out, one minute she's streetsmart and mouthy, the next she's a wreck and can't function because she's like a little-girl-lost. I'm not sure if this will be explained a little more in the next books but so far she's not that likeable. Her brot This was the first Charlaine Harris book I'd read so didn't know what to expect. Story-wise it's a good mystery and I didn't guess the ending until...well, the end. I just never really felt connected to the characters though. Harper is really hard to figure out, one minute she's streetsmart and mouthy, the next she's a wreck and can't function because she's like a little-girl-lost. I'm not sure if this will be explained a little more in the next books but so far she's not that likeable. Her brother Tolliver is a bit of a mystery too and I'm still not sure what makes him tick. It's a good book but I'm hoping it will become a bit more fleshed out in the rest of the series. I was hoping for more of her special ability of being able to 'speak' to the departed and the story did revolve around this, but there wasn't very much of that side of things this time. It held my interest to find out where things were headed all the way through so I'd recommend it, but it's a fairly quick read and if I'm honest not a lot happened in this one. ...more Reread this time by audiobook - I also have the paperback. Harper can find dead bodies and figure out how people died. She's hired to go to a town to look for a missing girl and get embroiled in a huge F-up there. I really like these books but just to warn you they're very dark and not humerous at all. As I was listening to this book I started to realize that Charlaine Harris is one deep woman. Her books are so different and so intriguing. She really is a talented writer. I read through this book quickly, in two settings, and was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. I read it for a book club that I am sort of a member of (only \"sort of\" because I only ever started reading the books they were reading because they meet at the store where I work, while I'm working), and wasn't sure if I'd get much of anything out of it. It is a book that walks the tightrope between two currently-popular genres, \"cozy romance-themed mystery\" and \"chick-lit paranormal mystery.\" Not bei I read through this book quickly, in two settings, and was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. I read it for a book club that I am sort of a member of (only \"sort of\" because I only ever started reading the books they were reading because they meet at the store where I work, while I'm working), and wasn't sure if I'd get much of anything out of it. It is a book that walks the tightrope between two currently-popular genres, \"cozy romance-themed mystery\" and \"chick-lit paranormal mystery.\" Not being the target demographic for either of these categories, I wasn't sure what this book would have to offer me. While it was hardly deathless classic literature, though, I did find myself enjoying it. For one thing, I wasn't expecting it to have as dark of a tone as it had. The main character, Harper Connelly, was struck by lightning as a teenager. In addition to the recurring health problems that she's had ever since, she also gained the ability to detect corpses, and to see how they died. Working with her (step)brother, Tolliver, she parlayed this ability into a career, doing freelance work finding bodies and naming causes of death for curious relatives and others with an interest in such things. This is a rather dodgy and unreliable line of work, as the plot of \"Grave Sight\" shows us. Harper and Tolliver arrive in a small Arkansas town to attempt to find a local teenaged girl who disappeared months before. She had been dating a local boy who'd been found shot and killed in some woods outside of town months before. A lot of the townsfolk think that the boy, Dell, must have shot the girl, Teenie, and then killed himself. Dell's mother hires Harper to locate Teenie's body and determine how she died, with the hopes of proving that Dell didn't kill her. Harper locates the body quickly, and determines that Dell indeed did not kill Teenie, but instead of calming the situation, this only sets the town into a more pronounced uproar, which drags both Harper and Tolliver right into the middle of it and ends up involving everyone from high school football players to the town drunk to high-powered lawyers and the local sheriff. All of these people are related, you see, in one way or another, and the nature of the town, which has everyone in everyone else's business, makes the whole thing an emotional powderkeg waiting for a spark just like the one Harper has unwittingly struck to send the whole thing sky-high. Some of the plot points of this book seemed a bit obvious, while others seemed a little tossed-off and not explained all that well in terms of character motivation, but on the whole, I did find the story to be well-told. The characters mostly worked most of the time, and while most of the secondary ones were one-dimensional and not fleshed-out much at all, Harper and Tolliver were at least multi-dimensional, compelling, and sympathetic. In terms of quick, engaging mystery that requires little deep thought, this book did a good job of filling its role. I typically look for more profound reading material than this, and probably won't return to the series anytime soon, but all in all, it really wasn't too bad. ...more May have slight spoilers. In this first novel of Charlaine Harris\u2019s Harper Connelly series we meet Harper and her stepbrother and manager Tolliver; Harper has a talent for finding dead people after being struck by lightening and now helps people out to find their loved ones and sometimes just tells them the cause of death. Right now they are in Sarne, looking for the body of Monteen \"Teenie\" Hopkins, who disappeared after her client Sybil Teague son\u2019s Dell death. The only problem is that nobody re May have slight spoilers. In this first novel of Charlaine Harris\u2019s Harper Connelly series we meet Harper and her stepbrother and manager Tolliver; Harper has a talent for finding dead people after being struck by lightening and now helps people out to find their loved ones and sometimes just tells them the cause of death. Right now they are in Sarne, looking for the body of Monteen \"Teenie\" Hopkins, who disappeared after her client Sybil Teague son\u2019s Dell death. The only problem is that nobody really wants Harper there, especially after the body is found, two other body are confirmed as \u2018murdered\u2019 and another death strikes Sarne again. I admit that I think I may have liked this book a whole lot more the first time I read it. Not to say I did not like it, it is a good novel, unique plot, the mystery kept me guess, even this time around truthfully I had for got who the bad guy was, so it held my attention. I found Harper to be a intriguing character her talents is still nothing I have read in any other book, that I can remember, but I think I found Tolliver even more interesting. Probably because he wasn\u2019t the main character so though we \u2018know\u2019 him and about him, we never really got in his head like we did Harper\u2019s. The \u2018hot romance\u2019 in this book just didn\u2019t, well; to me it wasn\u2019t very \u2018hot\u2019. I read a lot of erotica so that could be the reason for my thinking it was kind of lacking; I do suppose for a mystery novel the elements of the romance was quite interesting but I still found it kind of lacking. Altogether, I liked this book, for the first book in the series it gives you all the details of the characters, uncovers their mysteries so to speak as well it gives us the next book setting, too. I would recommend this novel to anyone who is interested in a good paranormal read. ...more I'm probably only one of two people in the world who isn't a fan of the Sookie Stackhouse series, but I was definitely looking forward to reading Charlaine Harris's GRAVE SIGHT. I wasn't disappointed--I think this book is an excellent start to a new series. Harper and her brother, Tolliver, are both interesting and well-developed characters with the requisite flaws to keep them entertaining. When Harper was a teen-ager, she was struck by lightning--and given an extraordinary gift in the form of I'm probably only one of two people in the world who isn't a fan of the Sookie Stackhouse series, but I was definitely looking forward to reading Charlaine Harris's GRAVE SIGHT. I wasn't disappointed--I think this book is an excellent start to a new series. Harper and her brother, Tolliver, are both interesting and well-developed characters with the requisite flaws to keep them entertaining. When Harper was a teen-ager, she was struck by lightning--and given an extraordinary gift in the form of the ability to find dead bodies, and relive their last moments of life (i.e. tell how they died). She travels around the country with her brother as her assistant/bodyguard/accountant, traveling to aid whoever has hired her to find the body of a loved one or determine if they met with foul play. As they travel to the town of Sarne, the bodies start piling up, Harper and Tolliver are suddenly suspects in a murder, and the suspect list just keeps growing and growing. The outcome was definitely, at least to me, unexpected, and I thoroughly enjoyed this beginning of Ms. Harris's new series. The only small problem I had with the book was it's verrrrry slow-moving pace. I felt like the whole book could have been told in about 100 less pages, but it might just be that I was feeling in a hurry. Overall, GRAVE SIGHT was a dark, brooding, suspenseful read--just the kind I like! ...more I'm not sure how I feel about this one yet. I'm a fan of Ms. Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series. So I decided to check this one out. At first I was really enjoying it. I started connecting with the characters right away. Then about halfway through it all just fell apart. Even though it was written in first person, it seemed distant. And when I'm reading first person, I want to feel like I'm part of the story. While reading this one, I didn't feel like I was really in Harper's head. I felt like I w I'm not sure how I feel about this one yet. I'm a fan of Ms. Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series. So I decided to check this one out. At first I was really enjoying it. I started connecting with the characters right away. Then about halfway through it all just fell apart. Even though it was written in first person, it seemed distant. And when I'm reading first person, I want to feel like I'm part of the story. While reading this one, I didn't feel like I was really in Harper's head. I felt like I was outside looking in. In the end, though, I was interested enough to seek out the second book. ...more I really liked this one, especially since it's got me out of my bad book run! \"Grave sight\" was full of mystery, and it was done really well. There was so many suspicious deaths to crack, and secrets to uncover, so it never got boring. I really liked the main character, Harper. The majority of people treated her horribly, and always tried to belittle her and her gift. Harper wouldn't take any crap from them though, and never got embarrassed over her gift. I loved the relationship between her and her s I really liked this one, especially since it's got me out of my bad book run! \"Grave sight\" was full of mystery, and it was done really well. There was so many suspicious deaths to crack, and secrets to uncover, so it never got boring. I really liked the main character, Harper. The majority of people treated her horribly, and always tried to belittle her and her gift. Harper wouldn't take any crap from them though, and never got embarrassed over her gift. I loved the relationship between her and her step brother, It was so sweet how he joined her with every trip, and he was really protective over her. Overall, it was a really enjoyable read. I'll be reading the sequels soon. ...more Harper Connelly has a special ability. She can sense where dead people are and how they died. When she and her brother Tolliver get called to the town of Sarne Arkansas, she finds much more than the body she was paid to recover. Harper is not the most endearing heroine we've ever read about. Nor was the mystery very difficult to figure out. But for me it all worked as something different than anything else I've read lately. I'd go 3.75 stars but will round up for originality. I love quirky characters and stories that are totally different. I hit the jackpot with this series! As much as I love Harper and Tolliver... the truth is they're weird. This series is part mystery, part semi-paranormal with a little bit of taboo romance thrown in to boot! It's one of my favorites! I would have given this book 3 1/2 stars if I had the option. I enjoyed it. I started this series because the author wrote the books that the \"True Blood\" HBO series is based on. I like that show! Really love this series. Fell in love with the characters. The prologue was perhaps the most intriguing, dark, intoeresting bit of fiction I have read in a long time and had me pulled completely into the story from the get-go. I went back to the library before finishing this book to get two through four in the series, since I knew very well I'd be in it for the long haul. The idea has been done before, for sure, but Harris has the ability to write compelling main characters and she pulls out all the stops with Harper and her brother/manager/bodyguard/com The prologue was perhaps the most intriguing, dark, intoeresting bit of fiction I have read in a long time and had me pulled completely into the story from the get-go. I went back to the library before finishing this book to get two through four in the series, since I knew very well I'd be in it for the long haul. The idea has been done before, for sure, but Harris has the ability to write compelling main characters and she pulls out all the stops with Harper and her brother/manager/bodyguard/comfort blanket, Tolliver. Flawed, cynical, and utterly devoted to each other, they give these books the extra star all on their own. Mystery-wise, it was a little predictable (view spoiler) [ - I saw the importance of the note and the biology book immediately, and guessed what the connection between Paul, Dell and Teenie early on - (hide spoiler) ] , but I still thoroughly enjoyed it. It's ok when the reader can guess the mystery, I think, as long as the clues are introduced in an interesting way and the characters' mental capacities aren't downgraded into that of a chimp in order to prolong the agony mystery (still looking at you, October Daye). I didn't see some of the twists coming, and there was enough action and drama to keep my interested even though I guessed some of them before the grand reveal. Negatives: One, the secondary characters. (view spoiler) [ Mary Nell was crazy for absolutely no reason. I get that she was supposed to be a love-torn teenager, but seriously? That was just crazy. I don't really get why the entire town was so disgusted (a word used a lot ) with Harper that they were willing to commit crimes including assault, breaking and entering, conspiracy, unlawful detainment, etc, all from people who had nothing to do with the murders. I liked some of the secondaries, but not many of them, which I suppose makes sense since they are only in the series for one book and then Tolliver and Harper will move on, but still. I had a few seriously ??\" moments while I was reading. (hide spoiler) ] I suppose that leads nicely into my plot complaints since I think a few scenes were so contrived that they felt like they should have more significance to the mystery than they actually did. (view spoiler) [ Harper and Mary Nell spending all that time together after Tolliver was arrested, Scotty's repeated attacks on Harper, and the shootings all come to mind. (hide spoiler) ] These events have significance, but they just felt a little off in how they were introduced. Last complaint was that it took a long time to understand Harper. (view spoiler) [ Specifically, her need for Tolliver and their relationship. I was sure there was something suspicious there for a long part of the book. I think what threw me off was that she faked a panic attack in the police station to get him out of questioning, and then she went into absolute damsel mode when he was arrested. I was very confused about that until I realized that the lightning gave her serious anxiety and she actually does need him. In addition, all their arguing about their sex lives and her fantasizing about buying a house with him, and her endless musing on him one day marrying gave mixed signals about their relationship, which is platonic and brother-sister, but I was expecting this to change and it creeped me out. (hide spoiler) ] However, I thoroughly liked her and loved that she was given very real flaws, both physically and psychologically. She's at no point melodramatic, either, which I liked very much. She reads like a real person facing an actual world and her personal challenges, and that was what really drew me to the book. I'm a little obsessed at this point and will probably finish all four books within a few days because they are utterly engaging and the over-arching mystery that has been introduced is going to keep me turning pages until a conclusion is reached there. ...more I started off reading the book and listening to the audio at the same time but the narrator, Ms. Monotone put me off so I gave up on her and relied on my own inner voice as I read the rest of the book by myself. The first half was pretty interesting but at 51% I'd guessed the main murderer and the motive. After that, the book was no longer as interesting as I waited to be proved right or wrong. The violent attempts on Harper's life kept me reading but if it hadn't been for those the rest might've I started off reading the book and listening to the audio at the same time but the narrator, Ms. Monotone put me off so I gave up on her and relied on my own inner voice as I read the rest of the book by myself. The first half was pretty interesting but at 51% I'd guessed the main murderer and the motive. After that, the book was no longer as interesting as I waited to be proved right or wrong. The violent attempts on Harper's life kept me reading but if it hadn't been for those the rest might've dragged. In the end, I was disappointed to be proved right in my guess. However, Harper's background with her difficult childhood and family situation together with her intelligent observations and reactions to how others treat her as well as her determination to not be damaged by them, are the reason why I'm awarding this 3 stars instead of 2. Her relationship with her brother is an odd one and is explained by Tolliver's observation: \"You need to stop reading mysteries for a while. Or get a new sidekick.\" \"Sidekick?\" \"Yeah, if you're the brilliant sleuth, I must be the slightly denser but brilliant-in-my-own-way sidekick, right?\" \"Yes, Watson.\" \"More like Sharona.\" \"That'd make me Monk?\" \"If the shoe fits.\" Monk is a TV show in which Sharona is Monk's nurse, handler and personal assistant all rolled into one. Harper was hurt by Tolliver's evaluation of his role in her life because it was a little too close to the truth but just because she was extremely vulnerable without him she managed to survive when she was physically attacked. She fought back with gusto and refused to back down to a pack of teenage bullies surrounding her. I admired Harper for this. She could easily play the role of a typical victim, persecuted for her natural talent for detecting the dead, their names and cause of death after being struck by lightning. Tolliver, on the other hand, I couldn't get a complete grasp on him. I wasn't enamoured with him at all despite his obvious caring and protectiveness towards his step-sister. They live difficult lives on the road and I sympathised with their way of life, their erratic and depressing sex lives and just a general lack of genuine friends and family whom they can turn to in a crisis. Overall, the mystery wasn't quite as mysterious as it first appeared but the characterisation and observations of the leading lady made up for this. In comparison to Harris' other paranormal series, Sookie Stackhouse, this has a much more serious tone and a darker outlook on the realities of life. I have the next two in the series so I will continue reading. ...more (Source: I own a copy of this book.) 23-year-old Harper Connelly can sense dead bodies, and can even see how they died, since she was struck by lightning at the age of 15. Choosing to use her special talent to both help people, and earn a living, Harper and her step-brother Tolliver drive around the country finding dead bodies. Their latest case \u2013 Sarne, where a teenage girl is missing, presumed dead. Can Harper locate the missing girl? How did she die? Did her boyfriend really commit suicide? And (Source: I own a copy of this book.) 23-year-old Harper Connelly can sense dead bodies, and can even see how they died, since she was struck by lightning at the age of 15. Choosing to use her special talent to both help people, and earn a living, Harper and her step-brother Tolliver drive around the country finding dead bodies. Their latest case \u2013 Sarne, where a teenage girl is missing, presumed dead. Can Harper locate the missing girl? How did she die? Did her boyfriend really commit suicide? And who is out to get Harper? Even though this is the second time I have read this book, I still really enjoyed it, and I liked how the mystery was kept up right the way \u2018til the end of the book. Harper was an interesting character. At times she was very firm, and stuck up for what she felt was right, but at other times she came across as very fragile, and the sort of person who needed protecting. I felt quite sorry for her and the way she was victimised at times, and it was unfair that people weren\u2019t more appreciative of her special talent. The storyline in this was pretty good, and the mystery was also a good one. It was difficult to work out the pattern to the many clues, although because this was a re-read I did remember part-way through what was going on. I liked the mystery and suspense though, and thought it was done really well, and the many different parts of the plotline were quite difficult to piece together. I liked the ending and thought that it was well done. There were a couple of things that weren\u2019t tied up at the end, but I\u2019m planning on reading the rest of the series now to find out those answers! Overall; a good suspense/mystery. 7.5 out of 10. ...more 4 stars This is a well written low key paranormal mystery - by which I mean the supernatural element is minimal. Harper travels around with her step-brother finding dead bodies using a sixth sense she gained through being struck by lightning as a teenager. There's fairly complex and semi-tragic background family connections for Harper Connelly and Tolliver Lang, including shared siblings and a missing sister. If you're coming to this expecting a Sookie style universe then prepare to be disappoint 4 stars This is a well written low key paranormal mystery - by which I mean the supernatural element is minimal. Harper travels around with her step-brother finding dead bodies using a sixth sense she gained through being struck by lightning as a teenager. There's fairly complex and semi-tragic background family connections for Harper Connelly and Tolliver Lang, including shared siblings and a missing sister. If you're coming to this expecting a Sookie style universe then prepare to be disappointed, as Harper's only paranormality is her tenuous affinity for corpses and a glimpse into their cause of death. (Convenient that she doesn't see the murderer as it would be an incredibly short book otherwise!) . As a murder mystery it's great - numerous clues, red herrings, hidden secrets, I enjoyed it considerably. As a paranormal urban fantasy whatever it was on the light side - more reminiscent of Jayne Ann Krentz 's earlier occult hinted romances than a full on fantasy. The sibling relationship was weird (view spoiler) [ but made more sense for later books (hide spoiler) ] as they were far more comfortable with each other's sexual relations than I and my brothers would ever be. Not their were any particularly overt sex scenes. That too left me a little confused - just how long was Hollis actually widowed for? It seemed to be rather vague - his wife definitely died before the two teenagers Harper was in Sarne about and I assumed it was about the time of Mr Teague's death two years ago. However it often was made to feel like it was a very recent occurrence as well. Overall though this was a very good book, a little on the bleaker atmospheric side yet consistently page-turning. ...more", "Title": "Grave Sight"},
