{"Comments": "<+++>Medicus</+++> is what I call a 'popcorn' book: a book to pick up and settle in with for an evening's cozy reading. Entertainment value: 5 stars, but several months from now I'll have a hard time remembering much beyond the main characters: Gaius Petrius Ruso, a physician stationed in Brittania with the Roman army,<---M> and Tilla</---M>, the slave girl he reluctantly purchases from an abusive master. Ruso, long suffering, wry, and a humanist doomed to be forever caught up in other people's suffering despite his at <+++>Medicus</+++> is what I call a 'popcorn' book: a book to pick up and settle in with for an evening's cozy reading. Entertainment value: 5 stars, but several months from now I'll have a hard time remembering much beyond the main characters: Gaius Petrius Ruso, a physician stationed in Brittania with the Roman army, and Tilla, the slave girl he reluctantly purchases from an abusive master. Ruso, long suffering, wry, and a humanist doomed to be forever caught up in other people's suffering despite his attempts at pragmatism, is the main entertainment here. Downie does a decent job at bringing her world to life, but the plot and various plot threads are fairly predictable. Inevitably, I've also got to compare Medicus to Lindsay Davis's very fun and entertaining Falco series, also a detective series set in ancient Rome. I do feel that Downie has a better feel for writing from the male perspective, but Davis's Rome is more finely wrought, her plots better developed. Both series have a nice element of humor, although readers who prefer to smile rather than laugh out loud with their mysteries might be more comfortable with Downie's more character-driven style. ...more Reading Medicus I\u2019m put in mind of Colin Cotterill 's Siri Paiboun series. In both two men more devoted to their jobs than anything else find themselves reluctantly involved in murder investigations. In both we have a comedic more than tragic writing style that still manages to inject notes of seriousness along the way \u2013 in Medicus , it\u2019s a reflection on slavery and sex trafficking. Medicus is not a \u201cheavy\u201d read, however. It\u2019s a very nicely written, moderately complex murder mystery set in the Roma Reading Medicus I\u2019m put in mind of Colin Cotterill 's Siri Paiboun series. In both two men more devoted to their jobs than anything else find themselves reluctantly involved in murder investigations. In both we have a comedic more than tragic writing style that still manages to inject notes of seriousness along the way \u2013 in Medicus , it\u2019s a reflection on slavery and sex trafficking. Medicus is not a \u201cheavy\u201d read, however. It\u2019s a very nicely written, moderately complex murder mystery set in the Romano-British town of Deva (<---B>modern day Chester</---B>) at the beginning of Hadrian\u2019s reign (AD 117). Our put-upon protagonist is Gaius Petreius Ruso, a doctor in the XX Legion, whose marriage has failed (because he was too devoted to his craft and not devoted enough to advancing his career), whose family is drowning in debt and in danger of losing their Gaulish farm, and whose first \u201cmistake\u201d is rescuing a British slave girl from her slimy owner. The mystery isn\u2019t all that complex or hard to figure out. I enjoyed reading the book because I enjoyed following Ruso as he stumbles along, inadvertently uncovering the clues (view spoiler) [that lead him to a corrupt and murderous Roman official and the illegal transport of slaves and kidnapped citizens (hide spoiler) ] . Our hero is by no means stupid, he\u2019s a rather good doctor, in fact, but he is often blind to his environment, awkward socially and politically inept*. Ruso is a man I can identify with and Downie\u2019s writing is engaging and \u201cuser friendly\u201d if you\u2019re looking for a diverting, not-too-serious reading experience. I\u2019d enjoy seeing PBS or BBC adapt this into a series like Brother Cadfael ; it practically cries out for it. I\u2019m going to head down to the library this weekend and get some more entries in this series \u2013 I\u2019ve been reading too many depressing things lately. * Downie makes Ruso the \u201cmysterious stranger\u201d who rescued the Emperor Trajan from a collapsing building during an earthquake in Antioch but \u2013 much to his wife\u2019s disgust \u2013 Ruso never parlays it into anything advantageous. ...more Five stars, five, and again five! Hurray for Medicus : it's the page-turner I've been looking for for a long time. I read it in an entire day because I couldn't put it down. Set in Roman Empire-era Brittania, this is the story of reluctant hero , Gaius Petrius Ruso, a doctor in the local army hospital, who turns detective very much against his will.<---F> Humorous, lighthearted, colorful</---F>... This is Downie's first novel, and I hope she's planning a whole series of Ruso mysteries! ...The back cover made it sound so interesting and original - like a historical fiction mystery with men in short tunics with great senses of humor. It's really about a lonely, rather boring medicus (doctor) for the Roman Empire stationed overseas who stumbles upon a whorehouse, a couple of missing girls, and some bad oysters. Of course in the mix there is a beautiful, resilient, implausible slave girl - who was possibly once royalty or a healer or ???. Did I mention the doctor is in debt trying ...The back cover made it sound so interesting and original - like a historical fiction mystery with men in short tunics with great senses of humor. It's really about a lonely, rather boring medicus (doctor) for the Roman Empire stationed overseas who stumbles upon a whorehouse, a couple of missing girls, and some bad oysters. Of course in the mix there is a beautiful, resilient, implausible slave girl - who was possibly once royalty or a healer or ???. Did I mention the doctor is in debt trying to save the family farm which conveniently lends itself to extortion? The first 100 pages had me nearly comatose as our characters were painfully developed. Then the plot kicked in and had me guessing for a few minutes, until the introduction of a newish character who, to me,was clearly killer. I spent the last 50 pages waiting for the happy ending because well, everything else ended up neatly so why not the doc and the slave girl? In the end it was tolerable but not something I'd recommend. ...more The mysteries in this series are all set in the time of Trajan/Hadrian, in Roman Britain (Britannia). I loved the characters of Ruso, the overworked, compassionate Roman military doctor and Tilla, his British housekeeper. Some of the dry humor is laugh-out-loud; this book is a fast read, but bears rereading to wallow in the characters' interplay. I loved Ruso's interior thoughts. The mystery was a perhaps secondary, but necessary plot device. Ruso's personality seems to me like a cross between t The mysteries in this series are all set in the time of Trajan/Hadrian, in Roman Britain (Britannia). I loved the characters of Ruso, the overworked, compassionate Roman military doctor and Tilla, his British housekeeper. Some of the dry humor is laugh-out-loud; this book is a fast read, but bears rereading to wallow in the characters' interplay. I loved Ruso's interior thoughts. The mystery was a perhaps secondary, but necessary plot device. Ruso's personality seems to me like a cross between the personalities of Arthur Dent and Eeyore, if such a thing is possible. Valens, Ruso's devious (but basically good-hearted) doctor roommate and friend reminds me so much of M*A*S*H's Hawkeye Pierce. The beer barrel in the kitchen -- from one of Valens's grateful British patients perhaps? -- brought to mind the liquor still in the 'Swamp', Hawkeye's tent quarters. I've read and own the other 4 books in the series and am eagerly awaiting #5. In January 2013 I received #5 in the series, Semper Fidelis; it's just as delightful as the previous 4. Semper Fidelis In August 2014 I received and read #6, Tabula Rasa . This is one of Downie's best yet [except for the ghastly cover!] The contents inside were what interested me, though. ...more I loved this book! Our hero, Medicus, a doctor in ancient Roman-occupied Britain, is a fascinating and totally lovable guy. The book jacket compares him to young Harrison Ford, and I think that's perfect--surly, oblivious to his own charm, professional, and totally adorable underneath a mildly prickly exterior. The writing somehow makes it easy to imagine living in Deva, Brittania (an area in a period I know nothing about) and all the characters are well-written and very engaging. I am really lo I loved this book! Our hero, Medicus, a doctor in ancient Roman-occupied Britain, is a fascinating and totally lovable guy. The book jacket compares him to young Harrison Ford, and I think that's perfect--surly, oblivious to his own charm, professional, and totally adorable underneath a mildly prickly exterior. The writing somehow makes it easy to imagine living in Deva, Brittania (an area in a period I know nothing about) and all the characters are well-written and very engaging. I am really looking forward to the sequel, Terra Incognita , and any further adventures of Gaius Petreius Ruso. ...more What's a doc to do? Father has died leaving debts. Brother has a very fertile wife. Stepmother is a bit of a over shopper. The less said about the ex-wife the better. And now, here he is at the end of the world. Okay, Roman Britian. But they dress werid. Oh, and dead girls seem to like him. Is this the best mystery I've ever read? No. But it's not the worst either. There are some wonderful touches of humor and the world feels real. It's a nice diverting read. A while back, I tried to get into the much-acclaimed Marcus Didius Falco series, and just couldn't. So, when I saw this book on sale as an Audible Daily Deal, I thought for a couple of bucks, why not? Turned out a wise move. I bonded with \"Medicus\" (Doctor) Gaius Ruso as a character right away, nice guy in the wrong place at the wrong time. Downie does an excellent job of showing that everything old is new again, at one point having Ruso go through the frustration of getting the hospital administ A while back, I tried to get into the much-acclaimed Marcus Didius Falco series, and just couldn't. So, when I saw this book on sale as an Audible Daily Deal, I thought for a couple of bucks, why not? Turned out a wise move. I bonded with \"Medicus\" (Doctor) Gaius Ruso as a character right away, nice guy in the wrong place at the wrong time. Downie does an excellent job of showing that everything old is new again, at one point having Ruso go through the frustration of getting the hospital administrator to approve payment for a patient's eye operation by a London specialist. The mystery angle pretty much stayed in the background until the end of the book, with the focus on life in Roman Britain. Though it was a long book, things never felt bogged down; the comedic aspect were never over-the-top either. Simon Vance's narration was a perfect fit for the material - can't wait to listen to the sequel! ...more Looking forward to the next in the series! Medicus and the Disappearing Dancing Girls is the first of a series of novels that follows the misfortunes of a Roman Army Medical Officer, Gaius Petreius Ruso, after his posting from the warm climes of North Africa to the dreary grey drizzle of Deva (pron. Dewa); that's modern day Chester. Ruso is down on his luck and doesn't own much more than a few mounting debts. As well as trying to support his own life in the British garrison town, he is obliged to Looking forward to the next in the series! Medicus and the Disappearing Dancing Girls is the first of a series of novels that follows the misfortunes of a Roman Army Medical Officer, Gaius Petreius Ruso, after his posting from the warm climes of North Africa to the dreary grey drizzle of Deva (pron. Dewa); that's modern day Chester. Ruso is down on his luck and doesn't own much more than a few mounting debts. As well as trying to support his own life in the British garrison town, he is obliged to send funds home to his brother in southern Gaul lest his family find themselves destitute and homeless. His medical colleague at the garrison hospital, who shares his squalid house with Ruso, takes life as it comes and has a wicked sense of humour, and is no help at all. Consequently, Ruso has very little support from anyone as he tries to traverse his difficult life. Almost by accident he finds himself burdened with further unmanageable debts, becomes the reluctant owner of an injured slave, Tilla, and is in continual conflict with the hospital administrator and many of the local Britons. There are many reflections of twenty-first century society in this book, ranging from the financial and administrative pressures on the health service to the very serious issue of the white slave trade. I am sure that these parallels are deliberately drawn by the author to provoke the reader into thoughts beyond the main storyline. Ruso becomes an unwilling detective, trying to track down the truth behind the disappearance of several dancing girls from the local brothel and bar. The story moves at a leisurely pace and, in the main, insinuates the brutality of the age rather than going into explicit detail. I have always been a big fan of historical novels as, with conversations and images, they bring history to life around those dry, boring dates and names that I had to learn in the school classroom. Medicus does this for me and, at the same time, introduces some interesting characters whom I very much look forward to meeting again as the series unfolds. I strongly suspect that Ruso's slave, Tilla, will become his driving force. This is an excellent detective story, and the links between Roman Britain and Modern Britain are particularly pleasing. I would recommend Medicus to anyone who enjoys a good historical fiction. ...more A nice historical mystery set in Roman Britain. It has a lighthearted, anachronistic tone similar to that of Lindsey Davis's Falco books - it even begins with an amusing dramatis personae. There isn't a comparable wealth of historical detail, but I liked the protagonist, a gruff army doctor who is not eager to play the role of detective. The book is well written, and I very much enjoyed the setting. The mystery plot was okay, while the romance didn't really work for me. Still, this was a quick an A nice historical mystery set in Roman Britain. It has a lighthearted, anachronistic tone similar to that of Lindsey Davis's Falco books - it even begins with an amusing dramatis personae. There isn't a comparable wealth of historical detail, but I liked the protagonist, a gruff army doctor who is not eager to play the role of detective. The book is well written, and I very much enjoyed the setting. The mystery plot was okay, while the romance didn't really work for me. Still, this was a quick and entertaining read and I look forward to the next book. ETA Sept. 2014: The romance that didn't work for me here has evolved into an interesting relationship in subsequent books. ...more This was different from the usual crap that I read. The lesson seems to be that if you are a doctor living in the ancient Roman Empire and some hot little slave girl shows up, you should probably keep her. She can make you breakfast and all sorts of neat stuff. I enjoyed this one. A fun fast read: I like a good mystery now and then, and of course it doesn't hurt if the book in question happens to be set in Ancient Roman times. Roman Britain, in fact, during the relatively pleasant and peaceful reign of Hadrian. But enough history: The main attraction here is Gaius Petreius Ruso, divorc\u00e9e, army medical doctor ( medicus , medical... I think I get it!) and reluctant protagonist of this here tale. He is such a stick in the mud! A nice guy at heart but, trouble is, everything see A fun fast read: I like a good mystery now and then, and of course it doesn't hurt if the book in question happens to be set in Ancient Roman times. Roman Britain, in fact, during the relatively pleasant and peaceful reign of Hadrian. But enough history: The main attraction here is Gaius Petreius Ruso, divorc\u00e9e, army medical doctor ( medicus , medical... I think I get it!) and reluctant protagonist of this here tale. He is such a stick in the mud! A nice guy at heart but, trouble is, everything seems to be going wrong... his wife left him a few years ago but he still hasn't gotten over it, he's overworked and still lives in squalor... he lives in Britain... and worst of all, he somehow manages to get himself wrapped up in the murders of two prostitutes from a nearby brothel. Ruso is the classic put-upon patriarch, an old and well-worn character trope which has been a staple of comedies at least as far back as the Romans themselves, and which found success long into the twentieth century (I can name three perfect examples: George Banks from Mary Poppins , Mr. Alonzo Smith from Meet Me in St. Louis , and \"father\" from E.L. Doctorow's 20s-set historical novel Ragtime ). Secure in his faith of his de jure position of authority as a man -- over women, children, slaves, and anything else that moves -- the impotent patriarch is at the same time quite shocked when his de facto influence falls way, way short of his expectations, usually to comic effect. The modern approach of this kind of character is ambivalence at best: glad to see a few cracks in the patriarchal stranglehold, yet full of sad feelings regarding the mere existence, past and present, of that stranglehold. For my part, I say it's good to be back in the days when men were men, slaves were slaves, and cataract surgery was scary as all get out. Ruso's the main attraction, of course, but a decent supporting cast surrounds him. There's Tilla, the dying native girl Ruso reluctantly buys off some random guy dragging her home -- a real fixer upper. She turns out to be a looker, though, so I guess that counterbalances the whole \"sorry I got you wrapped in a ridiculous mystery\" thing. Then there's Valens, the handsome, funny, socially at ease fellow doctor and roommate. And Priscus, the balding, bureaucratic administrator of the hospital -- who can really handle himself with a kitchen knife. There are others of course, but they're all women and/or slaves, so you can understand my silence. This book, it is Roman enough for my tastes -- and modern enough too. \"This book could be set at any time period, any place.\" Well yeah, granted, jokes about British cuisine never go out of style, but surely the Romans have a character all their own! Surely... lead water pipes, slaves, and a life expectancy of thirty-five -- isn't that enough? <---A>Ruth Downie</---A>, she does a pretty good job. Yeah, yeah, she's not Robert Graves, but then she's not Robert Fagles either (impressed yet? okay, how about Robert Redford? Robbie Williams? Robin Williams? Okay, I better stop...) Like I said, the book is Roman enough -- enough to get me in the mood without tugging and tearing at my poor little overworked brain cells. This delicate balance saw me through to the end of the book, allowing me to overlook the slow start, the just average writing style, and the really rather average mystery tale itself; to shrug my shoulders and go along for the ride. My little local library, for some reason, has every book in this series so maybe I'll go back for a double or even triple dip. *shrug* \"When in Deva...\" as they say. ...more Gaius Petreius Ruso has recently arrived in a cold and rainy Britannia. He is recently divorced and has suffered bad news about the death of his father, which has left him with a great deal of debt and an extended family to support. However, despite his new good intentions to obtain promotion and, hopefully, some wealthy paying patients, things do not seem to be starting well. Although he has pledged to live frugally, he somehow ends up buying a young slave girl, whose arm is badly injured and w Gaius Petreius Ruso has recently arrived in a cold and rainy Britannia. He is recently divorced and has suffered bad news about the death of his father, which has left him with a great deal of debt and an extended family to support. However, despite his new good intentions to obtain promotion and, hopefully, some wealthy paying patients, things do not seem to be starting well. Although he has pledged to live frugally, he somehow ends up buying a young slave girl, whose arm is badly injured and who is being brutally mistreated. As he is staying with his friend, and fellow doctor, Valens, this leaves him with a problem of where she can sleep and, eventually, he opts for the rather dubious location of Merula\u2019s \u2013 a bar which seems to have rather carelessly lost two of its dancing girls, one of whom was recently hauled out of the river. To add to his problems, Ruso ends up making an enemy of the rather pedantic hospital administrator Optio Priscus and be rumoured to be investigating the death of Saufeia, even though he doesn\u2019t really want to be involved. This is the first mystery in the series and there is a lot of introducing the characters and setting. Ruso is a likeable enough lead character, who tries his best to make things right. It is fair to say that the authorities are not particularly eager, or worried, about the death of two dancing girls \u2013 but Ruso feels there is more to the mystery than he first realised. Why did one of the dancing girls run off, when she was supposedly in love with a soldier at the garrison? Why was another, surprisingly able to read and write, suggesting that she would not be there long before going missing and what is making certain customers at Merula\u2019s ill? Ruso attempts to discover the truth, even without really wanting to, while trying to care for the unwilling new acquisition to his household, the beautiful young Tilla, stave off debt and try to get some sleep in between tending to patients. Overall, this was an interesting mystery, although too much of the book seemed to be about introducing the characters and the storyline was a little slow to get going. Now that the characters of Ruso and Tilla are established, I wonder whether the second novel in the series will be faster paced. I would certainly give the second book a try, as this was a light and enjoyable read. Rated 3.5 ...more This. Yes. I\u2019m generally a sucker for anything related to ancient Rome, and this series is a treat. It\u2019s slow-moving, but in a leisurely way, almost like playing an RPG: we wander along the streets of small towns and military camps in Roman-occupied Brittania, bumping into all sorts of strange fellows. It\u2019s at time hilarious, at times sweet, sometimes a little suspenseful. I love Ruso\u2019s awkwardness, occasional bouts of typically Roman machismo and his humanity. I know some readers aren\u2019t big fan This. Yes. I\u2019m generally a sucker for anything related to ancient Rome, and this series is a treat. It\u2019s slow-moving, but in a leisurely way, almost like playing an RPG: we wander along the streets of small towns and military camps in Roman-occupied Brittania, bumping into all sorts of strange fellows. It\u2019s at time hilarious, at times sweet, sometimes a little suspenseful. I love Ruso\u2019s awkwardness, occasional bouts of typically Roman machismo and his humanity. I know some readers aren\u2019t big fans of Tilla, but I think I see what Ruth Downie is doing with her, and her character makes in fact a lot of sense, even if her decisions may not fit the traditional, modern set of values we rely on to assess characters. My only qualm would be that Medicus disappoint a little in tension-filled scenes: those can be confuse and lack any urgency (this is very visible at the end of book #1, where you see the plot come together, but there\u2019s no real sense of urgency, even as characters are dying and we\u2019re in the middle of a messy, emotionally intense conclusion. Note: I tested book #1 on Audible as well. I\u2019m not a fan of the narration, it\u2019s a bit too stilted, and they really should have hired a female voice to dub Tilla and the other women in the book: their lines are a bit cringe-worthy in spite of the narrator\u2019s commendable efforts. ...more Upon examining a drowned corpse, military Medicus (doctor), Gaius Petrius Ruso, finds himself reluctantly investigating the deaths of young women who are employed at the local bordello. On his way home from the crime scene, he ends up rescuing and ultimately purchasing Tilla, an injured slave from her abusive master. As his finances quickly become depleted, and the tyrannical administrator returns to rule the hospital with an iron fist, Ruso must uncover the shady dealings that have been going o Upon examining a drowned corpse, military Medicus (doctor), Gaius Petrius Ruso, finds himself reluctantly investigating the deaths of young women who are employed at the local bordello. On his way home from the crime scene, he ends up rescuing and ultimately purchasing Tilla, an injured slave from her abusive master. As his finances quickly become depleted, and the tyrannical administrator returns to rule the hospital with an iron fist, Ruso must uncover the shady dealings that have been going on in an attempt to simplify his overly complicated life. Despite the seriousness of the underlying themes (prostitution, the human slave trade), Downie\u2019s debut novel can be considered a cozy (a mystery without graphic violence and sex that involves an amateur detective). She addresses these difficult topics with humor and wittiness without glossing over the real issues. The best word to describe Medicus is amusing\u2026not good, not great, but very amusing. This is the sole quality that kept me somewhat engaged until the climax of the story. The protagonist finds himself in these droll and unpredictable circumstances and the reader becomes privy to his inner thoughts on the matter. The supporting characters are all quite the personalities, and after a very slow start, this book did redeem itself in a big way. ...more It took me a while to get the humor in this book but once I did, I started to enjoy it. Gaius Petreius Ruso is a broke, divorced doctor serving the 20th legion, just arrived to the wilds of Britannia. He's extremely grumpy, always grumbling about not wanting to get involved in anybody's business, but at the end, he always does the right thing. And that's how I realized what a good and kind man he was. No matter what he said or thought, he would always go out of his way to help others, even when It took me a while to get the humor in this book but once I did, I started to enjoy it. Gaius Petreius Ruso is a broke, divorced doctor serving the 20th legion, just arrived to the wilds of Britannia. He's extremely grumpy, always grumbling about not wanting to get involved in anybody's business, but at the end, he always does the right thing. And that's how I realized what a good and kind man he was. No matter what he said or thought, he would always go out of his way to help others, even when it wasn't comfortable for him. The mystery of the murdered girls was almost a backdrop for Ruso's life at the hospital and his relationship with his recently acquired slave girl. Although he tried not to care, you can see in his behavior how much he really does. There is a lot of modern terminology in this book but it serves the humor in this book, which is a lot about what you would think of as modern problems in an ancient setting. When I got it, I chuckled quite a bit. The narration by Simon Vance was outstanding of course. I'm not sure if I would have enjoyed it as much reading it in print. The way the book ended made me want to pick up the next one up right away. I really want to see how things progress with Ruso and Tilla. ...more I read along with a group on the knitting site Ravelry. I found the book an unexpected enjoyable read. More so the slowly developing story about the main character (Ruso) and his slave, Tilla - than the \"mystery\" which was not compelling alone to hold my attention. But I like grumpy Ruso and will eventually read more in the series. It was my first book set in Roman ruled Britton. The dialog seemed surprisingly modern, so that was a bit jarring. I kept picturing modern structures and buildings, b I read along with a group on the knitting site Ravelry. I found the book an unexpected enjoyable read. More so the slowly developing story about the main character (Ruso) and his slave, Tilla - than the \"mystery\" which was not compelling alone to hold my attention. But I like grumpy Ruso and will eventually read more in the series. It was my first book set in Roman ruled Britton. The dialog seemed surprisingly modern, so that was a bit jarring. I kept picturing modern structures and buildings, because of the description - but then would realize the setting was during the Roman empire. Maybe it was all accurate, but if so there was a lot of modern infrastructure that didn't seem to be around in England several hundred years later during the Tudor and Elizabethan eras, which I've read more about. ...more My sister has put me onto this series, and I will be reading them all. I have no idea if the actual mysteries are good --- the one at the heart of the first book isn't --- but the setting is genius and the characters are well-drawn. It would make a wonderful series for PBS Mystery, and that is high praise from me. Downie has created the world of early second century Britain. The central characters are Romans stationed at the outpost of Deva, chiefly a doctor named Ruso and his slave, Tilla. It h My sister has put me onto this series, and I will be reading them all. I have no idea if the actual mysteries are good --- the one at the heart of the first book isn't --- but the setting is genius and the characters are well-drawn. It would make a wonderful series for PBS Mystery, and that is high praise from me. Downie has created the world of early second century Britain. The central characters are Romans stationed at the outpost of Deva, chiefly a doctor named Ruso and his slave, Tilla. It has been a long dry spell since I have read an historical novel that made me feel as though I were actually in a different time and place, but Downie pulls it off so well that I didn't even care that the \"mystery\" didn't make a whole lot of sense. I wanted to know what happened to Ruso, Tilla, Chloe, Valens --- honestly, this was a good read. ...more Curmudgeon & army doctor Gaius Ruso has just been stationed in Brittania, the back of beyond & far from civilization. His living quarters are filthy, his finances poor, the hospital administrator a petty tyrant, and his finances are stretched further when he rescues an injured young woman slave from an abusive owner. When young women from the local bar aka whorehouse start turning up murdered, he is reluctantly drawn by the locals into investigating it. In the meantime he grows attached Curmudgeon & army doctor Gaius Ruso has just been stationed in Brittania, the back of beyond & far from civilization. His living quarters are filthy, his finances poor, the hospital administrator a petty tyrant, and his finances are stretched further when he rescues an injured young woman slave from an abusive owner. When young women from the local bar aka whorehouse start turning up murdered, he is reluctantly drawn by the locals into investigating it. In the meantime he grows attached to the intelligent & defiant slave woman, and she too becomes entangled in the mystery. ...more Historical mystery set in Britain during the Roman occupation. Gaius Petreius Ruso is a \"medicus\" for the 20th regiment, stationed in Deva (now Chester, England). Upon his arrival, he has to deal with the body of a young woman found floating in the river, and then manages to become the accidental owner of a young female slave who he rescues from a disreputable slave trader. This was interesting and I enjoyed getting to know Ruso and his slave girl, Tilla. I will definitely look for the next in th Historical mystery set in Britain during the Roman occupation. Gaius Petreius Ruso is a \"medicus\" for the 20th regiment, stationed in Deva (now Chester, England). Upon his arrival, he has to deal with the body of a young woman found floating in the river, and then manages to become the accidental owner of a young female slave who he rescues from a disreputable slave trader. This was interesting and I enjoyed getting to know Ruso and his slave girl, Tilla. I will definitely look for the next in the series. ...more I didn't enjoy this book as much as I wanted to. I don't know why I was expecting a more sophisticated \"who-done-it\" but I was. Anyway things I liked about the story, I liked the fact there was always something happening. It didn't drone on and on about minute details that had no value to the story. I rather liked the ending. It's one of those feel goods that supports the whole, \"If you love something set it free...\" mindsets. What I didn't like... Even as busy as it was I was sometimes bored. I I didn't enjoy this book as much as I wanted to. I don't know why I was expecting a more sophisticated \"who-done-it\" but I was. Anyway things I liked about the story, I liked the fact there was always something happening. It didn't drone on and on about minute details that had no value to the story. I rather liked the ending. It's one of those feel goods that supports the whole, \"If you love something set it free...\" mindsets. What I didn't like... Even as busy as it was I was sometimes bored. In fact I considered a few times just skipping to the end to see how things turned out and moving on. I am a firm believer that life is to short to be wasted on books you aren't enjoying when there are so very many good ones out there. In the end, I was glad I didn't. The last 75 pages were worth hanging in there. Would I recommend this book? I don't know, this would be good keep your mind busy on a plane or waiting for a doctors appointment material. It's not something I would recommend to anyone who is researching a realistic glimpse of the Roman Empire, or doings. It certainly isn't a fair or accurate portrayal of the Britannic people of the time, as the author notes there are few if any records written by the people of that time and place who were not of the Roman Empire. It would be impossible to guess how they really thought, felt, or survived. So that's what I can tell you about this book without offering up spoilers. Enjoy. ...more #1 in the Gaius Petreius Ruso historical mystery series set in Roman-occupied Britannia. Ruso, a recently-divorced doctor who has moved from his family home in Gaul to an army outpost in Deva (modern-day Chester, UK) and stumbles immediately into a mystery, with the dead, naked body of a young woman brought into his surgery. Most of her red hair has been lopped off, and he's curious not only about her, but about her killer. When he discovers that she was a \"dancing girl\" from one of the local ba #1 in the Gaius Petreius Ruso historical mystery series set in Roman-occupied Britannia. Ruso, a recently-divorced doctor who has moved from his family home in Gaul to an army outpost in Deva (modern-day Chester, UK) and stumbles immediately into a mystery, with the dead, naked body of a young woman brought into his surgery. Most of her red hair has been lopped off, and he's curious not only about her, but about her killer. When he discovers that she was a \"dancing girl\" from one of the local bars and that another woman who worked there has disappeared, and no one is investigating, he takes an unofficial but widely-known interest and begins nosing around. All this while attempting to deal with long hours in his duties as a doctor/surgeon, a slave girl he purchased who has a bit of an attitude problem and is unable to do anything because of injuries that need healing, a roommate (in a rather run-down, filthy home) who is vying with him for the position of Chief Medical Officer--a job Ruso badly needs so he can send his family money and avoid their farm going under, and a host of other little problems. Poor Ruso! He's made the mistake of being someone who cares and seems to get slapped down for it time and again in a series of unfortunate events. The story is written in an engaging style with plenty of wry humor and well-developed characters. The only regret I have is that this book sat on my TBR stacks for way too long--but I am glad to have the next two waiting for me. Excellent! A+ ...more Medicus 3.5 Stars Gaius Petrius Ruso, a medicus (doctor) with the 20th Roman Legion stationed in Britannia, finds himself investigating the deaths of two prostitutes working out of a local bar. While the book is heavy on establishing the setting and developing the characters, it is light on the plot and investigation of the crimes. Much of the story involves the day to day activities of the main character as he treats patients at the legion hospital, and becomes involved in the lives of the people Medicus 3.5 Stars Gaius Petrius Ruso, a medicus (doctor) with the 20th Roman Legion stationed in Britannia, finds himself investigating the deaths of two prostitutes working out of a local bar. While the book is heavy on establishing the setting and developing the characters, it is light on the plot and investigation of the crimes. Much of the story involves the day to day activities of the main character as he treats patients at the legion hospital, and becomes involved in the lives of the people of Deva (modern day Chester) due to his inadvertent rescue of a slave girl, Tilla. Although the information on the Roman occupation of Britain is well-researched and interesting, and the characters are fully fleshed out and appealing, it is exactly this development and attention to detail that slows the pacing of the mystery. Ruso's reluctant involvement in the murder is merely a secondary consequence of his relationship with Tilla, and he more or less stumbles across the culprit without any real investigation. Nevertheless, the resolution is satisfying as everyone gets their just desserts. All in all, a good premise, solid writing and a likable protagonist make this a decent read. I will probably continue with the series if and when I need a book set in the Roman Empire for a challenge. ...more \u201cMedicus\u201d is both historical fiction and a mystery, but it\u2019s anomalous for both genres \u2013 purists, beware. Although the story takes place in the time of the Roman empire, except for occasional references to slaves, scrolls, and centurions it reads like a contemporary novel, something I appreciated but avid historical fiction fans may not. And while there\u2019s technically a mystery here, the plotting is rather slow; we mostly watch our Harrison Ford-esque hero deal with all sorts of unfortunate (and \u201cMedicus\u201d is both historical fiction and a mystery, but it\u2019s anomalous for both genres \u2013 purists, beware. Although the story takes place in the time of the Roman empire, except for occasional references to slaves, scrolls, and centurions it reads like a contemporary novel, something I appreciated but avid historical fiction fans may not. And while there\u2019s technically a mystery here, the plotting is rather slow; we mostly watch our Harrison Ford-esque hero deal with all sorts of unfortunate (and often dryly comical) mishaps in his life rather than hot on the trail of more clues. The dead body shows up immediately, but the clues come slowly and sporadically and don\u2019t drive the story. That said, \u201cMedicus\u201d has a charm of its own. Although I wouldn\u2019t go so far as to say that I couldn\u2019t put it down, it was easy enough to pick up and read quickly and enjoyably. I couldn\u2019t always follow every plot development, but I don\u2019t know how much of that to blame on the book; preparations for Passover are wreaking havoc with my powers of concentration right now. Ultimately, I agree with the reviewer who called this \u201ca beach read for historical fiction fans\u201d and recommend it for anyone seeking a light and entertaining read that\u2019s a little different. ...more I really enjoyed this introduction to Gaius Petreius Ruso, his new slave Tilla, and all of his other woes. Ruso is an army medicus in Brittania, which is under Roman rule, and I liked that this put me in mind of a sort of ancient Roman M*A*S*H. The details of daily living are interesting, and the characters are great. I like Tilla, but I think Albanus, who is Ruso's scribe, is my favorite. Everybody should have an Albanus. The mystery plot itself was a little off in its pacing, but I was having t I really enjoyed this introduction to Gaius Petreius Ruso, his new slave Tilla, and all of his other woes. Ruso is an army medicus in Brittania, which is under Roman rule, and I liked that this put me in mind of a sort of ancient Roman M*A*S*H. The details of daily living are interesting, and the characters are great. I like Tilla, but I think Albanus, who is Ruso's scribe, is my favorite. Everybody should have an Albanus. The mystery plot itself was a little off in its pacing, but I was having too much fun for that to bother me much. I especially liked how Downie presented the culture clashes, often showing the same scene from both Ruso's and Tilla's perspectives to give the reader a fuller understanding of what motivated whom. And I am glad that Downie resisted making Ruso an enlightened progressive. He may be a better class of slave-owner, but he is a still a slave-owner, and he thinks like a slave-owner simply because it would not occur to him that there is any other way to think. So even though Downie had to make lots of educated guesses about life in Roman times, everything feels quite real for its setting, and this makes me want to keep reading. ...more I finished this late last week - it seemed slow to start, but it was a good read. I just had a hard time getting into it, as I'm currently reading a few books. I saw the sequel at the library, and the comments on the back about the first book made me want to give it a try - I'm glad I did. Interesting characters and great dialogue, LOL at times. I realize from the author's afterword that not much is known about Roman Britain, so I feel it's a bit unfair to criticize her historical accuracy as so I finished this late last week - it seemed slow to start, but it was a good read. I just had a hard time getting into it, as I'm currently reading a few books. I saw the sequel at the library, and the comments on the back about the first book made me want to give it a try - I'm glad I did. Interesting characters and great dialogue, LOL at times. I realize from the author's afterword that not much is known about Roman Britain, so I feel it's a bit unfair to criticize her historical accuracy as some reviewers did on Amazon. Having said that, since I know very little about the period myself, I found it very interesting to read about how much the Roman medicus' were able to do for their patients. I definitely saw the Hawkeye/Trapper John-type give-and-take between Ruso and his fellow doctor and housemate Valens. Albanus, Ruso's scribe, reminded me more than a little of Radar! It was a fun read, and once I REALLY got into it, about a third of the way through, I was glad I stuck with it. Ruso is a very appealing hero, and I will definitely give \"Terra Incognita\", the second in the series, a try. ...more I read, intermittently, historical fiction, and I also read, intermittently, mystery books. While some of my very favorite authors cross both genres (Laurie R. King being the premier examples), I am fussy about both, and so tend to be leery of historical mysteries\u2014most fail to work for me, as mysteries or as historical novels. This book is one of those rare examples of an excellent historical novel wrapped around an excellent mystery. It is fairly unconventional as a mystery, as it never actuall I read, intermittently, historical fiction, and I also read, intermittently, mystery books. While some of my very favorite authors cross both genres (Laurie R. King being the premier examples), I am fussy about both, and so tend to be leery of historical mysteries\u2014most fail to work for me, as mysteries or as historical novels. This book is one of those rare examples of an excellent historical novel wrapped around an excellent mystery. It is fairly unconventional as a mystery, as it never actually settles into being a mystery. Gaius Petreius Ruso is a garrison doctor in Roman-occupied Britain, and has no interest whatever in conducting investigations. Mysterious bodies, however, end up coming his way, and he ends up asking the occasional question in spite of himself. While both the plot and the historical setting are convincing, what sets this book apart is the tone\u2014it is wry and witty, without ever straying into anachronism. It ends up reading rather like M*A*S*H as set in Roman Britain, and I enjoyed it thoroughly and can\u2019t wait to read the sequel. ...more Given that this book is about Rome, or at least Romans in Britain, it is a no-brainer that I would want to read it. However, the reason it has passed me by until now is that it is a crime novel. This genre is not my favourite, it has to be said. I ended up buying a copy in June when I had the good fortune to meet Ruth Downie at the Roman Festival in Chester. I started reading it a few weeks ago, and was instantly engaged and delighted by its central character, the hapless, kind, curious surgeon Given that this book is about Rome, or at least Romans in Britain, it is a no-brainer that I would want to read it. However, the reason it has passed me by until now is that it is a crime novel. This genre is not my favourite, it has to be said. I ended up buying a copy in June when I had the good fortune to meet Ruth Downie at the Roman Festival in Chester. I started reading it a few weeks ago, and was instantly engaged and delighted by its central character, the hapless, kind, curious surgeon Ruso. This is a wonderful and well-written story, full of rich detail of the time. Downie has a deft touch with humour, tragedy and drama. The pages of this book turned themselves, and I was sorry to reach the end. I enjoyed it thoroughly, and will be moving swiftly on to the next book in the series. ...more I received this book as a gift from my daughter who loved the book. So with that in mind, I began to read it. Maybe a quarter of the way through it, I knew that I would have to struggle to finish it, but I wasn't sure why. After having read the entire book, I knew. This is an author who tells a good tale, but has not yet developed the art of giving her characters depth. They are cardboard people who do what they do as they meet their challenges in what otherwise is an interesting situation. My d I received this book as a gift from my daughter who loved the book. So with that in mind, I began to read it. Maybe a quarter of the way through it, I knew that I would have to struggle to finish it, but I wasn't sure why. After having read the entire book, I knew. This is an author who tells a good tale, but has not yet developed the art of giving her characters depth. They are cardboard people who do what they do as they meet their challenges in what otherwise is an interesting situation. My daughter read the second in the series before reading the first, and maybe, by then, the author had grown in her ability to create characters with whom one could relate, but starting with the first in the series, I probably won't go on to read the second. ...more A very enjoyable first book in a mystery series set in the Roman Empire. The setting is unusual -- a backwater in Britannia -- and the characters of Ruso and Tilla very appealling. The villain is a bit predictable, but what sets this one apart is the use of humour, which is muchly needed. Four stars overall, recommended. For the longer review, please go here: http://www.epinions.com/review/Book_M...<---C>Ruth Downie</---C>", "Title": "Medicus"},
