{"Comments": "<+++>Madame de St\u00e4el</+++>An absolute life changing book. I have,<---M> not joking</---M>, ordered an etching of Madame de Stael which is on its way, and then I plan to frame it and hang it up somewhere so I can daily give props to such a fantastic person. I've also ordered some massive 900 page collection of her works, because while this book was excellent, I could have used more quotes. On that topic will get to the few complaints I have with this book and potentially Madame de Stael in particular: 1) Humongous things mentioned once An absolute life changing book. I have, not joking, ordered an etching of Madame de Stael which is on its way, and then I plan to frame it and hang it up somewhere so I can daily give props to such a fantastic person. I've also ordered some massive 900 page collection of her works, because while this book was excellent, I could have used more quotes. On that topic will get to the few complaints I have with this book and potentially Madame de Stael in particular: 1) Humongous things mentioned once, and then not come back to later whatsoever. Example A: Incest? I wish this author interjected herself into the biography more. It's brilliantly told, amazing job as a biographer, but at a crucial part in 1784, she just presents a diary entry that is blatantly incestuous towards her father. Drily noted as \"startling\" and moves on. Extreme and highly demonstrable actions between father and daughter until the end of her life since she dragged around a huge portrait of him, the books, and all the tomb stuff. But there was no real analysis about the author or her contemporaries about it? Those people were constantly writing back and forth to each other--SOMEONE had to comment on it. Was this normal or weird? It seems weird. But then this is someone who hung out with Byron. This made it somewhat hard for me to stomach a lot of the intense father/daughter moments that make up the rest of the book--did anything happen? was the diary entry all wishful thinking? It's odd that her daughter burnt a vast amount of Madame de Stael's letters and papers but somehow this survived the purge. Maybe note on that? I don't know.<---F> I was very startled</---F>. Example B: Syphilis? Skip ahead to 1787. \"Intellectual compatibility and opium ensured that her house in Colombier, near Neuchatel, where Benjamin was recovering from a bout of syphilis, he felt truly happy for the first time in his life.\" -- now this is NOT about de Stael but Madame de Charriere & <---C>Benjamin Constant</---C>, who was the Richard Burton to de Stael's Liz Taylor. You'd think a lanky poor guy with syphilis would be a turn off, but not for Madame de Stael who embarked on a legendary on & off romance with him--and had one child with him. So did she get syphilis too? Is that how she died? The black spots, sudden decline? Was there something congenital going on with her last child beyond just \"large head\" and \"slow\"? What was up with her mother's illness? How did Benjamin Constant die? (<---B>I looked it up--odd symptoms, suspicious as hell</---B>). I mean if they didn't have death certificates or science back then, ask some forensic coroners their opinion. The author never says what she died from. The incest and syphilis mentions contain probably three paragraphs together in a 522 page book and I don't know, deserve possibly closer attention. However, I think partially it's because it's almost TOO much source material, which leads to my second minor issue: 2) Easily could have been two volumes or more. The end feels rushed anyways. Pre-Revolution: Madame de Stael trying to prevent the Revolution. In and out of favor with Marie Antoinette and the royalists, finally falling out. The Terror: Madame de Stael trying to save as many from The Terror as she can. Operates a Scarlet Pimpernel spy ring. Could have saved Marie Antoinette & family but the queen still holding a grudge. Flees from Robespierre. Goes to England where I'm sorry, Fanny Burney was a total bitch. I really expected better of her. Disappointed. And she had many chances to redeem herself, but FAILED so hard each time. Thank goodness the cache of letters of de Stael's in her possession (because de Stael bankrolled and rescued Burney's husband and Narbonne--the recipient of those letters) did not get burnt by Burney like intended because mislaid. Wanders around Europe, writes book defending Marie Antoinette, more works, cements her renown. Returns after Robespierre falls, becomes an enemy of Napoleon's. The War with Napoleon--and this could be volumes in itself I think. Gripping historical drama. And the amazing thing as with all the people she made enemies with--justifiable each time, since she was one of the few that could openly defy very dangerous people. Indeed, she's perpetually out of favor, in exile, fleeing to 40 yards, suspected by secret agents, trailed by spies, and she gets away with it each time. When her book was banned by Napoleon, her son manages to get away with the copy over the back wall while mom stalled. And she seemed to be a master of making enormous scenes (writhing and screaming on floors) to slow down authorities while her friends escaped--I counted three separate times in this book of that. Since de Stael did help everyone, saying \"There is, in the short span of existence, no greater chance of happiness than to save the life of an innocent man.\" She saved that ungrateful Talleyrand after all and it was the fact she had so many diverse friends--Jacobins to Girondists to Royalists to Ultramontanes to British Prime Minister to the Tsar to Anti-Slavery Movement..and Napoleon's family. Her next door neighbor was his brother Joseph and she was buddies with Lucien too. So when Joseph was forced to tell her that Napoleon said \"I will break her. I wish crush her but it's foolish of me to get heated. Tell her to be quiet.\" Her response back? \"There is a kind of pleasure in resisting an iniquitous power. Genius too is a power.\" Such a bad ass answer. Her time in Germany. Winning over Goethe, helping spark Romanticism--and her time in Germany was hilarious. Really any time she inflicts her personality on an unwitting populace, no one really knows what to do. Her personality must have been out of the world. Everyone seemed to write to her, so many quotes are like \"and as she recounted to Thomas Jefferson in a letter dated..\" but we're not told how she knows Jefferson or other Americans she wrote to really. The author does note that de Stael wrote how Americans would be the future world power and planned a US tour to write a book on her impressions, but died before she could pull that scheme off. Then her part in the coalition that brought down Napoleon. Now best friends with Wellington, she talks the English into withdrawing their troops. Her friendship with Byron. Feminism. I enjoyed the fact that her father (creepy love aside) was basically the Warren Buffet of his time. And the fact she was crafty enough with her money to actually have died leaving an even greater fortune than she inherited. The men in her life, each and every one, seemed to be crazed gambling syphilitic egoists who she was constantly giving enormous amounts of money to. So it shocks me that there are so few books out on her. Only like two biographies in the past century? That's insane! There should be hundreds of books about her. She's like a Bernhardt, in that she was feted and loved by the entire world, and had a knack of being in the right place at the right time. Although de Stael wielded actual political influence and did change the course of history. She even was so magnanimous that she foiled an assassination attempt on Napoleon's life while he was in exile. I found it was interesting that in exile, one of Napoleon's obsessions was de Stael. I really hope someone writes the book on the feud. Her relationship with her children. That can be a deal breaker sometimes in dealing with people from the past. They were just so shitty to their kids. Look at Rousseau. Madame de Stael got lucky in that her father was a financial genius and her mom did physics for fun, hung out with Gibbon, had a ton of money and included her in their life. And she paid it forward. She was an excellent daughter (with hopefully nothing more than that) and seemed like a great mom that even with the lovers, the racing all over Europe, the intrigues, her kids and entourage were all devoted to each other. It\u2019s not that often in reading history do you come across someone who seems to be so much a part of their era, while at the same time transcending it. For example, I do not think she would have that much culture shock if you magically transported her to modern day US. She\u2019d be disappointed most likely we have not gotten further in two hundred years. TL;dr: Fantastic biography on a legendary figure who shaped political thought, literature, and history. ...more Although Madame de Stael was an interesting and important woman, this book was disappointing. Fairweather never manages to provide you with a real person, presenting facts instead. The facts are great, but I felt something was missing. Fairweather tells you that Stael was brilliant, but never demonstrates it. You have to accept it as a fact because people at the time said so and the author says so. I am willing to believe it, but it would have been better if I could have seen it for myself by be Although Madame de Stael was an interesting and important woman, this book was disappointing. Fairweather never manages to provide you with a real person, presenting facts instead. The facts are great, but I felt something was missing. Fairweather tells you that Stael was brilliant, but never demonstrates it. You have to accept it as a fact because people at the time said so and the author says so. I am willing to believe it, but it would have been better if I could have seen it for myself by being given better examples of her writing and her wit, or more complete details on her brilliant thoughts. What did come across clearly was that poor Madame de Stael had never grown up and never achieved mastery of her emotions. Her pathetic clutching at various lovers made me cringe. It reminded me of myself. But then, I\u2019m not a brilliant political thinker who holds the most important salons in Europe and have never had, nor will I ever have, any influence on the high and mighty. It is interesting to learn that in those salons of Paris, the hostess was not simply the one who provided the food and drink. She conducted the conversation which, to be successful, needed to be witty and brilliant. Oh, would I love to sit one evening at a table where the conversation is witty and brilliant. Or even just witty and intelligent. ...more Napoleon hated her like an arch-enemy. Apparently the feeling was mutual. This shit is ON, ASAP. FROM THE SALONS TO THE BARRICADES: THE RISE OF WOMEN OF LETTERS IN WORLD LITERATURE IN THE 17TH AND 18TH CENTURIES--MADAME DE SCUDERY, DE LA FAYETTE, DE SEVIGNE, DE STAEL, ANNE FINCH, COUNTESS OF WINCHELSEA, APHRA BEHN & MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT----FROM THE WORLD LITERATURE FORUM RECOMMENDED CLASSICS AND MASTERPIECES SERIES VIA GOODREADS\u2014-ROBERT SHEPPARD, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Individual freedom, male or female, has in reality always been the exception rather than the rule, and in the early days of the FROM THE SALONS TO THE BARRICADES: THE RISE OF WOMEN OF LETTERS IN WORLD LITERATURE IN THE 17TH AND 18TH CENTURIES--MADAME DE SCUDERY, DE LA FAYETTE, DE SEVIGNE, DE STAEL, ANNE FINCH, COUNTESS OF WINCHELSEA, APHRA BEHN & MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT----FROM THE WORLD LITERATURE FORUM RECOMMENDED CLASSICS AND MASTERPIECES SERIES VIA GOODREADS\u2014-ROBERT SHEPPARD, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Individual freedom, male or female, has in reality always been the exception rather than the rule, and in the early days of the modern world it was rather a privilige of a select few of the nobility or the richest bourgeious classes rather than a right or a reality, only later, after the French and American Revolutions broadening to include the middle and lower classes. Women, nonetheless, from the 1600's were beginning to enjoy some increasing measure of that freedom including the gradual emergence of their voice in the world of letters, starting with the priviliged women of the aristocratic classes who frequented the court \"salons\" and gradually broadening that voice to include larger and larger elements of the middle-classes. As in Heian Japan with the writings of Lady Murasaki Shikibu in her \"Tale of Genji,\" women's writing flourished in European court circles, especially in France. While the dominant aristocratic codes severely restricted women in their conduct, education and freedom to think, learn and write, yet aristocratic privilege could allow a few individual and talented women the scope for the exercise of their powers of intellect and expression. Thus the Marquise de Rambouillet opened her famous \"Blue Room\" salon around 1608, which was to develop over forty years into a nexus of intellectual challenge and interchange, allowing women and bourgeious intellectuals to rise to the capacity of intellectual influence and interchange once the exclusive province of aristocratic men, competing even with the royal court. There the emergent values of wit, intelligence and sensitivity came to challenge the traditional official court values of military prowess and power. Such salons continued to exercise social influence over the next two hundred years up to the French Revolution, including such later voices as Madame De Sta\u00ebl of the Napoleonic era. Women writers such as Madeleine de Scud\u00e9ry, Madame de La Fayette, Madame de S\u00e9vign\u00e9, often referred to as the \"Pr\u00e9cieuses\u201d or \"Bluestocking\" ladies of culture and refinement, became leaders and mediators of the Enlightenment and of progressive social ideas, or influential literary artists. This movement soon spread to other nations such as England where women such as Katherine Philips, \"the Matchless Orinda\" and Anne Finch, Countess of Winchilsea established coteries frequented by such writers as Swift and Pope and began to make their own voices heard. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu joined their ranks with accounts of her travels and experiences as a woman in the Ottoman court of the Grande Porte. Soon such aristocratic female voices were joined by such middle-class women as Aphra Behn, author of the novel \"Oroonoko,\" perhaps the first professional woman writer in the English language. Thereafter, the bourgeious revolutions brought a flood of male and female writers to prominence, increasingly insisting on individual rights and individual voices, such as Tom Paine, whose \"Rights of Man\" attacked aristocracy and monarchy, and such female comrades at the barricades as Mary Wollstonecraft, mother of Mary Shelley the author of \"Frankenstein,\" wife of social reformer Richard Godwin, and author of \"A Vindication of the Rights of Women,\" one of the seminal feminist writings of World Literature. The influence of the increasing democratizing influence of the middle and lower classes was not, however, always a liberal one in the direction of greater freedom for either men or women. In England the middle-class revolution was often associated with the Puritan movement, which severely condemned and restricted the cultural liberties and libertinage of the aristocratic classes, denouncing their emphasis on beauty, wit, frivolity, art, sexual license and foppery in favor of a new form of repressive religious conformity, and the French Revolution, followed by the Russian and Chinese communist revolutions often imposed a revolutionary austerity and puritanism which limited the sexual freedom and individuality of both sexes. The salon literature also included a strong element of the pastoral, the idealization of the simple life of shepherds in the countryside, often an escape from or counterbalance to the pressures and hypocrisies of urban life and the enforced conformity of court culture. This pastoral dimension, along with its \"sentimental\" sensibility, was also emphasized in the informal salons of Englishwomen such as Katherine Phillips, who convened their circles not in the urban capital of London but rather in the aristocratic country estates or rural England. This influence evolved further into the idealization of nature and the uncorrupted natural focus of Romanticism. MADELINE DE SCUDERY, WRITER AND CONVERSATIONALIST OF THE GRAND SALONS Madeleine de Scud\u00e9ry (1607-1701) was part of a movement in the late Renaissance in England and France where women adapted classical rhetorical theory to their own unique conditions. She thus revised discourse to be modeled on salon conversation rather than public speaking, a forum reserved to men. Typically, he speaker in the salon built on the ideas of the speaker before them, opting for consensus rather than oppositional debate and argument. Scud\u00e9ry's \"Les Femmes Illustres\" (1642) addressed itself to women and defends education, rather than the beauty or the cosmetic arts, as a means of social mobility for women. It justified women's participation in rhetoric and literary culture in the forms most accessible to them: salon conversation and letter writing within intellectual circles. It foregrounds women speakers as models for the speeches, including Cleopatra of Egypt. In it as well as \"Conversations Sur Divers Sujets\" she adapted classical rhetorical theory from Cicero, Quintilian, Aristotle, and the sophists to a theory of salon conversation and letter writing. Other works of hers such as \"Conversation,\" \"The Art of Speaking,\" \"Raillery,\" \"Invention,\" and \"The Manner of Writing Letters\" offered guides and models for women's intellectual and social formation while forcefully recording instances of salon conversation and social scenarios where women take intellectual control of the conversation. In another famous work which became the basis of a popular kind of multi-party social role-playing game, \"Cl\u00e9lie,\" Scud\u00e9ry invented the famous \"Carte de Tendre,\" a map of an Arcadia where the geography is all based around the theme of love: the \"River of Inclination\" flows past the villages of \"Billet Doux\" (Love Letter), \"Petits Soins\" (Little Trinkets) and so forth, forming a sort of board-game of love's escapades. Scud\u00e9ry was a skilled conversationalist and several volumes purporting to report her conversations upon various topics were published during her lifetime. De Scudery is also credited with establishing the genre of the \"roman \u00e0 clef\" or \"novel with a key\" in which the fictional story is based on and reveals the lives of true persons in a coded fictional disguise, which the reader enjoys discovering. Most of her novels exhibited this characteristic and provided readers with great enjoyment in searching for and discovering \"the key\" to the hidden lives of their contemporaries. The roman \u00e0 clef has since been used by writers as diverse as Victor Hugo, Phillip K. Dick, and Bret Easton Ellis. MADAME DE LA FAYETTE, PIONEER OF THE HISTORICAL NOVEL Marie-Madeleine Pioche de La Vergne, comtesse de La Fayette (1634-1693), better known as Madame de La Fayette, was a French writer, the author of \"La Princesse de Cl\u00e8ves,\" France's first historical novel and one of the earliest novels in World Literature. At 16, she became the maid of honor to Queen Anne of Austria and began also to acquire a literary education from the scholar Gilles M\u00e9nage, who gave her lessons in Italian and Latin. M\u00e9nage also introduced her to the fashionable salons of Madame de Rambouillet and Madeleine de Scud\u00e9ry. There she formed a close intellectual friendship with Fran\u00e7ois de La Rochefoucauld, the renown author of the sardonic \"Maxims.\" La Fayette's most famous novel \"La Princesse de Cl\u00e8ves,\" first published anonymously in March 1678 was an immense success, and is often taken to be the first true French novel and a prototype not only of the French historical novel but also of the genre of the psychological novel.The novel's action takes place between October 1558 and November 1559 at the royal court of Henry II of France. The novel recreates that era with remarkable precision. Nearly every character \u2013 except the heroine \u2013 is a true historical figure. Events and intrigues unfold with great faithfulness to documentary records. The Princess marries but falls in love with a dashing noble the Duke de Nemours, and a chain of intrigues follow giving a moving panorama of life and love at the royal court. Her life, however leads not to her lover's bed but rather to a convent. MADAME DE SEVIGNE, ICON OF BELLE LETTRES AND EPISTOLARY PROSE Marie de Rabutin-Chantal, Marquise de S\u00e9vign\u00e9 (1626-1696) was a French aristocrat, remembered especially for her exquisite prose style in letter-writing. Most of her letters, celebrated for their wit and vividness, were addressed to her daughter and gained wide circulation in literary circles. She is revered in France as one of the great icons of French literature. Mme de S\u00e9vign\u00e9 corresponded with her daughter for nearly thirty years. A clandestine edition, containing twenty-eight letters or portions of letters, was published in 1725, followed by two others the next year. Pauline de Simiane, Mme de S\u00e9vign\u00e9's granddaughter, decided to officially publish her grandmother's correspondence and working with the editor Denis-Marius Perrin of Aix-en-Provence, she published 614 letters from 1734-1737, then 772 letters in 1754. The letters were selected according to Mme de Simiane's instructions: she rejected those that dealt too closely with family matters, or those that seemed poorly written. Mme de S\u00e9vign\u00e9's letters play an important role in the novel \"\u00c0 la recherche du temps perdu\" In Search of Lost Time\" by Marcel Proust where they figure as the favorite reading of the narrator's grandmother, and, following her death, his mother. ANNE FINCH, COUNTESS OF WINCHELSEA---\"THE MATCHLESS ORINDA\" Anne Finch, Countess of Winchilsea (1661-1720), was an English poetess who became known by her nom de plume, as \"The Matchless Orinda.\" She was well-educated as her family believed in good education for girls as well as for boys. She became one of six maids of honour to Mary of Modena, who was the wife of James, Duke of York, who would later become King James II. In addition to her writing, Finch was renown for introducing and adapting the French institution of the literary salon to the English environment, often focused on an aristocratic lady's country home rather than city residence. Finch\u2019s range as a writer was vast and she experimented with the poetic traditions of her day, often straying from the fold through her use of rhyme, meter and content, which ranged from the simplistic to the metaphysical. Additionally, Finch wrote several satiric vignettes modelled after the short tales of French fable writer Jean de La Fontaine. Her poetry is often considered to fall in the category of Augustan, reflecting upon nature and finding both an emotional and religious relationship to it in her verse. APHRA BEHN, THE FIRST WOMAN PROFESSIONAL WRITER IN ENGLISH LITERATURE Aphra Behn (1640-1689) was a prolific dramatist of the English Restoration, the first English professional female literary writer, and author of the novel \"Oroonoko\" depicting the tragedy of an African prince shipped to South America as a black slave. It is notable for its exploration of slavery, race, and gender early in history. Her writing also contributed to the amatory fiction genre of British literature and along with Delarivier Manley and Eliza Haywood, she was sometimes referred to as part of \"The fair triumvirate of wit.\" She was of modest middle-class origin and traveled in South America and Europe. She is reported to have served as a spy for the Stuart King Charles II. Her political sympathies were conservative, Catholic-sympathetic, Stuart royalist and Tory. Monetary necessity compelled her to write, and her success at it in both plays and prose enabled her to become the first example of a professional woman writer in England and a model and hero for future women such as Virginia Woolf who wrote in \"A Room of One's Own:\" \"All women together, ought to let flowers fall upon the grave of Aphra Behn... for it was she who earned them the right to speak their minds... Behn proved that money could be made by writing at the sacrifice, perhaps, of certain agreeable qualities; and so by degrees writing became not merely a sign of folly and a distracted mind but was of practical importance.\" MADAME DE STAEL, ICON OF EUROPEAN ROMANTICISM Madame de Sta\u00ebl, was a French woman of letters of Swiss origin whose lifetime overlapped with the events of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic era. She was one of Napoleon's principal opponents. Celebrated for her conversational eloquence, she participated actively in the political and intellectual life of her times. Her works, both critical and fictional, made their mark on the history of European Romanticism. Her father was the prominent Swiss banker and statesman Jacques Necker, who was the Director of Finance under King Louis XVI of France. Her mother was Suzanne Curchod, hostess of one of the most popular salons of Paris, where figures such as Buffon, Marmontel, Grimm, Edward Gibbon, the Abb\u00e9 Raynal, and Jean-Fran\u00e7ois de la Harpe were frequent guests. Her mother habitually brought her as a young child to sit at her feet in her famous salon, where the sober intellectuals took pleasure in stimulating the brilliant child. This exposure occasioned, as in the case of another child prodigy, John Stuart Mill, a breakdown in adolescence, but the seeds of a literary vocation had been sown irrevocably. She married the Swedish ambassador to the French royal court, a fact which gave her both a high status in French society as well as valuable diplomatic immunity during the excesses of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic wars. At the time of the French Revolution she was enthusiastic for a mixture of Rousseauism and constitutionalism in politics, favoring an American-style constitutional republic or limited constitutional monarchy and democracy like England. Her novels were bestsellers and her literary criticism was highly influential. When she was allowed to live in Paris she greatly encouraged any political dissident from Louis's regime. She exulted in the meeting of the Estates General at the beginning of the Revolution. In the early days of the revolutionary period she was in Paris taking an interest in, and attending the Assembly, and holding a salon on the Rue du Bac, attended by Talleyrand, Abb\u00e9 Delille, Clermont-Tonnerre, and Gouverneur Morris. Napoleon said about her, that she \"teaches people to think who never thought before, or who had forgotten how to think.\" Nonetheless she became a bitter opponent of Napoleon, leading him to order her exile from Paris, commanding she not come within 40 leagues of the city, causing her to seek exile in Germany and across Europe. Auguste Comte included Madame de Sta\u00ebl in his Calendar of Great Men. In a book with the same name, Comte's disciple Frederic Harrison wrote about Sta\u00ebl and her works: \"In Delphine a woman, for the first time since the Revolution, reopened the romance of the heart which was in vogue in the century preceding. Comte would daily recite the sentence from Delphine, \"There is nothing real in the world but love.\" \"Our thoughts and our acts,\" she said, \"can only give us happiness through results: and results are not often in our own control. Feeling is entirely within our power; and it gives us a direct source of happiness, which nothing outside can take away.\" The famous quote, \"Tout comprendre rend tr\u00e8s-indulgent\", commonly translated as \"To know all is to forgive all\", is found in her most famous novel \"Corinne.\" Her works, Harrison wrote, \"precede the works of Scott, Byron, Shelley, and partly of Chateaubriand, their historical importance is great in the development of modern Romanticism, of the romance of the heart, the delight in nature, and in the art, antiquities, and history of Europe.\" MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT, ADVOCATE OF THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN AND MOTHER OF MARY SHELLEY, AUTHOR OF \"FRANKENSTEIN\" Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-1797) was an eighteenth-century British writer, philosopher, and advocate of women's rights. During her brief career, she wrote novels, treatises, a travel narrative, a history of the French Revolution, a conduct book, and a children's book. Wollstonecraft is best known for \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792), in which she argues that women are not naturally inferior to men, but appear to be only because they lack education. She suggests that both men and women should be treated as rational beings and imagines a social order founded on reason. She, like Tom Paine travelled to France at the beginning of the Revolution and took part in its events. She published numerous books including \"Thoughts on the Education of Daughters\" (1787) and her children's book \"Original Stories from Real Life\" (1788). Later she married the philosopher and pioneer of modern anarchist thought Richard Godwin, with whom she had a daughter who would become a famous author, Mary Shelley, author of the novel \"Frankenstein\" and wife of Percy Shelley, the renown Romantic poet and revolutionary thinker. She died from complications of childbirth resulting from the birth of Mary, whom Godwin raised and educated. Her reputation suffered discrediting during the conservative Victorian period, but her life and works were re-evaluated upwards with the growth of the modern feminist movement in the 20th Century. SPIRITUS MUNDI AND WOMEN OF LETTERS My own work, \"Spiritus Mundi\" draws on the models of many women writers, including George Eliot, Virginia Woolf, Gertrude Stein and many others. One of its main characters is Eva Strong, who is a writer, lover of the protagonist Sartorius, and an activist in the global campaign for a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, a new organ of the United Nations modeled on the European Parliament for global democracy. World Literature Forum invites you to check out the great Women of Letters in World Literature, and also the contemporary epic novel Spiritus Mundi, by Robert Sheppard. For a fuller discussion of the concept of World Literature you are invited to look into the extended discussion in the new book Spiritus Mundi, by Robert Sheppard, one of the principal themes of which is the emergence and evolution of World Literature: For Discussions on World Literature and n Literary Criticism in Spiritus Mundi: http://worldliteratureandliterarycrit ... Robert Sheppard Editor-in-Chief World Literature Forum Author, Spiritus Mundi Novel Author\u2019s Blog: http://robertalexandersheppard.wordpr ... Spiritus Mundi on Goodreads: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17 ... Spiritus Mundi on Amazon, Book I: http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00CIGJFGO Spiritus Mundi, Book II: The Romance http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00CGM8BZG Copyright Robert Sheppard 2013 All Rights Reserved ...more <---A>Maria Fairweather</---A>'s biography of Germaine de Sta\u00ebl is unquestionably a great book for anyone lucky enought to the culutural baggage necessary to enjoy it. In today's terms, Madame de Sta\u00ebl was one of the great movers and shakers of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic era. The exact nature of her greatness is however a matter of dispute. In my view, Ms. Fairweather greatly undervalues Madame de Sta\u00ebl's accomplishments in the cultural sphere and greatly overvalues her achievements in the political ar Maria Fairweather's biography of Germaine de Sta\u00ebl is unquestionably a great book for anyone lucky enought to the culutural baggage necessary to enjoy it. In today's terms, Madame de Sta\u00ebl was one of the great movers and shakers of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic era. The exact nature of her greatness is however a matter of dispute. In my view, Ms. Fairweather greatly undervalues Madame de Sta\u00ebl's accomplishments in the cultural sphere and greatly overvalues her achievements in the political arena. What is certain is that Ms. Fairweather's book is a rollicking great read about an extraordinary woman who seemed to know every important political and cultural player in her time. Amongst many others, Germaine de Sta\u00ebl knew the Duke of Wellington (the victor at Waterloo) and Marshall Kutuzov (who forced Napoleon out of Russia) , Schiller, Goethe and Byron all of whom found her ugly and overbearing yet were proud friends that admired her for her tremendeous intellect. Germaine de Sta\u00eb was an extravagant personality. She was a Daddy's girl and a spoiled brat. She was ugly, had ghastly taste in clothes and was highly promiscuous. Depending on one's point of view she was either extremely pushy or highly energetic. She was loyal to her friends and very courageous. Ultimately from the the perspective of the mid-nineteenth century onwards, Germaine de Sta\u00ebl was right on all issues. She was a vigorous promoter of liberal democracy. She was opposed to both the Ancien R\u00e9gime and the Napoleonic dictator ship. She wanted government appointments and promotions to be made on the basis of competency rather than patronage. She advocated the abollition of slavery and serfdom. Although, she certainly felt that she deserved more political influence than she had, she was relatively quiet on the question of the rights of women not because indifferentur but because she was a very political person who put her efforts first and foremost on issues that were clearly on the political agenda. Ms. Fairweather in her biography masterfully explains the importance of the institution of the Salon and the Saloni\u00e8res in European history. Both Germaine de Sta\u00ebl and her mother Mme Necker were among the leading saloni\u00e8res of their times. In their weekly Salons they brought together leading political and literary figures together for the purpose of socializing and discussing new ideas. Prior to the advent of the mass media, the Salons were the best vehicles for introducing the political elites to new ideas on government, economics, literature, music, and other areas in the arts. I find myelf disagreeing with Ms. Fairweather on a wide number of issues. Ms. Fairweather is of the opinon that Mme. de Sta\u00ebl's most successful novel Corinne is about being Germaine de Sta\u00ebl and nothing else; whereas I feel that Corinne makes a very compelling case for the reunification of Italy. Ms. Fairweather notes that Mme. de Sta\u00ebl's study of German art, literature, music and philosophy (\"De l'Allemagne) was a major force behind the rise of the romantic but discounts the actual theories that she presents on German culture and Romanticism. For my part, I feel that Mme. de Sta\u00ebl's views on the subject are extremely solid and require only someone to restate them in the terms of our current century. Ms. Fairweather's book is tremendous fun for anyone who has a solid background in the history and the literature of Germaine de Sta\u00ebl's era. If you think that you match the description, then do not hesitate to plunge into it. For readers unfamiliar with the Napoleonic and Revolutionary era, the book may prove to be a dreary slog. ...more I'm rating this book (that Leah loaned me last year -- thank you!) so highly because of the subject matter: a politically influential genius of France's troubled revolutionary times, thought by all to be one of the time's most brilliant minds, but maligned by history as inconsequential. Every so often I encounter such historical women of genius and it angers me that I've never heard of them. Wikipedia quotes a 1911 encyclopedia that dismisses her ideas as unoriginal, but in reading her biography I'm rating this book (that Leah loaned me last year -- thank you!) so highly because of the subject matter: a politically influential genius of France's troubled revolutionary times, thought by all to be one of the time's most brilliant minds, but maligned by history as inconsequential. Every so often I encounter such historical women of genius and it angers me that I've never heard of them. Wikipedia quotes a 1911 encyclopedia that dismisses her ideas as unoriginal, but in reading her biography I understand this perception: when women are barred from politics, they must find other ways to influence history. This one was constantly surrounded by intellectuals and men of power; who is to say their ideas were not shaped by her? This woman was equal to Napoleon and his greatest social enemy. (A scene between them: she had prepared many arguments to counter his famous misogyny at a meeting\u2014he short-circuits her by staring at her decolletage and asking if she'd nursed all her children.) Girlfriends, I encourage you to find inspiration in Madame de Stael! I feel I have found a friend who shares my values and passions, and am eager to dig up her works and get to know her mind first hand. ...more This book has been entered into my bookshelf of historical and biographical works as a permanent resident so I can go back to it later. Unlike most folks I read this as part of my research on the era of Napoleon for a research project (roleplaying game setting design) so what I was looking for was a vast array of information about people, culture, politics and events that wasn't a dry history read, and it did the job admirably. It definitely opened up information to me that I had not encountered e This book has been entered into my bookshelf of historical and biographical works as a permanent resident so I can go back to it later. Unlike most folks I read this as part of my research on the era of Napoleon for a research project (roleplaying game setting design) so what I was looking for was a vast array of information about people, culture, politics and events that wasn't a dry history read, and it did the job admirably. It definitely opened up information to me that I had not encountered elsewhere about someone who's importance and influence was ignored by many a historical author since she fought in the battlefield of politics, letters and influence rather than musket and cannon. ...more An amazing book about an amazing woman, who evidently lived her life at full throttle, as only the super rich can truly afford to do. She defied the rigid conventions of pre-revolutionary France, survived the genocide of revolutionary France, and used her influence and fierce intellect to challenge Napoleon in post-revolutionary France. She suffered injustice, exile, miscarriages, sexism, and some ridiculous hairstyles, and finally gets the exhaustive, meticulous and enlightening biography that An amazing book about an amazing woman, who evidently lived her life at full throttle, as only the super rich can truly afford to do. She defied the rigid conventions of pre-revolutionary France, survived the genocide of revolutionary France, and used her influence and fierce intellect to challenge Napoleon in post-revolutionary France. She suffered injustice, exile, miscarriages, sexism, and some ridiculous hairstyles, and finally gets the exhaustive, meticulous and enlightening biography that she deserves. ...more I LOVED this book and it definitely helped me have a deeper understanding of this era. How Madame de Stael has been forgotten by so many I do not know but she was an incredible woman and deserves to be remembered. I was intrigued by the life of an influential and intellectual female during and following the era of the French Rev. I found her daily life and character were of interest to me as were her relationships with other historical and literary characers.It is a highly readable and fascinating text. Very well written and researched book. I loved it immensely. If you want a great book on not only Madame de Stael, but the times in which she lived, this is a great one. Not having heard of her before, I was absolutely fascinated by the story of this incredible, passionate, highly influential and important woman. I'm in awe. I read this a while ago but loved it enough to lend to Kristen (read her great review). I found Madame de Stael's life fascinating enough to forgive some uneven writing. You will too, I hope!<+++>Madame de St\u00e4el</+++>", "Title": "Madame de St\u00e4el"},
