{"Comments": "It is all in the themes,<---M> I guess</---M>, and few writers write about themes that get under my skin in quite the same way that Barnes does. All the same, I\u2019d better not run ahead of myself. This book is based on a true story. I had wondered if it was true as I was reading it and although I knew that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was more or less real (<---B>if somewhat larger than life</---B>) there was still the possibility that Barnes had just slotted him into a work of otherwise complete fiction to make some sort of poin It is all in the themes, I guess, and few writers write about themes that get under my skin in quite the same way that Barnes does. All the same, I\u2019d better not run ahead of myself. This book is based on a true story. I had wondered if it was true as I was reading it and although I knew that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was more or less real (if somewhat larger than life) there was still the possibility that Barnes had just slotted him into a work of otherwise complete fiction to make some sort of point or other \u2013 probably to do with Sherlock Holmes. I knew nothing, of course, of George Edaliji, despite, it turns out, the important role his case proved in later legal history. Like in A Clockwork Orange , there are few fears greater than when incredibly stupid people have complete power over you. There is nothing more frightening than people who know something is the case, know it with all of their hearts. To be the victim of such irrational certainty is a terrifying idea \u2013 and one that occurs far too often in reality. It is hard not to love a story in which a great wrong is committed, particularly if there is then also hope of redemption. You know, Christianity would have remained just a curious little Jewish sect if it wasn\u2019t for the aching need people have for redemption. The best of fiction, and this is the best of fiction, presents human redemption in a way that is much more convincing and, to me at least, much more moving than religion does. I suspect that I simply don\u2019t have the imagination required to believe in humanity-wide redemption and can only cope with an individual level redemption. As I\u2019m writing this review I\u2019m trying to avoid needing to put a spoiler alert on it. Look, it is easy to find the story behind this novel: Wikipedia was where I turned when my curiosity got the better of me (fortunately, late enough in the novel for me to have worked out how this story was likely to pan out), but they are called spoilers for good reason. There were parts of this story which I was very glad I did not know what happened next beforehand. I was born with a rather bad astigmatism, so I have a natural affinity with anyone similarly afflicted. I also have spent the last eight years representing people who have found themselves in trouble and were unable to represent themselves. So, there were many parts of this book in which I saw myself reflected back at me (if in a slightly distorted mirror). The bits I\u2019ve mentioned are the parts where this is easiest to mention, where it can be mentioned with some sense of self-satisfaction, at least in part. Where I saw myself and found it much harder to continue looking was around the relationship between Sir Arthur and Jane \u2013 particularly after his first wife died and his daughter told him that her mother said, on her deathbed no less, that he would be likely to marry again. I\u2019ve played exactly these sorts of games too, and like everyone else who has played them, I\u2019ve lost and won in much the same ways. Few writers capture the complexity of human relations \u2013 sexual as well as emotional - for me with quite the same shock of recognition that Barnes does.<---F> And then there\u2019s death of course</---F>. Barnes has made a concerted effort over recent years to make this theme his own, as if he is laying claim to the kingdom of death in contemporary fiction. Or at least, the kingdom of thinking about the nature of death and why it haunts us so much. He reminds me of a modern day Montaigne. Montaigne said somewhere in his essays that his way of confronting the horrors of death was to think about it at least once a day \u2013 so that thereby he would make it familiar and so no longer something that needed to be feared. The scene at the end of this book where George confronts the ubiquity of death on a walk about a park on a pleasant Sunday evening is a lovely example of this most human and possibly inevitable of preoccupations. Holmes is also a constant shadow across this book. It is a strange thing \u2013 I nearly finished reading all of the Holmes stories recently, but one of the things that was completely clear was that Doyle didn\u2019t enjoy writing them, particularly not the stories after Holmes came back from the dead. There is a snideness in the writing that needs to be ignored to really enjoy the stories. This is something Barnes makes clear in this book too. But he also plays with Holmes in other ways \u2013 this is, after all, a detective mystery and having Doyle in the staring role makes interesting comparisons inevitable. Perhaps my favourite part of the entire book is where Doyle spends a weekend with Captain Anson \u2013 and like Shakespeare, Barnes puts the most fascinating and thought provoking lines in the mouth of the least likeable character. The other thing this book does is make you think about how easy it is to put ideas into people\u2019s heads and how hard it is to get those ideas out of your head again. Was George a sexual deviant? Was he too fond of his sister? How easy it is to pollute the mind of someone. And how easy it is for us to get carried away and to do too much for someone we want to help and thereby destroy whatever hope we had of truly helping them in the first place. And racism \u2013 of course, racism is a horribly obvious theme in this book, whether George admits it or not. You might find this book a bit slow, but it will get under your skin. Like the best fiction always does, it keeps coming into my mind and Barnes has handled these intricate and complex of themes in ways that can\u2019t do anything other than fascinate. ...more The eponymous Arthur is Arthur Conan Doyle, who is living in Edinburgh. George is the son of a Midlands vicar. The novel is set in late-Victorian Britain, and follows the lives of both boys through to adulthood. One follows Law, the other Medicine. One is a victim of a series of bizarre pranks; neither's destiny is what it first appears to be. For the first half of the book they are unaware of each other's existence. One experiences outrageous accusation, the other unrivalled success. One stands The eponymous Arthur is Arthur Conan Doyle, who is living in Edinburgh. George is the son of a Midlands vicar. The novel is set in late-Victorian Britain, and follows the lives of both boys through to adulthood. One follows Law, the other Medicine. One is a victim of a series of bizarre pranks; neither's destiny is what it first appears to be. For the first half of the book they are unaware of each other's existence. One experiences outrageous accusation, the other unrivalled success. One stands in the dock owing to a miscarriage of justice, whilst the other has the success he desired, but at a price. What is believed to be true may not be true. Faith, ambition, English reserve, honour, racism, self-recrimination and guilt all play a part. George Edalji has issues about his identity; he is a Parsee living in genteel Victorian society. How these two lives intertwine is intriguing and cleverly written, but there are passages about the mutilation of horses which are relentlessly cruel and upsetting. These may well be based on real-life events. The novel is pseudohistorical. This novel has a unique concept - that of following the life story of a famous celebrated writer, but giving equal weight to another person whose life history has been entirely forgotten. ...more I find reading about real-life miscarriages of justice very disturbing, particularly when they occur in a country with a well-developed legal system in which the rule of law prevails. They make interesting reading, though, and this account of an early 20th century miscarriage of justice is no exception. It's made all the more interesting by the involvement of the \u201cArthur\u201d of the title \u2013 Arthur Conan Doyle. The story should be better known, given its importance to the English legal system and the I find reading about real-life miscarriages of justice very disturbing, particularly when they occur in a country with a well-developed legal system in which the rule of law prevails. They make interesting reading, though, and this account of an early 20th century miscarriage of justice is no exception. It's made all the more interesting by the involvement of the \u201cArthur\u201d of the title \u2013 Arthur Conan Doyle. The story should be better known, given its importance to the English legal system and therefore to legal systems based on the English system. While Arthur Conan Doyle, needs no introduction, I\u2019d not heard of the \u201cGeorge\u201d of the title previously. He is George Edalji, an Anglo-Indian solicitor and son of a clergyman. The narrative, in alternating chapters, follows the lives of both men from childhood onwards. It\u2019s a well-written novel that in content, although not in style, reads like non-fiction. As far as I can gather from some cursory research on the interwebs, Barnes got the history right. Not much can be said about that history without going into spoilers. Suffice to say, the miscarriage of justice sees Edjali convicted or a crime he didn\u2019t commit and Doyle involved in a campaign to exonerate him. Those aspects of the narrative were quite enough to ensure that the lawyer in me remained interested. However, this is also in effect a biography of Conan Doyle. I\u2019ve read my fair share of Sherlock Holmes stories, but I\u2019m not a die-hard fan and I wouldn't have gone out of my way to read a conventional biography of their author. There was a section in the middle of the book \u2013 dealing, if I remember correctly, with Conan Doyle\u2019s marital woes \u2013 that I found less then totally compelling, but still interesting enough. I\u2019ve not read Barnes before, although I\u2019ve always meant to. I liked his prose a lot. I also liked the narrative structure, the evocation of time and place and the manner in which the two central characters are developed. However, in this case, it\u2019s the book for me, rather than the author. While I don\u2019t see myself racing off to read Barnes\u2019 entire oeuvre, I very much enjoyed reading this sample of it. Anyone with an interest in the legal system will probably have a similar reaction. ...more I give five stars sparingly, so I was torn between giving and \"four\" and a \"five\" here. Ultimately, though, when I considered that I'd put aside all other tasks one weekend to devote to finishing this book, I decided that this was five-star material. The last book I'd read by Barnes, England, England was a bit of a disappointment -- it came off, it seemed to me, like second-rate Tom Sharpe. But this book was a different matter. I especially liked the way it unfolded, alternating from one central I give five stars sparingly, so I was torn between giving and \"four\" and a \"five\" here. Ultimately, though, when I considered that I'd put aside all other tasks one weekend to devote to finishing this book, I decided that this was five-star material. The last book I'd read by Barnes, England, England was a bit of a disappointment -- it came off, it seemed to me, like second-rate Tom Sharpe. But this book was a different matter. I especially liked the way it unfolded, alternating from one central character to the other, shedding light on both in the process. I resisted going to the Internet to see if in fact Barnes had created the George character, and when, after finishing the book, I read that George was based on a real person, the creation of the character seemed even more impressive. There's a realism underpinning the book that speaks to -- how shall I put this? -- more mature audiences. Let's just say after fifty or so, a more measured approach to life emerges, and as such (speaking personally here), there's less patience with relentlessly upbeat or rosily romantic themes. Arthur and George resonates on a variety of levels, not the least of which is a clear-eyed appraisal of the nature of relationships - personal, romantic, and family. Finally, those interested in the late Victorian and Edwardian periods will be struck by how effortlessly Barnes puts the reader into that milieu. ...more What a great premise for a work of historical fiction. Take a larger-than-life figure known to all, make him larger still, and overlay his story on top of one with little fame but deserving of more. The acclaimed character was Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who turned out to be even more intriguing than his detective stories would suggest. From early days in Mam\u2019s kitchen listening to chivalric tales of adventure, to heroics in sports and at war, Arthur liked thinking of himself as an honorable knight What a great premise for a work of historical fiction. Take a larger-than-life figure known to all, make him larger still, and overlay his story on top of one with little fame but deserving of more. The acclaimed character was Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who turned out to be even more intriguing than his detective stories would suggest. From early days in Mam\u2019s kitchen listening to chivalric tales of adventure, to heroics in sports and at war, Arthur liked thinking of himself as an honorable knight of the realm. Sherlock, if anything, is downplayed in this account while the events ultimately connecting Arthur to George are brought to the fore. Without tripping the spoiler alarm, I can say that George had a more stolid, less imaginative life growing up in a vicarage. His small bit of fame made quite a story, though. And thanks to Arthur, post-Victorian England came to know it. And thanks to <---A>Julian Barnes</---A>, we\u2019ve come to know it, too. Barnes made the telling seem so effortless. He evoked the more formal era, but in a readable way. What\u2019s more, he gave the characters plausible words and thoughts. It was well researched, clearly, often using personal letters as sources. The only reason I take a star away from an otherwise fabulous book is that an extrapolation in George\u2019s thoughts at the end didn\u2019t ring true for me. I strongly recommend 99.8% of this book, and I thank the astute Anglophile I married for recommending it to me. ...more What is better, a so-so book with a great ending, or a good book with a disappointing one? The latter for me, but I was let down, after enjoying this story all the way through, to have it end with such a whimper. Later I read that the story was true all the way, which did make me more understanding. It is about a miscarriage of justice in the early 20th century. George, a young solicitor of Indian origin, is falsely accused of killing a slew of horses in his area, and convicted. His defense is p What is better, a so-so book with a great ending, or a good book with a disappointing one? The latter for me, but I was let down, after enjoying this story all the way through, to have it end with such a whimper. Later I read that the story was true all the way, which did make me more understanding. It is about a miscarriage of justice in the early 20th century. George, a young solicitor of Indian origin, is falsely accused of killing a slew of horses in his area, and convicted. His defense is poor and both the police, legal establishment and jury is clearly racist. Later, after he has served his sentence but is prevented from going back to his profession, he appeals to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who enthusiastically takes up his case and gets him a pardon, though not as complete a one as a modern reader would like. We follow both Arthur and George from the beginning of their lives and become very attached to them as characters, which is why the lack of a ringing resolution is a let down. Also, various elements are not satisfactorily tied up, and the last scene is a kind of public seance that was held after Sir Arthur's death (he was a great believer in spiritualism, or spiritism, as he called it) and I couldn't figure out what it had to do with the main thrust of the book. But, as I said, that is a disadvantage of not being able to move away from facts. It was a wry, compassionate, often witty book and you come to care for the characters very much. ...more \u201cArthur and George\u201d, my fourth book by Julian Barnes, adopts a four-part structure and spans four hundred pages. I am, for the fourth time, impressed with his consummate skills in crafting intelligent, well-researched, beautifully written, and perfectly executed stories. With Barnes I know I can expect to be engaged by a good story and walk away with a greater awareness of what makes us human. Set in late 19th century England, \u201cArthur and George\u201d is a magnificent pastiche of a real detective sto \u201cArthur and George\u201d, my fourth book by Julian Barnes, adopts a four-part structure and spans four hundred pages. I am, for the fourth time, impressed with his consummate skills in crafting intelligent, well-researched, beautifully written, and perfectly executed stories. With Barnes I know I can expect to be engaged by a good story and walk away with a greater awareness of what makes us human. Set in late 19th century England, \u201cArthur and George\u201d is a magnificent pastiche of a real detective story. Arthur is none other than Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the author who gave the world its much loved detective, Sherlock Holmes. Can the creator of Holmes solve a crime for real? Drawing upon authentic letters, newspaper quotations, government reports and proceedings in Parliament, Barnes introduced us to a legal case that made history but that few knew. In 1906, Arthur, a medical doctor by training, investigated a closed court case that led to the exoneration of George Edalji, a half-Scottish and half Indian lawyer, who was sentenced to seven years of penal servitude for writing threatening letters and mutilating animals in Great Wyrley. The case of George Edalji ostensibly paved the way for the eventual setting up of the Court of Appeals. (If you intend to read this novel, this is a good place to stop reading this review.) (view spoiler) [The story of Arthur and George is told alternately, like two separate train tracks, before they are skillfully and seamlessly merged. Parts I and II proceed very slowly as the distinct background of Arthur and George is fleshed out and offer the reader a grasp of their core identity. This is important as the strength of this story rests on our confidence in the integrity of the key characters, particularly George. In Barnes\u2019 good hands, I derived much pleasure from being immersed in what life was like in Victorian England. I was entertained as well as horrified by anecdotes of the young boys\u2019 school years. How dreadful to be young George in Mr. Bostock\u2019s classroom where a pupil\u2019s seating position is made to correlate with his performance \u2013 smart boys in front, dull boys behind. Poor George is seated in the back row. That is until his severe myopia opens the way to a front seat. And then because he can finally see, he is for the first time able to learn. Arthur\u2019s classes with the Jesuit priests are not any less terrifying with lessons \u201cendorsed by emphatic beatings.\u201d An especially delightful account relates to young Arthur\u2019s mother. I thought it lovely to attribute Arthur\u2019s magnetic storytelling gift to his Mam who has regaled him with stories of knights and their chivalrous exploits while stirring his porridge. In time, young Arthur\u2019s ability to spin a good yarn gains him popularity with his peers, pastries, and apples. We are told \"Thus he discovered the essential connection between narrative and reward.\" Part III that centers on the Edalji case and drives the plot makes for compelling reading. I had difficulty putting the book down. What is the motive behind the vicious attacks to frame an innocent man? Why would a mild-mannered man with few acquaintances have enemies bent on ruining his career and reputation? Is it racially motivated? How ludicrous that he is convicted in the absence of evidence, motivation, and opportunity for him to commit the crimes of which he has been accused. The suspense and tension surrounding the mysteries of the shady dealings are very well sustained and by the time Sir Arthur Doyle enters the picture, expectations for George Edalji\u2019s deliverance are raised to a feverish pitch. With Barnes, however, I surmise that this is more than the retelling of a detective story. In my view, this novel is an exploration of the theme of perception and its implications for human judgment and behavior. Interestingly, Sir Arthur is an ophthalmologist; George is \"as blind as the proverbial bat\". Sir Arthur has eyes afforded by his medical training to judge rightly at his first meeting with George. In his own words, \"I do not think. I do not believe. I know.\" On the other hand, the police and the legal system perceive George as a half-caste, and attribute blame to the pull of his Parsee blood. On another level, Sir Arthur\u2019s heavy involvement in spiritualism too taps into a different kind of perception that presumably cannot be accessed safe by faith in a farther reality. In the foreground is Edalji\u2019s legal woes; in the background is Sir Arthur\u2019s love story. It raises questions about what it means to live a life of chivalry and honor. Three years after Touie, his wife, becomes terminally ill, Sir Arthur falls in love with Jean Leckie. Arthur conducts himself as honorably as he can in his relationship with Jean; their meetings are carefully planned and kept chaste. Jean is his \"mystical wife\" while his wife lives. As I have learned from reading \u201cLevels of Life\u201d, few authors write about the complexities of love with as much understanding and empathy as Barnes. Sir Arthur himself is aware of the slippery slope from honor to dishonor. He keeps his rendezvous with Jean away from the glare of the public, but admits to having \u201cconfused safety with honour.\" The love story aside, most moving of all, of course, is the grit and tenacity with which Sir Arthur goes about clearing George\u2019s good name \u2013 a testament to true honor. Finally, \u201cArthur and George\u201d is a novel about being English. The root of Englishness, Sir Arthur believes, resides in \"the long-gone, long-remembered, long-invented world of chivalry.\" To him, it is \u201cthe prerogative of the powerful.\" It is gratifying to see this code upheld. (hide spoiler) ] Read \u201cArthur and George\u201d. Five noble stars. ...more Arthur and George, two men who come of age in England in what might be described as genteel poverty at the end of the 19th century, end up with radically different experiences of life. When their lives intersect, they quietly make history. In the hands of this literary master, <+++>Arthur & George</+++> became so much more than a novel of historical fiction or of criminal investigation. Barnes creates psychologically vivid and complex characters. An interesting plot is narrated in striking prose. \u2018A beautiful and engrossing work\u2019 The Independent on Sunday claims on the cover of my book, and I would absolutely have to agree. <+++>Arthur & George</+++> was the kind of book I felt immersed in, its scope being impressive, its authenticity alluring and its style \u2013 in Barnes\u2019s capable hands \u2013 a pleasure to spend hour after hour with. The title hints at a relationship between these two characters, but one which doesn\u2019t get under way until about a third of the way into the book, maybe more. I had purpos \u2018A beautiful and engrossing work\u2019 The Independent on Sunday claims on the cover of my book, and I would absolutely have to agree. Arthur & George was the kind of book I felt immersed in, its scope being impressive, its authenticity alluring and its style \u2013 in Barnes\u2019s capable hands \u2013 a pleasure to spend hour after hour with. The title hints at a relationship between these two characters, but one which doesn\u2019t get under way until about a third of the way into the book, maybe more. I had purposely read little about it beforehand, knowing only that the Arthur in the title was Arthur Conan Doyle, and that it was based on a real story. So I had expected something else, friendship perhaps, which it isn\u2019t quite. The less said the better, I feel, (if you haven\u2019t read it, that is) so suffice it to say that it is about how members of a community and of the local police force unfairly pin the blame of anonymous letters and horse mutilations on an innocent man, George, and how Arthur Conan Doyle eventually swoops in to show what he is made of, and to show British justice what it is made of, in the process bonding \u2013 for a while \u2013 with a man who likewise feels that he is \u2018an unofficial Englishman\u2019. I didn\u2019t immediately take to the book. It is long, in the beginning too long, I felt, but as I neared the point of convergence between Arthur and George, I realized that the long intro was necessary as background for what was to follow. I felt Barnes didn\u2019t want to sacrifice authenticity or character development for narrative speed, but I likewise suspect it might deter younger readers, or readers who prefer a good, plot-driven yarn, which it only partly turned into about half way through. After that mid-way point, or a bit before probably, I found it difficult to put the book down. I have to say, though, that it helped being interested in Conan Doyle in the first place, which I was, and even more so because I had recently read some Sherlock Holmes stories. Barnes paints a sympathetic but complex picture of both main characters, and that is one of the major strengths of the book. Based on real documents, letters, newspaper articles etc., much of it is real, but much is made up and felt, to me, just as credible. I absolutely loved some of the conversations that took place between Arthur and George or between Arthur and the intelligent but prejudiced Captain Anson, and there were many places where I was touched at the lengths Conan Doyle would go to in the name of justice. Yet we are also told of his guilt when he falls in love with another woman, despite being married, and how he feels manacled to his own creation, Sherlock Holmes. Although the plot of the book surrounds the accusations, the trial and the repercussions, the theme is not only about the miscarriage of justice but also about how two extremely different lives and personalities came to meet, how they both felt marginalized in England despite the fame of one and the (unfair) infamy of the other, and \u2013 since it is Barnes \u2013 about death and the possible or impossible life in the hereafter. We are shown how Conan Doyle was a believer of spiritism, and how George was not, yet towards the end, before George says a final goodbye to Sir Arthur, he thinks this: \"But when you stood in Hyde Park on a warm summer\u2019s afternoon among thousands of other human beings, few of whom were probably thinking about being dead, it was less easy to believe that this intense and complex thing called life was merely some chance happening on an obscure planet, a brief moment of light between two eternities of darkness. At such a moment it was possible to feel that all this vitality must continue somehow, somewhere.\" Given Barnes\u2019s preoccupation with death in other books I\u2019ve read by him, I wonder if it isn\u2019t his own uncertainties he is voicing here (cf. the fury of the resurrected atheist in his Nothing to be Frightened of). Arthur & George was shortlisted for the Booker Prize and was, to me, more satisfying to read than The Sense of an Ending, which won it, but really, I am left feeling that Barnes can take on most topics and most forms. I am in awe of his writing. 4,5 stars ...more \"If a man cannot tell what he wants to do, then he must find out what he ought to do.\" I have tried reading non-fiction books many times but have never been able to go through one entirely. I would read them if there were more of them like Arthur and George, if more authors wrote like Julian Barnes, and if those books told me stories and were not merely compilation of facts. I loved how this book was written, how Arthur and George's lives were fleshed out, how I could really sympathise with Georg \"If a man cannot tell what he wants to do, then he must find out what he ought to do.\" I have tried reading non-fiction books many times but have never been able to go through one entirely. I would read them if there were more of them like Arthur and George, if more authors wrote like Julian Barnes, and if those books told me stories and were not merely compilation of facts. I loved how this book was written, how Arthur and George's lives were fleshed out, how I could really sympathise with George's simple, yet proud; intelligent, yet naive; character. Arthur, who was as big a celebrity in those times as he is reverred now, seemed completely a person you could relate to, for most of the book. He was not ambitious, but active; with- as the author says- a right proportion of generosity and practicality. My opinion may be biased because of the English background, but the book commented upon many problems and dysfunctions of bureaucracy, which are relevant in my country as well (given that it once was under colonial rule). Apart from this, the author has touched religion, relationships, detective work, and more things, in just the right proportion. Two people were born and grew up and came alive in these few hundred pages, and I got attached to them. This is one of those books that remind me why I read books. ...more Piacevolissima lettura, indubbiamente indicata per chi ama le biografie in generale e per gli estimatori di Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in particolare. Julian Barnes conduce qui un duplice lavoro di ricostruzione: da un lato la vita del celeberrimo creatore di Sherlock Holmes, in parte gi\u00e0 nota a tutti, e dall\u2019altro quella assai pi\u00f9 modesta e quieta, ma non per questo meno interessante, di George Edalji, avvocato di origini indiane, che sub\u00ec un\u2019ingiustizia nelle aule britanniche e che Doyle si impegn Piacevolissima lettura, indubbiamente indicata per chi ama le biografie in generale e per gli estimatori di Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in particolare. Julian Barnes conduce qui un duplice lavoro di ricostruzione: da un lato la vita del celeberrimo creatore di Sherlock Holmes, in parte gi\u00e0 nota a tutti, e dall\u2019altro quella assai pi\u00f9 modesta e quieta, ma non per questo meno interessante, di George Edalji, avvocato di origini indiane, che sub\u00ec un\u2019ingiustizia nelle aule britanniche e che Doyle si impegn\u00f2 a raddrizzare. Anzi, direi che la voce di George \u00e8 quella che ho gradito di pi\u00f9. Di giorno in giorno e di fatto in fatto, il lettore segue l\u2019evolversi delle loro vicende, il loro breve incontro e il loro successivo allontanarsi, narrati con cura e attenzione alle fonti, bench\u00e9 romanzati. Una storia interessante. ...more update 31st of August 2015: Arthur & George Series - Premieres Sunday, Sept. 6, 2015 at 8/7c Not a typical Barnes, but a book in which the reader is maintained alert at all times. The author chose a famous English personality (Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) to be one of the main characters. He, investigated in a manner which can only be attributed to the witty Sherlock Holmes, a series of anonymous menacing letters followed by a great number of attacks on the cattle of a village very close to Birmin update 31st of August 2015: Arthur & George Series - Premieres Sunday, Sept. 6, 2015 at 8/7c Not a typical Barnes, but a book in which the reader is maintained alert at all times. The author chose a famous English personality (Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) to be one of the main characters. He, investigated in a manner which can only be attributed to the witty Sherlock Holmes, a series of anonymous menacing letters followed by a great number of attacks on the cattle of a village very close to Birmingham. The whole story is based on a real case and turned into fiction with the talent of such great a writer as Barnes. The flow of the action is very interesting in itself, but even more interesting is the recreation of the Victorian social and political realities, the view regarding women's rights to vote, how corrupted the British legal system was at that time and the prejudiced way in which police was finding scapegoats and penally punishing them. I enjoyed the story a lot, but I was expecting the ending to be different. It, together with all the mumble-jumble from the last chapter on clairvoyance and the public seance after Sir Arthur's death disappointed me and put a negative print on the whole book. Buuuut, this is just me, maybe other people would find this ending very rewarding. The 3 stars shown above are actually 3 stars and a half. ...more Beautifully written, the language kept me reading eagerly all the way through; however, this story is based on a true event in Arthur Conan Doyle's life and the ending, just like real-life endings, fizzled out. I wasn't really expecting a wrapped-up case like in a mystery novel, but I was left unsatisfied, wanting to know more. Which might not be a bad thing. I have Arthur Conan Doyle: A Life in Letters which I will read a little sooner than I had anticipated to try to to remedy this. Barnes does Beautifully written, the language kept me reading eagerly all the way through; however, this story is based on a true event in Arthur Conan Doyle's life and the ending, just like real-life endings, fizzled out. I wasn't really expecting a wrapped-up case like in a mystery novel, but I was left unsatisfied, wanting to know more. Which might not be a bad thing. I have Arthur Conan Doyle: A Life in Letters which I will read a little sooner than I had anticipated to try to to remedy this. Barnes doesn't really tell us much about ACD, or give us any real insights into his life, other than drawing out his courtship with his second wife for more pages than it was worth. , which brought the score to 3.5 stars. Further reflection leaves this at 3* ...more I like Julian Barnes; I like Arthur Conan Doyle; I like historicals. I therefore expected to like Julian Barnes' historical about Arthur Conan Doyle. Unfortunately I was disappointed. The book concerns Doyle's years-long effort to exonerate an Indian solicitor----George--- accused of cattle mutilations in rural England. Bizarre enough, right? It's told in the form of intertwining third-person biographies of the title characters. Surprisingly, neither is terribly interesting. Doyle's little known I like Julian Barnes; I like Arthur Conan Doyle; I like historicals. I therefore expected to like Julian Barnes' historical about Arthur Conan Doyle. Unfortunately I was disappointed. The book concerns Doyle's years-long effort to exonerate an Indian solicitor----George--- accused of cattle mutilations in rural England. Bizarre enough, right? It's told in the form of intertwining third-person biographies of the title characters. Surprisingly, neither is terribly interesting. Doyle's little known obsession with the occult just makes him appear more of a Victorian boob, and George is just sad. The plot, confined as it is to reality, plods along through the arcana of 19th century British jurisprudence and as in life never comes to a satisfactory conclusion. As I say, I wanted to like this book, and I'm sorry I didn't. ...more Julian Barnes is always entertaining and all of his books are very different. This is one of the most compulsively readable and centres on the stories of George Edalji, a British Indian lawyer who was the victim of a notorious miscarriage of justice, and Arthur Conan Doyle who campaigned to overturn the conviction. Intelligent, educational and highly enjoyable. Old review from 2006 Way outside of my normal range of reading here, but hey, that's what the Christmas book stack is all about. Apparently it's a pseudohistorical novel about Arthur Conan Doyle , George Edalji , and the 'Great Wyrly Outrage' animal mutilation hearings. In turn-of-the-century Britain, they lacked the foresight to blame such things on aliens from outer space, so they instead turned their suspicions upon the home-grown variety. I have this problem with most non-genre fiction. If a boo Old review from 2006 Way outside of my normal range of reading here, but hey, that's what the Christmas book stack is all about. Apparently it's a pseudohistorical novel about Arthur Conan Doyle , George Edalji , and the 'Great Wyrly Outrage' animal mutilation hearings. In turn-of-the-century Britain, they lacked the foresight to blame such things on aliens from outer space, so they instead turned their suspicions upon the home-grown variety. I have this problem with most non-genre fiction. If a book doesn't amuse me, entertain me, but still doesn't offend me in some way, I generally consider it as a sort of puzzle. It's a dumb way to think about fiction, and never a satisfactory one (unless I'm reading a mystery, and then I'm back in Genreland), but that's what I do. I suppose that's some kind of pseudo-scientific instinct surfacing. With that out of the way, here's my attempt at explaining why Arthur and George deserve fictional examination on the same docket. Their lives don't cross currents until late in the book, so we consider them predominantly in parallel, George in present tense and Arthur in past. Arthur is large ebullient, extravagant, athletic, opinionated, successful, wealthy. George is small, quiet, restrained, of Parsee extraction, not given to bluster, accused, convicted, the son of a vicar, a man of modest means and modest needs. They both, though, seem to believe in some arch logic governing their lives, governing all lives. For George, it is the word of law, of rules. Not morals or ideals, really, but of their projections into governance and bureaucracy. Arthur's particular framework is a sort of updated chivalric nobility: perfection of mind and body, duty, respect toward women, relentless pursuit of justice, etc. I don't know how much Barnes has injected himself here, but one imagines quite a bit, at least in the case of George, whose only imprints on written history are most likely court transcripts and his obscure treatise on railway law. So let's assume these similarities are fabricated, and therefore expressed with intent. Drama stems from the challenges to their guiding principles, and how they respond. Law fails George when provincial prejudices and subtle rhetoric (the antithesis of law?) conspire to find him guilty of maiming livestock when he did not (we assume). Arthur's honor bears assault by the chronic but less than fatal illness that strikes his plain-minded wife, and a vibrant and witty new love. His honor and his feelings become irreconcilable, but he attempts the trick nonetheless by hiding his new affair from no one but his wife, while refusing to consummate the affair with anything but the intangibles. It's odd. Despite imprisonment, public disgrace, and the staggering injustice George suffers, he seems to fare better than Arthur. He begins as an odd, boring, but ultimately good person, and remains one through everything. There's no teary breakdown for George, no fiery eruption of true self upon the complete erosion of his defenses. He doesn't lose faith in the law, just thinks it needs some tweaking, some calk and a better door handle. Arthur's faith in honor also remains intact, but oddly twisted. Years of deceiving his wife take their toll on both of his relationships, straining them, forcing him to doubt them. When his wife dies, his choices remain difficult. When to marry again? How honest to be about it? How to bridge the old lie into the new truth? In the process he becomes convinced of the scientific validity of spiritualism, which might just be in character, or could be a symptom, I don't know. I know that didn't make a lot sense. But new words do! Words coir (n): fiber from the outer husk of a coconut. p.106 cockstand (n): undoubtedly slang for an erection, but not in the dictionary. Googling it brings up several references to erotic letters penned by James Joyce. p. 166 assegai (n): a kind of South African spear, or the tree from which this spear would be made. p. 167 wold (n): a high, open moor. p. 180 rumbustious (adj): boisterous or unruly. p. 193 adduce (v): to cite as evidence p. 216 traduce (n): to speak poorly of or lie about a person to damage their reputation. p. 258 a fortiori (adv. & adj.): used to express a conclusion for which there is stronger evidence than the existing one. p. 259 miscegenation (n): the interbreeding of races. p. 275 ...more Prior to reading this book I knew very little about Arthur Conan Doyle except that he quickly tired of Sherlock Holmes, killed him off, had to revive him in response to popular demand, and spent the last part of his life devoted to spiritualism. This is a fascinating and psychologically complex novel showing what seems to be an accurate image of the man, paired in alternate chapters with a similar depiction of George Edalji, a Parsi lawyer from Staffordshire, who because of his strangeness and s Prior to reading this book I knew very little about Arthur Conan Doyle except that he quickly tired of Sherlock Holmes, killed him off, had to revive him in response to popular demand, and spent the last part of his life devoted to spiritualism. This is a fascinating and psychologically complex novel showing what seems to be an accurate image of the man, paired in alternate chapters with a similar depiction of George Edalji, a Parsi lawyer from Staffordshire, who because of his strangeness and skin color was arrested, railroaded, convicted, and sentenced to seven years hard labor for a crime of which he was obviously innocent. Getting him a free pardon was one of Conan Doyle's many do-good causes during the latter part of his life, and it takes up most of the latter half of the book. But even more interesting to me than the fascinating and excruciating detail of Edalji's arrest and trial was the depiction of Edwardian life. I've always been dismissive of Conan Doyle's interest in spiritualism, but here it is put in the context of late 19th century science: Alfred Russel Wallace, the friend and co-discoverer of natural selection with Charles Darwin was a believer, as was William Crookes, \"the man whose work in physics and chemistry is everywhere admired for its precision and truth. The man who discovered thallium, who spent years investigating the properties of rarefied gases and rare earths...Science is leading the way, and will bring the scoffers low as it always does. For who would have believed in radio waves? Who would have believed in X-rays? Who would have believed in argon and helium and neon and xenon, all of which have been discovered in the last years? The invisible and the impalpable, which lie just below the surface of the real, just beneath the skin of things, are increasingly being made visible and palpable.\" I was also surprised at Conan Doyle's Edwardian sense of masculine honor and decorum--he had a mistress for nearly 10 years while his wife was slowly dying of tuberculosis, but he never had sex with her until they finally married a decorous year after his first wife's death. The author makes this entirely believable, even to an early 21st century reader steeped in an environment of casual sex. I'm now much more able to believe that Charles Dickens may never have had sex with Ellen Ternan, in spite of his desperate love for her. Everywhere this book seemed thorough, sensitive, and even-handed, showing both main characters \"warts and all.\" And it was also an exciting page-turner. ...more Well, I loved this. Part of the joy of reading it was having zero idea before starting what it was about. I didn't know anything. And this being my third Barnes novel, I unprepared for an ending like this one. Which I loved. I'm not saying anything about it in case there's anyone else out there who likes to read without any advance influence. Gonna miss it. I couldn't decide whether this book fell under the \"loved it\" or \"it was amazing\" category. I finally settled on \"loved it\" but only because I want to try (try) to keep my \"it was amazing\" books to an exclusive few. However, I must say that I was amazed by the book. Barnes writing was smooth and effortless to read. At the same time it was penetrating, and he could articulate feelings and contradictions with clarity. The story was wonderful. It is about Arthur Conan Doyle, the creator of Sherlock I couldn't decide whether this book fell under the \"loved it\" or \"it was amazing\" category. I finally settled on \"loved it\" but only because I want to try (try) to keep my \"it was amazing\" books to an exclusive few. However, I must say that I was amazed by the book. Barnes writing was smooth and effortless to read. At the same time it was penetrating, and he could articulate feelings and contradictions with clarity. The story was wonderful. It is about Arthur Conan Doyle, the creator of Sherlock Holmes, and George Edalji, a wrongly convicted solicitor. The book gives a great narrative about Doyle's youth and adulthood. I found the psuedo-biography fun and enlightening. Though the book is fiction, I'm sure that some of how Barnes characterized Doyle was accurate. I think one reason I enjoyed this book was because of Barnes' depiction of Edalji's legal mind and of Doyle's Victorian mind. I loved how George would analyze things thoroughly and then cross examine himself. It didn't get in the way of the story for me to have the characters constantly feeling strongly one way only to then convince themselves that they were wrong. On the contrary, that is one of the reasons I loved this book. Personally, I think this book, a finalist for the Man Booker Prize in 2005, was better than Banville's The Sea and Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go . Banville won the Booker, and it is rumored Ishiguro's came in a close second. But Arthur and George was much better than either of them. ...more This is one of those times I want to give 4.5 stars. This is a complex, multi leveled, engaging book of historical fiction. We follow Arthur from childhood through death (that's Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) and George, an East Indian-English Vicar's son who is raised to be a sound person of character and a solicitor. Being a huge fan of Sir Doyle, I was surprised and delighted when I discovered who the young Arthur was. I try not to read the flyleaf summaries or long winded reviews until after I've r This is one of those times I want to give 4.5 stars. This is a complex, multi leveled, engaging book of historical fiction. We follow Arthur from childhood through death (that's Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) and George, an East Indian-English Vicar's son who is raised to be a sound person of character and a solicitor. Being a huge fan of Sir Doyle, I was surprised and delighted when I discovered who the young Arthur was. I try not to read the flyleaf summaries or long winded reviews until after I've read a recommended book because they just give too much away. I can barely name all the thematic insights written into this book. Love, hate, survival, class, castes, racism, English hierarchy, identity, honor, truth and lies. (enough). It dragged a little in the middle but the beginning and end are well worth the read. I could not predict how I would feel about any character from chapter to chapter and revelation was always subtle and slow. No big Sherlock Holmes type discovery here. I find Julian Barnes to be a great writer but he's always a bit aloof for me to adore him. However, you are missing a unique view of the world if you don't read this. Definitely don't speed read it or you'll miss the point completely. ...more Well-written, feel good novel about a classic author and a misunderstood loner, taken into the world of late-victorian coming of age/courtroom drama/mystery. Is it just me, or are recent books taking on as many hats as they possibly can afford? I have to compare this one to Dan Simmons's Drood in a few ways... but of course this one is very much lighter to digest. Quite enjoyable. Not the worst book I've ever read, but I had high expectations going into it and unfortunately I was let down. I think this is because I found the book to be very slow going and filled with many unnecessary details. Although a fictional telling based on real events, I think that some of the information could have been condensed. ARTHUR & GEORGE. (2011). Julian Barnes. *****. This is a marvelously written novel about two very different men, Arthur and George (duh). Arthur turns out to be Arthur Conan Doyle, and George is George Edalji. Do not be put off by the beginning of this novel, where the author fleshes out his two men using the see-saw technique that seems so popular these days. Once through this, the story can really begin. Basically, it is the tale of the righting of an injustice towards a man, George, wrong ARTHUR & GEORGE. (2011). Julian Barnes. *****. This is a marvelously written novel about two very different men, Arthur and George (duh). Arthur turns out to be Arthur Conan Doyle, and George is George Edalji. Do not be put off by the beginning of this novel, where the author fleshes out his two men using the see-saw technique that seems so popular these days. Once through this, the story can really begin. Basically, it is the tale of the righting of an injustice towards a man, George, wrongfully accused of a crime that he did not commit, but judged guilty and sentenced to a term in prison. It was only when Sir Arthur learned of the case that any action was taken to look into the case further. The details of the case \u2013 mostly based on true events \u2013 are made clear, along with new evidence discovered by Doyle, achieve a clarity that they never had when presented as evidence in the trial. Doyle\u2019s championing of this case ultimately led to a significant change in England\u2019s judicial system that persists to this day. I can\u2019t say a lot more about the story without giving away, but Mr. Barnes\u2019s skillful writing allows the reader to participate in the interaction of these two men and in the work done by Doyle \u2013 acting much like his ficional detective \u2013 to move forward with George\u2019s case. This is a riveting book that justly won the Booker prize this year. Highly recommended. ...more 4.5/5 This was a very good, singular book. Now, I've seen many reviews that were disappointed with the ending. I believe that it was a decent one, given the circumstances and the persisting mystery of it all. The author's note helped clear things up, so one would be advised to read that if the conclusion was unsatisfying. As for the whole of the work. It was a fantastic cross section of English life at the time, detailing the lives of two very different men with very different views of the world, 4.5/5 This was a very good, singular book. Now, I've seen many reviews that were disappointed with the ending. I believe that it was a decent one, given the circumstances and the persisting mystery of it all. The author's note helped clear things up, so one would be advised to read that if the conclusion was unsatisfying. As for the whole of the work. It was a fantastic cross section of English life at the time, detailing the lives of two very different men with very different views of the world, which came clearest during their collisions and views of each other. It was fascinating to get a taste of the background of the author of Sherlock Holmes, to see how greatly the character affected the author in reputation as well as in mannerisms. Not to mention the whole mystery of the book, which crept up in a slow unrelenting fashion until the reader's mind was consumed; never realizing the shift from daily life observations and meandering thoughts to detective work and rampant cross-firing of rival opinions. The strings of logic and reasoning were laid out in a smooth and steady manner, and never hindered nor unreasonably sped up the general pace of the story. I would have to say, if people choose not to read this book because they read the reviews detailing the unsatisfactory ending, they are definitely missing out on a most unique mystery, interwoven with life and patterns of thought and a current of analysis that starts with a body and ends with a spirit. ...more I don't go for whodunnits so much, mostly because I have such a poor head for plot that by the time the mystery is revealed, I've long forgotten who these people are that are now being identified as the criminals. This piece of historical fiction is no different in that regard, but the mystery of who committed the crime is only a small part of what Barnes is trying to do. The other topics that the book tackles--changing definitions of masculinity and honor in early 20th century England, the strug I don't go for whodunnits so much, mostly because I have such a poor head for plot that by the time the mystery is revealed, I've long forgotten who these people are that are now being identified as the criminals. This piece of historical fiction is no different in that regard, but the mystery of who committed the crime is only a small part of what Barnes is trying to do. The other topics that the book tackles--changing definitions of masculinity and honor in early 20th century England, the struggles of the child of an immigrant to overcome prejudice, and the writer's life, to name three--are fascinating and handled expertly. During the time I read this book, I saw both No Country for Old Men and, more to the point, In the Valley of Elah . Tommy Lee Jones basically plays the same kind of man in both, but I really appreciate the work he's doing to document a kind of masculinity that will probably be all but gone in 20 years. Arthur and George also handles the passing of a kind of masculinity and it's wonderful that Barnes can make that combination of loss and progress feel fresh even at a distance of 100 years. ...more This book reads more as a biography in which the principal characters, Arthur and George, are brought to life to paint a pivotal event in which their lives intersected. The novel swings between long chapters on either Arthur or George, with some minor characters intervening to provide relief. Arthur is Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the renowned creator of Sherlock Holmes, and George is George Edalji, the lawyer son of a Parsee vicar and a Scottish mother. Their stories converge late into the book when This book reads more as a biography in which the principal characters, Arthur and George, are brought to life to paint a pivotal event in which their lives intersected. The novel swings between long chapters on either Arthur or George, with some minor characters intervening to provide relief. Arthur is Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the renowned creator of Sherlock Holmes, and George is George Edalji, the lawyer son of a Parsee vicar and a Scottish mother. Their stories converge late into the book when Arthur takes on George\u2019s case, a case which exposes the ills of racism that plagued Victorian and Edwardian England. Despite his mixed racial origins, George considers himself an Englishman, and so does Arthur whose roots are Irish and Scottish. They differ on religion with George being the pious and meek one and Arthur being the scientific type whose belief extends to the paranormal. While Arthur enjoys fame and fortune, George is subjected to a poison letter campaign, is accused of mutilating farm animals in his village and is sent to prison for three years on trumped up evidence. Arthur too, despite his better circumstances, lives in an emotional and sexual prison as his first wife Touie is suffering from consumption and is unable to perform her wifely duties. He is madly in love with the younger Jean, but has to keep the affair chaste and secret out of respect for his ailing wife. When Touie finally succumbs to her illness, a depressed Arthur looks for a cause to fire himself up and finds the George Edalji case befitting of a Sherlock Holmes type investigation. Reality mirrors fiction as Arthur and his assistant Wood play Holmes and Watson in re-opening the cold case (for by now, George has served his time and been released but is living with a criminal record which bars him from returning to his trade). Their Holmesian deductions and tampering with evidence jeopardizes the case and allows the Home Office to maintain that George deserved his \u201ctime\u201d but is also eligible for a pardon \u2013 in Arthur\u2019s irate words, \u201cThe great British solution has been applied. Something terrible has happened but nobody has done anything wrong. Nothing shall be anybody\u2019s fault, and especially not ours.\u201d The author concludes that much of the material contained in this book is factual, which left me wondering whether I would have had the patience to read this book if it had been about two unknown individuals and if I had not been such a fan of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Probably not, for the style is biographical, especially Arthur\u2019s segment, and the conclusion at the s\u00e9ance for the late Sir Arthur is anti-climactic and therefore the book does not come across as a novel, as it is claimed to be. And yet the prejudices, behaviour and practices of turn-of-the-last century England have been brought vividly to life by a writer who has obviously immersed himself in the history of that period and painstakingly drawn it with all its grace and imperfections. ...more The novel reflects the reserve of the English people. Insights are profound, and there is serious philosophical reflection, but it is all understated. For this reason, this novel is excellent for both people looking for an entertaining read, and people who expect an intellectual stimulation. Irony and astute observation make for a novel that is often incredibly funny. Barnes renders the cahracters in an endearing manner, I as a reader found myself immensely concerned with their outcomes. This wi The novel reflects the reserve of the English people. Insights are profound, and there is serious philosophical reflection, but it is all understated. For this reason, this novel is excellent for both people looking for an entertaining read, and people who expect an intellectual stimulation. Irony and astute observation make for a novel that is often incredibly funny. Barnes renders the cahracters in an endearing manner, I as a reader found myself immensely concerned with their outcomes. This with the charming style made this 500 page book a rather quick, engrossing read. Although it is, in part, a biography of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, you need not be a fan of Sherlock Holmes to enjoy this book. Nor do I agree with the novel being designated as a crime novel. Is there a crime to be solved? Yes, but the question is less one of a whodunnit? and more about questions regarding the very nature of guilt, innocence,perspective, and epistemological concerns. These themes are explored not only in the trial, but in the individual lives of the two main characters. Although the characters are plucked from real life history, the focus on honour and the names of the main characters call to mind two legendary British heroes in a way that help the book to transcend its designation as a historical novel (although the information on Victorian Britain will gladden a historical novel fan's heart). I must say though, that the last 50 pages of the book were far less enjoyable. The style that made the first 450 pages fly by seems to have been lost. The ending seems tacked on, superfluous. I suppose it still keeps in with the themes of truth and conviction, but the lackluster style ruins it and there is no real suspense left to keep the reader's attention. Do not let this dissuade you from reading the book, if anything just don't read the last section, because the rest of the novel is superb. ...more I knew going into this novel by Julian Barnes that it focused on the Scottish doctor-turned-author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and the Anglo-Indian solicitor George Edalji. Their very different lives intersected when Conan Doyle drew outraged attention to the wrongful conviction of Edalji for the series of horse and livestock mutilations known as the \"Great Wyrley Outrages\" of 1903. Edalji's case and Conan Doyle's championing of his cause helped lead to the creation of England's Court of Criminal App I knew going into this novel by Julian Barnes that it focused on the Scottish doctor-turned-author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and the Anglo-Indian solicitor George Edalji. Their very different lives intersected when Conan Doyle drew outraged attention to the wrongful conviction of Edalji for the series of horse and livestock mutilations known as the \"Great Wyrley Outrages\" of 1903. Edalji's case and Conan Doyle's championing of his cause helped lead to the creation of England's Court of Criminal Appeal in 1907. Barnes took this true story and drew from it two very sensitive and compelling character studies -- three, if you count that of the fictional Sherlock Holmes, whose shadow looms large over the text just as it did over his creator's life. Through these character studies, Barnes focuses on some very big ideas: the repercussions of reason and irrationality; our (in)fidelity to the rules we choose to live by; our willful blindness to those things we would prefer not to see. Conan Doyle and Edalji each emerges as an outsider and man of honor in his own way, though flawed. Barnes has a gift for understated and insightful prose. Even knowing what would happen to each man, I found myself fascinated by their story and the themes Barnes underscored in it. ...more I found this book to be very interesting indeed. It was historical fiction but felt more like a good and proper non-fiction account of these mens' experiences; a snapshot kind of biography. I was surprised to find that someone like Julian Barnes wrote something so precise because I thought he was more into comedy but hey, look, another Rennaisance man. This book is a wonderfully well written account of a true landmark case that happened in England to a misunderstood and very innocent Indian Engl I found this book to be very interesting indeed. It was historical fiction but felt more like a good and proper non-fiction account of these mens' experiences; a snapshot kind of biography. I was surprised to find that someone like Julian Barnes wrote something so precise because I thought he was more into comedy but hey, look, another Rennaisance man. This book is a wonderfully well written account of a true landmark case that happened in England to a misunderstood and very innocent Indian English man. The poor man was wrongly imprisoned for some ghastly animal killings and the resulting cry of outrage caught the attention of none other than Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. The victim, George, wrote to Arthur asking for help in clearing his name. The rest is history. There are, of course, subplots woven in skillfully that keep one turning pages. This book should please history buffs and Sherlockians alike. I certainly liked it. ...more This book drew me in immediately. Barnes tells the story of Arthur (Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) and George (George Edalji), two people whose lives intersect in a powerful way in the second half of the book. As with others of his books, Barnes packs a lot into a small package. In this case he brings to life the moral and ethical milieu/dilemmas of the Victorian era through Arthur and George's story. The story gradually unfolds, being told through alternating chapters focusing on one of the main chara This book drew me in immediately. Barnes tells the story of Arthur (Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) and George (George Edalji), two people whose lives intersect in a powerful way in the second half of the book. As with others of his books, Barnes packs a lot into a small package. In this case he brings to life the moral and ethical milieu/dilemmas of the Victorian era through Arthur and George's story. The story gradually unfolds, being told through alternating chapters focusing on one of the main characters. Before I knew it, I was completely immersed and couldn't put it down. Excellent and recommended! I listened to Arthur & George, outstandingly read by Nigel Anthony. I see a number of reviewers mention an unsatisfying ending, something about a seance. The audiobook had a very natural and satisfying conclusion to it and I now see it was abridged. I've ordered a print version from the library so I can see what I missed! ...more<---C>Julian Barnes</---C>", "Title": "Arthur & George"},
