{"Comments": "I generally look over other people's reviews to refresh myself before I add a book I read a long time ago. I was genuinely surprised to see how many people hated this book. It seems like people either got it and loved it (<---B>like me</---B>), or didn't get it and simply hated it.<---F> Admittedly, the story is far-fetched</---F>. You must suspend disbelief in order to swallow the premise of the story, which is of an impoverished Irish boy doomed to live forever until he is able to avenge a wrong done to his family. If y I generally look over other people's reviews to refresh myself before I add a book I read a long time ago. I was genuinely surprised to see how many people hated this book. It seems like people either got it and loved it (like me), or didn't get it and simply hated it. Admittedly, the story is far-fetched. You must suspend disbelief in order to swallow the premise of the story, which is of an impoverished Irish boy doomed to live forever until he is able to avenge a wrong done to his family. If you can wrap your mind around a little magic, then you can enjoy the book as it was intended; an intimate and colorful history of New York City. I learned so much,<---M> and it was written so well</---M>, I never felt I was being lectured to. This was honestly a book I wish hadn't had to end. I was so sorry to finish it. In fact, this is one I hope to re-read some day. ...more This was not the book that I expected it to be. Every plot summary of this novel describes it as a history of New York City as experienced by a man who is granted immortality only so long as he never leaves the island of Manhattan. Granted, that does happen, but first you have to slog through an annoying, practically-a-novel-in-and-of-itself three hundred pages of trifling back-story. That would have been fine if only it had been more interesting. Hamill seems to back himself into a corner with This was not the book that I expected it to be. Every plot summary of this novel describes it as a history of New York City as experienced by a man who is granted immortality only so long as he never leaves the island of Manhattan. Granted, that does happen, but first you have to slog through an annoying, practically-a-novel-in-and-of-itself three hundred pages of trifling back-story. That would have been fine if only it had been more interesting. Hamill seems to back himself into a corner with a curiously apathetic protagonist, Cormac O\u2019Connor, who goes about tracking down the man responsible for the deaths of his parents with all of the passion of a man running errands on his day off. After arriving in Manhattan he wastes time doing \u2026 nothing really. He learns a trade as a printer\u2019s apprentice, dabbles in a relationship that he doesn\u2019t seem too passionate about either, and agonizes about how he really kinda should be looking for his sworn enemy. Imagine Hamlet without any of Shakespeare\u2019s wit or dramatic urgency to redeem him and you have a pretty good idea of how frustrating Cormac is. The only thing he feels passionately about is fighting slavery, which ultimately \u2013 perhaps fatefully \u2013 leads to his gift / curse. That\u2019s another sticky point of this novel for me: there is no grey area when it comes to political issues such as slavery. All of the good guys possess an inexplicably modern perspective when it comes to social issues, while the villains are fierce racists who strive to use slavery to their own advantage. It\u2019s so simplistic, and not historically accurate. I find it hard to believe that people who were raised in a society where slavery and racism were so ingrained into the mainstream would instinctively know how to think outside the box. The historical aspect of the novel is often interesting when Hamill draws out episodes of history that are unfamiliar, such as the period when Manhattan\u2019s water supply was severely restricted by greedy bureaucrats in the 1830s (leading to city-wide pestilence and frequent cholera outbreaks), but it is less so when Hamill indulges in a lust for big cameos and cheesy set-ups, such as when Cormac saves General Washington\u2019s life during a skirmish at the onset of the American revolution, screaming \u201cWe need you alive, God damn you!\u201d (again, it seems, Cormac has been blessed with an unnatural prescience). And despite his ardor for throwing off the shack les of tyranny, Cormac engages in some pretty misogynistic relationships with women (his mandate for eternity in Manhattan even includes an order to \u201clove women,\u201d and while it also orders him to respect and protect them it still results in a series of non-emotionally attached relationships that essentially reduce the woman to the means for sex only). A lot of people seem to enjoy this book, and I suppose I can see why. What I offer here is a different perspective from someone who did not enjoy it \u2026 at all, really. Grade: D+ ...more This book had me from the first page. It starts in Ireland in the 1700s and takes us on a fantastic journey ending in New York in 2001. Through the protagonist's eyes we see the humble beginnings of New York City in its infancy and watch as it transforms over the centuries to the mighty metropolis it is today. Saying anything else would be spoiling. I certainly recommend this book if you are a New Yorker like me. It has been said that we are the most forgetful when it comes to our own history an This book had me from the first page. It starts in Ireland in the 1700s and takes us on a fantastic journey ending in New York in 2001. Through the protagonist's eyes we see the humble beginnings of New York City in its infancy and watch as it transforms over the centuries to the mighty metropolis it is today. Saying anything else would be spoiling. I certainly recommend this book if you are a New Yorker like me. It has been said that we are the most forgetful when it comes to our own history and this is an easy to read refresher on some of the major events that helped shape this place. I also feel any fan of the historical novel would appreciate this work. Just one warning however. There was, toward the end, a very vivid description of the events of 9/11 that actually made me feel like I was back in that awful day. The author really captures that \"present\" feeling throughout the book. You get a feeling that you are there walking through the different ages of the city as you read. This particular portion of the book was no exception. I liked it all the more for the author's ability to pull me back to that time and to truly remember. It is all we can do in the end. ...more I am a bit offended by the current \"number one\" review that says people either \"get\" this book or hate it. Just because I hate it does not mean I did not get it. A book that is about a man who lives forever is going to face challenges. It is either going to be epicly long or going to skim and jump without real depth, or some combination of the two. This book mostly jumped and skipped. This made it hard to become emotionally involved with the book. Because of this, I was planning to give the book I am a bit offended by the current \"number one\" review that says people either \"get\" this book or hate it. Just because I hate it does not mean I did not get it. A book that is about a man who lives forever is going to face challenges. It is either going to be epicly long or going to skim and jump without real depth, or some combination of the two. This book mostly jumped and skipped. This made it hard to become emotionally involved with the book. Because of this, I was planning to give the book two stars, until I got to the end. The biggest problem in this book is the focus on 9/11 at the end. I told my husband that it reads as if the author had the concept for the book and had been working on it for a while, and then 9/11 happened and the auther was affected by it personally and thought \"this HAS to be in my book, this would affect the characters so much!!\". Based on the year of publication (2002), and the biography of the author (born and raised in Brooklyn), I would say this assessment is dead on. <---A>Pete Hamill</---A> could have done us all a favor by having the concluding chapters in this book take place in 2000, and then writing another book to alleviate his feelings about 9/11. The problem is the first 500 pages are all about immortality and relationships and paganism and tribal ideas of justive and a deep sense of loss and belonging, and then all of the sudden the book is about 9/11 instead and modern issues and modern problems. There is no smooth transition or build up, it is just suddenly (and glaringly as some reviewers have pointed out), there. And that is why I could only give this book one star. ...more Part of my disappointment in Pete Hamill\u2019s \u201c<+++>Forever</+++>\u201d is probably based on the fact that I had different expectations when I began reading. There was an extremely misleading quote on the back cover comparing the book favorably to \"Lord of the Rings\" and \"Harry Potter\". I also expected the book to focus on New York City, which is does, but only well after a hundred pages based in Ireland. Okay. The book did have its good points. I thought the concept was fantastic: immortal man witnesses the evolut Part of my disappointment in Pete Hamill\u2019s \u201c<+++>Forever</+++>\u201d is probably based on the fact that I had different expectations when I began reading. There was an extremely misleading quote on the back cover comparing the book favorably to \"Lord of the Rings\" and \"Harry Potter\". I also expected the book to focus on New York City, which is does, but only well after a hundred pages based in Ireland. Okay. The book did have its good points. I thought the concept was fantastic: immortal man witnesses the evolution of a city. The characters were robust and intriguing. Hamill presented interesting, well-researched tidbits from New York City's history. (I especially loved the section set during the city's fetid period.) And although I wasn't expecting such an extended portion of the book to be set in Ireland, that section was actually my favorite. He really placed me in the setting with the mist rolling off the green fields and the mystical lore of the native Irish. He should have expanded this section and made it a separate book. That book might have earned four stars. Now, onto the bad points. It dragged and I had trouble finishing. In addition, the book abruptly jumps from one time setting to another. I would just start to be engaged in the storyline and to identify with the characters. Then, bam! There\u2019s an entirely new era, theme, and cast of characters. Instead of keeping things exciting, it annoyed me. He really needed transitions. And these mini-stories were treated differently by length. Some were short and some just went on and on, which made the book seem unbalanced. Furthermore, the plot suffered from this jarring jumps since the mini-stories are rather poorly connected. Of course, the main character did have two over-arching goals: to kill every descendant of his father\u2019s killer and to eventually reclaim his mortality. The second motivation pulled the story along admirably. But Hamill abandoned the revenge plot in a lame matter (I won\u2019t write more to avoid spoilers) only to halfheartedly reintroduce it much later in the story. It could have been so exciting! Lastly, I read in an interview that Hamill had actually finished the manuscript prior to 9/11 and then rewrote the ending to incorporate the attack. While I understand that 9/11 was a defining moment in the city\u2019s history, its integration into the book never sat well with me. It read like what it was - a last minute add-in I don\u2019t regret reading \u201cForever\u201d, but I would not recommend it to anyone I know. In fact, it is sitting in a pile of two-stars-or-less books to be traded at my local used bookstore. ...more Conceptually I liked this book, though it lost something in the execution. Exploring New York through the eyes of a single character *is* interesting, but in order to do it justice the book needed about 1,000 more pages (at least!). If this novel was a five book series--told more slowly--it would have worked much better. I found the 9/11 chapter a bit forced. There was way too much foreshadowing. We know what's ahead of us and yet the Hamill can't resist mentioning low flying planes and looming t Conceptually I liked this book, though it lost something in the execution. Exploring New York through the eyes of a single character *is* interesting, but in order to do it justice the book needed about 1,000 more pages (at least!). If this novel was a five book series--told more slowly--it would have worked much better. I found the 9/11 chapter a bit forced. There was way too much foreshadowing. We know what's ahead of us and yet the Hamill can't resist mentioning low flying planes and looming towers every fourth or fifth paragraph. Yeah, we get it Hamill...things are about to change... And, was it just me, or did all that sex stuff seem a little unnecessary? ...more I have mixed feelings about this novel. The beginning one third of the story was very captivating and moving. I thought the author did a great job with character development and drawing the reader into an intriguing plot laced with bits of Irish folklore and Celtic Mythology. Somewhere around the middle, however, the story began to drag for me and became quite overrun with characters to follow. An account that takes place over more than two centuries, ending after the events of 9/11/01, lends it I have mixed feelings about this novel. The beginning one third of the story was very captivating and moving. I thought the author did a great job with character development and drawing the reader into an intriguing plot laced with bits of Irish folklore and Celtic Mythology. Somewhere around the middle, however, the story began to drag for me and became quite overrun with characters to follow. An account that takes place over more than two centuries, ending after the events of 9/11/01, lends itself to far too many characters to develop and too much history to cover with detail. As the reader, I would be just getting familiar with the newest set of characters when time would jump ahead and the process would begin all over again. I truly was interested enough to finish the book, however, the last one third was extremely laborious to get through. An incredibly original plot and very descriptive narrative but a bit too much history to cover in 600 pages. It did lend itself to ponder the question of how difficult immortality for a single member of a family and a community would be. This is a fantasy, so the reader must suspend belief going into this. For lovers of the fantasy genre, this book will really appeal to you. For readers more interested in historical fiction, this would be quite a stretch. ...more Caution: spoilers. All in all an uneven read. Fun, if you aren't critical, but lots to take issue with. The main character is given the gift of eternal life, with conditions. The first quarter of the book which takes place in Ireland, is better, though a bit stereotypical of Irish culture. The plot sounds fun, but in truth makes the main character less than completely sympathetic. Somehow he manages to be consumed by revenge, yet is bland and boring. The sections of the book are vignettes of dif Caution: spoilers. All in all an uneven read. Fun, if you aren't critical, but lots to take issue with. The main character is given the gift of eternal life, with conditions. The first quarter of the book which takes place in Ireland, is better, though a bit stereotypical of Irish culture. The plot sounds fun, but in truth makes the main character less than completely sympathetic. Somehow he manages to be consumed by revenge, yet is bland and boring. The sections of the book are vignettes of different times in NYC, but don't have a consistency of writing. Hamill says he took back the completed book after the Trade Center disaster and added a section. In my opinion, that shows, the book would have been better without it. Deus ex machina rules in this book, with the main character saved from sure death by such interventions as a dolphin suddenly appearing, a magical horse, a raven, etc. Coincidence is too easy, such as that his final murder target just happens to have bought his father's historic sword, so it is handy, should he need to use it. And when he decides not to kill him, the guy dies in the World Trade Center disaster. The main figure just happens to save George Washington's life, has an affair with the historical person who betrayed the slave revolt (or just made it up). Women are generally one-dimensional, mostly whores or witches. He is supposed to be able to be released from his vow when he finds a certain special women, but the one he seems most enraptured with is Madam of a brothel, and she isn't the one. Its hard to understand why the woman who IS THE ONE, is very appealing, certainly not as interesting as some of the other women he beds down. The ending just ignores the main source of motivation, and makes no sense. The main character is supposed to be on an life(s) long search so he can enter the Otherworld, but when he get the chance, he doesn't do it. Hamill tries to rehabilitate historical figures like Boss Tweed, which is questionable at the very least, and has poor Irish and Blacks as allies in 18th century civil strife, while they were actually not at all... more like adversaries competing for the same low wage jobs. Women are basically for sex, and sometimes become traitors, blacks are the \"mystical negro\" trope, all either into voodoo, or have magical powers. Hamill is best at describing New York City's history. He puts light on some seldom known periods and events, as well as giving insight into the sounds, smells, and sights of old New York. A literature prof I know, was frustrated by Hamill's constant use of sentence fragments, and said the book \"is not great literature.\" On the other hand, if you are less critical and don't mind wading through over 600 pages of a repetitive fantasy, have fun. I hope Pete doesn't read this review, because he is a really great guy and a great writer, and I have all kinds of respect for him. But this book just didn't work for me. ...more The idea of a first-person account of the whole history of Manhattan was really intriguing to me, so I was really excited to read this book, and assumed that the whole \"you're immortal but you can't leave Manhattan\" thing was just a weird plot device in order to make this first-person narrative make sense. Instead, the opposite seemed to be true: the history of Manhattan seemed to be just a setting for the whole strange spiritual-mythological side of the story. That said, I loved the first 1/3 o The idea of a first-person account of the whole history of Manhattan was really intriguing to me, so I was really excited to read this book, and assumed that the whole \"you're immortal but you can't leave Manhattan\" thing was just a weird plot device in order to make this first-person narrative make sense. Instead, the opposite seemed to be true: the history of Manhattan seemed to be just a setting for the whole strange spiritual-mythological side of the story. That said, I loved the first 1/3 of the book, set in Ireland in the hero's 18th century childhood. The next portion, set in downtown Manhattan, also had a great point of view and was well-paced. Then there's this weird bit about Boss Tweed dying in jail that I didn't get. The whole last 1/3 of the book is set in 2000-2001 -- amidst flashbacks to the 20's and 30's that seemed like an afterthought -- and follows the hero finding and falling in love with his \"true love\" or whatever. This part was so bland, so drawn-out and detached, I plodded my way through it and found myself skipping paragraphs, then pages. Good lord. The book culminates with the World Trade Center attacks, the descriptions of which could have been written by any writing major at NYU (I'll throw him a few bones for the description of the dust cloud; that was okay). And the ending? Man, C'MON!! I know that Pete Hamill is known for his love of the history of New York, and I'd say that that's obvious in a good portion of this (rather large) book. I just wanted way more history and way less pseudo-romance and pseudo-spirituality/voodoo than this book delivered. ...more This book is truly a love letter to New York. Pete Hamill has taken a tantalizing idea \u2014 what would you do if you were granted immortality? \u2014 and envisions it through the eyes of an Irish teen, Cormac O'Connor. The book's highest points shine when Hamill documents real people and places in Manhattan. The reader comes along for the journey of New York growing from a wild village into one of the greatest cities on Earth. The disconnect occurs when Hamill describes the mythical happenings that take p This book is truly a love letter to New York. Pete Hamill has taken a tantalizing idea \u2014 what would you do if you were granted immortality? \u2014 and envisions it through the eyes of an Irish teen, Cormac O'Connor. The book's highest points shine when Hamill documents real people and places in Manhattan. The reader comes along for the journey of New York growing from a wild village into one of the greatest cities on Earth. The disconnect occurs when Hamill describes the mythical happenings that take place to ensure Cormac's immortality. It is rather jarring when in such a gritty, tangible setting as New York. Even though Cormac is free to roam the city and become different people for different lifetimes, there is a constant darkness in the book. His quest to kill is always in the background. Interestingly, Hamill finished the first version of this book on Sept. 10, 2001. The city \u2014 downtown especially \u2014 changed drastically the very next day, and Hamill intertwined 9/11 as an integral date in the story. It was extremely hard to read the chapters about Sept. 11, since they were very realistic and heartbreaking. Overall, this book is fantastic. Full of rich details, history and romance, anyone who loves New York should read this impressive saga. ...more How long does it take to find your true love? Is one lifetime enough? What do you do when you do find it? How do you answer life's challenges and choices? Cormac O'Conner is born in northern Ireland in 1723, loved and cherished by his parents, happy with his parents, dog, horse and home. His father is a blacksmith and makes a very special sword. When he is nine he loses his mother, when he is sixteen he loses his father. The Earl of Warren, who lives in Belfast near them, is indirectly responsibl How long does it take to find your true love? Is one lifetime enough? What do you do when you do find it? How do you answer life's challenges and choices? Cormac O'Conner is born in northern Ireland in 1723, loved and cherished by his parents, happy with his parents, dog, horse and home. His father is a blacksmith and makes a very special sword. When he is nine he loses his mother, when he is sixteen he loses his father. The Earl of Warren, who lives in Belfast near them, is indirectly responsible for both deaths. The Earl, who ships slaves, is quite wealthy and he leaves to America to make even more money. Cormac, who has money from his father and the sword, follows the Earl to America after promising to avenge the death of his father. Through acts of kindness to blacks who have been captured and are in the hold of the ship, Cormac is given the gift of almost eternal life as long he does not leave Manhattan. He needs to kill the Earl as he promised, and then he lives through nearly three hundred years of Manhattan history and makes choices he never expected to make. I liked this book a lot and recommend it. ...more This has to be one of my favorite books. While long, the book is well a written and captivating piece of historical fiction (although some of the descriptive bits can be a bit much). While I really enjoyed the story's plot, my favorite aspect of the book was the description of the changes in New York over generations - from the atmosphere of the streets right to the putrid smells that characterized New York for decades. \"This widely acclaimed bestseller is the magical, epic tale of an extraordin This has to be one of my favorite books. While long, the book is well a written and captivating piece of historical fiction (although some of the descriptive bits can be a bit much). While I really enjoyed the story's plot, my favorite aspect of the book was the description of the changes in New York over generations - from the atmosphere of the streets right to the putrid smells that characterized New York for decades. \"This widely acclaimed bestseller is the magical, epic tale of an extraordinary man who arrives in New York in 1740 and remains ... forever. Through the eyes of Cormac O'Connor - granted immortality as long as he never leaves the island of Manhattan - we watch New York grow from a tiny settlement on the tip of an untamed wilderness to the thriving metropolis of today. And through Cormac's remarkable adventures in both love and war, we come to know the city's buried secrets - the way it has been shaped by greed, race, and waves of immigration, by the unleashing of enormous human energies, and, above all, by hope.\" ...more I've been going through a homesick sort of thing lately and this book was like a drug. It's historical fiction that charts the history of New York City from circa 1740 through 2001 as lived and experienced by one main character. (You'll have to suspend your disbelief regarding the necessary fantasy element of this because the book itself is wonderful). The author, Pete Hamill, is impressive in his dedication to providing endless historically accurate details about the city he adores (this is esp I've been going through a homesick sort of thing lately and this book was like a drug. It's historical fiction that charts the history of New York City from circa 1740 through 2001 as lived and experienced by one main character. (You'll have to suspend your disbelief regarding the necessary fantasy element of this because the book itself is wonderful). The author, Pete Hamill, is impressive in his dedication to providing endless historically accurate details about the city he adores (this is especially powerful if the reader (me) happens to adore it too), while still maintaining an interesting plot. A main character who is almost three centuries old surely has all of the depth and development I could ever require. P.S. In addition to writing fabulous books, Hamill's been the editor-in-chief of the Post and the Daily News. In my world, this gives him extra street cred. P.S.S. Hamill gets bonus points for mentioning my high school in a number of his books. For some reason, this never fails to make me momentarily giddy. ...more Bear with me as I have a hard time reviewing books I really like. Forever has lots of great things going for it: beautifully evocative writing, especially about women, interesting history of Manhattan, constantly evolving plot so as to keep the reader interested and lots of emotion. I'd probably say my favorite part was the bit about Ireland in the beginning of the book. I'd probably give it 4.5 stars, but this book definitely makes me want to read Hamill's other works. Oh, and it really captures Bear with me as I have a hard time reviewing books I really like. Forever has lots of great things going for it: beautifully evocative writing, especially about women, interesting history of Manhattan, constantly evolving plot so as to keep the reader interested and lots of emotion. I'd probably say my favorite part was the bit about Ireland in the beginning of the book. I'd probably give it 4.5 stars, but this book definitely makes me want to read Hamill's other works. Oh, and it really captures a living, breathing New York in a way that Winter's Tale could not. ...more It took a lot to get even 5 chapters into this. It was mind numbingly slow. I picked this one up because I\u2019d heard it was a great way to learn about the history of New York City. As the back cover summary explains, one man is offered immortality with the condition that he can never leave the island of Manhattan. The problem is, that twist is given away before you open the book and yet 200 pages into the story it still hasn\u2019t even happened. So you find yourself just waiting for it, instead of allowing yourself to be taken in by the rest of the tale. The first 100 pages or I picked this one up because I\u2019d heard it was a great way to learn about the history of New York City. As the back cover summary explains, one man is offered immortality with the condition that he can never leave the island of Manhattan. The problem is, that twist is given away before you open the book and yet 200 pages into the story it still hasn\u2019t even happened. So you find yourself just waiting for it, instead of allowing yourself to be taken in by the rest of the tale. The first 100 pages or so went really slowly. The book is supposed to be a great New York City tale and at 150 pages, the main character hadn\u2019t even made it to NYC yet, he was still living in Ireland. Then it picks up and the speed completely changes. The story covers multiple centuries but the vast majority of it happens in the first 20 years of his life and in the final part of his life. I felt like the entire middle was simple skimmed over with only a few pit stops. The pacing of the whole thing felt off to me. The fact that the main character knows he will outlive everyone he meets definitely has an effect on character development. I felt like I barely got to know most of the people he befriended. It was like the main character didn\u2019t want to get too attached and so the author didn\u2019t let the reader become invested either. I really enjoyed some sections and felt like I did learn a bit more about the city, but I don\u2019t think I would have made it through the whole book if I wasn\u2019t already planning a trip NYC. **SPOILER** One interesting thing, the author finished the book shortly before the 9/11 tragedy. When the two towers were attacked, he talked with his editor and decided to rewrite the ending. He didn\u2019t believe it was right to release a book dealing with so many major events in the city\u2019s history, but not to include such a monumental one. **SPOILERS OVER** \u201cNew York, he was learning, was a city of present tense, an eternal now.\u201d \u201cI don\u2019t know what that means. To truly live.\u201d \u201cTo find work that you love, and work harder than other men. To learn the languages of the earth, and love the sounds of the words and the things they describe. To love food and music and drink. Fully love them. To love weather, and storms, and the smell of rain. To love heat. To love cold. To love sleep and dreams. To love the newness of each day.\u201d ...more While it suffered some unexpected pacing issues, this book was overall an enjoyable and thoughtful adventure. I spent most of the first half of the novel confused and impatient for the plot to represent the blurb on the back cover-- immortality and NYC history-- which made trudging through Cormac's young life more tedious than it needed to be. I think this is a trouble moreso with the choice of wording on the back cover (creating inaccurate expectations) than a problem with the novel itself, as I While it suffered some unexpected pacing issues, this book was overall an enjoyable and thoughtful adventure. I spent most of the first half of the novel confused and impatient for the plot to represent the blurb on the back cover-- immortality and NYC history-- which made trudging through Cormac's young life more tedious than it needed to be. I think this is a trouble moreso with the choice of wording on the back cover (creating inaccurate expectations) than a problem with the novel itself, as I think Cormac's background and youth experiences are essential for understanding the latter half. For example, his connection to Ireland, Irish folklore/religion, and his family are essential to fully comprehend and feel the weight of his \"blessing\" from Kongo as well as his ultimate decision. While the book feels like several separate novels, there are themes that tie them all together: Cormac starts off a boy with a hidden history and identity, a secret name, and this is a consistent theme in his latter life as well; his relationship with women starts as a boy, with Mary Morrigan in the cave, and this resonants throughout his history; the importance of connection to a community, faith, belief; more tangibly, the artifacts he carries over from Ireland. Ultimately, while his life intersects with several major historical events in NYC, this is really a book about life and the long trudgery of living. Kongo tells Cormac that he must \"live, truly live\", but Cormac seems to spend the majority of his long life waiting to die and rejoin his family in the Otherworld, just passing time taking up hobbies and working a variety of jobs throughout NYC. He becomes more distant and less connected to the city as time goes on, until he's mroe or less a living ghost trying to leave no trace and go unnoticed. He makes few meaningful relationships with people, which is I think essential to \"truly living\", and the several connections he does make shows he disconnected from humanity he really is. While this frustrated me at the time, it does make the final chapters and his final decision all the more poignant. Overall this is a great read if you don't mind settling in for the long haul and immersing yourself in vivid setting descriptions. ...more Forever began so wonderfully for me. It was engaging, touching, and completely drew me in. I quickly grew to love the main character, his family, his horse and his dog. I even shed tears when his mother died. But around the fourth or fifth chapter, things started to change. The story began to thin out and jumped around a bit. It would jump ahead decades only to have the narrator look back at the time that was skipped, often missing the chance to explore anything in depth. The narrator describes Forever began so wonderfully for me. It was engaging, touching, and completely drew me in. I quickly grew to love the main character, his family, his horse and his dog. I even shed tears when his mother died. But around the fourth or fifth chapter, things started to change. The story began to thin out and jumped around a bit. It would jump ahead decades only to have the narrator look back at the time that was skipped, often missing the chance to explore anything in depth. The narrator describes the book very well when he is describing his life towards the end of the book \"...my life has no shape at all. There are no straight lines. I have this strange life, but it's not, in the end, strange at all. There is no plot. There is only luck and chance.\" I understand having the structure of the story match the life of the character, as a devise, but I don't want to read books with no plot. I was going to say that if I wanted that, I would just look at my own life, but that is so not true. We all have a plot to our lives, some more exciting than other, to be sure, but a plot none the less. One of our jobs in life is to find that plot, and once we do, we have the opportunity to take control and mold that plot any way we want. Hamill had an incredible opportunity to find the plot in his character's life. He let that opportunity go, which begs the question, why write the story at all? There was so much potential here, but perhaps Hamill got overwhelmed with what he was creating. He just couldn't sustain the intimacy he started with in the beginning, which is a shame. ...more If I could give this book zero stars I would. Or negative even. This is the worst book I have read EVER without exaggeration. It ranks up there with Angela\u2019s Ashes, God of Small Things, any John Grisham book, and any other book which makes you want to give up reading whenever you remember your experience reading them. The book is supposed to detail the life of an Irishman granted immortality who ends up in NYC in the mid 1700\u2019s, and follows his life (and the life of NYC) from 1750 through 2001 ( If I could give this book zero stars I would. Or negative even. This is the worst book I have read EVER without exaggeration. It ranks up there with Angela\u2019s Ashes, God of Small Things, any John Grisham book, and any other book which makes you want to give up reading whenever you remember your experience reading them. The book is supposed to detail the life of an Irishman granted immortality who ends up in NYC in the mid 1700\u2019s, and follows his life (and the life of NYC) from 1750 through 2001 (9/11). He uses clich\u00e9s throughout the book (actually stating that a knife cut through a piece of wood like a hot knife through butter), his pacing is ridiculous (spending 200 pages on 1776 but almost zero pages on the entire Civil War), his characters unbelievable (every main character is perfect and good-looking and multicultured and appreciative of the arts -- how PC can you get?). I honestly can\u2019t continue to describe how badly-written this book is without wanting to hurt someone. Thinking about how much I detest this book makes me want to become violent. Honestly, if you have read this book and enjoyed it more than a root canal, don\u2019t admit it to me because I don\u2019t want to think less of you. This book belongs in the Bad Books Hall of Fame. I think I just threw up in my mouth. ...more Magical realism arrives in New York City when Cormac O'Connor arrives in the late eighteenth century to avenge the deaths of his parents at the hand of the evil Earl of Warren. His quest brings him in contact with the black slave, Congo, who he befriends on the boat to America and who assists him in his mission and then bestows upon him the gift of immortality. Through Cormac's eyes we see the history of New York City unfolding through the years as he must fight the Warrens through the succeeding Magical realism arrives in New York City when Cormac O'Connor arrives in the late eighteenth century to avenge the deaths of his parents at the hand of the evil Earl of Warren. His quest brings him in contact with the black slave, Congo, who he befriends on the boat to America and who assists him in his mission and then bestows upon him the gift of immortality. Through Cormac's eyes we see the history of New York City unfolding through the years as he must fight the Warrens through the succeeding generations, while at the same time living a lonely existence as everyone he knows and cares about ultimate disappear. But finally he meets the \"mysterious dark lady covered in spirals\" who alone can free him from his fate. This is a magically luminous story. ...more I really appreciate this book. I wasn't necessarily expecting to. A co-worker recommended it saying it was one of her top 3 favorite books, so i decided to read. This book takes you through the history of Manhattan, beginning in the 18th century to current day following 9/11, from the point of view of Irish immigrant Cormac, who travels to America to avenge his fathers death. Spanning 300 years starting with the 1700's Irish Catholic/Protestant conflict, the \"Old Religion\" and his journey to Ame I really appreciate this book. I wasn't necessarily expecting to. A co-worker recommended it saying it was one of her top 3 favorite books, so i decided to read. This book takes you through the history of Manhattan, beginning in the 18th century to current day following 9/11, from the point of view of Irish immigrant Cormac, who travels to America to avenge his fathers death. Spanning 300 years starting with the 1700's Irish Catholic/Protestant conflict, the \"Old Religion\" and his journey to America on a slave ship, this book takes you throughout the period of slavery in America, the Revolutionary War, brothels, and finally terrorism. Forever allows a first hand view of the grit and awe of NYC. A must read! ...more Like Hamill from A Snow in August, but this novel was awful, i only finished it to see how he tied it together. The plot too ambitious, you can't pack the history of new york into a story of one man. Hamill can't properly end it and does an awful job of foreshadowing the 9/11 attacks. The towers seemed to be mention in every paragraph when the story shifts to the recent past, poorly alluding to what will come. I do not recommend this at all and wish i didn't waste money on it. One of my all-time favorites I started reading Pete Hamill\u2019s critically acclaimed Forever when I was a senior in high school. For some reason I don\u2019t remember, I stopped reading 150 pages in and ever since then I\u2019ve been meaning to come back to it. Now that I\u2019ve finally read this book I think I remember why it didn\u2019t hold my teenage attention: one word to perfectly describe this book would be \u201cuneven.\u201d Forever tells the story of a young boy in 18th century Ireland whose family follows the Old Religion of the ancient Celts. T I started reading Pete Hamill\u2019s critically acclaimed Forever when I was a senior in high school. For some reason I don\u2019t remember, I stopped reading 150 pages in and ever since then I\u2019ve been meaning to come back to it. Now that I\u2019ve finally read this book I think I remember why it didn\u2019t hold my teenage attention: one word to perfectly describe this book would be \u201cuneven.\u201d Forever tells the story of a young boy in 18th century Ireland whose family follows the Old Religion of the ancient Celts. They believe in the Otherworld and the Irish gods. Cormac O\u2019Connor learns about his heritage and his secret religion, and then finds his world turned upside down when both of his parents are murdered by a rich man named the Earl of Warren. Cormac\u2019s religion states very clearly that murder must be avenged, and that the sons and daughters of the murderer must also be killed. The family must come to the end of the line. Cormac\u2019s mission is now clear. Because the Earl has fled to the small colonial town that New York City was in 1741, Cormac O\u2019Connor must go to hunt him down, and while he\u2019s there, he finds himself embroiled in the struggle for freedom\u2014for the African slaves, and eventually, for the new United States of America. During his frequent battles, he saves the life of an African slave named Kongo. As a gift, Kongo bestows upon Cormac eternal life as long as he never leaves the island of Manhattan. Boom. All of the threads of an excellent story seem woven into this book. But truly, it sounds better on the back cover than it actually is. This book kept losing my attention, and it\u2019s truly rare that I ever want to abandon a book mid-read. Because the narrative is so punctuated across 260 years, the story never develops fully enough to make the reader care. The story first jumps thirty years each section, and then in the last, goes from the late 1800s to 2001 for seemingly no other reason than the author was tired of creating these period episodes and decided to tell the character\u2019s 20th century story in anecdotal form. It did not seem well thought out. Sometimes I read at a gallop, at others I didn\u2019t pick the book up for days because the narrative was so stagnant and limp. Cormac as a character is pretty unbelievable and at times, wholly unlikeable. He doesn\u2019t have to be likable necessarily, but the author makes it clear that we\u2019re supposed to admire this man, and it\u2019s hard to. He\u2019s a bit of a misogynist. Also, his life\u2019s purpose is to track down and kill all the descendants of the man who killed his parents, people who have no culpability in that crime, all to adhere to the strictures of an ancient religion that the author makes clear is inherently superior to any form of Christianity. Only by killing these innocent people will Cormac be able to avenge his father and reunite with him in the Celtic Otherworld, their heaven. Eh. And even though he\u2019s semi-aware of the immorality of his mission, he never feels remorse or even PTSD for all the killing he\u2019s done. I also found his character totally unbelievable because the author fails to incorporate elements like accent, the varieties of language and the total overhaul of customs and culture that Cormac is sure to have been influenced by in his 260+ years in New York. Cormac mentions that the computer has changed culture the same way that the printing press did in earlier decades, but there is no description of his language peculiarities or his accent that others are sure to find confusing. The English language has changed unrecognizably since the 1740s, not just slang or common phrases, but how it\u2019s spoken and pronounced. I find it so ridiculous that this isn\u2019t even mentioned. Even in freaking Twilight, Bella mentions that Edward\u2019s language and his accent are weird. But not in this critically-acclaimed bestseller? Cormac, in this novel, feels like he\u2019s just walking through his eternal life, not like he\u2019s being influenced by it at all. It feels all too self-indulgent, too neat, too cool, like author\u2019s wish fulfillment. Cormac isn\u2019t a real person in these pages. It\u2019s like Cormac is just a vehicle put there so the author can name drop all the endless historical and cultural figures that have appeared on New York streets, and imagine himself meeting all of them. The last \u201cphase\u201d of the novel is in September 2001, and obviously included are the horrors of the attacks on the World Trade Center. The last hundred pages of the novel are littered with heavy-handed foreshadowing I found totally amateur, and I also felt like including 9/11 was gratuitous and irreverent. I would have liked it to have ended with Cormac passing into the Otherworld without having witnessed that. It would have felt more poignant and more respectful. Still, sometimes it was beautiful, real and well turned out. Sometimes: \u201cI don\u2019t know what that means. To truly live.\u201d \u201cTo find work that you love, and work harder than other men. To learn the languages of the earth, and love the sounds of the words and the things they describe. To love food and music and drink. Fully love them. To love weather, and storms, and the smell of rain. To love heat. To love cold. To love sleep and dreams. To love the newness of each day.\u201d Overall, I\u2019d give this book 2 1/2 stars. So many times while reading I just wanted to finish it already. I thought, \u201cthis book never ends,\u201d and then I thought how ironic that was considering it\u2019s called Forever! Sorry, Pete Hamill. ...more This book and I have a love/hate relationship. Forever took me much longer to read than books I have read in the past. I was surprised at first when I started to read this book because the story did not start as I had expected it to. From the back cover of the book I could tell that this book had an element of fantasy and that it took place in New York city. However, the book starts off in Ireland (around the 1700s I believe) and with out prior knowledge I would have considered this book to be h This book and I have a love/hate relationship. Forever took me much longer to read than books I have read in the past. I was surprised at first when I started to read this book because the story did not start as I had expected it to. From the back cover of the book I could tell that this book had an element of fantasy and that it took place in New York city. However, the book starts off in Ireland (around the 1700s I believe) and with out prior knowledge I would have considered this book to be historical fiction. I thought that there was too long of an introduction of the characters and description of Ireland in the beginning of the book. I got pretty bored reading about the day to day life of Cormac O'Conner very fast and I would put down the book and not read for several days. Something kept me coming back though, the story that unfolded was eerie, dark and mysterious. It was after the death of Cormac's mother that the book seemed to really get started. The element of fantasy was revealed when Cormac's father starts to teach him the ways of the ancient Ireland religion. As Cormac grows up his father teaches him how to be a true Irish man. Cormac then travels to America seek revenge on the man who kille his mother and the book becomes rather boring again. The characters in this book are all very relatable and I felt as if I was truly friends with many of the people that Cormac meets in New York. The best part of the book takes place when Cormac rescues a slave who turns out to be a sort of shaman. Cormac almost dies that night but the slave saves him an grants him eternal life as long as he never leaves the island of Manhattan. I love the way that Cormac is able to encounter people from so many different eras and watch the evolution of New York City almost from its birth. However overall I thought this book was a great idea but it did not hold my attention and I found it hard to finish. I would recommend this book to read because I thought it was interesting but it is definitely not one of my favorites. ...more Forever is the lifelong story of an truly Irish young man, Cormac O'Connor, who flees Ireland for New York in 1740 to avenge the murders of his parents; fueled by his father's words and his father's sword. While onboard ship, Cormac gives aid to slaves being transported from Africa on the same ship. Upon arrival in Manhattan, Cormac has a single-eyed determination to kill tha Earl of Warren, the man who killed his parents. During some supernatural circumstances Cormac receives the gift of immorta Forever is the lifelong story of an truly Irish young man, Cormac O'Connor, who flees Ireland for New York in 1740 to avenge the murders of his parents; fueled by his father's words and his father's sword. While onboard ship, Cormac gives aid to slaves being transported from Africa on the same ship. Upon arrival in Manhattan, Cormac has a single-eyed determination to kill tha Earl of Warren, the man who killed his parents. During some supernatural circumstances Cormac receives the gift of immortality; he never ages; howver, the gift comes with a curse - if he ever leaves the island of Manhattan he will die. This book is not only about Cormac's mission to, through the ages, wipe out the Earl of Warren's descendants in every generation as long as they come to Manhattan, it's also a vast history lesson of NY/Manhattan from 1740-2001. Yes, Cormac's story covers 260+ years. If not for the fact that the book drags in parts and is, in my opinion, about 150+ pages too long, I would have given Forever 5 stars. I learned a lot about NY/Manhattan's history through the decades and centuries but at times I felt like I was aging b/c the story was moving so slowly. Once the plot made it into the 21st century on page 420 or so, (not completely sure b/c i listened to the book on tape) I was determined to find out what happens to Cormac. The ending was worth finishing the book. I just couldn't give the book 5 stars in good conscience. If you liked Snow in August, I think you'll really enjoy Forever. The writing style and character development are top notch. Snow in August and Forever also have the unexplainable supernatural oddities in common. I just wish that Forever's pace flowed as well or was as captivating for me as Snow in August was. Forever really is well worth reading if you like Pete Hamill's writing and quality characters; just don't expect a quickly moving read. ...more This is the first book I have read by this author, who is best know for nonfiction writings about New York City. I selected this story because I was drawn to the concept of someone living forever in Manhattan, watching to city grow and change over the decades. The novel didn't quite live up to my expectations. The main character, Cormac O'Connor, begins his life in Ireland in the 1700's where he learns of true Irish ways from his father (references to mysticism and the current conflict with form This is the first book I have read by this author, who is best know for nonfiction writings about New York City. I selected this story because I was drawn to the concept of someone living forever in Manhattan, watching to city grow and change over the decades. The novel didn't quite live up to my expectations. The main character, Cormac O'Connor, begins his life in Ireland in the 1700's where he learns of true Irish ways from his father (references to mysticism and the current conflict with formal religions). Following his parent's death Cormac sets out for America, driven by an obligation to avenge his father's murder. Once in New York Cormac befriends other immigrants and builds relationships with Africans, many brought to New York in chains. The novel explores tensions between the ruling class and working class, slavery, the immigration experience and historical events. One of the most interesting elements was the reference to battling over the city's water supply and, not surprising but something I had never thought of before, the stench that filled the city. Somewhere along the way Cormac is shot defending an African man he has come to know. The African man turns out to be a mystic of sorts and Cormac is given eternal life within the island of Manhattan. Though his experiences we see New York unfold over the years with the story concluding just after the events of September 11th. There was a bit too much of the magical and mystical for me, or maybe not enough. I would have like this story more if it was either more factual or went all-out with magical realism. As it is, I felt the mystical references took away from the story. I did enjoy the historical elements and will likely read a nonfiction by Hamill in the future. ...more Forever is a large story spanning centuries and all for one man. After his mother is killed in Ireland by an English Earl, Cormac O'Connor's father forges a perfect sword to avenge her death. When his father is killed for his horse by the same Earl, Cormac is charged with killing the Earl unto the last generation. How that all comes about is the premise for this story covering space and time and myth. Cormac cannot leave Manhattan without risking the loss of the Outerworld and being unable to a Forever is a large story spanning centuries and all for one man. After his mother is killed in Ireland by an English Earl, Cormac O'Connor's father forges a perfect sword to avenge her death. When his father is killed for his horse by the same Earl, Cormac is charged with killing the Earl unto the last generation. How that all comes about is the premise for this story covering space and time and myth. Cormac cannot leave Manhattan without risking the loss of the Outerworld and being unable to avenge his family. Hundreds of years later, he is in Manhattan in 2001. For those who have been fascinated by A winter's Tale, here is another Pete Hamill to keep you reading long past the time responsible adults should be asleep. Quotes: \"Cormac knew the dead were there because he had seen them, as he had seen the dead (or the undead, as the Irishman Bram Stoker called them) move through old houses and along those few streets at the tip of the island that still were cobbled. Murderers and Catholics, deviates and freaks, soldiers, seamen and teamsters driven mad by the city: and then three pale women, the color of ivory, their dresses ragged as fog, walking in the yellow light of gas lamps.\" \"I'll leave by the Western door, as in Ireland long ago. The door reserved for the dead. With me,I'll take the fire out of the hearth.\" ...more The premise of this book is that Cormac will be immortal until he completes his \"task\" (spoiler-free reference) and finds the right woman, at which point he will be able to pass to the Otherworld and meet his family. Oh yeah, and he can't leave Manhattan Island or he will die and go to hell. Cormac lives several hundred years during the timeframe of the book. Cormac is not the only lead in this story, however; the city of Manhattan is the other. While Cormac grows and deals with the changing tim The premise of this book is that Cormac will be immortal until he completes his \"task\" (spoiler-free reference) and finds the right woman, at which point he will be able to pass to the Otherworld and meet his family. Oh yeah, and he can't leave Manhattan Island or he will die and go to hell. Cormac lives several hundred years during the timeframe of the book. Cormac is not the only lead in this story, however; the city of Manhattan is the other. While Cormac grows and deals with the changing times (through the 19th to the 21st century, we also get to experience how and why the city changes. It would seem the more things change, the more they stay the same. While reading the book, I kept thinking that there were parts, while interesting, that could be taken out and not missed to pare down the 600+ page book; they were filler. I was beginning to feel like it would take \"forever\" just to finish reading the book. But then it occurred to me that that was probably the point. It was a way for me to \"feel\" what Cormac was going through. By the end of the book, I was ready for it to end, much like Cormac. Once I realized that, it made the book all that more interesting, more of an adventure. I would definitely recommend this read as it is not only entertaining, but also educational. ...more ***NO SPOILERS*** When I first started this book, I was a little skeptical as to whether or not I would like it. As I kept reading, I was surprised to find that I actually really enjoyed this book. Hamill does a wonderful job of weaving together a beautiful, captivating story with a lot of philosophical questions in between. I found that the story itself is not necessarily what kept me coming back, it was the questions that were constantly being asked, things that really made me think, research, ***NO SPOILERS*** When I first started this book, I was a little skeptical as to whether or not I would like it. As I kept reading, I was surprised to find that I actually really enjoyed this book. Hamill does a wonderful job of weaving together a beautiful, captivating story with a lot of philosophical questions in between. I found that the story itself is not necessarily what kept me coming back, it was the questions that were constantly being asked, things that really made me think, research, and question. Honestly, I'm not sure that a die-hard Christian would like this very much; he brings up a lot of questions about Christianity, religions, etc. Do not read this if you are looking for a novel-like history of New York. If you are looking for something like that, then pick up Edward Rutherfurd's \"New York\". There is a lot of Irish history in this book, however, and a lot about the Celts and their philosophies. Overall a good, fascinating read that makes you ask a lot of questions about mortality and the effects of religion on society. There were a few typos here and there, but hey, who cares! It was still a great book and I'm very glad that I took the time read it. K ...more<---C>Pete Hamill</---C>", "Title": "Forever"},
