{"Comments": "<+++>The Accident</+++> is a simple read with some interesting descriptions and characters.Sue is an engrossing character at the start who I genuinely liked but after about 70 pages she really got annoying along with the flashbacks to her past, it just felt completely cliche. The book is about Charlotte,<---M> Sue's daughter</---M>, who walked in front of a car and is now in a coma and Sue is determined to uncover the truth. I bought this book because it was in a deal and I really did regret it! It was easy to fly thr <+++>The Accident</+++> is a simple read with some interesting descriptions and characters.Sue is an engrossing character at the start who I genuinely liked but after about 70 pages she really got annoying along with the flashbacks to her past, it just felt completely cliche. The book is about Charlotte, Sue's daughter, who walked in front of a car and is now in a coma and Sue is determined to uncover the truth. I bought this book because it was in a deal and I really did regret it! It was easy to fly through as some aspects of the story reel you in but then there's just so many ridiculous moments and badly written dialogue that come hand in hand with cliche characters like James, Sue's ex. I was delighted when I came to the end only to be met with the most ridiculous and hilarious ending ever which made me want to throw the book at the wall, I can't believe someone would ever consider it as an ending! I've read Before I go To Sleep and Gone Girl and I'd say they're nothing alike as both other books are captivating and intriguing and ten times better than this trash! ...more Oh dear, poor Sue, has she ever got her plate full! Brian, her MP husband, who was unfaithful a few years ago, may be cheating again; her mum is in a care home suffering, from some sort of dementia; her daughter Charlotte is in hospital in a coma having deliberately walked into the path of a bus, and if this is not enough we have James, a violent, obsessive ex-boyfriend from twenty years ago, who is suddenly stalking her....<---F>after twenty years</---F>. Why? How much can a girl take! It's no wonder she's Oh dear, poor Sue, has she ever got her plate full! Brian, her MP husband, who was unfaithful a few years ago, may be cheating again; her mum is in a care home suffering, from some sort of dementia; her daughter Charlotte is in hospital in a coma having deliberately walked into the path of a bus, and if this is not enough we have James, a violent, obsessive ex-boyfriend from twenty years ago, who is suddenly stalking her....after twenty years. Why? How much can a girl take! It's no wonder she's going off the rails. Or is she? Sue gets herself into all sorts of improbable situations in an attempt to unravel the mystery of why her daughter would attempt to kill herself. Along the way she accuses her husband of sexually molesting his own daughter, which does nothing to her slightly shaky marriage; she becomes convinced that James the stalker is working as a teacher in Charlotte's school. She then meets some rather unsavoury characters and decides to ramp up her investigation by going to a well know London nightclub, a watering hole for the rich and famous, to confront the man she believes is responsible for her daughter's demise - the notion of this is preposterous: lying to her husband, getting dressed up in what she thinks is suitable nightclub gear, blagging her way in. Is there an upper age limit to these clubs? She is only forty-three - hardly a granny, glamorous or not but the bouncers seem unwilling to let her in merely on the grounds of her age! In alternate chapters Sue relates all the gory details of her two year reign of terror at the hands James; these, apparently, are diary entries - extremely long diary entries I must say. It becomes apparent that Sue had been around the block before she met James, and although he professes to worship and adore her, he is obviously the archetypal violent villain most normal people would not just walk away from, but run - and fast. To be honest I began skipping some of these diary entries because I got so angry at Sue for staying in such an abusive relationship - and reading about it just became tedious. Apart from the fact that I had worked out the plot halfway through the book, the final confrontation, in Charlotte's hospital room, frankly had me laughing out loud. Pure nonsense. Whilst the writing isn't bad, it is at times, clunky, for example: \"...pick my book back up again\"; I also found the use of \"I\" where \"me\" is correct, really irritating. This whole book is just too silly - there are far too many things going on at once; the characters are not likeable at all, in fact I couldn't have cared less what happened to any of them. The situations Sue finds herself in are too far-fetched and the ending so neat, tidy and cheesy this is not the \"terrifying psychological thriller\" it wants to be. And finally, are we to assume that all's well that ends well - without wanting to add a spoiler here, there is one glaring omission. Once again we have a book that is described as \"perfect for fans of Gone Girl\" I wish publicists would stop doing this; Gillian Flynn's book is one on its own and is in no way anything like this novel. If comparisons are to be made, they should be to Lucie Whitehouse's \"The Bed I Made\" and \"The Book of You\" by Claire Kendal. ...more This book was voted for my PIck It For Me Book for May, so thanks to those who voted for this book. Fast-paced and suspenseful The Accident is perfect for fans of Before I Go to Sleep, Gone Girl and Sophie Hannah. A gripping psychological thriller about the deadly secrets your children can keep ...Sue Jackson has the perfect family but when her teenage daughter Charlotte deliberately steps in front of a bus and ends up in a coma she is forced to face a very dark reality. Retracing her daughter's This book was voted for my PIck It For Me Book for May, so thanks to those who voted for this book. Fast-paced and suspenseful The Accident is perfect for fans of Before I Go to Sleep, Gone Girl and Sophie Hannah. A gripping psychological thriller about the deadly secrets your children can keep ...Sue Jackson has the perfect family but when her teenage daughter Charlotte deliberately steps in front of a bus and ends up in a coma she is forced to face a very dark reality. Retracing her daughter's steps she finds a horrifying entry in Charlotte's diary and is forced to head deep into Charlotte's private world. In her hunt for evidence, Sue begins to mistrust everyone close to her daughter and she's forced to look further, into the depths of her own past. Sue will do anything to protect her daughter. But what if she is the reason that Charlotte is in danger? The story flickers between the heart-breaking events of the present and diary entries from Sue\u2019s past, allowing two events to unfold before us. In the present day Sue is dealing with the events surrounding her daughter having walked in front of a bus, and in the past we see the abusive relationship which Sue suffered in her earlier years. Sue is convinced that there is a link between the two, even if it is only something as tentative as her daughter having a relationship which mirrors her past in the smallest of ways, and that there must be some reason for her daughter having made the choice that she did, however being somewhat unreliable it is difficult for anyone \u2013 including Sue \u2013 to tell whether she is seeing connections or whether she is simply imagining things to be there. The main characters were so well written and convincing I had to remind myself I was reading a novel and not about a real life event. Sue's past life makes for chilling reading and is at times quite scary; once you know the full history it really is no surprise why she has so many mental scars. I really enjoyed this excellent thriller and look forward to reading more her next book The Lie. Give this book an easy 4 stars. ...more In very much in a similar vein to Claire Kendal\u2019s The Book of You or Elizabeth Haynes Into The Darkest Corner, author Cally Taylor in a new guise, launches her crime writing career with this dark psychological thriller. In this increasingly overcrowded sub-genre of crime writing, with many books treading a similar path, how did The Accident fare? The book opens with a seemingly settled, middle aged married woman, waiting at the bedside of her comatose teenage daughter, who has been involved in an In very much in a similar vein to Claire Kendal\u2019s The Book of You or Elizabeth Haynes Into The Darkest Corner, author Cally Taylor in a new guise, launches her crime writing career with this dark psychological thriller. In this increasingly overcrowded sub-genre of crime writing, with many books treading a similar path, how did The Accident fare? The book opens with a seemingly settled, middle aged married woman, waiting at the bedside of her comatose teenage daughter, who has been involved in an accident, and is currently hovering between life and death. The story hinges on what has driven Sue\u2019s daughter, Charlotte, to the brink of suicide, and charts the former life of Sue and her former unbalanced mental state, precipitated by a destructive and bullying relationship some years previously. Taylor implements a dual narrative structure with a twenty year lapse between the two, using Sue\u2019s diaries charting the course of this damaging relationship with the manipulative James, in the 1990s, and in a symbiotic circle, using the reading of Charlotte\u2019s diary in the present time, to provide some insight into her daughter\u2019s attempted suicide. As the story unfolds, we observe the level of distrust and suspicion inherent in Sue\u2019s current marriage to Brian (<---B>a member of parliament who has strayed on occasion</---B>), the effects of Charlotte\u2019s secret life revealed by her diary, and the possible reappearance of the evil James in Sue\u2019s life, reawakening Sue\u2019s previously fragile mental state. Structure wise, the tried and tested method of diary entries from the past interspersed into the current narrative, was certainly the strongest aspect of the narrative, charting Sue\u2019s relationship with James, but quickly signposting the erratic and destructive aspects of James\u2019 character. As any woman who has suffered in an abusive relationship knows, what initially seem to be relatively harmless indicators can quickly escalate into a claustrophobic and fearful situation, and Taylor captures well the denigration of Sue\u2019s mental state within the confines of this relationship. and her efforts to escape from it. Less successful for me was the current storyline, and I cared little for the secrets harboured in her daughter\u2019s life, and Sue\u2019s faintly ridiculous attempts to be \u2018down with the kids\u2019 in an effort to uncover the reasons for her daughter\u2019s accident. I found this a little clunky, and a bit far fetched to be honest but, as the whole book gravitated quickly between both narratives, my annoyance was quickly quashed by the balance between the return to the diary entries. The characterisation throughout was relatively successful, and I felt that the author had invested much effort into Sue herself and her mental anguish, but did find the surrounding protagonists a little less well-formed, conforming to a status of mere bit players in the overall plot, with only really James being more vital, interesting and downright sinister, within the plot. I will put my hands up, and admit to being a little jaded by this genre of crime, following the plethora of releases, so similar in style and narrative structure. However, I think the comparisons to Gone Girl, Before I Go To Sleep and The Silent Wife, are justified as this is very much in a similar vein to these, and will be enjoyed by readers of this genre. You will be hooked instantaneously, and the pace that Taylor affords to the narrative will keep you reading despite the minor flaws in the present day storyline, and the slightly less depth inherent in the overall characterisation. An entertaining enough read, and perfect for fans of the psychological thriller. ...more I am genuinely angry with myself for having wasted several hours finishing this turkey. Altho' before half-way through it was obvious the characters were totally implausible, the plot was intriguing & pulled me along. The ending, however, is utterly unbelievable - even for something that's supposed to be happening in a NHS hospital. The publishers are apparently trying to market this as a Gone Girl or Before I Go to Sleep (hence the new American title) knockoff. It does not resemble either b I am genuinely angry with myself for having wasted several hours finishing this turkey. Altho' before half-way through it was obvious the characters were totally implausible, the plot was intriguing & pulled me along. The ending, however, is utterly unbelievable - even for something that's supposed to be happening in a NHS hospital. The publishers are apparently trying to market this as a Gone Girl or Before I Go to Sleep (hence the new American title) knockoff. It does not resemble either but in spots it's a sort of Hong Kong Rolex of Elizabeth Haynes's Into the Darkest Corner with Susan as an even bigger doormat than Cathy & much less attractive. Tho' a waste of time, this book was not totally useless & offered some unintended (I assume) humour: 1. Best unintentionally funny phrasing: \"I'd . . . had a pot roast happily bubbling away in the oven.\" I can just imagine a pot roast \"bubbling\" - but enjoying being roasted \"happily\"? 2. Best inept literary allusion. The narrator's husband fears she's suicidal: \"He probably thinks I'm about to do a Sylvia Plath and walk into the sea.\" No, that's doing a Virginia Woolf. You do a Sylvia Plath in your kitchen! 3. Best ironically appropriate punishment for a villain that attempted to commit a murder in a NHS hospital: I'll not tell you but if you'll find it on p. 394. ...more This is my 3rd CL Taylor and I can honestly say that I have enjoyed them all. I don't think this was as well written as the previous two but this fast paced novel made me want to keep reading to find out more. The novel follows Sue Jackson whose teenage daughter Charlotte deliberately steps in front of a bus and ends up in a coma. Sue wants answers to what made her do it and the torment of did Sue cause it. In her efforts to find out the truth she retraces her daughter\u2019s steps and finds a disturbin This is my 3rd CL Taylor and I can honestly say that I have enjoyed them all. I don't think this was as well written as the previous two but this fast paced novel made me want to keep reading to find out more. The novel follows Sue Jackson whose teenage daughter Charlotte deliberately steps in front of a bus and ends up in a coma. Sue wants answers to what made her do it and the torment of did Sue cause it. In her efforts to find out the truth she retraces her daughter\u2019s steps and finds a disturbing entry in Charlotte\u2019s diary that forces her to dig deeper into Charlotte\u2019s secrets. This was CL Taylor's debut Crime novel which may explain why I found it less impressive than my other two reads but it was still an enjoyable book by an author I plan to read more of. ...more Publication Date: April 14th by Avon Harper Collins Thank you to the author and publisher for the review copy. Sue Jackson has the perfect family but when her teenage daughter Charlotte deliberately steps in front of a bus and ends up in a coma she is forced to face a very dark reality. Retracing her daughter\u2019s steps she finds a horrifying entry in Charlotte\u2019s diary and is forced to head deep into Charlotte\u2019s private world. In her hunt for evidence, Sue begins to mistrust everyone close to her daug Publication Date: April 14th by Avon Harper Collins Thank you to the author and publisher for the review copy. Sue Jackson has the perfect family but when her teenage daughter Charlotte deliberately steps in front of a bus and ends up in a coma she is forced to face a very dark reality. Retracing her daughter\u2019s steps she finds a horrifying entry in Charlotte\u2019s diary and is forced to head deep into Charlotte\u2019s private world. In her hunt for evidence, Sue begins to mistrust everyone close to her daughter and she\u2019s forced to look further, into the depths of her own past. An extremely clever and involving past/present mystery story \u2013 absolutely addictive, I practically got paper cuts as I avidly turned the pages, following along with Sue as she begins to uncover the hidden layers of Charlotte\u2019s world. I\u2019m a huge fan of well constructed psychological stories, where nothing is ever as it seems and this is an extremely good example of that kind of tale. Sue has issues of her own, she frequently has breakdowns, so even as she discovers something twisted going on that may be related to her own past, will she get anyone to believe her? Will YOU the reader believe that there is any more going on here than a teenager letting general life woes get on top of her and making a snap, impulsive decision to end her life.. I loved the characters \u2013 I sympathised with Sue utterly as she struggles to keep it together in the aftermath of a heart wrenching event, and the well drawn background of her previous experiences that colour and shape how she reacts is perfectly placed to leave you slightly off kilter and wonder if she isnt, perhaps, just losing her mind. Cleverly done \u2013 I say no more, I would not want to inadvertantly spoil it. Told in present time, with flashbacks fleshing out Sue\u2019s history both as a young woman and her life with her Husband, this is truly terrifying in a lot of ways and encompasses an authentic look at issues involving post traumatic stress \u2013 clever, intriguing, beautifully flowing and captivating, this is definitely one to watch. Happy Reading Folks! ...more The story begins with Sue Jackson sitting by her 15 year old daughter Charlotte\u2019s hospital bed. Charlotte has been in a coma for the previous six weeks and the doctors have no idea if, or when, she will wake up. Sue however, believes her daughter is too frightened to wake up. Ever since she discovered an entry in Charlotte\u2019s diary \u201cKeeping this secret is killing me\u2026\u201d she is convinced that her daughter deliberately stepped in front of the bus, unlike her husband Brian who believes it to be an acci The story begins with Sue Jackson sitting by her 15 year old daughter Charlotte\u2019s hospital bed. Charlotte has been in a coma for the previous six weeks and the doctors have no idea if, or when, she will wake up. Sue however, believes her daughter is too frightened to wake up. Ever since she discovered an entry in Charlotte\u2019s diary \u201cKeeping this secret is killing me\u2026\u201d she is convinced that her daughter deliberately stepped in front of the bus, unlike her husband Brian who believes it to be an accident. Was it a deliberate act, or just a tragic accident? Sue Jackson seems quite ordinary. Married to Brian, a Member of Parliament and mother to Charlotte and stepmum to Brian\u2019s son Oli she appears to have a pefect family life. However all is not what it seems, Events from Sue\u2019s past have left her feeling paranoid and scared and her fragile mental state has impacted on her marriage and family. In order to help Charlotte, Sue must dig deep to find the mental strength needed to involve herself in Charlotte\u2019s life and try to find answers from Charlotte\u2019s friends - someone knows something but is not talking. What she does discover makes her wonder just how well she knew her daughter. Using Sue\u2019s diary entries going back over 20 years together with present time narration by Sue, C L Taylor has written a cleverly crafted and disturbing psychological thriller with tension, twists and turns and red herrings leading to a dramatic conclusion. There were times when I was so frustrated with Sue, particularly during the diary years, and in my head I was shouting at her, \u201cno don\u2019t do that\u201d, I don\u2019t want to spoil the plot for anyone so won\u2019t give any examples but I\u2019m sure you will see what I mean when you read it. The main characters were so well written and convincing I had to remind myself I was reading a novel and not about a real life event. Sue's past life makes for chilling reading and is at times quite scary; once you know the full history it really is no surprise why she has so many mental scars. There were one or two occasions when I was a little less convinced by the storyline but these certainly didn't spoil this 5* read for me. I really enjoyed this excellent thriller and look forward to reading more by C L Taylor. This is C L Taylor\u2019s debut crime novel, other books in a different genre have been written under the name of Cally Taylor which I have on my bookshelf. ...more I was honoured to read and review this book for the author. I had also received this from HarperCollins UK, Avon Via Net Galley. I couldn't wait to get around to reading this book as I loved the sound of it. I was not mistaken in my choice. It starts off in such a way it takes you right into the centre of the story, you need to keep reading, nothing else matters until you finish this book, I am not exaggerating either! Some of the chapters go back a step in time, but this is NOT confusing, its VIT I was honoured to read and review this book for the author. I had also received this from HarperCollins UK, Avon Via Net Galley. I couldn't wait to get around to reading this book as I loved the sound of it. I was not mistaken in my choice. It starts off in such a way it takes you right into the centre of the story, you need to keep reading, nothing else matters until you finish this book, I am not exaggerating either! Some of the chapters go back a step in time, but this is NOT confusing, its VITAL to the storyline. You learn of this woman, who starts off pretty weak, and very dominated and in love to someone who gets stronger. When her past life is left behind, married and with a daughter she has seemingly everything, or does she? I can't give the story away, I won't, because I don't like spoilers myself, so all I am going to say is, that her past comes back to haunt her, and not always in the way you think is straight forward!!! Her immediate family think she's on the verge of another nervous breakdown, but this woman is proving to be stronger than anyone can imagine. READ IT, you MUST. I can't wait for any other books in the genre C L Taylor writes as I thoroughly enjoyed this book. ...more Original Blog Review: https://myescapebookscoffeetea.wordpr... My Instagram: http://instagram.com/blog.myescape/ My Twitter: https://twitter.com/BlogMyEscape Buy this book on The Book Depository: http://www.bookdepository.com/The-Acc... What to say about this book ?\u2026 I gave to it 3 stars because I didn\u2019t love it, but I am also not disappointed with this book. It is like, I didn\u2019t love it, I didn\u2019t hate it, I was not expecting more but I was not expecting less either\u2026 it is complicated and I really d Original Blog Review: https://myescapebookscoffeetea.wordpr... My Instagram: http://instagram.com/blog.myescape/ My Twitter: https://twitter.com/BlogMyEscape Buy this book on The Book Depository: http://www.bookdepository.com/The-Acc... What to say about this book ?\u2026 I gave to it 3 stars because I didn\u2019t love it, but I am also not disappointed with this book. It is like, I didn\u2019t love it, I didn\u2019t hate it, I was not expecting more but I was not expecting less either\u2026 it is complicated and I really don\u2019t know how to explain how I feel about it. Over all I enjoyed it ok ? I have nothing against the characters, only against Charlotte\u2019s friends of course but that\u2019s because they are fifteen years old and annoying (I am not trying to offend any one that is 15 years old, and I am not saying that you are annoying, I am just saying that the characters in this book, that happen to be 15 are really irritating). I have some little \u201cthings\u201d against Sue too, she\u2019s kind of unstable but that\u2019s how she is supposed to be, I guess that it is necessary for this story, so I am not complaining about it and I didn\u2019t give to this book 3 stars because of it. I kind of liked the plot and my \u201c3 stars\u201d aren\u2019t like a 2.5 stars, this score is more like a 3.4 stars, not good enough to be a 4 but not bad enough to be a 3 you know ? I mean, it was great but predictable, I knew what was going to happen at the end all the time\u2026 I don\u2019t know, maybe, after all I kind of was expecting a little more just because I don\u2019t really want to read a book (when it is a mystery/thriller, romances are almost always predictable) when I know that the end of the book is going to be kind of obvious. Of course I think you should read this book because you should have your own opinion about it and I didn\u2019t hate it guys, there\u2019s a chance you\u2019re going to love it ! ...more Terrible writing. Seriously, terrible. I walked away from this mad that I even spent any time on it, and feeling compelled to rate it just to add some realism to goodreads reviews. Wait, let me write that like <---A>C.L. Taylor</---A>: \"This book was so terrible that I felt compelled to write a long run on sentence much like the author who doesn't seem to understand that run on sentences should have been weeded out of her writing in primary school or perhaps middle school when most of us were learning the ba Terrible writing. Seriously, terrible. I walked away from this mad that I even spent any time on it, and feeling compelled to rate it just to add some realism to goodreads reviews. Wait, let me write that like C.L. Taylor: \"This book was so terrible that I felt compelled to write a long run on sentence much like the author who doesn't seem to understand that run on sentences should have been weeded out of her writing in primary school or perhaps middle school when most of us were learning the basics and I think Ms Taylor was playing with toys or perhaps staring at the wall thinking of how incredibly easy it would be to write and publish books once it became easy enough for any hack to do it.\" See all that annoying repetition? The blathering on? Add some unlikable characters, some ridiculous scenarios, a caricature of a 50 shades freak (who is himself a caricature starring in a possibly worse book), a shaky and unbelievable plot, and you've got this book in a nutshell. At the end of the one I got, there is a question/answer interview from the author, where she mentions she was sleep deprived when she wrote a lot of this. When I read that, I went, \"Aha!\" The first few sentences are very good. She came up with those long before she finished the book. Reading this, I felt like perhaps if she had written it during that initial burst of inspiration...it might have been ok. As it was...well. No. Just no. [insert your favorite Nope Nope Nope gif here] ...more This is without a doubt a really good debut novel. The idea is based around a daughter that is in a coma and a mothers drive to solve the secret that caused her daughter to try to take her life. Once the mystery is solved the mother believes her daughter will wake. The only real adrenaline big bang in this story comes in the final 50 pages of the book. The rest of the book just plods along at a slower gentle pace. Having said this the book is not boring in any way it just gently weaves the story This is without a doubt a really good debut novel. The idea is based around a daughter that is in a coma and a mothers drive to solve the secret that caused her daughter to try to take her life. Once the mystery is solved the mother believes her daughter will wake. The only real adrenaline big bang in this story comes in the final 50 pages of the book. The rest of the book just plods along at a slower gentle pace. Having said this the book is not boring in any way it just gently weaves the story into a great tale. There were moments at the beginning of the book that I was not sure whether the book was grabbing me. I got 100 pages through and then realised the book had grabbed me and I needed to finish it all within one sitting. The story is told from two perspectives current day and the past that is linked to Suzy our main character. The different font visually helps with this change of perspective a fact I always enjoy in a book. This is not a wow book but it is a really good read. A solid 3.5 stars which warranted being made to 4 stars as a debut novel. I wish the author every success with this novel and look forward to her second. ...more The Accident is a brilliant debut thriller. Cally Taylor debuts with a brilliant psychological thriller that breaks away from the standard debuts. Cally must have one brilliantly twisted mind and she says the genesis of this novel happened while she was pregnant so who knows what she will produce when someone upsets her! I think Avon HarperCollins are going to be on a winner with Cally Taylor or as I should say C.L. Taylor. Charlotte is a fifteen year old who tries to commit suicide by walking in The Accident is a brilliant debut thriller. Cally Taylor debuts with a brilliant psychological thriller that breaks away from the standard debuts. Cally must have one brilliantly twisted mind and she says the genesis of this novel happened while she was pregnant so who knows what she will produce when someone upsets her! I think Avon HarperCollins are going to be on a winner with Cally Taylor or as I should say C.L. Taylor. Charlotte is a fifteen year old who tries to commit suicide by walking in front of a bus as she cannot cope any longer, she also happens to be the daughter of Brian and Sue Jackson, Brian being the local Member of Parliament for Brighton. All Sue wants to do is find out the reason why Charlotte would attempt to commit suicide what was the dark secret she was hiding? We also get a full back story for Sue when she was with a very abusive boyfriend who would rape, and beat her repeatedly. How he would control her life, who she saw and who she could be friends with, James wants to control every aspect of her life. It would take her four years to escape this torment but she would always be looking over her shoulder waiting for him to pounce. Sue is a mother who is searching for answers while being scared that her past might be catching up with her. She is chasing down every lead she can to find out who may know just a titbit of information so she can put together what happened to her daughter. At the same time envelopes appear reminding her of her past life and she is now in a state of paranoia scared and angry. Nobody seems to be interested in finding out the truth, while thinking Sue is having a mental health episode that she needs to be medicated and humoured. Sue is our narrator throughout the book and at times you feel her irrationality will do more harm than good but it is through her eyes we see the desperate drive to find out why her daughter is in a hospital in a coma. There are so many secrets and lies throughout the narrative it is a reminder that we all carry baggage that we are not proud of and sometimes the answers are not really what we want to hear. We have this in abundance with Sue and Brian, and then with Charlottes friends the secrets that they are keeping from Sue. It is through her determination that she finds the answers to the secrets whether they are the things she wants to discover you will have to read to find out. This book is a wonderful examination of the secrets and lies we all tell each other sometimes to protect one another, but does it really help when someone is in a coma? As a reader you will want Sue to succeed in her search and you feel the psychological torment that she is going through every step of the way. Sue shows that she is willing to fight for her daughter all the way to the end even when her husband does not believe her whether she finds the secret well read the book to find out. You will not be disappointed by Cally Taylor\u2019s debut just remember not to upset her, a woman scorned and all .... ...more There are so many wonderful psychological thrillers around at the moment - for anyone who doesn't read much in this genre, do try Paula Daly's Just What Kind Of Mother Are You?, Elizabeth Haynes\u2019 Into The Darkest Corner, Elizabeth Forbes\u2019 Nearest Thing To Crazy or MJ Arlidge\u2019s Eeny Meeny. And here's another - CL Taylor's The Accident sits more than comfortably with that illustrious company. There are times when reading can just be reading, but this was one of those books that had me reading into There are so many wonderful psychological thrillers around at the moment - for anyone who doesn't read much in this genre, do try Paula Daly's Just What Kind Of Mother Are You?, Elizabeth Haynes\u2019 Into The Darkest Corner, Elizabeth Forbes\u2019 Nearest Thing To Crazy or MJ Arlidge\u2019s Eeny Meeny. And here's another - CL Taylor's The Accident sits more than comfortably with that illustrious company. There are times when reading can just be reading, but this was one of those books that had me reading into the early hours, and when I wasn't reading it was constantly in my thoughts. Very cleverly constructed, the book alternates between Sue's present life - the wife of an MP, mother in a nursing home, now coping with her daughter in a coma having apparently stepped in front of a bus - and her life when she was younger. She investigates her daughter's life to try and find out how and why it happened, and it turns out to be the kind of secret life every mother would dread uncovering. The clever part is that we know Sue has had mental issues - we're never entirely sure, seeing everything through Sue's eyes, whether what we're seeing is entirely real or Sue's interpretation of the truth, coloured by her earlier experiences. I love an unreliable narrator, and this is so well handled - her younger life, though, is told through diary entries so we know it's a reliable account, and we also know (and fear and dread) that past and present are bound to collide at some point. There is real evil in these pages, convincingly drawn, and there were parts I found quite terrifying. But there's lightness and some humour too - this book is so well written, totally gripping, and highly recommended. The Accident will be published on 10th April in Kindle and paperback formats by Avon Books. My thanks to netgalley and the publishers for my advance reading e-copy. At the time of writing, it's available for Kindle on pre-order for 99p via Amazon UK. ...more The Accident is a fast paced psychological thriller from debut author, C.L. Taylor. Desperate to understand why her comatose 15 year old daughter would deliberately step into the path of a bus, Susan Jackson begins a frenzied hunt for clues amongst the secrets her daughter kept from her. As Susan slowly begins to piece together information from Charlotte's diary, phone and friends, shocking evidence of betrayal and blackmail begins to emerge, along with ugly secrets from Susan's own past. The auth The Accident is a fast paced psychological thriller from debut author, C.L. Taylor. Desperate to understand why her comatose 15 year old daughter would deliberately step into the path of a bus, Susan Jackson begins a frenzied hunt for clues amongst the secrets her daughter kept from her. As Susan slowly begins to piece together information from Charlotte's diary, phone and friends, shocking evidence of betrayal and blackmail begins to emerge, along with ugly secrets from Susan's own past. The author nurtures an uneasy atmosphere from the first few pages of The Accident, building mistrust and dread as the story unfolds. Surrounded by secrets and lies, Susan doesn't know where to turn or how to make sense of the information she learns but is certain she can find the truth, even if everyone else believes she is simply chasing ghosts. Taylor quickly establishes Susan an an unreliable narrator, Susan is deeply distressed and confused as you would expect of a mother whose child is lying in a coma but it soon becomes obvious that she is also unusually neurotic, and paranoid. While the present day, first person narrative communicates Susan's growing nervousness and fear, it's Susan's journal excerpts from 22 years earlier that helps to explain why she is so anxious. A well crafted thriller, The Accident is fast paced and tense, culminating in a dramatic conclusion. A strong debut, I'd recommend it particularly to those who enjoyed Kimberly McCreight's novel, Reconstructing Amelia . ...more An easy book to read, not overly heavy. I would say this book is more of a \"summer read\". I guessed a couple of the incidents before they happened but they may just because I read so many of these type of novels. I found a few of the situations the protagonist Sue is in as highly improbable and whoever did the proofreading did a woeful job when it came to the grammar. Three quarters of the way through the book I was considering 5 stars sadly the last quarter disappointed me because of the improbab An easy book to read, not overly heavy. I would say this book is more of a \"summer read\". I guessed a couple of the incidents before they happened but they may just because I read so many of these type of novels. I found a few of the situations the protagonist Sue is in as highly improbable and whoever did the proofreading did a woeful job when it came to the grammar. Three quarters of the way through the book I was considering 5 stars sadly the last quarter disappointed me because of the improbability and grammar I decided to give it 3.5 stars but will give 4 stars because of it being a debut! This book is also known under the name of \"BEFORE I WAKE\" ...more Fast-paced, easy read, but implausible. Although halfway through the book you already know more or less what's going on, I hated the ending. The characters were not likeable at all, and I really didn't get why Charlotte jumped in front of the bus. I didn't gave it just 1 star, but 2, because I loved Sue's diary entries. They were hard to read, sad, but real. The abuse she suffered and why she stayed actually made me cry. Creepy, addictive and terrifying. I read it in two sittings, unable to put it down. It might just be me, but I thought the husband Brian was a complete tosser. He wasn't supportive, he was condescending and in his own way abusive. When you make someone feel small, insignificant or make them feel as if they are losing their mind then that counts as emotional abuse in my book. Brian is fully aware of her past, and instead of understanding her fears, flashbacks and insecurities he treats her as if she belongs in the looney bin. Her daughter is in a coma does he expect her to dance It might just be me, but I thought the husband Brian was a complete tosser. He wasn't supportive, he was condescending and in his own way abusive. When you make someone feel small, insignificant or make them feel as if they are losing their mind then that counts as emotional abuse in my book. Brian is fully aware of her past, and instead of understanding her fears, flashbacks and insecurities he treats her as if she belongs in the looney bin. Her daughter is in a coma does he expect her to dance an Irish jig and throw a party? It is only natural for Sue to be emotionally distraught. Sue knows deep down inside that something just isn't right and she is determined to follow the niggling feeling of doubt all the way to the truth, whether the truth is good or bad. Everyone is so busy dismissing her gut instincts that no person is actually looking for the reason Charlotte chose to do what she did. At the same time Sue experiences something nearly all parents of teenagers go through, realizing that their child has secrets from them and is in the process of building a path of independence, which ultimately usually leads to them leaving the nest. Finding out that your child not only has secrets is one thing; however finding out that those secrets might be endangering their life is another matter entirely. I don\u2019t think Sue understands how her past relationships have influenced her behaviour towards life and the people she loves. Her anxiety, fears and paranoia have been projected on to her daughter, ergo resulting in the daughter hiding things from her parents. The Accident is actually a very realistic account of the repercussions of abuse even years after the abuse has taken place. It is often always an underlying issue for those that have experienced it and can affect all future relationships and dynamics. The story also sheds light on the fact that some abusers, especially in domestic abuse cases, never give up. Some of them perceive the abused to be their possession and will persevere in their destructive tactics till the bitter end. Often that end means death to the abused. Society still doesn't take that threat seriously enough, which statistics clearly show. If anything this story is a great way to enhance the fact that society, government, law enforcement and we the people should be doing more to help stop the abusers. Far too often someone out there says \u2018I think he(or she) is going to kill me one day\u2019 and far too often that person is or was right. We need to listen to them before and not after the fact, when it is too late to save them. I received a copy of this book via NetGalley. ...more Fifteen year old Charlotte is lying in a hospital bed in a coma. She stepped out in front of a bus. Her mother Sue is convinced that this was not an accident. She doesn't believe that Charlotte was distracted by her phone, or her iPod, or someone across the street. Sue thinks that Charlotte tried to take her own life. She has a reason to think that because she read her daughter's diary, she read the entry that says \"keeping this secret is killing me\". Sue is determined to find out the truth, to f Fifteen year old Charlotte is lying in a hospital bed in a coma. She stepped out in front of a bus. Her mother Sue is convinced that this was not an accident. She doesn't believe that Charlotte was distracted by her phone, or her iPod, or someone across the street. Sue thinks that Charlotte tried to take her own life. She has a reason to think that because she read her daughter's diary, she read the entry that says \"keeping this secret is killing me\". Sue is determined to find out the truth, to find out what this secret is. She's suspicious of everyone - of her husband, of Charlotte's boyfriend, her best friend, her teachers, she knows that someone knows something but nobody is talking. Sue is a troubled, nervous woman. Wife of a Member of Parliament, mother to the beautiful Charlotte, but she appears almost neurotic at times, she's paranoid and suspicious. Her husband and step-son obviously worry about her too, they lived through Sue's breakdown in the past. Are her suspicions real? Is Sue having another mental breakdown? Is she reliable? Can we trust her? Alongside the main thread of the story, the author has included diary entries dating back twenty years. This is Sue's past story, written in her own words and tell the story of her relationship with James, her ex-boyfriend. It is these diary entries that explain to the reader just why Sue acts as she does today. Sue was broken by James, broken almost beyond repair, and although she has managed to make a new life, it's clear that inside her there are still some pieces that haven't yet healed. The Accident is a tense, tightly plotted and incredibly compelling story. There were times during the story that I felt chilled by the menace, so much so that I actually had to put the book down for a while. The story builds, the pace quickens and the suspense is quite electrifying. C L Taylor has dealt with some disturbing issues within The Accident. The story is steeped in secrets and lies and how these can impact on relationships with those closest to us. Using stark language that doesn't hide anything, the reader is exposed to violence in the form of physical attacks, sexual assault and most chillingly; emotional abuse. Having once been in a relationship with a man who was extremely emotionally abusive, it was these passages that affected me the most - the authenticity of the writing, the exact mannerisms and words - this is extremely impressive writing. Incredibly convincing, The Accident is a gripping read that will stay in my head for a long time. ...more Oh Sue. Poor poor Sue. Everything awful that could ever happen to a woman has happened to Sue, and now her 15 year old daughter is in a coma after being hit by a bus. Sue is convinced that this was a suicide attempt, but nobody else believes her, and obviously this means she's mad as she has suffered from mental illness in the past. This book started out so well, with such promise, and I felt that the beginning had come as an inspiration to the author. However, the inspiration soon fizzled out, l Oh Sue. Poor poor Sue. Everything awful that could ever happen to a woman has happened to Sue, and now her 15 year old daughter is in a coma after being hit by a bus. Sue is convinced that this was a suicide attempt, but nobody else believes her, and obviously this means she's mad as she has suffered from mental illness in the past. This book started out so well, with such promise, and I felt that the beginning had come as an inspiration to the author. However, the inspiration soon fizzled out, leaving a formulaic plot, with unlikeable and unbelievable characters acting out increasingly unlikely scenarios. the nightclub scene was hilarious - I don't know of any London nightclub that would have an issue with a 43 year old woman gaining access (and being a 43 year old London woman, I felt quite affronted!). But even the hilarity of THIS scene paled compared to the climax which I did have a giggle at. Even the sentences seemed to lack enthusiasm, not knowing when to stop - they just seemed to go on and on for no reason (apart from racking up the word count). Less is more. And in this case, more was most definitely less. I probably would have left a short, non-committal review but the icing on the cake was the sentence \"He probably thinks I'm about to do a Sylvia Plath and walk into the sea.\" Oh dear. Now, that jarred with me, but I thought \"Oh no - I must have got my Plath and Woolf mixed up!\" so I did a quick Google to check. Perhaps the author should have done a quick Google herself before she hit 'Publish'. ...more Awesome book! I read this in hours, could not put it down, it was so much better than I had expected. Great plot, characters that had depth, fast pace, twist and turns, page turning hold your breath moments and a few gasps. Yes, a brilliant read. This psychological thriller tackles some tough and raw real life issues like emotional abuse in a way that may educate those who know nothing of how insidious it is. With her daughter in a coma after seemingly stepping in from of a bus, her mother, Sue i Awesome book! I read this in hours, could not put it down, it was so much better than I had expected. Great plot, characters that had depth, fast pace, twist and turns, page turning hold your breath moments and a few gasps. Yes, a brilliant read. This psychological thriller tackles some tough and raw real life issues like emotional abuse in a way that may educate those who know nothing of how insidious it is. With her daughter in a coma after seemingly stepping in from of a bus, her mother, Sue is compelled to find out why, no matter what the cost. The book flits back to diary entries that give us background on who Sue is today and why she's the woman she is. She's like any true loving mother, unwilling to give up on her child. The ending is nail bitingly thrilling, as are other parts of this clever novel too, I felt like I was right there with Sue on the journey. There are some shocking scenes in this book but very realistic too, don't let that put you off, grab on to this book, turn off your phone and emails and just read it. Absolutely loved it. ...more This did not grab me at all. It seemed pretty standard 'thriller 101' stuff, with a Norman Bates-type stalker and not a 'whodunnit', but a 'whatdunnit' mystery relating to the daughter's coma. I really didn't care about any of it, and I was surprised to read in the author interview at the end of the book that she'd used some of her experiences as inspiration as neither the story nor the characters rang true for me. Overall, very blah and bland. This was a very good story indeed and I only knocked it off one star because I paid for it and it had more mistakes than I'd expect in a bought book although the author is far from alone. Bestsellers have plenty in as well !! I had to laugh near the beginning where Sue tells us she believes her hubby as she's rifling through his pockets !!I think she doth protest too much. I was shocked they'd not looked for their daughter's mobile immediately considering that no teenager would ever be parted fro This was a very good story indeed and I only knocked it off one star because I paid for it and it had more mistakes than I'd expect in a bought book although the author is far from alone. Bestsellers have plenty in as well !! I had to laugh near the beginning where Sue tells us she believes her hubby as she's rifling through his pockets !!I think she doth protest too much. I was shocked they'd not looked for their daughter's mobile immediately considering that no teenager would ever be parted from their one. I also wondered at her mention of her mum maybe not knowing her back in the James days as that was 2 decades prior to the present day. I found it a little hard to believe she'd been ill that long. I also wasn't keen on the dog always being put in the porch. Sounded like the poor animal spent her life in the porch ! There was a mention of four years spent with James whereas I only thought she was with him for two and at the end Sue's diary entries from fifteen years' before were referred to but I thought they were written twenty years ago ! There were some laugh-out-loud sentences along the way and I also liked the mention for Chris and what she wrote right at the very end of the book. Aggravatingly, she went with American spellings almost throughout the book which always annoys me in a story set over here. Like moisturizer,realizing.....and all of a sudden she used recognise and empathise. Most peculiar. There were also the usual e-book apostrophe errors, too. It's shocking that these occur in probably 98% of the books I've read on my Kindle. Then mark was used instead of mask and handing and not landing (!!)and a classic-poofs used when pouffes was meant and also chords and not cords. One line was strange-\"You didn't deserve me to swear that\".......terrible English. It's bad so many obvious mistakes got through in the finished article. A shame. Also a question-\"He did wear any jewellery\" ? Just a bit careless. For a first book it is very good indeed. I looked for more by her and there isn't anything as yet though it must be coming and I''ll certainly read more by her for sure. ...more This is one of those books which I was unsure about for the first few chapters, unsure as to whether or not I would be able to get into it. Now whilst it may have taken me a while to get into, once I managed to truly get into the story I was gripped. The story flickers between the heart-breaking events of the present and diary entries from Sue\u2019s past, allowing two events to unfold before us. In the present day Sue is dealing with the events surrounding her daughter having walked in front of a bus This is one of those books which I was unsure about for the first few chapters, unsure as to whether or not I would be able to get into it. Now whilst it may have taken me a while to get into, once I managed to truly get into the story I was gripped. The story flickers between the heart-breaking events of the present and diary entries from Sue\u2019s past, allowing two events to unfold before us. In the present day Sue is dealing with the events surrounding her daughter having walked in front of a bus, and in the past we see the abusive relationship which Sue suffered in her earlier years. Sue is convinced that there is a link between the two, even if it is only something as tentative as her daughter having a relationship which mirrors her past in the smallest of ways, and that there must be some reason for her daughter having made the choice that she did, however being somewhat unreliable it is difficult for anyone \u2013 including Sue \u2013 to tell whether she is seeing connections or whether she is simply imagining things to be there (many examples could be used at this point but to do that would reveal a great number of red herring moments which will leave you shocked when you find out the truth). Due to the story being written from Sue\u2019s unreliable point of view you would think that the story would be hard to keep up with, however through this we simply get into Sue\u2019s mind and the story moves forward at a great pace. With a brilliant ending you will most certainly enjoy all the build-up throughout. It really was much better than I had originally expected of it. ...more I literally could not put this book down. It completely took over my life! I felt like I had to personally help Sue find out what had happened and why her daughter had done what she did. I wanted to shake her husband to do the same, but he didn\u2019t seem as concerned and this troubled me somewhat. As a mother, I felt that I would do anything it took to find out what had happened to my child, whether it seemed obsessive or not and knew exactly what Sue was doing, I felt for her so much. CL Taylor ma I literally could not put this book down. It completely took over my life! I felt like I had to personally help Sue find out what had happened and why her daughter had done what she did. I wanted to shake her husband to do the same, but he didn\u2019t seem as concerned and this troubled me somewhat. As a mother, I felt that I would do anything it took to find out what had happened to my child, whether it seemed obsessive or not and knew exactly what Sue was doing, I felt for her so much. CL Taylor managed to drag out all my motherly instincts and understand that Sue had to turn into a protector and warrior ready to take on the world and fix everything for her child! I found myself holding my breath in several parts of the book, it was completely deep, dark and thrilling and had me engrossed and riveted right from the start, through every page, to the end. An incredibly brilliant read and I hope the first of many for CL Taylor in this genre. ...more Charlotte is fifteen and lying in a coma, after walking in front of a bus. Sue, her mum, finds out Charlotte is hiding secrets and becomes determined to find out the truth. What made Charlotte choose death over life? We find out about Sue's past and how she survived domestic abuse. Sue's past has relevance to the present. A really enjoyable solid psychological crime read, that has themes of domestic violence and secrecy. I was pleased to see it was set in Brighton!!!!! It wasn't overly sentiment Charlotte is fifteen and lying in a coma, after walking in front of a bus. Sue, her mum, finds out Charlotte is hiding secrets and becomes determined to find out the truth. What made Charlotte choose death over life? We find out about Sue's past and how she survived domestic abuse. Sue's past has relevance to the present. A really enjoyable solid psychological crime read, that has themes of domestic violence and secrecy. I was pleased to see it was set in Brighton!!!!! It wasn't overly sentimental in the way it portrayed a mother fighting for her child, which I approve of. For me, the outstanding part of the story came from Sue and her history with James. I thought it was particularly well told, believable and rather sad. I could imagine this as a drama on TV. Thank you to everyone who recommended it to me!!!! ...more Hmmm .. I have a couple of problem's with this book, the main one being the tag line 'You took my child - now i'll take yours' .. it give's the whole story away in one sentence because after a couple of chapter's it's so obvious what's happend. The other one is that what could have been a story laden with suspense is completely ruined by Sue 'seeing' James in every fella she meet's ... it's such an over egged pudding that i was relieved when she finally did see him. However, it is a well structu Hmmm .. I have a couple of problem's with this book, the main one being the tag line 'You took my child - now i'll take yours' .. it give's the whole story away in one sentence because after a couple of chapter's it's so obvious what's happend. The other one is that what could have been a story laden with suspense is completely ruined by Sue 'seeing' James in every fella she meet's ... it's such an over egged pudding that i was relieved when she finally did see him. However, it is a well structured read with the alternating timeline's and i do like the premise of if everybody think's your mad how do you prove your not?? The chapter's zip along & what little tension there is does mount toward's the end .... But, whoever decided on that tag line should be sacked as it's such a spoiler & C.L.Taylor just need's to understand the concept of less is more. ...more Sue Jackson's daughter Charlotte is in a coma after having been hit by a bus. Sue tries to discover what exactly happened, Charlotte's diary indicates something was greatly amiss. Sue gives all the signs of being an unreliable narrator, so it's difficult to know whether her suspicions are correct or if they are a part of some recurring paranoia. It took a while to get into the story, but the middle of the book is pretty riveting. Overall it's not stellar though, and I haven't decided just how mu Sue Jackson's daughter Charlotte is in a coma after having been hit by a bus. Sue tries to discover what exactly happened, Charlotte's diary indicates something was greatly amiss. Sue gives all the signs of being an unreliable narrator, so it's difficult to know whether her suspicions are correct or if they are a part of some recurring paranoia. It took a while to get into the story, but the middle of the book is pretty riveting. Overall it's not stellar though, and I haven't decided just how much I dislike the ending. I will be reading more of this author regardless, it's easy entertainment. Easily read, quickly forgotten. ...more Interesting start, bogged-down middle, pantomime end.<---C>C.L. Taylor</---C>", "Title": "The Accident"},
