{"Comments": "After two-and-a-half years,<---M> five Moleskines</---M>, many notepads, more than five-hundred-thousand words written, stroked, typed, deleted... finally the TRUST TRILOGY is complete with the publication of TRUST: PANDORA's BOX on April 17th, 2014. I found many, many friends along this long, happy, fulfilling, yet arduous road. Here I thank them, in alphabetic order, so not to hurt feelings, and because each and every one is as important as the next. If I forgot to name someone, I apologize and believe me, After two-and-a-half years, five Moleskines, many notepads, more than five-hundred-thousand words written, stroked, typed, deleted... finally the TRUST TRILOGY is complete with the publication of TRUST: PANDORA's BOX on April 17th, 2014. I found many, many friends along this long, happy, fulfilling, yet arduous road. Here I thank them, in alphabetic order, so not to hurt feelings, and because each and every one is as important as the next. If I forgot to name someone, I apologize and believe me, you\u2019ll always be etched in my heart. To my terrific beta readers, whose inestimable opinions helped me a lot: Eugenia Jaeger, Haylee Tippett, Leta Fisher, Natalie Gerber, Niyati Mavinkurve, Stacey Price and Svetlana Len. Also, I have to thank my especial Advanced Readers: Aarati S, Jillian Michel, Linda Sims and Tammy Thompson. The precious bloggers, whose arms were always opened to interview me, post my opinions, read, review, and promote my books; love and hate Sophia, Ethan, Alistair and even myself; without you, the Trust Trilogy would still be lying somewhere in the back of my drawer, collecting dust: Ana Neves at O Mundo Encantado dos Livros; Braine at TalkSupe; Divya Nambiar at Criti\u2026que\u2026not\u2026Criti..cize; Gillian Pemberton at Tatooed Book Review; John Henneshy at The Write Thought; Mason Canyon at Thought in Progress; Melissa Robles, at The Reader and the Chef; Michelle Bowman at We Love Kink; Nyiati Mavinkurve at Books, Food and Me; S\u00f3nia Costa at SBookLover Reviews; Samantha Martin at FairieTaleBooks; Roxanne Roads at Bewitching Book Tours, WildAboutBones, at Cover Reveals and @CoverReveals; all the bloggers on Facebook, and so many, many others that these pages wouldn\u2019t be enough. To a few Goodreads nominated friends - you represent many others too - who have helped me along the road when I needed it. Thanks, you are awesome: - Aaron Powell, for all your tips, and for our many chats. Ah! And yeah, for teaching me that sometimes saying \u2018F*** you, bitch!\u2019 is okay and relieving, although I\u2019m not quite used to it yet. \u2018Damn you!\u2019 still sounds better, Marine; - Dolors Casas, for gifting me Fernando Pessoa\u2019s The Book of Disquiet . It has become one of my bedside-shelf books; and especially for your inspiring and sensitive insights regarding Vietnam and Cambodia - and the artistic photos taken by your boyfriend, Aitor B\u00f2rras - which took me there when my broken foot kept me here, chained to a wheelchair. You became a most special friend, Dolors; - Edward M Wolfe, for being so intuitive, sensible and a witty man, who knows how to treat women. Your messages always put a smile on my face and make me laugh. You are a rare specimen; - Jillian Michel, for your incomparable contribution, catching the last infernal typos, which drive me crazy; and for your impressive punctual remarks, which made me feel that I had done the correct thing, even if that was making you cry. Sorry, dear, but pregnancy hormones are deliciously infectious; - Leta Fisher, the blonde, smiling mermaid, for taking such extraordinary photos of my books; - Niyati Mavinkurve, for your discernment and for your understanding of the Indian female society. Don\u2019t you ever stop dreaming; - Sagar Das (Silvermoon), my intelligent, geek friend, for your assistance dissecting the confusing world of White, Gray and Black hackers and the auto-destroying passwords; - S\u00f3nia Costa, for being so true about this illusional world of writing. I guess we discovered its truthfulness together; - Steve Sckenda, for all the magnificent reviews you wrote on your Goodreads profile. They made me think and learn, and this is absolutely priceless. All my fans, for their incredible reviews: Thanks for your time dedicated to writing them. Now, for my right and left hands - and feet too: - My cover designer, Renata Fontanive, for being, from the start, my most constant and reliable partner, helping me not only with the awesome covers, but with the elegant personal cards, bookmarks and tips.<---F> You\u2019re the best</---F>. - My funny, patient, loving editor, Edward M Wolfe, who was always available; who chatted and laughed with me; who supported and virtually hugged me through my crying moments; who explained all my doubts and answered asap all my emails, no matter if he had already eaten or not; during day, night and weekends; and for his icy-cold editing, not applauding me but for once (you, ogre!) as he was searching for the flaws, mistakes, wrong tones and pointing them out to me, so, in his own words: \u2018To remove the fly from the ointment.\u2019 Thank you, Edward, I\u2019m sure you made my manuscript way better and consistent as it could never be without your professional - and friendly - editing. You have a special place in my heart; - Stefania Angelieri Cicogna, who helps me design the arts for the Facebook posts and much more, thank you for being so sweet; - Also, I could not forget to thank Carla Kasumi Atkins, who in spite of not finishing the editing of this installment with me, helped me with its planning and the grammar correction and insights of its first manuscript. NOW! For the hearts of my heart, in chronological order of arrival in my life, my biggest thanks: My parents, Sergio & Lilian Allevato, for being proud of my work; My brother, Sergio Allevato, my best friend, who drew the most amazing eyes for the first cover and commented on all the others; My broad, six-foot-six, stubborn, loving husband, Raphael Jos\u00e9, who hated this trilogy with all his might. In spite of his many official (and unofficial) complaints against it, he supported and helped me, as any other husband wouldn\u2019t do, through all those long two-and-a-half years. My brilliant, older daughter Raphaela, who cried and hated me when I killed Ethan\u2019s dog in the first installment, but encouraged me when I couldn\u2019t write a (view spoiler) [certain scene - You didn't think I was going to tell you, did you, guys?! (hide spoiler) ] Go figure! My blue-eyed, spirited, youngest daughter Giovanna, who since she was a toddler called my books and my Kindle \u2018The Enemy\u2019 , and was so much jealous of this trilogy, but never failed to like my FB posts and even planned an exclusive cheer-leader performance for TRUST; And last but not least, a prayer to my real companion on those long, long hours, Duda, my husband\u2019s British Bulldog, who slept and snored through all those lines. He passed away just a few days after I finished this last book. I miss you, Duda, and I hope you are in Heaven; I feel that I have completed a very important stage of my life and that without your help I wouldn't be here now. (That doesn't mean I'll stop writing... Give me just a few months...) For all of you, who have accompanied me on this journey, my heartfelt thanks. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more 10 brilliant gold stars! The waiting was worth it! This is the best - the best without a doubt - trilogy I have ever read and if I thought the second book was spectacular, this one is the most affecting and stunning of the three. A New Beginning brought us the characters and places. Betrayed showed us their secrets, sharing their hurtful past and struggling present. Now, the opening of <+++>Trust: Pandora's Box</+++> shoves us into a world so full of emotions, that I laughed and hated, loved and cried, hurt 10 brilliant gold stars! The waiting was worth it! This is the best - the best without a doubt - trilogy I have ever read and if I thought the second book was spectacular, this one is the most affecting and stunning of the three. A New Beginning brought us the characters and places. Betrayed showed us their secrets, sharing their hurtful past and struggling present. Now, the opening of <+++>Trust: Pandora's Box</+++> shoves us into a world so full of emotions, that I laughed and hated, loved and cried, hurt and smiled much more than I did in the previous two. There is no way to summarize the story of this third book without giving its plot away, so I'll stick with the praises. Even more fast paced than Betrayed, PB had me sitting on the edge of my chair for many nights as I drank its plot without blinking. It's not only Sophia and Alistair's love, or their relationship that grabbed me, but the entire plot as it unfolds and careens down to its magnificent ending, full of wonderful messages and quotes, written in a magical, lyrical prose (and steamy too). Although, for sure it has its tragic moments - in one I had to stop crying to continue reading - there's not crying on every page, as there is not sex scenes on every page too (Thanks, Cris! I was missing steamy books with plots!!). This book has so many beautiful moments where healing, hope, friendship and love abound that I even became team Ethan by the middle of it - and it was not because I wanted a love triangle, no. It was not because I wasn't team Alistair anymore, no. It was because I was TEAM SOPHIA too. Sophia is one of the most strong leading female characters I have ever read about: strong, assertive, gentle, loving, a good friend, a good mother, a woman that had no doubts about her desires and is sure about her dislikes. FOR SURE I BECAME TEAM CRISTIANE SERRUIA forever! This was hands down one of the BEST books I've ever read. Seriously! Ever! There were moments when I laughed hard. There were moments when I cried hard too... tears of joy and tears of pain, but even my tears of sadness, especially the last ones, had a touch of happiness too because the way the scene was done was touching, gentle and freeing. Mostly I spent my time wishing Sophia, Alistair, Ethan and Gabriela, also their families, were real persons and my friends.... and I know you will feel this way too. I thank the author for letting me help her as a beta reader! ...more What to say if my thoughts are completely jumbled, my eyes are red from crying and my heart is hurting with sadness and joy? I can't do this, but with the help of the author I will try. Apologies in advance for using her beautiful words for writing my review. And no spoilers, in spite, or better, because there are so many twists that the plot turns out to be completely different from what I had imagined. While waiting a long time for this installment, I had read book one and two a couple of times What to say if my thoughts are completely jumbled, my eyes are red from crying and my heart is hurting with sadness and joy? I can't do this, but with the help of the author I will try. Apologies in advance for using her beautiful words for writing my review. And no spoilers, in spite, or better, because there are so many twists that the plot turns out to be completely different from what I had imagined. While waiting a long time for this installment, I had read book one and two a couple of times again, after the closing scene on Trust: Betrayed : that wonderful, happy wedding and that wondrous scene where Sophia shared her most precious treasure with Alistair, I was in cloud nine. I started this book like this: Yes, I'm a pretty romantic woman, in the cusp of maturity, and I still have pretty romantic ideas in my mind. But as things progressed, after the honeymoon, routine started to impose on Ethan, Sophia and Alistair and then I was: And immediately started to underline quotes, a few I add to Grs's quotes and other I'll transcribed here: Sometimes, silence speaks louder than words. Just because it is peaceful, it doesn\u2019t mean it is still and void, as a few may think. It is insightful, powerful and full of meaning. It is when one can\u2019t lie to oneself. You have to learn to listen to what she is not saying. Listen to her silence. And listen to yours, too. <---A>Cristiane Serruya</---A>, in Pandora's Box Sometimes the truth is too hard, it doesn't matter if Alistair believes in his family's motto: Veritas Vos Liberabit , he himself has difficult dealing with it. And silence seemed easier. But if silence is noy understood, it corrupts, festers and rots. Sophia, Ethan and Alistair have too many silent truths inside themselves, begging to be bared and discovered, screaming to be soothed and unveiled into a less harsh reality. The leading characters don't allow people inside because they can't answer questions that are deeply buried, afraid of opening Pandora's Box and unleashing in the world demons they are not capable of controlling. But that is exactly what one man has been doing. Or rather, a team of evil men gathered together to destroy the so hard achieved peace the couple has found and the one Ethan is struggling to discover. But A mirror does not exist by itself. A mirror is a half. Half is done by the piece. The other half has to be done by the beholder. You need to be the half to see what you\u2019re looking for, so the mirror can exist. As you should do with other persons. Cristiane Serruya, in Pandora's Box What does it happens when you open yourself to the other and see, discover that everything that you have ever been missing, that has ever been eating your guts was just there to calm you, within the reach of your stretched hand, the blink of your eyes? That all you have to do is bare yourself and see the other for what he is? \u201cWe are not wasted sacrifices,\u201d he whispered to himself, astonished at his though. \u201cNever!\u201d She put her hand over his. \u201cYou are not alone in your path, Ethan. In all the quiet voices and damaged hearts of those fragile survivors who were violently silenced, you will find an enormous treasure. Because as you do , they also know .\u201d He stared at her, incredulous. \u201cAll I have to do is\u2026 just love?\u201d Oh, Ethan. \u201cYes. The thing is, it\u2019s not only you how just have to love. Yes, it\u2019s a start. A great one, but\u2026 We have to make this love spread.\u201d Struggling with the stubborn tears that clogged her throat, she chewed her bottom lip for a second. \u201cIf all of us in the world just loved, just a little, charity foundations wouldn\u2019t be needed.\u201d Cristiane Serruya, in Pandora's Box Exactly because of those many deeply secrets, Pandora's Box is opened and inside it not only has dark secrets, but loads of money wanting to be shared by greedy, jealous and evil men. When his team is gathered, the twists and turns of the events will thrust you into a suspense that will culminate in many sad moments and extremely joyful ones. This plot is absolutely wonderful and the author's writing is even better. Cristiane Serruya will enslave you from the first page, and trust me, as Sophia has been shackled by the Cartier Love bracelet, you will be shackled by this book to its very end. There is cruelty beyond your imagination (not gruesome - I abhor gory scenes); self-loathing and anger yet admiration, but the best part was the undeniable friendship, respect, admiration and love that will bond the three characters until the end. I savored this book, not only once, but twice, and I can assure you that I will be on the watch for Cristiane Serruya's next work. (In fact, I have to confess, I am waiting for the bundle to be released so I can read it all again.) ...more Let's start by the end: Pandora's Box has a extremely satisfying conclusion. No questions unanswered, no ties untied, no one left hanging. Without giving anything away, I have to emphasize that this is NOT one of those books you'll want to throw against a wall (or delete from your Kindle) when you get to the end. Get ready for romance and lots of drama - yes, more drama - especially after the  of it. In an incredible different way from the second book, Cristiane Serruya makes the tension grow an Let's start by the end: Pandora's Box has a extremely satisfying conclusion. No questions unanswered, no ties untied, no one left hanging. Without giving anything away, I have to emphasize that this is NOT one of those books you'll want to throw against a wall (or delete from your Kindle) when you get to the end. Get ready for romance and lots of drama - yes, more drama - especially after the \u2154 of it. In an incredible different way from the second book, Cristiane Serruya makes the tension grow and grow; You don't want to close to book to get a few hours of sleep or to cook a quick dinner. Even when one chapter ends, she makes you want more and more. You want to know if the romance will hold and how the tragedy will unfold and when, if and how it will strike; you think you know what the next turn will be, but you don't and with each tic-toc of the clock, your heart beats faster until you think it's going to burst from your chest from the unknown. It's super-easy to miscalculate the ending, but this story wraps up just right. Unfortunately I believe some will not like one of the scenes, but it felt so right for me, that I didn't know that if my tears and sobs were of relief or pain, so beautifully done was the scene. And then, after a few more chapters in what seemed impossible, Cristiane Serruya flung an arrow in my heart. A cupid arrow. The Epilogue was spectacular! And when she wrapped the whole 3 books in just 3 powerful lines it was SOMETHING TO KILL FOR, TO DIE FOR. THEN, we have to face the way Cristiane Serruya deals with the compelling trauma and its aftereffects of her three characters, and the respectful treatment and friendship they offer each other. The characters' pasts are much, much more than dramatic events. Alistair, the oh-so-powerful and unflappable Alistair, has an ongoing struggle with the trauma of her daughter's death so deeply hidden in his threadbare soul that to discover it would be a shock. To all of us, readers (and characters, I'd say) My heart was in my throat and my eyes so full of tears that I had to stop many times to dry them, when the details of his heartbroken soul were revealed. I also loved how this book has major themes, - yes, it's a romance - but it talks about violation of women's and children's rights; of abuse; of independence, of traumas, its loss and its impacts in the lives of those who have not been taken care or when they should; The power and fragility of the creative impulse and process - how vital and irrepressible it is, and how devastating its loss can be. It's all expressed in many contexts, images and examples, and it makes Ethan's loss and devastation all the more poignant for its being so continually shoved up in his face. Another major theme is the idea of salvation, of rescue - no exactly subtle, but it's never really clear who is being saved and who is doing the saving. It is like the mirror analogy that Cristiane makes: you have to be the half to see what is inside the other. One doesn't exist alone. Simple. And so more heartbreaking in these days that our cell phones are more important than the person beside us. I also want to mention that for me one hallmark of a good book is that you fall in love with at least one of the characters. Here, you can't help but fall in love with so many of them, be them single, in pairs, or altogether wrapped in their grief or happiness. Each of them, obviously Sophia and Alistair, (and Erskine, why not say it) but also Sophia and Ethan, Sophia and Tavish, Barbara and Ethan and in a different kind of love Edward and Sophia and Scott, Sophia and Ethan, because as Cristiane demonstrates with such easiness, there are many forms of love, and - Jesus - so many others sort of love abound around those leading characters that they are all richly dimensional and again, real feeling. All those great supporting characters and scenes in between the drama and the romance that involve the three leading characters sets this book - this trilogy, this work of art - apart from any other contemporary literature erotic novel I have read. I really appreciated the care Cristiane had in building a world beyond the three main characters and the way she created a believable network of friends, family and antagonists around them. She could easily continue her work, writing about Sophia's and Alistair's families, those realistically flawed and endearing characters, that I already love, such as Felipe, Carolina, Tavish and those funny blonde twins. This is a compelling and satisfying read that will draw you into its world slowly and describable on the first book: A New Beginning, to let the readers know and connect with the surroundings and the characters; and then opening their pasts to us, and in this one, faster, in a way it will make you want to stay there for a longer time and pray that this roller-coaster never ends, even though you are dreading the high, and fearing even more the fall. I not only couldn't put it down. Toward its end, where darkness shadows the light and the days become darker, my emotions ran so intense that it made me start to cry in earnest and then began to sob and suddenly I realized I was on my feet as if I could applaud and shout Brava! , in a kind of weird unconscious standing ovation for this superb courage and virtuosi performance by an author, considered by some a beginner, and yet so polished and artistically skillful that I really can't believe this is her first trilogy. Thankfully I already know this is not her last, I have only to pray she doesn't take long to write her other works. I'm sorry the story has ended. Already I miss Gabriela, Sophia, Ethan and Alistair; I have been even dreaming with them. I'm in a serious case of abstinence. I'm proud to say that I've stumbled upon this Indie beginner author by chance, and that I have supported her when I can. As Ethan would say, I'll be \"stalking\" her from now on. Congratulations on all the covers, Cristiane. Please convey my special congratulations to your brother, Sergio (He drew the eyes for the first cover). It seems to me that you have a striking artistic vein running in your family. These covers are fantastic and they reveal your respect toward the readers. We need more than erotic novels, we need erotic novels with messages and plots, that make us think and empower us with knowledge! Very much recommended. Looking forward to much more from this talented (not any more a debutant ) author! ...more Hmm... What to say?! I feel that this trilogy have changed my life! I read this last book twice as a beta reader for he author, and another one just for myself. I\u2019m still mesmerized by its events. If I could give this book 10 bright stars I would, however Goodreads doesn't understand that some books are way too amazing to have just 5 wee stars. It touched me in a way that only a few books before it have. It left my heart aching, filled with sadness and despair, love and hope. So much hope, it to Hmm... What to say?! I feel that this trilogy have changed my life! I read this last book twice as a beta reader for he author, and another one just for myself. I\u2019m still mesmerized by its events. If I could give this book 10 bright stars I would, however Goodreads doesn't understand that some books are way too amazing to have just 5 wee stars. It touched me in a way that only a few books before it have. It left my heart aching, filled with sadness and despair, love and hope. So much hope, it took my breath away. However, I am finding it difficult to express with mere words just how much I adore this trilogy, especially this last book. Well, let me try to convey my thoughts. The only word I can think of to sum up the journey of Ethan, Sophia and Alistair\u2019s story is \"real\". About the characters and the plot ( no spoilers ): Ethan was the character that surprised me the most. I honestly hated him in the first book. I pitied him in the second book, after all I was told about his past, but still he hasn\u2019t found the way to my heart. But from this third book on, he turned out to be a great guy and I, who didn\u2019t care for him, I fell in love with Ethan. I have to say that I absolutely loved the end Cristiane gave him, even thought I was in tears. He redeemed himself in a spectacular way and if I could, I would hold him in my arms and hug him. How Cristiane Serruya did it, I\u2019m still wondering. That is what I call supreme talent. Alistair Oh, Alistair Connor\u2026 Alistair Connor is also a complex character, but I never found it hard to connect with him as I did with Ethan. In spite of hating him in the end of the first book, he is the perfect, sexy, tortured Highlander. At all times he was honest with the reader, but he held a lot of things back inside himself, in a control-freak way, keeping me wanting and waiting for him to show it all, until his dam broke in a heartbreaking, magnificent scene. I really had to stop at that scene all the three times I read it. Sophia How can you describe a perfect character with so many flaws ? Sophia is one that is too good to be true but as the mask come off, she is just like one of us, just wanting to be loved. She is the friend every one needs; the professional every woman wants to be; the mother every girl wishes she had; the woman every man desires; the human being every one wishes to be... And yet, I shook my head at Sophia in many moments and was flabbergasted at her dark secret and some unnecessary masks she wore. But as Alistair said in one of the scenes: Sophia is\u2026 \u201cSo Sophia\u201d that there is no other way to describe her. Gabriela and Tavish Uilleam. These two secondary characters are as important as the three leading ones in this book. They link the leading relationships in such amazing scenes, that without them the plot wouldn\u2019t be the same. I could go on and on, but I would spoil the twists and turns of the story for you, so: this whole trilogy is about relationship, redemption, trust, love, good, evil, actions, consequences and life, with the hot, steamy sex scenes linking the emotions all together and not compromising the story , as they are in their right place and perfect moments, written in an erotic way to showcase the feelings, not only the sex in itself. This last book wrapped up it superbly. I cannot forget to mention the therapeutic sessions. OMG! I wish I had just one psychologist as insightful as Mina or Andrew in my whole life. They are just great! The way this whole story was written; the style; the characters; how many times it made me laugh, frown, think and cry; how it took me from my comfy slumped pose in my favorite armchair where I read and put me on the edge of it, needing and dreading what would happen in its next pages; how it made me highlight so many passages full of meaning, just to stop, think and read them again, because it turned out to be a message that will accompany me for life - not at all like most of the clich\u00e9 stuff I read in books, but in huge, intelligent, elaborated paragraphs, many times using classic literature for reference (which made me become interested in other types of literature other than just contemporary erotic romance). The engaging and impressive carefulness of how Cristiane wrote her plot, especially some specific scenes, even the heartbreaking ones, is astounding, because it seems as real as if Ethan, Sophia and Alistair were there with all their love and dramas occupying your daily life and yet, like friends, they leave the right, necessary space to let you think about yours. Yep, it is all that and so much more. This whole trilogy is pure truth within a loud silence. As Dr. Volk told Alistair: Sometimes, silence speaks louder than words. Just because it is peaceful, it doesn\u2019t mean it is still and void, as a few may think. It is insightful, powerful and full of meaning. It is when one can\u2019t lie to oneself. You have to learn to listen to what she is not saying. Listen to her silence. And listen to yours, too. Cristiane Serruya, in Trust: Pandora's Box This book ruined me for all the others left to read. Easily my favorite of 2014 and all the three books of the trilogy made it to top five of all times, so I'm already mourning the loss of these characters and anxiously awaiting for more novels by Cristiane Serruya. ...more Goodreads tells us we are not obliged to write reviews... Well, this is one of those times where you find something that you have to share with the world. It's almost like an obligation, an itch you have no choice but scratch. Trust: Pandora's Box is one of the best and I'm not exaggerating, ONE OF THE BEST contemporary books I have ever read since I've been able to make sense of words. It's not everyday you come across an erotic romance (I don't like this label. This book has so much more to it) Goodreads tells us we are not obliged to write reviews... Well, this is one of those times where you find something that you have to share with the world. It's almost like an obligation, an itch you have no choice but scratch. Trust: Pandora's Box is one of the best and I'm not exaggerating, ONE OF THE BEST contemporary books I have ever read since I've been able to make sense of words. It's not everyday you come across an erotic romance (I don't like this label. This book has so much more to it) with such depths; and encompassing so many important contemporary issues that it couldn't be left forgotten. It's worth very hour you spent awake, drinking its lines and highlighting its passages. And then going back to read the passage once again, because it is so meaningful, so heartbreaking or so joyfulness. That's how good it is! The characters were so real and I was so emotionally connected to them throughout the entire story, that I am having a difficult time moving on. But do yourself a favour even though it will leave your heart bursting out of your chest, filled with raw, sad, elated and happy emotions, read this book (after TRUST#1 and TRUST#2). Don't fix yourself on wealthy properties, on bright jewels, or expensive clothes. Those are all masks to what the author are trying to show us: We are all humans, no matter what we dress, we feel the same pain, we suffer from the same traumas!! These small escapades to beautiful places and the wonderful done descriptions are just a much need break from the heart wrenching emotions that will either stretch your face in a huge smile or make you sob like a hurt child. I love - LOVE!! ADORED!! - these three broken leading characters (and the secondary ones) and their stories broke my heart, makes me fall in love and has me addicted to them. And to my entire surprise, in such a caring and loving way, Cristiane rebuilt all my mending pieces and made me whole again, with full of hope for their future. It was the best roller coaster in a long time. There is so much going in this book, so to tell you the plot, I would have to spoil the story, and I hate spoilers, so I wont tell you anything because there's so much to tell and giveaway. Secondary characters also add to this tale. The leading characters' families and employers, in particular Leo, Tavish, Gabriela and Scott - even Barbara, who didn't win my heart - are amazing\u2026and to be honest I wouldn\u2019t mind seeing Cristiane develop more trilogies for them. (I know, I'm a demanding reader!) Bottom line, this is an amazingly written end to a story of three extremely broken adults, who will find solace, strength, hope and eventually the ability to be and free themselves, through love, friendship, redemption and responsibility. No review I write can do justice to this incredible perfect story\u2026all I can leave you with, is the strong recommendation to pick this one up. I promise it will be a stand out in your shelf (or your a favorite in your tablet). This is definitively a must read! And last, because the author is such a dear, polite and intelligent lady, it left me with a feeling I should stand up and shout out loud about her work, because it ought to surpass the walls of this online club and be known world-wide. I should admonish that there are a few graphic sex scenes, but nothing shocking, much on the opposite, they are so well done, that they only bring out the strength of the characters, especially Sophia's, and also there is a hint of violence, but nothing descriptive - nothing that we and our children don't see worst on TV. So go for it and encourage your older teenagers (16 and up) to read about character, the power of standing their ground, of the powerful of choice, of saying no, the owning of their hearts to the other, to welcoming the others in need because those are the correct steps to a better world. Thank you, Cristiane Serruya, for such beautiful work of art and empowering feelings you shared with us. I can't wait for your next work. ...more I grateful to the author for a copy of this book in exchange for a review. This is the final instalment of the \"Trust\" trilogy. I have waited not very patiently for this last book! But I was totally hooked straightaway right from page one. Once again it's difficult to write a review where so much happens and I don't want to give spoilers and ruin it for others. Throughout this series Sophia's character has grown, she's always been an astute and confident business woman. But now she's become stro I grateful to the author for a copy of this book in exchange for a review. This is the final instalment of the \"Trust\" trilogy. I have waited not very patiently for this last book! But I was totally hooked straightaway right from page one. Once again it's difficult to write a review where so much happens and I don't want to give spoilers and ruin it for others. Throughout this series Sophia's character has grown, she's always been an astute and confident business woman. But now she's become stronger and more confident in her personal relationships with the other characters. For those of you who have read the first two books and were wondering with whom Sophia would finally end up with, or perhaps you were rooting for your favourite. That question is obviously answered. This story holds surprises that I didn't see coming, there are happy and very sad moments as well. I have to say that from the first book in this series (which was the authors debut) her writing has gone from strength to strength. It has been a real pleasure to read all three books. I am eager to see what she writes next. ...more This review was due for a few days because I truly didn\u2019t know where to start. Should I start with the beauty of the writing? Or with the plot? Do I start with the characters? Or with the many messages that this book has? I guess I could start with any of those. But the thing is my review wouldn\u2019t do it any justice. I mean, how do you put perfection into words? It\u2019s basically impossible. And yet Cristiane Serruya did. Pandora's Box, the last book of the TRUST trilogy was just that: perfection. Ea This review was due for a few days because I truly didn\u2019t know where to start. Should I start with the beauty of the writing? Or with the plot? Do I start with the characters? Or with the many messages that this book has? I guess I could start with any of those. But the thing is my review wouldn\u2019t do it any justice. I mean, how do you put perfection into words? It\u2019s basically impossible. And yet Cristiane Serruya did. Pandora's Box, the last book of the TRUST trilogy was just that: perfection. Each and every part of this book: the laughter, the many tears, the love and (view spoiler) [the death (YES! Expect it!) (hide spoiler) ] , all the emotions needed each other to make this plot what it is. I was fully invested in the stories of Sophia, Ethan and Alistair as if I knew them. I smiled when they smiled; I hurt when they hurt; And my heart shattered when theirs did. A great end to a great trilogy. I recommend!! ...more Seriously wow, what a conclusion to the trilogy! It was not what I expected at all (even if I did expect it to be brilliant!). I\u2019ve loved watching the author\u2019s style develop and improve as the series has gone on, from the uncertain beginnings that were full of potential to the unbelievable ending, so much stronger in style. Now I have to say that, stylistically, there will be people out there who won\u2019t like it. For me, I find that it\u2019s unique (as in, I haven\u2019t read anything like it before) and\u2026 I Seriously wow, what a conclusion to the trilogy! It was not what I expected at all (even if I did expect it to be brilliant!). I\u2019ve loved watching the author\u2019s style develop and improve as the series has gone on, from the uncertain beginnings that were full of potential to the unbelievable ending, so much stronger in style. Now I have to say that, stylistically, there will be people out there who won\u2019t like it. For me, I find that it\u2019s unique (as in, I haven\u2019t read anything like it before) and\u2026 It works !! This book is most definitely full of drama that keeps you hanging on. What other book of contemporary fiction, erotica or romance does that? It is so realistically written that you can actually imagine that it could be so. Now I don\u2019t personally know anything about the rich and famous (as I actually said in my initial review), but, even so, isn\u2019t everyone deserving of love (view spoiler) [ as Sophia so rightly said to Ethan (hide spoiler) ] ? And, just because they have wealth, it doesn\u2019t mean that their lives are easy. The \u201chappy endings\u201d might be there, but just because this story had one, doesn\u2019t mean that they\u2019ve always been there or always will be there. Life can often be like waiting for the next tragedy, but with love we can fight the hard fight and keep us pulling through. (view spoiler) [But, even so, I can\u2019t believe she killed of Ethan! At least he died a changed man, one far less troubled by his past. (hide spoiler) ] But, good stuff aside, I have to complain a tinsy bit. There were too parts to the story which I felt that they could have been a lot shorter. One was Sophia\u2019s conversation with Ethan (view spoiler) [ when she visited him at his hotel after the nightmare with his parents (hide spoiler) ] and the other was the ending. Both of these went on for a bit too long. (view spoiler) [Also, I was expecting to hear more about the birth, especially considering they were worried about Sophia requiring a caesarean again, yet Sophia had wanted to have a natural birth, or so I thought. I was a bit confused about the decisions regarding that as well! (hide spoiler) ] Also, a bit of clarification regarding certain laws in the UK (spoiler tagged): (view spoiler) [ First of all, the age of sexual consent for non-paid is actually 16. However, for those under the age of 18, it is illegal for someone in a position of trust (parent, guardian, teacher, doctor) to have sexual relations with them. As far as I\u2019m aware, these laws also take into account teenagers of a similar age, for example where one may be 15 and the other 16. This is pretty much the same throughout Western Europe. With regards to prostitution, the author is correct in that prostitution itself isn\u2019t illegal, but things such as kerb crawling, soliciting in a public place, pimping or owning a brothel are. Yet, here is the complicated part \u2013 the legal age for prostitution is actually 18! But, could Ethan have gotten into trouble because of his relationship with Eve? He didn\u2019t know she was being prostituted, so it wasn\u2019t his fault. From his side, the relationship was consensual and within the bounds of the law. More information on laws regarding Sexual Offenses can be found on the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) website . I must admit, I wasn\u2019t actually aware of the legal status of BDSM, but I have actually looked it up (my Google is going to look very interesting after this!!). Here is a quote from Practical Ethics : In the UK, it is illegal if it results in any injury which is more than \u201ctransient or trifling\u201d. Possessing extreme pornography is a criminal offence, which, for obvious reasons, may be problematic for those who are into SM. Moreover, those who engage in any kind of BDSM are not legally protected against discrimination on the basis of their sexual preferences (for example, they can be, and have been, fired for that reason). This is quite important when considering the context of the laws in the UK. I did like the afterword with the explanation of this, because this book covered very important topics. This makes this book very important in balancing out relationships that allow room for love and play, whilst also keeping in mind what is healthy as well as mutually acceptable and particularly legal, especially considering some of the books that are out there currently (as in, that atrocious greyness that we\u2019ve all been avoiding!) that would otherwise put such things in a different light. The world is a crazy and dangerous place and it doesn\u2019t need the wrong sorts of books out there making it more so! This works as such the perfect counterbalance to all that trash. (hide spoiler) ] Anyway, I\u2019ve ranted for a bit now, so I\u2019d just say to anyone reading this, just get out there and enjoy it! :) ...more I won't repeat the whole story line or describe the characters. By now, after more than 1500 pages, you should know them by heart. I do. The first book set the places and the present, hiding from us the secrets; the second one plunges us into the past, unveils the dark secrets surrounding the main characters, but still there are a few lines untied that are brilliantly secured on this third installment. It's quite hard to summarize a story, without giving away spoilers. So, I'll try to focus on the I won't repeat the whole story line or describe the characters. By now, after more than 1500 pages, you should know them by heart. I do. The first book set the places and the present, hiding from us the secrets; the second one plunges us into the past, unveils the dark secrets surrounding the main characters, but still there are a few lines untied that are brilliantly secured on this third installment. It's quite hard to summarize a story, without giving away spoilers. So, I'll try to focus on the characters and emotions: Get a fortifying port, or whisky, a box of tissues, a blanket and curl on your favorite armchair: It's time to forget your world and dive in the story. I lost count of the number of underlined passages, dog-eared pages and wondrous scenes; those kind that will make you laugh, cry, sob, stop to think and that will make you melt (and hot) wishing you had someone like Sophia, Ethan and Alistair in your life! And and Gabriela, Tavish and Leonard. The great supporting, secondary characters are there for comic relief or steadfast support - and to let you breathe when the scene is too moving or to dark - which worked extremely fine and in tandem with the leading characters. I did appreciate the extra care and attention given to Gabriela, Tavish, Leonard, Edward, Barbara and Scott. I like an author who thinks beyond the main characters and takes time to build a believable network of friends and family around them. (Recently she confessed she is planning on writing books for Sophia's siblings and Tavish Uilleam, all of them realistically flawed and endearing character, I'm sure the readers will love to know better. Compelling, respectful treatment of trauma and its aftereffects. The characters' pasts are much, much more than dramatic devices. The leading characters ongoing struggle with the trauma that changed their life are complex and well-drawn, and your heart will be in your throat when the still hidden details are slowly revealed. In spite of what we think in the 2nd book, they all got quite a wall around their hearts, but working together, they opened up, as the story unfolds, and you'll be rooting for all of them until the end. The end... My heart broken toward the \u2154 of the book. Although is was a very satisfying conclusion, it was heart-wrentching sad and at the same time bubbling happy, and subtable punishing. Without giving anything away, I have to emphasize that this is NOT one of those books you'll want to throw against a wall (or delete from your Kindle) when you get to the end. With all the drama that unfolds in all the first books, especially in this one, by the middle, I easily miscalculated the ending, but this story wraps up so right, so just right, that at the same time it left me in tears, it put a relieved smile on my face. Plus the last lines are a KILLER! Ah. The language. I could never let this go. Why people like to read so badly written books nowadays baffles me. The author does a great job in putting polite words in the characters' mouths (and dirty ones when the situation demands). It's historical Harlequin with steroids, plus a free first-class ticket to a round-the-world-trip, where emotions travel on silk woven rugs, embroidered with sadness and yellow-diamonds, happiness and forest-green tartans, life and death. (view spoiler) [Oh, yeah! More than one character dies. Which one? Ha! I won't tell, read the book! (hide spoiler) ] Don't miss this trilogy. Very much recommended. Looking forward to much more from this talented author! ...more Pandora\u2019s Box is the last book of the TRUST TRILOGY. It is the perfect wrap-up for the poignant story of three wealthy, heavily-flawed characters who have had their lives disrupted by different kinds of dramas and tragedies. They all hide in plain sight, wearing their wealthy disguises in such an aloof way that their masks entwined in their souls. They have lost their control of their own pantomimes and don\u2019t know how to find their paths to light again. And it worked for them, or so they thought Pandora\u2019s Box is the last book of the TRUST TRILOGY. It is the perfect wrap-up for the poignant story of three wealthy, heavily-flawed characters who have had their lives disrupted by different kinds of dramas and tragedies. They all hide in plain sight, wearing their wealthy disguises in such an aloof way that their masks entwined in their souls. They have lost their control of their own pantomimes and don\u2019t know how to find their paths to light again. And it worked for them, or so they thought, as they struggled in their misery, reliving their dark secrets night and day, day and night. Until they crossed paths and started their relationship. Almost everyone sees them as they hoped to be seen. Their aloofness keep others away (and even some readers, I would say) because they though it would be better that way. All but Sophia. What a marvel female leading character. Sophia has won my Oscar (as Cristiane Serruya have too). Sophia is the one that both men want and yet she is the one they had never counted on, because she sees beyond their masks and bared them to their doubts, hurtful truths and new found freedom. In equal parts, both leading characters, Ethan and Alistair, being just as broken by their own tragedies, help her deal with her dark secrets and start a new life. Twice. Twice? Yes! Once more the three are going to be broken. How? Why? No, I won't spoil it telling how or why... What started out as an extreme complicated relationship between the three in book #1, evolves into something neither one of them saw coming (nor I). But in a \"Butterfly effect\" that started in the last chapters of book #1 - because acts have consequences - everything they had achieved falls apart again. In the last 10 chapters (Pandora\u2019s Box has 40 chapters, counting the Prologue and Epilogue), when the pieces are set back in place again, the only word I have to describe how I felt is: \"rewarded\". Sophia, Ethan and Alistair\u2019s relationship (or love triangle, as a few would) is one of my all time favorites now. I loved that their relationship was complex, complicated, turbulent. And even though full of conflict, the respect, friendship, trust and hope shone through in this last book. They respected and loved each other, despite not wanting to and despite all of their secrets (view spoiler) [even in the end both men were linked by mutual respect; by Sophia respecting herself; and by her loving them in equal amount, but yet in a completely different relationship with each one of them (hide spoiler) ] . It was, at the same time, heartbreaking and heartwarming to accompany them in their seek for love, unconsciously trying to keep the others away in their fear of losing and hurting again, and, in this last book, see the three help each other to unravel the web of lies, hurt and sorrow to reach light and clean their souls; to grow and to become better, whole persons. Just one more thing: I was dreading what Ethan would do, but I was stunned by the pleasant twist in the story. I didn't expect it. It came as a complete surprise. (view spoiler) [Although very sad, as a reader I have to say I was very, very satisfied with it. (hide spoiler) ] GREAT JOB, MS. SERRUYA. GREAT JOB. ...more This is the best romance novel I\u2019ve ever read! It was perfect from start to finish. I really enjoyed the first two books in the Trust trilogy, but Pandora\u2019s Box was definitely my favorite. There wasn\u2019t a boring moment in the story, and the excitement just kept coming. I loved reading about Sophia and Alistair\u2019s romance and how they continued to grow together. They\u2019re one of my favorite fictional couples! The plot had so many twists and turns that it kept me turning pages faster than usual. I was This is the best romance novel I\u2019ve ever read! It was perfect from start to finish. I really enjoyed the first two books in the Trust trilogy, but Pandora\u2019s Box was definitely my favorite. There wasn\u2019t a boring moment in the story, and the excitement just kept coming. I loved reading about Sophia and Alistair\u2019s romance and how they continued to grow together. They\u2019re one of my favorite fictional couples! The plot had so many twists and turns that it kept me turning pages faster than usual. I was reading until the wee hours of the morning several days in a row because I couldn\u2019t get enough of my favorite characters. Sophia is such a fascinating character because she has lived through several nightmarish situations, but she somehow stays strong and has a positive attitude. When I\u2019m having a tough time, I find myself thinking, \u201cWhat would Sophia do?\u201d She\u2019s a character that will stay with you long after you finish reading this book. If you\u2019re looking for a romantic and meaningful story, then you should read Trust: Pandora\u2019s Box. I give this book five very bright stars!! ...more Apparently rational justifications will never explain all sorts of the different feelings and raw emotions art invoke in people. Cristiane Serruya, in Pandora's Box The author's words summon perfectly all the raw feelings and emotions that are running through my veins after reading such a display of intelligent and emotional power strong-willed and convincing women have and can bestow on their fellow human beings. In one word: Awesome. I have been ever so impatiently awaiting the last book in the Trust Trilogy, I just could not wait to see what was going to happen to Alistair, Sophia, and yes even Ethan. There were a few more characters that I was curious to see what was going to happen to in Pandora's Box. WOW, where do I start? Cristiane Serruya has written a conclusion to this trilogy that not only made me laugh, cry my eyes out at times, but also kept me on the edge of my seat for quite a while. Ms. Serruya has done a fabul I have been ever so impatiently awaiting the last book in the Trust Trilogy, I just could not wait to see what was going to happen to Alistair, Sophia, and yes even Ethan. There were a few more characters that I was curious to see what was going to happen to in Pandora's Box. WOW, where do I start? Cristiane Serruya has written a conclusion to this trilogy that not only made me laugh, cry my eyes out at times, but also kept me on the edge of my seat for quite a while. Ms. Serruya has done a fabulous job with this great trilogy. I've loved each one. Once I started reading Pandora's Box I quickly found my deep connection to Sophia once again. Also that precious little girl Gabriella. I also have a fondness for Alistair and only found myself wanting to smack him a time or two in between loving his relationship with Sophia and Gabriella. There is so much that happens in this book I don't want to give anything away. It's just too good for you not to get the chance to experience all the joys, sorrows, and drama for yourself. I will say that there are some very dramatic moments that left me speechless and sitting on the edge of my seat waiting to see how they were going to unfold. Ms. Serruya has a talent for capturing my attention that is for sure. In Pandora's Box a lot of things are answered that I have been wondering about through the other books. I felt a nice conclusion with this book but I also found deep sadness. I won't tell you what made me so unbelievably sad. I will tell you that if you have read the other books in this series you very well may want to grab the box of Kleenex and keep it handy for parts of Pandora's Box. I think you might need it, I know I sure did. There is plenty of steamy scenes between Alistair and Sophia, their relationship really is a strong one, built on love. Sophia has found her love and Alistair has as well. They both need each other to help heal the wounds of the past. Sophia knows she can count on Alistair to be there when she needs him the most and he is. Let me see what more may I tell you about this fabulous story that will not give to much away? I think that even if you have not read the other two books in this trilogy you will enjoy this book. Yes, there is a lot of information in the first two but please don't let the fact you haven't read them yet keep you from grabbing this one now. I think you will enjoy it as a conclusion to the story or as a stand alone. I think this truly is my favorite book in the trilogy. This book is one very well written emotional story, with lots of drama, and some really hot and steamy scenes as well. I found myself quickly turning pages because there were so many things happening I had to find out what in the world could happen next or what new information may be revealed. As you can tell I really did enjoy this story. I can not wait to see what Cristiane Serruya may come up with for us lucky readers next. I know I sure would not hesitate to pick up another book written by her. I was given the wonderful opportunity to read this book so that I may share my thoughts with you. As always it has been my great pleasure to share my thoughts with you on Trust: Pandora's Box. ...more 4.5 In all honesty, I did not like the conclusion of the Trust Trilogy as much as the previous two books. My justifications are as follows: 1. The first few chapters were promising although when I reached the mid-chapters of the novel, it feels like I've been diverted into another path - into fringes of the story. And as I read further, more and more fork lanes sprouted from previous chapters. Actually, I am glad I've been led back to the focus and main stories of the novel. 2. Somehow, I find Eth 4.5 In all honesty, I did not like the conclusion of the Trust Trilogy as much as the previous two books. My justifications are as follows: 1. The first few chapters were promising although when I reached the mid-chapters of the novel, it feels like I've been diverted into another path - into fringes of the story. And as I read further, more and more fork lanes sprouted from previous chapters. Actually, I am glad I've been led back to the focus and main stories of the novel. 2. Somehow, I find Ethan's situation - especially his resurgence from \"his dark room\" to accepting and taking the outside world, the reality, in a more friendly and positive manner, important and relevant, and (for me), should have given more portions in the novel. I could have liked the novel with two dimensions unfolding and slowly integrating in the story (Alistair and Sophia's married life and Ethan's situation). But I gave the final installment a 4.5 because... 1. Although it can be predicted that danger follows everywhere Sophia, at most, is - I get the hints of kidnapping her in return of ransom, or sabotaging her company or her family and friends or both, or even murder. I'm banking on kidnapping and murder though but I was surprised, gladly surprised, of the outcome. Because of course, a woman as intelligent and surrounded with loved ones as Sophia, she has a very high chance not to die (and from that point, I can finally breathe throughout the novel - although her traumas recurred and I feel bad for her but hey, it's Sophia. She's just one of the few fictional heroines who still stood as a sturdy as a bamboo pole on a duration of a Category 5 hurricane, and I really admire that for her). 2. IT IS VERY RARE TO BALANCE ROMANCE BETWEEN MYSTERY AND THRILL. I MEAN, HOW MANY CONTEMPORARY ROMANCE NOVELS ARE THERE WHO CONTAIN THESE ELEMENTS BALANCED AND PERFECTLY EXECUTED? BRAVO, CRIS. BRAVO! (This element highlighted throughout the book really stunned me.) 3. Cris surfaced the facts and reality of love - its brilliance and its imperfections. No matter how perfect one is running his/her company, how he/she is accomplished in life, love is love. It and its characteristics are universal. 4. Ethan's death. (BUT WHY HAS HE GOT TO DIE? WHY? WHY? WHY?) Yes, Ethan's been battered both physically and mentally and socially, and (I think) it's just to, you know, kill him? (My fangirl instincts says no) Anyways, he did not die in vain and he died free from his past troubles and he got a chance to see the real world, the world outside his \"dark room\", in a better and warmer light than before. ...more I'm so glad I won the first book on a goodreads giveaway so freaking glad. I fell in love with these characters with the story. I absolutely loved this trilogy and this last book was the perfect conclusion. Let me tell you that since the beginning of this book I liked Ethan and I was pretty shocked because in the last book he become super creepy and I just did not like him but in this one damn I fell in love with him.He finally realized that he wasn't the one for Sophia she was his best friend an I'm so glad I won the first book on a goodreads giveaway so freaking glad. I fell in love with these characters with the story. I absolutely loved this trilogy and this last book was the perfect conclusion. Let me tell you that since the beginning of this book I liked Ethan and I was pretty shocked because in the last book he become super creepy and I just did not like him but in this one damn I fell in love with him.He finally realized that he wasn't the one for Sophia she was his best friend and nothing more. When he went to India with Sophia and her crew I was thinking oh man his he going to do it?! Please do it (view spoiler) [I really wanted him to adopt that kid. It was such a beautiful scene and it left with a goofy smile on my face (hide spoiler) ] . Then there was Barbara and there were moments I thought they were going to end up together but I totally understood why Ethan did what he did. Finally Cristiane broke my heart I just couldn't believe it when I read that scene I just thought no?! And when the truth sink in and I started laughing I know it wasn't I joke but damn I just laughed and laughed and started yelling REALLY?! REALLY?! WHY?! and then obviously tears came. I think I finished this without believing what happened but I understand why she did it. Now Alistair. This dude and his sexy accent! Every time he said nae or aye I totally melted and when he called Sophia all those adorable names *-* I absolutely love him! He's just so alpha male, always trying to protect Sophia but you know she doesn't let him because she's a badass. Alistair is one of those characters that grew so much and now he's so happy and that makes me so happy too. Him and Gabriela ! They're the cutest thing ever!! Sophia is one of those characters that you just like since the beginning because she has such a strong personality and she doesn't take bulls**t from anyone. I love that about her but in this book she did annoy me about but I don't remember why so it probably wasn't important. Alistair+Sophia= AWESOMENESS !!! I love this two together!! I'm always laughing or I'm jealous because they're perfect together *-* I love when Sophia calls him Lord I\u2019m-so-handsome-and-I-know-it or Lord Caveman it's so funny!!!! I loved the ending they had and I knew the problem Alistair had had to be solved!!! I was so so so so HAPPY! :D One of the things that really makes me love this trilogy is that this isn't just about a romance it's about real things that happen in real life. ...more I read the epub version of this book on my phone and I couldn\u2019t really gauge at what point of the book I was, I just didn\u2019t want the book to end. A gripping story from the first to the last page. A story driven by love and passion with twists that keep you glued to the book. I really wish there would be a fourth installment\u2026 I think everyone who read this trilogy would like to know what happens to Sophia and Alistair next. I loved the first and second book but I think this last one is a step abo I read the epub version of this book on my phone and I couldn\u2019t really gauge at what point of the book I was, I just didn\u2019t want the book to end. A gripping story from the first to the last page. A story driven by love and passion with twists that keep you glued to the book. I really wish there would be a fourth installment\u2026 I think everyone who read this trilogy would like to know what happens to Sophia and Alistair next. I loved the first and second book but I think this last one is a step above them. Thank you, Cristiane Serruya, for your beautiful works that give us readers so many emotions and make us dream. ...more Congratulations to Cristiane Serruya on a well written story! A wonderful end to a a series of books with characters that will stay with me forever. The love story between Alistair and Sophia continues to grow. We are able to understand the complex character of Ethan. Any other questions we've had regarding the first two books are answered. Five Excellent Stars for me! Excellent finish to the trilogy. 'The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living.' This line refuses to leave my mind. the last page has been turned and the tear drops have been shed. I sit thinking about the joy and sorrow of the very lives led by the characters of the book. Suddenly there was a void. Sophia, Alistair, Gabriela, Nathalie, Ethan... it felt as if I was going to leave them all in the confines of the book. That's when I remembered Cristiane Serruya's words-\"It was as if when I finished their stories I h 'The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living.' This line refuses to leave my mind. the last page has been turned and the tear drops have been shed. I sit thinking about the joy and sorrow of the very lives led by the characters of the book. Suddenly there was a void. Sophia, Alistair, Gabriela, Nathalie, Ethan... it felt as if I was going to leave them all in the confines of the book. That's when I remembered Cristiane Serruya's words-\"It was as if when I finished their stories I had set them free. They are not mine anymore, they belong to the world and I can still be with them whenever I want.\" Read more about the interview here- http://critiquedontcriticize.blogspot... The demons from within each one of them were finally released, but at what cost? Love, as they say it, is all-sacrificing and all-consuming. Or is it? Love can be an obsession that can endanger one's life. Heat,passion and a million other expressions and feelings are no doubt described to the finest detail in this final installation of the Trust Trilogy but what I urge you reader, is to reach to the deeper layers of it. The best part about this series is the in-depth exploration of the human psyche by the author. She has played with the thought processes of the characters very intelligently and each character is a winner here- in one or the other way. I would always remain indebted to this author for bringing to the notice of the reader, the widely debated but little answered problem of women empowerment - be it at home or at the workplace. What I found amazing is the fact that she gives startling details and shocks the reader by pinpointing issues that grapple to be heard all across the world but are silently throttled in ways we might never even notice. This is more than a tale of love, sacrifices and devils of the mind. It's a rediscovery of one's own self in ways we would never know that our minds functioned in! P.S. For a new reader of Erotica, this would be a high dose. But be bold enough to venture deeper rather than passing scornful and shocked expressions. Few descriptions make one think about the ultimate and 'does-it-really-happen-?' craziness of the human species! Other books by the author - Review- http://critiquedontcriticize.blogspot... Review- http://critiquedontcriticize.blogspot... Review- http://critiquedontcriticize.blogspot... ...more A fantastic, breathtaking and enthralling conclusion to an epic series. Full review to come. Here it is:- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- \"How can I defeat a nightmare?\" How indeed. Cristiane Serruya's TRUST story is one of the best trilogies I have had the pleasure of reading. A hot romance downplays what this really is: An edge of the seat thriller that leaves you gasping, and I do mean literally. From 'A New Beginning', through 'Betrayed', to finally reac A fantastic, breathtaking and enthralling conclusion to an epic series. Full review to come. Here it is:- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- \"How can I defeat a nightmare?\" How indeed. Cristiane Serruya's TRUST story is one of the best trilogies I have had the pleasure of reading. A hot romance downplays what this really is: An edge of the seat thriller that leaves you gasping, and I do mean literally. From 'A New Beginning', through 'Betrayed', to finally reach and open 'Pandora's Box', it has been an interesting, intriguing, thrilling, and always enthralling ride. If Book One showed us a rather uncertain, but still very strong Sophia, Book Three reveals Sophia to be in even more charge of what she wants. She is an appealing heroine that you will root for. Why? When she is beautiful, rich, and has men seemingly fall at her feet, you wonder why? Because the story, although it features heavily on Sophia, it is not all about her, and through the other characters - Ethan, Alistair, Tavish...so many in fact that it is a supporting cast that you enjoy, along with Sophia's story. This is good characterisation. When Sophia is not in the story, you think it might lag. It does not, and it's all the more enjoyable when she returns. The descriptive tone of this book, just like the other two in the series, is wonderful. I especially enjoyed the references to Scotland, because although I have been all over the world, and indeed, over the border as far as Glasgow, that was for business....I've never truly visited the country. Cristiane makes you feel like you are there. The date and time stamps reinforce the urgency of the story. These books are long, complex, multi-layered. It will take several re-reads to grasp the quality of this work. So when I have done that, I will come back and edit this review. You can see in every line that the author has put her all into giving us an enthralling conclusion to the TRUST tale. She delivers. And because she does, any reference to it would be a major spoiler. So buy the books, and enjoy them. TRUST me when I say that Pandora's Box shouldn't just be opened....you should rip it apart and throw yourself in! ...more Find this review and more at Lusty Penguin Reviews! Cristiane Serruya pens a taught romance with pulse-pounding elements of romantic suspense in Trust: Pandora\u2019s Box , the final installment of the Trust trilogy. Now married, Alistair and Sophia MacCraig are continuing to work on maintaining the solid relationship they forged in the second book. Unfortunately, not only do Alistair and Sophia inadvertently end up hurting each other, but also outsiders are actively trying to destroy their relationship Find this review and more at Lusty Penguin Reviews! Cristiane Serruya pens a taught romance with pulse-pounding elements of romantic suspense in Trust: Pandora\u2019s Box , the final installment of the Trust trilogy. Now married, Alistair and Sophia MacCraig are continuing to work on maintaining the solid relationship they forged in the second book. Unfortunately, not only do Alistair and Sophia inadvertently end up hurting each other, but also outsiders are actively trying to destroy their relationship. To their credit, Alistair and Sophia, through meaningful conversations, are able to work through the hurts that they are inflicting on each other. Since Alistair and Sophia have built a measure of trust, they do not succumb to others who try to destroy their relationship, which I loved about them. At the same time, I loved seeing Ethan Ashford, with Sophia\u2019s encouragement, working to become the man he really wants to be. When the actions of our greedy and mysterious antagonists fail, they take drastic action that threatens Sophia\u2019s life. Although Alistair and Ethan do not get along, they manage to put their personal feelings aside to help save Sophia, leading to a dramatic climax in which not everyone survives, and the bad guys get what\u2019s coming to them. After all they have suffered through separately and together, Alistair and Sophia have a beautiful and satisfying happily ever after, which brought a huge smile to my face. As with the first two books in this series, I was drawn into Serruya\u2019s character-driven romance in Trust: Pandora\u2019s Box . A strong and compelling couple along and the wrap-up of all major plot points Trust: Pandora\u2019s Box a captivating and entertaining conclusion to the Trust trilogy. I received an eBook copy of the book for the purpose of an honest review. I was not compensated for this review, and all conclusions are my own responsibility. ...more The third book in the Trust series definitely didn't disappoint! I am so sad that the series has ended, but I loved this book, as well as the entire series. After Sophia and Alistair tie the knot, they believe they would live happily ever after, but this is when everything begins to fall apart. Between a custody battle, lies, and secrets that are being leaked out, Sophia and Alistair's relationship is put to the ultimate test. Can their marriage survive? I have loved Sophia from the very first bo The third book in the Trust series definitely didn't disappoint! I am so sad that the series has ended, but I loved this book, as well as the entire series. After Sophia and Alistair tie the knot, they believe they would live happily ever after, but this is when everything begins to fall apart. Between a custody battle, lies, and secrets that are being leaked out, Sophia and Alistair's relationship is put to the ultimate test. Can their marriage survive? I have loved Sophia from the very first book. She is a very strong and independent woman who is focused on her career and her family. She puts other people's needs and wants before her own, as you can clearly see in this final book. Both Sophia, Alistair, and Ethan are fighting their past demons, ones that could eat them alive, quite literally. Alistair has never been able to fully open up about his feelings, and what has happened in his past. You really begin to see him strive to begin communicating this to Sophia. Alistair is also dealing with his bouts of jealousy, but you see him, with the help of his brother, slowly begin to control some of these stray emotions. Ethan is questioning his love for Sophia, and dealing with his own demons. He works to try to gain peace with his wrongdoings, and his past struggles. I loved the conclusion to the series. I felt that the book tied up very well, and didn't leave any hanging questions. This book has the reader experience many different emotions throughout the book. I loved the ups and downs of it, and I feel the author pulled it together really well. I loved seeing Sophia, Alistair, and Ethan all fighting their own past demons to try to come to terms with their past, and learn to live in the future. I really enjoyed this entire series, and I really hope Cristiane decides to write another series! I was given this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more Trust (Pandora\u2019s Box) Cristiane Serruya What can I say? Another action packed, thrill ride with many of my favorite characters comes to a satisfying conclusion. Throughout the trilogy, I\u2019ve seen them stumble, grow, break a little, heal a little and love with all their hearts and arts. No spoilers here but the finale provides full satisfaction. There are all the things I craved to read in the first 2 books, especially the excotic locals, the aggravating (but very human) inner turmoil and flaws tha Trust (Pandora\u2019s Box) Cristiane Serruya What can I say? Another action packed, thrill ride with many of my favorite characters comes to a satisfying conclusion. Throughout the trilogy, I\u2019ve seen them stumble, grow, break a little, heal a little and love with all their hearts and arts. No spoilers here but the finale provides full satisfaction. There are all the things I craved to read in the first 2 books, especially the excotic locals, the aggravating (but very human) inner turmoil and flaws that fully expand the depth of each individual. Pandora\u2019s Box is a fine completion to this trilogy and although this is the last of the series, I\u2019m sure I will often wonder \u201cwhat is next\u201d for Sophia. ...more BRAVO to this wonderful author! Amazing read with all the components that keep you engaged. As mentioned in book 1 's review the character depth and imagery in the story was very realistic. Although I was not surprised and prediced the storyline halfway through the book it was highly enjoyable. I loved Sophia, Alistair Conner, and Ethan. I was expecting a side story with Carolina and Tavish, but I will let my imagination take over on that one. I am hoping that CS continues writing. Like most fan BRAVO to this wonderful author! Amazing read with all the components that keep you engaged. As mentioned in book 1 's review the character depth and imagery in the story was very realistic. Although I was not surprised and prediced the storyline halfway through the book it was highly enjoyable. I loved Sophia, Alistair Conner, and Ethan. I was expecting a side story with Carolina and Tavish, but I will let my imagination take over on that one. I am hoping that CS continues writing. Like most fans I feel she has so much to offer, especially with the pleathora of knowledge she has due to her life's work and travels. ...more Congratulations to Cristiane for writing the perfect final book to the Trust trilogy. I have really enjoyed reading this series and the final book definitely didn't disappoint. An amazing conclusion to the series which never failed to make me laugh, cry and want to scream at times! Thanks for writing such a great series, I look forward to reading your work in the future. I have been given this ebook in exchange for an honest review Well, I can make this very short: The only bad thing is that it ended! I felt somehow bitter/sweet for a lot of reasons. It is actually the end of this trilogy and i feel sad because it end! So I suggest: readers You have to read it!! I am so disappointed in this book. :-( I had to come back to this book several times over the course of a month or so to finish. It was hard to get through it. I felt pot committed.<---C>Cristiane Serruya</---C>", "Title": "Trust: Pandora's Box"},
