{"Comments": "Okay,<---M> so I was reading along</---M>, and thinking all, hey, this is pretty interesting! Not bad, Stephenie! And then I got to about page 80 or so, and OH MY GOD THERE IT IS AGAIN, THE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE SAPPINESS OH MY EYES MY EYES I just can't do it. CAN'T DO IT AGAIN! Not the older man, and the younger woman, and the 5-page discussion of why they can't have sex yet because NO DEAR YOU'RE JUST NOT READY EVEN THOUGH YOU REALLY WANT IT BECAUSE LOOK, YOU'RE A GIRL AND YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY MAKE YOUR OWN DECIS Okay, so I was reading along, and thinking all, hey, this is pretty interesting! Not bad, Stephenie! And then I got to about page 80 or so, and OH MY GOD THERE IT IS AGAIN, THE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE SAPPINESS OH MY EYES MY EYES I just can't do it. CAN'T DO IT AGAIN! Not the older man, and the younger woman, and the 5-page discussion of why they can't have sex yet because NO DEAR YOU'RE JUST NOT READY EVEN THOUGH YOU REALLY WANT IT BECAUSE LOOK, YOU'RE A GIRL AND YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY MAKE YOUR OWN DECISIONS. BUT JARED I LOOOOVE YOU!! YOU ARE MY SOULMATE! BECAUSE WHY? I DON'T KNOW, I JUST LOVE YOU! MAYBE BECAUSE OF YOUR STRONG JAW AND GOLDEN SKIN AND BLOND HIGHLIGHTS AND LACK OF A PERSONALITY.<---F> THAT IS PROBABLY IT</---F>. I LOVE YOU TOO, MELANIE! AND I WILL PROTECT YOU! AND NEVER LET YOU DO ANYTHING! EVEN THOUGH YOU ALREADY SAVED YOURSELF AND YOUR BROTHER FROM HORRIBLE ALIENS! i think i need to go lie down now. ...more I originally had not planned on even reading this book because the Twilight series instills much rage within my soul, but I was in a dry spell for reading, so I decided to give it a try. I have to say I really enjoyed it much more than the Twilight series. I have seen a lot of people complain about how slow the beginning was, but I didn\u2019t really notice. It sucked me in pretty quickly. It was very clearly a <---A>Stephenie Meyer</---A> book, though, which did lead to certain amounts of anger and eyes rolling I originally had not planned on even reading this book because the Twilight series instills much rage within my soul, but I was in a dry spell for reading, so I decided to give it a try. I have to say I really enjoyed it much more than the Twilight series. I have seen a lot of people complain about how slow the beginning was, but I didn\u2019t really notice. It sucked me in pretty quickly. It was very clearly a Stephenie Meyer book, though, which did lead to certain amounts of anger and eyes rolling nearly out of my head. --- My biggest complaint with Stephenie Meyer is her romantic plots. I feel like I\u2019ve accidentally picked up a Harlequin romance. It is super cheesy and super melodramatic. It makes my brain hurt. Here\u2019s an example: \u201cI stared into Jared\u2019s eyes, and the strangest thing happened. All the melting, melding, welding that I had just been through was shoved aside, into the smallest part of my body, the little corner that I took up physically. The rest of me yearned toward Jared with the same desperate, half-crazed hunger I\u2019d felt since the first time I\u2019d seen him here. This body barely belonged to me or to Mel\u2014it belonged to him\u201d (<---B>595, ARC</---B>). WHAT! First, horribly cheesy. Second, nobody but you owns your body, and if you find it romantic to think otherwise, that is unhealthy. Let\u2019s learn some emotional and physical independence! What the hell is up with underage characters and older men?! Why could the females not be slightly older? This is supposedly being marketed as an adult book, so maybe it\u2019s a bit alienating to make your main character(s) 16 when she first meets Jared who was 26, then 17 when she was starting in a new body (which they thought was younger!) when Ian is in his mid-20\u2019s (I am guessing). I\u2019m just glad the romantic interests were not supposed to be seen as perfect. They had similar flaws as Edward & Jacob, but we were not reminded every 20 seconds how easily they dazzled everyone. Jared can barely stand Wanderer for most of the book. He would kill her easily if it weren\u2019t Mel\u2019s body. He is cruel and violent towards her. Ian is the first to physically assault her. And then in the end he does it again, while also being a bit violent toward Sunny & Jared. Of course, Ian ends up pretty near perfect with his perfect understanding and perfect kindness and perfect love. But I will accept this because I think that his perfect personality fits with the gentle, loving, peaceful personality of Wanderer. --- While still cheesy, there were bits that were not romance-based that were emotionally compelling. I felt Wanderer\u2019s fear about what she had to do in the end. In the tunnel on the way to Doc for the last time, when she asked Jared where everyone slept when it rained, my heart ached for her. I thought that was a lovely way of noting how much she still really wanted to find out about this world and how much she was going to miss and that life was going to go on without her. I know, I know, we are being emotionally manipulated, because if you don\u2019t know how it\u2019s going to end before you even pick it up, you haven\u2019t read enough in life. But if you put yourself in the character\u2019s place when she has a very clear idea of what is going to happen, it\u2019s pretty sad. --- The thing that made me love this is that it is not a romance. It is a story about humanity with romance thrown in. I like looking at humanity through alien eyes. I like learning what it means to be human with Wanderer. I like the interactions between Mel and Wanderer. I like that Wanderer picked up sarcasm from Mel. I love how absolutely confused she initially is by humans. She views humans as violent, hateful creatures. She is confused when they feed and protect her. This completely goes against her view of humanity. I like how we perceive the humans through her eyes, how we get an idea of their motives from her which she is normally wrong about, and then we slowly see the change. This is seen especially with Doc. I enjoyed seeing how Wanderer reacted to humans and how her perception of them changed. She goes from being terrified of humans to constantly surprised and confused by how good they end up being to loving them and embracing her own humanity. But throughout it she is ashamed of betraying her kind and feels like a traitor. She constantly second guesses herself, whether it\u2019s in favor of the humans or the souls. It\u2019s not until the end when she really accepts that maybe what she does is wrong, but if it brings about good then it\u2019s the best thing for her to do. --- I like the question of how much of yourself comes from some ethereal personality/soul and how much comes from your physical body. What makes us human? What parts of us do people fall in love with? Are we more physical, spiritual, emotional? It\u2019s a bit cheesy (have I said that enough?), but I like the idea portrayed when Ian says, \u201cIt\u2019s not the face, but the expressions on it. It\u2019s not the voice, but what you say. It\u2019s not how you look in that body, but the things you do with it\u201d (p. 397, ARC). And then we get to see Wanderer in two different bodies which change her a bit. We have weak v. strong, etc. When in Mel\u2019s body, Wanderer feels a physical longing for Jared but an emotional one for Ian. After she is put in a new body, she still loves Jared. Melanie occasionally seems overly familiar with Ian before remembering who she is. Jared stares searchingly and confusedly at Wanderer. What makes someone who they are? What part of a person do others connect with? --- There are a lot of small touches that really pleased me. I love how people act and react in this book. I thought it was hilarious when Wes (?) said, \u201cYou may have taken the planet, but you\u2019re losing this game,\u201d when they were playing soccer. That's just funny to me. If you can't use humor to cope with the apocalypse, you'll never make it. A reaction that rings completely true is when, after Wanderer walks in on the dissections and is absolutely horrified, the guys are confused about why she is so upset when they were sure to cover the bodies so she couldn\u2019t have seen anything. However, they only covered the human bodies. They still see the souls as alien and other which negates understanding and compassion. I love what happens in the following bit: \u201c\u2019Ah,\u2019 the seeker\u2019s familiar voice moaned from the human body. \u2018Ah.\u2019 / The room went utterly silent. Everyone looked at me, as if I were the expert on humans\u201d (p. 553, ARC). Of course that is how they would react when she is the one who knows how to bring the humans back! --- One theme of the book is belonging. What makes one belong? Wanderer does not think she belongs in the cave because she is not human. Many of the humans agree. But she becomes part of the community, and her friends, who have gotten to know her and thus care about her, believe she belongs. Jeb never calls her \u2018it\u2019, and as the others get to know her they stop doing this. Lacey is instantly accepted by many of the humans because she is human (or becomes human again). But she has a hateful personality, and most of the main characters do not like her. Jeb refers to her as \u2018that creature\u2019. So what makes us belong somewhere? --- I think the characterization is actually not terrible. Ian, for instance, initially comes off as cruel and violent (he tries to kill her), but he\u2019s just reacting to his world being taken over by beings who want to basically kill all humans. We see that he has the capacity to be kind, to gain perspective, to learn to understand. Granted, it seemed a bit incongruous to go from Killer to Most Compassionate & Loving Person Alive Ever in such a short time, but I'll take what I can get from Meyer. Even Kyle is developed, though it mostly comes up in the end. Initially, he is just the villain of the story, but once Sunny is brought in we see that, yeah, he is rash and selfish and arrogant and angry, but he can be gentle and kind. And we don\u2019t see this 180 done on his character where all of a sudden, out of the blue, he is capable of love. We know he had a girlfriend before this all started. Someone, at some point, must have seen some good stuff in him. And his grief at losing his world is manifest through anger and violence towards those who destroyed it. Sunny looks at him as her protector, but he doesn\u2019t jump into a relationship with Sunny. He wants Jodi back. But through his interactions with Sunny, he gains understanding. He is confused by her reaction to initially meeting him and is surprised he can be so kind to her. He is compassionate when she realizes what is going to happen and is terrified, he didn\u2019t realize it would be that hard. Once Jodi doesn\u2019t come back, he has Sunny put back in her body, and he takes care of her. But he\u2019s confused by it all; he doesn\u2019t know what he\u2019s doing or how to have a relationship with her. As shocked as I am by this, Meyer is able to create a character that grows but still remains himself. --- I did have a problem with the ending. It\u2019s just too neat and happy. While I was amused and pleased that Jared held a knife to Doc to get him to save Wanderer, it\u2019s way too pat of an ending. Of course, you knew it would happen from the beginning, but I have to wonder whether it would be a better ending to just let her die. She\u2019s lived, she\u2019s learned, it\u2019s her time to go. Life and love go on even in the face of death, as Meyer reminds us numerous times. Show us how the humans cope, how they do on their own once she\u2019s gone. Of course, she is the main character of the book, so maybe allowing her to continue learning how to be human is not such a bad thing. And we know how Meyer hates making her characters suffer any type of consequence... ...more I must be a masochist. Why else would I pick this book up in the first place, let alone finish it? And it was so NOT worth it. To sum up my impressions of this story - WAAAAAHHHHHHH!!!!! WHYYYYYYY??? * * This refers to the pointless waste of an entire tropical forest on the printing of this 600+ pager in which NOTHING happens. I kid you not. ** ** Well, what else did I expect from a woman who created sparkly virgin vampires??? Hanging my head in shame. *** *** In my defense, here is the quote fr I must be a masochist. Why else would I pick this book up in the first place, let alone finish it? And it was so NOT worth it. To sum up my impressions of this story - WAAAAAHHHHHHH!!!!! WHYYYYYYY??? * * This refers to the pointless waste of an entire tropical forest on the printing of this 600+ pager in which NOTHING happens. I kid you not. ** ** Well, what else did I expect from a woman who created sparkly virgin vampires??? Hanging my head in shame. *** *** In my defense, here is the quote from this trainwreck book: \"Perhaps without the lows, the highs could not be reached.\" Maybe I expected the highs (just teeny-tiny highs) after Twilight the sparkly book I don't speak of? **** **** This definitely had the aforementioned lows, but also a conspicuous absence of highs. And it didn't even have the unintentional hilarity of Twilight sparkly series. WAAAHHHHHH!!!!! ----------------------------------------------------------------------- EXTRA! EXTRA! READ ALL ABOUT IT! There will be a movie . It IS happening (unlike the book, in which nothing is). Ok, it's old news, but I am behind on my pop culture. The important thing is - the movie stills are out. And they highlight the very important way in which it differs from Twilight - the male love interest is wearing a *gasp* SHIRT !!! In both pictures. Proof: ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Alright, enough of the silliness. Let's get to business. This book COULD HAVE HAD potential. The premise can be interesting - our planet overtaken by mind-controlling centipedes souls, it takes people a while to realize that the invasion had happened, and the resistance emerges. Add to it that the invaders are apparently looking for little more than world peace - and this has the beginnings of a fun sci-fi-ish story. Alas, that didn't happen. ******* ******* Our lovely protagonist, ladies and gentlemen! (My vision) Let's immediately clarify - this \"sci-fi romance\" (as I have seen it described) is neither sci-fi nor romance. Instead we have a watered-down story of sometimes angry overprotective men pushing around and ordering around the helpless, meek, anxious, and \"selfless\" heroine - and occasionally carrying \"their women\" around (as all men are prone to doing in Ms. Meyer's books). There is a lot of brooding, glaring, staring, whispering, and murmuring ( was Ms. Meyer paid extra for every instance of \"murmur\" in the book? It would seem so ). The narration is weak, lazy, and overly dramatic. The characters are caricatures. Pages and pages go by without ANYTHING happening. Boring. YAWN. This book deserves ZERO stars . It is to literature what Gigli was to movies (Anyone remember that awfulness? Probably not, as I was likely the only sane human so saw it. Again - masochism) . Your time is precious; please don't waste it on <+++>The Host</+++>. Do anything else instead - like watching paint dry , which still would be more enjoyable. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Edited to add (in bewilderment): This \"book\" has a 3.86 rating on GR. Am I reading the same thing as everyone else? Was my copy of this book defective in any way? ...more It's no secret that I did not jump on the Twilight bandwagon. I put my name on the hold list at the library for <+++>The Host</+++>, however, because I wanted to see if Stephenie Meyer had improved in her storytelling. I'm happy to say, \"Yes, she did. To a point.\" I would like someone tell me what her fascination is with sappy, overly dramatic dialogue, 17-year old girls and over-protective older men who carry them while running? Because there are some definite similarities here. I find it interesting that t It's no secret that I did not jump on the Twilight bandwagon. I put my name on the hold list at the library for The Host, however, because I wanted to see if Stephenie Meyer had improved in her storytelling. I'm happy to say, \"Yes, she did. To a point.\" I would like someone tell me what her fascination is with sappy, overly dramatic dialogue, 17-year old girls and over-protective older men who carry them while running? Because there are some definite similarities here. I find it interesting that this novel is pegged for \"adults\" where the Twilight novels were pegged \"young adult\" as I don't see a great deal of difference, except for one main fact: Wanda and Melanie are likeable. Thank goodness. If one of them had shown up as whiny and annoying as Bella, I never would have finished the book. Well, I would have finished it, but only to say, \"I told you so.\" While I found a lot of similarity to the Twilight novels in her storytelling and in the details (over-protective older men, teenage girls, dramatic sappy dialogue, etc.) this was a much better story. Far more developed than I would have expected. It still takes her a long time to get to her main points, but I wasn't as bored with this one in the beginning as I was with Twilight. I found the storyline fascinating: that aliens who invade other planets and take over the species, invade earth and take over the human bodies and then live as humans. Wanda is one of those aliens, a \"soul\" who takes over Melanie's body, only to find out that Melanie isn't quite ready to give it up. This is where Meyer's storytelling has improved. She crafted a story where the romance was secondary to the main plot, and I think that is why this book is so much better than her earlier attempts. She explores the idea of a person's soul or spirit and how an individual is defined as much by that spirit as by their physical body. I thought her character development was well done. I liked these characters. I cared about them. I don't need to tell you that I never cared about Bella. I enjoyed the complexities that the storyline created. Wanda was affected by Melanie's memories and feelings and couldn't help but love the man Melanie loved. Then, when she found herself caring for a different man, the conflict is believable. The humans have a difficult time accepting Wanda, but when they do, she truly becomes one of them. The novel ends neatly, with hope. Predictably there is room for a sequel, which I no doubt expect. I'd actually re-read this book. I won't re-read the others. ...more Okay, so I read this book when I was ... 15? So, that was almost four years ago. When I reviewed it, I was a bit of an idiot. (Or, a lot of an idiot.) My review consisted of a lot of exclamation points and OMG's and rather stupid statements like, \"STEPHENIE MEYER IS LYK DA BEST WRITER EVAHHH.\" And yet, as idiotic as I sounded, this is my third most-liked review (probably because it's such a popular book, and probably everyone who \"liked\" it was also a 15-year-old who couldn't punctuate and who t Okay, so I read this book when I was ... 15? So, that was almost four years ago. When I reviewed it, I was a bit of an idiot. (Or, a lot of an idiot.) My review consisted of a lot of exclamation points and OMG's and rather stupid statements like, \"STEPHENIE MEYER IS LYK DA BEST WRITER EVAHHH.\" And yet, as idiotic as I sounded, this is my third most-liked review (probably because it's such a popular book, and probably everyone who \"liked\" it was also a 15-year-old who couldn't punctuate and who thought Stephenie Meyer is \"da best writer evah\".) So, needless to say, for a while this review's existence bothered me because it really didn't say anything intelligent. Also the comments on it were rather hostile, soooo I'm deleting those too and just starting with a clean slate here. In fact, I'm hoping to do the same thing with a lot of my reviews because so many of them are an eyesore to me (and make me look terribly stupid). I don't know why I used to be so lazy with capitalization/spelling because it drives me absolutely nuts now. Anyway, on to reviewing. Although like I said, it's been a few years, so I don't remember a ton. I haven't re-read it since that first time, so maybe I would feel differently about it nowadays. But I remember really enjoying it. Yes, it had its flaws, as all books do. It was a bit slow starting out, but I got hooked after the first 100 pages or so. The alien-takeover premise isn't terribly original, but I do love possession and mind control. Also, Wanderer was a rather obnoxious main character. Not as pathetic as Bella of the Twilight series, but she was rather unrealistically self-sacrificing. Then of course, there's Meyer's writing style, which isn't the most awesome thing ever. Although I thought she improved with this book. It was definitely better than Twilight. However, these issues didn't take too much away from my enjoyment of the book. I liked the characters besides Wanderer ... except Jared. What an a-hole. The story was exciting, and it addressed some interesting ideas about what makes us human. I'm not a huge fan of love triangles, but this one was interesting\u2013\u2013especially since Wanderer and Melanie are essentially two people trapped in one body, and so struggle with the issue of having separate love interests. (view spoiler) [I was kind of pissed off though that Melanie and Jared still wound up together in the end, since Jared was such a jerk to Wanderer. I guess it makes sense he was angry, but Mel and Wanda were still friends, so ... Eh. (hide spoiler) ] I also liked the ending. I didn't know how on earth it was supposed to come to a conclusion, and I liked that it came to a happy-but-not-perfect ending. Anyway, I do wish Meyer would write the sequel to this instead of writing rather pointless things like The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner and The Twilight Saga: The Official Illustrated Guide . Not really sure what would happen in the second book, but it interested me a lot more than Twilight did, so ... ARGH. ...more \u201cIt\u2019s not the face, but the expressions on it. It\u2019s not the voice, but what you say. It\u2019s not how you look in that body, but the thing you do with it. You are beautiful.\u201d I give this book 5 stars because is just such an amazing book. I really, really love it! At first sight it looks like it's a book about aliens, but in reality it's about the human kind and it's questioning how much humanity remains in us all. It's a book about survival, about love (so many types of love: loving yourself, loving t \u201cIt\u2019s not the face, but the expressions on it. It\u2019s not the voice, but what you say. It\u2019s not how you look in that body, but the thing you do with it. You are beautiful.\u201d I give this book 5 stars because is just such an amazing book. I really, really love it! At first sight it looks like it's a book about aliens, but in reality it's about the human kind and it's questioning how much humanity remains in us all. It's a book about survival, about love (so many types of love: loving yourself, loving the planet you live on, loving your family, your friends), about finding yourself... a book about trust, friendship and faith. It starts kind of slow, but as you get through the story you can see how amazing it can be... so captivating, so entertaining. The main characters are Melanie and Wanda (the body and the soul) and they take you in a journey not only to find the people they love but to find themselves, to understand the reasons to lose everything for love, the reason to give your life for the people you can't live without. There is enough action to keep you reading, but the story is deeper than that, it's not about what the characters do but why they do that, it's not about whom they love but why they can't resist the feeling, it's not about what they say but about what they think. This book is all about emotions, and reading about how the characters feel in every scene makes the story so real, so true... you can feel the pain, the anger, the faith, the love, the hope... it's a carousel of emotions and that is what makes this book so good, because it's just so close to your heart. If you are looking for adventure and lots of action and UFOs this is not a book for you, but if you are looking for an emotional, tear-dropping story this might be the one. Note: You can read my latest review for this book here , but only if you've read the book, as it contains various spoilers. Happy midnight reading! * This review can also be found at ReadingAfterMidnight.com ____________________________________________ Blog (EN) | Facebook | Twitter | Tumblr | Bloglovin' | Blog (RO) ____________________________________________ Later Edit 1: Check my 3rd book boyfriend: Ian O'Shea ...more GAH!!!! AAAAGGH!!! SODTODSHT!! AHAAHOSHDTO!!!!! DSODHTOHDTOHTOSDHTSHHHHHHTHIDSDOIOSHDTOIH!!! Those are more accurate phrases, more fitting descriptions of my reaction at the end of this book. Unfortunately, those cannot be precisely translated into the English language. Holy Crap. HOLY CRAP!! I can't even process my thoughts to write a review for this. This book was so stunning, so amazing, so crazy good that I can't even describe it. XD I'm extremely impressed of Stephenie Meyer. This beats Twilight GAH!!!! AAAAGGH!!! SODTODSHT!! AHAAHOSHDTO!!!!! DSODHTOHDTOHTOSDHTSHHHHHHTHIDSDOIOSHDTOIH!!! Those are more accurate phrases, more fitting descriptions of my reaction at the end of this book. Unfortunately, those cannot be precisely translated into the English language. Holy Crap. HOLY CRAP!! I can't even process my thoughts to write a review for this. This book was so stunning, so amazing, so crazy good that I can't even describe it. XD I'm extremely impressed of Stephenie Meyer. This beats Twilight by a long shot; it's SO much better. She writes so much better in this book, and the complex, in-depth plot is nothing compared to Twilight's shallow one. The idea is so cool. The characters are awesome and lovable. Stephenie Meyer is incredibly skilled with emotion; that's her strongest suit. She writes emotion in a way that makes you feel everything the character feels. When the character is in pain, the reader is in pain too. Meyer writes love in a way that makes you love everything and everyone the character loves with a strong passion. Even though he was just a character, I loved Jamie as strongly as if he was my own brother. And I was in love with Ian as strongly as if I was Wanda and he was actually real. Stephenie Meyer is a queen of emotion; I don't think anyone can write it like she can. This was just so much better than Twilight, and that was so relieving. Even though I enjoyed Twilight, it's nice to see that the same author is capable of writing something that isn't shallow in the slightest, and writing something so much better than Twilight. This book just blew me away. I actually cried at the end. In fact, I cried several times throughout the book, it was so good. :) The funny thing is, I didn't cry at the end because of the reason that everyone else cried. I cried because what everyone thought was the end of the book, WASN'T the end. I cried because Meyer changed it from the perfect, bittersweet sad ending, to a happy-dovey ending. I wish she made the ending the chapter before the last, the one before she skipped pages in the book. (I'm trying not to spoil things here ;D.) Apparently, Meyer is making a second book. I kind of wish she wasn't. While it would be nice to read the next one, I feel like The Host would be best as a stand-alone novel, and to make it into a series would just ruin it. This is a storyline that would best not be continued. I don't know. Anyways. The Host is a phenomenon and everyone who hasn't read it must go get it now. It is an essential read. XD ...more I wanted to like this book more than I did--to see that Stephenie Meyer can pick a topic not meant for shallow teenage girls and write on a deeper level--but I think this book is more of the same, sans the vampire excitement. I liked the idea: an alien soul inhibiting the host body of a girl who doesn't want to relinquish her control and the conflicts that arise, particularly in romance. There are some interesting topics, like what defines humanity and are we living worthy enough for the planet I wanted to like this book more than I did--to see that Stephenie Meyer can pick a topic not meant for shallow teenage girls and write on a deeper level--but I think this book is more of the same, sans the vampire excitement. I liked the idea: an alien soul inhibiting the host body of a girl who doesn't want to relinquish her control and the conflicts that arise, particularly in romance. There are some interesting topics, like what defines humanity and are we living worthy enough for the planet we are entrusted. The story isn't as page-turning as Twilight, but mulling nonetheless. My problem with Stephenie Meyer is her characters. They seem shallow, unbelievable, and small variants on her same cookie cutter. Her girls in particular are, well dumb, always jumping to the wrong conclusions, never wanting to believe they could be loved. Your damsel in distress. I am often exasperated by the emotion and stupidity of her female characters. I tried to allow for the alien learning curve, but when solutions and realizations are painfully obvious to me chapters before they are explored by the characters it creates frustratingly slow plot progression. The mold for guys is more frustrating because they exhibit none of the characters I am drawn to, and even ones I despise. They are always big, strong, forceful verging on the abusive side of controlling with a scary tendency to irrational jealousy and anger. They are emotionally immature, intense, and display their passion with an abnormal display of affection and cheesiness to the women who make them crazy with love. I don't trust intensely passionate men. (I did like Jeb's character but he wasn't a main romantic interest characters so he didn't need to be intense.) Because of this conversations were unrealistic. I could not imagine real people speaking this way so the story felt childish at times. The cheese is laid on so thickly in parts I could not swallow it. This is supposed to be a more adult-themed book, but in many ways I found it less adult enticing and more juvenile in tone. Her choice of juvenile-enticing characters is proof enough that her style is not intended for a truly adult audience. Plus the middle dragged with insignificant humdrum and a lack of good character development. There was more that could have been explored with a two-spirit/one-body complex. And there were holes in this parasite species theory that bothered me. I didn't care enough about the story to think about them too much, but they were there and made her tale less believable. So creative idea, but the delivery and details didn't quite hit the mark. (view spoiler) [What I did like in story development was the relationship between Ian and Wanda, how slowly and deeply it changed, until he could read and understand her better than she could and he could completely differentiate between the two souls. (hide spoiler) ] What Stephenie Meyer is good at is passionate taboo romance. As for Wanda herself how she changed from first juxtaposing her ingrained annihilation justification with her extreme pacifist views to sympathy for humans and eventually protective love for the planet. I still don't think Stephenie Meyer is a good writer, but she's a decent storyteller. Had Twilight not brought her fame, I doubt this book would go far. Creative plot idea, but it could have been so much more if she had explored the conflicts between Melanie and Wanda more thoroughly and left a morally obvious choice without a happy ending. Then it would have been a book for adults. The book was too shallow and slow enough that I probably wouldn't read it again. ...more Aimed at the adult science fiction crowd, as opposed to the Young Adult Twilight fanbase, The Host isn't about science or where the human race is headed, but about what it means to be human, here and now. Earth has been quietly, non-aggressively conquered by a kind, pacifist species unable to lie or deceive, who go by different names on different planets in different languages. Here they call themselves \"souls\", while the rebel humans who have slipped through the net call them \"parasites\". They a Aimed at the adult science fiction crowd, as opposed to the Young Adult Twilight fanbase, The Host isn't about science or where the human race is headed, but about what it means to be human, here and now. Earth has been quietly, non-aggressively conquered by a kind, pacifist species unable to lie or deceive, who go by different names on different planets in different languages. Here they call themselves \"souls\", while the rebel humans who have slipped through the net call them \"parasites\". They are silvery, ribbon-like sentient creatures small enough to hold in two hands, covered in feathery antennae. Inserted into the back of a host body's skull, they take over a host's mind and motor functions to the point that the host's mind is completely subsumed: in effect, killing them. That is, until Earth, where the hosts fight back. Wanderer has lived full life cycles on nine other planets - a record among her kind - before taking a human host, a young woman called Melanie. Unfortunately, Melanie's not going away without a fight, and on top of the gamut of new and intense human emotions Wanderer must contend with, she also struggles to take complete control of her host and find the memories Melanie's keeping from her - memories of her brother Jamie and the man she loves, Jared. They'd managed to elude the alien takeover, until Melanie was caught. As Wanderer gradually gets to know and understand Melanie, she dreams more and more of Jared and Jamie until she finds herself ruled by Melanie's desire to find them, a desire stronger than the need to keep them safe from the parasites. While the story is very different from Twilight , the writing is much the same, and there are certain qualities in the characters that are becoming almost Meyer trademarks. I can already hear the same complaints and criticisms as I've read regarding the other series, but I'm not sure what these people are expecting - highbrow literature? The earth to move beneath their feet? Some people are never happy, and will often read a book determined to hate it. With one book they complain that something was mentioned and then seemingly forgotten, in another that something was repeated too many times. Personally, I didn't have a problem with the repetition in Twilight and I don't have a problem with it here. I think the first readjustment to my assumptions was with the alien race and Wanderer in particular. When I read about the book last year, I assumed the aliens are aggressive and cruel and the humans would be portrayed as humane and vulnerable. That's how it usually goes, after all, though I don't care for it. The opposite is true here however: the humans are portrayed as greedy, deceitful and violent - which we are, pretty much, especially when cornered - while the souls are kindly, generous, non-suspicious, terrified of humans and - apart from the Seekers - couldn't harm a fly. Especially Wanderer. It's not easy having a pacifist as your main character and narrator, especially one who's easily scared. But Wanderer has her moments of strength too, and resourcefulness, as well as her moral dilemma which is what really carries the story. Regarding the other characters, I really didn't like Jared, and Wanderer's attraction to him is one of the weakest points of the story. The point is made that she loves him because her body, Melanie's body, loves him and responds to him, and her mind too in a way. But it just didn't gel for me, probably because he doesn't come across well. His own dilemma - that the woman he loves is trapped inside a body ruled by an alien - gives him some excuse, but really, what's this thing Meyer has about women loving men who treat them horribly? Edward was pretty mean to Bella in the beginning, remember? Anyway, I liked Ian early on and it was pretty frustrating, the way Wanderer treated him etc. The themes of the novel are pretty obvious, and definitely well-meaning, but still interesting. Questions of whether humans deserve to live on when we are so cruel to each other, and waste resources etc. The souls don't even use money, they take only what they need, and treat everyone with the same kindness. This raises the age-old issue of individuality, which is often the victim - and the ace up humans' collective sleeve - in such stories. The same theme was explored in Scott Westerfeld's Uglies/Pretties/Specials trilogy, for example. Definitely one of the things I liked about this book was the conflict between Melanie and Wanderer, having two minds in one body with one more dominant than the other. It reminded me of Annon and Riane in Eric van Lustbader's Pearl Saga, a boy in a girl's body whose individual identities are slowly merging yet still conflicting - written so well, I think Lustbader created a whole new gender. It's simpler here because they're both female, but other problems arise because of it - like loving the same man, or of Wanderer wanting to respond to Ian but unable to because her host body lusts after another man. Among other things ;) Because I didn't like the characters as much as I did in Meyer's Twilight series, I didn't fall in love with this book. It's an oft-times exciting story, with moments of tension and uncertainty, but I would have liked to understand the souls more - I didn't really understand where they came from or how they came to be, it's kind of like the chicken-or-the-egg: if souls can't survive without host bodies, how did they come to be? How did they get inside their first hosts? - and it was a tad bit heavy-handed on the moralising. Not enough to annoy me, but it's there nonetheless. In short, if you enjoyed the Twilight series, you'll probably enjoy this because it means Meyer's style won't aggravate you; if, on the other hand, you didn't enjoy them, and you have bitched and moaned about her writing style like so many other people, I'd rather you didn't read The Host , not 'cause your criticisms will be wrong, but because you're missing the story . I should know, I've bitched and moaned about books I don't like often enough before. But I don't usually go on and read more books by the same author, unless I'm hoping they'll have improved. And I think Meyer's writing is improving, but it is what it is: simple, unadorned, reflective, introspective (but not too much), and clear. Even the repetition is necessary, which I think is true of Twilight as well. ...more Talk about an emotional roller coaster!!!! This book was very difficult to rate. If someone were to ask me, \"Was it good?\" I'd have to think for a long time and then say, \"No.... Well... yes, sorta.... No... It was ok.\" But if someone were to ask me if I'd enjoyed it, I'd instantly reply, \"Yes!\" Would I read it again? Probably not. Was it exciting? On occasion. Was in interesting? Very much so, in my opinion. Was it weird? YES! Were the characters well-developed? ... After the first half of the Talk about an emotional roller coaster!!!! This book was very difficult to rate. If someone were to ask me, \"Was it good?\" I'd have to think for a long time and then say, \"No.... Well... yes, sorta.... No... It was ok.\" But if someone were to ask me if I'd enjoyed it, I'd instantly reply, \"Yes!\" Would I read it again? Probably not. Was it exciting? On occasion. Was in interesting? Very much so, in my opinion. Was it weird? YES! Were the characters well-developed? ... After the first half of the book, yes, I suppose. The Host is about a species of aliens who call themselves Souls. They are born without bodies and can not live very long without one, so they live like parasites inside the bodies of other creatures, completely taking them over. These \"souls\" come to earth and take over the bodies of mankind, living peacefully as they experience the new world around them. The main character of this book, through whose eyes the events of the story are witnessed, is a soul named Wanderer who takes over the body of a young woman formerly known as Melanie. When Wanderer realizes that Melanie is still alive inside of her body, she tries desperately to fight her out, along with the painful and wonderful memories of the man Melanie is in love with. Eventually, Wanderer falls in love with this man, too, through Melanie's memories and the two of them set out to find him. I don't usually read Science-fiction, and so maybe that's the reason I found this book so odd. I wouldn't have picked it up, knowing the storyline as I did, except that my sister had it in her room and I was bored. As weird as the whole alien/possession thing was and is, I found that it was interesting to read about. It was interesting to read the descriptions of human emotions through a character who's never felt them before. This book was VERY EMOTIONAL! Happy, sad, angry, jealous, confused, hurt, obsessed, offended, frustrated, loved, hated, admired, rejected... all feelings were vividly described and painfully lived as I read this book. It ended the way I wanted it to, which made me happy, but.... I don't know. There were just a few things I would have changed had I been the editor of this book. 1) Stephanie Meyer seems to be developing, more and more with every book, a strange fascination with writing graphic make-out scenes that are slightly embarrassing to read. There were two in this book that were completely pointless, like she just wanted to write them. There was one that was almost pointless, but I can see why she would think it necessary. I'm not against kissing in books or anything like that, but there is such a thing as overdoing it to the point of ridiculousness. 2) I wished that she would have spent less time with the first half of the book and more with the near-end of the book. I wished there would have been more after \"the problem\" was fixed. Hopefully anyone who's read the book knows what I mean by that. To me, the book really got interesting near the middle, and it kind of dragged a little before that. But it wasn't really boring.... Just... uneventful.... That's it! This book was uneventful for how long it is! But I wasn't ever bored, exactly. Stephanie Meyer is too good of a writer to allow that. There was always something I enjoyed about it, but there was just enough that was weird or not quite right about it that I can't say that I loved it. In conclusion: I don't know exactly what I think of this book. It was enjoyable! I'm not sorry that I read it! But it was weird, and I would have liked it better with a few changes here and there. ...more \u201cDid you have a good bath?\u201d he says as I come out after only an hour. \u201cNo,\u201d I say, recognising that my tone is petulant. \u201cWhy not?\u201d he asks in surprise, as the answer is usually the opposite. \u201cI hate the book. Nothing is happening. Nothing has happened. And the aliens who invaded still make junk food. This doesn\u2019t make sense. They don\u2019t earn money or pay for anything, but they still make junk food. An alien invader who could read the mind of its host would learn to only make food with essential nut \u201cDid you have a good bath?\u201d he says as I come out after only an hour. \u201cNo,\u201d I say, recognising that my tone is petulant. \u201cWhy not?\u201d he asks in surprise, as the answer is usually the opposite. \u201cI hate the book. Nothing is happening. Nothing has happened. And the aliens who invaded still make junk food. This doesn\u2019t make sense. They don\u2019t earn money or pay for anything, but they still make junk food. An alien invader who could read the mind of its host would learn to only make food with essential nutrients and stuff, to keep the populace as healthy as possible. They wouldn't waste time and effort making junk food.\u201d I give up. I just can\u2019t do it. 107 pages and nothing has happened. This book literally put me to sleep. I said I was in the bath for an hour. I was asleep for half of that time. And then I was so mad that the book was so shitty I got out of a perfectly nice bath. And it's made me half sad and half really fucking angry. I like Twilight. It's not the best book or series in the world but it is special to me because I burned out my reading after doing a literature degree, and it took me a year to even pick up a book. Twilight was that book. It welcomed me back into the world of reading, and I've slowly been enjoying it more and more for the past two years. It was easy to read, fast, and relatively painless until you start looking at the deeper aspects. If I had picked up The Host in September of 2009 instead of Twilight, I probably wouldn't be reading yet. This book is fucking stupid. I don't care how much worldbuilding has gone on or how many different species of aliens there are or even what it's like seeing their worlds from their perspective. Which I should, becasue that is what is awesome about sci-fi. But who the fuck would want to live their life as an inter-connected sea weed? Or a land-based plant? They don't do anything. They just grow and reproduce. They don't live. They just exist. EDIT How THE FUCK did this parasitic species evolve? In Animorphs, the book series by Katherine Applegate the idea pretty much mirrors (I know it's not original but I grew up with it so bite me), the Yeerks evolved alongside the Gedds, and the Gedds were pretty crappy hosts anyway. The Yeerks were expanding to give their brethren better hosts so they could experience the world like everyone else: notably, Yeerks are blind, and they love being able to see through their hosts. Souls are obliterating entire races just because they think they can do better. How the hell did souls evolve and how the fuck did they evolve so that they need to be surgically implanted? The Yeerks evolved a way of doing it themselves, with anaesthetic solutions to dull the pain of drilling into the brain. The souls literally makes no sense. To gain the abilities to take over the brain of another host you'd need very specific evolution, and when technology is introduced evolution stops. This is why humans haven't evolved for a very long time, because they've been using tools and technology for ages - manipulating the world around you, adapting to change (such as wearing clothing in colder climates) leads to no need to evolve, for example, fur. So how do you get a soul from its pre-parasitic days to a parasitic state via evolution if they need to be surgically attached? END EDIT And what is Meyer's obsession with eyes being able to give people away? In Twilight, red-eyed vamps are the bad guys and golden-eyed vamps are the good guys (I don't remember if anyone says what colour eyes the vamps who drink donated blood from a bag have). In The Host, the parasites give people a shine around their pupil. Meyer may be reading too deeply into the whole 'eyes and the window to the soul' thing. Ha ha, I just made a funny. And the book opened with a scene that was just contradictory. (view spoiler) [The Healer said anyone could do the procedure in a back street alley yet they needed a lot of tech just to get Wanderer into Melanie (hide spoiler) ] . Don't say something is really fucking easy and then go and show exactly how not-easy it is. Fucking fuck fuck (can you tell I'm exasperated?). And where is the conflict? (view spoiler) [Something about Wanderer's chaperone needs some information that Wanderer can't get from Melanie so they're threatening to evict her from Mel's body. No idea what information it is or why it's so important they get it. Suspect it's something to do with the location of the rebel base. Insert Star Wars joke reference here. (hide spoiler) ] If this was Meyer's first attempt at getting published, she would have been laughed out of the industry. I read 107 pages and nothing has happened! At least in 100 pages Bella had met Edward! There is such a thing called THE INCITING FUCKING INCIDENT and as an aspiring traditionally-published author, I pretty much chase what the agents say they want. Such as no prologues, for example. So it pisses me the hell off when an established author wields such clout no one cares what the fuck she writes so long as she puts out another book *cough*Cassandra Clare*cough*. Sometimes inciting incidents are happening on the first page! The first chapter! It's totally awesome when that happens. But why should I bother reading the rest of the book when I've given it 100 pages to give me anything and all it's done is wasted my time? I mean, why should us newbies stick to the rules when veterans can break them and still rake in a payload? I know the answer to that. They're famous. And it boggles my mind WHY. I hope Meyer wrote this in her spare time for herself because I fucking love light sci-fi and I hate to think she sat down and decided the market needed this. This book should be ashamed to call itself sci-fi. I was looking forward to reading this because I'm doing NaNoWriMo and I need a book that isn't totally awesome and I want to spend all day reading ( Unearthly , Divergent , Bloodlines , Shiver ). But it's just made me fucking mad. Mello and Cory, I should have listened to you. I'm so sorry. Forgive me. I can't write any more because the nap in the bath made me sleepy and when I get sleepy I get emotional and I refuse to cry because I hate a book so fucking much. I'm going to go bury myself in a GOOD BOOK because I am sick to fucking death of being burned by bad ones. But first I need a cuddle and to be assured there are still good books out there because the last time I felt this bad about a book (Fallen, Torment) I ended up giving those books away (despite their GORGEOUS cover art) and I NEVER give books away. EVER. ...more I just can't comprehend why so many people are rating this book 5 stars. Seriously, why? I understand we are in love with Twilight, but it's not a good enough reason to support this mediocrity. I was extremely disappointed by Breaking Dawn, but decided not to be a hater and give SM another chance. So I opened The Host. I have to say, I have never had to put this much effort into reading a book in my life. If I didn't know who SM was, I wouldn't even bother to read after page 10, it was that bori I just can't comprehend why so many people are rating this book 5 stars. Seriously, why? I understand we are in love with Twilight, but it's not a good enough reason to support this mediocrity. I was extremely disappointed by Breaking Dawn, but decided not to be a hater and give SM another chance. So I opened The Host. I have to say, I have never had to put this much effort into reading a book in my life. If I didn't know who SM was, I wouldn't even bother to read after page 10, it was that boring and uninspired. But because of SM, I continued on, especially after some people told me that it would get better after about 250 pages. Oh boy, were they wrong! I was more like 500 pages. It took me 3 days to get through first 100 pages (to compare, it took me probably about 3 days to read Twilight, New Moon, and Eclipse). After that I just skipped through the rest of the book within a couple of hours. You can literally read every 50th page and not miss anything! There is absolutely nothing going on in this book! Pages and pages of conversations between Wanda and Melanie. And both these characters are so undeveloped, it's hard to tell them apart. In fact, it's hard to get attached to any character in this book! They all are so flat and dull. This book is marketed as sci-fi/romance novel. Trust me, it is neither. The sci-fi backdrop of this novel is laughable. Altruistic \"souls\" that save planets from cruel species, among these \"cruel species,\" believe it or not, are: Flowers, See Weeds, Bats... It is just plain ridiculous! There is very little romance in the book either. A couple of kisses between underage girls and older guys is all you get, in spite of the fact that this is SM's \"first adult novel.\" \"Adult\" conversation goes as far as discussing that a couple of characters can't have sex because she is too young (of course!) and they don't have contraceptives. Give me a break! So many reviewers say that this book has a deep meaning, that it shows \"what it means to be human\" and demonstrates that we can \"extend the status of \"human\" to other entities,\" etc. I think these people have never read actually good books. In fact, I don't think they have ever read anything but Twilight before. This is definitely the end of my love affair with SM's writing. I think she struck gold with Twilight, the rest of her creations are just plain bad. You may disagree with me, but this is the reality. ...more I am having so much trouble reading this book, and who am I to judge? I am just a lowly reader and spender, not a publisher. But there is just something about the writing in this book that is making the voices in my head scream. I had the same experience when I read \"Twilight.\" Ms. Meyers is over-the-top descriptive where there is no need to be. If I had to count how many times she wrote, \"I winced.\" or, \"I flinched.\" or, \"I sighed.\" or, \"Ian sighed.\" I bet it would be in the hundreds. She has a I am having so much trouble reading this book, and who am I to judge? I am just a lowly reader and spender, not a publisher. But there is just something about the writing in this book that is making the voices in my head scream. I had the same experience when I read \"Twilight.\" Ms. Meyers is over-the-top descriptive where there is no need to be. If I had to count how many times she wrote, \"I winced.\" or, \"I flinched.\" or, \"I sighed.\" or, \"Ian sighed.\" I bet it would be in the hundreds. She has added TOO many 2 word sentences that would drive most English Professors to madness. I know it is driving me to madness, and I only worked for English Professors. It has gotten to the point to where I may have to set this book aside and move on to something else before I can come back and finish it. If I didn't have the policy of \"no book left unread,\" I would toss it aside. But alas, it is not in my genetic makeup to leave a book unread. Dang. ONE WEEK LATER: Ok, I stuck it out and finished the book. I can't say that I like it much better than what I said above. I don't know why this was classified as an adult novel. It read way too much like her Twilight series without a lot of complication. Her relationships and inward character battles are exhausting and juvenile. I do have to say that maybe my expectations were a little too high for this book and that is why I am disappointed. However, I will end with this: who is the one getting books published? Not me, so what do I know. I just know what I like to read. ...more OKAY. I TAKE ALL THAT BACK. IAN WAS EPIC. I LOVE LOVE LOVE JAKE ABEL. OMG. THE MOVIE WAS SO EPIC! I CRIED LIKE THREE TO FOUR TIMES. I CAN'T EVEN- *Breath, Saniya, breath.* ...*Sighh.* Okay. This movie was freaking awesome and I just want to hug somebody right now. :'3 I am so sorry Jake baby. You were awesome in it. I misjudged you. Now I will love you forever. *Creepy fan-girl smile* Did You Know? 1) Dianna Agron auditioned for the role of <---C>Melanie Stryder</---C>. 2)Shiloh Fernandez, Liam Hemsworth , Kit Har OKAY. I TAKE ALL THAT BACK. IAN WAS EPIC. I LOVE LOVE LOVE JAKE ABEL. OMG. THE MOVIE WAS SO EPIC! I CRIED LIKE THREE TO FOUR TIMES. I CAN'T EVEN- *Breath, Saniya, breath.* ...*Sighh.* Okay. This movie was freaking awesome and I just want to hug somebody right now. :'3 I am so sorry Jake baby. You were awesome in it. I misjudged you. Now I will love you forever. *Creepy fan-girl smile* Did You Know? 1) Dianna Agron auditioned for the role of Melanie Stryder. 2)Shiloh Fernandez, Liam Hemsworth , Kit Harington, Jai Courtney and Wilson Bethel auditioned for the lead male role, Jared. Max Irons was later cast. 3) Ian Somerhalder , Dane DeHaan, Thomas McDonell and Augustus Prew auditioned for Ian. Jake Abel was later cast. 4)Eva Green, Hayley Atwell and Claire Danes turned down the role of The Seeker. 5) 'Emily Browning' , who portrays Pet in this film, was Stephenie Meyer's original choice for the role of Bella Swan in Twilight, but she turned it down. Oh.My.God. Okay, Max Irons FTW but, WHYYY NOT IAN SOMERHALDER!?? WHYYYY! Angry. OFFICIAL MOVIE TRAILER. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEfEwp... My reaction: Fucking awesomely excited now. Can't.WAIT! XD *DON'T CRY! DON'T CRY!* OMG! *CRIES* :'D Just, just look at this amazing poster! And okay. If I haven't already died... then there you go. DEAD! <3 Everybody, we have THE HOST TEASER TRAILER in this world now. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BUkE5Q... First things first. Dear Author, Do you want readers to have an optimistic opinion about you? Do you want to be normal and popular again after your dramatic fail, you know what I am talking about, of-course, The Twilight series? Here are three steps to make your life better again. Tell all the publishers to stop printing The Host. STEP NO 1- Change the cover. The eye is just too creepy. STEP NO 2- Change your name on the cover to, \"Bad author gone good- in the human world\" STEP NO 3- ERASE The following line, \"Author of the twilight saga\" And then let them print. I ensure you, The host will sell more than you have ever expected or imagined. Yours truly, Saniya. P.s... I still don't like you, get over it. Ahh. After reading this book for one whole week, I can finally say... I liked it. You: Hahaha, you are kidding me, right? You are talking about Stephenie Meyer here? Author of The 'twilight' saga, remember? Me: Hahaha, Sadly, I am not. -_- Let me show you a prove, \"Unexpectedly moving.... Stephenie Meyer's novels throb with an overwhelming emotional intensity.\" - ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION Here is the thing, whoever wrote this, was a really good human. The very first words said were my feeling, Unexpectedly moving and kindly notice the four dots, FOUR dots after that. The situation must be like: The guy/girl reading it, \"Oh, I will hate this book anyway.\" Few moments after reading this book, *Typing on the computer* Unexpectedly moving... \"Damn, what should I write next?\" COPY-PASTE-COPY-PASTE. ~overwhelming emotional intensity shit~ Her face, '=D' Net nowadays. Saves the day! :D Even after reading a future, dystopian novel, I liked it. (I hate dystopian novels like anything, nowadays) The book would definitely be confusing for readers who haven't read books based on the future or soul before, at first, but then it becomes easy to understand and follow afterwards. I think the only reason I finished this book so late was because the author wrote this book so slowly. One chapter consisted of her laying down, one of her eating, one of her feeling awkward and so on. This book could have easily been for about 400 pages if the author didn't use the pages unnecessarily on how the heroine was feeling and all. And after a few chapters, I also started noticing that the writing was somehow, forced. Not like, \"WRITE IT OR I WILL KILL YOU\" but like, \"how can I make this book much longer than it already is.\" Some situations were so not necessary. It clearly looked like she was writing this book for a movie. Anyway, surprise surprise... or not. Saoirse Ronan is playing Melanie Stryder in The Host movie which is gonna be released in 2013. =D I am so waiting for it! ^.^ The story was good, nothing that I could explain and yes. I LOVE YOU IAN! =D MARRY ME! ^.^ I HEART YOU! <3 I, SANIYA, A HUMAN SOUL, LOVES YOU! I LOOKED UP ALL ABOUT YOU ON THE NET! I KNOW, I KNOW, I AM NOT A CRAZY STALKER! ..actually I am... *hehe* GOSH, HOT! ^.^ Everyone wants Ian Somerhalder to be Ian. And if, IF he is cast-ed as Ian, If will die with joy and have tears in my eyes of pure happiness. Yeah, yeah. Give this book a chance, its really good, blah, blah, blah. And I will give this book 4/5 stars. :D But seriously, don't make a trilogy out of this. Let it be a stand alone novel. Please. :) ...more Final rating: 5/5 stars I cannot describe how much i love this book . Even though it was long, i still loved every page of it. I never read Stephanie Meyer before, but i love this book. She really is a good writer. The only downside that i had was that i watched the movie first - therefore i knew what was going to happen. But book was so much better, with more informations about Souls, and better characterization. And, one important thing: you will either love or hate this book. One thing also that Final rating: 5/5 stars I cannot describe how much i love this book . Even though it was long, i still loved every page of it. I never read Stephanie Meyer before, but i love this book. She really is a good writer. The only downside that i had was that i watched the movie first - therefore i knew what was going to happen. But book was so much better, with more informations about Souls, and better characterization. And, one important thing: you will either love or hate this book. One thing also that i really loved was that it was not an insta love, no matter how it seemed. The whole book happens in a long period of time - months actually, but nothing felt extremely rushed. And it can also be said that this is actually a love fourangle - 3 boddies and 4 souls. This story is actually centered on romance and less on science fiction (if it can even be put as sci fi, because we only meet aliens...and find out about some of their worlds). \u201cWhat was it that made this human love so much more desirable to me than the love of my own kind? Was it because it was exclusive and capricious? The souls offered love and acceptance to all. Did I crave a greater challenge?...Or was it simply better somehow? Because these humans hate with so much fury, was the other end of the spectrum that they could love with more heart and zeal and fire?\u201d ___________________________________________ STORY: ___________________________________________ World has never been more perfect - there are no wars, no hunger, no unecessary pain, no illness. But, the world belongs to the aliens called Souls. They are conquers and they are \"parasites\". They need hosts to live - otherwise they die. And when they discovered Earth which was slowly being destroyed, they thought it was perfect chance to save it. Therefore, they occupy it and start fixing the Earth. Souls are kind, caring, intelligent race, but can their good qualities compare to what they had done to human race? They destroy minds of humans and possess the bodies. Only a handful of people are left on Earth, the unpossessed ones called rebels. And they want to take their world back, but they can't do anything against them. To make things go as planned and to protect Souls, Souls placed Seekers to be something like a police for them. Seekers are the only one who are not honest, who lie and who hurt - and they are eager to find every human there is. This is a story about Wanderer, a Soul who was put into the body of Melanie Stryder, a rebel human. The thing that Wanderer didn't expect though was that Melanie is still alive and kicking in her mind. Melanie wants her body back, but she can't do anything about it and Wanda wants her gone, because the body belongs to her now. Melanie then shows her memories of Jared, her boyfriend and Jamie, her brother, and Wanda begins to realize that she slowly falls in love with those humans. And when she goes to try to find them, things don't exactly go as planned. The only thing left is to keep moving forward. ___________________________________________ CHARACTERS: ___________________________________________ \u2666 WANDERER/WANDA AND MELANIE/MEL: \u201cBody and soul. Two different things\u201d Melanie and Wanderer are both kind, caring and wonderful characters. They made me feel so much, both of them are the characters i really love, and i loved how the book was told from Wanda's perspective. Wanda, the Soul, is one of the most kind of them all. She is called Wanderer for a reason: she never settled on any planet, and she was on a lot of them. Earth is all knew to her, and human race is confusing to her as well...our emotions are not easy for her at the beginning. But, she begins to feel like Earth is the planet for her: \u201cThis place was truly the highest and the lowest of all worlds - the most beautiful senses, the most exquisite emotions.. the most malevolent desires, the darkest deeds. Perhaps it was meant to be so. Perhaps without the lows, the highs could not be reached.\u201d And even though she didn't like Melanie at the beginning, as can be said for Mel too, she starts loving Mel, and the other way around, until they became friends and sisters by souls. But, even if Melanie spammed her mind with Jared and Jamie, she can't really know how she feels. She begins to love Ian, but her body loves Jared....and it makes it so confusing to her. Melanie is fun, she is sarcastic, strong and amazing. And she is a fighter. She doesn't give up easily and her love for Jared and Jamie is so strong that she starts showing memories to Wanda, so she could understand. I loved Melanie, she was just awesome :) \u201cMelanie Stryder?\u201d he asked, addressing her. We both started at the name. Ian went on. \u201cI\u2019d like the chance to speak with Wanda privately, if you don\u2019t mind. Is there any way that could be arranged?\u201d Of all the nerve! You tell him I said no chance in hell! I do not like this man. My nose wrinkled up. \u201cWhat did she say?\u201d \u201cShe said no.\u201d I tried to say the words as gently as they could be said. \u201cAnd that she doesn\u2019t\u2026 like you.\u201d Ian laughed. \u201cI can respect that. I can respect her . Well, it was worth a try.\u201d He sighed. \u201cKind of puts a damper on things, having an audience.\u201d What things? Mel growled. I grimaced. I didn\u2019t like feeling her anger. It was so much more vicious than mine. Get used to it. \u2666 JARED: Jared is Melanie's boyfriend. They met when Mel was robbing someone, and they both thought the other one was Soul... Except Jared noticed it first and he kissed her, which made Mel angry and she punched him (he deserved it). \u201cMy name is Jared Howe. I haven\u2019t spoken to another human being in more than two years, so I\u2019m sure I must seem\u2026 a little crazy to you. Please, forgive that and tell me your name, anyway.\u201d \u201cMelanie,\u201d I whisper. \u201cMelanie,\u201d he repeats. \u201cI can\u2019t tell you how delighted I am to meet you.\u201d And then, they slowly but surely, fall in love. But, when he finds out that Melanie is gone and that Wanda took her place, he becomes cruel and unforgiving. He hurt Wanda many times and he said many many unkind things. And it shattered both Mel's and Wanda's heart seeing him like that. In some way, i can understand what he felt, it's not easy when the person you love is gone. And that someone else took her place. But he didn't have to be that much cruel (no wonder why everyone is team Ian). And even after all of that, i started liking the poor bastard, and in the end i loved him. \u2666 IAN: Ian is one of my favorite characters in this book. Even though he wasn't exactly kind to Wanda in the beginning (in that include him trying to strangle her), he grew to my heart. He regret what he had done to Wanda and soon starts seeing her as herself, not just the body. He starts to like her and eventually, he starts loving her. \u201cIt's not the face, but the expressions on it. It's not the voice, but what you say. It's not how you look in that body, but the thing you do with it. You are beautiful.\u201d \u2666 JAMIE: Jamie is Melanie's little brother. He was forced to grow up earlier than he wanted to. He became like an adult, despite his young age. He wanted to believe that Melanie was still alive, he wouldn't accept it otherwise, and he is the one of the rare ones who thought that Wanda is wonderful person and that she should be given a chance... \u2666 EVERYONE ELSE: Jeb was amazing. When he was young he found out about a cave, which fortunately, saved their lives by becoming a perfect hiding place for humans who survived. The motto he has is \"My house, my rules\" and everyone respects him. He believed in Wanda, he saw her as she is, he liked her from the beginning and he was kind to her. Kyle , Ian's brother, got on my nerves so many times, but in the end, i loved him too. Ian doesn't like him, and actually, no one really does, mostly because of his attitude and because he was irritating. Wanda's Seeker is one of the characters i don't know how to feel about. We find out about her, but for me she was just confusing. But she isn't a quitter and she knows what she is doing. And that makes her scary opponent. There are so many characters i wish to talk about, but i would be tempted to spoil and we don't want that to happen, do we? :D ___________________________________________ OVERALL: ___________________________________________ I love this book. And i am sad that it ended. But, i will surely read it again and again, because i want to be with Mel, Wanda, Ian and Jared again... I am also happy that there is going to be a sequel and i can't wait for it. This review can be found on my blog: infinity-of-time.blogspot.com also known as... ...more Unfortunately, the thing that drives me to write today is the poorly written book known as The Host , by none other than Stephenie \"Sparkling Vampires\" Meyer. Now, I went into this book with lukewarm expectations. Many people have said that The Host is actually better written than The Twilight \"Saga\", which isn't really saying much if you really look at it. However, I held in my bias and decided to give it a try, besides after Sparkling Vampires how much worse can it possibly get? Good Lord Unfortunately, the thing that drives me to write today is the poorly written book known as The Host , by none other than Stephenie \"Sparkling Vampires\" Meyer. Now, I went into this book with lukewarm expectations. Many people have said that The Host is actually better written than The Twilight \"Saga\", which isn't really saying much if you really look at it. However, I held in my bias and decided to give it a try, besides after Sparkling Vampires how much worse can it possibly get? Good Lord I was so wrong, so, so wrong. So The Host is a Sci-fi/Romance novel for people who don't like sci-fi according to the writer and it shows from the second paragraph of the damn Prologue. The aliens (which are called souls) are described as such: \u201cBecause he was a soul, by nature he was all things good: compassionate, patient, honest, virtuous, and full of love.\u201d [Yawn]. So these souls are silver centipede-like creatures that are put into the bodies of humans since the souls need a host to live. Now you may be wondering, why are these aliens on Earth and taking over human bodies? The answer. To make it a better place. I'm not joking. These aliens are not here because they are lacking resources on another planet or because they are just that bad ass or because they want our women. It's because they saw how humans were abusing their beautiful planet because we are so mean and violent so they came over here, took our bodies and made the world a better place. Not to mention they [the aliens] have no flaws. Are you bored yet? Don't worry it gets worse. We are then introduced to our protagonist: Wanderer (Wanda). Named such because she has been on multiple planets in several hosts, such as the Bear Planet, Planet of Flowers, some Dolphin planet and something with Spiders that have three brains. I don't remember them because they are stupid. The lack of effort she put into the creativity of this world is so childish I really wanted to throw my nook several times. She doesn't even do the cheap thing and make the creatures or planet names the actual word but backwards. No she just calls the creatures whatever the closest human term for it is. I mean what kind of alien is a See-Weed? Anyway, our protagonist \"Wanderer\" has just been put into the body of a member of the human rebellion force called Melanie (Mel) Stryder. Hmmm...that sounds an awful lot like Stephenie Meyer. Must be a small coincidence, like Bella Swan's appearance. Wanderer is troubled because the mean human girl won't let Wanderer enjoy her new body in piece and keeps popping into Wanderer. When she goes to her alien shrink (I shit you not) she says that the only time Melanie isn't quiet is when Wanderer is teaching at an alien university (again I shit you not). Due to Melanie's influence Wanda escapes her Seeker (our antagonist). You might be wondering what the fudge a Seeker is. Its not important. You might think it is, since you know one of them is our antagonist, but I can assure you. It's not important. Wanda then tries to find the place where Mel's Aunt and Uncle (Jed) are staying along with the other human refugees. Those including our two love interests, our \"mortality pet\" and the only man with common sense in the story (aka our second antagonist) I could get into a chapter by chapter review of this story, but that would just bore you as much as the book bored me so I'm just gonna try and break this down as simply as possible. The problem with The Host isn't simply that it is poorly written, but that every single character in the book is idiotic yet we are supposed to like them. We are constantly being told how good Wanda is, how strong Mel is, how wise Jeb is, etc. Yet none of the characters ever show those qualities or better yet any common sense. We are dealing with a world in which almost all of humanity has been taking over by aliens and they not only allow Wanda to live, but try and make everyone in the human refugee compound like her. Those that don't are the bad guys and those that are are of course a tribute to their race. Towards the end, even Melanie loves Wanda. Melanie's brother and boyfriend all love Wanda. Why? Because she is good. It's no wonder the humans have all been taken over, they lack any common sense! The only one who did was Kyle, who was demonized for acting the way anyone with half a brain cell would act during an alien invasion, until the end when everyone decides that the aliens are good people doing bad things. (Groan). The problem with this is that Meyer just can not write this scenario well. The aliens are seen as these pure creatures who don't see what they are doing as wrong, yet they are supposed to be good, despite that they are living in pure ignorance to the suffering of an entire race. Then the humans are good only because they are the victims, not by their own merit because they are violent, brutish and lairs. Wanda, who is supposedly abandoning her race for her love of humans, thinks of humans as brutish and even calls them monsters at one point. Yet all the humans still love her (except for two who are demonized) and change the way they act because of her. How does she win over the humans? By telling them stories about the creatures she's been on all the ridiculously named planets she's been on. Later on she wins over all the other stranglers by bringing them medicine. Which she only does because Mel's little brother Jamie stabbed himself in the knee with a knife and got an infection (which was the Doc's fault since he knew they didn't have any medicine and the safest thing to do after it was getting worse was to amputate). This might have meant more to me if it wasn't for the fact that the names of the alien medicines were as followed: Cool No Pain Heal Smooth Clean Awake Also, one of them is literally just glitter. Whoever said that Stephenie Meyer was creative must be feeling pretty silly right about now. But lemme get right to the romances, which, really are the plot of this story and the only thing complex for some reason. Ian, who is one of the blandest love interests I've ever read, just keeps going on about how sweet and pure Wanda is constantly. I mean constantly . The process of Wanda/Ian falling in love is just so disgusting. Not only because he continues to ignore the fact that it is not Wanda's body he's kissing and that Mel has a right to it, but he seems willing to kill his own brother to protect the very thing he's been fighting against. Why? Because she is good. He would rather have Mel go away and lose all rights to her body than allow Wanda to leave and stop being a parasite (her words not mine). He is a selfish prick who has no right to say that or call Jared selfish for wanting the woman (teenager) he fell in \"love\" with to be returned to her body. But that's towards the ending and I'll get to that after this romance crap. However, Ian/Wanda isn't nearly as backwards as Jared/Mel. Well, maybe it is. This couple has abuse written all over it. In fact, flashback shows that when they first met Jared was trying to kill her because he thought she was an alien. When he discovered she wasn't he was so happy he kissed her...then she kicked him (Recycled scene anyone). Then they later decide to be the new Adam/Eve and go look for Melanie's brother, Jamie, together. They stay in this house and after two weeks Mel is ready to give herself to him completely because who wants to be a virgin during the end of the world. When Mel decided to go in search of her cousin Sharon (which is how she gets captured by the aliens in the first place) she thinks that being without Jared would be like dying. By the way, she's seventeen and he's twenty-six. The romance doesn't end there because there is also: Wanda/Jared/Mel. Because of Mel's memories Wanda starts to fall in love with Jared. Jared of course hates Wanda (rightfully so) and promptly beats the crap out of her. This of course doesn't stop Wanda or Mel from loving him because they know that \"he has a right to be angry.\" Ugh. There are so many things wrong with this that I can not go into. Jared doesn't start to like or defend Wanda until he realizes that Mel is still inside Wanda. He realizes this by kissing Wanda, therefore making Mel jealous, therefore allowing Mel to control her body long enough to punch Jared ala first meeting. Yes, the romance is boring and trite, just like everything else in this damn book. There is no climax. Even when they find the Seeker, who does nothing, Wanda, in her immense goodness, finds a way to not only humanize the Seeker, but to rescue her. I'm trying my best to tell you what this book is about, but honestly it is about nothing. I'm going through my notes on the book and I have found nothing really worth writing about. The story is that bland and uninteresting. The characters are so badly written because Meyer is trying to force us to like her leads by making them perfectly flawless. Even Wanda, who starts off as a terrible liar, is a good enough liar to steal from an alien hospital. However, what really irritates me about this book is the ending. I was already irritated because the way the story was being set up was that we (the human readers) are supposed to be rooting for the body-snatching, world cleansing aliens because they are \"good\" and we are supposed to be seeing the human resistance as bad because humanity (as presented in this book) is incapable of respecting and taking good care of our beautiful planet. Then we are supposed to see that is wrong through Wanda's eyes. The problem is she doesn't believe that the aliens are wrong. She only feels bad for her adoptive family. Not to mention she doesn't care about any of her other host bodies because according to her \"none of them are as emotionally complex as humans.\" That is awful. Sure I don't care about the Dolphins and Spiders and certainly not the See-Weeds, but the way she can dismiss them their emotions and claim that they have no problem with having their bodies taken over is so pompous and arrogant I was to stop on Wanda's head. It gets worse. When Wanda decides that she wants to be a Love Martyr and wants to die on Earth, nearly everyone INCLUDING MEL wants her to stay. Ian of course is the most asinine of them all and says that they need Wanda more than Mel. AND MEL AGREES! However, let me get to the absolute the worst part that ruins every single character in this book. SO our Love Martyr decides to die and before she is going to be cut open the Doc says \"You are the noblest, purest creature I've ever met. The universe will be a darker place without you.\" [Page 555] GAG ME. But thats just the wind up, here's the pitch. Mel, Jared and Jamie take a soul girl and remove her soul to give Wanda a new body. ENTIRE POINT OF WANDA'S \"SACRIFICE\" WASTED! This is absolute worst book I've read since Evermore. It is so bad I did not care for any of the two character deaths that took place. The book is poison to the Sci-Fi genre. I don't care if it is for people who \"don't like Sci-Fi\", as a writer she should have a little damn respect for the genre that she is writing in. I am done with this book and to anyone who liked this book, please tell me why. If anyone is looking for a story that has sympathetic aliens and a complex human character look no further: Final Grade: F I may not like Stephenie Meyer's other work, but I was trying to give her a chance in this book. After all writers get better the more they write don't they? Well this proved me wrong. People said the writing in this is better than Twilight, well I was too bored to notice. The story is just not interesting because it doesn't even seem like she's trying. From the dull alien names to the tacked on romance and cop out ending, this proves to me that Mrs. Meyer's writing has not only failed to improve, but she regressed by writing this book. Everyone who has been shielding her from constructive criticism needs to stop holding her hand. The only way she is ever going to get out of her comfort zone is to be told that her formula isn't working. Then again this book was on the NY Bestseller's list for Twenty-Six weeks. So either I'm wrong or the adult genre is taking a highway to hell. Which is frustrating because I have some good property down there. Melina's Notes: -So far (at the prologue) the story seems like it might be interesting. Curious about the girl and what the ugly worm thing is. Meyer is still using her prose, but so far don't want to die. Chap 1.) So are we supposed to be rooting for the aliens who steal people's bodies and then subject us to mindless internal dialogue? Chap 2.) So...we are rooting for the aliens? We are supposed to want them to take us over? Really Meyer? Sigh. I'm so bored. Chap 3.) Human Resistance. So there are humans who would prefer not to have their bodies taken over by aliens and they are the bad guys?| Melanie Stryder? Really?| Jared? I smell a love interest. Chap 4.) Another useless female lead. | Alright she knees him when he kisses her. Good Girl. | Liquid Sienna eyes? | So then Mel kisses him and its Love *Yuck* | It was all a dream. | Memory *gasp* Chap 5.) So there are shrinks for aliens? Alien college too? This is a comedy isn't it, cause its funny like a mo-fo. So...am I supposed to care that the alien is crying? Seriously, they are justifying the body-snatching cause humans are bad? | Christ shut up alien! It's not your body! Chap 6.) I don't care about damn see-weeds. Chap 7.) Boring chapter, but maybe the humans are going to be the heroes. Maybe... Chap 8.) Yes, saying you'd die is too melodramatic. 17 & 26 *Gasp* Why are Meyer's leads so ready to throw themselves at the first guy they meet. Chap 9.) So the alien now loves Jared. How shocking /sarcasm. Chap 10.) So aliens really think no one minds them stealing the bodies of other people/creatures. Chap 11.) The soul is finally having doubts about what she does. | *Dalek Voice* Evil humans must exterminate. Chap 12.) They didn't die :( Chap 13.) Killers? Your taking over their planet! Chap 14.) So he slaps her and she comes back? Idiot Melanie! Chap 15-16.) So because Jared is keeping them from being killed we are supposed to feel his pain? Melanie is a pushover. Chap 17.) I like Jamie, best character besides Kyle in the whole damn book. Chap 18- 23.) So they have her telling stories and somehow Jeb just knows Mel is there? Ian is sympathetic for some reason and Jamie is adorable. Humans are being painted in an annoyingly negative light. Chap 24-37.) All the humans in this story are idiots, total morons. They are allowing this alien to live with them. Jeb needs to be shot with his own gun. If he is considered to be intelligent then no wonder humans have been taken over. Jared is now a whipped prick along with Ian. Wanda is a stupid character who only cares about humans because of Mel's emotions. If she honestly felt bad she would give Mel her body back and not refer to the body as \"hers\". She and those perfect souls are the dumbest creatures on Earth. Yet they have no freaking flaws! Kyle is the only one with common sense and he's supposed to be the bad guy. He has every logical reason to want Wanda dead. Mel & Jared are a stupid couple. Chap 30-End) This story is so asinine. Wanda is an alien who hates her kind, but not really. Hates humans and finds them to be monsters for wanting to protect their own kind! (Facepalm) Stop calling the body yours. | Alien medicine names [Cool, No Pain, Heal, Smooth, Clean, Awake]. One of them is glitter. | Ian is so dull. | Melanie you are a turd and should go away, except take Mel with you. | Ian shut up please. | \"You are the noblest, purest creature I've ever met. The universe will be a darker place without you.\" [Page 555] Gag me for the love of Azula. | They took a human soul and used her to give Wanda a new body which goes against the whole point of her doing the one selfless act in this entire book. This is pure bullshit and I feel disgusted with every single character in this book. Even Kyle is dead to me. Epic Fail. ...more It finally ended. OMG LONGEST BOOK EVER. This could have been an incredible book. The premise is AMAZING. Advanced aliens who call themselves \u201csouls\u201d conquer Earth by implanting themselves into their human hosts and taking over their bodies. Yeah, it\u2019s a \u201cbody snatcher\u201d theme. The alien who calls herself Wanderer has lived nine different lives on nine different planets as nine different sentient species\u2026 Awesome sci-fi stuff. I really wanted to like this. Duh, Twilight and all. But just imagine the It finally ended. OMG LONGEST BOOK EVER. This could have been an incredible book. The premise is AMAZING. Advanced aliens who call themselves \u201csouls\u201d conquer Earth by implanting themselves into their human hosts and taking over their bodies. Yeah, it\u2019s a \u201cbody snatcher\u201d theme. The alien who calls herself Wanderer has lived nine different lives on nine different planets as nine different sentient species\u2026 Awesome sci-fi stuff. I really wanted to like this. Duh, Twilight and all. But just imagine the annoying love triangle, only NO ONE is a vampire or werewolf! Pffft. AND.... half of the love... square... is two people in one body. Wanderer's new host on Earth is named Melanie. Wanderer discovers Melanie is not content to just let her take over. Wanderer is led to the life and people Melanie left behind. The resistance. Her brother. Her true love. New friends. A new romantic interest for Wanderer? (Yes, there is a disturbing weird love triangle between Melanie/Jared and Wanderer/Ian (Melanie and Wanderer being in the same body/mind.) ANYWAY. Like I said, COULD HAVE BEEN. Instead, it\u2019s a bloated 600+ filler/padded book with a lot of not-much going on and a bit of awesome plot. There is some good world-building, however, WAY too much of Melanie baking bread and doing chores with the humans, and I think I know why all that was added in. To make Wanderer (shortened to WANDA by Jeb \u2013 kind of dumb, I mean, how much harder is it to say Wanderer? Really?). Seems like a Renesmee thing to me. TOO MUCH FILLER. This book should have been edited better and at least a hundred pages could have been cut from this mammoth. There is just no reason for it to be so long. NO REASON. NO. Stop, Stephenie Meyer. Stop writing bloated books. I loved Twilight, but not even those books needed to be so freaking long. I actually loved Wanderer (no I will not call her Wanda. Sorrynotsorry). She was a good being, pure. She learned and adapted and was not rigid or cold. She evolved past her own species and accepted and embraced it. She was willing to share her host body, where everyone else of her kind would not dare. It wasn\u2019t even that she dared, she just transcended the idea that her species must conquer. I dug it. Sigh. HOWEVER. All the other BS in this book that padded it\u2026 Sigh. And then the \u201clove square\u201d blows up and we have the male romantic interests actually ASKING the other Wanda/Melanie personality to let the one they like \u201cout\u201d to talk\u2026 I think I liked the baking bread and chores section better. The romantic leads sucked, but especially Jared. I hated him. No feelings whatsoever for him. Oh wait, except hatred. The resolution was stupid. Wanderer ended up being a wishy-washy perfect special snowflake. My least favorite SM book by far. I'll take Jacob/Bella/Edward angst any day. Imma go re-read Eclipse again. AND THAT SHOULD TELL YOU SOMETHING RIGHT THERE. Original post: This is (for whatever reason) the first book I added to my TBR shelf when I joined GRs. I am reading this for a challenge. I will defeat you, book. ...more I still l\u2661ve this one \u263a Wanda is so self-sacrificing, and the way everybody hates her and grows to love her is inspiring \u263a Totally prefer the book to the movie though \u263a Wanderer has just arrived on Earth and been implanted into her new host. She has lived on seven worlds before coming here. She is arriving toward the end of the alien invasion when very few humans remain. The aliens are known as \u201csouls\u201d and are a peace loving type that don\u2019t know of violence or lying. Very few humans remain on Earth. When the remaining humans are discovered, they are captured by Seekers - the closest thing to a police force the \u201csouls\u201d have. Once captured, they are prepared for i Wanderer has just arrived on Earth and been implanted into her new host. She has lived on seven worlds before coming here. She is arriving toward the end of the alien invasion when very few humans remain. The aliens are known as \u201csouls\u201d and are a peace loving type that don\u2019t know of violence or lying. Very few humans remain on Earth. When the remaining humans are discovered, they are captured by Seekers - the closest thing to a police force the \u201csouls\u201d have. Once captured, they are prepared for implantation where a small cut is placed at the base of the skull and the \u201csoul\u201d is put in the body. The \u201csoul\u201d connects to the body and takes control. The first experience the \u201csoul\u201d has is the receiving of the host body\u2019s memories. Typically, the host recedes and leaves the \u201csoul\u201d alone to continue life as usual. For Wanderer, this didn\u2019t happen. Since the only humans left are ones that are rebels, placing a new \u201csoul\u201d into an adult has become risky. The rebels seem to resist the implantation since they know what is happening. The Wanderer was granted this request because of her experience on so many other worlds and has proven herself as a strong and brave \u201csoul.\u201d Melanie is the name of Wanderer\u2019s host and Melanie doesn\u2019t go away quietly. Melanie remains active and talks to Wanderer all the time. Melanie bombards Wanderer with her memories of life so much so that Wanderer feels the same feelings that Melanie did when she had control over her own body. Melanie hides the memories that Wanderer needs though. A Seeker has been assigned to Wanderer in order to get information about the human rebels that worked with Melanie. Melanie is strong enough to block those memories from her. Eventually, in a weakened state, Melanie allows something to slip through the wall she has constructed to keep Wanderer away from the people she loves. She shows her memories of Jared, the man Melanie desperately loves, and Jamie, her younger brother. These memories overwhelm Wanderer and she physically aches for Jared and Jamie herself. Melanie knows where they might have gone into hiding since she was captured. She convinces Wanderer to go search for them and when the chance presents itself she slips away from the Seeker and sets off to find the people THEY love. When Wanderer finally stumbles upon the rebels she is both elated and terrified. She is so relieved to know that Jared and Jamie are both alive and well, but at the same time, is frightened for her own life. Wanderer endures weeks of isolation and deprivation once in custody while the rebels decide what to do with her. Slowly some people warm up to her and begin to allow her some freedom around the hideout, but she is never alone. They are afraid she is there to get information to take back to the Seekers and then come back and capture them all. It takes a very long time for them to see that she has no intention of turning anyone in to the Seekers. The story is complex. Not only is there the issue of Melanie loving Jared and the Wanderer loving Jared because of Melanie\u2019s memories; we also have Ian, another member of the rebels. Ian takes it upon himself to become a permanent fixture in Wanderers life. He is friend and protector and begins to have feelings for her and her alone (not Melanie since he didn\u2019t know her prior to the invasion). The story ends on a note of hope. It is an emotional ride from beginning to end - all 631 pages. Any science fiction fan will enjoy this story, but I think Stephenie Meyer may have done for science fiction what she did for fantasy when she wrote Twilight. THE HOST is set in enough of a realistic setting that even people who aren\u2019t sci-fi fans will enjoy this story. I want to read it again, but I have so much else to read that I can\u2019t right now, but THE HOST is definately on my \u201cto be read again\u201d pile. I hope Stephenie Meyer writes another novel after she finishes with the Twilight Series. ...more I have to say I was not expecting this book to be as good as it was! Even though the first 150 pages or so are slightly slow the rest of the book is fast paced and becomes a very interesting read. Would defiantly recommend this book to anyone who is even slightly interested in it! Edited after seeing the movie: I went with my daughters to see the movie adaptation of The Host this evening, and was reminded of how much I loved this book. That said, it's as it was with the Twilight books-to-movie adaptation and the movies didn't do the books justice, and neither did it for The Host, which is one of my favorite stories. My point is, please don't let the movie scare you off. If you go see it and find the story compelling but the acting not so much, please pick up the book and r Edited after seeing the movie: I went with my daughters to see the movie adaptation of The Host this evening, and was reminded of how much I loved this book. That said, it's as it was with the Twilight books-to-movie adaptation and the movies didn't do the books justice, and neither did it for The Host, which is one of my favorite stories. My point is, please don't let the movie scare you off. If you go see it and find the story compelling but the acting not so much, please pick up the book and read it. It is so, so good, but there's too much story packed into the novel to fit it into a 2 hour movie and make it work. ----------- Original Review: Another fabulous story by Stephenie Meyer. Who ever thought a love triangle could exist between 2 people? I loved the descriptions, the characters, the conflicts and the resolutions. There's one thing that you can count on Stephenie Meyer to deliver, and that's a tale with intricately woven story lines, lots of plot twists and turns AND a happy ending. I'm hoping she'll be writing the next books in the series, soon! ...more Mrs. Meyers and I can no longer be tortured friends. Maybe someday I can finish this poor excuse for a novel, but I'm going to relieve myself of the misery for now. The premise was fine, but the dysfunctional psychological processes of every single character has me truly sick. Not to mention that Melanie Stryder, (i mean, Bella Swan...) is essentially the same pathetic female character that we've seen in the Twilight series. I'm done. I have been mystified by this writer because so very many peo Mrs. Meyers and I can no longer be tortured friends. Maybe someday I can finish this poor excuse for a novel, but I'm going to relieve myself of the misery for now. The premise was fine, but the dysfunctional psychological processes of every single character has me truly sick. Not to mention that Melanie Stryder, (i mean, Bella Swan...) is essentially the same pathetic female character that we've seen in the Twilight series. I'm done. I have been mystified by this writer because so very many people adore her, but I just don't get it. What is going on here? I've tried to understand it, tried to give it the benefit of my time, and all i get out of it is a surge in my blood pressure from pure undiluted frustration. It's tragic that a person so gifted with plot construction is singularly unable to portray gratifying or realistic characters with any thread of substance. Then again, I haven't finished the book - but right now, I can't see that happening. Two days earlier: ...i'm struggling even to continue. The day before: On chapter 20-something of the audio version. So far, the writing is acceptable, the plot interesting. Still, there's an icky stickly something that still bothers me about the way Mrs. Meyers writes...the logic that all her characters utilize seems flawed in some fundamental way. But, I'm squirming much less than while listening to the Twilight series. ...more I was pretty iffy about this book going in--I've read all of Stephenie Meyer's other books (the Twilight series) and they're decently good, but nothing amazing. I'm not big on sappy romances, and I was concerned that this would just be one big huge romance like the others. I was surprised, definitely. While it does have romantic elements to the story, it didn't feel like the romance took over the plot and didn't allow for any real story to happen. What I liked the best about this book is how much I was pretty iffy about this book going in--I've read all of Stephenie Meyer's other books (the Twilight series) and they're decently good, but nothing amazing. I'm not big on sappy romances, and I was concerned that this would just be one big huge romance like the others. I was surprised, definitely. While it does have romantic elements to the story, it didn't feel like the romance took over the plot and didn't allow for any real story to happen. What I liked the best about this book is how much thought it seems Stephenie Meyer actually put into it. I really liked her mythos for the souls (the aliens who have invaded and taken over humans as their hosts), and the interesting planets she concocted. Something about it just seemed like she actually put forth some real world-building to come up with a very very fascinating race of invading aliens, I loved it. It was also really nice for me that the story was actually from the perspective of one of those very interesting aliens, rather than a human protagonist. I liked seeing the human race through the eyes of a gentle, non-warlike creature like Wanderer. And, despite it being told from an alien's perspective, it really was a story about human nature and what it means to be human. Definitely a lot more meaningful than her Twilight books. I went in being confused that it was an adult novel, because at the beginning it easily could have been a young adult novel like her others. The further I read, the more the classification made sense. The book delves into some pretty heavy thoughts about morality, and there are some very violent scenes (specifically men beating on a helpless woman) that are pretty rough. As someone who wasn't all that impressed by her Twilight books, I'm happy to say I really enjoyed this and had a really hard time putting it down at times. It's not without faults, but Meyer has definitely grown as an author and I hope we'll see more meaningful books like this from her! ...more So much potential in this book. I don't understand why Stephenie Meyer isn't continuing the sequels and it's been 8 years since this was published. I love Twilight Saga but this is better and I'm not kidding. I have watched the movie first without any idea of the story and I really enjoyed it but my reading experience was incredible. \"Souls\" are parasitic like aliens invading the humans on Earth making them as their host . These souls lived for thousands of years and have taken over many living t So much potential in this book. I don't understand why Stephenie Meyer isn't continuing the sequels and it's been 8 years since this was published. I love Twilight Saga but this is better and I'm not kidding. I have watched the movie first without any idea of the story and I really enjoyed it but my reading experience was incredible. \"Souls\" are parasitic like aliens invading the humans on Earth making them as their host . These souls lived for thousands of years and have taken over many living things but humans are challenging because some of them are resistant to be inhabited. With a surgical procedure, these parasites were put in their hosts and they gain access on their memories. It's their decision to adapt their host's memories or erase them completely and make a new identity for themselves. Mostly, they erase them and it's like killing their souls but the body remains alive. The concept is fascinating, unique and intriguing. Despite of the slow pacing, everything in this book is intricate. Our main characters are Wanderer/Wanda , a soul and Melanie Stryder , a human. Wanderer occupies Melanie's body but Melanie's memory is strong and vivid and her presence makes it difficult for her to fully take over. These two communicated through the mind and somehow shared a bond. Wanderer is a special soul. She's humble, selfless and caring. While Melanie is a courageous, tough and bold woman. These two were different in some ways but they are both complex and I love them equally as heroines. They helped each other to find Jared Howe, Melanie's boyfriend and Jamie, Melanie's younger brother and locate Jeb's hideout (Melanie's uncle) which is an enormous cave. There are other humans in the cave and they are against Wanda to live with them. It took time before they got used to her and assured that she's not going to expose them to Seekers. Wanda adapted to human ways and she really appreciate their acceptance to her. She works hard like and even it's dangerous, she help on raids later on. The romance in this book is fascinating. It is a love triangle (but not really) and it's well done.You don't know how torn I am between Ian O'Shea and Jared Howe. Goodness gracious, Jared is more of a bad boy than Ian. You know how I love bad boys but how can I resist Ian? He's so sweet, protective and gentle. I can't decide who I want. With Max Irons and Jake Abel portraying them? Perfect! Especially Max Irons ASDFGHJKL ;) Seriously, I am hoping Stephenie Meyer will continue writing the sequels. My waiting game is ON...forever. ...more Let me start off by saying that I wanted to like this book sooooooo very much. But unfortunately I was disappointed. I was excited about Stephanie\u2019s description of a love triangle with only two bodies, and that the book was advertised as an \u201cAdult\u201d book. But when the main female character, Melanie, is 17 and the main male character, Jared, is 26, I was put off. I do not have a problem with the age difference just how young she is. It would not have detracted at all from their relationship or the Let me start off by saying that I wanted to like this book sooooooo very much. But unfortunately I was disappointed. I was excited about Stephanie\u2019s description of a love triangle with only two bodies, and that the book was advertised as an \u201cAdult\u201d book. But when the main female character, Melanie, is 17 and the main male character, Jared, is 26, I was put off. I do not have a problem with the age difference just how young she is. It would not have detracted at all from their relationship or the plot if they had made her 23 or 24 and him 32 or 33. If you are going to put the characters in adult circumstances, then make the characters adults. I understand that she has a 14 year old brother but that is easily reconciled by saying that she is the oldest of 5 children and he the youngest. It is also unrealistic for me to believe that once again the young female is the temptress and the older man is the levelheaded moral one. This age difference is revisited again at the end of the book and it only added to my angst. Some might argue that I just don\u2019t care for Science Fiction or that I was hoping for a Bella and Edward relationship, to them I say Ha! I love Science Fiction and I am not dumb enough to think that she would recreate Bella and Edward\u2019s romance with different character names. I also felt like this was a 300 page story told in 600 pages. I t seemed like she was trying to legitimize the passing of time by accounting for every moment. There were several times in the book that dragged and were a chore to get through. That is not what you want in a good Science Fiction Book. I am sure that some may disagree with my critique so let\u2019s have it. Luff, Becca Jane ...more Before I get into details, let me just say this: Stephenie Meyer is an excellent author and i would gladly recommend ANY of her novels. She posses the ability to pull the reader into the story and allow them to feel like they are actually there with the characters, experiencing what they experience and feeling what they feel. She paints a vivid picture of the characters and their lives in the mind of every reader who is fortunate enough to be touched by the worlds that she creates. Reading one o Before I get into details, let me just say this: Stephenie Meyer is an excellent author and i would gladly recommend ANY of her novels. She posses the ability to pull the reader into the story and allow them to feel like they are actually there with the characters, experiencing what they experience and feeling what they feel. She paints a vivid picture of the characters and their lives in the mind of every reader who is fortunate enough to be touched by the worlds that she creates. Reading one of her works is like being in 3-d theater but better, its actually more like being in a 6-D theater, touching all of the human senses and emotion at once. It is hard to find a flaw in the novel by itself, when not being compared to her other works. Now having said that, there are a few criticisms that i have for this novel in comparison to her other works. The quality of the novel does stand up to the standards set by her preceding works. But, despite the creative story line and captivating emotions shown in The Host, there are some flaws to be found in the depth of the characters. I am a fan of the Twilight series, also by Stephenie Meyer, and could not stop myself from finding many links between this novel and the Twilight series in regards to the characters, their emotions and their interconnected relationships. For example, the character Jared (from The Host) is very similar to Jacob (From Twilight). Both have a tendency to let their emotions get the best of them, both are somewhat selfish creatures in regards to the one that they love, and both are extremely stubborn. The characters Ian (The host) and Edward (Twilight) are the same way, comparatively. Both are overly protective and somewhat irrational when it comes to the people that they love, both have the ability to love unconditionally despite the fact that both men love someone of a different species, and both men's brothers try to kill their partners. The greatest character similarity, however, exists between Wanderer/Melanie (The Host) and Bella (Twilight). The complexity of the characters is amazing in both novels. In both there are two different personalities existing in one body, each personality belonging to a different man that the characters love. There are two parts to Bella (Twilight) one in love Jacob (Twilight) and one in love with Edward (Twilight), but one love is stronger than the other. She describes the strain between the two as \"tearing her apart.\" The same its to be said for Wanderer/Melanie (The Host), but to a more extreme extent. In this case there are actually two separate entities existing in one body \"tearing them apart\". One personality , Wanda [Wanderer] (The Host), belonging to Ian (The Host); and the other personality, Melanie (The Host), belonging to Jared (The Host). Wanda (The Host) and Bella (Twilight) are both very self-sacrificing people who would go to the ends of the earth to prevent the ones that they love from hurting and would do anything in their power to make them happy. Both are very non-violent and even show compassion for enemies. Melanie (The Host) and Bella (Twilight) are both tough individuals possessing the ability to reason through stressful situations. All of the characters do possess unique qualities as well, and display different depths of emotions. I may be just more attuned to the personalities presented in Twilight (due to my love of the series), and couldn't help but find similarities between it and The Host. But then again, If I am this attuned to the character's personalities after simply reading the series, imagine how predisposed to the personality traits Stephenie Meyer is. So I suppose that after spending so much time creating and writing about the characters, letting them become apart of you, that it would be impossible to completely separate them from your other works. For is each work not expression of the soul as well, and it is impossible, as an author, to exclude part of yourself from your writings. Read The Host, I think that you will enjoy it. I know that I did. ...more OH MY...(deep breath) word. No book has ever made me want to run so much -- just to feel my muscles working, ever made me treasure the rise and fall of my lungs, feel the wind on my face, or treasure the feel of water as it gracefully slides down my throat, no book has ever made me understand so fully how... just how we should be treasured. Words cannot express how much I love this bood. If you havn't read the book yet, exit out of this RIGHT NOW because here come some major spoilers from about h OH MY...(deep breath) word. No book has ever made me want to run so much -- just to feel my muscles working, ever made me treasure the rise and fall of my lungs, feel the wind on my face, or treasure the feel of water as it gracefully slides down my throat, no book has ever made me understand so fully how... just how we should be treasured. Words cannot express how much I love this bood. If you havn't read the book yet, exit out of this RIGHT NOW because here come some major spoilers from about here on!! The whole Mel and Jared thing just totally rips your heart up! When Wanda goes to die, I was not able to see, that was so freakin'... ouch. I totally love Jeb, his personality is so... unique and... hilarious. My heart goes out to Jamie, he's such a cute kid! I just love his, Mel's, and Wanda's relationship! Ian, what can I say to give Ian justice... I totally love him, he's so kind, compasionate, understanding. He's so protective and... deep. At the end I just couldn't take it any longer, it was so sad. But I don't exactly like how she lies about her age, Meyer seemed to go a little closer to the line this time... I also really love how much strength Wanda has and yet how she's so... gentle and protective (minus her mourning period, that was... horrid, I love how Stephenie Meyer described that sickening experience so that you were in Wanda's head). For some reason I just don't think that her new body suited her, it was too week, but then again she'll grow, but that's kinda creepy 'cause you don't really know Ian's age, but I guess that doesn't really matter... I guess. I think latter on the body will suit her more, but it's kinda weird with no Mel. I think that I relate myself most to Wanda, but also a lot with Meline (I completely love that girl to death!). I guess I just have duel personalities like they do, I'm both of them at once, but I have to admit I'm with Wanda on a lot of stuff... a lot. I love how far she was willing to go for the people she loved, the way she thought. I love that they say that she was so beautiful, it goes with her, it's like seeing someone's soul (no pun intended) and you just know how... pure she is, she was willing to die trying to save Kyle when he tried to kill her. But it was also awkward with Jared and Ian fighting all the time, Jared knew Mel and Ian knew Wanda(I like it when he calls her Wanderer, I think it goes with her better then Wanda). I was goint to say something else about Wanderer, but I seem to have forgotten and I believe the memory has no intention of coming back. But I love how she wants to run down a field with bare feet while it's raining, I think that is when I truely broke, she never wanted anything for herself and the things she wanted were denied her(minus Ian...). I laughed at so many parts and cried just the same, such depths of depression and leaps of joy. I think (how many sentences have I started with I think or I also or I totally?) that Stephenie was smart with how she ended the book, it gave her a lot of options. One she could write a book in Burn's perspective. Two, she could write a sequel. Or three, just leave it where it is, but that would make me sad and also strangly relieved. So, I think my goal here was reached, I just totally spilled my guts out to you about the book. If any one really cares to read all this (PLEASE TELL ME YOU HAVE READ THE BOOK ALREADY IF YOU'RE READING THIS!!!)and if you're about to explode, talk to me about it, maybe you'll be able to help me remember that amazing, stupid quote I forgot (not likely...). ...more I just wanna pick it right back up and read it again! Looooove After a couple of nightmare slogs, it's time for some comfort food. ______________________________ 2010 Review My brother is moving to New York in a couple of weeks, and it breaks my heart more than a little. I totally love that guy, and New York will be lucky to have him. It\u2019s really far away, though. I went to pick him up in Bend a few weeks back so that he could use my car for a weekend, and I got the audio version of this book at the library on my way there. I picked it up because I totally fre After a couple of nightmare slogs, it's time for some comfort food. ______________________________ 2010 Review My brother is moving to New York in a couple of weeks, and it breaks my heart more than a little. I totally love that guy, and New York will be lucky to have him. It\u2019s really far away, though. I went to pick him up in Bend a few weeks back so that he could use my car for a weekend, and I got the audio version of this book at the library on my way there. I picked it up because I totally freaking love this book, even though none of the book makes that much sense if you think about it for, like, two seconds. I have even loved this audio experience, though it is just about the worst audio in the whole wide world, and the reader does maybe every single thing that bugs me. Anyway, there are some books I could read whenever: Wuthering Heights , Our Mutual Friend . I can\u2019t defend myself about this, but I think The Host is in that group. Meyer\u2019s people all live in some kind of graphic novel, with their gaping, grimacing, hissing, eye bulging, and clenching of teeth. I know, no one hisses, do they? And then there is the problem about the first person narrator always being able, somehow, to see the nuances of people\u2019s emotions through their eyes, no matter how far away the person is standing, or how little blocking sense that actually makes in a given room or tunnel or cave. And we won\u2019t even talk about how awful the names are. I know about that, too. Whatever, haters, I don\u2019t care. I totally freaking love this book. The audio book is, and I\u2019m not kidding, 23.5 hours long. I\u2019m not even done with it. I\u2019m actually still listening to it right now, but I know how it ends because I've read it before, so don't get up in my grill tautologically about the inherent worth in the work itself and my duties as an audience. Anyway, the reader of the audio book really savors every word. Very dramatic, you know. She totally kills me. I missed a lot of the first half because my brother listened to it over the weekend when he had the car. He came back gaping, grimacing, hissing, and generally making fun of it. His eyes really bulged and glinted with mirth, and all that. We listened to it together, driving back to Bend, and there was a lot more clenching of teeth from his side of the car. I don\u2019t know. We\u2019ve all talked to death the problems with the Meyer writing and the Meyer love story and the Meyer world building. I realized, though, that in all honesty Meyer does write something that really touches me: families. I think her families are so comforting, even in their conscious mish-mashiness. True, her heroines want to kill themselves so you\u2019ll be happy, and that\u2019s weird. But in this book, for example, the heroine\u2019s (heroines\u2019?) love of her brother and her adopted family is something genuine and something that I totally dig. I mean, obviously, this book is awesome because it has sweet, cuddly body snatchers, and that allows for a love triangle with only two bodies and then, later, a love quadrangle with only three bodies. No funny business, though. All PG here, gang. And, the love geometry stays pretty polite the whole time; no obnoxious LOST stuff going on. The other kind of cool thing about this book is that it passes the Bechtel test because there are, like, two girls stuck in one body and they chat about things. They\u2019re not Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton hatching women\u2019s suffrage, or anything, but I\u2019m not too demanding. Anyway, family. Don\u2019t tell my brother, but I\u2019m a little torn up about him moving away. Very excited for him, but a little torn up. It\u2019s been nice to listen to all the descriptions of how much this girl loves her brother and her adopted family in these extreme situations, where she has to run through the desert and battle renegade cave-dwellers for them. Don't get me wrong, it's ultimately pretty tame, but it's extreme in a sentimental, hearth-and-home way. I don\u2019t know; it\u2019s comforting. I don\u2019t really care that it\u2019s ridiculous in so many ways or that it\u2019s broken up with tedious descriptions of food and every other little thing. Sue me. I think this book is probably Meyer\u2019s best so far, just in a technical sense. It stands alone, which is a relief, and none of the characters are supposed to be perfect. The main character is a little annoying, in a doormat kind of way, but I\u2019m still okay with her. Don\u2019t get me wrong. I\u2019m not telling you to read it. You\u2019d probably freaking hate it. I was just getting sentimental about family, and so was Stephenie Meyer, so I thought I\u2019d come here and tell you about it. ...more I didn't like the book. Yeah, I know that Stephenie Meyer's books are popular, but her characters are two-dimensional. I want to read plausible dialogue with honest emotions, not Soap Opera speak. This book also needs a good editor: bigger is not always better--entire chapters need to be cut out. And if you think that Bella* is self sacrificing, just wait till you meet the Wanderer. (The Wanderer is a parasitic alien that lives in the body of a human host, a 20-year-old girl named Melanie.) The I didn't like the book. Yeah, I know that Stephenie Meyer's books are popular, but her characters are two-dimensional. I want to read plausible dialogue with honest emotions, not Soap Opera speak. This book also needs a good editor: bigger is not always better--entire chapters need to be cut out. And if you think that Bella* is self sacrificing, just wait till you meet the Wanderer. (The Wanderer is a parasitic alien that lives in the body of a human host, a 20-year-old girl named Melanie.) The aliens take over planet Earth by surgically inserting themselves into the brains of humans. (Once implanted the human soul dies.) The aliens then live human lives: they shop, watch TV, play sports, eat Cheetos, etcetera. The only thing that is different about them is that they're super nice...in a Stepford Wives sort of way. They're also very altruistic creatures--except for the fact that they've killed off creatures from 9 worlds. The aliens also live in Communist-like communities and are strangely naive. They're also incredibly boring: at the Olympics everyone wins a medal; movies always have a happy ending; and there are never any conflicts--well, except for those pesky humans that don't want to die... *Bella is a character from Meyer's Twilight series. ...more", "Title": "The Host"},
