{"Comments": "Few books have ever moved me to tears. Sure, I get sad every once in a while when reading a story, but hardly ever do I feel like crying after a novel. THE CELLIST OF SARAJEVO made me cry. Not face trembling, snot pouring from the nose type of crying, rather, the tears that came from completion of this novel were from a deep sadness I rarely experience. But before getting to my crying episode, let me first share a few things that I found amazing with this book: 1) It was written by Steve Galloway Few books have ever moved me to tears. Sure, I get sad every once in a while when reading a story, but hardly ever do I feel like crying after a novel. THE CELLIST OF SARAJEVO made me cry. Not face trembling, snot pouring from the nose type of crying, rather, the tears that came from completion of this novel were from a deep sadness I rarely experience. But before getting to my crying episode, let me first share a few things that I found amazing with this book: 1)\tIt was written by Steve Galloway,<---M> a Canadian</---M>, who has no ties with the people or the city of Sarajevo 2)\tThis story is based on the real life event of Vedran Smailovic, a cellist who played for 22 days as snipers fought each other in the buildings surrounding him 3)\tEven the people that do not have major roles in the novel are given a voice through the actions, inactions, emotions, and thoughts of the ones that are actively described and followed, which gives this book a Dickensian quality that I admire and appreciate because the novel is only 235 pages long 4)\tThe simple fact that this story was told at all\u2026history has had a funny way of forgetting this part of the world. The story opens in a war-torn part of Sarajevo. People are mulling about, trying to live their lives as best they can in a besieged city. As they try to hustle each other for food or information or cigarettes, a whistle splits the air\u2026.a mortar has landed among them, killing 22, maiming countless others. These are civilians that have been targeted.<---F> They pose no military threat</---F>. Most of the killed are women and children. The next day, at approximately the same time that the mortar fell, a man enters the street carrying a cello case, sets up a chair, and opens the cello case. He takes his time. Almost as if time no longer exists for him. And in a way, for the man and the people of Sarajevo, time is no longer a constricting factor on their lives. After he has opened the case, he takes out his cello and begins to tune it. Again, time plays no part here. He is not here for the rebels; he is not here for a political statement. He is here for the ones that are no longer able to be there. Slowly, like a surgeon making the first cut for open heart surgery, he draws his bow across the strings and plays. Music fills the empty air. And for a bit, anger and violence are no longer heard. Had this been a one-time occurrence, this story would be a footnote in world history, a hushed whisper among historical enthusiasts. But the next day the cellist does the same thing; and he continues to partake in this seemingly idiotic music playing for twenty-two days. Every day is dedicated to one of the 22 that was killed by the mortar. This is all fact. Enter Steve Galloway. This young author takes this story and does not necessarily spin it, in as much as he creates a perfect background for it. In his version of Sarajevo, he brings the reader into a world that few of us will ever experience. He builds a perfect world of rubble one dilapidated and shelled-out building at a time. Then he creates fictitious people to populate his vision. These are not military commandos performing feats of courage; these people are not villains and heroes that fight; the people within this story are ordinary people: an old woman, an exhausted man, a young woman who knows only the truth when she squeezes the trigger of her rifle, and a young man that wants to be courageous, but knows that courage is only a means to immediate death. These people are not selfish. They are not numb to what is happening in their city. They have become shells of themselves, like the destroyed buildings that once harbored commerce or residential life. The story follows these people through an average day of what they could be expected to experience. For some, the day involves getting water from a well. For others, the action of the day follows them to the market, where they hope to get any type of bread, fresh or otherwise. Some of these characters have to run a gauntlet of enemy soldiers firing upon them. Some of them have to make hard decisions of helping thy neighbor, or helping only thyself. The other main character is the female sniper that is pulled from her normal duties, and given the assignment of protecting the cellist. (<---B>This may or may not be fact.</---B>) At first, she argues against such a colossal task. <---C>The cellist</---C> has become something of a national figure now. The music that spews forth from his instrument is more devastating to the surrounding soldiers than bombs or missiles or bullets. For this music is hope. And hope is not what the conquerors want to face. They want to face scared men and women, trembling children. Reluctantly, she accepts this assignment. For the most part, she listens to him play, thinks about her own personal history, and wonders if there will ever be a day that all of this can be forgotten. (I will spare any more details for fear of giving a crucial sequence of events away.) Now, why did this story move me to tears? The answer may not be as simple as I once thought. I have never seen war. I hope to never see war. In all the accounts of war that I have read and heard firsthand from my father and brothers, not once was I ever moved to a state of sadness as I was upon completion of this book. When I finished reading this, I sat in my chair and thought about the man getting water from a well. He once had a life that was drastically different than the one he now lived. And then I thought about the old woman and wondered if she ever thought she would experience such cruelty in her lifetime. Then I thought about how this story, true events with an embellished backdrop, probably happened in some variant form. I thought about the places in the world that have escalating violence, and wondered if I will ever see it come to my country. I thought about history and the way it treats its victims. Then I thought about the cellist. I thought about his actions, his courage, his resolve to keep playing until he had honored each and every one of the 22 that were killed. And then I cried. Because I knew that I could never be that brave. VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED ...more Recently, I\u2019ve been bemused by some ongoing commotion in my workplace over a draft blowing through some glass doors. Perhaps it\u2019s because I just finished <+++>The Cellist of Sarajevo</+++> last night, but the office hubbub no longer amuses me and I think this is partly why books such as this one are fundamental. There are entirely far too many comfortable, middle-class people in their warm, dry cubicles complaining about things that don\u2019t matter. These people will never know true hardship; their cities wil Recently, I\u2019ve been bemused by some ongoing commotion in my workplace over a draft blowing through some glass doors. Perhaps it\u2019s because I just finished <+++>The Cellist of Sarajevo</+++> last night, but the office hubbub no longer amuses me and I think this is partly why books such as this one are fundamental. There are entirely far too many comfortable, middle-class people in their warm, dry cubicles complaining about things that don\u2019t matter. These people will never know true hardship; their cities will never burn to the ground. They\u2019ll never be without running water or food and though they whine about ice on the roads on their way to work, they\u2019ll never know the horror of being shelled in the street, or watch their neighbor shot in the head trying to cross the road. If only the people who truly need to read books like this would, for once, read books like this. <---A>Steven Galloway</---A> isn\u2019t Bosnian, or a journalist, and he didn\u2019t survive the siege of Sarajevo. Yet, his book was written with great lucidity. The prose is sparse and contains a quiet tension that mimics what the three (fictional) citizens in the novel are all dealing with. There\u2019s Arrow, a female sniper caught up in a soldier\u2019s world; Dragan, an elderly man trapped in the streets on his way to work; and Kenan, a young father facing death every few days to get clean water for his family. Kenan struck me the most. He wasn\u2019t brave and he didn\u2019t transform. He was just a terrified, ordinary man and made me wonder if most of us would remain terrified and ordinary under such circumstances. This isn\u2019t the first book I\u2019ve read about Bosnia and it may not even be the best I\u2019ve read, but today, right now, it haunts me. ...more I was skeptical of a book written about Sarajevo by someone who neither lived through the seige nor who is a Bosnian, but I was wrong. The book is a lyrical song to a city l love very much. Clearly, the author has done enormous research and spent time in the city with Sarajevans. All that aside, what I love about this book is the deep empathy with the characters and with the city. Something about living in these unspeakable conditions is understood by the writer and rendered here with beauty and I was skeptical of a book written about Sarajevo by someone who neither lived through the seige nor who is a Bosnian, but I was wrong. The book is a lyrical song to a city l love very much. Clearly, the author has done enormous research and spent time in the city with Sarajevans. All that aside, what I love about this book is the deep empathy with the characters and with the city. Something about living in these unspeakable conditions is understood by the writer and rendered here with beauty and remarkable empathy. I plan to return to this book again. ...more The Cellist of Sarajevo has received good reviews and on the surface has a lot going for it. It's well written, convincing in its detail and doesn't waste words. Three characters struggle to get by in besieged Sarajevo. Kenan walks off to get water for his family and neighbours; Dragan to get bread. The third, Arrow, is a female sniper charged with protecting the cellist, who for twenty-two days will play in the Markale marketplace to commemorate the victims of a mortar attack. The triple, parall The Cellist of Sarajevo has received good reviews and on the surface has a lot going for it. It's well written, convincing in its detail and doesn't waste words. Three characters struggle to get by in besieged Sarajevo. Kenan walks off to get water for his family and neighbours; Dragan to get bread. The third, Arrow, is a female sniper charged with protecting the cellist, who for twenty-two days will play in the Markale marketplace to commemorate the victims of a mortar attack. The triple, parallel narrative struction Galloway uses is a staple of contemporary fiction; five minutes in your local bookstore will suffice to find a novel featuring three unrelated characters whose stories are drawn together by some central event or symbol. That's fine, but the problem is the way it can suggest we have a false solidarity, as the three stories all arrive at the same conclusion. When that happens, we arrive not at some kind of truth but at a literary contrivance. This is where The Cellist of Sarajevo goes off the rails. When you step back and look at it from a critical distance, the novel becomes irritatingly contrived. This is most evident in the story of Arrow, the female sniper. The contrivance appears in the timeline: while Dragan's and Kenan's stories cover a single day, Arrow's stretches over several days, but is presented in parallel. Her character, too, is contrived. While Kenan and Dragan are convincingly everyman, Arrow is exceptional. She's not only an exceptionally skilled sniper, but she sets her own rules, choosing her own missions and working outside the normal chain of command. There is no real tragedy in Galloway's Sarajevo. People die, to be sure, but each of the three characters emerges clean and morally unscathed, overcomes his (or her) flaws and becomes a better human being. There is no sense that wars call on people to do terrible things; there is no moral ambiguity. There is no sense that the most difficult question for Sarajevans is not how they will survive the war, but how they will live with themselves and their neighbours in the aftermath. Instead, the novel offers simplistic platitudes: killing people is wrong, and art will heal our wounded humanity. Notably, the real-world cellist whom Galloway used to unify his novel is less concerned with art than with cold, hard cash, and as soon as the novel hit the best-seller list he demanded some. This alone should suggest there's something awry with this novel's vision. ...more During the Siege of Sarajevo in 1992, twenty-two people were killed by mortar fire while waiting in line to buy bread. A local Cellist commemorated them by playing his cello at 4 pm every day for twenty-two days on the site of the killings. This story is told through the eyes of three extraordinary people: a man who spends most of each day walking across the city to get water for his family and an ungrateful neighbor; another man who walks to his job at the bakery while dodging sniper bullets fr During the Siege of Sarajevo in 1992, twenty-two people were killed by mortar fire while waiting in line to buy bread. A local Cellist commemorated them by playing his cello at 4 pm every day for twenty-two days on the site of the killings. This story is told through the eyes of three extraordinary people: a man who spends most of each day walking across the city to get water for his family and an ungrateful neighbor; another man who walks to his job at the bakery while dodging sniper bullets from the surrounding hills; and my favorite character Arrow, a young woman assassin-with-a-conscience who is assigned to keep the Cellist safe from sniper fire. This is just one month out of a war that lasted for years. The author has done an admirable job of depicting war through the civilians who were forced to think about their own courage or lack thereof and about what ultimately defines them, who only wished for peace, running water, and electricity. Those of us who live free cannot begin to imagine. ...more Opening line: \u201cIt screamed downward, splitting air and sky without effort.\u201d A few years ago while I was travelling in Europe I met a guy from Sarajevo and we became friends. At one point he asked me if I knew anything about what had happened in his country. I replied that I knew very little, only what I'd seen on the news. Sasha laughed and never said another word on the subject, which at the time I found strange. Now I know why, what could he possibly say that I'd understand? This is a beautiful Opening line: \u201cIt screamed downward, splitting air and sky without effort.\u201d A few years ago while I was travelling in Europe I met a guy from Sarajevo and we became friends. At one point he asked me if I knew anything about what had happened in his country. I replied that I knew very little, only what I'd seen on the news. Sasha laughed and never said another word on the subject, which at the time I found strange. Now I know why, what could he possibly say that I'd understand? This is a beautifully written, haunting and thought provoking story that I only wish I could say I liked more. Because it is so well done I also found it painful to read, depressing, absolutely futile and leaving me feeling angry at the whole world. Which I guess is the point and the ultimate result of any war. I think what surprised me most is how little I knew about this conflict especially when you consider that it happened between 1992 and 1996. I mean that\u2019s not that long ago and it\u2019s not like this happened in a third world country either, this was modern Europe. I just finished reading a book set during the Second World War about the siege of Leningrad and this reads almost the same. How is that possible? How was this even allowed to happen? Inspired by a real event this novel follows the lives of an unnamed cellist along with three others trying to survive in a besieged, war torn Sarajevo. It begins in the midst of a country gone mad, a mortar attack has just killed 22 people waiting in line to buy bread. Our cellist decides that to honour the dead for the next 22 days he will play at the point of impact. At 4 o\u2019clock he dons his ragged tuxedo, sits in the bomb crater and plays. This simple courageous act creates a moment of peace and beauty among the rubble it also makes him a target. Meanwhile a female sniper named \u201cArrow\u201d is ordered to keep the cellist alive. Crouched from her perch in a bombed out building she waits for the counter-sniper who has surely been sent to kill him. She remembers back to a time when she went to college and flirted with boys at nightclubs and wonders how her life has became this? The two other characters we follow disturbed me the most; An elderly baker on his way to work on his day off to get his daily ration of bread and a father making the long trek to \u201cthe brewery\u201d to collect water for his family. A simple walk through the remains of the city has become a perilous journey. Mortars fall and the \u201cmen on the hill\u201d go about their deadly business. Nobody is safe. Crossing the street had become a game of \u201cSerajavan roulette\u201d as the snipers pick off pedestrians. Should I cross now? Should I walk, run, crouch, crawl, go with a group? How do they decide who to shoot? But you need water and you have to eat. You have to make it across the intersection to keep your family alive. These two men show us the city of Sarajevo as they walk through its remains and it very much becomes a character of its own here. The city shows us beauty and resilience and the men show us bravery, paralysing fear and humanity. ...more My favorite part of this book was the discussion of Sarajevo's role in starting the first World War with an assassination. \"When the world thought of Sarajevo, it was as a place of murder. It isn't clear to him how the world will think of the city now that thousands have been murdered. He suspects that what the world wants most is not to think of it all.\" I was in high school when the siege on Sarajevo began. And honestly, I didn't know, or at least had forgotten, about Sarajevo's role in WWI, be My favorite part of this book was the discussion of Sarajevo's role in starting the first World War with an assassination. \"When the world thought of Sarajevo, it was as a place of murder. It isn't clear to him how the world will think of the city now that thousands have been murdered. He suspects that what the world wants most is not to think of it all.\" I was in high school when the siege on Sarajevo began. And honestly, I didn't know, or at least had forgotten, about Sarajevo's role in WWI, because when I think of Sarajevo, I do think of murder and a time the world didn't want to think about them as it collectively held its breath and waited for the shooting to be over. Just like with Warsaw, I want to think about the rich culture and beauty that was destroyed, but my mind automatically goes to the worst of it. Why is it that it's always the worst moments that defines us? The Cellist of Sarajevo gives us a picture of four people stuck in Sarajevo during the siege. One stuck for hours at an intersection targeted by a sniper as he tries to head to the bakery where he works for a meal. Another risking his life to race through intersections and across bridges to get water for his family, both of them hoping they would not be the ones targeted by snipers. One is a fictional account of the cellist who played out in the open for twenty-two days in honor of twenty-two victims of one attack. And my favorite voice, a female sniper with a sixth sense, trying to understand her hatred and how it differed from the men on the hill killing them. The other voices were just glimpses, but hers we really get inside her head so I could feel for her and root for her. Other than the glimpses in the media of brutality in the streets, this was my first glimpse into the real Sarajevo and the fear of its citizens trapped inside. And it's told beautifully. ...more Feb. 28 update: Since my trip to Whistler, where I had the chance to talk with, and listen to Steven, I have learned that the original cellist and Steven are now on good tems. Apparently, there had been misunderstandings (language barrier could easily play a role!), but now, all is well. :) Below, the review, as previously written: Henceforward, when watching daily news clips from war-torn countries, I will think of the three main characters in this story, and what it must be like to live this real Feb. 28 update: Since my trip to Whistler, where I had the chance to talk with, and listen to Steven, I have learned that the original cellist and Steven are now on good tems. Apparently, there had been misunderstandings (language barrier could easily play a role!), but now, all is well. :) Below, the review, as previously written: Henceforward, when watching daily news clips from war-torn countries, I will think of the three main characters in this story, and what it must be like to live this reality on a day-to-day basis: utterly terrifying. Of course we know this, but we don\u2019t really feel it, we can\u2019t truly empathize with these civilians because one has to really be there to experience the magnitude of living with horror on a daily basis, doing without basics like bread and water. Steven Galloway\u2019s sensitive, tragic, vivid portrayal of these characters living such a life is his gift to the reader. While the cellist, never named, is central to the story, it is not based on the real-life cellist who apparently objects to this book! Arrow, nom de guerre of a female sniper, is asked to protect the cellist from another sniper. She has her principles. She kills soldiers, not civilians, unlike \u201cthe men in the hills.\u201d Even her hatred of the soldiers is re-evaluated as she keeps watch over the cellist. The other two characters, Kenan and Dragon, family men, brave the streets to make trips to fetch water, to make it to the bakery. Their ability to find hope amidst daily life in a senseless war, to retain their sense of humanity in the face of everything that is negative about war, is what this story is really about. Another memorable character, Emina, says: Sarajevo roulette\u2026 So much more complicated than Russian. The voices of Steven Galloway\u2019s characters ring so true, bringing to life the daily terror of life as it must have been during the devastating siege of Sarajevo in the 1990\u2019s. I read this book in one sitting: highly recommended. ...more I remember hearing about this book and sorta deciding I just didn't want to read another book about another war, especially one that didn't really effect me. Then I was on vacation in Punta Cana and had nothing left to read so I decided to check out the book-exchange in the condo complex. It was this or a Harlequin Romance so I grabbed it. This book is Brilliant. Period. It is about the siege of Sarajevo, but really it is about humanity. It is about choosing to survive. It is about surrendering I remember hearing about this book and sorta deciding I just didn't want to read another book about another war, especially one that didn't really effect me. Then I was on vacation in Punta Cana and had nothing left to read so I decided to check out the book-exchange in the condo complex. It was this or a Harlequin Romance so I grabbed it. This book is Brilliant. Period. It is about the siege of Sarajevo, but really it is about humanity. It is about choosing to survive. It is about surrendering or fighting. It is about the defeat and triumph and the will to live. It is about shutting down or reaching out. It is about not going insane when living through insanity. Or maybe going insane to survive insanity. The fact that the author managed to make me understand what 400 other books about war, survival, siege and death did not is a statement to his brilliance. The fact that he did not live this war is astounding. This is a remarkably quiet book for one that takes place on a battlefield. You are in the heads of the characters, in their minds as they make tiny decisions that may or may not mean life or death. The War itself is not the main issue, how each person chooses to survive the war is what we are reading about. This is not necessarily a quick read (it is a short book), I often had to put it down and think about what I had just read, let it sink in, there is just so much wisdom and insight here! The review by TK421 here on GR nails how amazing this book truly is and why it is such an amazing accomplishment. ...more A stark look at three lives affected by the siege on Sarajevo in the 1990's. I liked how Galloway avoided identifiers like \u201cMuslim,\u201d \u201cSerb,\u201d \u201cCroat\u201d and \u201cBosnian,\u201d or any ethnic or religious labels in The Cellist of Sarajevo. The main characters are simply referred to as Sarajevans, their common enemy described only as \u201cthe men on the hills.\u201d There is a good mix of inner and outer demons. I think Galloway did a good job of showing what war does to ordinary citizens. And I liked how Galloway show A stark look at three lives affected by the siege on Sarajevo in the 1990's. I liked how Galloway avoided identifiers like \u201cMuslim,\u201d \u201cSerb,\u201d \u201cCroat\u201d and \u201cBosnian,\u201d or any ethnic or religious labels in The Cellist of Sarajevo. The main characters are simply referred to as Sarajevans, their common enemy described only as \u201cthe men on the hills.\u201d There is a good mix of inner and outer demons. I think Galloway did a good job of showing what war does to ordinary citizens. And I liked how Galloway showed that art is not a luxury or frivolity (hear that education systems of north america?) it is an integral part of what makes us human. I also like that we do not know much about the cellist at all. The cellist's music is the thing that binds people (and the narrative) together, reminds them that they are human not \"ghosts\", and that you still need to live and be civil. ...more A fictional story based on true events... Somewhere in Sarajevo in 1992... 22 people were killed by a mortar bomb while they queued for bread, a cellist witnessed that and decided to play the cello for 22 days in the same spot at the same time, the cellist real name was Vedran Smailovi\u0107. \"Is he playing for the people who died? Or is he playing for the people who haven't?\" This novel is really simple and short, with only three characters: Dragan, Kenan and Arrow... -Dragan a father whose family got t A fictional story based on true events... Somewhere in Sarajevo in 1992... 22 people were killed by a mortar bomb while they queued for bread, a cellist witnessed that and decided to play the cello for 22 days in the same spot at the same time, the cellist real name was Vedran Smailovi\u0107. \"Is he playing for the people who died? Or is he playing for the people who haven't?\" This novel is really simple and short, with only three characters: Dragan, Kenan and Arrow... -Dragan a father whose family got the chance to flee out of Sarajevo and was left alone to deal with the daily struggles of the war. My favorite part of his story was when he met an old friend Emina at a very dangerous crossroad that he has to cross everyday in order to get to work, Emina came to this cross road in order to deliver a medication in hopes to help a patient whom she heard about from the radio. what happened there and what they saw was really touching. -Kenan a family man who's trying to provide for his wife and kids, and his struggles to get WATER not only for his family but for his rude neighbor Mrs. Ristovski as well - and my favorite character Arrow, a female counter-sniper, I have read many novel about wars, but never once it was narrated by a sniper, maybe because whenever we think of snipers we think of the enemy... one thing that actually bothered me was the fact that this novel was published without the permission of Vedran Smailovi\u0107... ...more Today, Europe and the world face a refugee crisis. And a growing number of people raise opposition to accepting them into their countries. I am personally baffled by this inhumane response. It is selfish, fearful, heartless and well, I really can\u2019t come up with one single positive trait to place on such misdirected rhetoric. I would like to say to every one of them, read this book and then tell me that you would not choose to be a refugee rather than live in a war zone or city under siege. Even Today, Europe and the world face a refugee crisis. And a growing number of people raise opposition to accepting them into their countries. I am personally baffled by this inhumane response. It is selfish, fearful, heartless and well, I really can\u2019t come up with one single positive trait to place on such misdirected rhetoric. I would like to say to every one of them, read this book and then tell me that you would not choose to be a refugee rather than live in a war zone or city under siege. Even obtaining water necessary for drinking and cooking could mean death by sniper shot. To say nothing of the dearth of medicine, food, and heat sources. Galloway follows three citizens of Sarajevo as they attempt to survive physically and mentally. The only ray of relief in the lives of the citizens is a cellist who enters the street every afternoon for 22 days to play the \u201cAdagio in G Minor\u201d by Albioni in honor of the 22 people who were killed on that street while standing in line for bread. If you listen to this piece, I guarantee you will have heard it before. It is, perhaps, one of the most moving pieces ever written. Highly recommend this book. It is short, timely and packs a powerful punch. ...more A truly AMAZING, 5 out of 5 stars, book that, simply put, everyone should read. It follows three stories - four, if you include the cellist's - of trying to survive and retain one's humanity (literally, as in being alive and human at the same time) while living in Sarajevo during the 1992-96 siege. The two men's stories (Keenan and Dragan) are particularly poignant and thought provoking: One man, a husband and a father, who is getting water for his family - a death defying act - and the other ma A truly AMAZING, 5 out of 5 stars, book that, simply put, everyone should read. It follows three stories - four, if you include the cellist's - of trying to survive and retain one's humanity (literally, as in being alive and human at the same time) while living in Sarajevo during the 1992-96 siege. The two men's stories (Keenan and Dragan) are particularly poignant and thought provoking: One man, a husband and a father, who is getting water for his family - a death defying act - and the other man who is trying to cross the city to get bread and have a meal. I've never lived in or through any situation even remotely like what is described, but reading this book makes these situations eerily real. The writing is incredible - Mr. Galloway is a genius of just the right phrase without showing off. Reading this book reminds me of looking at a beautiful marble sculpture where just exactly just the right amount - no more, no less - has been chipped away. In this case, just the right number of words and the exact choices of words laid in a row in just the right order. Truly a work of art, while being very human and accessible at the same time. It's been a long time since I felt compelled to re-read a book - I read this book for the first time last Spring and again this week. As with any classic piece of literature, it was that much better the second time around, and for this read-through I savored the words, language, phrasing, and sentences since I didn't feel compelled to race ahead to find out what happens. Note one thing while reading this book: The author never uses words like \"Christian,\" \"Muslim,\" \"Serb,\" \"Croat,\" \"Bosnian,\" and others. This is a book about what people are capable of doing to other people, and which, in this instance, happened to occur in and to Sarajevo. What happened to the city of Sarajevo happened for FOUR YEARS a mere decade-plus ago. Shame on us! To those who like this book, I recommend the essays (and other works) of Slavenka Drakulic; also Alex Dragnich's \"Serbs and Croats; The Struggle in Yugoslavia.\" Also, Geraldine Brooks's recent novel, \"People of the Book.\" Scott Simon of NPR fame has also written \"Pretty Birds,\" a novel that also takes place in Sarajevo during the siege (the jacket cover notes that Simon covered the siege as a journalist), but I haven't read it yet and can't recommend it either way. ...more This book is raw and powerful. Written in the present tense, you are with the characters on the streets of Sarajevo during the siege of 1992-1995. It isn't fun being there, but it is compelling. The cellist plays for 22 days in the crater from a shell that killed 22 people standing in line for bread. Why? The author has taken a dark event in human history and crafted a story whose theme transcends that event and is relevant to each life in every situation: Each life is important, that self respec This book is raw and powerful. Written in the present tense, you are with the characters on the streets of Sarajevo during the siege of 1992-1995. It isn't fun being there, but it is compelling. The cellist plays for 22 days in the crater from a shell that killed 22 people standing in line for bread. Why? The author has taken a dark event in human history and crafted a story whose theme transcends that event and is relevant to each life in every situation: Each life is important, that self respect and self reliance are the right and duty of each of us, just as it is our right and duty to have and show respect for others. ...more This book brought some memories to me. Not of war because I've never lived in these circumstances, but more of memories of my dad. My dad isn't dead or anything just felt he was similar to Kenan. I've seen my dad broken like Kenan was, due to not having money. He\u2019d do whatever it took to feed us like Kenan did. This book takes place in a city named Sarajevo during the Siege of Sarajevo. The opening scene is of a bomb shelling a group of 22 people. It really paints a strong picture on how quick de This book brought some memories to me. Not of war because I've never lived in these circumstances, but more of memories of my dad. My dad isn't dead or anything just felt he was similar to Kenan. I've seen my dad broken like Kenan was, due to not having money. He\u2019d do whatever it took to feed us like Kenan did. This book takes place in a city named Sarajevo during the Siege of Sarajevo. The opening scene is of a bomb shelling a group of 22 people. It really paints a strong picture on how quick death happens. How unaware the people are as the bomb splits the air\u2026 and boom dead. The cellist is unaware of his job and or task that he will take on. He will come to start playing for the ones who died, but that's not all. He becomes more than a guy that plays for the dead, but more of a symbol of hope or even sometimes a moment of nostalgia as people gather to hear him play. This story is broken up into three different points of view. One I have already mentioned and that is of Kenan and the other two are Dragan and Arrow. Arrow is more of a heroine character. A very strong powerful women whose real name is Alisa. She is an elite sniper in the defense team. Able to do what a lot can\u2019t. I find her character to be pretty bad ass as she\u2019s still a sweet girl from her past life dying to a tougher heartless women. She lets her mind pick itself apart with what this all means. She thinks why does she hate them? What if they are stopping them from something great and many more thoughts. She constantly fights for maybe a non-existing answer. Dragan is an older man. Age around somewhere of 50. His life to me is really sad and lonely. His family left the city. I find his story to be less interesting but they still have their moments. His story has gruesome moments that I can\u2019t really say. He often fantasizes about being free with his family but that quickly fades when coming to the reality that only the rich have that ability. Now a character I felt a lot closer to, Kenan. When we are introduced to him he breaks down crying by his door by fear of being in the war. By the fear of leaving his house for water for his family because he can die. He hides his fear from his family like my father hiding his sadness. Kenan did all he could for his family as well as my father. The scenery of his house and being poor really hit me. I grew up pretty poor, like no food getting evicted poor. Kenan walked several miles for water for his family and my dad rode a bike several miles to get a shitty paycheck that was hardly enough to buy enough food for one meal a day. He had to ask friends for money so my sister and I can have at least 2 new outfits for school. My dad was broken and looked down upon. The man I looked up to was looked down upon. Treated like shit for trying. Sorry I get off topic a bit, but Kenan's story hit me hard as I lived in a similar situation. Overall this a beautifully written book and highly recommend it. It\u2019s a very easy read. I was reading a page a minute. I\u2019m not the biggest fan of war books but this one is truly great. ...more Well, this book divided the Hallam Cricket Club book club. I liked it very much, but the general feeling wasn't at all positive. I thought it convincingly explored the daily horrors of living in the siege, and the sense of bewilderment that that haracters felt. The three characters whose perspectives are given in detail are all plausible, and surviving as best they can - there is real suspense in places, particularly in the struggle to cross the road with the snipers firing down on them. I think Well, this book divided the Hallam Cricket Club book club. I liked it very much, but the general feeling wasn't at all positive. I thought it convincingly explored the daily horrors of living in the siege, and the sense of bewilderment that that haracters felt. The three characters whose perspectives are given in detail are all plausible, and surviving as best they can - there is real suspense in places, particularly in the struggle to cross the road with the snipers firing down on them. I think that those who didn't like it would have valued a bit more balance in the narrative, with some exploration of the perspective of the besiegers. I thoughtthis was a strength though - there was no attempt at analysis, and minimal value judgements - this is a book about struggle. Perhaps more might have been made about the cellist who played to commemorate the deaths from a mortar shell aimed at a busv market. He was a backdrop, although providing a powerful context for Arrow's story. What did I learn? Well, I remebr the news of the mortar shell on the market, and hearing from Sarajevo on the news during the siege, but I had no real idea of the conditions in the city, and this book was convincing on that. Neither did I have an idea about the brutality of the politics within the city, but I suppose on reflection it is not surprising.It is extraordinary that this could have happened in Europe, and very disappointing for me to discover my knowledge of it was so poor. ...more In 1992, twenty-two people were killed by mortar shells as they stood in a bread line in a town square during the Siege of Sarajevo. In honor of the deceased, a local cellist who had witnessed the attack played Albinoni's Adagio in G Minor at the site daily for twenty-two days. It is a bit of beauty at a scene of devastation. This fictional book is inspired by this true event in Sarajevo. The book also tells the stories of three other characters trying to survive the devastation. Sarajevo is surr In 1992, twenty-two people were killed by mortar shells as they stood in a bread line in a town square during the Siege of Sarajevo. In honor of the deceased, a local cellist who had witnessed the attack played Albinoni's Adagio in G Minor at the site daily for twenty-two days. It is a bit of beauty at a scene of devastation. This fictional book is inspired by this true event in Sarajevo. The book also tells the stories of three other characters trying to survive the devastation. Sarajevo is surrounded by hills, and the Serb soldiers shell the homes below, and target the civilians as they move through the city. Every four days, Kenan risks his life trying to cross the bridges to fill containers with spring water for his family and an elderly neighbor. Dragan must travel dangerous roads to get to the bakery to work and bring bread home to feed his sister's family. Both men were witnesses to the deaths of others who got picked off by the soldiers. Arrow, a female expert sniper from Sarajevo, has the task of protecting the cellist from an enemy sniper attack. She is trying to hold on to her human goodness while defending her city. This moving story shows the senselessness of war, and the effect that violence, fear, and destruction has on each of the characters. \"The Cellist of Sarajevo\" is the third novel of Steven Galloway, a Canadian author from British Columbia. ...more 3.5 stars - It was really good. I typically really enjoy fiction based on true events and this one was no exception. When I was a young and ignorant teenager I worked with a few Bosnian immigrants that had fled their country due to all of the fighting, but I didn't really get it then and American news certainly was not covering it as much as they were the celebrity flavor of the month. I definitely was not aware that at the time, the Siege of Sarajevo was the longest city siege in the history of 3.5 stars - It was really good. I typically really enjoy fiction based on true events and this one was no exception. When I was a young and ignorant teenager I worked with a few Bosnian immigrants that had fled their country due to all of the fighting, but I didn't really get it then and American news certainly was not covering it as much as they were the celebrity flavor of the month. I definitely was not aware that at the time, the Siege of Sarajevo was the longest city siege in the history of modern warfare, lasting almost four years. This well written novel helps to visualize and understand what everyday citizens go through when a country or city is ravaged by war. I'd love to be able to talk to my past co-workers today and hear their stories. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: He doesn't know what made her the way she is, but something has killed her, he can see now that she is a ghost as well. She has been a ghost for a long time. And to be a ghost while you're still alive is the worst thing he can imagine. First Sentence: It screamed downward, splitting air and sky without effort. ...more FINISHED FIRST TIME NOV 1 2008 Everyone: read this book. I feel so blessed and sick at the same time. Blessed for where I live. Sick for the ignorance that's been mine. How many people are suffering every day while I go about my life? As a parent I was struck by the idea of having to sacrifice your life just so that your child could have water. It's humbling. This is one of the best books that I have read. My next step is to learn more about the conflict in Sarajevo. SPOILER HERE ----> How amaz FINISHED FIRST TIME NOV 1 2008 Everyone: read this book. I feel so blessed and sick at the same time. Blessed for where I live. Sick for the ignorance that's been mine. How many people are suffering every day while I go about my life? As a parent I was struck by the idea of having to sacrifice your life just so that your child could have water. It's humbling. This is one of the best books that I have read. My next step is to learn more about the conflict in Sarajevo. SPOILER HERE ----> How amazing is the humanity in each person. How amazing the stories of people who rise above. How amazing was this perfect book? READING AGAIN JULY 2016 ...more My favourite thing about historical fiction is learning something of history that I didn't know much about before. In this case, it was the Siege of Sarajevo. Of course, on May 2, 1992, when the Serbs blockaded the city, I was only 10 years old, so I'll give myself a pass on not keeping up with international affairs at the time. This book is a beautifully written account of three people struggling to hold on to their humanity in a city under siege. Books about music, about people hearing music, about music stopping time I have a love/hate relationship with reading them, I want to listen to them, hear the music myself -RIGHT NOW. I am too impatient or too lazy or both to read well about music. I should have remembered this about myself before opening this book. Those of us who who haven't had our listening interrupted by shelling thankfully can't truly imagine the sound of music played in those circumstances. Books about the sounds of war - Books about music, about people hearing music, about music stopping time I have a love/hate relationship with reading them, I want to listen to them, hear the music myself -RIGHT NOW. I am too impatient or too lazy or both to read well about music. I should have remembered this about myself before opening this book. Those of us who who haven't had our listening interrupted by shelling thankfully can't truly imagine the sound of music played in those circumstances. Books about the sounds of war - those who have tried to listen or sleep during sounds of violence want to put those memories far behind them, forever. Sarajevo -this book, nothing, will ever explain to me how it all happened and kept happening a mere eight years after the Winter Games? I want to ask the City, \"How you did this to yourself?\" \"How did it happen to you\"? But Sarajevo is still (maybe forever) climbing out from under the horrors of the siege. Sarajevo maybe can't understand or tell the truth about itself yet, maybe never? I wished there was an audio version of The Cellist of Sarajevo with Vedran Smailovic interviewed and playing at least 10% of the time. Echoes from the Square by Elizabeth Wellburn is that book and in this beautifully produced recorded reading video you can hear Vedran Smailovic's music and imagine what it might have been like for a child to meet Vedran Smailovic and talk with him about his playing during the siege. Money Talks: Fictionalizing a contemporary situation peopled with living human beings, opens a lot of economic questions. I turned away from The Cellist to internet searches, music listening, and even reading other reviews time and again before I'd finished the story in an effort to understand more about Vedran Smailovic and whether where the limelight fell from Galloway's book brought any good fortune to him? The economics of this book really nagged at me. My conscience told me that any income generated from me turning the page was not heading in the musician or Sarajevo's direction. Novel length journalistic non-fiction doesn't even ruffle my feathers. For example, I suppose that writing Ballad of the Whiskey Robber must have cost Julian Rubinstein quite a bit to research compared to what it cost to write The Cellist . Maybe as a reader that's none of my business anyway? But, I have no doubt that Attila Ambrus will capitalize however he can on the 15 min of fame Rubinstein brings his way. Smailovic, on the other hand, the fictionalized Smailovic bothered me. When the re-imagined Smailovic dances for the crowd who's cup SHOULD the reader throw their money into? The royalties from The Cellist are no doubt rightly Steven Galloway 's but I found myself wondering anyway, should I buy a Smailovic album ? Should the book have come with one, even if only a track of the Adagio? If the real life Smailovic's cup were sitting on the street alongside Galloway's would I throw the same amount in each or would I throw more in Smailovic's? Would he tip it out onto the street and walk away? Take it to Ireland? Does it make any difference in the end? I don't know, but I could listen to him play the Adagio over and over and that is worth paying for. ...more The opening chapter of this novel was incredibly written, gut-wrenching and sadly I think the rest of the novel failed to live up to that standard. What I felt this really needed was a little bit of context. There was one scene in the novel where a Western TV cameraman is quickly setting up equipment to get a shot of the locals running away from sniper fire. One of the characters, Dragan, is overcome with a desire to remove a dead body from view of the cameraman, risking his life to prevent the The opening chapter of this novel was incredibly written, gut-wrenching and sadly I think the rest of the novel failed to live up to that standard. What I felt this really needed was a little bit of context. There was one scene in the novel where a Western TV cameraman is quickly setting up equipment to get a shot of the locals running away from sniper fire. One of the characters, Dragan, is overcome with a desire to remove a dead body from view of the cameraman, risking his life to prevent the dead man from becoming just another nameless victim in the news. Dragan is aware that every running person, every one of the injured and the dying, are so much more than their current suffering. They are complex individuals, with lives and meanings that have been torn away from them by war. Unfortunately, without the much needed context, I don't see how Galloway was much better than the cameraman. Sure, the novel demonstrates the cruel unfairness of war and the plight of ordinary people, their current suffering, but everything else was missing. Firstly I wanted to know who these characters were, what were their lives like before the siege began, because people are so much more than what war turns them in to. Secondly, there needed to be some historical context, some meaning behind why the city is in this state. The enemy, the reason the people are fighting for their lives, is referred to time and time again as simply the \"the men on the hill\" and I think this simplifies the situation too much. The sense of time and place, which I think is vital for good historical fiction, simply wasn't there. The novel felt much more like a writer's creative interpretation of the suffering in what could be any war, not the reality of what happened specifically in Sarajevo. A short novel which I think should have either been a short story (or more than one) or should have been expanded, including more history and authenticity, which would have made it a whole lot more meaningful. ...more I'm three-quarters of the way through this powerful novel that follows the lives of four individuals trapped in the daily horrifying grip of war in Sarajevo. What's luminous and gripping about it is how it is the first time I've read something about a war that literally makes me feel the tension/persistence/wrestling with how to be a civilized human in the middle of chaos. Heartbreaking. Makes me think of e.e.cummings line \"pity this busy monster, manunkind...\" Well worth the (quick) read. The p I'm three-quarters of the way through this powerful novel that follows the lives of four individuals trapped in the daily horrifying grip of war in Sarajevo. What's luminous and gripping about it is how it is the first time I've read something about a war that literally makes me feel the tension/persistence/wrestling with how to be a civilized human in the middle of chaos. Heartbreaking. Makes me think of e.e.cummings line \"pity this busy monster, manunkind...\" Well worth the (quick) read. The prose is spare and elegant. ...more At 4 o'clock in the afternoon on May 27, 1992, during the siege of Sarajevo , a group of people waiting in line to buy bread were struck by mortar shells. 22 of those people were killed and many more wounded. For the next 22 days Vedran Smailovic , a renowned local cellist played Albinoni's Adagio at the site in honor of the dead, in spite of the snipers and death all around him. This story was inspired by the cellist, but the author makes it clear that it is not based on the real Smailovic, jus At 4 o'clock in the afternoon on May 27, 1992, during the siege of Sarajevo , a group of people waiting in line to buy bread were struck by mortar shells. 22 of those people were killed and many more wounded. For the next 22 days Vedran Smailovic , a renowned local cellist played Albinoni's Adagio at the site in honor of the dead, in spite of the snipers and death all around him. This story was inspired by the cellist, but the author makes it clear that it is not based on the real Smailovic, just inspired by him. ( I mention that because apparently, there was a bit of a riff between the cellist and the author- which I think has since been cleared up). The book doesn't really get into the story of the cellist, it is more about other people reacting to him. It also follows the lives of three people and their daily struggles - both physical and emotional - in dealing with what is going on around them. It is an intense and powerful story. It explores how war can change one's definition of humanity and how daily rituals during a time of war, become their own form of resistance . It also shows us the power of music. It is a sad story, and well written, but I didn't cry while reading it. Here is an excerpt from the story that explains exactly how the story effected me : \"...It makes her sad. A heavy, slow kind of sad, the sort of thing that does not bring you to tears but makes you feel like crying. It is, she thinks, the worst feeling there could be. \" When I was done reading the book, it made me think of how quickly we forget about wars and crisis happening all over the world once they are no longer in the news. I don't think we need to dwell on such things, but I do think its important , in honor of the dead, to remember. I am thankful for books like these for helping us remember. Another thing that happened when I finished the book - I took out my iPod , in which I have Albinoni's Adagio, and I played it. I have always found this piece to be one of the most moving pieces of music ever written, but it had been a while since I had listened to it. It was only then that the tears came. They came in appreciation for my life - for being able to do simple things like run errands without putting my life in danger. They also came as a reminder that so many people every day , during that siege and still today all over the world, have to live their lives in such a way that the basic daily rituals are life threatening. There are so many aspects of humanity that I will never quite understand. There are so many injustices that we can never do anything about. When you're having a bad day, its helpful to remember that what we , in the free world, consider a bad day is so trivial . ...more At one point in this novel a cameraman sets up on a busy intersection, hoping to capture footage of locals running under sniper-fire. One of the novel's characters bemoans this. To him Sarajevo is so much more than this moment. It's a city of individuals with complex lives that crave meaning. Behind that footage, each person running has a story that deserves to be told. But to me, Steven Galloway is that cameraman. The stories of his three main characters develop with strong matter of factness; At one point in this novel a cameraman sets up on a busy intersection, hoping to capture footage of locals running under sniper-fire. One of the novel's characters bemoans this. To him Sarajevo is so much more than this moment. It's a city of individuals with complex lives that crave meaning. Behind that footage, each person running has a story that deserves to be told. But to me, Steven Galloway is that cameraman. The stories of his three main characters develop with strong matter of factness; their actions putting them in a near constant line of fire. The aim might be to ratchet up the tension and suspense, but the resulting characters just don't ring true. His research seems to stretch little beyond an A to Z of the city and the viewing of a few news reports from the early 90s. While this is a story that deserves to be told, it's one which comes with a rich interwoven past. And like everything in life, there are also subtle, low key moments. Moments that are as much a part of the story as gunshots and motor fire. Galloway captures little of this. For those that have limited knowledge of this stage in Sarajevo's history, this book is an eye opener. But then so is the BBC news archive footage that you can find online here . I've walked the streets of Sarajevo and climbed the hills that surround it. It's a beautiful city. And after reading some of the history I still struggle to see the complete picture of the how and the why - a city on the edge of the European Union that remained under siege for three years. This book added nothing to that. But it was also averagely written. With both those things in mind, I can't give it more than two stars. ...more A beautifully rendered, harrowing account of one month during the four-year long siege of Sarajevo (1992-96). It is remarkable that in such a slim work the characters could be so completely drawn and with such dignity. I noted in the author's acknowledgments those he thanked for helping him think like a Sarajevan and was touched that he allowed real voices to inform his work and speak through his characters. These voices of the four characters, whose survival in a destroyed city is linked by the A beautifully rendered, harrowing account of one month during the four-year long siege of Sarajevo (1992-96). It is remarkable that in such a slim work the characters could be so completely drawn and with such dignity. I noted in the author's acknowledgments those he thanked for helping him think like a Sarajevan and was touched that he allowed real voices to inform his work and speak through his characters. These voices of the four characters, whose survival in a destroyed city is linked by the strings of a cello, resonate deeply in me. The four Sarajevans recall the beauty of their city and the sweet simplicity of their former lives in such a detached way, as if calling up scenes of a cherished film. Galloway makes room for incidental characters whose brief appearance add to the depth of narrative and elaborate on the horrors of war. I will be forever haunted by the image of the man who survived Nazi concentration camps and believed the world would never again allow genocide choosing suicide over being an innocent at war. As I type this review, I am hearing news that Radovan Karadizc failed to show for his trial today at The Hague. Stories of lives destroyed by this war no longer make the headlines, only its doomed celebrities. It is works like Galloway's that keep the voices of the survivors and of the lost in our hearts and intellect. If only poets ran the world instead of politician... ...more The Cellist of Sarajevo is a fictionalized war-novel of the Gulf War (and in between, the Bosnian War). However, the author emphasizes the event happened particularly in Sarajevo, The Siege of Sarajevo . It was the longest siege of a capital city in the history of modern warfare [Connelly, Charlie (2006)]. After being initially besieged by the forces of the Yugoslav People's Army, Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was then besieged by the Army of Republika Srpska from 5 April 1992 The Cellist of Sarajevo is a fictionalized war-novel of the Gulf War (and in between, the Bosnian War). However, the author emphasizes the event happened particularly in Sarajevo, The Siege of Sarajevo . It was the longest siege of a capital city in the history of modern warfare [Connelly, Charlie (2006)]. After being initially besieged by the forces of the Yugoslav People's Army, Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was then besieged by the Army of Republika Srpska from 5 April 1992 to 29 February 1996 during the Bosnian War. The aftermath of the siege resulted to a large number of Sarajevans killed or wounded and establishments ruined or destroyed. This astonishing war-novel with universal significance tells the story of three people trying to survive in a city under the influence of a war with the extreme fear of death, and of the sorrowing cellist who plays undaunted in the midst of war. You will learn fear and love in this novel. Especially from the characters. I loved the characters. They showed how the city of Sarajevo to us as they walk through its remains and the city became a character itself. The city shows us beauty and spirit and the men show us bravery, paralyzing terror and humanity. P.S: Do not mistake this book with the young-adult war novels such as the Book Thief and The Diary of a Young Girl. ...more Every day the Sarajevo he thinks he remembers slips away from him a little at a time, like water cupped in the palms of his hands, and when it's gone he wonders what will be left. He isn't sure what it will be like to live without remembering how life used to be, what it was like to live in a beautiful city. Bosnia Rwanda Armenia The Holocaust Darfur Moments in time that break the heart and shame the soul. She knows that twenty-two people died here and a multitude were injured, will not walk or see o Every day the Sarajevo he thinks he remembers slips away from him a little at a time, like water cupped in the palms of his hands, and when it's gone he wonders what will be left. He isn't sure what it will be like to live without remembering how life used to be, what it was like to live in a beautiful city. Bosnia Rwanda Armenia The Holocaust Darfur Moments in time that break the heart and shame the soul. She knows that twenty-two people died here and a multitude were injured, will not walk or see or touch again. Because they tried to buy bread. A small decision. Nothing to think about. You're hungry, and come to this place where maybe they will have some bread to buy. Of all the places to go, you come here. Of all the days to come, a particular one chooses you. At four o'clock in the afternoon. It's just something you do because life is a series of tiny, unavoidable decisions. And then some men on the hills send a bomb through the air to kill you. For them, it was one more bomb in a day of any. Not notable at all. ...This is how she now believes life happens. One small thing at a time. A series of inconsequential junctions, any or none of which can lead to salvation or disaster. There are no grand moments where a person does or does not perform the act that defines their humanity. There are only moments that appear, briefly, to be that way. 8/10 ...more This is a gorgeous, haunting book set in war torn Sarajevo in the mid 1990s, as the title implies. It's about so many things - the will to survive, making choices, and determining who you are underneath the trappings of civility, especially as they are stripped away with violence. Its about finding pleasure in small luxuries such as having electricity or seeing your children smile. Its about deciding what is moral. One line I think sums my feelings about this book rather nicely - its from later This is a gorgeous, haunting book set in war torn Sarajevo in the mid 1990s, as the title implies. It's about so many things - the will to survive, making choices, and determining who you are underneath the trappings of civility, especially as they are stripped away with violence. Its about finding pleasure in small luxuries such as having electricity or seeing your children smile. Its about deciding what is moral. One line I think sums my feelings about this book rather nicely - its from later in the book when a character decides he cannot leave a stranger lying in the street to be filmed by a cameraman for foreign tv... \"I will not live in a city where dead bodies lie abandoned in the streets, and you will not tell the world that I do.\" ...more My son has to read this for freshman English, so I decided to read along with him. I can see why his teacher chose this. Themes, symbols, motifs all rise to the surface fairly obviously-- which I assume will make for good discussion and critical reading. It was a bit obvious for my reading taste, but I've read almost nothing from the Bosnian War setting, so I found the context compelling.", "Title": "The Cellist of Sarajevo"},
