{"Comments": "You all obviously know how much I love <---A>Sophie Kinsella</---A>, so I'll go straight into my thoughts about this book! Although there was a good romance in this book, it wasn't the main focus of the book. Instead, this novel put most of it's emphasis on family and friendship and I really liked that! <---C>Sadie</---C> definitely got on my nerves a lot, mostly because I was listening to this as an audio book and the narrator made her voice especially annoying while saying her lines. However, she had a surprising amoun You all obviously know how much I love Sophie Kinsella, so I'll go straight into my thoughts about this book! Although there was a good romance in this book, it wasn't the main focus of the book. Instead, this novel put most of it's emphasis on family and friendship and I really liked that! Sadie definitely got on my nerves a lot, mostly because I was listening to this as an audio book and the narrator made her voice especially annoying while saying her lines. However, she had a surprising amount of character development keeping in mind that she was the GHOST of a 105 year old woman. I really enjoyed how this was a mystery as well, there was so much going on that you almost forgot about one part of the story when it showed up again! The one critique I have, though, is how long this book was. I felt like there were too many dead ends while trying to find that one necklace and it was starting to get a little repetitive. I think it could have wrapped up a little quicker, but it still was a fun read! ...more I had to add a shelf to categorize this book. I got to chapter six before I decided to return it to the library. There were two things I couldn't get past: 1)The character of the ghost, Sadie Lancaster.<---F> She was too obnoxious</---F>. And I realize the point of the character was to annoy the protagonist into action, but I didn't think I could handle one more scene where she harrassed the poor, broken, 27-year-old heroine of which I can very closely relate. Which brings me to my second problem: 2)The main I had to add a shelf to categorize this book. I got to chapter six before I decided to return it to the library. There were two things I couldn't get past: 1)The character of the ghost, Sadie Lancaster. She was too obnoxious. And I realize the point of the character was to annoy the protagonist into action, but I didn't think I could handle one more scene where she harrassed the poor, broken, 27-year-old heroine of which I can very closely relate. Which brings me to my second problem: 2)The main character was in a funk,<---M> struggling through life broke</---M>, unsure of her career, and having a hard time getting over the last boyfriend, coincidentally name \"Josh.\" I knew that to preserve my sanity this was one book I need not finish. I truly believe that life is too short to read books that you don't find enjoyable. That's what school is for. ...more Sophie Kinsella is a guilty pleasure of mine. This book made for a fun and much needed escape for me today. Lara Lington thinks of herself as a fairly hip twenties girl, living in the 21st century. But the last thing she expects at her Great Aunt Sadie\u2019s funeral is for Sadie herself to appear and demand for the whole thing to be stopped. Lara thinks she\u2019s going mad: how on Earth can she hear and see a dead person? It turns out Great Aunt Sadie is actually a ghost and a ghost with a mission: to track down her missing Dragonfly necklace. Sadie eventually manages to convince Lara to help look for the nec Lara Lington thinks of herself as a fairly hip twenties girl, living in the 21st century. But the last thing she expects at her Great Aunt Sadie\u2019s funeral is for Sadie herself to appear and demand for the whole thing to be stopped. Lara thinks she\u2019s going mad: how on Earth can she hear and see a dead person? It turns out Great Aunt Sadie is actually a ghost and a ghost with a mission: to track down her missing Dragonfly necklace. Sadie eventually manages to convince Lara to help look for the necklace. Can they find it, and can Sadie ever rest in peace? I received <+++>Twenties Girl</+++> way back in July just before it was released but never thought of picking it up until now because I was worried I wouldn\u2019t like it. I am in no way inclined to read a ghost story and I\u2019ve never wanted to before. I also wondered exactly how it would work writing a ghost story, would it be a real ghost story or a magical-type ghost story in the vein of Alexandra Potter? I can thankfully reveal that it is a fantastic ghost story with a hint of magic that really sells it. <+++>Twenties Girl</+++> really is an outstanding read. It took me a few pages to get into it and I was worried I wasn\u2019t enoying it, when up popped Sadie and I was glued to the book from then on in. I thought the plot of the missing necklace was well thought out and I enjoyed Lara and Sadie\u2019s search for the aforementioned necklace. I would love to see the Dragonfly necklace in real life, I have to say, as it sounds really beautiful. The whole story is narrated by Lara and is greatly enjoyable, particularly when Sadie comes into the picture and Lara wonders if she\u2019s going bonkers. Not only does Lara have to contend with an at-times-annoying ghost, but her best friend (<---B>and business partner</---B>) has done a bunk and her boyfriend has just dumped her, so you can see why she thinks she\u2019s going mad; the scene in the funeral parlour where Sadie first appears was beyond hilarious. I thought Lara was a lovely character and I enjoyed her interaction with Sadie. I also thought it was hilarious when Lara decided to spy of her ex-boyfriend Josh and she bugged his table \u2013 that had me laughing out loud. Lara was funny, likeable, and yes, she probably was a bit bonkers, but I loved her regardless. For me, the real star of the show, though, was Sadie. I thought Sadie was a fabulous character \u2013 outgoing, talkative but also incredibly nice and rather prone to teenage strops. I enjoyed unravelling the story of Sadie\u2019s life and finding out exactly why the Dragonfly necklace was so precious to her. I didn\u2019t find Sadie\u2019s constant chanting when she wanted attention annoying, I merely found it endearing and, also, quite amusing. She told a great tale about her life and growing up in the Twenties. I thought Sophie Kinsella described the 1920\u2019s fabulously. I could imagine the dresses Sophie described, and the music playing throughout, and I enjoyed learning the 1920\u2019s slang, it all added to the charm of the book and I really couldn\u2019t put it down. I loved everything about the book and once Sadie made her appearance I couldn\u2019t put the book down. There are a few other characters in the book, Ed Harrison being a favourite of mine. I loved how he went along with Lara when she asked him on a date (spurred on by Sadie, of course) and thought Ed made a fantastic male character. I also liked Lara\u2019s family, the Lingtons, and was so so pleased Uncle Bill got his comeuppance. The story really takes a turn halfway through the book and I wanted to race to finish it to find out if all would come well in the end. I have got to say that the ending gave me tears in my eyes. I knew it was going to happen. All through the book I just knew how it was going to end and I still didn\u2019t expect it at all. I didn\u2019t want to leave Sadie and Lara\u2019s world and you have no idea how sad I was to leave it! This really was an outstanding book \u2013 making me laugh, making me cry and giving me an unputdownable read. A truly outstanding novel from Sophie Kinsella, her best to date and truly one of the best books of the year. ...more I loved this book. At first I thought that this is going to be just another Sophie Kinsella book, full of chicklit drama, but it sort of surprised me. There are several Sophie Kinsella trademarks I have noticed in this book: 1. Lara Lington. The heroines in the her books look like they're always helpless at first, they have this problems in their works and in their relationships. But then at the end, these heroines will be very lucky and make a breakthrough in their careers and they would discover I loved this book. At first I thought that this is going to be just another Sophie Kinsella book, full of chicklit drama, but it sort of surprised me. There are several Sophie Kinsella trademarks I have noticed in this book: 1. Lara Lington. The heroines in the her books look like they're always helpless at first, they have this problems in their works and in their relationships. But then at the end, these heroines will be very lucky and make a breakthrough in their careers and they would discover the thing their really good at. 2. The leading man, Ed. I like Sophie Kinsella's leading men.They have this mysterious air around them and they are very sweet. 3. Evil sister, cousin, uncle. In this book, Lara has an evil sister and uncle who seems to be really mean and would do things to make Lara feel as if she's like a poor Cinderella. 4.FUNNY! Yeah! i think most of Kinsella's books are really witty! there are lots of situations in this book where Lara made embarrassing actions. I most of the time, am surprised to hear myself laughing so loud.ROFL! ...more I really, really loved this one! It was over-the-top in an absolutely perfect, hilarious way that made reading it so much fun. I was cheering for Lara the whole time and I loved her interactions with Sadie. ALSO ED HARRISON <3 <3 <3 Sophie Kinsella made me feel like I was visiting with a best friend every time I went on another zany, warmhearted adventure with Becky Bloomwood--and Kinsella herself seemed quite a kindred spirit when my sister and I attended her book talk for \"Shopaholic and Baby\" a few years ago--so I suppose I should not be surprised that Kinsella could make me care so much about the twenty-three year old Flapper ghost of a one-hundred-and-five year old lady who died lonely and came back to \"haunt\" her pres Sophie Kinsella made me feel like I was visiting with a best friend every time I went on another zany, warmhearted adventure with Becky Bloomwood--and Kinsella herself seemed quite a kindred spirit when my sister and I attended her book talk for \"Shopaholic and Baby\" a few years ago--so I suppose I should not be surprised that Kinsella could make me care so much about the twenty-three year old Flapper ghost of a one-hundred-and-five year old lady who died lonely and came back to \"haunt\" her present-day great-niece. But, gosh darn it, Sophie, you made me care SO much! I don't know how you did it, but you did! It was like magic. For the first 1/4 of the book, I thought, \"this is kinda cliche, kinda lame, a bit dull, but, hey, I'll stay with you...\" Lara (modern-day girl) and Sadie ('20s ghost) had the altercations one might expect of such a clash of generations and, um, states of alive-ness. The discord with styles of music, slang, etc. Ho-hum. Yet, somewhere along the way, this transforms into a beautiful, heartfelt relationship, a true friendship. Sadie and Lara deserve one another, both for their bad qualities and their good ones. They help bring out the best in each other. Sadie helps Lara with relationship struggles and career woes, all the while feeling that her own life had been little more than a shell after she lost her own love when she was in her early '20s. But Lara learns that her great-aunt (whom she only visited once while she was alive) was actually a really cool gal with an amazing and inspiring life; and it only remains for her to convince Sadie of this! There is also an interesting little mystery involving Sadie's missing dragonfly necklace, and some suspicious behavior by Lara's mega-rich and successful (and pompous!) Uncle Bill. There is some romance, too (and might I say THANK YOU, Sophie! I liked our handsome and thoughtful gent in this tale so much better than Luke Brandon!) but it's not the driving force of the tale. Rather, it is the relationship between Sadie and Lara. There are some genuinely touching moments; I must say that the characters in this \"fluffy chick lit\" resonated with me more than some of those in classic works I've read. Kinsella is true talent! The tale left me wishing I could have got glimpses into the lives of my departed grandparents when they were in their '20s, and to spend even more time with my eighty-six-year-old grandfather--though, thankfully, I have appreciated what a good thing he is all these years! I don't need this book to make me realize THAT :-) \"Twenties Girl\" does have the trademark Kinsella humor, but it really touches the heartstrings, too. *~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~* I hope this is good but don't think I'll pay hardcover prices for it evenif it is! Still, I felt Kinsella could be a kindred spirit when we saw her at the author talk last year and her love of the 1920s furthers my suspicion!!! \"Writing Twenties Girl was like going on my own magical mystery tour. My U.S. editor Susan Kamil had once said casually, \"You should write a ghost story one day.\" This comment stayed with me for years. I loved the idea, but didn't know who my ghost could be. I've always loved the glamour and spirit of the 1920s, and the idea came to me of a flapper ghost. A feisty, fun, glamorous girl who adored to dance and drink cocktails and get her own way. I wanted her to be a determined character who would blast into the life of someone with no warning and cause havoc. I then decided she should haunt a thoroughly modern girl, with all the culture clashes and comedy that would bring. Having come up with this idea I loved it, so it then remained to plunge myself into 1920s research, which was no hardship at all, as I find the era fascinating. I researched vintage make-up, vintage dresses, read fiction from the period, investigated 1920s slang, and tried to channel as much I could of those feisty flappers who cut their hair short (shock!), smoked cigarettes in public (shock!), had sex (shock!) and generally rebelled in all the outrageous ways they could. The book isn't a period piece though. It's a modern story about two girls and their sparky friendship, right here in the 21st century. One of them just happens to be a ghost from the 1920s. It's a quest, a romance, and a coming of age... and above all a comedy. It's no exaggeration to say that writing the character of Sadie made me look at life differently, and I hope some readers feel the same way. \u2014Sophie Kinsella\" ...more OMG. This book surprised me so much!! 'Remember me' was my first Kinsella book,and though i loved it, i must say i loved Twenties Girl even more! The story was so unique and funny and heart warming. \u2665 I did not relate to Lara,and sometimes she pissed me off,but she had such a character development..she turned out amazing! Sadie was the sun,life's joy and the personalization of fun! She was the best ghost i've ever 'seen' or 'read' . Ed on the other hand...I LOVE HIMMM!!! He's like a modern Mister OMG. This book surprised me so much!! 'Remember me' was my first Kinsella book,and though i loved it, i must say i loved Twenties Girl even more! The story was so unique and funny and heart warming. \u2665 I did not relate to Lara,and sometimes she pissed me off,but she had such a character development..she turned out amazing! Sadie was the sun,life's joy and the personalization of fun! She was the best ghost i've ever 'seen' or 'read' . Ed on the other hand...I LOVE HIMMM!!! He's like a modern Mister Darcy and i couldn't help but falling in love with him just as Lara did. The ending was satisfactory and really emotional. I loved reading this book so much. Its a laugh out loud,cry your eyes out,page-turner and stay up late reading it,kind of book. \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 ...more Very sweet book and I loved the message about appreciating the elderly and older people in our lives. Actual rating 4.25 stars! I will never understand what kind of Jedi mind tricks Sophie Kinsella employs with her books. If any other author wrote this story I would have thrown it down in frustration. I'd be writing a scathing review about cheap plot devices and sloppy characterization. But, I'm not. I enjoyed this book. I devoured it in a couple of hours. I was thoroughly entertained by it, despite the fact that it's not really a \"good book.\" This is the power that Kinsella has. Her energetic writing style and likable, I will never understand what kind of Jedi mind tricks Sophie Kinsella employs with her books. If any other author wrote this story I would have thrown it down in frustration. I'd be writing a scathing review about cheap plot devices and sloppy characterization. But, I'm not. I enjoyed this book. I devoured it in a couple of hours. I was thoroughly entertained by it, despite the fact that it's not really a \"good book.\" This is the power that Kinsella has. Her energetic writing style and likable, if hugely flawed, characters are sort of impossible to dislike. Think about Becky Bloomwood, who is kind of an idiot and irresponsible at best. And yet, you want to be her best friend. It's the same with Lara, the heroine of Twenties Girl. She's a bit of a sad sack and allows herself to be completely spun around by a domineering ghost. Yes, a ghost. And yet, she's adorable. You root for her and want her to solve the mystery of the missing necklace. Jedi mind tricks. I can come up with no other explanation. I'm not even going to recount the storyline here, like I normally do, because if I type out the plot of Twenties Girl I will start asking myself a lot of tough questions about why I actually liked such a ludicrous story. So, I just won't. It was a fun, brainless and totally engaging Summer read. I enjoyed the heck out of it. And now I want to learn how to dance the Charleston. ...more It was fun! I really enjoyed this book. I liked Sadie\u2019s fierce and oppressive character and the comic situations made me laugh. Although some scenes were extremely embarrassing: Sadie forced Lara to do things nobody would do unless threatened lethally. Anyway, Lara needs a development: at the beginning of the story, she is a naive, self-deceptive, obsessional, sometimes infantile young woman, with a serious \u201callergy\u201d to her own family, and without real friends. But she has a strong sense of justi It was fun! I really enjoyed this book. I liked Sadie\u2019s fierce and oppressive character and the comic situations made me laugh. Although some scenes were extremely embarrassing: Sadie forced Lara to do things nobody would do unless threatened lethally. Anyway, Lara needs a development: at the beginning of the story, she is a naive, self-deceptive, obsessional, sometimes infantile young woman, with a serious \u201callergy\u201d to her own family, and without real friends. But she has a strong sense of justice, she is persistent, kind, honest, and true to her principles, even if they look idealistic. By the end of the novel, she learns lots of thing about life, love, friendship, family, people surrounding her, and of course about herself. The story is more a coming-of-age novel in chick-lit style than a romance. The plot is slow in the first half of the story, but the mystery of the dragonfly-necklace and the life-story of Sadie are really interesting, and smartly developed. Kinsella\u2019s humor is very unique, I really recommend this book! Originally posted on my blog on October 26, 2012. My favorite quotes. ...more 3,5* \u201cLife is like an escalator. You see, it carries you on regardless. And you might as well enjoy the view and seize every opportunity while you're passing. Otherwise, it'll be too late.\u201d Gosto sempre de ter uns livros mais leves e divertidos na estante e Sophie Kinsella nunca falha! Opini\u00e3o completa aqui: http://ourlittlehouseofbooks.blogspot... For me this is one of the best chick-lit books ever. It is funny, original, and surprising. It has a family secret to uncover and a magical twist. I have read all of Kinsella\u2019s books, but this one is most definitely my favorite. This was a FUN read. If you like romatic comedy and light ghost stories and light myster it is for you in spades. British author and takes place in London - the perspective on the American boyfriend is interesting. Starts slow but accelerates to the end. Sorry when you turn the last page. \"Kelahiran sebenarnya bukan permulaan. Awal hidup kita bukanlah milik kita, melainkan kelanjutan dari kisah orang lain.\" - Diane Setterfield, The Thirteenth Tale , p. 97. Beberapa waktu setelah kakek meninggal dunia, mama menemukan 2 lembar surat yang beliau tulis untuk (saat ini almarhumah) nenek. Tidak ada yang luar biasa pada kedua lembaran surat itu. Tapi surat itu istimewa. Dua lembar surat yang diketik rapi. Dengan ejaan lama. Menceritakan mengenai mimpi yang kakek alami sebelum beliau memutus \"Kelahiran sebenarnya bukan permulaan. Awal hidup kita bukanlah milik kita, melainkan kelanjutan dari kisah orang lain.\" - Diane Setterfield, The Thirteenth Tale , p. 97. Beberapa waktu setelah kakek meninggal dunia, mama menemukan 2 lembar surat yang beliau tulis untuk (saat ini almarhumah) nenek. Tidak ada yang luar biasa pada kedua lembaran surat itu. Tapi surat itu istimewa. Dua lembar surat yang diketik rapi. Dengan ejaan lama. Menceritakan mengenai mimpi yang kakek alami sebelum beliau memutuskan untuk menikahi nenek. Dalam mimpi itu, nenek mengalami kecelakaan. Dan ketakutan akan kehilangan nenek begitu nyata baginya, beliau kemudian memutuskan untuk melamar nenek. Berpuluh-puluh tahun kemudian, surat itu masih disimpan. Dan ditemukan oleh mama saat kami sedang membereskan barang-barang peninggalannya. Memegang surat cinta tersebut ditangan, kami menangis dan tersenyum saat membacanya. Begitu rupanya. Begitu rupanya beliau dapat meyakinkan nenek agar mau menikah dengannya. Seperti itu rupanya surat cinta di tahun 1950an. Surat cinta yang istimewa ini tidak menarik kami kembali ke masa lalu. Tidak seperti Lara yang beruntung bisa merasakan pengalaman seperti apa hidup di tahun 1920an karena keriaan yang dibawa oleh arwah bibinya Sadie ke dalam kehidupannya. Tidak ada kisah-kisah dan intrik yang perlu dibongkar kebenarannya, ditegakkan keadilannya, karena memang kali ini, cuma kenangan dan kerinduan yang berbicara. Tidak ada pencarian cinta sejati. Karena cinta sejati itu ada disini. Disaksikan oleh lembaran surat yang masih utuh dan tersimpan dengan baik hingga hari ini. Menakjubkan bagaimana manusia mengingat orang yang berharga di dalam hidupnya. Kita menyimpan kata, suara, paparan jelas sosok yang dulu pernah ada, aroma yang lamat-lamat hilang dan tak lagi dapat dikenali. Diantaranya pula tersimpan rasa. Semua tergambar jelas di kepala dalam balutan rindu. Sampai hari ini, hampir 16 tahun sepeninggal almarhum kakek, semua rasa itu masih bertahan. Aman. Tersimpan dalam sebentuk kenangan. Tidak perlu lagi rasanya menceritakan bagaimana Kinsella menjalin ceritanya, merupa tokoh-tokoh utama di dalam benak pembacanya, konflik yang dipaparkan, jalan cerita yang naik dan turun dengan harmonisasi tersendiri. Tapi buku ini akan selalu jadi salah satu buku favorit gue di tahun 2012 ini. Buku yang akan selalu gue baca lagi manakala kerinduan itu hadir. Kita tidak tahu kemana kita akan pergi setelah kita mati. Tapi kita tahu, sesudah napas kita berhenti, hidup orang-orang di sekeliling kita akan terus berjalan, sekalipun tidak akan sama lagi karena kita tak lagi ada untuk mereka. Terus berjalan sampai akhirnya mereka menemui akhir kisahnya sendiri. Secara pribadi, berusaha memahami kematian semampu yang gue bisa justru mengantarkan gue pada kesadaran bahwa segala sesuatunya harus dipersiapkan sebaik yang gue bisa. Dan itu melegakan. Mengetahui bahwa suatu hari nanti kita akan dipertemukan lagi dengan semua yang kita kasihi dan mengasihi kita. Entah kapan. Karenanya, pertemuan itu harus dipersiapkan dengan penuh suka cita. Begitu, bukan? \"Dan ini kerinduan yang tak akan pernah bisa tergantikan. Saat-saat dimana harapan akan satu kali dekapan rela ditukar dengan apapun yang bisa aku berikan. Peluklah aku lagi di hari kita bertemu kembali. Janji?\" 20 Agustus 2012. Aku menghapus air mataku di pusaramu. ...more Twenties Girl is classic Kinsella with a paranormal twist. The story kicks off with Lara Lington, another fashion-conscious, twenty-something working gal in London. She has just been dumped by the \"perfect man\". And - bigger bonus - she is left in the lurch by her best friend/partner to run their new head-hunting business alone. While attending the funeral of her Great Aunt Sadie, Lara is shocked when Sadie materializes in front of her and demands Lara track down her beaded dragonfly necklace. I Twenties Girl is classic Kinsella with a paranormal twist. The story kicks off with Lara Lington, another fashion-conscious, twenty-something working gal in London. She has just been dumped by the \"perfect man\". And - bigger bonus - she is left in the lurch by her best friend/partner to run their new head-hunting business alone. While attending the funeral of her Great Aunt Sadie, Lara is shocked when Sadie materializes in front of her and demands Lara track down her beaded dragonfly necklace. Instead of materializing as her ancient, wrinkled self, Sadie is young and beautiful. Headstrong. Fiesty. A party-hearty flapper girl. The banter and verbal sparring between Lara and Sadie tickled my funny bone to no end. Sadie is scornful of Lara's way of life and doesn't bother holding back her opinions in the romance department either. Sadie quickly learns she has the power to control people's minds by obnoxiously shouting in their ears over and over again until they do exactly as she says. This proves to be useful to Lara who also discovers that Sadie is capable of spying for her, playing matchmaker and closing business deals. These two end up working together very well and learn some surprising truths from each other along the way. Vintage costumes from the 20's are donned. Champagne is sipped. The Charleston is danced. Generations are compared. And the villans in this book receive their comeuppance in screwball comedy style. I was surprised to discover two very sweet romances take place in this book. Sadie's own romance is heart-breaking as her past is revealed and she proves to be a fragile, lovable creature after all. Lara's unexpected love match takes place as she works to solve a mystery involving her family. When I crack open a Kinsella book, I feel like I am settling down for a fun evening with a very dear friend. This book is both charming and humorous. The cover is chic and girly. It was a great first attempt by the author in the paranormal arena. ...more I have yet to meet a Sophie Kinsella novel that I don't like. Kinsella remains true to her lighthearted, hilarious style with Twenties Girl and I, for one, am grateful for it. Lara is comparable to the rest of Kinsella's heroines: sweet, idealistic, and a bit ditzy (but not so much that you end up hating her). Of course the plot is rather far-fetched, but that's what you should expect and want when picking up a Kinsella book. It just makes the story that much more enjoyable. Lara and the ghost of I have yet to meet a Sophie Kinsella novel that I don't like. Kinsella remains true to her lighthearted, hilarious style with Twenties Girl and I, for one, am grateful for it. Lara is comparable to the rest of Kinsella's heroines: sweet, idealistic, and a bit ditzy (but not so much that you end up hating her). Of course the plot is rather far-fetched, but that's what you should expect and want when picking up a Kinsella book. It just makes the story that much more enjoyable. Lara and the ghost of her great-aunt, Sadie, make such a fun and complementary duo. When Lara bumbles around, Sadie serves to just throw even more hurdles in her path. Like in her other novels, Kinsella isn't just all about the laughs here. The importance of family, friendship, loyalty and honesty are all major focuses throughout the plot. And, of course, there's the romantic subplot involving a hero who's more sweet than sexy, lending to the overall pleasant feeling about the novel... ...To continue reading this review, click here to visit my blog, The Eclectic Book Lover . ...more 4.5 I'm pretty sure this is my favorite Sophie Kinsella book yet! I still got annoyed with some of the characters, but this one had an air of mystery that kept me seriously attached! I do recommend it, but I also want to add that you should be patient while you read. It's worth getting through all those annoying obstacles! It was full of hilarity, plenty of second hand embarrassment, love, friendship, and struggles. I thoroughly enjoyed it!! So I have noticed that all of Sophie Kinsella's adult female 4.5 I'm pretty sure this is my favorite Sophie Kinsella book yet! I still got annoyed with some of the characters, but this one had an air of mystery that kept me seriously attached! I do recommend it, but I also want to add that you should be patient while you read. It's worth getting through all those annoying obstacles! It was full of hilarity, plenty of second hand embarrassment, love, friendship, and struggles. I thoroughly enjoyed it!! So I have noticed that all of Sophie Kinsella's adult female characters follow the same general arc: Makes silly life decisions --> makes downright idiotic life decisions and somehow still manages to get through it --> becomes a wiser person from the crazy experience. This entire book was me going back and forth between wanted to punch Sadie were she not a ghost, and wanting to hug her, again were she not a ghost......and also a book character...... Lara was too generous with Sadie! I would have lost my patience back in chapter 6 (I just picked a chapter number. I don't know what's actually in chapter 6). Sadie was the most frustrating yet loving companion! She would drive me nuts one moment, then make me love her all over again a few pages later. She's magical! And I miss her.... I won't go into details, but let's just say that the romance was a lot of fun and the mystery was so awesome!! Bill Lington though! Haha I really wanted to slap him throughout the entirety of the book! ...more Buku ini saya selesaikan hanya dalam tempo beberapa jam,ah, betapa menyenangkan... sudah lama sekali saya tak membaca chick-lit,padahal jaman kuliah dulu beberapa teman menjuluki saya sebagai ratu genre buku yang dipelopori Helen Fielding, Sophie Kinsella, Jane Green dkk ini. Waktu itu rasanya tak ada satupun buku chick-lit (yg diterjemahkan oleh GPU dan dilabeli tulisan \"being single and happy\" ini) yang tak saya baca. tapi lama kelamaan, terlalu banyak chick-lit yang diterbitkan, dan pesonanya Buku ini saya selesaikan hanya dalam tempo beberapa jam,ah, betapa menyenangkan... sudah lama sekali saya tak membaca chick-lit,padahal jaman kuliah dulu beberapa teman menjuluki saya sebagai ratu genre buku yang dipelopori Helen Fielding, Sophie Kinsella, Jane Green dkk ini. Waktu itu rasanya tak ada satupun buku chick-lit (yg diterjemahkan oleh GPU dan dilabeli tulisan \"being single and happy\" ini) yang tak saya baca. tapi lama kelamaan, terlalu banyak chick-lit yang diterbitkan, dan pesonanya mulai pudar bagi saya. apalagi rasanya chick-lit yang diterbitkan kemudian dan sebagus generasi awalnya. tapi, membaca Twenties Girl ini, atau yang diterjemahkan menjadi Gadis Charleston kembali mengingatkan saya, kenapa genre ini sempat menjadi favorit saya. Twenties Girl bagi saya punya paket lengkap yang menjadikan chick-lit sesuatu yang istimewa: wit, humor, and romance. ketiga formula ini buat saya harus ada,dan walaupun terkesan simpel, tapi sebenarnya tak mudah mencampurkan ketiganya menjadi sebuah buku yang ringan dan enak dibaca,tapi juga tidak kosong. untungnya, sophie kinsella masih mampu meramu ketiga hal tadi kedalam tulisannya, malah bisa dibilang, buku yang agak bersifat paranormal ini melampaui buku2 Kinsella sebelumnya. Buku ini bercerita tentang Lara Lington. Di awal buku, Lara digambarkan sebagai seorang pathetic loser.sucks both in love and professional life. Sampai ketika Sadie Lancaster, adik neneknya, masuk ke dalam hidupnya, dalam bentuk arwah. Hidup Lara yang membosankan berubah menjadi penuh warna dengan hadirnya Sadie. Untuk detailnya silahkan baca sendiri,hehehe. Yang pasti, banyak adegan segar dalam buku ini. Bukan adegan yang basicnya sama, tapi selalu diulang hanya dalam penampilan berbeda. Satu lagi yang istimewa, akhir cerita ini tak tertebak. Kinsella tidak memberi hints ttg apa yang akan terjadi di akhir cerita, membuat buku ini berakhir dengan kejutan yang menyenangkan. Perubahan diri Lara, dari seorang cewek yang payah, menjadi seseorang yang istimewa juga tidak terjadi hanya dalam tempo semalam. Kita diperlihatkan bagaimana Lara berubah, dan bagaimana Sadie membantunya. Hubungan mereka yang awalnya hanya didasarkan azaz manfaatpun berubah menjadi sesuatu yang real,and how they end up as good friends. Oh, dan tentu saja kehadiran Ed Harrison yang tall, dark, and handsome membuat buku ini more enchanting. But or course, of all the above are just in my humble opinion. Note to others: Never be ashamed to admit that you like chick-lit (sambil ngelirik tiang yang lg dipanjati seorang aki2). These kind of books are special. And to like them, just emphasized that you are too *wink* ...more Twenties Girl is a fun, feisty and fast-paced read about Lara, a twenty-something whose life seems to be slipping out of control - the love of her life has dumped her, her business partner has decided to take an impromptu holiday with no set return date and she basically has no idea what she's doing. So when she sees the 23-year-old ghost of her great aunt Sadie, Lara naturally thinks she has lost her mind. But Sadie's appearance soon ends up on Lara going on an adventure looking for Sadie's fav Twenties Girl is a fun, feisty and fast-paced read about Lara, a twenty-something whose life seems to be slipping out of control - the love of her life has dumped her, her business partner has decided to take an impromptu holiday with no set return date and she basically has no idea what she's doing. So when she sees the 23-year-old ghost of her great aunt Sadie, Lara naturally thinks she has lost her mind. But Sadie's appearance soon ends up on Lara going on an adventure looking for Sadie's favourite necklace, learning the Charleston and dancing into the night. You know when you pick up a book just at the perfect time? This was Twenties Girl for me. I was in a mood where I really needed a laugh out loud, fun read to help pick me up and this just did it. Lara is hilarious, as is Sadie and they are both infectious, bubbly and people you just want to be friends with. There were so many different little plots that were interesting from Lara's Uncle Bill and his connection with the necklace, Lara's relationship with Josh and then Ed, Natalie - Lara's business partner and then Sadie's lost love and history as well. I feel like this was really well-paced and Lara's character development was fantastic. She really grew up in terms of dealing with Josh, Natalie and then also realising things about family and caring for the elderly. You could definitely see her becoming a less self-involved person along the way while also developing a flair for 1920s fashion! ...more You'll never get over Sophie Kinsella's books. You'll find yourself wanting more and more even though the writing style isn't really perfect, and the author admires embarrassing the heroine, and sometimes it's really annoying. But it's amazing. I just want to clarify that this book is not at all flawless, it actually floats on a sea full of flaws, but I didn't just like the book, I admired it. I also want to tell you that 80% of the story is really unrealistic, but not in annoying way, in a S You'll never  get over Sophie Kinsella's books. You'll find yourself wanting more and more even though the writing style isn't really perfect, and the author admires embarrassing the heroine, and sometimes it's really annoying. But it's amazing. I just want to clarify that this book is not at all flawless, it actually floats on a sea full of flaws, but I didn't just like the book, I admired it. I also want to tell you that 80% of the story is really unrealistic, but not in annoying way, in a Sophie Kinsella nice way. The story talks about a twenty-seven year old Lara Lington who's a typical Sophie Kinsella awkward funny girl. Lara has a famous uncle who's known for his great success, an annoying sister that loves her sister's misery, a friend that abandoned her in the middle of the work, leaving Lara in a haze, and a boyfriend who completely doesn't give a shit about her. The story starts off with Lara not wanting to attend her Great-Aunt's funeral, because no one in the family actually knew her, so why should they go? Her parents force her to go anyway and that's when she meets her dead aunt, Sadie. After a hilarious encounter Sadie keeps telling Lara to find her the beautiful necklace she wants. Eventually, Lara agrees, and they set off to an amazing, hilarious, life changing journey. And I can't say more than that. On the other hand, Lara still thinks that Josh loves her and she wants him so much even if it means telling your Great-Aunt's ghost to make him do it. [As Sadie had the ability to whisper-force people to do whatever she wants] Only I can say how she had absolutely no dignity when it came to Josh and it really annoyed me and the author uses to many frustrating exclamation marks and Lara was really annoying The story was really amazing excluding how annoying Lara was when it came to Josh and how she was sometimes too stupid for my liking, and sometimes a bit selfish when it came to Sadie and the first literally made me laugh out loud. Usually, when a book or a show is being funny you'll find me sitting with a poker face, it gets hard for me to laugh when I know someone is attempting to do something in order to make me laugh. But this book made me laugh a hell lot. Really, the unrealism (and not just because there's a ghost in the story) of the book was really entertaining. It would be unfair to give it any less than 5 stars considering how much I enjoyed it. And I want to say that it's not just a funny book, it has a very great meaning too. At the end of the book something as greast as you'll ever think will happen. It was even more delighting that this book isn't just about making you laugh. It actually shows me how right One Hundred Names by Cecelia Ahern is. I was quite astonished. ...more After reading a lot of crime and thrillers recently, I decided to have some light relief and read this book which was recommended to me by a Goodreads friend. It's absolutely brilliant, laugh out loud funny at times, and very sad at others. Our heroine, Lara, is just one of the funniest characters I have come across and has a heart of gold. Her great aunt, Sadie, is the ghost who is her guardian angel at times, and extremely annoying to Lara at others. The story races along with Lara trying to re After reading a lot of crime and thrillers recently, I decided to have some light relief and read this book which was recommended to me by a Goodreads friend. It's absolutely brilliant, laugh out loud funny at times, and very sad at others. Our heroine, Lara, is just one of the funniest characters I have come across and has a heart of gold. Her great aunt, Sadie, is the ghost who is her guardian angel at times, and extremely annoying to Lara at others. The story races along with Lara trying to reunite Sadie with her necklace before she is cremated. Other revelations come to light along the way and, of course, the romance side of it too is hilarious at times. I thoroughly enjoyed this and, as its my first Sophie Kinsella book, I can honestly say it will not be my last. Good, enjoyable fun. Highly recommended. ...more This was just plain weird, nothing like her other books, I don't know. I guess I just didn't like it. I don't even know how to rate it. If your looking for something by her, check out some of her other books. This one really isn't that great. It is awesome... hilarious, touching, and very pleasing to read.. It is a book to read to take your mind off any pressure... I love it.. First romantic comedy to make my list of personal favourites! I really liked this book. So cute and yes I shed a few tears at the end of it. This might be my new favorite by Sophie Kinsella.... I absolutely loved the paranormal/magical realism aspect of this book... The relationship between Sadie and Lara was so fun... so many laugh out loud moments, made me want to put on a flapper dress and do the Charleston... not sure about that 1920s make up though..... I also really liked the relationship between Ed and Lara she was just the right shade of color to add to his life..... this book just left me feeling good, and now I want a great This might be my new favorite by Sophie Kinsella.... I absolutely loved the paranormal/magical realism aspect of this book... The relationship between Sadie and Lara was so fun... so many laugh out loud moments, made me want to put on a flapper dress and do the Charleston... not sure about that 1920s make up though..... I also really liked the relationship between Ed and Lara she was just the right shade of color to add to his life..... this book just left me feeling good, and now I want a great aunt to come haunt me.... ...more When you say Sophie Kinsella the words that come to my mind are breezy read, adorable & characters which you can relate with, hilarious situations & value for money. Thankfully she doesn\u2019t disappoint us even this time. When I had first read about the book I knew that she can not go wrong this time as well. Lara, 20 something is the girl of the present generation. Her life is in shambles because her partner in her startup business has eloped to Goa leaving the business in lurch. She has be When you say Sophie Kinsella the words that come to my mind are breezy read, adorable & characters which you can relate with, hilarious situations & value for money. Thankfully she doesn\u2019t disappoint us even this time. When I had first read about the book I knew that she can not go wrong this time as well. Lara, 20 something is the girl of the present generation. Her life is in shambles because her partner in her startup business has eloped to Goa leaving the business in lurch. She has been dumped by her boyfriend and her parents are behind her life to move on. It is under such circumstances that she attends the funeral of her 105 old Great Aunt Sadie. The otherwise dull funeral takes a turn for an exciting beginning when Aunt Sadie lands up as a ghost, a ghost which only Lara can see and hear. Aunt Sadie has a mission in mind. She wants to track down her missing dragon necklace and Lara is the one who can do it for her. What follows next is a hilarious & roller coaster ride for the readers. I am so tempted to reveal more about the book & the plot because there are so many things that I can share and we all can laugh on it together but then that would take away the fun from the book. Sophie has yet again delivered a must read chick lit for all her faithful readers. While her writing leaves you chuckling, her imagination will leave you in awe. She pulls out some adorably funny moments out of her hat which leaves you loving the characters. Aunt Sadie\u2019s antics will surely get enough chuckles out of us. Come to think of it the basic premise of the book is such that the book had to be good. There are places where you see the glimpses of Becky in Lara there is the same goofiness, as adorable as Becky et. al and it made me think if the author is becoming repetitive. But as I read on I realised that the treatment might be slightly similar but story & formula\u2019s are such that the book stands out and makes the wait for her next book quite painful. I would strongly recommend this book to all. It is not path breaking but fultoo entertainment ...more I didn't enjoy the start of the book. However, it picked up and I enjoyed the humour shared between Great Aunt Sadie and Lara. Lara is your clueless chick lit character who becomes much too obsessed with a man not interested in her. When will chick lit learn to create strong female characters who are not psychotic? It makes me more tired of the genre every time I pick up one of these books. Beyond words!! Sophie Kinsella creates the most ridiculous characters and puts them into simultaneously ridiculous situations. I could never get enough of her books. 4.5 Bintang. Wah yang ini ada bagian sedihnya. Akhirnya aku tahu satu lagi kehebatan Sophie Kinsella. Ketika tokoh utama dalam novelnya memutuskan untuk membenci tokoh antagonis pada kadar tertentu, maka dia bisa membuat pembaca ikut membenci tokoh itu dua kali lipat dari kadar kebencian tokoh utama. Awalnya kesel banget dengan si Hantu Sadie ini, tp lama kelamaan aku juga bisa menyukainya seperti Lara. Selain itu aku suka dengan karakter Ed yang tenang dan seperti pelindung, juga bagaimana dia m 4.5 Bintang. Wah yang ini ada bagian sedihnya. Akhirnya aku tahu satu lagi kehebatan Sophie Kinsella. Ketika tokoh utama dalam novelnya memutuskan untuk membenci tokoh antagonis pada kadar tertentu, maka dia bisa membuat pembaca ikut membenci tokoh itu dua kali lipat dari kadar kebencian tokoh utama. Awalnya kesel banget dengan si Hantu Sadie ini, tp lama kelamaan aku juga bisa menyukainya seperti Lara. Selain itu aku suka dengan karakter Ed yang tenang dan seperti pelindung, juga bagaimana dia menghadapi Lara. Manis banget lah si Ed ini. Seperti biasa semua masalah diselesaikan dengan tuntas dan memuaskan. Lagi-lagi aku merasa sangat terhibur membaca karya penulis yg satu ini :) ...more", "Title": "Twenties Girl"},
