{"Comments": "Originally published on my blog here in October 2002. Jeffrey Deaver may usually be a writer of traditional thrillers, but with <+++>The Blue Nowhere</+++> he joins the small group of authors who can convincingly depict the world of the computer hacker ( Neal Stephenson and William Gibson being the best known of the others). The basic plot of <+++>The Blue Nowhere</+++> is a computerised version of the Eddie Murphy film 48 Hours; a hacker is let out of prison to help the LAPD Computer Crimes Unit track down another hack Originally published on my blog here in October 2002. Jeffrey Deaver may usually be a writer of traditional thrillers, but with The Blue Nowhere he joins the small group of authors who can convincingly depict the world of the computer hacker ( Neal Stephenson and William Gibson being the best known of the others). The basic plot of The Blue Nowhere is a computerised version of the Eddie Murphy film 48 Hours; a hacker is let out of prison to help the LAPD Computer Crimes Unit track down another hacker,<---M> who has the screen name Phate</---M>, who has turned serial killer. The actual crime plot is pretty hackneyed, but the computing background means that the novel is more than just a run of the mill police procedural. (The style, by the way, is similar to Michael Connelly .) The one part of the plot which seems unlikely, if not impossible, is the program used by Phate to target the victims, which is named Trapdoor. (Deaver admids in the acknowledgements that the experts he consulted were dubious about the way it is supposed to work.) Phate has cracked one of the major Internet routers, and uses a steganographic (and the proof reader of the novel should note the spelling of the word) method to infect the target machine, sending small sections of the Trapdoor program in individual IP packets which are part of the normal online communication. (Steganographic means \"hidden writing\" , and is the process of writing a secret message as part of an innocent one, say be using every twentieth character, or altering specified bits of an image file.) To put the information into IP packets, given control of a router, would not be particularly difficult. The problem is that once the data reaches the target computer, it needs to be separated out from the genuine information, re-assembled and then executed, and I can't see any way that this could be done barring serious bugs in the IP stack and operating system of the computer being attacked. This is essentially the same reason that a virus spread as an email attachment is not activated unless the user or operating system is conned into executing (opening) the attachment - computers need a reason to run a piece of software. The reasons that systems are vulnerable to cracking are generally attributable to human carelessness, such things as users writing down passwords or using obvious words, or bugs in software which can be exploited. Since the Trapdoor program is important to the plot, this is something of a problem; yet the convincing nature of the rest of the setting makes it easy enough to suspend disbelief and enjoy the novel. ...more Even when it's not Lincoln Rhyme, it's a marvelous, captivating story! Probably my favorite Jeffrey Deaver Novel. This was the first book by this author that I have read after a work colleague recommended it to me about 2 years ago. Having finally got round to reading it, I found myself really enjoying it. It is a very, very scary look at the world for cyberspace and IT in general. I work in IT and it scared me a lot! The story's main character is Gillette who is hacker. He starts off the book in prison for hacking into the Department of Defence computers and allegedly running a piece of software that could This was the first book by this author that I have read after a work colleague recommended it to me about 2 years ago. Having finally got round to reading it, I found myself really enjoying it. It is a very, very scary look at the world for cyberspace and IT in general. I work in IT and it scared me a lot! The story's main character is Gillette who is hacker. He starts off the book in prison for hacking into the Department of Defence computers and allegedly running a piece of software that could encrypt their 'unbreakable' Standard 12 software. The police are after a hacker by the name of Phate (who is hacking into people's computers, finding out information about them and then killing them) and his assistant Shawn. The police know that the only way catch Phate is to play him at his own game.<---F> Enter Gillette</---F>. The level of detail and knowledge in is book is brilliant. There is a very modern fear that we will all be `hacked' and that people can find out a lot of information about us and Deaver has exploited our fear very well. The thing that makes this book so scary is that you can actually see this happening. This could be a possibility. I don't agree with other reviewers opinions that if you are not a `computer person', you should not read this book. I think this book will appeal to everyone, regardless of your level of computer knowledge. This book gripped me from the start and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I will now seek out more of this books. ...more I really enjoyed this book, so many years after it was published. Even though technology is advancing so rapidly in our time, this book still feels relevant. Of course, the use of floppy disks is rather outdated! But Deaver created a protagonist that I really liked, and an extremely formidable antagonist, which greatly contributed to the story. As you would expect of a Deaver novel, it is full of twists and turns, and it will keep you hooked to the last page. Deaver can spin a tale like no other! I'd forgotten how much I like his books. A crazy book about computer hackers & control they could have over people's lives. Excellent, edge of your seat read! Cyberspace thriller pretty accurate, complex & pleasing plot... This was our first book by Deaver, so we had no background of his apparently pretty good list of best sellers to influence our thoughts on this one. But the sheer joy of the story, with some incredible twists here and there, kept us entertained throughout. Based on a reference from a friend who knew of our lengthy career in real computer mainframes, we were afraid the computer terminology might be at the 4th grade level or else Cyberspace thriller pretty accurate, complex & pleasing plot... This was our first book by Deaver, so we had no background of his apparently pretty good list of best sellers to influence our thoughts on this one. But the sheer joy of the story, with some incredible twists here and there, kept us entertained throughout. Based on a reference from a friend who knew of our lengthy career in real computer mainframes, we were afraid the computer terminology might be at the 4th grade level or else totally fictional and unreal. Neither extreme was the case, implying that the author did a fine job of research for this book. If you know nothing about the internet (World Wide Web) or \"cyberspace\" or as its called herein, the \"Blue Nowhere\", you will learn a lot; and most of it is at least plausible. Two expert hackers are at each other's throats, literally, as one, Wyatt Gillette, assists the cops in identifying and tracking the other, a wizard known as Phate. The one gone bad is so caught up in unreality that he sees nothing wrong with murdering with a knife through the heart his totally innocent victims picked only for the challenge to physically get at them. Other members of the Computer Crime Unit are at times helpful and at other suspected as abetting the bad guy. In a series of plot surprises, many deaths occur with the cops just a few minutes or less from nabbing the culprits. Overall, we liked this novel: Deaver maintains a high level of suspense for almost the entire book, despite the obvious setup work and occasional tutoring he needs to do to make the computer stuff make sense. We do come to care about the characters and really want that bad guy nailed, and once the book gets toward mid-way, our reluctance to put it down is probably the best recommendation. While we think some of the hacking described is a little far-fetched, those concerned about identity theft and similar \"new age\" white-collar crime will find much to think about here as well. All told, we find more than ample reasons to pursue other Deaver works. ...more The most amusing thing about reading this book in 2011 is that it's ten years old and most, if not all, of the computer-based science and hacking and Internet lingo used by the characters is now outdated. Still, Deaver writes well, and his characters show some depth. Wyatt Gillette, a hacker, is sprung from prison to help a task force find and capture a hacker known only as Phate. Apparently Wyatt and Phate were partners and friends at one time, but Phate has lost sight of reality and has begun The most amusing thing about reading this book in 2011 is that it's ten years old and most, if not all, of the computer-based science and hacking and Internet lingo used by the characters is now outdated. Still, Deaver writes well, and his characters show some depth. Wyatt Gillette, a hacker, is sprung from prison to help a task force find and capture a hacker known only as Phate. Apparently Wyatt and Phate were partners and friends at one time, but Phate has lost sight of reality and has begun killing people IRL (in real life) instead of while playing an MMORPG. There's an unnecessary subplot about Wyatt trying to get back his estranged ex-wife that goes nowhere. However, the true identity of the mole inside the police department who notifies Phate of developments is a great plot twist. However, I'd still recommend the Lincoln Rhyme novels over this any day. ...more Ugh! This is one of those books I picked up a few years ago at a Friends of the Library booksale. Since I bought 2 boxes of books unseen, I am always pleased when one is from a known author. But that makes no difference in this case. It's not Jeffrey Deaver's fault. The book was written in 2000, and is about cyber crime that leaks into the real world. Every \"cyber\" word used is described in excrutiating detail. By now, most of the terms aren't used anymore. Virtually every character is now a clich Ugh! This is one of those books I picked up a few years ago at a Friends of the Library booksale. Since I bought 2 boxes of books unseen, I am always pleased when one is from a known author. But that makes no difference in this case. It's not Jeffrey Deaver's fault. The book was written in 2000, and is about cyber crime that leaks into the real world. Every \"cyber\" word used is described in excrutiating detail. By now, most of the terms aren't used anymore. Virtually every character is now a cliche. I wish I had read it when it first came out, but I find it tedious and laughable by turns right now. I'm not even sure if I'm going to finish reading it. I finished it. It wasn't worth it. ...more Worst Deaver I've read. Plotting fair, but too much expository filler, and all the \"social engineering\" stuff was annoying. An exceptionally excellent standalone. The \" nowhere\" represents online space, that world of electrons that hackers and unline freaks lose themselves in. It' a nifty metaphor and Deaver handles the technical details of this novel very well \u2014 at least as far as I could tell. A brilliant programmer, a cracker (someone who breaks into another computer to do damage as opposed to a hacker who just breaks in to poke around for the thrill of beating the system) is killing people and the Computer Crimes Unit relaizes they are in way over the The \" nowhere\" represents online space, that world of electrons that hackers and unline freaks lose themselves in. It' a nifty metaphor and Deaver handles the technical details of this novel very well \u2014 at least as far as I could tell. A brilliant programmer, a cracker (someone who breaks into another computer to do damage as opposed to a hacker who just breaks in to poke around for the thrill of beating the system) is killing people and the Computer Crimes Unit relaizes they are in way over their heads. They enlist the help of Wyatt Earp \u2014 oops, Wyatt Gillette \u2014 another brilliant hacker currently in jail for having broken in to some defense department computers \u2014 to help them find Phate. Phate (there are many spelling related puns) was a former associate of Wyatt' who has so confused reality with a computer game he was playing that he has mixed up the real killing with that of the computer game. By accessing linked computers he is able to \" engineer\" his identity (changing grades, occupation, references, ownership, etc.,) and track down an ever-increasing set of targets, giving himself additional points as the difficulty inceases. Of course, if you' paranoid, this book will really get you going, because Phate has created a program called Trapdoor that permits him to enter your computer and collect all the information stored therein and then use that data to his own nefarious purposes. Of course, if you never go online, you would have nothing to worry about. Throughout the story, Phate has an ally, one who keeps revealing the police plans and actions so Phate can stay one step ahead of the authorities. The identity of this ally, Shawn, comes as a complete and very satisfying surprise. Good story. ...more Thriller di Jeffrey Deaver stavolta non incentrato sui \"soliti\" Lincoln Rhyme ed Amelia Sachs, bens\u00ec su personaggi nuovi e con un'ambientazione piuttosto inusuale per l'autore: gli Hacker e, soprattutto, i Cracker.Quindi, riassumendo, abbiamo un thriller di Jeffrey Deaver per di pi\u00f9 con ambientazione informatica: potevo resistere? Assolutamente no, ovvio, e devo dire che ne sono estremamente lieto, dato che si tratta del primo romanzo dell'autore che mi piace veramente pur non avendo i suddetti Thriller di Jeffrey Deaver stavolta non incentrato sui \"soliti\" Lincoln Rhyme ed Amelia Sachs, bens\u00ec su personaggi nuovi e con un'ambientazione piuttosto inusuale per l'autore: gli Hacker e, soprattutto, i Cracker.Quindi, riassumendo, abbiamo un thriller di Jeffrey Deaver per di pi\u00f9 con ambientazione informatica: potevo resistere? Assolutamente no, ovvio, e devo dire che ne sono estremamente lieto, dato che si tratta del primo romanzo dell'autore che mi piace veramente pur non avendo i suddetti protagonisti.La storia \u00e8 intrigante, ben congegnata, imprevedibile (anche se qualche sospetto viene, ma di solito non si arriva a dargli corpo, almeno non correttamente) e racconta di un assassino, nome in codice Phate, che \u00e8 anche uno dei pi\u00f9 grandi se non il pi\u00f9 grande Hacker (o meglio, Cracker) vivente e che ha creato un virus particolare che permette l'accesso a QUALUNQUE sistema informatico lui voglia e quindi gli consente di entrare nelle vite altrui e scegliere accuratamente le sue vittime scoprendone ogni segreto nascosto: perch\u00e9 le uccide? Perch\u00e9 confonde reale e virtuale e vive come se stesse giocando ad un violento gioco di ruolo.Chi prova ad ostacolarlo? Un hacker, un vero hacker, geniale quasi quanto Phate, la cui collaborazione viene richiesta dalla polizia di stato.Detta cos\u00ec la trama pu\u00f2 sembrare un po' gi\u00e0 vista, ma l'autore \u00e8 in gamba e sa renderla originale: un plauso anche alle ricerche approfondite che ha fatto per rendere l'ambientazione il pi\u00f9 realistica possibile.Piccolo appunto: il libro si chiama in originale \"The Blue Nowhere\", che nel testo \u00e8 tradotto con un pi\u00f9 adatto \"Nulla Blu\", non mi risulta molto chiaro il motivo del cambiamento in \"Profondo Blu\". Comunque sia lo consiglio caldamente. ...more Absolutely horrendous. A very good premise, decent plot, with good pacing, but a technical thriller that 15-20% of the technical details are completely, ridiculously, and very very obviously wrong. See my comment. And a phishing attack is not \"searching the Web for details on someone. Holy crap, there was stuff like this every 2nd or third page! Being written in 2001 is not an excuse for blatantly over the top technical blunders. Fuzzy graphics mean someone has remoted into you pc. You didnt kno Absolutely horrendous. A very good premise, decent plot, with good pacing, but a technical thriller that 15-20% of the technical details are completely, ridiculously, and very very obviously wrong. See my comment. And a phishing attack is not \"searching the Web for details on someone. Holy crap, there was stuff like this every 2nd or third page! Being written in 2001 is not an excuse for blatantly over the top technical blunders. Fuzzy graphics mean someone has remoted into you pc. You didnt know that? How about sluggish keyboard response? See? You can learn all day long with this particular book. The only issue is that its not remotely correct. I MIGHT have been able to ignore page after page of tech bloopers, but when he started with lines like \"phishing -its always in the spelling\" and \"hes from the ELDER DAYS\" got news for you Deaver. No one in IT speaks that way. They never did either. Its like a bunch of almost-facts, or a tech-speak blender that scrambled everything until very little of it felt remotely real anymore. Any self respecting IT worker that actually works with tech woukd see that once the gloss is looked through, that at the granular level MOST of the tech in this novel is entirely INACCURATE. Not some. MOST. Theres no excuse for it either. Deaver could certainly have afforded highly accurate oversite. Unless he was just in a rush, didnt care, or didnt think getting above 85% accuracy mattered. I guess based on sales and reviews he was right. But not for this reader. When someone gives a detailed account of what happens when you press the \"d\" key on your pc, I have this crazy expectation that the account is accurate. Fool that I am. Apparently I am part of a very small contingent that needs te details to actually be correct. ...more Computers are everything to Wyatt Gillette, but because of computers the brilliant hacker has lost everything: his job, his marriage, his freedom. Locked away in a California prison, Gillette is approached by Detectives Bishop and Shelton of the Computer Crimes Unit. Another hacker (or \"cracker\" in the terminology of the times, i.e. someone who hacks with criminal intent rather than for the sheer joy of it) going only by the online handle \"Phate\" is using a powerful program of his own creation c Computers are everything to Wyatt Gillette, but because of computers the brilliant hacker has lost everything: his job, his marriage, his freedom. Locked away in a California prison, Gillette is approached by Detectives Bishop and Shelton of the Computer Crimes Unit. Another hacker (or \"cracker\" in the terminology of the times, i.e. someone who hacks with criminal intent rather than for the sheer joy of it) going only by the online handle \"Phate\" is using a powerful program of his own creation called Trapdoor to gain access to personal computers, learn everything he can about a potential victim, then lure them to their deaths in a MUD (multi user domain) game that exists only in his own diseased imagination. Gillette, Bishop, the unsympathetic Shelton and a team of computer specialists go on a manhunt for the serial killer Phate, with the dual mission of preventing further murders and eventually apprehending the killer. Deaver as usual provides us with a convoluted but plausible storyline with plenty of plot twists and more than the occasional red herring dragged across our path. Any book written about computers in 2001 will inevitably be out of date (even science fiction writers like William Gibson have trouble staying ahead of the curve), but THE BLUE NOWHERE is nevertheless a fascinating look at computer hacking, the lifestyle of the hackers, and even the history of computers. It seems to have been very thoroughly researched and believably written. Phate, Gillette and Bishop are pretty well fleshed out as characters. Several others in the story seem less so, but some vagueness is necessary since almost everyone is a potential suspect as Phate's accomplice Shawn. ...more I was on a <---A>Jeffery Deaver</---A> kick a few years ago and being unable to find an unread Lincoln Rhyme novel (one of which later ended my obsessive reading of Mr. Deaver's work)I was forced to get something else from the library. The result was that i read this computer showdown thriller. This is a good story, a \"page tuner\" as they say and my major objections to fall in a couple of \"small\" areas. One, why is the hero of a computer thriller always a crook? Is every gifted \"hacker type\" unable to keep fr I was on a Jeffery Deaver kick a few years ago and being unable to find an unread Lincoln Rhyme novel (one of which later ended my obsessive reading of Mr. Deaver's work)I was forced to get something else from the library. The result was that i read this computer showdown thriller. This is a good story, a \"page tuner\" as they say and my major objections to fall in a couple of \"small\" areas. One, why is the hero of a computer thriller always a crook? Is every gifted \"hacker type\" unable to keep from breaking the law? I mean, in real life I have no sympathy (not \"little sympathy\" but no sympathy) for people who think the rest of us exist to give them playthings and will gleefully have fun, fun, fun, digging through our lives and even ruining our lives...some times purely by accident. The second is simply some of the story elements that were a bit hackneyed or contrived (how many key boards did our hero break simply because he seemed unable to type without hitting the keyboard like it's a strong-man test at the carnival?). Other than this the book is readable and will probably be enjoyed by both \"computer people\" (though by now it's badly dated) and \"point and clickers\" (like me) alike. I enjoyed the book. ...more I'm labeling this under spoiler just in case. This book is... a gem, I must say. The binary chapters captivated my geekiness (ok, don't blame me for that weakness :P), the glossary helps in expanding my computer knowledge. However still this book is good for people who are interested in computer, hacking, and the internet because in my opinion, someone who is not much knowledgeable in the area might find a hard time following the story and picturing what are the characters (especially Gilette) are I'm labeling this under spoiler just in case. This book is... a gem, I must say. The binary chapters captivated my geekiness (ok, don't blame me for that weakness :P), the glossary helps in expanding my computer knowledge. However still this book is good for people who are interested in computer, hacking, and the internet because in my opinion, someone who is not much knowledgeable in the area might find a hard time following the story and picturing what are the characters (especially Gilette) are doing. I find it ironic (and creepy at the same time) that the first murdered victim shown in book is Lara Gibson, which is dubbed as a woman who really knows how to take care of herself in a big city. She knows how to turn down men's unwanted invitation(s) yet falls victim when Phate approached her using her own methods and tips meant for young women to protect themselves (eg. Don't take any offer from men in bars wanting to buy you a drink, a family man is a better companion than singles). ...more Where state of the art computer hackers download information onto floppy disks and are easily identified by their calloused fingertips from all that keyboard pounding. As for the internet, it\u2019s a ruinous addition for the socially inept. A narrative that is clich\u00e9d, contrived, with outdated technology and any lack of authenticity from the author. This book was ok, it was an easy read, mildly entertaining. It was a little predictable. It was a mystery based on internet crimes but some of the lingo felt old school so the book is a bit dated and sometimes I felt the author was over explaining the technical aspects. Chilling! Scary! Cybercrime! What machines can do?! Even though it was written a few years ago! It is good reading! The plot is good. I enjoyed reading it. The best suspense novel I have ever read... of course it helped that it's set where John and I have lived for many years. A good serial killer intriguer that centers around cracking and the blue nowhere (cyberspace). Great suspense, twists and turns. Very good book. Excellent read for every geek. A little bit outdated (published in 2001) but still a must. Deaver is best known in literary circles as a crime novelist but I recognized his name from the mostly forgettable movie that Hollywood made out of his book, \u201cThe Bone Collector\u201d that stared Denzel Washington and a young Angelina Jolie back in 1999. He is not normally associated with technical thrillers or cyber punk stories, but he turned his writing skills in this book to a manhunt type story where the serial killer the cops are looking for is also a world-class hacker. When the detectives rea Deaver is best known in literary circles as a crime novelist but I recognized his name from the mostly forgettable movie that Hollywood made out of his book, \u201cThe Bone Collector\u201d that stared Denzel Washington and a young Angelina Jolie back in 1999. He is not normally associated with technical thrillers or cyber punk stories, but he turned his writing skills in this book to a manhunt type story where the serial killer the cops are looking for is also a world-class hacker. When the detectives realize they have a serial killer hacker on the loose, they break another hacker out of jail temporarily to be their subject matter expert. What results is a hacker-on-hacker, social engineering blitzkrieg where the reader is never sure which way the story will turn. The story is set in the late 90s in and around Silicon Valley and Deaver does a good job setting just the right tone for the hacker and computer industry culture during that Internet Bubble period (1997 \u2013 2000) [6]. He even takes the time to provide little historic tidbits regarding the evolution of computing. The serial killer, phate \u2013 spelled with a \u201cph\u201d instead of an \u201cf\u201d because that is what hackers do, plans his killing to coincide with significant milestones in computing history: \u2022\tENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator And Computer): The first electronic general-purpose computer announced to the world in 1946 [7]. \u2022\tUnivac (UNIVersal Automatic Computer I): the first commercial computer produced for the US Census Bureau in March 1951 [8]. \u2022\tThe IBM PC (Personal Computer): Arguably the first affordable home computer for the masses that IBM launched in 1981. [9]. He also does a good job of aligning the hacking culture with the gaming culture of the time. During the 80s and 90s, it was always my observation that many of the same people that were involved in the hacking community were also involved in the gaming community. That relationship is not as true these days, but back then, there was a lot of overlap. You could usually count on the fact that if a hacker had any skill at all, he also spent some significant hours crawling through Multi-User Dungeons (MUDs); text based adventure games that are the precursor to World of Warcraft styled games of today [10]. It turns out that phate and the good-guy-but-on-loan-from-a-prison hacker, Wyatt Gillette (aka ValleyMan, aka renegade334) both logged significant hours in their MUD of choice called \u201cAccess.\u201d In this game, the main point was to sneak up on your opponents and get close enough to assassinate them; to get Access to them. phate decided that he needed to play Access in the real world and set off on a killing spree. Phate and Wyatt use a mix of real hacker and forensics tools --like Norton Commander [1], SATAN [4], restore(8) [3] and HyperTrace [2]\u2014and fake tools that sound genuine \u2013 like Vi-Scan 5.0, the FBI Forensic Detection Package and the DOD Partition and File Allocation Analyzer \u2013 to do battle with each other. Back in the day when I used to be technical, I routinely ran Norton Commander on my DOS (Disk Operating System) computers and SATAN on my UNIX networks. For a non-techie, Deaver does a great job of explaining what a computer BIOS is, why hackers and crackers of all sorts had thick calluses on their fingertips and how hackers stash their tools of the trade all over the Internet so that they can quickly grab them from any location in the world. His coup de grace though was his explanation of TrapDoor. TrapDoor is a fictionalized tool that phate develops to track his victims and enemies. phate essentially creates a man-in-the-middle attack by compromising many of the major Internet Service Provider BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) routers (like SPRINT, AT&T, Qwest and others) [5]. These are the routers that form the Internet\u2019s backbone by connecting the Internet Service Providers together. Once phate discovers the IP address of the victim\u2019s computer, he instructs his BOTNET of BGP routers to watch for traffic to and from that address. Once found, he redirects that traffic to his own servers for collection and then returns the traffic to the normal packet stream. The victim notices nothing because phate is not on the victim\u2019s computer. That would be a nice trick if a hacker figured out how to do it. In his endnotes, Deaver explains that TrapDoor is not a real tool and does not know if any hacker has subsequently built it nor does he name anybody who might have given him the idea for it. But, it seems unlikely that a crime novelist could develop that attack blueprint without talking to somebody who is at least thinking about how it might be done. The story itself is a page-turner as phate and Wyatt social engineer and hack each other while the body count rises. There is also a fairly decent love story (between Wyatt and his estranged wife), a nice father-son mentorship side story and enough twists and turns to keep the reader interested and excited. I recommend it. The man-hunt story line is good and, for the most part, Deaver gets the computing and hacking culture right. I put this square on the shelf with other novels about hackers that do not exaggerate the craft. Sources: [1] Citation: \u201cThe History and Development of Norton Commander,\u201d The Orthodox File Manager (OFM) Paradigm, Softpanorama, by Dr Nikolai Bezroukov http://www.softpanorama.org/OFM/Parad... [2]: Citation: \u201cHypertrace version 2.01,\u201d AnalogX. http://www.analogx.com/contents/downl... [3] Citation: \u201cRESTORE (8),\u201d NetBSD System Manager\u2019s Manual http://www.daemon-systems.org/man/res... [4] Citation: \u201cSATAN (Security Administrator Tool for Analyzing Networks),\u201d http://www.porcupine.org/satan/ [5] Citation: \u201cMajor Internet Backbone MAPs,\u201d http://navigators.com/isp.html [6] Citation: \u201cIncome Distribution and the Information Technology Bubble,\u201d by James K. Galbraith and Travis Hale, LBJ School of Public Affairs, The University of Texas at Austin, Working Paper 27, January 14, 2004. http://utip.gov.utexas.edu/papers/uti... [7] Citation: \u201cThe ENIAC Story,\u201d by Martin H. Weik, Ordnance Ballistic Research Laboratories, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD, 1961 http://ftp.arl.mil/~mike/comphist/eni... [8] Citation: \u201c50th anniversary of the UNIVAC I,\u201d by CNNTech, June 14, 2001. http://articles.cnn.com/2001-06-14/te... [9] Citation: \u201cPhilip Donald Estridge,\u201d The History of Computing Project http://www.thocp.net/biographies/estr... [10] Citation: \u201cA Brief (and very Incomplete) History of MUDs,\u201d in rec.games.muds, by Bill Wisner, September 29, 1990. ...more Ko hi\u1ec3u sao \u0111\u1ecdc xong th\u1ea5y h\u01a1i h\u1ee5t h\u1eabng. Th\u1ea5y c\u00f3 ch\u00fat gi\u1ea3 t\u01b0\u1edfng. Ch\u1eafc ko h\u1ee3p l\u1eafm v\u1edbi th\u1ec3 lo\u1ea1i an ninh m\u1ea1ng Truy\u1ec7n \u0111\u1ecdc logic, \u0111\u1ecdc li\u00ean t\u1ee5c lun. N l\u1ea1i ko c\u00f3 cao tr\u00e0o l\u00e9m. N ch\u1eafc n\u00f3 hay ho, ko th\u00ec sao \u0111\u1ecdc ng\u1ea5u nghi\u1ebfn th\u1ebf dc L\u00e2u l\u00e9m m\u1edbi \u0111\u1ecdc 1 m\u1ea1ch \u0111\u01b0\u1ee3c quy\u1ec3n s\u00e1ch nhi\u1ec1u trang nh\u01b0 v\u1eady Loved this - suspenseful because I can see this really happening in our society today. I love the way Jeffery Deaver writes. He has very interesting characters, plot twists and he goes in to great detail about the story behind the story, in other words, in the Blue Nowhere I learned about the dark side of the information age. How using a computer for everyday purposes can leave you vulnerable to hackers who are lurking in the blue nowhere. That this information can be used for evil purposes. I like the way Mr. Deaver uses a character, Gillette, in this case to teach you how hacker I love the way Jeffery Deaver writes. He has very interesting characters, plot twists and he goes in to great detail about the story behind the story, in other words, in the Blue Nowhere I learned about the dark side of the information age. How using a computer for everyday purposes can leave you vulnerable to hackers who are lurking in the blue nowhere. That this information can be used for evil purposes. I like the way Mr. Deaver uses a character, Gillette, in this case to teach you how hackers work, while still carrying on the storyline, hunting for a brilliant wizard/killer. It is also a little scary, knowing this was going on in the early 2000's and how far it has prgressed to today. Russian, Chinese hacking, etc. ...more 18 years later this is still a great read! My only wish is he would write another with the same characters. This time they could solve the Russian hacking! The characters in this one make for a pretty exciting story, but I was hoping for something more based on the true Blue Nowhere. This is your typical thriller murder mystery novel with a few high-tech terms thrown in there every now and again. To me it was thoroughly disappointing. And the story was kinda rediculous, especially towards the end of the book.<---C>Jeffery Deaver</---C>", "Title": "The Blue Nowhere"},
