{"Comments": "\u201cThey may use my body but my mind is free.<---F> In my mind I escape</---F>.\u201d ----Gladys Lawson,<---M> an author</---M>, a microbiologist in pathology management and also volunteers as an inspirational mentor. <---A>Lola Smirnova</---A>, an Ukrainian author, pens her debut book, <+++>Twisted</+++> that revolves around the horrifying truth and pain behind flesh trade. Written from her own experience, Smirnova spins her story in such a way that it'll grip you with the vivid and raw details about the sex trade. Synopsis: Back in the 90\u2019s, the cor \u201cThey may use my body but my mind is free. In my mind I escape.\u201d ----Gladys Lawson, an author, a microbiologist in pathology management and also volunteers as an inspirational mentor. Lola Smirnova, an Ukrainian author, pens her debut book, <+++>Twisted</+++> that revolves around the horrifying truth and pain behind flesh trade. Written from her own experience, Smirnova spins her story in such a way that it'll grip you with the vivid and raw details about the sex trade. Synopsis: Back in the 90\u2019s, the corrupt post-Soviet Ukraine with its faltering economy, is thrown into a devastating depression. Times are hard. Opportunities are scarce. Three eager young sisters \u2013 Natalia, Lena and Julia - dream of a better life and weigh their options: do they stay and struggle like their parents, or join scores of their compatriots in the sex trade in glittering western European cities, who earn in a night what they\u2019d take several months to earn at home? Naive and tempted by the allure of 'quick' money, the girls set off on an adventure that changes their lives forever... For sensible, resilient and calculating Lena and Natalia, the transition to the underworld of Luxembourg\u2019s deceptive champagne bars is eye-opening, but smooth. But for fragile, brittle Julia, haunted by a childhood assault, the change is more than just vocational. Struggling to adapt, she turns to alcohol and drugs, exposing herself to increasing danger and depravity; and, ultimately, betrayal, when a deceitful client, who claims to love her, drugs her and cleans her out. Despite her sisters\u2019 best efforts to intervene, she finds herself in Istanbul \u2013 culturally a world apart \u2013 in an attempt to make back the money and self-respect she\u2019s lost. Vulnerable without the protection of Luxembourg\u2019s champagne bars, she descends into a hell of drugs and high-risk sex until, at the novel\u2019s terrible climax, a kidnapping, brutal assault and one-sided justice system lead to her imprisonment and a threat of deportation. How will Natalia and Lena save Julia? This story is a complete eye-opener, in short, the details are so intricate that you are bound to call it explicit, but that's the truth what Smirnova has written. Based on real-life experiences, the author follows the journey of a young and naive Ukrainian girl, Julia and her elder sisters, Natalia and Lena, who leave their poverty-stricken life to lead a comfortable lifestyle by joining the sex trade. But the greed for easy money lures Julia into the deepest, darkest part of this trade where she finally stumbles upon and where only drug use can take her away from the filthy and disgusting lifestyle that she led. This book is like a window to the back-stage or behind-the-scenes activities in flesh trade in the European part of the world. Through Julia, we see the grim and horrifying activities happening in the life of a professional prostitute just for a few quids. Moreover, her living condition to the her lifestyle to her demeanor and those around her, especially agents, are filthy and poor. In short, the prostitutes are treated like slaves by the sex-starved men and whatever money they earn, they spend it on drugs and other harmful intoxicants. The writing is articulate with a fast moving pace. The coarse and harsh words are used to express the emotions. The author have strikingly depicted the painful and sad emotions in her plot, thus making us contemplate with the storyline. Some sex-scenes are way too graphic, explicit and vulgar, but unfortunately, that author have portrayed the hard-core truth behind this business with her book. The narration is so edgy and free-flowing, that it keeps us hooked on to the storyline. But what I liked the most is the way the author have put up each piece of this sad and shocking story with proper emotion and depth. Since this is a trilogy, I'm definitely waiting to read the second book in the series, which I believe will be equally captivating to read and see. Verdict: A must-read book for every women but for a mature audience. Courtesy: Thanks to Kelsey from Book Publicity Services for a review copy of this book. ...more As a book reviewer specializing in the BDSM erotica genre, it\u2019s rare for me to be asked to read and review a book that is outside my area of expertise. Such is the case for \u201cTwisted\u201d by Lola Smirnova, a fascinating and depressing look into the eastern European sex trade, with a healthy dose of \u201cwhy drugs are bad for you.\u201d For years I\u2019ve been an advocate of legalized prostitution, working from the premise that by legalizing the trade, the United States would take the power and money behind prosti As a book reviewer specializing in the BDSM erotica genre, it\u2019s rare for me to be asked to read and review a book that is outside my area of expertise. Such is the case for \u201cTwisted\u201d by Lola Smirnova, a fascinating and depressing look into the eastern European sex trade, with a healthy dose of \u201cwhy drugs are bad for you.\u201d For years I\u2019ve been an advocate of legalized prostitution, working from the premise that by legalizing the trade, the United States would take the power and money behind prostitution out of the hands of organized crime and put it toward the women actually engaged in the trade. Legalization would allow government to generate revenue from the business, would stabilize the trade for licensing, medical examinations, and verification that the women involved weren\u2019t being intimidated or controlled via drugs or violence. It would create environments where the women are respected and cared for, rather than abused. I\u2019ve always thought that legalized prostitution would decrease the amount of human trafficking and child abuse as crime syndicates were forced to other avenues to generate their revenue. And as terrifying as it sounds, \u201cTwisted\u201d serves as a primer to demonstrate that mafia lords and their crime syndicates will scheme to get their money in any way possible. Smirnova\u2019s story, which is no doubt based upon true life experiences, follows a young Ukrainian girl named Julia, whose family is struck with poverty after the fall of the Soviet Union. Her two older sisters leave home and become sex workers, glossing over the more distasteful aspects of their occupation, planting the seeds of both curiosity and greed in young Julia. She eventually finds the lure of easy money too beguiling and begins her journey into the darker aspects of drug abuse, drunken stupors, and the horrid and loveless life of a sex-for-sale prostitute. She is subjected to all manner of abuses, from \u201cdebts\u201d incurred to an \u201cagent\u201d supposedly responsible for finding her a club to work at, to the cramped and barely livable spaces the girls are given, to the non-stop drinking and drug use ideology that keep the girls compliant. This is not a book of erotica in any sense of the word. In fact, the few \u201csex\u201d scenes described are mostly so disgusting and horrid that few would find them appealing, an attitude echoed by Julia through the tale. And yet her story becomes compelling, like a Dickensian tale where only more pain and suffering is brought down upon the main character\u2019s head, a sort of morality play where the reader shouts at the unfortunate soul and says \u201cgood Lord! How can you be that stupid?\u201d Reading the tale of Julia creates an imperative need to find out how it ends. Is there a happy ending? Thank God there is. The writing itself is well done, surprising for someone for whom English is probably a second language. Written in first person mode, in present tense, the author does a good job in establishing characters, setting, and the connection between the reader and the story. More journal than formative plot, \u201cTwisted\u201d encapsulates the reader and literally drags them along through the drug and booze soaked life of a girl for whom circumstances and bad choices have created something that can only be described as a nightmare. If nothing else, \u201cTwisted\u201d serves as a warning to other young woman who might be tempted by the flush of \u201ceasy\u201d money presented by soliciting themselves. Throughout the story Julia is constantly forced into actions she neither desires, nor wants; is frequently subjected to almost lethal (<---B>if not stupid</---B>) levels of intoxicants, and allows others to use her in practically every manner. If there were a \u201chow not to do this\u201d manual, this would be it. I suppose the saddest aspect of Julia\u2019s life is that sex itself is relegated into something mundane or even disgusting. As an erotica author myself, I was almost offended at the demeaning way the act of sex is treated in \u201cTwisted,\u201d yet I know that the reality is exactly as Ms. Smirnova has described. It is a conceit amongst men that prostitutes \u201cenjoy it,\u201d that they are nothing more than walking sex dolls, constantly horny, always willing to \u201cput out,\u201d and that the money is only to abate the unattractive traits or desires of their clients. Julia\u2019s experience exposes that conceit and reminds us that the act of sex, even between two strangers, is not just a physical exertion with a hedonistic ending, but an emotional one as well. For Julia, each client damaged her psyche just a little more and she turned to drugs and booze to cope. Hopefully \"Twisted\" will cause every male who frequents \"houses of ill repute\" to treat these women with a modicum of respect. In summary, \"Twisted\" is an amazing book that is well written and provocative, but despite it's appetizing cover and the teaser, can not be considered erotica in any sense of the word. I give \"Twisted\" a strong 8 out of 10, even though I generally rank for the eroticism of a story. This book is still a worthwhile read. ...more Thanks to the publisher, author and NetGalley for a copy of the book. I'm not really sure what to make of this one. Reading the blurb got me interested so I went for it. But??? Well??? I'm just not sure, because I'm not sure what it's meant to be or what the point of the story was. If anything it's left me feeling quite perplexed about it all. In a nutshell, the book is about three sisters from the Ukraine who go to Luxembourg initially to work as prostitutes essentially. Coming from a hard, poor Thanks to the publisher, author and NetGalley for a copy of the book. I'm not really sure what to make of this one. Reading the blurb got me interested so I went for it. But??? Well??? I'm just not sure, because I'm not sure what it's meant to be or what the point of the story was. If anything it's left me feeling quite perplexed about it all. In a nutshell, the book is about three sisters from the Ukraine who go to Luxembourg initially to work as prostitutes essentially. Coming from a hard, poor background, the sisters quickly realise that working this way is for more beneficial economically than just having ordinary professions. It's a gritty look into a world of prostitution and drug taking for sure and is quite explicit but not in an erotic, tantalising way, more just an observational look at what is a very risky, not glamorous sex trade that is not an easy option. Told in the first person from one of the sister's point of view this book could be served as a warning to young girls who are perhaps thinking of going down this road. This for me could really be only the reason for writing this book because I can't see what other purpose it serves. It's written fairly well, there are some downright horrible sex scenes in it. I mean seriously, this book does not hold back and packs some serious punches. I'm not easily shocked but if you're easily offended steer well clear. All in all it was an insightful view and if it piques your interest then it's worth a look for that. ...more This copy kindly provided by NetGalley on behalf of the publisher I really don't know what I think about this one. There were parts (smaller stories within the larger one) that I really liked, while others I just didn't get at all, & some of it was almost pointless... To start off I didn't really know what I was getting myself into. As began I thought it was going to be a tale of great things coming from a \"doing whatever needs to be done\" kind of situation. Then I thought it was going to be This copy kindly provided by NetGalley on behalf of the publisher I really don't know what I think about this one. There were parts (smaller stories within the larger one) that I really liked, while others I just didn't get at all, & some of it was almost pointless... To start off I didn't really know what I was getting myself into. As began I thought it was going to be a tale of great things coming from a \"doing whatever needs to be done\" kind of situation. Then I thought it was going to be a story of proving the haters wrong, but that turned into me thinking it was a cautionary tale, with the main character documenting her self destruction & ultimate demise. Ultimately (for me) it turned out to be a \"some people will never learn\" story. Without naming anyone & potentially spoiling the read for anyone else, I will add that some people do learn, but others will continue to believe \"it won't happen to me\" until it actually does. FYI - this isn't erotic or sexy, not overly graphic, and the language is fairly modest. However some of the acts/scenarios that unfold throughout the story are not at all pleasant & leave you going \"EWW!\", all whilst maintaining a detachment & modesty about the whole thing. ...more Wow. This book is one hell of a read, from start to finish. Based on true events, Twisted is a book about three sisters navigating life in the sex trade. Going into this book, I wasn't too sure what to expect. Whatever I had been expecting, however, didn't prepare me for my reading. This book is intense. It's dark and gritty and crass- definitely not for the faint of heart. The realism is a striking, and often a hard to swallow one. It's no surprise to my regular blog readers that I often read er Wow. This book is one hell of a read, from start to finish. Based on true events, Twisted is a book about three sisters navigating life in the sex trade. Going into this book, I wasn't too sure what to expect. Whatever I had been expecting, however, didn't prepare me for my reading. This book is intense. It's dark and gritty and crass- definitely not for the faint of heart. The realism is a striking, and often a hard to swallow one. It's no surprise to my regular blog readers that I often read erotica and sex positive literature. However, that is NOT what this book is about. Sex is in no way romanticized or made to be glamorous. It is a harsh, manipulative, and necessary part of life that fuels a dark life. Add in the seedy nightlife underground, drugs, and alcohol, and this gets all the more real. That's exactly why this book has such a disturbing undertone: this is something that has and is really happening. Twisted is gripping in an almost perverse way, and the writing itself is really detailed and well done. The thriller/suspense aspect has a sort of Girl with the Dragon Tattoo vibe to it, which I liked since that's one of my favorite books. I was also impressed since (it is my knowledge- correct me if I'm wrong) English is not Smirnova's first language. You wouldn't be able to tell by reading this. I also appreciated that non-English words were in Italics, helping the reader know its meaning by context. Unrelated to the story itself, I really like the cover of this book. I think it's a good hint of what's inside, and I think it's pretty and quite striking. This book is an eye opener, and is not one to be taken lightly. That said, it is definitely one worth reading. Be warned that this book is NOT for those under age 18: there is sex, violence, drugs/alcohol, and profanity aplenty. Also be warned that if you're like me, you won't be able to read this in one go- it got so intense that I had to take a breather or two. This is the first book by Lola Smirnova and with writings like this, I'm sure it won't be her last. Thank you to Book Publicity Services for my copy in exchange for my honest review. This review can also be found on my blog, Bitches n Prose . ...more I'm not sure on what \"shelf\" to put this book. The story is sometimes shocking, graphic, repulsing and disgusting - but I can't feel sorry for these three girls. They made their choice. They chose this profession willingly because of the money and they earned lots of money. The books shows to some extend the perversity of society but it implies that if you stay away from drugs and too much alcohol, get a nice contract and don't fall in love with any client everything is fine and you'll get rich. *I won Twisted in a competition* I can\u2019t believe I won Twisted approximately a year ago, and never had the chance to read it then. Before you go thinking it was due to the fact that it was one of those books one had to gently get into, either because of the provoking cover, or the book\u2019s content, you\u2019d be wrong. In fact, the first time I saw this cover and read the blurb, I was more than interested. Hence me entering to win a copy, not so? Whilst still on holiday at the beginning of this year, it *I won Twisted in a competition* I can\u2019t believe I won Twisted approximately a year ago, and never had the chance to read it then. Before you go thinking it was due to the fact that it was one of those books one had to gently get into, either because of the provoking cover, or the book\u2019s content, you\u2019d be wrong. In fact, the first time I saw this cover and read the blurb, I was more than interested. Hence me entering to win a copy, not so? Whilst still on holiday at the beginning of this year, it was the perfect time to read something again. The very first title that popped into my head was Twisted. So, I grabbed it off my bookshelf and sat down, with no expectations whatsoever; meaning, I wasn't stressed over the fact that I had to like it as I was reviewing it for the author, or that despite the cover and blurb intriguing me, I would hate it. There\u2019s nothing worse than starting a book and from the first page alone, I know I\u2019m not going to like it. What was my immediate thought when I started Twisted? I was blown away within the first couple of pages. The way I was expertly pulled into the story immediately grabbed my attention. I did have one expectation, and that was that it would be an erotic story. It\u2019s anything but, and shouldn\u2019t be classified as such. It\u2019s also in first person, which I\u2019ve mentioned quite a number of times is not my favourite, with the exception of a handful of authors who are masters at this POV. Ms. Smirnova is now another. It\u2019s not a lengthy book and can be read in one sitting, but I didn\u2019t for the simple fact that I was truly invested in the lives of these young ladies, and when a story grips me right off the bat, I prefer to savour every single word. I won\u2019t go into details of where this book takes place, as the blurb is self-explanatory. This a true to life story, penned by the exceptionally talented Lola Smirnova. Being based on real life events, the insight we are offered within Twisted\u2019s pages was beyond enlightening. What I thought I knew in regards to the sex trade, sex trade workers and/or prostitutes as they are more often than not called, was apparently and obviously nothing. What we think we know should be tripled. To say I was shocked in certain paragraphs is putting it mildly. To be honest, at least one or two made me physically ill. This is truly not for the faint-hearted, but rather for adults who are open-minded\u2015as I am\u2015and are able to ingest stories and situations that pull no punches. I was quite horrified as to how far the men who habitually visit these kinds of establishments dare go. And I was taken aback at how some of the women, against their better judgement, eventually acquiesce to their demands. Sometimes, to their detriment. As what happened with the main character, Julia. Being involved in this trade, it\u2019s inevitable that drugs come into play, with dire consequences often times. Again, Julia succumbed. I loved the fact that Twisted wasn\u2019t only in Julia\u2019s voice, but was interspersed with tales, e-mails and other snippets from both her older sister, Natalia, and her middle sister, Lena. There was also this interesting situation where Julia would be performing whatever act was required of her, yet amazingly enough she\u2019d be thinking about a certain someone romantically. I guess that no matter the situation, we all want what seems to be within our grasp at one point or another; the all-consuming love affair. To be loved for who we are, despite what we do. I hoped, right along with Julia, that this would be her way out. It\u2019s sad when someone builds up hope, to then not only have it crushed underfoot like a pesky bug, but made to feel like they\u2019ve been ripped to shreds, used and abused, and then thrown away like garbage. For a debut novel it was riveting, and for a first time author, Ms. Smirnova is one of not many that manage to get it right the first time around. Now that, for me, is what I call talent. The characters were finely tuned and fleshed out, the pace of the story was just perfect, and there was not one single bit of this book that made me feel like it was dragging in order to fill up space. Indeed, it was anything but. Ms. Smirnova told her story as she wanted to tell it, precisely, accurately and exactly how it should have been told. No frills, no fuss, and no holding back on cussing. It was perfect! To say I look forward to the second book is an understatement. Craved is on my top-of-the-list-to-read books. In the end? I cried. It\u2019s how much these ladies and story got to me. Shocking? Without a doubt. Raw? Definitely. Explicit? Damn straight. Funny? Oh, yeah. Never sentimental? No. Don\u2019t agree. Or I wouldn\u2019t have cried. A 2015 favourite read. 5 STARS ...more A quick look at the cover of Twisted, one may draw the conclusion that it is a highly provocative erotica book. On the contrary, it does not fit that genre at all. Twisted is the raw and unsettling story about a young woman's experience in the sex trade. Amid the overwhelming premise of prostitution, Smirnova's eye-opening debut novel is filled with accounts of human tragedy. Penned in first person, Smirnova's narrative relays the story of Julia Lazar, who leaves her post-Soviet and depressed soc A quick look at the cover of Twisted, one may draw the conclusion that it is a highly provocative erotica book. On the contrary, it does not fit that genre at all. Twisted is the raw and unsettling story about a young woman's experience in the sex trade. Amid the overwhelming premise of prostitution, Smirnova's eye-opening debut novel is filled with accounts of human tragedy. Penned in first person, Smirnova's narrative relays the story of Julia Lazar, who leaves her post-Soviet and depressed socioeconomic Ukraine for a better life with better pay. She is not alone, though, since her two sisters are in the same dire straits. The three siblings venture over to Luxembourg, where they get involved in sex-oriented establishments. When Julia decides, against her sisters' wishes, to head out to Istanbul, she learns first hand that business dealings over there are not quite the \"free-rider's paradise\" she expects. Based on her background in Ukraine and her personal work experience in the adult entertainment industry, rising author Smirnova has crafted a gripping story that takes readers into the mind of a women who is grappling with why she is \"morally comfortable with what she's doing.\" Smirnova includes a number of literary tools to keep her narrative constantly moving. On the top of that list of tools is her use of paradox. A good example is Julia's racing and often disturbing thoughts that run concurrent to the salacious services she offers to a host of sleazy characters. Smirnova also keeps her chapters short and alternates them between Julia's clients, love life, and interactions with her sisters. Julia is indeed a dynamic character. She is definitely conflicted. Her love/hate job is lucrative, but at what price? Although she appears to have a hardened personality, Julia definitely has a human side. For example, Julia may not admit that she longs for real love in her life, especially to her middle sister who fantasizes the perfect home life. Nonetheless, she experiences emotional pain when her lovers abandon her. Smirnova also contrasts Julia's work life with the love between her sisters. Juxtaposing horrific scenes with sisterly emails that are filled with love and concern for Julia's well being is nothing less than poignant. Twisted is not an easy read and not intended for the faint of heart. While it ends with a cliffhanger, readers can look forward to its sequel, which Smirnova is currently working on. In the meantime, Smirnova hopes that Twisted will raise awareness to the problems of the sex industry. \u201cVictims are usually inexperienced young women, who suffer, dream and love in the same way as anyone\u2019s girlfriend, sister or daughter. I wanted the reader to realize that these working girls are humans.\u201d Kudos to Smirnova for an outstanding job achieving that goal! Anita Lock, reviewer for Pacific Book Review ...more Twisted is honest to the point that it is haunting. From the first page, Smirnova captured my attention, creating vivid scenes that chilled me to my bones. This book exposes a side of the European sex trade that those involved try to keep under wraps and takes the reader on a graphic journey through Smirnova's nightmares. Twisted gives us a look into the life of a sex worker, showing us the dangers they face on a daily basis and giving us the insight of a former victim of this industry. Smirnova Twisted is honest to the point that it is haunting. From the first page, Smirnova captured my attention, creating vivid scenes that chilled me to my bones. This book exposes a side of the European sex trade that those involved try to keep under wraps and takes the reader on a graphic journey through Smirnova's nightmares. Twisted gives us a look into the life of a sex worker, showing us the dangers they face on a daily basis and giving us the insight of a former victim of this industry. Smirnova manages to describe horrific events with a clear mind and a clear commentary that many who have seen this world firsthand cannot achieve. She puts the reader in Julia's shoes, making us feel her discomfort and experience her emotions as she does, in such a raw piece of fiction that reads like a memoir. Though the story is fascinating and intriguing, what kept me turning the pages was Smirnova's grasp of language. She has a way of drawing a scene that is uninhibited and effortless, as if the image in her brain was pasted directly on the page. I highly recommend this book, though it is not for the faint of heart nor for young readers. Twisted is disturbing and heavily features sex, violence and cursing. However, if you do decide to pick this book up, I guarantee you will not be able to set it down until you have finished. Though it may be fiction, the sex trade is very real, and the insight that Smirnova gives us may allow us to better understand such a gruesome industry. *I received a complimentary copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more When I was first approached by Book Publicity Services to see if I would be interested in reviewing this book, I was immediately intrigued by the premise. Not long previously I had attempted and failed to read three other New Adult titles where the MC was either selling her virginity or entering into a mistress situation for money. In all three cases, I had to abandon the books because the writing was awful and absolutely nothing about them rang even remotely true. With \"Twisted\", I thought fina When I was first approached by Book Publicity Services to see if I would be interested in reviewing this book, I was immediately intrigued by the premise. Not long previously I had attempted and failed to read three other New Adult titles where the MC was either selling her virginity or entering into a mistress situation for money. In all three cases, I had to abandon the books because the writing was awful and absolutely nothing about them rang even remotely true. With \"Twisted\", I thought finally I'd be reading an authentic account of prostitution from someone who has been there and knows what they're talking about. And holy crap, that's exactly what I got! This book is absolutely not for the faint of heart. It took me quite a long time to read it because I found I needed to take frequent breaks. My heart broke over and over again for Julia, and even though \"Twisted\" is fictional, I can imagine many girls get into situations like Julia did in real life every day. That is just so scary, but truly eye opening. I'm glad this book has been written and is available for anyone wanting to read a more realistic portrayal of prostitution. I'm not sure whether other readers will appreciate \"Twisted\", but I really hope they will, as long as they heed the warning on the front cover. As for me, I am glad I read it, but I'm not sure I have it in me to finish the trilogy. We'll see, I'm not ruling it out, but for now, \"Twisted\" will remain an intense yet unforgettable read for me. ...more Wow! Not sure what to say after reading Twisted! It is sad to know that this book is based off of a true scenario. It is a good book full of prostitution, drug & alcohol abuse and who can blame them. I would want to be on something to have to live the life that Lena, Julia (aka Jul's) & Natalia do. Although, Jul's is the one who is addicted. There was a lot of Taboo sex going on and gross sex.... Some of it was hard to read and Jul's definitely was uncomfortable with the Taboo & gross Wow! Not sure what to say after reading Twisted! It is sad to know that this book is based off of a true scenario. It is a good book full of prostitution, drug & alcohol abuse and who can blame them. I would want to be on something to have to live the life that Lena, Julia (aka Jul's) & Natalia do. Although, Jul's is the one who is addicted. There was a lot of Taboo sex going on and gross sex.... Some of it was hard to read and Jul's definitely was uncomfortable with the Taboo & gross stuff. Oh and their are some sick individuals out there. Again another reason to be on drugs. I liked the book it was definitely well written and a tough subject to cover. This is the first book in a trilogy the second book is due out soon and I will definitely read it because it was an addicting read and I just had to keep reading their story. I read this story in less than 1 day because I couldn't put the book down. This ARC was received for an honest review. I found this book difficult to rate because it really was well written and it was a tough subject matter to read about. Twisted needs a WARNING label! This is about rape, abuse (physical & sexual abuse, drugs & alcohol) Consensual & Non consensual sex. ...more Twisted automatically captures your attention as she brings you into the world of sex slavery. Unable to stop reading, you automatically feel captured by the woman's tumultuous experience. Be warned, it is not for the faint of heart. As three young sisters strive to make their lives better, they endure the tribulations of the sex trade industry. Lola Smirnova offers an uncut peek into this world. As you read, you can't help but feel you are there with the author, in those rooms, observing like a Twisted automatically captures your attention as she brings you into the world of sex slavery. Unable to stop reading, you automatically feel captured by the woman's tumultuous experience. Be warned, it is not for the faint of heart. As three young sisters strive to make their lives better, they endure the tribulations of the sex trade industry. Lola Smirnova offers an uncut peek into this world. As you read, you can't help but feel you are there with the author, in those rooms, observing like a fly on the wall. You feel what she feels, you see what she sees. It is an invaluable read. ...more *** Copy provided for an honest review *** THIS is what I want when I ask for a suspense filled thriller!! It's sick and \"twisted\" and deep and dark and disgusting and I really enjoyed it. It lost a start because I felt it was trying to garner sympathy for the girls, when there is none. They chose this life for money..... so yano.... tough luck! but aside form that this was a great read, enough drama to make me wanna turn the page and enough seedy stuff to make me nervous of turning the page. Only *** Copy provided for an honest review *** THIS is what I want when I ask for a suspense filled thriller!! It's sick and \"twisted\" and deep and dark and disgusting and I really enjoyed it. It lost a start because I felt it was trying to garner sympathy for the girls, when there is none. They chose this life for money..... so yano.... tough luck! but aside form that this was a great read, enough drama to make me wanna turn the page and enough seedy stuff to make me nervous of turning the page. Only thing I would say is edit that blurb. WAAAYYYYY too much info in there. ...more Eye opening tale. This book is for sure a eye opener. Based around three sisters and their travel and work in the sex trade. It shows a lesser than \"desirable\" lifestyle and highlights the side no one wants to admit really happens. This book has some dark features I'm intrigued to see where craved will take me and if the girls will again relocate after a tip off from a \"friend\". You will not regret buying Twisted. More than the sordid images and violently perverse incidents, Lola Smirnova\u2019s socioeconomic justification and the moral, ethical and personal dilemmas that ensue from a life in the sex trade will linger in the reader\u2019s mind long after reading. However, reading Twisted is like driving through the red light district on a tour bus: it is a titillating, voyeuristic, winding ride that shows us all the points of interest, but it rarely shows more than a two-dimension You will not regret buying Twisted. More than the sordid images and violently perverse incidents, Lola Smirnova\u2019s socioeconomic justification and the moral, ethical and personal dilemmas that ensue from a life in the sex trade will linger in the reader\u2019s mind long after reading. However, reading Twisted is like driving through the red light district on a tour bus: it is a titillating, voyeuristic, winding ride that shows us all the points of interest, but it rarely shows more than a two-dimensional view of the fascinating characters, places and incidents crammed into the tour. And that\u2019s a shame, because, as a former sex trade worker, Lola Smirnova has a lot to say. Twisted is not just a diary of her search for money, romance and big dreams, peppered with asshole-puckering, soul-crushing tales about the evils (or at least, perversions) that men do. It is also experiential journalism, giving the reader a peephole into post-Soviet Ukraine, post-Millenium Europe and the economic, emotional and social effects on three eyes-wide-shut sisters. It could be that Smirnova has, in fact, too much to say. She covers a lot of ground, but blunts the impact of her most dramatic scenes by moving quickly to another scene \u2013 sacrificing depth for the sake of distance. As a result, the reader is left knowing the sequence of events, but without feeling truly invested in any of them. Twisted is not exploratory enough to work as nonfiction and not focused enough to work as fiction. (Writing what appears to be a very personal memoir as thinly veiled fiction seems an unwarranted choice). The book does not lack for raw material (emphasis on \u201craw\u201d) -- Lola, sorry, Julia, pinballs her way in and out of enough trouble for at least four novels. Instead, Smirnova seems determined to make Twisted into one monstrously epic tale. It is a credit to her life and her material that she almost succeeds. One can\u2019t help but root for the reckless Julia and keep turning pages, fueled by the hope she will extract herself from the sex trade life before it\u2019s too late. But, at some point, there is too much that we want to see and the scenes get too random, repetitive or nondescript. We end one chapter with Julia and Natalia in full argy-bargy about Julia joining her sisters in the Luxembourg sex trade; the next chapter opens with Julia and her sisters already in Luxembourg and the simple and unsatisfying explanation, \u201cNatalia could not stop me.\u201d For all the description of the restrictive and particular rules of the sex cabarets, we never get more than a vague description of the various owners who clearly played a large role in Julia\u2019s life. Most disappointingly, the parade of incidents sheds little light on Julia\u2019s emotional journey. We watch her body move from client to client and from Luxembourg to Istanbul, but, without giving us an emotional buy-in, the scenes become repetitive. Twisted is loaded with worthy stories \u2013 stories we want to hear, lessons we want to learn and moments we want to feel. It is an epic novel waiting to happen. Too bad it is still a draft or two away. As Twisted is the first of a trilogy, the hope here is that the next two installments will deliver. I will definitely buy them to find out. Because even when falling short of expectations, Smirnova has stories too important, fascinating and dramatic to miss out on. ...more Well that was...twisted. Yup, I think this book got its name right. This is a New Adult book in my opinion, but it is certainly not a romance, and not even what I would consider erotica. There is sex \u2014 lots of sex \u2014 but it's not written in a way that's supposed to turn you on. Twisted is much more of a clinical documentation of what Eastern European prostitution is (or was?) really like . I actually think that this book reads almost like nonfiction at times, but that makes sence because I think I Well that was...twisted. Yup, I think this book got its name right. This is a New Adult book in my opinion, but it is certainly not a romance, and not even what I would consider erotica. There is sex \u2014 lots of sex \u2014 but it's not written in a way that's supposed to turn you on. Twisted is much more of a clinical documentation of what Eastern European prostitution is (or was?) really like . I actually think that this book reads almost like nonfiction at times, but that makes sence because I think I heard somewhere that its apparently based on the author's own personal experiences. Twisted is a haunting, brutally honest depiction of prostitution, and different from every book I've ever read. I think that, as women, we've all had that passing thought of, \"Oh fuck it, I'll just be a whore!\" The sex industry is known for its ability to provide high-paying jobs for women (and men) and, sometimes after a rough day, it almost seems like it might be a better option than the whole 9-5 thing. I'll admit that I've definitely had this thought before! And even a little bit of morbid curiosity about what it would be like to sell my body for money. But...after reading Twisted ...the tiny part of me that always considered prostitution as potential \"Plan B\" (or more like Plan J) is now officially gone. This book is so personal, so truthful, so raw and disgusting in its openness about the lifestyle of a whore that I will officially never consider it as even the tiniest little option ever again. I could never have done the things that Julia is either forced to or makes herself do in Twisted . Her willpower to succeed as a prostitute just goes to show you how awful the situation must've been back at home. As much as I wanted to sometimes slap Julia upside the head, I also was awed by her and had trouble not admiring her bravery and determination . Trust me when I tell you, though, that this book is not a joyful tale of a courageous prostitute who travels abroad and pushes back her pride in order to single-handedly yank her family out of monetary depression. No. This is a fucked-up story with barely a glimmer of happy ending that will make you want to cry, kill people, and just wallow in misery. Yet, I'm kind of excited for the next book?! Yes, Twisted is one of the most horrifying books I've ever read. But I became extremely attached to the characters, especially Julia, and I can't help but hope that there might eventually be a less-awful future in store for this family. I didn't realize going into this book that it was the first in a series, but after having finished Book One, I'm really excited to get my hands on more from this author. Although \"excited\" isn't really the right word for it when it comes to this story! I applaud Smirnova for having the guts to publish something so authentic and just...incredible. You might not have heard of this book yet, but if my review has even remotely interested you, definitely give it a chance! Twisted is certainly not for the weak of heart, but if you can grimace through the tough scenes, the payoff in its well-written prose, addicting pace, and nonfiction-like realism is beyond worth it . ...more Short, but not sweet, Twisted by Lola Smirnova takes us into the world of human trafficking. Whether the author meant to take us along on this journey is a moot point as we find ourselves in Luxembourg City where three sisters work as \"entertainers\" in a local Cabaret, encouraging the purchase of cheap drinks for expensive prices in exchange for their favors. The more the customer spends, the bigger the favor. After a six month stint, they bring the money home to help support their family since Short, but not sweet, Twisted by Lola Smirnova takes us into the world of human trafficking. Whether the author meant to take us along on this journey is a moot point as we find ourselves in Luxembourg City where three sisters work as \"entertainers\" in a local Cabaret, encouraging the purchase of cheap drinks for expensive prices in exchange for their favors. The more the customer spends, the bigger the favor. After a six month stint, they bring the money home to help support their family since poverty, brought about by the collapse of the Soviet Union, is a way of life in 1990s Ukraine where industries have shut down leaving even college graduates starving. Their parents look the other way at their \"waitress\" daughters with their pockets full of cash. After all, what mother or father will admit that their daughter is a whore? While the reader might argue that prostitution is a choice, I would counter that the realities of poverty push young girls (and boys) to do things they might not ordinarily consider. Whether by coercion or on purpose, the cycle of abuse found is a form of situational slavery. And if you are an American reader, don't be so smug - the same sorts of activities occur in the United States. In fact, the US is the number one location for Human Traffickng. So, as you read this book, try not to be judgmental, but keep an open mind to the realities of prostitution and its prevalence in modern society. In the Eastern European Sex Trade, human flesh, controlled by drugs or violence, is sold to a willing audience who like to watch, touch, or satisfy their urges - normal, kinky, or perverse. Julia Lazar, a recent high school graduate from the Ukraine, while tagging along with her older sisters, Natalia and Lena, is caught up in the dream of easy money. Although her siblings seem to be able to handle their customers, Julia finds herself addicted to drugs and alcohol which clouds her mind and leads to poor judgement in some difficult, even life threatening situations. She rationalizes her behaviors by comparing herself to wives who remain in loveless marriages for financial security. Don't read this one for the sex, which tends to be horrifying rather than titillating. Choose instead to be educated by a novel based on real life situations, told in first person present tense as if Julia is confiding the details of her life directly to the reader. Lola Smirnova, brought up in the Ukraine, but currently living in South Africa, has presented the first book in a Trilogy, bringing to light some of the sordid details of the seamier side of humanity. This one is not for the squeamish, but those willing to pursue an ugly, dark subject will be rewarded with a fascinating, albeit abhorrent, tale. I would like to thank Netgalley and Quickfox Publishing for providing me with this ARC in exchange for an honest review. Four stars. ...more Thank you to Kelsey at Book Publicity Services for sending me a copy of this book for review. When I first saw the blurb for this book I thought it sounded very intriguing but I was quite worried, worried that I'd hate it or that it would be so horrible to read I'd have to stop. Yes there were some scenes that were hard to read, but this book is so gripping you can't put it down. I read it in 1 day whilst I was also at work. Twisted follows the lives of three sisters Julia, Lena and Natalia, who Thank you to Kelsey at Book Publicity Services for sending me a copy of this book for review. When I first saw the blurb for this book I thought it sounded very intriguing but I was quite worried, worried that I'd hate it or that it would be so horrible to read I'd have to stop. Yes there were some scenes that were hard to read, but this book is so gripping you can't put it down. I read it in 1 day whilst I was also at work. Twisted follows the lives of three sisters Julia, Lena and Natalia, who decide to leave poverty stricken Ukraine where they have been struggling to get by and move to Luxembourg to sell their bodies for money. Julia struggles to adapt to their new way of life which leads her into a whole new world of trouble and Natalia and Lena must try and save her. Obviously, prostitution is a terrible thing and you may judge this book by learning that's what it is about, but it is much more than that. We get to learn why people do it and the things they have to put up with, that the reason most of them are on drugs is just to cope with the terrible things they are putting themselves through to earn a bit of money. This book is such an eye opener and shows you that you shouldn't judge people for selling themselves, yes they have chosen to do this, but in this book Lola explains why and you do start to understand. This book jumps straight in and has you hooked from the first page.It is based on Lola's real life experiences as a sex worker and this shows by the detail and in-depth characters Lola has created in this book. You can't help but feel sorry for all three of the girls and hope they can find a way of getting out of the life they have. Lola has a brilliant way of telling you her story, her writing style is so easy to follow and it feels as though she is just talking to you. Each of the characters are so likeable, all three sisters are each there for one another and help each other out, Julia was my favourite character because she was just so easy to connect with and you want her to be happy. There is quite a few times in the book you think she is going to the happy ending she deserves then something happens so she is back to square one again. This book is at times hard to read and quite disturbing which may affect you but it has so much emotion and real life that you just can't stop reading. Every detail that Lola has added into this book works so well in telling you her story. I would definitely recommend this book, it is well worth a read. ...more What a Twisted Ride! I was attracted by the book\u2019s blurb and I hadn\u2019t the slightest clue of what I was going to encounter. The title itself describes the book in a nutshell. The story follows Julia and her sisters Lena and Natalia. After the fall of the Soviet Union, they find themselves poverty stricken and in desperate need of making some easy cash. Lena and Natalia leave first and Julia, lured about making easy money, shortly follows her sisters in the sex trade. Easy money but of course, noth What a Twisted Ride! I was attracted by the book\u2019s blurb and I hadn\u2019t the slightest clue of what I was going to encounter. The title itself describes the book in a nutshell. The story follows Julia and her sisters Lena and Natalia. After the fall of the Soviet Union, they find themselves poverty stricken and in desperate need of making some easy cash. Lena and Natalia leave first and Julia, lured about making easy money, shortly follows her sisters in the sex trade. Easy money but of course, nothing in life is easy. There were many \u201cugh\u201d moments and certain parts of the novel that were so raw and gritty that I actually didn\u2019t want to continue reading it. I had to put the book down and absorb what I just read, hoping to make sense and to understand why anyone would put themselves in that situation. Yet, the more I read, the more I understood and actually found myself rooting for the sisters to find a way to free themselves of what they had to go through. The writing was easy to read and the story moved smoothly. The scenes to be so graphic that I felt the main purpose was to put perspective on how dark this type of profession is/was for those out there living it. The author\u2019s first language isn\u2019t English (basing this on the fact that the novel is based on real life experiences) so I was impressed with how easy it was to read. Again, some scenes were graphic yet necessary to accurately describe this life to those from the outside, looking in. After I finished the novel, I had to take a few moments to sit back and soak in what I just read. I wouldn\u2019t describe this novel as erotica as sex is not romanticized (and I\u2019m not a fan of erotica.) I don\u2019t know how to categorize this novel and that may be a good thing. I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Review can also be found on The Readers Hollow http://www.thereadershollow.com/home/... ...more 3.5 stars Twisted is not a book I would normally pick up, but the cover grabbed me instantly and the blurb sealed the deal. While reading, I felt as though I had a front-row seat in Julia\u2019s life, experiencing the life she led through her eyes \u2013 and what a horrifying life it was. This was not an easy book to read as some of the sex scenes are really graphic and really, really gross. That warning on the front of the book \u2013 yeah, you would want to take this one seriously. There are some truly shocki 3.5 stars Twisted is not a book I would normally pick up, but the cover grabbed me instantly and the blurb sealed the deal. While reading, I felt as though I had a front-row seat in Julia\u2019s life, experiencing the life she led through her eyes \u2013 and what a horrifying life it was. This was not an easy book to read as some of the sex scenes are really graphic and really, really gross. That warning on the front of the book \u2013 yeah, you would want to take this one seriously. There are some truly shocking moments within these pages and the title sums it up well \u2013 this story is indeed TWISTED. Just the fact that the author based this story on real life events makes me want to be sick. Knowing that young girls and women are living this life is truly sad to say the least. This is an intriguing and dark read that left me speechless but it is also laced with some funny moments that had me laughing out loud. The book is extremely well-written and you can really tell that the author as an in-depth knowledge of the sex-trade industry. I felt that Julia was extremely na\u00efve at times which made me frustrated at the numerous times that she screwed up, but in my opinion, this is what this story was trying to portray. This is a story of a girl and her sisters who just wanted to find a better life for themselves although they did not use their best judgment at times to get to their desired outcome. This book is an eye-opening experience that will make you appreciate how good you really have it in life\u2026..because it could be worse. The ending left me hopeful in a way, and I will definitely read the next installment of this series to see what happens next. See more at: The Avid Book Collector ...more STARS: 5 eye opening stars! POV: First SERIES: Yes CLIFFHANGER: Yes Wow! Lola Smirnova rips the band aid off and shows the world the ugly truth hidden underneath about the sex trade. It is not the romanticized version people have read about. This is not a book of happily ever afters and love triangles. This is a book of brutal honesty and digs deep in the bowel of the beast. It is not pretty and not for the weak of heart or stomach. This was a breath of fresh air. Not because of the subject matter. STARS: 5 eye opening stars! POV: First SERIES: Yes CLIFFHANGER: Yes Wow! Lola Smirnova rips the band aid off and shows the world the ugly truth hidden underneath about the sex trade. It is not the romanticized version people have read about. This is not a book of happily ever afters and love triangles. This is a book of brutal honesty and digs deep in the bowel of the beast. It is not pretty and not for the weak of heart or stomach. This was a breath of fresh air. Not because of the subject matter. I\u2019m not demented. But as a blogger, most of today\u2019s books are revolved around fairytales. This is far from it. This is more the nightmare that you can\u2019t wake up from. The book follows three desperate sisters. The economy is in the pits and the sisters have a tough choice to make. They can either stay put and suffer with poverty. Or they can join the sex trade industry. The money is excellent but the things they do for that money\u2026.will turn your stomach. I really enjoyed the book and cannot wait for more. The story starts from page 1. There is no build up. You immediately are thrown into it, but it\u2019s a gripping tale. One that I could not put down. The sacrifice these three make in attempts to have a better future is noble despite the nature of the job. This book is not for everybody but I still recommend it. If you are looking for raw material, this is a good place to start. The book is well written. The author puts you in the story. You feel the struggles, the emotions. Amazing job. Go 1-click today. ...more I feel as though saying I enjoyed this book would make me look perverse ... but I did. I couldn't put it down. I am fascinated by the fact that this is something that happens in our world - even now. This is the story of Julia, a young girl trying to survive in Post-Soviet Ukraine while watching her family struggle to put food on the table. She sees people who go to University for years, get 'meaningful' jobs and can barely provide for their families. She sees others, who go to Luxembourg to wor I feel as though saying I enjoyed this book would make me look perverse ... but I did. I couldn't put it down. I am fascinated by the fact that this is something that happens in our world - even now. This is the story of Julia, a young girl trying to survive in Post-Soviet Ukraine while watching her family struggle to put food on the table. She sees people who go to University for years, get 'meaningful' jobs and can barely provide for their families. She sees others, who go to Luxembourg to work in the cabaret's and come home with tons of money while bragging about their 'glamorous' lifestyles. Eventually she sees her sisters go there too. No one wants Julia to go there, she is too smart. But why go to University when you can make more money there? She has no idea what the girls there are forced to do, and when she goes herself, and sees for herself. She is surprisingly comfortable with a lot of it. On the other hand that is probably due to the drugs and alcohol she consumes to allow herself to tolerate it. This is a dark story, this is a heart breaking story, it is not a happily ever after. It is disturbing and depraved and will really make you think - well it did for me. I highly recommend this book and I'm happy that I clicked on it! To read my full review visit: moufainsbooks.weebly.com \u201cI received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review\u201d. ...more An upcoming author, Lola Smirnova lives in South Africa and a native of Ukraine. 'Twisted' was inspired by a true story of the lives of three sisters, Lena, Julia, and Natalia, and the story is set in 1990's. Julia Lazar is the youngest of the three and follows her sisters path into the cruel and bitter European sex trade and there raw experiences of it. The story gives light to Ukraine and takes us readers into a vile world of disturbing and tragic events of forced prostitution. The sisters head An upcoming author, Lola Smirnova lives in South Africa and a native of Ukraine. 'Twisted' was inspired by a true story of the lives of three sisters, Lena, Julia, and Natalia, and the story is set in 1990's. Julia Lazar is the youngest of the three and follows her sisters path into the cruel and bitter European sex trade and there raw experiences of it. The story gives light to Ukraine and takes us readers into a vile world of disturbing and tragic events of forced prostitution. The sisters head to Luxemburg to find work, and the youngest, Julia, finds work at a cabaret. Being in this kind of business, it's always inevitable that drugs play a large role, if only to lessen the pain. The sex scenes are explicit in this book, but are done tastefully and are not enticing and sexual by nature. 'Twisted' delves into the mind of Julia. She is the one telling us this story as it plays out, and although it's centered around dark deviation, it does have its moments of heart-warming elements throughout. Unfortunately, this is just one story told with many more that are untold, and 'Twisted' is not an easy read or for the faint of heart. A very realistic and descriptive perspective from the beginning an not to be missed. I was given a copy for evaluation and an unbiased review. ...more There's something intriguing about reading sex worker's memoirs. It's dark, fascinating, and impossible to put down. This novel is a fictionalized account of what it takes to \"make a living\" working in the post-Soviet Ukrainian sex trade. Julie and her two sisters are desperate to find work, jobs are few and far between. When a friend tells the sisters how much money can be made by working in the \"cabaret\" (whore house) they decide to try their hand at making some quick money. Julie (the younges There's something intriguing about reading sex worker's memoirs. It's dark, fascinating, and impossible to put down. This novel is a fictionalized account of what it takes to \"make a living\" working in the post-Soviet Ukrainian sex trade. Julie and her two sisters are desperate to find work, jobs are few and far between. When a friend tells the sisters how much money can be made by working in the \"cabaret\" (whore house) they decide to try their hand at making some quick money. Julie (the youngest sister and narrator of this story) especially has a hard time avoiding hard drugs and booze because it helps take the edge off of what she is doing. She isn't ashamed of being a call girl, but sometimes she just needs to forget some of the nasty things she does for money (namely an old man named Death). Her sisters try to get her to get clean, but Julie is convinced that there isn't a problem. This story spans about a year and chronicles Julie's descent into greed and addiction. Compelling, dark, and impossible to put down, this quick read will make you feel a little better about your life, or will maybe cause you to rethink your life's decisions. I received this book for free from the publisher in return for my honest, unbiased review. ...more Twisted by Lola Smirnova immediately captures your attention from the first page as she brings you into the hidden world of sex slavery. Be warned, it is not for the faint of heart, it's a dark tale so take heed and is the first part of a trilogy. This is a tale of three young sisters striving to make their lives better, as they endure the tribulations of the sex trade industry in Eastern Europe. Lola Smirnova offers an uncut peek into this world. As you read, you can't help but feel you are the Twisted by Lola Smirnova immediately captures your attention from the first page as she brings you into the hidden world of sex slavery. Be warned, it is not for the faint of heart, it's a dark tale so take heed and is the first part of a trilogy. This is a tale of three young sisters striving to make their lives better, as they endure the tribulations of the sex trade industry in Eastern Europe. Lola Smirnova offers an uncut peek into this world. As you read, you can't help but feel you are there with the author in those rooms, observing like Alice through the looking glass with unprecedented access, to a world that's completely alien to us but unfortunately really exists. The main character Julia has such strength and fortitude that as a reader I truly felt Smirnova made her seem real, it read like a personal account in places and the daily dangers, abuse and tribulations Julia had to endure were truly horrifying. But this deeply disturbing novel is beautifully written. I can't recommend this book enough for being bold enough to tackle such topics and for not 'prettying' up some scenes which other writers maybe wouldn't have included. *** reviewed on behalf of Obsessed by Books *** ...more I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. This was definitely a darker book. It was very realistic in the way that things happened that you believed could actually happen to a person in real life. And the characters were all....like they could have been people you knew. And that really brought this book home to me. It was the characters that had trouble and yet they were still very likable. Take Julia for example. In a different book she might have been portrayed as the pro I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. This was definitely a darker book. It was very realistic in the way that things happened that you believed could actually happen to a person in real life. And the characters were all....like they could have been people you knew. And that really brought this book home to me. It was the characters that had trouble and yet they were still very likable. Take Julia for example. In a different book she might have been portrayed as the problem or bad character but this book is told from her perspective and goes to show that there's always a story. The writing itself was captivating. It drew you in, held you captive and didn't let you go. The first person narrative was enjoyable as it felt as if Julia was actually telling the story to you after the fact, as if it was a cautionary tale or you were a friend that hadn't been there for that part of her life. This made it a very familiar way to tell the story and I enjoyed it. Twisted was a dark read but it does show the sex trade in a different light. It certainly gives a new perspective. Find this review and many more at Reading Shy With Aly ...more \u2018Twisted\u2019 was definitely a fitting title for this book. \u2018Twisted\u2019 is also based on real life events. To begin my review I wasn\u2019t to say I am terribly sorry that anyone has to go through these twisted events. I am glad that someone decided to share their story. I think \u2018Twisted\u2019 was well written, it gave a lot of information in a short period of time so for me it was a fast read. I think the dialogue could use some polishing and just a tad bit more character development was needed. However that d \u2018Twisted\u2019 was definitely a fitting title for this book. \u2018Twisted\u2019 is also based on real life events. To begin my review I wasn\u2019t to say I am terribly sorry that anyone has to go through these twisted events. I am glad that someone decided to share their story. I think \u2018Twisted\u2019 was well written, it gave a lot of information in a short period of time so for me it was a fast read. I think the dialogue could use some polishing and just a tad bit more character development was needed. However that didn\u2019t ruin anything in the book for me. I will say this book is not for the faint of heart. There are explicit sex scenes and drug use. So if you cannot handle that, then this book is not for you. I believe this book was done very well and I found it very interesting. It\u2019s definitely a book out of the norm; that might be why I liked it even more. \u2018Twisted\u2019 is a fast paced, captivating read. It is an interesting read and an eye opener. I hope to see more work from Lola, I am most definitely a fan. ...more Entertainer Julia, lady of the night from Ukraine. You can figure it out by the book cover, well sort of. The activities in the making and the friends and foe of such. Hardcore knowledge of the life, what life? Looks drew men mostly jerks-like the light draws moths. Secure in fantasy, never to come back to reality, wait not Julia, but Lena the middle sister. Guys could be excellent storyteller, what? Yeah, I have a wife and two kids, jerks. Fun girl, her muscular but graceful body to rugged and i Entertainer Julia, lady of the night from Ukraine. You can figure it out by the book cover, well sort of. The activities in the making and the friends and foe of such. Hardcore knowledge of the life, what life? Looks drew men mostly jerks-like the light draws moths. Secure in fantasy, never to come back to reality, wait not Julia, but Lena the middle sister. Guys could be excellent storyteller, what? Yeah, I have a wife and two kids, jerks. Fun girl, her muscular but graceful body to rugged and impulsive, no.... I'm not talking about Julia, Masha, yeah that's her, right? Natalia eldest sister protector of Julia and living an adult life. Adult what? Things can simply take a nose dive and change for the better. This story tells a tale of ups and downs and perseverance in the most awkward ways. Received a book from Goodreads, First Read Giveaway. Thank you, Darlene Cruz ...more From the opening page, \"Twisted\" by Lola Smirnova captivates the reader with a gritty story about a woman working in the oldest profession. I was really impressed with this book. I wasn't expecting to enjoy it as much as I did. While it was extreme in parts and very shocking - This book was a real eye opener. The cover may be a bit misleading as there is nothing erotic about this, at times it felt tragic - it shows how an error of poor judgement can forever change a young persons life. I definit From the opening page, \"Twisted\" by Lola Smirnova captivates the reader with a gritty story about a woman working in the oldest profession. I was really impressed with this book. I wasn't expecting to enjoy it as much as I did. While it was extreme in parts and very shocking - This book was a real eye opener. The cover may be a bit misleading as there is nothing erotic about this, at times it felt tragic - it shows how an error of poor judgement can forever change a young persons life. I definitely recommend this book to anyone who has a beating heart. This book made me think about what makes people do the things they do. ...more It's not my first book on this subject. I was always interested in how those girls who chose (or not) to work in sex industry live there lives. What do they think or feel when they go to bed with the man they don't like or even feel disgusted about. Imaging to do it no once but every day?? Anyway.. This is the first time when I've got the subject I am interested in AND a good quality of writing. It was flowing read with many angles the author used to be not judgmental but also fair. Few things wer It's not my first book on this subject. I was always interested in how those girls who chose (or not) to work in sex industry live there lives. What do they think or feel when they go to bed with the man they don't like or even feel disgusted about. Imaging to do it no once but every day?? Anyway.. This is the first time when I've got the subject I am interested in AND a good quality of writing. It was flowing read with many angles the author used to be not judgmental but also fair. Few things were too rough and I wish the author would take petty on her readers and didn't show us, but after all a very good read)! ...more<---C>Lola Smirnova</---C>", "Title": "Twisted"},
