{"Comments": "~ Full review ~ (<---B>EDIT : Translated Books List's link</---B>) 3.<---F>5 stars </---F>. When I first realized that <+++>Rooftops of Tehran</+++> was very much a romance and not the political novel I thought it would be, I was surprised - but curious. The truth is, I've never read a romance novel set in Iran. Ever. More than that,<---M> as a French woman</---M>, the only things I do know about Iran - and it's not much - are painted in a negative light. And I'm gonna say it : That shit is dangerous. Thinking in the lines of Bad Countries\u2122 ver ~ Full review ~ (EDIT : Translated Books List's link) 3.5 stars . When I first realized that <+++>Rooftops of Tehran</+++> was very much a romance and not the political novel I thought it would be, I was surprised - but curious. The truth is, I've never read a romance novel set in Iran. Ever. More than that, as a French woman, the only things I do know about Iran - and it's not much - are painted in a negative light. And I'm gonna say it : That shit is dangerous. Thinking in the lines of Bad Countries\u2122 versus Good Countries\u2122 is fucking dangerous - because tell me now, if we judge a country - its PEOPLE - on behalf of its leaders' faults, first we're flirting with Manicheism like real morons and secondly... well I guess we're fucking hypocrites? So, tell me, why does a romance novel - even flawed - is important? Well, <---A>Mahbod Seraji</---A> 's words in his author note say it better than I ever would : \"At a time when the country of my birth is often portrayed in the news media as \"the enemy,\" I chose to tell a story about friendship and humor, love and hope, universal experiences valued by people in all times and places. I wanted to show a side of Iran that's usually hidden from view - its warm, funny, generous people.\" A day like today, I really think we should sit one second and think about that - even when talking about a far from perfect novel. Because this book? No matter how annoyed I could be at some point, how some details - and more important parts - could have been handled better in my opinion, this novel reinforced this sentiment : guys, I'm sorry if it's not obvious to you and I don't want to offense anyone, but I am SICK of the way the whole book community is US/UK/AUS centered, including when it comes to diversity (don't get me wrong though, reading about and from minorities living in the US is much NEEDED and important and I am willing to read more and more diverse books, we can - need to - do BOTH). Because, guys! There is a WHOLE WORLD OUT THERE. There are THOUSANDS of writers who don't write in English, because some people, even writers, *GASP* don't speak English . MIND. BLOWN. And they are very rarely translated because.... well I guess because it doesn't interest Americans enough? I don't know? I kinda think now would be the time to open up and start looking elsewhere, don't you? I've been thinking more and more about this lately... and I'm building up a blog right now. I can't dive into the details yet, just know that I'll focus on translated books from all over the world. By the way, if you have recommendations for me, please use the comment section! I'll welcome them :) (I created a list so feel free to add books there : https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/1... ) As I said earlier, Rooftops of Tehran is very much a romance.... yet firmly anchored in the real world, that is to say, 1970s Iran. I found fascinating to follow the characters' struggle because it gave me an insight that otherwise I would not have gotten. When dealing with a different country, especially in the Middle-East/West Asia, we Western countries often focus on their leaders, while here on the contrary the story primarily brought the random citizens' life to light. This way, we the readers are able to see how the politics influence every part of the everyday of the inhabitants. I loved that because it felt way more real. A warning though : as I said, it takes place in 1970s Iran. Parts of the narrative brought up by some characters - and if not condoned by the mc, not strongly rejected either - would make me reluctant to recommend it to members or the LGBTQIA community, because if sadly realistic at this period of time, they could still be triggering. All in all, I was satisfied by the way political matters were tackled, even if I wish some issues wouldn't have been so IN YOUR FACE. Yet even if the way the US was put on a bit of a pedestal annoyed me at some point, I very much appreciated that their role in helping the Shah keep the power was mentioned. More than anything else in our world, we need nuances. I know that 2016 taught us that the loudest people would win the day, but we need to resist the urge to express our feelings in snap judgments. As much as I enjoyed following these characters, I can't deny that they sometimes lacked complexity, especially the secondary characters. Indeed if Pasha and Ahmed's friendship was everything ( friendship GOAL here), the dynamics between the other characters were too superficial for me to get fully involved. Zari especially made it hard for me to understand her : her decisions - especially near the end - seemed too sudden and all over the place, and I had a hard time suspending my disbelief. She didn't quite make sense to me? In the same way, the romance was cute but I never really felt 100% involved in it. As for the writing, some of the dialogues seemed like more lectures than anything else, and I can't deny that it felt like infodump -ish Iran 101 too. Good thing I had never taken that curse, I suppose, but someone educated on Iran's history might have found it rather tiring. Yet Rooftops of Tehran was very compelling : albeit simple, and not out-of-world amazing, the writing made the novel extremely readable. Am I more lenient because of the settings? Maybe I am. Is it really a big deal if I am? I don't think so? Look, I read so many uninspired romance novels taking place in the US, I sure enjoyed this one more . Let's see what you think, shall we? For more of my reviews, please visit: ...more A friend in the media sent me an advance reader copy of this book. It swept me away. I'm still struggling to find my way back into my real world - yes, it's one of those books: the story stays with you, the characters don't fade; a beautiful touching story in the voice of a 17-year old, written like a pro, not a word out of place, not a thought out of character. So visually intense - I felt like I was watching a movie and not reading a book. Powerful, magnificently powerful. I was blown away by A friend in the media sent me an advance reader copy of this book. It swept me away. I'm still struggling to find my way back into my real world - yes, it's one of those books: the story stays with you, the characters don't fade; a beautiful touching story in the voice of a 17-year old, written like a pro, not a word out of place, not a thought out of character. So visually intense - I felt like I was watching a movie and not reading a book. Powerful, magnificently powerful. I was blown away by the intensity of the narrator's casual but sophisticated voice, his willingness to expose his vulnerabilities - reminding me of my first love (no I haven't forgotten you, if you happen to be reading) reminding me of the moment I lost my voice, my wits, and yes, my heart, too. I didn't want the story to end - another 500 to 1000 pages would have sufficed! Have no doubt, Mr. Seraji, that soon everyone will be talking about ROOFTOPS OF TEHRAN. just one question and you can send me the answer in a private email: Did all this really happen? ...more This is such a lovely, lovely book. I fell in love with the story and the characters. It was far beyond what I could have imagined on any coming of age story to be. It had me on the edge of my chair alternately sobbing and then cheering for the characters. I have to call them characters to remind myself that this book is fiction. The story begins in Iran in 1973 when the Shah is in power and his subjects are tightly overseen by his secret police. Life continues as in many countries as long as th This is such a lovely, lovely book. I fell in love with the story and the characters. It was far beyond what I could have imagined on any coming of age story to be. It had me on the edge of my chair alternately sobbing and then cheering for the characters. I have to call them characters to remind myself that this book is fiction. The story begins in Iran in 1973 when the Shah is in power and his subjects are tightly overseen by his secret police. Life continues as in many countries as long as their political beliefs are in line with that of the Shah or if they differ, they must be extremely well hidden from all. Seventeen year old <---C>Pasha Shahed</---C> is in his last year of high school and when he graduates, his father will send him to the United States to study engineering. He spends most of his free time with his friend Ahmed. Together, the boys spend hours atop Pasha's roof, which is common practise in Tehran. They talk of all those things that interest teenage boys: school, teachers, their families, futures and perhaps, most important of all, girls. Ahmed loves Faheemeh, a girl from a few streets away, while Pasha is in love with Zari, the girl next door who is engaged to another of his friend's. I love to read and learning about cultures that is different from mine. This was my first exposure to Iran outside of news reports. It was refreshing to learn of it's people and their daily life. They have many of the same concerns such as housing, food, education, but they must also contend with a government whose foremost concern is their leader. Any one who disagrees with the leader could be subject to dire consequences. This is something that Pasha must be ever conscious of. The author, Mahbod Seraji , breathed so much life into these characters that I guess that they will not be forgotten. The young love of Pasha and Zari had me goes head over heels. I felt compassion for Grandma and was awed that the entire neighbourhood looked after her. I could clearly picture the homes, alleyways, streets and rooftops. At times I laughed out loud, and at the book's climax it had me crying :P When you read it, you will find yourself wanting to go slowly, not wanting it to end :) ...more Rooftops of Tehran offers us an important glimpse into Iran which most of us are not aware of in any real sense. Even now we are reading about the protests and killings happening because of many people's dissatisfaction with the ruling party. Rooftops also takes place during a time of frustration with the government, but this time it is with the Shah (which the U.S. put in power) and the outcome not seen in the book is the eventual overthrow of the government. Here the time is 1973-74 and we foll Rooftops of Tehran offers us an important glimpse into Iran which most of us are not aware of in any real sense. Even now we are reading about the protests and killings happening because of many people's dissatisfaction with the ruling party. Rooftops also takes place during a time of frustration with the government, but this time it is with the Shah (which the U.S. put in power) and the outcome not seen in the book is the eventual overthrow of the government. Here the time is 1973-74 and we follow the life of four high school students, two boys and two girls, working on the transition to adulthood. Yes, a coming of age story, but with the secret police taking people without reason and erasing their existence, the decisions are a bit more important. The best part of this book for many non-Iranian readers will be the glimpse into the everyday world of Iran. Many of us think of the Iranian woman in a burka as the common standard. But here the burka is worn only by one extremely religious relative, the Masked Angel, in another city. Arranged marriages do exist, but the main one in this novel is broken in the face of true love (Ahmed and Faheemeh) and the love of Zari and Pasha (the two main characters) is welcomed by both sets of parents. The drama moves forward when Zari's \"arranged boyfriend,\" Doctor, disappears after working as an activist against the government. SAVAK is the name of the secret police force which becomes a character in itself, always watching and controlling people even when they are not sure of when and how. We watch as Zari and the others deal with Doctor's disappearance, while Pasha deals with guilt of loving Zari despite her engagement and also because he is unintentionally responsible for SAVAK catching Doctor. SPOILER ALERT: Usually I avoid spoilers, but since my biggest frustration with the story comes in the plot direction, allow me to spoil! Doctor is killed in prison and the families are told to not mourn him. Zari is, of course, distraught over his death. However, it is clear throughout the book that she does not love him (she likes him) and that she loves Pasha. So it is surprising and hard to believe when she sets herself on fire on the 40th day of his death (a special time of mourning) while running into the Shah's birthday parade. Not only does she do this surprising act (she is hardly a radical), but she brings Pasha and their friends along to watch -- much to their horror. Pasha ends up in a mental institution (which we knew he would end up in since some chapters take place there, although until this incident we never know why he is there). Zari dies in her protest and Pasha returns home to find that the Masked Angel has moved into Zari's home (they are neighbors) to care for her parents. It takes one meeting with the Masked Angel and her whisper of a voice to figure out that Zari is alive and living in disguise. Why? Well, reasons are given, but none are easy to buy. SAVAK knows she is alive, so why hide it from anyone else? It takes Pasha a while to come to this realization and we wait not so patiently for this to develop. When it does she sends him off to the U.S. to study so he can return to her. This twist in the plot is unnecessary and way too \"cute\" to read without frustration. But the anti-climax of the revelation and the reunion of the \"lovers\" is also not worth the wait. This book makes a good story for the sappy romantics of the world, but they can find better stories than this to entertain them. I could be accused of a romantic leaning (I do love Jane Austen!), but this is too thick for me. What the book did encourage me to do is learn more about this country I still remember best for holding U.S. embassy employees hostage. I'm getting a non-fiction book on modern-day Iran so I can learn more of its recent history and current state. If Seraji's intent was to interest us in Iran, he is successful. It his intent was to write a great story, maybe the sequel will be better ...more Moving. Touching. Bittersweet. A story that attests to the unbreakable spirit. I truly and thoroughly enjoyed every inch of this book. I commend the writer, Mahbod Seraji who himself talks in the Readers Guide (yes, it was that good I read into the readers guide) about the struggle to learn English when he came to America from Iran, for the beauty and brilliantly colorful way he weaves his words and presents to us this work of literary art. This is the story of Pasha Shahed, his undying love fo Moving. Touching. Bittersweet. A story that attests to the unbreakable spirit. I truly and thoroughly enjoyed every inch of this book. I commend the writer, Mahbod Seraji who himself talks in the Readers Guide (yes, it was that good I read into the readers guide) about the struggle to learn English when he came to America from Iran, for the beauty and brilliantly colorful way he weaves his words and presents to us this work of literary art. This is the story of Pasha Shahed, his undying love for Zari, his martyred mentor Doctor, his humorous best friend Ahmed and his fianc\u00e9 Faheemah who all allow us a glimpse into their world seen from high atop the Rooftops of Tehran . This is a story that winds itself inside your heart and finds a place to live there never to be forgotten. Touching, wrapping around, embracing you within the very world of these characters until you read the last page and you find yourself wanting more. A need spreads and grows. I want to know that they all are alright. I need to know that they've lived out their lives surviving hopefully better than what they all experienced over the short period that this book chronicled. This is not an autobiography, so says the author but the spirit of these characters is so masterfully harnessed and embodied within his words you know in some way, some how, elements of these people did, do, must have walked the earth. I've learned so much more than I knew about this country and this culture than I did before I read this book. Iran. As an American, I think I'm supposed to feel some type of way toward this country and it's people. As a person, a human being created by God I think, a country consists of a mass of people and how can I feel any type of way about a group of individuals I don't even know. Who don't know me. I don't know their individual stories and they don't know mine. I can't blind hate, it's not in me. Government stuff.. Well, I'm not very political and I leave that respectfully to those who know more. Me, I love to learn about cultures and people that I don't know about, because underneath all the blurred lines...we are all humans who live, love hard, experience hardship and tragedy, admire beauty, wish for peace and equality, to give our children the entire contents of our hearts and to die in peace. People at the crux of it all, are people. We may differ in shape, size, color or speech, even belief but at the center, in the pit and depth of a human, we're more the same than all the differences the small minded can list. That is what you will take away from this book. That you felt and deeply. Why? Because change the name, the place, circumstance, change it all.. What still stands, feelings. Emotions. This is the relation point. The connection. Any good book has it and this book has \"that\" . No doubt about it, this is one of those perfection 7 stars (GR5) books for me. I would have quoted more but just enjoying the story too much to stop and keep doing that when my available reading moments were precious to me. It's a great story, I want to recommend it to all but I don't think it's for all. It's full of love, it's full of heartache, it's tragic but it's also full of humor, culture and living. I love a book that draws me in emotional. If you're open to that, pick it up. If not, respectfully leave it on the shelf. I hate hearing books I love get ripped to shreds. I don't know yet if this author has more books but I will check them out. Not sure what will be my next read but the bar is definitely set high now. ...more Every once in a while you stumble upon a book that, after reading it, you want to stop everyone on the street, hand them a copy, and insist they run home and read. Rooftops of Tehran is just that sort of book for me. In many ways the themes are universal. It is a coming of age tale in which two life- long friends experience their first loves and shed the naivete that we all eventually must let go of when we realize life is not fair and is often cruel. But, set in Iran during the tumultuous 70\u2019s Every once in a while you stumble upon a book that, after reading it, you want to stop everyone on the street, hand them a copy, and insist they run home and read. Rooftops of Tehran is just that sort of book for me. In many ways the themes are universal. It is a coming of age tale in which two life- long friends experience their first loves and shed the naivete that we all eventually must let go of when we realize life is not fair and is often cruel. But, set in Iran during the tumultuous 70\u2019s, the reader gets a glimpse into the history of Iran as well as its rich culture. In doing so, Seraji does his country a great service by bringing to light some of the lesser known aspects of the time. I\u2019m always surprised to learn how many people are unaware of the U.S. role in the 1953 coup d'\u00e9tat. Further, so much of the writing regarding the 70\u2019s focuses on the struggle between the Shah\u2019s followers and the rising Islamic fundamentalists. Seraji demonstrates the danger those associated with Marxism faced. He brilliantly weaves the country\u2019s history into the story by illustrating its impact on the psyche of the nation. \u201cI wonder how we can explain this national impulse to cheat. Maybe it\u2019s more a matter of sharing than cheating. I\u2019ve heard that people in the West compete at everything, and that you\u2019re either a loser or a winner. In my country, we don\u2019t have that same competitive spirit. Centuries of misery under the dominance of the Moguls, Arabs, and internal despotic rulers have conditioned us to stick together and help each other through unpleasant situations.\u201d Finally, he does the best job I\u2019ve seen of illustrating the dynamics of US-Iranian relations at this time. I\u2019ve read about the misconceptions that Iranians held during the era about Americans in many of the non-fiction books. Here, Seraji, illustrates them in ways that are quite humorous and brings clarity to a complicated subject. The book is incredibly well written. For me, character development is critical to make my favorites list. Here, the characters are so well drawn that you can\u2019t help but experience every emotion alongside the residents of the alley, and, boy, is it an emotional rollercoaster. I laughed at the antics of Ahmed. I cheered on the boys as they routinely stepped into aid each other. I set aside the book twice to cry my eyes out. And, I was often angry, wishing Pasha would forget his promise to the brotherhood of the boxing fraternity and knock someone\u2019s lights out. The alternating periods during the first part of the book creates an incredible tension in the book as the reader quickly falls in love with the characters but understands early on that something devastating has occurred. The only negative comment I can make is that the ending didn\u2019t work for me. It simply wasn\u2019t plausible. Because of that I should probably give it 4 stars, but I love the book so much I just can\u2019t. I will never look at a red rose again without thinking of this book. ...more To be honest, i picked up this book after reading Mornings in Jenin with the soul intention of trying to repair my damaged heart with the words of a different novel. To my dismay, my heartache only increased. The characters came to life in my mind and i fell in love with Ahmad's character. The message this book sends about standing for justice makes you think about how majority of the world stands by and watches in silence as the oppressors reign over the weak. Readers will learn that a life wit To be honest, i picked up this book after reading Mornings in Jenin with the soul intention of trying to repair my damaged heart with the words of a different novel. To my dismay, my heartache only increased. The characters came to life in my mind and i fell in love with Ahmad's character. The message this book sends about standing for justice makes you think about how majority of the world stands by and watches in silence as the oppressors reign over the weak. Readers will learn that a life without freedom is no life at all, it is like living in a comma with a machine attached to you. (the machine being the oppressors who won't let you be). You are technically alive thanks to this machine....but are you living? READ THE BOOK. ...more Rooftops speaks to the universality of the human condition- that knows no color, creed, sect or country. It is a story of hope,despite the abysmal darkness of a great loss. The voice evolves throughout the story, as does the young hero. Its piercing reality, relentless humor and often heartbreaking anguish turns the pages, and all along we hope we hope that love fills the void left by the loss--and we as readers are whole again. A touching tale that must be told This book is very close to my heart This is a beautiful novel, with sensitively drawn characters in a volatile and violent period of Iran, from 1973 to 1974 during the reign of the Shah of Iran. At the heart of this novel is a love story, but there's much more. The sustaining nature of intimate friendships and family relationships, and the sacrifices that the characters make for each other are poetically and movingly portrayed. At a time when U.S. foreign policy with Iran weighs heavily, this novel provides a personal and valuable This is a beautiful novel, with sensitively drawn characters in a volatile and violent period of Iran, from 1973 to 1974 during the reign of the Shah of Iran. At the heart of this novel is a love story, but there's much more. The sustaining nature of intimate friendships and family relationships, and the sacrifices that the characters make for each other are poetically and movingly portrayed. At a time when U.S. foreign policy with Iran weighs heavily, this novel provides a personal and valuable insight into Iranian culture and history. We had the pleasure of hosting the author at the Hayward Public Library on Sept. 28, 2009, and I selected it for the December meeting of the Mostly Literary Fiction Book Group. ...more Here's the thing: I fucking hated this thing, but I don't have much to say about it. And that's precisely why I didn't like it at all- it is so unremarkable and boring. It's not worth reading and it's not even worth the energy it takes to rant about it. All I will say is that I could not stand this book. It was so boring, and the only reason I finished it was because I was required to for school. Fuck this fucking book, I'm never reading it again. And I do not recommend it at all. I don't think I've ever openly cried for any characters from a book the way I did with this one. \"Rooftops of Tehran\" is a poignant book that absorbed me completely. I actually had to put it down for a bit as things became very intense when Zari's actions turn the tide in such a shocking way. I love Ahmed's character and that he is Pasha's best friend. I adore Pasha's emotions and thoughts on Zari. Even Pasha's father and his stories and the quirks of his mother endeared to me. I longed to be a I don't think I've ever openly cried for any characters from a book the way I did with this one. \"Rooftops of Tehran\" is a poignant book that absorbed me completely. I actually had to put it down for a bit as things became very intense when Zari's actions turn the tide in such a shocking way. I love Ahmed's character and that he is Pasha's best friend. I adore Pasha's emotions and thoughts on Zari. Even Pasha's father and his stories and the quirks of his mother endeared to me. I longed to be a part of the dialogue that took place on the rooftops every night. I laughed when they laughed, cried at their losses, fumed at the injustices of their society--this was just an incredible read. Some beautiful, quotable moments for me include: \"Faheemah is watching us, knowing full well that a seventeen-year-old boy has taken his first step toward becoming a man, and in the process has made her feel more like a woman than all the aunts, uncles, and formalities of the night before. If she must marry a man her parents have chosen for her, at least she knows that she is loved by someone with enough courage to defy tradition.\" \"I wish I had the courage to tell them about myself and Zari, but love is a private matter, and the vault of the heart is not to be opened lightly, nor the treasure of love exposed. I always wondered why, despite our passionate spirit as a nation whose poetry is filled with declarations of love, our reality is one of guarded emotions when it comes to members of the opposite sex.\" \"That's the way of the Persians--we are masters in the art of implication, sometimes at the cost of the point getting lost on an unsophisticated listener. Facts seldom matter. The meaning and the message are always woven into the fabric of our discourse. 'Deep in each knot of a Persian rug is a statement of the hands that patiently drove the needle and the thread,' I once heard my father say.\" \"'I'd rather be in hell with you than without you in heaven....'\" ...more I read Rooftops of Tehran in two consecutive nights, as I could not put it down once I started the book. I was originally drawn to this book because although we have a wealth of novel/memoir written by Iranian women, I personally knew of none written by an Iranian man. I was curious to find out what a male perspective reflected in such format would contain, and I was not disappointed! Indeed, this is the first credit I would give the author. I enjoyed the ease Seraji writes with; the vivid pictu I read Rooftops of Tehran in two consecutive nights, as I could not put it down once I started the book. I was originally drawn to this book because although we have a wealth of novel/memoir written by Iranian women, I personally knew of none written by an Iranian man. I was curious to find out what a male perspective reflected in such format would contain, and I was not disappointed! Indeed, this is the first credit I would give the author. I enjoyed the ease Seraji writes with; the vivid pictures of the ordinary life he depicts; and the richness of his characters. Ahmad is a central attraction among these characters and a hilariously funny and likable kid. Finally, I find a reflection on the seemingly long-gone reign of the Shah and his atrocities to be extremely timely at this turbulent time when the Iranian people seem to be back on the stage fighting for democracy. Iranians, especially the young generation, have suffered in hands of the Islamic regime so much that they tend to forget how oppressive the previous regime was, and even glorify that period \u201cin comparison\u201d with the IRI. It is very useful to be reminded how deep the flaws of the previous regime ran into the society. I sincerely hope I read more books by Mahbod Seraji. ...more Just two quick remarks. First - had a problem which I always have with books translated into Croatian in the constant never ending present tense > it just bugs me. I sounds text bookish and cold and I just don't like it and think it's wrong. Second - main character's best friend Ahmed is one of the coolest book characters I can remember, one of those you get a crush on. So, watch out. :) To wrap it up - a really really good book, warm, funny and one of those that makes you understand the Arab Just two quick remarks. First - had a problem which I always have with books translated into Croatian in the constant never ending present tense > it just bugs me. I sounds text bookish and cold and I just don't like it and think it's wrong. Second - main character's best friend Ahmed is one of the coolest book characters I can remember, one of those you get a crush on. So, watch out. :) To wrap it up - a really really good book, warm, funny and one of those that makes you understand the Arab culture a little more. So Ahmed doesn't always have to be the terrorist, he can be a crush! :) ...more No ten\u00eda expectativa alguna de est\u00e9 libro, simplemente lo compr\u00e9 porque la sinopsis se ve\u00eda comprometedora. \u00a1Fue un libro extraordinario! Desde el principio me encant\u00f3, la nota que hab\u00eda del autor a sus lectores, acerca de que si necesit\u00e1bamos hablar del libro con \u00e9l le mand\u00e1ramos un correo, no s\u00e9 por qu\u00e9 pero me pareci\u00f3 un gran detalle. Claro que no le mandar\u00eda nada porque soy mala expres\u00e1ndome por escrito, como ya se habr\u00e1n dado cuenta. Entrando a la parte de la trama del libro, est\u00e1 Pasha que v No ten\u00eda expectativa alguna de est\u00e9 libro, simplemente lo compr\u00e9 porque la sinopsis se ve\u00eda comprometedora. \u00a1Fue un libro extraordinario! Desde el principio me encant\u00f3, la nota que hab\u00eda del autor a sus lectores, acerca de que si necesit\u00e1bamos hablar del libro con \u00e9l le mand\u00e1ramos un correo, no s\u00e9 por qu\u00e9 pero me pareci\u00f3 un gran detalle. Claro que no le mandar\u00eda nada porque soy mala expres\u00e1ndome por escrito, como ya se habr\u00e1n dado cuenta. Entrando a la parte de la trama del libro, est\u00e1 Pasha que vive en Ir\u00e1n, se podr\u00eda decir que ha tenido una vida tranquila. Tiene un mejor amigo llamado Ahmed (\u00a1qued\u00e9 fascinada con su amistad! Para m\u00ed ha sido una de las mejores amistades que he visto a trav\u00e9s de los libros). Juega con los ni\u00f1os de su barrio, ambos se enamoran, pasan por cosas que cualquiera a sus 17 a\u00f1os pasa\u2026 claro, hay algo que le da un giro por completo a la historia. La verdad es que al principio me gust\u00f3 bastante, sent\u00eda que estaba viendo todo por una casa que pertenec\u00eda al mismo barrio en el que Pasha y Ahmed viv\u00edan. Y luego me gust\u00f3 a\u00fan m\u00e1s cuando resulta que Pasha est\u00e1 narrando algunas partes desde un psiqui\u00e1trico (esto no es ning\u00fan spoiler, promesa) \u00a1s\u00f3lo aument\u00f3 mi euforia por leerlo! Por supuesto no s\u00f3lo son Pasha y Ahmed, hay mucho m\u00e1s personajes importantes como Zari y Faheemed (perd\u00f3n pero no recuerdo c\u00f3mo se escribe) que forman una hermosa amistad o quiz\u00e1 (\u00a1quiz\u00e1!) algo m\u00e1s. Lo que hace a est\u00e9 libro especial es que no solamente se centra en la historia de las reuniones entre estos j\u00f3venes sino que ve tambi\u00e9n el problema social que hab\u00eda en esos a\u00f1os en Ir\u00e1n, lo que era la SAVAK, la represi\u00f3n que el sah ejerc\u00eda sobre ellos, los libros que ten\u00edan prohibido leer \u00a1un mont\u00f3n de problemas bastante interesantes! Pero, s\u00ed, tristemente hay un PERO, el autor abus\u00f3 tanto del tema que me lleg\u00f3 a hartar, no digo que est\u00e9 mal, es interesante conocer costumbres, pensamientos y otras cosas de un pa\u00eds que sabemos tiene problemas pero no le tomamos la atenci\u00f3n suficiente. En cierto momento, estoy segura, el autor se pon\u00eda en el papel de Pasha \u00a1\u00e9l era Pasha! Comenzaba a despotricar acerca de E.U., realmente no me molesta que despotrique acerca de ellos, me da igual, simplemente es que siempre que hablaba de eso \u00a1era lo mismo! Igual que cuando hablaba de la SAVAK, igual que cuando cualquier personaje se quejaba del sah. Siempre lo mismo. Y aunque haya sido repetitivo en ese aspecto, me segu\u00eda teniendo pegada a la historia, porque es una historia de amistad, de valores y \u00bfpor qu\u00e9 no? De amor (aunque creo que esto fue lo que lo jodi\u00f3 un poco). Me hizo llorar, me hizo re\u00edr pero sobre todo me hizo pensar en la situaci\u00f3n que hay en varios pa\u00edses para decir: estamos jodidos. Porque s\u00e9 que no es la situaci\u00f3n de un s\u00f3lo pa\u00eds, sino de varios y aunque la historia se haya desarrollado hace 30 a\u00f1os, todo sigue igual. ...more I'm not sure why this book has received so many good reviews. The first part of the book held my interest fairly well, but about halfway through I just couldn't wait to get done, and actually skimmed much of the last 75 or so pages. It was ok I guess, but there was far too little about Iran and the historical situation at the time, and far too much irrelevant narration. For example, at one point, the narrator spends several pages describing how his aunt and uncle don't get along (but really do) I'm not sure why this book has received so many good reviews. The first part of the book held my interest fairly well, but about halfway through I just couldn't wait to get done, and actually skimmed much of the last 75 or so pages. It was ok I guess, but there was far too little about Iran and the historical situation at the time, and far too much irrelevant narration. For example, at one point, the narrator spends several pages describing how his aunt and uncle don't get along (but really do) when that has absolutely nothing to do with anything in the story at all. Seriously, nothing. I think it was supposed to be humorous, but it was actually just stupid. The story was extremely predictable, and yet I was left very confused about why certain things happened the way they did. For example, why did the secret police let Zari live, but insist that she and her family go into exile and represent to the rest of the world that she died when she set herself on fire?? That seemed totally unrealistic to me. The writing was not anything special, and I actually found it pretty awkward through most of the book. It was also just a little too cutesy and sappy for me, but I guess I should've expected that with main characters who are 17 years old. ...more Rooftops of Tehran started out to be promising and tragic, but ended flat and disappointing. I loved the beginning of the book and immediately felt immersed in Iranian life. I feel like the characteristics of each character were exaggerated to an extreme degree, but it worked for this book. I've also never come across a novel that deals with the oppression and fear of pre-revolution Iran during the Shah's reign (as opposed to the many that talk about post-revolution Iran and Khomeini). It was re Rooftops of Tehran started out to be promising and tragic, but ended flat and disappointing. I loved the beginning of the book and immediately felt immersed in Iranian life. I feel like the characteristics of each character were exaggerated to an extreme degree, but it worked for this book. I've also never come across a novel that deals with the oppression and fear of pre-revolution Iran during the Shah's reign (as opposed to the many that talk about post-revolution Iran and Khomeini). It was refreshing to read something about Iran that took place right at the cusp of a volatile political time, but whose main character wasn't particularly political to begin with. The problem for me came in about the last ten pages. Without giving it away, the twist was unexpected, but I was so disappointed in it. I feel like the ending is probably a make-or-break point for many readers; they'll either love it and love the book even more, or dislike it and then end the book with a bitter taste. Unfortunately I was of the latter camp. Overall, I think I would recommend this book because of its ability to take a reader to pre-revolution Iran; it begins to set the stage for the revolution. You get a peek at some of the discontent boiling in Iran and - if you didn't already - begin to better understand the desire for change. When/if you read Rooftops of Tehran, maybe just stop reading ten pages before the real end. ...more Rooftops of Tehran is so many things: semi-autobiographical, a beautifully done coming of age story, a portrait of a specific time and place (Tehran 1973-74). It's peopled with wonderful characters, the kind who stay with you after you've finished the book, who pop into your head for a visit like old friends. It's also one of the best portraits of teenage life I've ever read. The way Seraji evokes Tehran and the Persian culture, the smells and tastes, sights and sounds is so powerful that I felt Rooftops of Tehran is so many things: semi-autobiographical, a beautifully done coming of age story, a portrait of a specific time and place (Tehran 1973-74). It's peopled with wonderful characters, the kind who stay with you after you've finished the book, who pop into your head for a visit like old friends. It's also one of the best portraits of teenage life I've ever read. The way Seraji evokes Tehran and the Persian culture, the smells and tastes, sights and sounds is so powerful that I felt like I was there. I could hear it, see it, taste it, smell it. Perhaps my favorite thing about the book is that it was at once so familiar and yet so foreign, in a way that felt totally organic. From the first page, you identify with the narrator Pasha. The novel pulls you in and doesn't let you go until the very last page. Highly recommended. ...more This is one of those rare books that takes your breath away. The history of political unrest in 1970s Iran is fascinating enough, but throw in beautiful prose and a coming-of-age story, and you get a masterpiece. Lovely, heart-wrenching, and hilarious as hell, this book will sweep you away. When you let it steal your heart, you'll have a helluva time finding your way back to reality. This book acquaints you with the characters in a way that makes it impossible to set the book down, and the characters will stay with you long after you have finished the book. The symbolism in the book is subtle and might be lost to the casual reader. Some have called the book a love story, it's far more than that. I highly recommend it. I loved and enjoyed reading this book tremendously. It will make you laugh and at the same time it will break your heart. I recommend this book to anyone and everyone who appreciates captivating literature. I hope that Mahbod will continue Pasha's story in a future novel and I know that you will too after reading this book. Pasha Shahed and his best friend Ahmed are 17 years old. Life might not be perfect, but they're happy. Ahmed is in love with Faheemeh, a beautiful girl from another neighborhood. Pasha is secretly in love with Zari, who has been engaged to Pasha's mentor/friend, Doctor, since birth. It's 1973 and Iran is ripe for a revolution. The Shah is brutal about silencing any dissidents and he has the backing of the US. Doctor is a radical at heart. He disappears over the summer, supposedly to help improve Pasha Shahed and his best friend Ahmed are 17 years old. Life might not be perfect, but they're happy. Ahmed is in love with Faheemeh, a beautiful girl from another neighborhood. Pasha is secretly in love with Zari, who has been engaged to Pasha's mentor/friend, Doctor, since birth. It's 1973 and Iran is ripe for a revolution. The Shah is brutal about silencing any dissidents and he has the backing of the US. Doctor is a radical at heart. He disappears over the summer, supposedly to help improve the lives of remote villagers. He comes running back into the neighborhood late one night, chased by the Shah's secret police. A chain of events is set off that night that leads to heartbreak and agonizing choices. First of all, I love this cover. Not only is it beautiful, but it fits the story perfectly. I loved this glimpse into life in Iran. As an American, I have to say that we really never hear anything good about Iran. In our media, they're the bad guys who only want nuclear weapons to rain on our heads. Maybe that's a slight exaggeration, but there's a grain of truth there. This is a reminder that people are people, no matter where we happen to live. I can't relate to Pasha's strict school teachers, or fear of speaking out, but I can relate to long, perfect summers, first love, and laughter with friends. I can relate to the importance that his family and friends play in his life. I understand the highs and lows of being 17 and learning that life isn't fair. I loved the characters in this book. They were all high-spirited and loved each other. Ahmed with his irrepressible sense of humor may have been my favorite, but Pasha with his secret desire to be an author or filmmaker was just quieter. The girls, while not as repressed as I tend to think of Muslim girls as being, still didn't really have the opportunities that a Western girl has. In their own ways, they still managed to shine. To say more would give away spoilers, but these are two very brave female characters. The book opens in the winter of 1974 with Pasha in a mental hospital. He doesn't know where he is or how he got there. The next chapter flashes back to the idyllic summer of 1973. Not knowing what happened to land Pasha in the hospital, but knowing that it must have been something bad, had my stomach in knots for him. Everything catches up and makes sense about 2/3 of the way through the book. It felt like that should have been the climax of the book, but there was an awful lot of \"dealing with the aftermath\" still to go. I had a hunch about where everything was going to ultimately end up, so I was mostly reading at that point to see if I was right. I could have wished for a more definite ending, but I was happy enough with the way it was. According to the author interview at the back of my book, he is planning a sequel, and I will definitely be looking for that to see what happens with Pasha and company. ...more Seventeen year old Pasha spends most of his summer on the rooftop with his best friend Ahmed. Together they jokily bond over infatuation and girls, trusting that they will remain inseparable for life. While they perception of America is affluent & imagery, they much rather reside in their hometown of Iran. Sharing things in common are one of the few reasons why they are so close, not to mention the fact that they often banter about girls. In particular, Ahmed is in a solid relationship with Seventeen year old Pasha spends most of his summer on the rooftop with his best friend Ahmed. Together they jokily bond over infatuation and girls, trusting that they will remain inseparable for life. While they perception of America is affluent & imagery, they much rather reside in their hometown of Iran. Sharing things in common are one of the few reasons why they are so close, not to mention the fact that they often banter about girls. In particular, Ahmed is in a solid relationship with a girl that he deeply has affection for. On the other hand, Pasha is in love with a much older girl, Zari who is already committed to a man that goes by Doctor. Torn between a guy that has different taste with culture and values, she wonders if his bias judgments is going to come between their marriage. Engaged to him was never her intention or at least she feels that she can so much better. Lurking in the shadow is Pasha who secretly wants her to cute ties with Doctor and consider his offer of romance. Pasha hates that his mother describes him as shy & introverted. Determined to make it work with Pasha, he does not see himself changing his personality to be accepted in the crowd. As long as Pasha accepts him as he is, he is not going to conform to the expectations of his parents. Ahmed tries unsuccessfully to pair Pasha and Zari together much to Pasha dismay. However he appreciates that his best friend wants him to be happy, even if he thinks that his chances with a much older woman are slim. Little does he know, Pasha desires him as much as he does her but risking her relationship with Doctor is something that she fears the most. Ahmed and Pasha relationship continues to grow in this fascinating love story about how love does not know what time and distance is. Enlightening, heartbreaking, pivotal and an amazing lyrical debut by a talented writer. I love how this story was written, it started off slow but quickly progressed into an amazing story. Pasha reminded me a lot like myself, as far as his attributes being introverted and shy. Additionally I loved the bond he shared with his best friend Ahmed, their bromance was rare in a novel but they were written with so much depth. Looking forward to reading more novels by Seraji, it was a beautiful love story! ...more I've read three books recently : first Mother by Gorky, then Animal Farm and now this ; all set against a backdrop of capitalism,marxism & socialism ; all emphasizing one thing : if citizens are not politically aware and outspoken,they'll be exploited by those in power.This book was a strong portrayal of fear and helplessness in face of Shah's dictatorship in Iran in 1973-74.I liked the cultural comparisons between Iranians and Americans : Iranians are masters of subtle communication,they s I've read three books recently : first Mother by Gorky, then Animal Farm and now this ; all set against a backdrop of capitalism,marxism & socialism ; all emphasizing one thing : if citizens are not politically aware and outspoken,they'll be exploited by those in power.This book was a strong portrayal of fear and helplessness in face of Shah's dictatorship in Iran in 1973-74.I liked the cultural comparisons between Iranians and Americans : Iranians are masters of subtle communication,they say things without words.Iranians openly lament at funerals while Americans try to show restraint but later end up in psychiatrist's couches. I think Pasha was portrayed as a near-perfect Smart Alec which was annoying.Ahmad was really funny.The friendship of the four teenagers in an eastern setting as unrealistic.I agreed with the views of Pasha's otherwise radical school teacher Mr.Kermani,'I know you're one of those kids who enjoy sitting by the fire and reading philosophical bullshit instead of proven formulas that might save this nation from the grip of backwardness'.Higher education is the way to do something valuable for our third-world countries.But then I wonder if I'm like the horse, Boxer in Animal Farm.Boxer was remarkably hard-working but politically ignorant and thought that working hard was the answer to his every problem.He ended up dying pathetically.Political awareness and outspokenness is a must for everyone. Character of Doctor reminded me of a radical class fellow who left the medical university in 1st year to go for jehad.Five years later,he was arrested for questioning from a mosque.Why people think jehad is only fighting with guns.He could have had a greater influence and chance of propagating his beliefs had he become a professional.Pity.Such a waste of talent. Overall,a quick,easy and enjoyable read. ...more What a wonderful insight into the life and culture of Iran under the Shah. As Americans this is a part of world that is a mystery to us. And guess what? We are a mystery to them too. This story is narrated by a teenage Pasha, struggling to find himself as a man during the early 1970's in Tehran. He is coming of age, learning how to shave, playing soccer in the alley and falling in love all under the stars on the roof of his family's home. When he unwittingly leads the secret police toward his fri What a wonderful insight into the life and culture of Iran under the Shah. As Americans this is a part of world that is a mystery to us. And guess what? We are a mystery to them too. This story is narrated by a teenage Pasha, struggling to find himself as a man during the early 1970's in Tehran. He is coming of age, learning how to shave, playing soccer in the alley and falling in love all under the stars on the roof of his family's home. When he unwittingly leads the secret police toward his friend and mentor, Doctor, Pasha's life is shattered. Rooftops of Tehran is beautifully written and emotionally charged. I loved the comparisons of the middle eastern and western cultures. I was heartbroken by the oppressive political environment Pasha and his family were forced to live under. All in all this novel is a well rounded and interesting story about a time and place I find fascinating and mysterious. I rate Rooftops of Tehran a 4 out of 5. Well worth the time to expand your heart and open your mind. ...more This poignant coming of age story transports the reader to Iran in the 1970\u2019s during the reign of Shah Pahlavi. Seventeen year old Pasha and his best friend Ahmed spend much of their time up on Pasha\u2019s rooftop terrace talking about life, girls, and the many colorful characters who live in their neighborhood. Pasha secretly hides his growing love for his next door neighbor, a beautiful girl named Zari who is betrothed to another young man. The boys\u2019 idyllic summer is suddenly changed when Zari\u2019s This poignant coming of age story transports the reader to Iran in the 1970\u2019s during the reign of Shah Pahlavi. Seventeen year old Pasha and his best friend Ahmed spend much of their time up on Pasha\u2019s rooftop terrace talking about life, girls, and the many colorful characters who live in their neighborhood. Pasha secretly hides his growing love for his next door neighbor, a beautiful girl named Zari who is betrothed to another young man. The boys\u2019 idyllic summer is suddenly changed when Zari\u2019s fianc\u00e9 is arrested by the SAVAK, the Shah\u2019s secret police. Author Mahbod Seraji vividly presents a story of love, loyalty, friendship, courage, sacrifice, and ultimately hope set against the backdrop of fear and oppression on the eve of the Iranian revolution. With heartbreak and humor Seraji provides the reader with an insider\u2019s view of the Persian culture as seen through the eyes of its unforgettable characters. ...more From the beginning, the writing style intrigued me. The educated and thoughtful mind of a philosopher muddled with the unavoidable conflicts of being in love as a teenager. Even previously knowing next to nothing of the culture, the story pulled me in, ensnaring me in a tale of love, friendship, death, tyranny, culture, and That . Pasha and the members of his alley spend their time loving, laughing, crying, rebelling, and mourning, which the reader experiences with them. As I read, this book quic From the beginning, the writing style intrigued me. The educated and thoughtful mind of a philosopher muddled with the unavoidable conflicts of being in love as a teenager. Even previously knowing next to nothing of the culture, the story pulled me in, ensnaring me in a tale of love, friendship, death, tyranny, culture, and That . Pasha and the members of his alley spend their time loving, laughing, crying, rebelling, and mourning, which the reader experiences with them. As I read, this book quickly sped its way up to the top of my list, making me reconsider my priorities and examine my thoughts, beliefs, and presumptions, as so very few books can. I thank Mr. Seraji for his masterpiece, and look forward to recommending Rooftops to everyone I know. I can't wait for more novels by this talented author, whom I will keep an eye on for future works of heart. ...more I read this book ages ago, but it's one of the ones where the review got lost in the shuffle. I liked it enough to keep it instead of donate it or trade it on Paperbook swap, so that's a good sign :) My overwhelming feeling a few years after reading it is that I loved the imagery of pre-revolutionary Iran, and the thoughts that the main character has about America (which are derived in part from those of the Author, who moved here as a young man). I enjoyed watching the relationship between Pasha I read this book ages ago, but it's one of the ones where the review got lost in the shuffle. I liked it enough to keep it instead of donate it or trade it on Paperbook swap, so that's a good sign :) My overwhelming feeling a few years after reading it is that I loved the imagery of pre-revolutionary Iran, and the thoughts that the main character has about America (which are derived in part from those of the Author, who moved here as a young man). I enjoyed watching the relationship between Pasha and Zari, as well as watching Pasha grow emotionally. I also remember figuring out the twist at the end before it was revealed, but that wasn't such a bad thing. I've held onto it, and will read it again some day. ...more My book club read this book and thoroughly enjoyed it. We are all of an age to remember the world events occurring in Iran during the mid- to late-70s and could relate to the coming-of-age stories of the characters. The story line and setting provoked much good discussion. We also took Mahbod Seraji up on his offer to speak with book clubs and had a fascinating 1 hour discussion with him by Facetime. A very powerful first person narrative. These are the kinds of characters that are unforgettable they are so real. I loved the book, except for the profanity, but it was not gratuitous. Some parts of the book made me laugh, others made me want to cry, but I enjoyed the entire book. The ending was a bit surprising, but it was good. I want to know what happened to the characters after the end of this book! A sequel would be great, but I can't imagine a denouement that would live up to this one!", "Title": "Rooftops of Tehran"},
