{"Comments": "I have to confess something before I write this review. This book is about a teenager, Sam, who is a Mean Girl who trips into Groundhog Day world and is set on a path to redemption. My confession is that I used to be a girl almost exactly like Sam. Shallow, egotistical and worst of all - mean.<---F> Really, really mean</---F>. I've commented before on the fact that I was a terrible teenager. My parents did not so much try to raise me through these years. More like they tried to survive me as you would a hurri I have to confess something before I write this review. This book is about a teenager, Sam, who is a Mean Girl who trips into Groundhog Day world and is set on a path to redemption. My confession is that I used to be a girl almost exactly like Sam. Shallow, egotistical and worst of all - mean. Really, really mean. I've commented before on the fact that I was a terrible teenager. My parents did not so much try to raise me through these years. More like they tried to survive me as you would a hurricane. In this book, Sam comes to the final realization that she is a bitch. I know I related to this book more perhaps than some other readers would because I had to come to my own realization about that. It is a strange and aggravatingly unsettling experience to wake up and realize the world neither revolves around you,<---M> nor should it</---M>, because you are a horrible person. Yet, that's nothing compared to living your teenage years on the receiving end of bullshit people like me dished out to other people. I can imagine growing up with that kind of experience would make you quite unsympathetic to Sam. But Sam is on a path and a journey. Oliver doesn't withhold on characterization. Every petty, mean, shallow act and thought is shamelessly paraded here. I loved the cast and the complicated relationships they all had. I loved Sam and <---C>Kent</---C>'s relationship as well as Sam and Lindsey's relationship. Most of the people in this book felt like people I'd known or met in real life. The writing worked well for this novel. Never too flowery or explanatory but rather serving the purpose of translating complicated thoughts and feeling to the reader without being burdensome or boring. Every time I felt Sam was a little too... Oliver managed to turn it around and make her... I think it took a lot of courage to write Sam's characterization as she did. A lot of YA fiction depicts the Perfect Female ala Bella Swan. Where character flaws amount to being clumsy and everyone they ever meet thinks they're amazing and mature and wise beyond their years. (<---B>Note: Zoe Redbird, no, you are not.</---B>) My only complaint about the book is in the spoiler down below. Basically, I loved it, I connected to it. I felt like the themes were handled in a believable, realistic way. I guess this book made me melancholy. I think about Juliet Sykes and remember that I once had my own Juliet Sykes. I wish I could go back in time and change that. I wish I could somehow make amends to her. Hell, I wish I could even remember her real name and not just all the disgusting nicknames we gave her. I wish I'd been the kind of teenager I could be proud of. Yet this book made me glad that I did change, that I have tomorrow to keep trying and learning and growing. It makes me happy to think that even I deserved a chance at redemption and to choose a different way to live my life. Most of all, this book makes me really bloody happy that I'm an adult now and that I never, ever, have to go back. Ever. (view spoiler) [ Perhaps the only real critique I could give of the book is this: Do you remember that scene from Shakespeare in Love when Ben Affleck's Ned Alleyn is talking to Shakespeare about the ending of Romeo and Juliet and he says, \"But there's a scene missing between marriage and death.\" And in case you skipped school for the Obvious lesson in your Obvious class, he's talking about: boning. It's this but it's not this. If you know what I mean... Now I'm not actually saying that I wanted Sam and Kent to bone but I felt there needed to be more to the final part of the book than just a few vague kisses and a goodbye. I mean, poor Kent, right? he wakes up one day and, out of the blue, the girl he's in love with decides to give him a break and actually kiss him. Then she tells him that he's the best thing that ever happened to her. Then she dies. At least give the poor guy a happy ending... of sorts. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I shiver, thinking about how easy it is to be totally wrong about people - to see one tiny part of them and confuse it for the whole. 4 1/2 stars. Back in 2010, I read <+++>Before I Fall</+++> and immediately thought I'd found a new favourite author. I eagerly awaited every book <---A>Lauren Oliver</---A> released after it and yet, I have disliked every single one. My dislike for her writing style in books like Rooms and Vanishing Girls made me wonder what happened. Could it be that Oliver's style had so drastically c I shiver, thinking about how easy it is to be totally wrong about people - to see one tiny part of them and confuse it for the whole. 4 1/2 stars. Back in 2010, I read <+++>Before I Fall</+++> and immediately thought I'd found a new favourite author. I eagerly awaited every book Lauren Oliver released after it and yet, I have disliked every single one. My dislike for her writing style in books like Rooms and Vanishing Girls made me wonder what happened. Could it be that Oliver's style had so drastically changed? Or was it my own changing tastes that had pulled me away from her books? Returning to this book in 2015, it is still as fantastic as I remember . It is truly such a strong YA Contemporary (with a non-realistic spin) and the writing is perfect. The saddest thing about reading this book again was finally understanding how much Oliver's style has changed, in my opinion, for the worse. Before I Fall is about popular mean girl - Samantha Kingston - and her group of popular friends. When Samantha dies in a car crash on the eve of her school's \"Cupid Day\", she awakens once again in the morning of the same day. Has she been given a second chance? A chance to put it right? To solve the mystery? To prevent her death? For the next seven days, Samantha wakes up on February 12. She must learn the truth behind her unfortunate end and, by doing so, she finds herself tangled up in the lives of those she'd cared little for before. The novel's strength is both in the overarching story and its outcome, and also in the details . So many characters are affected by Samantha's actions and they become more and more developed and complex as Samantha learns to really see them . Every character is handled with sympathy, turning mean girls, losers and geeks into human beings, each with their own story. It is a lesson on the dangers of bullying and how careless actions can have a huge negative impact on someone's life. But it also offers an understanding and sometimes sympathetic view of the people who do the bullying. It's such an interesting, multi-layered story. Moving, thoughtful, and just as powerful the second time around. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Pinterest ...more I hated this book, and loved it. It\u2019s cruel, and frustrating, unfair, and yet it\u2019s also sad, and hopeful, and honest and authentic. I\u2019m not sure how everyone else feels about their High School experience, but I despised mine. You couldn\u2019t pay me to go back. However, this story was so vivid, that I felt as though I could smell the grease from the cafeteria, feel the rough tile on the bathroom floor and the chill of that cold fateful night. I even cringed at the hurt that all these characters so c I hated this book, and loved it. It\u2019s cruel, and frustrating, unfair, and yet it\u2019s also sad, and hopeful, and honest and authentic. I\u2019m not sure how everyone else feels about their High School experience, but I despised mine. You couldn\u2019t pay me to go back. However, this story was so vivid, that I felt as though I could smell the grease from the cafeteria, feel the rough tile on the bathroom floor and the chill of that cold fateful night. I even cringed at the hurt that all these characters so casually inflicted upon one another, so I guess I went back after all. Sam is not a nice girl. In fact, she is a bit of a bitch. Scratch that, she is a bitch. She doesn\u2019t set out to maliciously attack anyone, but she doesn\u2019t stand against it either. She won\u2019t instigate the chant of \u201cpsycho\u201d at the school outcast, but she shouts it just as loudly as her group of popular she witches. Worse, she actually believes that others should just accept the way they are mercilessly attacked because she was once mocked in the third grade for blushing, as if blushing were the equivalent to being called a whore, who bared the goods for grass when the person at the butt of that malicious lie doesn\u2019t smoke or has even been kissed. Naturally, when Samantha meets an unfortunate end after forcing us to spend a day in her insipid world, I hardly felt bad for her. How sad is that? A teen girl dies tragically, and I thought she got what she deserved. Thus is the beauty of this book. Told in seven chapters, each representing the same day, Before I Fall tells the story of a typically popular girl, who gets six days to right some wrongs. Make no mistake. I hardly think one day is sufficient to mend the hurt that these girls created. It in no way rectifies the things that Samantha has done, but it\u2019s a start in the right direction. Rather, I felt this story allowed readers to realize that there is depth to us all, even the bitches and we all have thoughts that should shame us. The character development of all the characters was astounding, and the character growth, drastic though it may be, was entirely believable. ...more Before I get to the review I just wanted to let everyone know I don't typically write reviews for books I love. The reason being, I'm not good at writing worth-while and positive reviews (as opposed to my uncanny ability to write crazy rants about books I totally loathe). Or rather, I know I'm not up to the task: writing a review worthy of a book so beautiful, so eloquently written I can't stop thinking about it long after I've finished it. I know there is nothing I could say that could not be b Before I get to the review I just wanted to let everyone know I don't typically write reviews for books I love. The reason being, I'm not good at writing worth-while and positive reviews (as opposed to my uncanny ability to write crazy rants about books I totally loathe). Or rather, I know I'm not up to the task: writing a review worthy of a book so beautiful, so eloquently written I can't stop thinking about it long after I've finished it. I know there is nothing I could say that could not be better said by the book itself, or even just a review written by someone who is smarter than me has a way with words. That said, here I am, attempting to write a review worthy of Before I Fall. If I fail, which is more than likely, please do not hold it against the book--it isn't the book's fault I'm not a talented writer. So without further ado... Popular girl Samantha Kingston thinks a lot about the what she's done throughout her seventeen years of life as she relives her last day over and over again. In all, Samantha is given seven chances to figure out what went wrong, what chain of events brought about her death. Seven opportunities to change and make things right. Seven days to save herself. At first glance, Samantha--Sam--doesn't come across as anything special. Sure, she's popular but other than her superior social standing she's basically your average teenager. Her biggest concern is her virginity, which she will be losing to her boyfriend that night--she's freaked out but feels it's time to get it over with. Other than that she's wondering how many roses she'll have by the end of Cupid Day and if she looks okay considering she didn't get to shower that morning. However, it doesn't take long before we're given a better, more accurate picture of the type of person Samantha Kingston truly is. Over the course of the day she cheats on a test, flirts shamelessly with her calculus teacher, cuts class, gets pretty drunk and treats her classmates like garbage--Sam and her friends are especially cruel to one girl in particular. All in all it's an average school day for Samantha Kingston. Clearly I didn't like Samantha Kingston at the beginning of this novel. She's a horrible self-absorbed teenager. What's worse is the fact that she thinks so highly of herself and her friends, saying: \"I'm not going to lie, though. It's nice that everything's easy for us. It's a good feeling knowing you can basically do whatever you want and there won't be any consequences.\" And then goes on to say: \"If high school were a game of poker, Lindsey, Ally, Elody and I would be holding 80 percent of the cards.\" After Sam finishes recounting her last day--in which she clearly does not come out looking good--she tells us about how she died, then says: \"Before you start pointing fingers, let me ask you: is what I did really so bad? So bad I deserved to die? So bad I deserved to die like that? Is what I did really so much worse than what anybody else does? Is it really so much worse than what you do? Think about it.\" Like everyone else I went to high school with girls like Samantha Kingston and her friends. And like most everyone else I haaaaated those girls. So. Much. Who wants to read a story about a bunch of horrible teenagers? No one. But you know what? Turns out when I was seventeen I was not that much better than Samantha Kingston. Sure I wasn't a total A-hole, but the truth is I gossiped, lied, cheated, cut class--the works. And I treated a lot of people badly--peers and adults. But I haven't really spent too much time thinking about the person I was in high school. Not until Sam asks us, the readers, if what she did is so much worse than what we do. That's why I kept reading. As Sam relives February 12 we see her grow and change. At first her attempts at being a better person are so half-hearted, or ill-concieved you wonder if she's actually trying. And yeah, as the reader I got frustrated with Sam. I wanted to see her change right away, and she didn't. Then I remembered she's a spoiled teenager that hasn't been made to work for anything in her life. Remember, it was Sam herself who admitted: \"It's nice that everything's easy for us. It's a good feeling knowing you can basically do whatever you want and there won't be any consequences.\" That's Sam's mentality at the beginning of this story, her reality, so of course she has no clue how to truly change, to be the better person. However, not many February 12ths pass when a horrifying turn of events forces Sam to acknowledge the ugly truth. Sam takes a good look at herself, at her friends, and what she sees drives her to an all-time low--when Sam hits bottom she really hits bottom. Sam needs that low point, the chance to spiral out of control, even if it's just for one day because it is only after she's humbled we see her make any significant changes. She starts to look at all she has (or rather, had) and be grateful for it. She looks at her family in a whole new light, and realizes just how much she truly loves them. She looks at her little sister specifically--a sweet little seven-year-old who is proud of who she is--and realizes she admires her little sister because she embraces the things that make her different from all her peers. After Sam's low point her thoughts, her ideas become downright beautiful/amazing. There were many times I stopped to reread passages, and even consider them for a bit. Example: \"Maybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around in it, let it slide like coins through your fingers. So much time you can waste it. But for some of us there's only today. And the truth is, you never really know.\" It's at this point that my feelings from this book went from like to love. And no, Sam still doesn't get things right away. She still struggles, but the important part is she's really trying, really working. She learns from her mistakes and makes corrections. Sam realizes, despite her belief that she can't be fixed, it's never too late to change. Some of Sam's changes don't come about until the 11th hour, but they do come . And yes, I love how this book ends. I know there are many people who simply didn't like this book because of how it ends, and for the life of me I cannot understand why. Any other ending would have been a complete cop-out ( think about it ). Plus, (view spoiler) [I happen to like ambiguous endings because they give me the opportunity to think about what I just read--I can draw my own conclusions. I'm not going to say anything more about the ending, I don't want to spoil it for anyone. (hide spoiler) ] I love this book, it is one of my favorites. I haven't been able to stop thinking about this book since I finished reading it two weeks ago, and because of that it will always have a home on my bookshelf. By the way, I've spent an embarrassingly long amount of time trying to cobble together a semi-decent review of this book. Now go purchase a copy of Before I Fall, stat, you won't be sorry. P.S. this book deserves six stars. Update April 4, 2010: my husband, who typically doesn't like any of the books I like, just stayed up all night reading Before I Fall. When he finished it he woke me up to thank me for all but shoving this book down his throat (and he wasn't being ironic. Believe me, I checked). He sincerely likes this book. More than anything he loves the way Lauren Oliver writes, but overall he likes the story quite a bit. It was nice talking to him about it this morning, we had a very pleasant discussion. :) ...more I'd heard from quite a few people that this book was pretty good... That may be the most OUTRAGEOUS understatement of all time. 'Pretty good' doesn't explain the embarrassing amount of tears that poured out of me. 'Pretty good' doesn't touch on Lauren Oliver's incredible way with words and imagery. 'Pretty good' doesn't describe the range of conflicting emotions the story sparked in me. And 'Pretty good' certainly doesn't account for the fact that, once I finished the final page, I literally threw t I'd heard from quite a few people that this book was pretty good... That may be the most OUTRAGEOUS understatement of all time. 'Pretty good' doesn't explain the embarrassing amount of tears that poured out of me. 'Pretty good' doesn't touch on Lauren Oliver's incredible way with words and imagery. 'Pretty good' doesn't describe the range of conflicting emotions the story sparked in me. And 'Pretty good' certainly doesn't account for the fact that, once I finished the final page, I literally threw the book at my husband and demanded he re-write the final chapter. ... but the ending is a whole other discussion for which I have no time/energy to get into. But aside from the infuriating conclusion, this book was out-effing-standing. It had my absolute undivided attention EVEN THOUGH I was reading it while last nights episode of Hotel Babylon was on and I didn't even stop reading when, out of the corner of my little eye, I saw Charlie take his shirt off. NOT EVEN THEN! Ahem... So no, pretty good doesn't exactly cover it. But why take my word for it? \"Maybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through your fingers. So much time you can waste it. But for some of us there's only today. And the truth is, you never really know.\" You see? It almost got that final 5th star. Almost. In fact, let's give it a grand total of four-and-three-quarters stars and call it a day. ...more 3.5/5 Though I really enjoy Lauren Oliver's writing style, I struggled finding the motivation to finish this book. The main character, a popular and catty high school girl named Sam, dies and is forced to relive that day several times. I was absolutely in love with the story for the first couple of days, but then it felt tedious having Sam wake up and relive February 12th time and time again. I totally understand why it's many people's favorite book, I just wish it was shorter. Because of this, I 3.5/5 Though I really enjoy Lauren Oliver's writing style, I struggled finding the motivation to finish this book. The main character, a popular and catty high school girl named Sam, dies and is forced to relive that day several times. I was absolutely in love with the story for the first couple of days, but then it felt tedious having Sam wake up and relive February 12th time and time again. I totally understand why it's many people's favorite book, I just wish it was shorter. Because of this, I do think it will make a fabulous movie and I can't wait to see it when it hits theaters! ...more Warning: Major Spoilers below (including the very ending). And foul language. MUCH foul language La la la, spoilers. Still spoilers. And language to make your grandmother blush. Fuck you book. Fuck. You. I want to drop this book to two stars for that goddamn ending . But I can\u2019t because even with that fucking ending it is not really a two-star book at all. So it gets dropped one star. DAMN YOU. I knew the ending was coming. This is the problem with reading the ending first (well, near the beginning). Warning: Major Spoilers below (including the very ending). And foul language. MUCH foul language La la la, spoilers. Still spoilers. And language to make your grandmother blush. Fuck you book. Fuck. You. I want to drop this book to two stars for that goddamn ending . But I can\u2019t because even with that fucking ending it is not really a two-star book at all. So it gets dropped one star. DAMN YOU. I knew the ending was coming. This is the problem with reading the ending first (well, near the beginning). I think I\u2019d have been even angrier if I hadn\u2019t known, though, because I\u2019d be expecting that it would have a Groundhog Day's ending and Sam, having learned her lesson on being a better person, would get to enjoy the new, better life she\u2019s created. But no. She stays dead. FUCK YOU BOOK. I get your point, Oliver . Sam\u2019s real mission was to sacrifice herself for Juliet. That\u2019s what she came back seven days for, to be Juliet\u2019s guardian angel or something. You know what? FUCK THAT. Because Juliet might be better off, but everyone else in Sam\u2019s life? You don\u2019t think it will completely devastate her family? Her little sister? Her parents? Do you know what the divorce rate is for parents who have lost a child?!?!? It\u2019s not like they remember the other days Sam lived after death, either. So their last memories of her will be a wholly inadequate moment before Sam ran off to school and was nice and not a brat. Not a whole day together, not a dinner out, nothing big or something to hold onto. AND WHAT ABOUT KENT?!?!?!? He gets to see the girl he loves\u2014who has just stopped being a bitch and admitted she likes him\u2014die. How horrible. Really think he\u2019s going to be okay, Oliver? Really think you didn\u2019t just fuck up the most sympathetic character in your entire book? Scratch that, the two most sympathetic characters in your book (adorable little sister Izzy and adorable, amazing Kent)!?!?! Just because we don\u2019t get to see the tragedy rip through everyone\u2019s life like a bomb and you have Sam give some bullshit uplifting monologue at the end doesn\u2019t make it okay . Do you know why Groundhog Day doesn\u2019t end with Bill Murray dead? BECAUSE NOBODY WANTS TO SEE THAT ENDING!!! We want to see him ride off into the sunset with Andie Macdowell, both happier and better. WE DON\u2019T WANT TO SEE BILL MURRAY\u2019S GODDAMN FUNERAL!!! GAAAAAHHHHHH. The book started out slowly, and Sam is a right proper bitch to begin with. It isn\u2019t until afterlife day five (she gets seven days) that she begins to turn around. Although the complete fucking breakdown of day four was glorious . I think I\u2019m a masochist, because I love angry, self-destructive, insane meltdowns by heroines, especially when they end with the realization that there was no beauty in the breakdown, that it was a horrible, horrible mess and that instead of feeling free they feel even worse than before. And I especially love it when they are comforted by adorable, awesome love interests like Kent. Although set-up Sam was annoying (though realistic, ouch), when Sam developed and stopped being so shallow and self-absorbed I loved her. And I loved her even more for knowing how horrid she had been. There was so much development, and it all rang true. WHICH MADE THE ENDING EVEN WORSE. You know what, Oliver? I don\u2019t feel bad anymore for thinking your Delirium was a pathetic piece of crap cashing in on the post-Hunger Games dystopian YA craze. Because at least it will prevent you from DESTROYING MY SOUL for however many years it takes you to finish writing your idiotically premised trilogy (a society that hates love? Really? Really ?). Maybe by then you will have learned a lesson and not written such, terrible, terrible endings to what otherwise could be a five star-level book. I actually contemplated hurling this book at the wall when I finished it, but it is 2am and I am a guest in someone else\u2019s house and I don\u2019t want to be rude. Now I\u2019m going to pretend that the ending didn\u2019t happen and Kent and Sam live happily ever after and both go to college in Boston and show up happily married at Izzy\u2019s high school graduation and everyone isn\u2019t destroyed by grief because Sam threw herself into a truck for Juliet. Don't think I can't, Oliver, because I've managed to half-convince myself over the years that Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon ends with Jen & Lo and Li Mu Bai & Yu Shu Lien happily married with beautiful babies and everyone hanging out and kung fu fighting together (the real ending made me angry for days). So, Oliver , when I think about this book in the future (IF I THINK ABOUT IT AT ALL), don't think I wont' half-believe that Kent and Sam are happily married with beautiful babies (AND MAYBE EVEN KUNG FU FIGHTING, I DON'T KNOW!!!). P.S. If you are masochistic enough to read the book after this review, listen to \u201cOnly If You Run\u201d by Julian Plenti on Days 5-7. It is awesome and if this ever gets made into a movie (WITH A BETTER ENDING) it has to be on the soundtrack. Addendum: Okay, I\u2019ve calmed down a bit and got some sleep and now am more coherent and less blindingly angry. And I\u2019ve figured out why the ending bothered me so much: it was a cheap trick. Partly because it feels like Oliver\u2019s response to those who will identify this as Groundhog Day meets Mean Girls (which it totally is, but in a good way). The ending seems to scream, \u201cIt might be like those movies, but look how much deeper this is. The main character dies . You don\u2019t see THAT in those movies, hunh?!?\u201d But mostly because martyrdom is fiction\u2019s shorthand for redemption. And, sometimes, it works (see: my undying love for Sydney Carton in A Tale of Two Cities ). But in this book it doesn\u2019t. There\u2019s a quote banging around my head that I can\u2019t source: \u201cDying is easy. It\u2019s living that\u2019s hard.\u201d And dying was the easy way out for Sam. She spent her entire afterlife knowing that she would never have to live with the consequences of her actions. It was most obvious in the utter breakdown of day four, but it was present every single day. Throwing yourself in front of a truck can\u2019t be easy, but for Sam I think it would be even harder for her to live out the rest of high school, to have to stand up to Lindsay next time she tortured Juliet or wrote nasty graffiti about other girls or spread rumors about how so-and-so was such a slut or tried to talk Sam out of dating a social loser like Kent. Dealing with that every single day and knowing she had to live with the ramifications of her actions would be a true test of character for Sam. Could she do it? Could she stand up to the constant social pressure? Could she stand up to her friends ? To Lindsay? Could she be nice to people and defend them and not let her friends be cruel? Could she risk being unpopular? Or would she slide back to the easier path, staying silent, telling herself it\u2019s not her fault because she didn\u2019t start it, that she saved Juliet\u2019s life that one time, so her karmic debt is paid? A better ending would have Sam not be able to return to normal until she stands up for Juliet at the party. Not try to talk Juliet out of suicide in private. Not avoid future consequences by dying. But being there when Juliet walks into the party and Lindsay starts a chant of \u201cPscyho! Psycho!\u201d Standing in front of everyone , in front of all her friends and peers, and telling them all to shut it, to stop being mean to Juliet. To tell everyone that Juliet\u2019s not weird, that they need to grow up and stop being such bullies. And then to wake up the next day and go to school and deal with the fallout of that . And actually befriend Juliet and deal with whatever the social consequences are. A less shocking ending, yeah. But a more satisfying one. ...more I honestly wanted to finish this book so it could go towards my 2012 reading challenge, but it was JUST SO BORING. I really couldn't care less what happened to the characters, and they were all so bitchy that I just couldn't stand reading about them anymore. I'm sure this Samantha girl will have some epiphany towards the end where she realizes that the way she's been treating people is wrong, then she'll finally move on and actually die like she should have a while ago. I don't see the point in I honestly wanted to finish this book so it could go towards my 2012 reading challenge, but it was JUST SO BORING. I really couldn't care less what happened to the characters, and they were all so bitchy that I just couldn't stand reading about them anymore. I'm sure this Samantha girl will have some epiphany towards the end where she realizes that the way she's been treating people is wrong, then she'll finally move on and actually die like she should have a while ago. I don't see the point in reading this when I'm almost positive that this is how it will end. ...more I had high expectations for this book for 2 reasons: 1. I loved Delirium, it's one of my favorite series and 2. so many people raved about Before I fall , saying it is the best of Oliver's work. I couldn't disagree more. At the beginning I couldn't get into the story, it was a bit repetitive, so I had to put it down and read something else in the meantime. In the end I was getting a bit frustrated as I couldn't understand the whole idea of the book. Having finished it yesterday I've been thinkin I had high expectations for this book for 2 reasons: 1. I loved Delirium, it's one of my favorite series and 2. so many people raved about Before I fall , saying it is the best of Oliver's work. I couldn't disagree more. At the beginning I couldn't get into the story, it was a bit repetitive, so I had to put it down and read something else in the meantime. In the end I was getting a bit frustrated as I couldn't understand the whole idea of the book. Having finished it yesterday I've been thinking about it since and I still don't get it. Let me explain why... The whole story is focused on Sam's last day and her death in a car accident. Afterwards she keeps reliving it, no matter what she does when she wakes up it's still Friday the 12. The main thing I have a problem with is the dimension she is in, first I was hoping it's kind of coma and she will come back to life, but no she (or her soul?) keeps existing in a kind of a limbo and is trying to move on. Final conclusion of the book is that she had to learn to sacrifice her life (remember she's already dead) in order to move on, where? why? no explanation whatsoever. She just dies one last time and that's it. And even tho she does change during the whole journey, and also learns all the awful things her fiend did (including driving someone to suicide) she still loves her because she's her friend, really? I understand Oliver tried to write a book about cruel reality of teenage life and high school, wanted to pass a message of values more important than money or popularity. That I understand, everything else not so much. The book is well written, and if you don't focus too much no the metaphysical dimension of it you might enjoy it. I think that was my problem, I put too much thought into it. Unfortunately I was not affected by it and didn't enjoy it as much as I thought I would. ...more Reading through Sam's last day of life, I was transported back to high school with those girls who were shallow, self-centered, and unaware and thought they were cool and better than everyone else because they were shallow, self-centered, and unaware. I felt emotions I had not experienced in years, emotions I had long forgotten. Oliver captures that teenage-centric narcissism so vividly, so much more intently than I ever understood in high school, that I couldn't help but hate Sam and feel some Reading through Sam's last day of life, I was transported back to high school with those girls who were shallow, self-centered, and unaware and thought they were cool and better than everyone else because they were shallow, self-centered, and unaware. I felt emotions I had not experienced in years, emotions I had long forgotten. Oliver captures that teenage-centric narcissism so vividly, so much more intently than I ever understood in high school, that I couldn't help but hate Sam and feel some level of vindictive justice. As she starts the same day over again, just as full of herself, I doubted Sam could grow enough to satisfy me. But she did. It was slow and painstaking at times; sometimes I wanted Sam to just get it and be fixed, but that wouldn't have been realistic. She needed to figure it out on her own and at her own pace. Oliver does an excellent job showing us that gradual shift from spoiled teenager to thoughtful person, realizing that there were consequences to her actions, that the universe did not revolve around her, that maybe popularity wasn't worth the price she'd paid for it. While I don't think Sam reached perfect self-actualization, I don't think I wanted her to. She had a long way to come and I believed a character that was aware but still a little bit selfish. Oliver is an amazing writer, so unobtrusive and descriptive. I didn't so much read this book as experience it. She manages to keep a day that is lived over and over again from being repetitive and gives us enough events in that day to give Sam plenty of chances to both mess up and unmess other people's lives. She manages to take a story that doesn't sound very original (Mean Girls vs. Groundhog Day) and own it. She manages to make me care about a girl that I couldn't stand, that represents very real girls that I couldn't stand (but not Lindsay; I never liked her). (view spoiler) [My only disappointment was that the day before the last seemed more perfect than the last. Not for Sam, who learned to fall (or fly), but for everyone else. Especially Kent. I think you can interpret the last day two ways: either Sam learned what she needed to learn to move on, or the final day was the way that day was fated to be and Sam needed to get to a point where she could make that sacrifice. It makes no difference to her, but it makes a difference to everyone else. Which day do they remember? If it's the first, that's too bad for Sam and the mess she left. If it's the last, she left a lot of people with unanswered questions. I get that she couldn't focus on Kent, but she teased him and gave him too little. Even though the day wasn't about him, I still wanted Sam to leave him with an apology and a goodbye. I think Sam believed the last day only happened in her memory and a perfect day included a goodbye kiss to Kent, but then she bothered to give Anna that book and Izzy her necklace and save Juliet. I think a part of her still wanted to leave a legacy. I wanted to believe that last day for Sam and Juliet and Kent and maybe even a little bit for Lindsay. Maybe I didn't hate her so much after all. I keep going back and forth on what day is the real day. Sometimes I think the first one is an obvious choice, but then there are things about the last day that make me think that maybe that one was real. Especially with Juliet. It's like Sam was being told \"you're dead anyway. You can be selfish and claim that day, or you can use it to save someone's life.\" And that goes for Lindsay too. Getting drunk and killing your best friend would have messed her up. I think I believe the last day. At least I hope it. I love the ambiguity of it, but that it doesn't feel ambiguous. When you close the book, you know what happened, even though it could be interpreted on different levels. Either way, Sam took seven days to grow into the person she needed to be. For as sad as the ending is, there is so much redemption in. And that's what it's about, Sam's redemption, not Juliet's or Lindsey's or anyone else's. As hard as she tried, there was nothing she could do to affect change in anyone else. Lindsey can take the wake up call of her friend's death to change into a better person; Juliet can take Sam's sacrifice to get her through high school; or they can keep going on their set paths. Their redemption is up to them; all Sam could do was take what little she could in one day to encourage change in a lot of people. I can see this having an affect on teenage girls who might be caught up in their own lives and learn these lessons along with Sam. I'm an adult and I'll be thinking about this one for awhile. There's something amazing in Sam's growth and for that she gets five stars. (hide spoiler) ] ...more \"Before I Fall\" is Lauren Oliver's debut novel and I think for a first effort it is pretty good. The premise of the book is not too original - it is a sort of cross between \"Mean Girls\" and \"The Groundhog Day,\" but Oliver develops it well. Samantha, one of her school's mean girls, relives her last day over and over again, learning more about herself and people around her with each replay. Will she learn enough to make a difference, to change her attitude and her life? Being a foreigner, I was spa \"Before I Fall\" is Lauren Oliver's debut novel and I think for a first effort it is pretty good. The premise of the book is not too original - it is a sort of cross between \"Mean Girls\" and \"The Groundhog Day,\" but Oliver develops it well. Samantha, one of her school's mean girls, relives her last day over and over again, learning more about herself and people around her with each replay. Will she learn enough to make a difference, to change her attitude and her life? Being a foreigner, I was spared the misfortune of being bullied by mean girls, I don't have any experiences of Samanthas and Lindsays of this world. Therefore I am guessing my opinion of the book is somewhat skewed. I don't hate Samantha and her friends, instead I find this gang amusing in a dysfunctional way and feel sorry for them. Samantha seems to be an extremely unaware person, with low self esteem who doesn't even realize that she is constantly mistreated by her boyfriend, she is directionless and has almost no aspirations beyond getting drunk with her friends and sleeping with her boyfriend. Isn't that a total waste of life? I don't hate the girls, because there are always those people who lash out at others and bring people down to hide their own insecurities. There is nothing new about it. What I find appalling is the complacency of people around them - their classmates, parents, school officials. How can these 4 teenage girls have a free rein of the school, how can they possibly influence everyone around them? It literally boggles my mind. Why every girl so eagerly calls another one a slut or psycho when she can be at any moment the recipient of the same fate? It this is not a dumb herd mentality, I don't know what is. It is a scary thing in these days of school shootings and student suicides. But I digress... I liked the book a lot, it is certainly a page turner and Samantha's road to self-awareness is compelling. However the ending is fairly unsatisfying IMO. I expected Samantha to face the consequences of her actions, to find a road to redemption, but I didn't think she would achieve this \"redemption\" so easily and would also be rewarded with a nice guy in the end. I personally don't think she ever completely owns up to her actions, never fully acknowledges her part in Juliet Sykes' demise and never confronts her friends. The whole time Samantha is more interested in hooking up with Kent than in saving a life or at least pointing to her friends the things she has learned. Whatever \"sacrifice\" she makes in the end doesn't make a difference. In reality I think everything would be on the same track the next day - bullying, vicious gossiping, taunting of Juliet by Lindsay. So, what is the point of this experience for Samantha? To convince herself she is not so bad after all because she can do a couple of nice things like giving her little sis a necklace and sending Juliet a rose? Not enough IMO. But regardless of my general disagreement with the outcome of the story, \"Before I Fall\" is a memorable novel. It is poignant in the portrayal of school bullying, and its effect on people, it is thought provoking and definitely current. I will probably check out Lauren Oliver's future works. ...more well, well, well, this one was a surprise. yes, teen fiction, you have won me over, but usually it is the stuff on the \"oh, no, the world has been essploded!!\" or \"oh, no - all the cats in the world have turned evil and are coming for us!!\" end of the spectrum that captivates me. realistic teen fiction usually leaves me cold. and this is realistic teen fiction with a twist, obviously. this is groundhog day with a jerky teen girl in he jerky bill murray role. but all the day-to-day bits in between a well, well, well, this one was a surprise. yes, teen fiction, you have won me over, but usually it is the stuff on the \"oh, no, the world has been essploded!!\" or \"oh, no - all the cats in the world have turned evil and are coming for us!!\" end of the spectrum that captivates me. realistic teen fiction usually leaves me cold. and this is realistic teen fiction with a twist, obviously. this is groundhog day with a jerky teen girl in he jerky bill murray role. but all the day-to-day bits in between are simple, realistic teen fiction. and it won me over. i could not stop reading this book. i was totally sucked in to the story, the narrator's \"do thoughtless things unto others\" mentality, and the comeuppance. (oh, i love justice. i love comeuppance) samantha is pretty and popular and easily swayed. seduced by the cult of lindsay, she forgets how to be a decent person and gets brainwashed into performing casual cruelties without even thinking about them; they become her default setting, so much so that she doesn't even remember half of them. those may be my favorite scenes, when a character is reminding samantha of some mean thing she has done and she doesn't even remember . it has become such a knee-jerk response for her - to be mean, that it is not even conscious enough for her to retain memories of it. good stuff. there are a ton of weakly-written moments/characters/subplots but there is just so much momentum to the story that you barely notice it while you are reading, and only really notice it if, say, you start sitting down to write a book review of it. the party scene/s is/are very well-written, though. i didn't drink in high school because i observed how idiotic teenagers were when intoxicated, so i never went to parties. i hosted small gatherings at my house where i would cook, let's call them \"munchies,\" for a select group of friends and everyone was calm and chill and nothing got broken and no one puked and the music was good. those party scenes terrified me.i cannot think of anything worse than a drunken teen party. even when i was a teen. i loved this book, but all the characters were awful. they are always laughing over stupid things, and you can just feel that laughter - shrill and desperate and competitive. picture that drunk. oooh, no thanks. favorite line - after a passage about clothing conformity in her school, \"it's connecticut: being like the people around you is the whole point.\" surprisingly good read. damn you, teen fiction! ...more Goodreads Exclusive Prelude: If you have not read this, or given it at least four-and-a-half stars, you have no soul. Oh . . . Oh, my God . . . Five stars. Five billion stars. Five quadrillion stars. Five infinity stars. I don't think I'll ever read a book that'll touch me in quite the same way. A lot of Goodreadsers didn't like Before I Fall because they couldn't relate to it at all and the characters didn't relate to them. Before I Fall did relate to me because the main character, Samantha Kingsto Goodreads Exclusive Prelude: If you have not read this, or given it at least four-and-a-half stars, you have no soul. Oh . . . Oh, my God . . . Five stars. Five billion stars. Five quadrillion stars. Five infinity stars. I don't think I'll ever read a book that'll touch me in quite the same way. A lot of Goodreadsers didn't like Before I Fall because they couldn't relate to it at all and the characters didn't relate to them. Before I Fall did relate to me because the main character, Samantha Kingston, reminded me a lot of my best friend. I know, I know, that sounds bad, but I am in high school, and the things the people do in this book are scarily accurate to what I've come to know is high school over the past year and a half. (view spoiler) [Even the teacher-lust thing. Two teachers got arrested last year for having relations with students. Creepy, huh? And I go to a really good school! (hide spoiler) ] I never knew Before I Fall would have such an impact on my life. I saw it at Walmart about two years ago, and I kind of wish I would've gotten it then, because the book is indescribable in mere words. I don't even think any songs could describe it. The teen voice in the novel is perfect. Oliver says things like I spot Amy Weiss -- probably the biggest gossip in the entire school -- making out with Oren Talmadge in the doorway like she's starving and his mouth is filled with Cheetos , and silly, corny stuff like that that only a high-schooler could say without sounding contrived. The book had some beautiful quotes, too, like Time and space recede and blast away like a universe expanding outward, leaving only darkness and the two of us on its periphery, darkness and breathing and touch . Oliver wrote a truly beautiful novel that's touched me in more than one dimension. This novel shines through from the core, vulnerable, beautiful, transcendent. Before I Fall is a classic of this generation. It may not be 100 years old, but it has the emotional poignancy that deserves heavy praise. Please, people, if you only read one book in your entire life, let it be this one. ...more I have no idea how to rate this book. I would say 5 stars to author Lauren Oliver in taking juveniles with a blatant disregard for humanity and turning it into the story of Sam who discovers the importance of humanity. Some of the thoughts that Sam would think as she would pass from one day to the next were beautifully thoughtful causing you to question how you treat and respect the people and things we have. How do we (ourselves) treat individual people? How much affect do we have on the world I have no idea how to rate this book. I would say 5 stars to author Lauren Oliver in taking juveniles with a blatant disregard for humanity and turning it into the story of Sam who discovers the importance of humanity. Some of the thoughts that Sam would think as she would pass from one day to the next were beautifully thoughtful causing you to question how you treat and respect the people and things we have. How do we (ourselves) treat individual people? How much affect do we have on the world (people) around us? I think it is a thought provoking book. So I would give the author 5 stars to make us question how we treat others. But all the other parts of the book, in order to get her point across, were rough and depressing to read. I struggled through the majority of the book because of these 4 teenage girls and their behavior to others. There lack of caring was sorrowing for me the reader. The book may have been realistic but it was depressing to read. Thus is the reason for the 1 star rating. ...more Update: Since it's going to be a movie I decided to re-visit my review and share my own story. \u201cI know some of you are thinking maybe I deserved it. But before you start pointing fingers, is what I did really so bad? So bad I deserved to die? So bad I deserved to die like THAT? Is what I did really so much worse than what anybody else does? Is it really so much worse than what YOU do? Think about it.\u201d Sam's got everything she's ever hoped for: looks, popularity, the perfect boyfriend, and everyon Update: Since it's going to be a movie I decided to re-visit my review and share my own story. \u201cI know some of you are thinking maybe I deserved it. But before you start pointing fingers, is what I did really so bad? So bad I deserved to die? So bad I deserved to die like THAT? Is what I did really so much worse than what anybody else does? Is it really so much worse than what YOU do? Think about it.\u201d Sam's got everything she's ever hoped for: looks, popularity, the perfect boyfriend, and everyone at her feet. All's well as she's headed off to college in a year with her best friends, and shes finally got someone to lose her V-card too. What could go wrong? And even if something does happen, she'll always have tomorrow. Then time stops. There's no more tomorrow, no second chances, no good morning. A single night, a trail of events, strings attached together leading to this moment. Death. But Sam wakes up, again, and again, and again. Having to relive her last day in hopes that she can make things right. That maybe there's a possibility of saving herself, or at least a chance to save her soul. Writing: 9.5/10 Pace: 7/10 Message: 9/10 Characters & Plot: 10/10 I know a lot of people DID NOT like Samantha's character, which I find understandable. Some people chose not to like this novel in courtesy of people who've been bullied. I for one DID enjoy the authors message and writing. Though Samantha and I are very different individuals we are also very alike . I am not one to dive into my past, as I like to keep those memories away from my mind. I do still think it's important to share my story, for any young girls reading this novel and going through a tough time, or for the ones trying to fit in. I know both sides, I've been on the outside and on the inside of the spectrum. Back when I was twelve, I remember having a shell of confidence, which prevented me from getting teased sometimes. That is what I recalled it as, teasing. Sadly a few days ago I found my diary from when I was at that fragile age. I was not the person I was thought to be. After reading it I realized, that not only was my confidence an act, but that I was on the verge of suicide. I was being bullied. I wrote multiple entry's on how I couldn't take it anymore . How I wasn't enough , that no one liked me, I was too ugly, or too fat Whilst all this, I was already diagnosed with an eating disorder (anorexia). You see I was much like Juliet and Samantha before (Samantha was also bullied in middle school). ...Later, after undergoing therapy and regaining my mental health, I moved to a new school . This was my final year of middle school, year eight. This time I vowed to no longer be the girl who was on the \"outside\". I became someone I wasn't. I wanted everyone to regret ever calling me those awful names. So that morning for school, I asked my mother to make me look \"pretty\" with makeup. It worked. I was suddenly popular . For the first time in my life, people were looking up to ME . They wanted MY friendship. I was told how \"pretty\" I was. I thought this would make me happy, but I was still the same girl. Still seeking approval , and still wanting to fit this ideal of \"perfect\". Now I could tell you what an awful person I became like Sam, but I did not. Again, I was still the same person. Unlike Sam, I didn't become the people who hurt me. I will not deny that I said some things I wish I hadn't, I lied and I even hurt people that considered me a friend. I did not though, poke fun at people's appearances, or intentionally try to hurt them. While I was \"popular\" I had all the opportunities to become the bully. Honestly, if that's what my group of friends was about, I probably would have gone along with it. Does that make me a horrid person? I guess you could judge me. But if you were only 13 and given the option to never be made fun of again, you would have taken it too. ...That entire year I focused on improving my social image. I made people admire me, in hopes, that maybe someday , I would see myself the way they saw me. Much like Samantha, I would sometimes look in the mirror and not recognize myself at all. How could I change so much, yet change so little? Which was what the narrator asked herself as well. Though today I am no longer that person I was back then, I still feel the imprint of my experience. I want to remind other's that being \"popular\" is not at all what it's glorified to be. You see, I was no happier than I was a few years ago, I just found a new mask to hide under. I encourage you all to look beneath the shell you've created, and possibly find, the true person which lays beneath. As I've found happiness now that I am outside those minimalist ideals, I would never return to that state. Even if you're telling yourself you would be a nice \"popular\" person, you cannot promise yourself that. I know that all too well. This book deals with the teenage mind, depression, and bullying. Usually authors either make teenagers A. act like twelve year old's or B. Like your old neighbour Frank from next door, filled with wisdom and knowledge. This novel depicts what goes on in high school and how teenagers rationalize things. It also highlights how fragile life is and how our actions affect others. The main character in \u201cBefore I Fall\u201d isn't your typical \u201crelatable\u201d lead, she's popular, and of course a teenager. These combined don't go well together. There's this thing about power, where you can use it for good or you can use it for your own good. Ms.Oliver was able to make us, or at least me sympathize with this unlikeable character. You're usually told the story from the eyes of the victim, but here you get to see it from the perpetrators point of view. I think it's important to see it from another point of view, not just the typical \u201cquiet\u201d girl. It reminds you that those people who have ever hurt you deserve a chance to change. \u201cHow is it possible, I think, to change so much and not be able to change anything at all?\u201d This book teaches you in one way or another about things you may not have even thought about. It may be difficult for you to take in the message if you're hung up on how the main character acted before. If you open your mind, and heart you'll be able to see everything this book shares. I wish I could add every beautiful quote in this book,but that's for you to find out. \u201cThe last laugh, the last cup of coffee,\u201d the last sunset, the last time you jump through a sprinkler, or eat an ice-cream cone, or stick your tongue out to catch a snowflake. You just don't know.\u201d ...more WOW. That would be my one word review for this book... WOW. I wasn't sure what to expect when I picked this up, and to say that I was utterly unprepared for it's magnificence, would be an understatement. This book evoked such strong emotion. I'm not exaggerating when I say that I was bawling by the end of the story. For me, the stories that awaken your emotions are always the most powerful and memorable. And I don't read many books like that, so when I do, it tends to really stand out. What's so in WOW. That would be my one word review for this book... WOW. I wasn't sure what to expect when I picked this up, and to say that I was utterly unprepared for it's magnificence, would be an understatement. This book evoked such strong emotion. I'm not exaggerating when I say that I was bawling by the end of the story. For me, the stories that awaken your emotions are always the most powerful and memorable. And I don't read many books like that, so when I do, it tends to really stand out. What's so interesting about this book is that I hated Samantha durning most of the book. For me, I need a personable character, especially the MC. That didn't happen right away with Before I Fall, actually it didn't happen for most of the story.... but I still couldn't put it down. I thought I had this story figured out, I thought I knew what was going to happen. But I didn't. I could see Samantha changing day by day, but I never anticipated what ultimately she had to do. Oliver didn't shy away from the authenticity of the teenage persona. It was honest portrayal, which I think teens will be appreciative of. Not to mention it has a very positive message, for everyone. Cannot wait to read more of Oliver's novels. Unbelievable! ...more *Reread* This is one of the first YA contemporaries I have read and perhaps for that alone, I\u2019m already giving this five stars. But the truth is, this book well deserves it. Lauren Oliver\u2019s writing usually has this effect on me. [Please see image for illustration.] \"Maybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through your fingers. *Reread* This is one of the first YA contemporaries I have read and perhaps for that alone, I\u2019m already giving this five stars. But the truth is, this book well deserves it. Lauren Oliver\u2019s writing usually has this effect on me. [Please see image for illustration.] \"Maybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through your fingers. So much time you can waste it. But for some of us there's only today. And the truth is, you never really know.\" This book is one of my most interesting and most unique reads as the story is told in the perspective of a young girl named Sam- mean, petty, selfish and uh, bitchy. I somehow imagine her looking like Amanda Seyfried\u2019s role in Mean Girls,only smarter. ^^ It\u2019s something new to hear the story from the POV of one of the sidekicks of the \u201cQueen Bee\u201d and what\u2019s more surprising is that the narrator seems to be dead and seems to be reliving the day she died seven times. Will she uncover the truth behind this mystery? It\u2019s up to you to find out. ^^ It's also amazing how as the reader, I gradually find myself not only empathizing with Sam but also learning and discovering layers and layers of meaning even in the most minute of details in her life. Reading the book will give you the notion that you're aching over the ending, but in truth, you are aching for the beauty of the story. ...more *5 FALLING STARS* Wow. This book is beautiful. I actually really cried when it ended, and that doesn't happen a lot! I don't get why this book doesn't have higher ratings! I found Before I Fall 's concept really unique. It's about a popular girl, Samantha, who dies and gets to relive her last day seven times. This book could've ended up being really clich\u00e9 but it really wasn't. You really get to see Samantha going through various stages like disbelief, anger, fear, realisation, rebelism and finally *5 FALLING STARS* Wow. This book is beautiful. I actually really cried when it ended, and that doesn't happen a lot! I don't get why this book doesn't have higher ratings! I found Before I Fall 's concept really unique. It's about a popular girl, Samantha, who dies and gets to relive her last day seven times. This book could've ended up being really clich\u00e9 but it really wasn't. You really get to see Samantha going through various stages like disbelief, anger, fear, realisation, rebelism and finally acceptance. I loved Sam's character development throughout the story. Truth be told, at the beginning she was a total bitch, but by reliving her last day seven times, she realizes everything she did wrong and tries, and succeeds, to become a better person in the end by thinking not only of herself but of other people. I can't possibly explain the millions of feelings this novel has made me feel. This story just felt so real to me, I laughed when Sam laughed, I cried when she cried, I felt hopeless, happy, afraid... It really made me think about my own life and all the things I could do better and the people I could be nicer to and that every day can be your last without you knowing. This books also deals with bullying, which is something I really hate but I loved reading about it here because it's really been like a slap in the face. This emotional rollercoaster left me completely speechless, I even had trouble sleeping the night after finishing this book because I just kept thinking about it. I can't believe that I've never read a Lauren Oliver book before, I definitely need more of these in my life! ...more This might be more of a 2.5 but idk. I might have liked this better if I didn't listen to the audiobook for part of it, but the narrator just gave these girls attitude with their voices and I ended up picturing the characters as that and it was so bad. Basically all the characters, especially Sam (not as much Kent) annoyed the crap out of me and I didn't really love the repetitiveness of the book (though that is the point). Most of the characters are terrible people. There is a bit of redemption, This might be more of a 2.5 but idk. I might have liked this better if I didn't listen to the audiobook for part of it, but the narrator just gave these girls attitude with their voices and I ended up picturing the characters as that and it was so bad. Basically all the characters, especially Sam (not as much Kent) annoyed the crap out of me and I didn't really love the repetitiveness of the book (though that is the point). Most of the characters are terrible people. There is a bit of redemption, but for the most part they're just still terrible. The end was pretty great and I enjoyed the book more as it went on, but the first few chapters were just too much for me. ...more This is a hard book to rate. It\u2019s in a whole different realm and I\u2019m not sure what to do. It\u2019s special. Not like in a good or bad way, but in a way that it\u2019s different. You can\u2019t compare it to anything else because\u2026it isn\u2019t like anything else. Yeah, I know I\u2019m making a lot of sense. One thing that this does is make you feel and it makes you think. Quick Overview: Samantha Kingston has everything a girl could want. She\u2019s popular, has a hunky popular boyfriend, great friends, and there seems to be This is a hard book to rate. It\u2019s in a whole different realm and I\u2019m not sure what to do. It\u2019s special. Not like in a good or bad way, but in a way that it\u2019s different. You can\u2019t compare it to anything else because\u2026it isn\u2019t like anything else. Yeah, I know I\u2019m making a lot of sense. One thing that this does is make you feel and it makes you think. Quick Overview: Samantha Kingston has everything a girl could want. She\u2019s popular, has a hunky popular boyfriend, great friends, and there seems to be no stopping her charmed life from getting even better. February 12 is Cupid\u2019s Day, a big deal for her school. She goes about the day not thinking much of anything except how many roses she\u2019ll get and feeling anxious about sleeping with boyfriend for the first time. She doesn\u2019t know that it\u2019s the day she dies. The next day though she wakes up on the same exact day. She continues to live out the same day over and over. Sometimes she dies and sometimes she doesn\u2019t but she always wakes up on February 12. I REALLY did not like the beginning of this book. Sam is shallow, mean and so caught up in high school and in herself that she actually believes that everyone wants to be like her. If you aren\u2019t already popular than you obviously want to be, right? I\u2019ve moved around enough high schools to know how the rules of popularity generally work, but I think we\u2019re all smart enough to know that not EVERYONE cares about what the heck you do! No matter how popular you are. That\u2019s another thing. I\u2019m not sure if Sam and her friends are really popular or just more infamous. I rolled my eyes when she mentioned that her school was both the booziest and had the highest suicide rate. Of course it is. Her friends are cruel, stupid and have the minds of pervy middle school (and sometimes \"grown-up\") boys. And this isn\u2019t coming from a super mature person. I still laugh at stupid fart jokes. I know\u2026it\u2019s sad. One of the days she does really inappropriate stuff. I\u2019m mean REEEALLY!!! Like she just goes around thinking about what are the most ridiculous, stupid, illegal things possible? You see the good in Sam and her friends but then it\u2019s overshadowed by their sheer stupidness. This is everything I thought during the first half of the book. I didn\u2019t actually start to like it until page 262. If I could rate these separately I\u2019d give the first half a big fat slap in the face, and the other half a gold medal with 5 huge shiny stars. The second half of the book is where you really start to feel something other than annoyed sympathy and anger towards Sam and her friends. Even though you get to know the characters during the first half, the second half is where you see their real vulnerability. And even if Sam\u2019s friends are cruel and annoying they care about each other. You see how much Sam\u2019s thinking has changed and how much she\u2019s grown. The only thing that made me push through the first half is that I knew that there had to be a point where Sam finally got it. That she finally understands she isn\u2019t reliving the same day for no reason. That she was meant to do something. There are some truly beautiful moments in here. You just want to cry at how simple and perfect they are. The moments with her sister Izzy and with Kent especially. 90%(okay maybe less, there's other good stuff too) of why I loved the second half was because of Kent. There is a reason why everyone is in love with him. He\u2019s our hero. The message of the book is really brought home at the end, which is not happy. It\u2019s very bittersweet. To really understand what the book is all about though, it\u2019s the only way it could\u2019ve ended. It\u2019s amazing though that the author can bring hope to something that seems so final, and how Sam finds a way to truly save herself. Even though the first half of the book is not the type of stuff I generally like (i.e. unlikable main characters, perverted jokes, and scenes that get pretty darn close to going THERE) the writing is beautiful throughout. It makes you ask yourself questions: What is it that you\u2019re taking for granted? What memories do you want to leave? What are your \u201cgreatest hits\u201d? This book breaks your heart, makes you want to yell, enjoy the stillness and silence of the world, grab the sun\u2019s rays, and sit bathing under the glow of the moon. It makes you realize and remember all the beautiful things that we don\u2019t even notice. Just heartbreakingly beautiful. You have to give a book major kudos for doing all that. Even if the main characters friends are pervy. ...more Wow. On *day 7* and loving this book so much. I want to slurp it up like a noodle. Finished: terrific; amazing teen voice and utterly believable characters -- the \"mean girls\" made, somehow, relatable! The story is so bittersweet, though I wished ... [SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT:] ... for a different ending for the characters (of COURSE), as a reader, I found the ending very powerful. The cumulative grief of those left behind -- left entirely to the reader Wow. On *day 7* and loving this book so much. I want to slurp it up like a noodle. Finished: terrific; amazing teen voice and utterly believable characters -- the \"mean girls\" made, somehow, relatable! The story is so bittersweet, though I wished ... [SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT:] ... for a different ending for the characters (of COURSE), as a reader, I found the ending very powerful. The cumulative grief of those left behind -- left entirely to the reader's imagination -- is haunting. And how wonderful is Kent? Love him. My new book boyfriend :-) ...more Initial reaction: Heartbreakingly beautiful. This was my first Lauren Oliver book and boy, did it deliver. It was such a conflicting read, both infuriating and heartbreaking. It started a bit rocky for me, because I did not. like. the protagonist. at. all. It was hard reading about the things she thought and did and at times, I had to force myself to keep going. But that was the aim of the book - to make the reader see and understand certain things, with everything coming full circle at the end. Initial reaction: Heartbreakingly beautiful. This was my first Lauren Oliver book and boy, did it deliver. It was such a conflicting read, both infuriating and heartbreaking. It started a bit rocky for me, because I did not. like. the protagonist. at. all. It was hard reading about the things she thought and did and at times, I had to force myself to keep going. But that was the aim of the book - to make the reader see and understand certain things, with everything coming full circle at the end. From Goodreads: \u201cFor popular high school senior Samantha Kingston, February 12\u2014\"Cupid Day\"\u2014should be one big party, a day of valentines and roses and the privileges that come with being at the top of the social pyramid. And it is\u2026until she dies in a terrible accident that night. However, she still wakes up the next morning. In fact, Sam lives the last day of her life seven times, until she realizes that by making even the slightest changes, she may hold more power than she ever imagined.\u201d It\u2019s very rarely that I get to read a book from the perspective of the popular girl. It\u2019s usually always the social outcast, the nerd, the invisible girl, who is the protagonist of the story. This was a nice change, although, like I mentioned, it toyed with my patience at times. Couple that with the fact that the book touches on two very sensitive subjects - bullying and suicide, and you understand why it\u2019s a difficult book to read. It also paints a realistic picture of high school, with its cliques, popularity struggles, mean girls and pressure to fit in. It just lays everything bare and while it may be uncomfortable at times, it\u2019s the truth. It tells the sad truth of high school society. It\u2019s a very thought provoking book. Watching Sam go back again and again, trying to fix... something, you start asking yourself whether the things in your life are as simple as they seem at first. Whether the people next to you are as good (or as bad) as they seem. Whether if, if you were caught in a kind of Groundhog Day loop, you\u2019d discover a different reality. And this is what good books are all about - they elicit a change in you, they make you question yourself and the world around you. The writing is a perfect blend of poetic and what I like to call \u201cteenager-accurate\u201d. It might seem tedious to keep writing about the same day again and again, but the author manages to avoid being tedious and repetitive and does a fantastic job at keeping the reader engaged. Also, the ending will feel like a hit to the head. But I wouldn\u2019t have asked for anything else. Favourite quotes: \u201cMaybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through you fingers. So much time you can waste it. But for some of us there's only today. And the truth is, you never really know.\u201d \u201cI guess that's what saying good-bye is always like--like jumping off an edge. The worst part is making the choice to do it. Once you're in the air, there's nothing you can do but let go.\u201d \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 To everyone who got this far, thank you for reading and have a wonderful day! Also, feel free to share your thoughts, comment or tell me anything :) ...more Having heard numerous incredible reviews on this novel, I have finally jumped the this bandwagon and checked out what it was all about. Not disappointed in the least, this is one (rare) instance where my expectations has lived up to the hype. Before I Fall is a moving story of a girl who died, but she gets a second chance to make things right. Samantha Kingston is the type of girl you either hate, or you're jealous of, in high school. She's pretty, popular, dating the hottest guy in school, and s Having heard numerous incredible reviews on this novel, I have finally jumped the this bandwagon and checked out what it was all about. Not disappointed in the least, this is one (rare) instance where my expectations has lived up to the hype. Before I Fall is a moving story of a girl who died, but she gets a second chance to make things right. Samantha Kingston is the type of girl you either hate, or you're jealous of, in high school. She's pretty, popular, dating the hottest guy in school, and seems to be living the perfect life all around--until she isn't that is. After the accident that takes her life, Samantha wakes up the very same morning, again, and again\u2026 and again. Reliving the same day over and over is not a plot that hasn't been done before, but it's the one that harbours the most emotion I've encountered. Denial. Anger. Bargaining. Depression. Acceptance. The 5 stages of grief is something very real that Samantha goes through in this novel. And as much as this book surrounds her death, I believe it's actually about someone else's death. A someone she comes to know through these relivings, who she's slowly beginning to understand, to grieve for, and who, in the end, changes her completely. I loved how every day, a day that is essentially the exact same, something completely different comes about. It's a new experience every time where we see a new perspective of the same story, a different side of people Sam thought she knew. Changing just one little thing can alter so much, it was really an incredible journey; complex and all-consuming. The writing is what makes this novel so potent. It's truly flawless, the way the characters are crafted into real people with real emotions that sucks you in and never lets go. It's amazing how every single relationship in this novel, be it between friends, sisters, mother daughter, or even two people you would never expect, is filled with love. It makes you grieve even more for the people she's leaving behind. Every giggle tore at my heart, every kiss came with never-ending longing. If there was ever a novel to call bittersweet, this would be the one. How often do you experience new love in a book that makes you thoroughly happy, giddy, butterflies and all, while at the same time you want to burst into tears? How a writer can create such powerful dynamics, can put into words such timeless messages while at it, is something worthy of praise. Her words are palpable, the emotions vivid, and as sad as it is, you will come out of this novel with nothing more than a feeling of fulfillment. Samantha, in death, learns to be a better person, learns that it's never too late to make things right; in death, she learns to live! A ticking time-bomb of a book that lingers in your heart for a very long time, Before I Fall is a masterpiece in words. Brimming with meaning and depth, I urge you to pick this one up! Just pick it up, and never look back! -- An advance copy was provided by the publisher for review. For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads ...more Another of my buddy reads where I ignore my reading partner and read ahead..... Honestly. I'm just crap. People, no more buddy reads for Emer because she's USELESS!!!!! I have zero willpower when it comes to slowing down my reading speed. And it's not as if I'm not reading a bazillion other books at the moment too!?!?!?!?!? But.... It's like tell me don't push the red button.... And well..... Anyway the book..... Meh!!! I actually read this before. Back in 2013 and have NO recollection of the story Another of my buddy reads where I ignore my reading partner and read ahead..... Honestly. I'm just crap. People, no more buddy reads for Emer because she's USELESS!!!!! I have zero willpower when it comes to slowing down my reading speed. And it's not as if I'm not reading a bazillion other books at the moment too!?!?!?!?!? But.... It's like tell me don't push the red button.... And well..... Anyway the book..... Meh!!! I actually read this before. Back in 2013 and have NO recollection of the storyline. Which considering this is about a girl who basically has a paranormal case of d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu is really saying something. How could I forget the same dull storyline repeated ad nauseam.... I think the key word there was \"dull\" Dulllllllllllllllllll There was a cast of misunderstood mean girls, dumb jocks, loner types, a good girl gone bad, a cute nerdy boy, an adorable baby sister, parents held at arm's length... Think of any predictable teen high school film (especially anything from the 2000s) and you've got that same cast of characters right here. It was Gabby , my buddy reader, who said it and I have to agree. This book feels very much of a 'time' AND IT'S NOT EVEN THAT OLD??????????? FYI, click on her name for her review. It was predictable. The writing was dull...especially that first long-assed chapter. I swear I wanted to tear out my hair or something while reading it: such a boring, overly drawn out setup!!! The characters were essentially pastiches of every other teen drama you've read or watched. The premise of the storyline is good though. Well it's kinda good. Once you get over the first chapter the story moves along at a much better pace and it's a super easy read but just not one that I would recommend. It's too much like everything else I've ever read in this genre. There is a somewhat nice character arc with the MC but honestly, as it was signposted so clearly it's not enough to rescue this book from its quagmire of banalities. As instantly forgettable the second time around as it was the first! There's a film version of this due for release sometime soon... Can't say this read has encouraged me to want to see it!! Yikes!!!! One star ...more I went into this book rather anxiously--as many glowing reviews as it had received, I was pretty certain that reading about the same day over and over and over again was going to be a total drag. And boy, was I wrong or what? First up I'm going to have to mention Lauren Oliver's STUNNING writing. It pretty much makes me want to give up writing, but at the same time makes me aspire to be a better one (if that makes any sense at all). The metaphors she constructs are absolutely beautiful, and even I went into this book rather anxiously--as many glowing reviews as it had received, I was pretty certain that reading about the same day over and over and over again was going to be a total drag. And boy, was I wrong or what? First up I'm going to have to mention Lauren Oliver's STUNNING writing. It pretty much makes me want to give up writing, but at the same time makes me aspire to be a better one (if that makes any sense at all). The metaphors she constructs are absolutely beautiful, and even though they're used quite often, never once did I roll my eyes out of exasperation and at how the lame of they were because they were Just. So. Gorgeous. Let me show you some examples of just how gorgeous Ms. Oliver's prose is: \"I watch three black crows take off simultaneously from a telephone wire and wish I could take off too, move up, up, up, and watch the ground drop away from me the way it does when you\u2019re on an airplane, folding and compressing into itself like an origami figure, until everything is flat and brightly colored\u2014until the whole world is like a drawing of itself.\" \"...one time on a trip to Colorado, my parents and I hiked up three miles to this little waterfall smack in the middle of the woods. The trees were big and old, all of them pine. The clouds were streaked across the sky like spun sugar.\" \"I\u2019ve imagined it so many times: the way the moon will be dipping past the trees and coming through the windows and lighting up triangles and squares on the walls; the way his fleece blanket will feel against my bare skin when I take my clothes off.\" \"I never eat breakfast at home, but my mom still asks me every day\u2014when she catches me before I duck out, anyway\u2014and in that moment I realize how much I love the little everyday routines of my life: the fact that she always asks, the fact that I always say no because there\u2019s a sesame bagel waiting for me in Lindsay\u2019s car, the fact that we always listen to \u201cNo More Drama\u201d as we pull into the parking lot. The fact that my mom always cooks spaghetti and meatballs on Sunday, and the fact that once a month my dad takes over the kitchen and makes his \u201cspecial stew,\u201d which is just hot-dog pieces and baked beans and lots of extra ketchup and molasses, and I would never admit to liking it, but it\u2019s actually one of my favorite meals. The details that are my life\u2019s special pattern, like how in handwoven rugs what really makes them unique are the tiny flaws in the stitching, little gaps and jumps and stutters that can never be reproduced.\" \"I look out the window and watch Ridgeview go by in a blur of gray. I try to imagine how, in only a few months, the trees will shoot their tiny stems into the sky, the barest spray of flowers and green breathed over everything like a mist. And then, a few months after that, the whole town will be an explosion of green: so many trees and so much grass it will look like a painting still dripping wet. I can imagine it waiting under the surface of the world, like the slides just have to be flipped in the projector and summer will be here.\" Okay, so yeah, that's definitely a lot of quotes, but these are just a few of the bajllions I highlighted. Just reading those quotes makes me want to read the book all over again. Yep yep, read about the same day over and over and over again. That's the beauty of this book, folks. I will, however, admit that the beginning of this book was difficult to get through. When this book starts out the MC Samantha is pretty unsympathetic and generally uninspiring, but what really got to me what her bitcy-beyond-belief best friends. But that's another strength of Before I Fall--how the author manages to make us see beyond the surface, and deeper into why these girls are the way they are. As for Samantha, her growth as a character is so believable and astonishingly well-done I began to empathize with her SO much it's crazy. By living the same day seven times, each time she gets to learn more about the people around her, about her life, and about herself. So yes, the beginning IS a bit hard to swallow, and it takes a while to get into, but once you do, you get to experience the exhilarating, life-changing (at least for me) roller-coaster ride of emotions that is Before I Fall. ...more \"Sometimes, I'm afraid of what I'm leaving behind.\" To be honest, I put Before I Fall on my TBR list because of one reason: February 12. Yes, it is my birth date and I know that was a lame reason in considering a book to read. But hell, I just did. Before I Fall is not just a story of making out, hooking up, flirting, bullying, cutting classes, dumping boy/girl friends, partying, impressions, vices, fighting, school life and the like. It is a story that pictures the importance of one's life, lov \"Sometimes, I'm afraid of what I'm leaving behind.\" To be honest, I put Before I Fall on my TBR list because of one reason: February 12. Yes, it is my birth date and I know that was a lame reason in considering a book to read. But hell, I just did. Before I Fall is not just a story of making out, hooking up, flirting, bullying, cutting classes, dumping boy/girl friends, partying, impressions, vices, fighting, school life and the like. It is a story that pictures the importance of one's life, love, feelings, memories, moments, friendship, thoughts, happiness, melancholy, sorrow, etc. It is a story of living life to the fullest, loving yourself and others around you, considering one's feelings and understanding who really they are. Actually, I'm kind of annoyed with the first few chapters of this precious novel, because of Sam and her friends' attitudes. But as I progressed, I'd shifted from annoyed to relieved and then hooked. Every time a new chapter came, I really want to know what the main character, Sam, will do with her life. Will she continue to do the common things she does? Or will she change her ways? This book this book this book was really a good book it broke my heart into tiny little pieces. I blamed the sudden, mixed emotions enveloping this novel for that. I really admired how Lauren Oliver ruined my life with this (lol) and how she wrote the book very well-- everything has laid on their right spots. Before I Fall is really an inspiring book, to say the least. ...more After reading Delirium (one of my favorite novels of the year) I'd been excited to read more from Lauren Oliver, but perhaps my expectations were too high. Repetition is a major theme as Samantha, the main character, loops through time to \"relive\" (so to say) her last day on Earth, but I thought her musings to be repetitive drudgery and found myself counting the days, literally. Maybe this feeling of going around in circles is because I've read this book before. I'm pretty sure I've seen the mov After reading Delirium (one of my favorite novels of the year) I'd been excited to read more from Lauren Oliver, but perhaps my expectations were too high. Repetition is a major theme as Samantha, the main character, loops through time to \"relive\" (so to say) her last day on Earth, but I thought her musings to be repetitive drudgery and found myself counting the days, literally. Maybe this feeling of going around in circles is because I've read this book before. I'm pretty sure I've seen the movie too. \"You're a big meanie!\" \"Too bad, so sad.\" -- \"You're a big meanie!\" \"Maybe I am.\" -- \"You're a big meanie!\" \"You're right, I'm a horrible person. Would you like a foot massage?\" I should probably keep in mind that this novel is intended for young adults. Maybe they haven't seen Groundhog Day yet. By the end, I felt as though I'd trekked many precarious miles up a steep mountain slope only to reach the apex and smack face-first into an invisible wall. I tend to prefer stories that end with walks into the sunset and leave me with a sense of finality, but sometimes I do enjoy a good jump off a cliff. This just wasn't one of those times. ...more But before you start pointing fingers, let me ask you: is what I did really so bad? So bad I deserved to die? So bad I deserved to die like that? Is what I did really so much worse than what anyone else does? Is it really so much worse than what you do? Think about it. I did think about it. I was forced to think about it for 341 pages. My answer is yes, what you did is worse than what a lot of people do, and what's worse is that at the end of your little week of revelations, I still don't believe But before you start pointing fingers, let me ask you: is what I did really so bad? So bad I deserved to die? So bad I deserved to die like that? Is what I did really so much worse than what anyone else does? Is it really so much worse than what you do? Think about it. I did think about it. I was forced to think about it for 341 pages. My answer is yes, what you did is worse than what a lot of people do, and what's worse is that at the end of your little week of revelations, I still don't believe you're actually sorry that you tormented a classmate into suicide. Lauren Oliver makes an okay attempt. Don't be a bully. Don't be a shallow, empty bitch. But she should have chosen a different medium for her message. The entire novel I was wondering \"Why Sam?\" What can possibly be so different between her and the other three identically empty girls of her group that SHE deserved the chance to \"redeem herself\" while the other four didn't. Why didn't Lauren Oliver feel the need to have the OTHER girls in the group, and let's face it, the rest of the school that bullied Juliet Sykes to ALSO learn the consequences of their actions. What's worst of all, to me, is that Sam was once on the receiving end of Lindsay's cruelty. It was not anywhere near the same extent to which Juliet was tormented, but it was still more of an understanding than others. Everytime she made someone terrified they'd even mentioned the name of her boyfriend, or she reminded someone that she shouldn't even know their name or sent Juliet a Valentines rose to remind her that she didn't have friends, or a boyfriend to send one to her. Her defence to all of this is I didn't do anything; I just followed along (pg 135) as if this somehow excuses the years of cruel behaviour to others. There's also the part on pg 136 where she blames her parents for her being stupid enough to get drunk, get into a car with her friends who are also blind drunk and in no condition to drive, and blame them for the resulting accident. What else could she possibly expect to happen? There's a reason why drunk driving is a crime and high school bodies try to so hard to educate students against such stupidity. Let's then continue the blame game and say it's all Lindsay's fault. Lindsay didn't do any of those things on her own, she had three people - Sam, Elody and Ally - to spread her rumours, help her create them, to encourage her cruelty and enforce the belief that this is just what happens, SOMEONE has to be picked on, so at the end of the day Juliet should just accept it because it is apparantly the law that someone has to. (This is actually something she says early on in the novel.) Her apology to Juliet on pg 277 is not at all sincere and heartfelt, and I believe by the end of the book that she still had a long way to go. I honestly don't understand why Lauren Oliver hasn't made the other three girls go through the same education that Sam does. After all, when Sam is dead the others will still be there, continuing everything they did before without any pause for thought. I also can't understand how she can think it's okay that Sam, knowing she will not survive the night, starts a relationship with Kent, a boy who has been in love with her for years, without consideration for how much it would affect him. This is a strong indication of how selfish Sam still is, and that I don't feel she has learnt what she was meant to, and that therefore the message she's sending is more convoluted that it could be. ...more What was that?? So many feelings \u201cMaybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through you fingers. So much time you can waste it. But for some of us there's only today. And the truth is, you never really know.\u201d I'm feeling devastated !!! How would you feel if you re-lived your last day 7 times? What would you do? What would you change?? What was that?? So many feelings \u201cMaybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through you fingers. So much time you can waste it. But for some of us there's only today. And the truth is, you never really know.\u201d I'm feeling devastated !!! How would you feel if you re-lived your last day 7 times? What would you do? What would you change?? This book puts you on a lot of thought.If you hadn't done this , something else would have happenned. I liked a lot Sam and I think that deep inside she wasnt mean.At the end of the book I loved her! She was desperatelly trying to change what happenned and become a better person. (view spoiler) [She changed character and became better but the book's ending wasn't happy at all. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more The author is young, not far from being a teen herself which probably accounts for her acute recall of the kind of behavior she explores in her book. She does it so well that the pages turn themselves. I am a senior citizen and my high school days came flooding back with memories of the \"mean\" girls in my school, although \"mean\" and/or popular girls then, were vastly different from their counterparts today. Today, the bullying behavior is more apparent, at even younger ages, for boys and girls. The author is young, not far from being a teen herself which probably accounts for her acute recall of the kind of behavior she explores in her book. She does it so well that the pages turn themselves. I am a senior citizen and my high school days came flooding back with memories of the \"mean\" girls in my school, although \"mean\" and/or popular girls then, were vastly different from their counterparts today. Today, the bullying behavior is more apparent, at even younger ages, for boys and girls. Grade school is their training camp. You will not like the characters but you will \"remember\" them. I hope you don't identify with them! The book is about a popular teen who relives the last day of her life for seven days, each day seeing different versions of it, each day changing her behavior bit by bit, sometimes positively and sometimes negatively. You watch Samantha Kingston's evolution, always hoping that she will get a second chance at life. Whether or not she does, is for you to discover, however. It would be a real spoiler if I told you now. Although, it hasn't always been this way, she is now part of a popular circle of friends, rounded out by Elody, Ally and Lindsay. Lindsay is the leader of the pack. These popular girls abuse other girls, and boys, whom they deem unfit for their company, sometimes for no reason other than it is \"fun\". They never think of the pain they cause their victims. They have boyfriends, experiment in sex, alcohol, and drugs and apparently have little supervision at home or at school. They are the \"cool\" ones everyone aspires to be, and even their parents are proud of their status, often overlooking obvious signs of cruel behavior and even accepting it. The book was originally published as a YA (I read the ARC) but according to the author, the jacket will not say teen when it is published in its final version. I think that is a good choice because this book transcends all age levels. A young adult, young mom, mom of a teenager or grandmom will be equally drawn into it because, although it is about a teenager, we have all been or will be teenagers at some point! I really recommend this book. The book held my interest all along, right to the last page, and as I read, I thought the message was about repentance and redemption, responsibility and maturity. I thought it would inspire young teens to behave better and be more healthy emotionally and physically. Samantha's final words make me wonder, however, if my perception was correct. I hope that the message I got, is the message that will be received by teens because the opposite message would have disastrous results. ...more", "Title": "Before I Fall"},
