{"Comments": "This series is one of the most mind-numbingly stupid things I\u2019ve ever read. And believe it or not, I mean that to be a highly complimentary statement.<---F> Weird, I know</---F>. Before starting book number six, track down a copy of the short story titled \u201cOne Word Answer\u201d that appears in the anthology Bite . Randomly, (and I say randomly because it\u2019s been sitting in my house for about two years now and since I really don\u2019t like anthologies, had very little desire to even crack the cover) so I spent the extra This series is one of the most mind-numbingly stupid things I\u2019ve ever read. And believe it or not, I mean that to be a highly complimentary statement. Weird, I know. Before starting book number six, track down a copy of the short story titled \u201cOne Word Answer\u201d that appears in the anthology Bite . Randomly, (and I say randomly because it\u2019s been sitting in my house for about two years now and since I really don\u2019t like anthologies, had very little desire to even crack the cover) so I spent the extra 15 minutes reading the ultra-short \u201cOne Word Answer\u201d before starting <+++>Definitely Dead</+++> and saved myself some confusion\u2014granted,<---M> not major confusion</---M>, but enough that had I not read the short story first, I\u2019d have been scratching my head. Okay, officially they're spoilers, but I'm not going to give away whodunnit, so they're probably spoilers-lite, mm-kay? ***spoilers past this point*** Here are some important facts: --The new bartender at Fangtasia is a lesbian vampire. --Vampire Bill sucks. --Quinn the weretiger has purple eyes and he\u2019s packing heat (and I'm not talking about a gun). --Quinn and Sookie engage in a heated session of dry-humping, but there is no actual sex. --Quinn is cool\u2026 but \u2026he\u2019s not Eric. I\u2019m not partial or anything, right? --Sookie\u2019s definitely dead (and murdered) cousin, Hadley, was a vampire. --Hadley was also a lesbian vampire. --The vampire queen of Louisiana was Hadley\u2019s lesbian lover. --Sookie is on her period for most of this novel. --Obviously this opens up the door for all sorts of strange vampires and supernatural creatures to comment on the ethereal scent of her blood. --It turns out Sookie has fairy blood. --Amelia the witch is cool . I dig her. Okay. And now for the most tasteless joke you\u2019ll hear all week\u2026 Q: What did one lesbian vampire say to the other lesbian vampire? A: See you next month. I know, it\u2019s gross. But admit it, you laughed. And if you didn\u2019t, you probably shouldn\u2019t read this book. ...more Ack...these books are so terrible, yet so entertaining. I can't stop reading them, even though I'm mortified to admit that I like them. I was also terribly confused when I started reading this book, and even had to check to make sure that I didn't miss a book in the series somehow. Somehow Sookie's cousin, who has been turned into a vampire by her lover, the Queen of Louisiana, is murdered, but all this happens before the book starts, leaving me a bit confused. Some random thoughts on my part--I Ack...these books are so terrible, yet so entertaining. I can't stop reading them, even though I'm mortified to admit that I like them. I was also terribly confused when I started reading this book, and even had to check to make sure that I didn't miss a book in the series somehow. Somehow Sookie's cousin, who has been turned into a vampire by her lover, the Queen of Louisiana, is murdered, but all this happens before the book starts, leaving me a bit confused. Some random thoughts on my part--I like the weretiger Quinn, although every time he calls Sookie, \"Babe\", I gag. A lot. Amelia the witch is wonderful. How can you not like a character who accidently turns her lover Bob into a cat during sexual experimentation? Bill the Vampire totally and completely sucks. I knew there was a reason I never warmed up to him or even saw any attraction in him. (Give me Eric's liveliness any day!) One thing I really enjoyed about this book is when Sookie starts meeting some of the vampires who work for the Queen of Louisiana and how they tell her a bit of their history. Saxon twins--love it. And I enjoyed the part where the Queen tells Sookie all about her past and how she became a vampire. The ending was exciting and fast paced, too. A fun read. ...more 2.5 Leave-It-a-Mystery Stars I knew better\u2026. I knew it and I did it anyways! It\u2019s my own fault! At first glimpse Harris\u2019 love interests always seem like a good idea, and the hinting descriptions of Quinn in book #5 had me panting, begging for more. I mean he sounds like a taller Vin Diesel (ugh, curse you google I did not want to know he was only 5\u20199\u201d. And don\u2019t get me wrong there is nothing WRONG with being 5\u20199\u201d \u2013 that\u2019s the exact height that CQ lies to himself that he is \u2013 I just always pictured 2.5 Leave-It-a-Mystery Stars I knew better\u2026. I knew it and I did it anyways! It\u2019s my own fault! At first glimpse Harris\u2019 love interests always seem like a good idea, and the hinting descriptions of Quinn in book #5 had me panting, begging for more. I mean he sounds like a taller Vin Diesel (ugh, curse you google I did not want to know he was only 5\u20199\u201d. And don\u2019t get me wrong there is nothing WRONG with being 5\u20199\u201d \u2013 that\u2019s the exact height that CQ lies to himself that he is \u2013 I just always pictured him as like 6\u20192\u201d). And I looooooove me some Vin Diesel, especially in \u2018Pitch Black\u2019. Riddick will always have a special place in my heart. Any-fucking-ways. So Quinn, amirite??, this guy turns into a fucking TIGER, and not just any old tiger a Bengal tiger !! That\u2019s awesome, IN CONCEPT. Unfortunately once any hot guy in Harris\u2019 books becomes <---C>Sookie Stackhouse</---C>\u2019s love interest of the moment he not only loses points for intelligence in my eyes, he also gets more page time. And more page time with Harris usually means gets boring fast . In this world, for me, the more mystery I have about a male the more interesting he is. Once I start hearing about how tedious and boring his job is or how his eyes are violet-brown like muthafucking pansies or the clothes he stylishly sports for \u2018date-night\u2019, he quickly loses appeal. So, needless to say, I lost interest in my reason for picking this book up: MOAR QUINN!!! The murder mystery was slightly more interesting in this one. And while I find Harris horrible at telegraphing everything ahead of time I was a lot more interested in what was going on here. I don\u2019t want to get to spoilery, but I will say that there are cool elements in <+++>Definitely Dead</+++> with regards to how the other half lives. The politics of the vampires, being but one of them that I found intriguing. Witches, shifters, weres, vengeance...... Murder, mayhem, chaos: all that good stuff. Unfortunately it is still written by Harris, and even really good writing from her is just decent writing (in my opinion.) ...more I am so pleased to see Harris getting back on track! I particularly liked Eric socially assassinating Bill at the hospital! Say goodbye to your dating life, Bill... Yes, I am firmly in the Eric camp. The sixth book in the series, and yet another round of Sookie\u2019s astoundingly dull thoughts on the outfits, hair-colour, cars and interior d\u00e9cor of herself and everyone she meets. Plot-wise there\u2019s some more mysterious attacks on Sookie to explain, another male whose sexual assault Sookie mistakes for courtship, the re-appearance of Bill\u2019s chaetophilia and basically very little else. A character to whom we have never been introduces is killed, Sookie goes to investigate the death of another chara The sixth book in the series, and yet another round of Sookie\u2019s astoundingly dull thoughts on the outfits, hair-colour, cars and interior d\u00e9cor of herself and everyone she meets. Plot-wise there\u2019s some more mysterious attacks on Sookie to explain, another male whose sexual assault Sookie mistakes for courtship, the re-appearance of Bill\u2019s chaetophilia and basically very little else. A character to whom we have never been introduces is killed, Sookie goes to investigate the death of another character who has never appeared in the series, Sookie is nearly raped again, another body turns up in a cupboard. Sookie goes to another hospital. Bubba turns up again for no particular reason, and once again we have to hear everything about how and why he is and what he likes to eat. This remains uninteresting and unamusing. Finally two less-than-thrilling mysteries are cleared up: Sookie\u2019s attacker is revealed to be the character who has a grudge against her, and the person who sliced a random new character in half with a sword turns out to be a new character who walks around wearing a large sword at all times. For some reason I was not entirely gripped with suspense whilst waiting for these outcomes. Most Idiotically Inane Comment \u201cI yanked my hair into a ponytail and then doubled the elastic band around it,making it into a kind of topknot. I had a little fan of the ends waving above my head. Though I tried not to admit it to myself, I thought this slapdash hairstyle was fun-looking and kind of cute.\u201d Most Hypocritical Statement Sookie on Tara: \u201cNow she was safe, if she was smart enough to stay away from the supernatural world.\u201d Most Childishly Bitchy Remark Portia made the childish gesture, and tucked the thick catalog under her arm. She was wearing one of her \"lawyer suits,\" a brownish tweedy-looking straight skirt and jacket with a silk blouse underneath. She had on beige hose and low-heeled pumps, and she carried a matching purse. Bo-ring. Apart from the bitchiness, I\u2019m not sure why Sookie makes this sound like she\u2019s describing a child playing dress-up. In fairness, Portia is in fact a lawyer, and so is surely entitled to own as many lawyer suits as she wants without being insulted. Most Selfish Action Jason Stackhouse leaving his girlfriend at home suffering from the after-effects of a miscarriage, whilst he visits his sister\u2019s for a hamburger. Biggest Inconsistency To get around her own stupid rules about the were/shifter ability only passing down from two were/shifter parents to their oldest child, Harris decides to make both old character Debbie Pelt and her newly-introduced sister Sandra adoptees. As Sookie explains: \u201cOkay. Debbie Pelt, werefox, had been adopted. I'd learned that the Weres were prone to fertility problems, and I assumed that the Pelts had given up on having their own little Were, and had adopted a baby that was at least some kind of shape-shifter, if not their own kind. Even a full-blooded fox must have seemed preferable to a plain human. Then the Pelts had adopted another daughter, a Were.\u201d I have two problems with this. Firstly, if weres and shifters have such fertility problems then where are all these adoption-eligible babies coming from. And second, at what point did Debbie turn from a were-lynx to a were-fox? I can only assume that even Harris herself is unable to bear to re-read her books, and thus was unable to proof-read for consistency. Most Poorly Thought Through Scene / Most Childish Synonym for a Period \u201cMy little friend had come to visit, and I felt the sensation even as I realized what was contributing to my general irritation. I glanced over at Bill and caught him staring at me, his nostrils flaring. He could smell the blood. A wave of acute embarrassment rolled over me, turning my face red. For a second, I glimpsed naked hunger on his face, and then he wiped his features clean of all expression. If he wasn't weeping with unrequited love on my doorstep, at least he was suffering a little. A tiny pleased smile was on my lips when I glimpsed myself in the mirror behind the bar.\u201d So being in the same room as a woman having a period causes a vampire to experience \u201cnaked hunger\u201d and suffer somewhat. This applies even if the room in question is a crowded bar and the vampire and woman in question are not even close. In which case Bill has presumably had a very difficult 130-odd years as a vampire, as menstruating is something that many people do quite regularly for several days at a time without considering whether there might be a vampire in the vicinity. Personally I would have recommended him to develop a little self-control during his many years in existence, at least to a sufficient degree to avoid him making silly faces whenever a menstruating woman is nearby. Stupidest New Character Name Rafe Prudhomme Gladiola the Half-Demon Jade Flower \u2013 Clumsily faux-asian. Worst Misunderstanding of the Concept of Irony \u201cmy grandmother believed that plants, like birds and dogs, belonged outside; ironically enough, I'd gotten some houseplants when she died, and I was trying hard to keep them alive\u201d That\u2019s not ironic Sookie. Disrespectful of your grandmothers wishes perhaps, but not ironic. Most Snobbish/Small-minded Reaction \u201cThe sheets startled me so much that I stood there with my lips curled. They were disgusting: black satin, for God's sake! And not even real satin, but some synthetic. Give me percale or 100% cotton, any day.\u201d Although I suppose it\u2019s entirely in character for someone who is apparently shocked and amazed by the kind of basic goth accoutrements that the average 12-year-old might wear without a second thought. Black lipstick and striped tights really aren\u2019t all that bizarre Sookie. Most Clich\u00e9d Plot Development Claudine the Fairy turns out to not only be Sookie\u2019s Fairy Godmother, but also engaged in committing good deeds in order to become an angel. A nonsensical conflation of pre-Christian folk beliefs, traditional fairy tales and non-canonical biblical mumbo-jumbo often spouted in TV specials featuring desperate, mentally-ill people. Plus whilst informing Sookie of these facts Claudine compounds the horror by referring to Sookie as \u201cThe Sook\u201d . Most Noticeable Casual Racism \u201cThe guard himself was a sturdy man with brown skin and a nose as curved as a rainbow. He'd been born somewhere in the Middle East, once-upon a time\u201d Most Unintentionally Revealing Remark \"Sorry, anyone who knows me knows I don't do women. I don't know who you expect Jade Flower's reporting to \u2026\" \"But if they've done any homework, that's just a fact about me.\" Absolutely everyone that Sookie knows, without exception, knows that there is no way that she would ever have sex with a woman. How? Presumably the subject hasn\u2019t arisen independently with every one of her acquaintances. The only way this could make sense is if Sookie is known to have a prejudice against lesbians. Which, given that she has a prejudice against all women other than her, would certainly make sense. Most Unnecessary and Vain Self-Description/Most Extended Criticism of a Dead Relative\u2019s Taste in Clothes \u201cI checked out Hadley's clothes that I'd wriggled into. The black spandex workout pants came to midthigh. Hadley probably had never worn them, because they would have been too big, to her taste. On me, they were very snug, but not the snug Hadley liked, where you could count the \u2026 oh, never mind. The hot pink tank top left my pale pink bra straps showing, to say nothing of a couple of inches of my middle, but thanks to Peck's Tan-a-Lot (located inside Peck's Bunch-o-Flicks, a video rental place in Bon Temps), that middle was nice and brown. Hadley would have put a piece of jewelry in her belly button.\u201d A particularly fine example of Sookie\u2019s tendency to combine an obsession with her own clothes and person with a compulsion to belittle others in comparison with herself. In this case the person suffering her scorn is her troubled and recently deceased cousin, making her catty barbs all the more cruel and unnecessary. To make it worse, this is then followed by the longest and most boring description of someone putting their hair into a pony-tail ever committed to paper, breaking Harris\u2019 previous record with ease. Amid the details of the pony-tail\u2019s exact length and Sookie\u2019s ability to centre it exactly, we also witness two men being reduced to gasping lust by the sight of Sookie\u2019s lycra-covered arse. Sookie initially purports to be ignorant of the cause of their reaction, before realising: \u201cAfter another glance in the mirror, it occurred to me that maybe anything I did in that outfit was fairly interesting, if you were a fully functional guy.\u201d Showing either massive vanity of an incredibly low opinion of all males. Although to be fair most males in Sookie\u2019s world are guilty or sexual assault and/or rape, so maybe she has a point. Least Helpful Response to a Sexual Assault Quinn\u2019s descent into a massive sulk because he was unable to stop Sookie being kidnapped and once more molested, and instead had to be rescued by her even though it\u2019s embarrassing being rescued by a woman. In case you think this is just a personal interpretation of the text : \u201cBut his mind, ah, that was full of snarled confusion and anger that he couldn't find a place to stuff. \"Did I help you? Did I free you? Did I protect you from the fucking Weres? No, I let that son of a bitch stick his finger up you, and I watched, I couldn't do anything.\u201d Oh. Male pride. \" You got my hands free,\" I pointed out. \"And you can help me now.\" \"How?\" he turned to me, and he was deeply upset. I realized that he was a guy who took his protecting very seriously... I knew that Quinn \u2026 was in a funk because he hadn't killed all our attackers and saved me from being sullied by their touch.\u201d Nice medieval attitude Quinn. Don\u2019t thank Sookie or show any sensitivity regarding what just happened. Just go into a strop like a big fat baby because someone else touched your woman and disrespected you. Furthermore, Quinn is the kind of man who walks into a room naked and says \u201cDo you like what you see?\u201d So, all-in-all a grade-A arsehole. Which is of course Sookie\u2019s type. The novel finally comes to an end with yet another badly written and dull vampire battle, after which Sookie returns home with the addition of two randomly added sidekicks, a witch and the man she has accidentally turned into a cat. I\u2019m not sure whether Harris has purloined this plot device from A Bad Spell for the The Worst Witch , Harry Potter, Buffy the Vampire Slayer or even Sabrina the Teenage Witch, but I am certain that I didn\u2019t want to see it again. The loose ends are wrapped up and the next book clumsily set-up in three pages and then the book mercifully closes with the standard threat of yet another volume of this trash. ...more Let me just say, right off the bat, that I had a love/hate relationship with this installment of Sookie's life. This one was another good read, story-wise, but it frustrated the hell out of me. We're steadily learning more and more about Sookie, and her life and love(s), and not all of those things are good. This book completely engrossed me, even while I was getting more and more upset with it. At times I felt myself winding up the old throwin' arm to chuck the damn thing at the wall, but that Let me just say, right off the bat, that I had a love/hate relationship with this installment of Sookie's life. This one was another good read, story-wise, but it frustrated the hell out of me. We're steadily learning more and more about Sookie, and her life and love(s), and not all of those things are good. This book completely engrossed me, even while I was getting more and more upset with it. At times I felt myself winding up the old throwin' arm to chuck the damn thing at the wall, but that wouldn't have made the outcome any different, and it probably would dented the wall just to spite me, even though I'm reading a paperback. **Possible spoilers** After a heartbreaking revelation about Bill and the origin of their relationship, Sookie now feels completely betrayed and duped. She is also being ridiculously unreasonable and irrational, in my opinion. To be honest, Sookie has an annoying habit of running away from anything that upsets her. She would be much better off if she would stop making assumptions about people and their motives and just let them actually TALK to her. It is insanely frustrating to me that this story is told in first person, so we only get Sookie's lopsided and biased view of everyone around her. This is true of all books told in 1st person, of course, but this book really seems to have taken that to another level, since Sookie is being so stubbornly stupid and spiteful, even. I really think that her ability to hear other people's thoughts has made her more than a bit jaded, and so she is more than ready to see the bad in people, which leads her to just shut them down, utterly and completely. Perhaps there are people out there who will disagree with my saying these things about Sookie, and I can understand that. She is generally good, and tries to do the right thing, and I do like her, most of the time. She's gutsy and fun, smart but naive. But, when it comes to her heart, she's all-or-nothing. Bill is no saint, but I truly believe that he loves Sookie and would do anything for her. I feel for him the most, even though Sookie was hurt so badly. Bill really had no choice in any of the things that Sookie is angry with him about, and he is possibly losing her because of his role in Vampire society. Eric cares for Sookie, but in a self-serving, hey-look-at-the-cute-puppy-can-I-keep-it? kind of way. I'm not a big fan of a Sookie/Eric relationship. That's just personal preference though. I see nothing wrong with either Alcide or Quinn (yet...) so I am still rather baffled by Sookie's anger at Alcide, but I'm glad that she is being more cautious with Quinn. Maybe the next book will resolve some of these issues for me. I sure hope so. ...more Rating: 4.1* of five The Publisher Says : As a person with so few living relatives, Louisiana cocktail waitress Sookie Stackhouse really hated to lose one. But she never guessed that it would be her cousin Hadley\u2014a consort of the Vampire Queen of New Orleans. After all, technically speaking, Hadley was already dead. And now, as unexpected heir to Hadley\u2019s estate, Sookie discovers the inheritance definitely comes with a risk. Someone doesn\u2019t want Sookie looking too deeply into Hadley\u2019s past\u2014or for Rating: 4.1* of five The Publisher Says : As a person with so few living relatives, Louisiana cocktail waitress Sookie Stackhouse really hated to lose one. But she never guessed that it would be her cousin Hadley\u2014a consort of the Vampire Queen of New Orleans. After all, technically speaking, Hadley was already dead. And now, as unexpected heir to Hadley\u2019s estate, Sookie discovers the inheritance definitely comes with a risk. Someone doesn\u2019t want Sookie looking too deeply into Hadley\u2019s past\u2014or for that matter, Hadley\u2019s possessions. And they\u2019re prepared to do anything in their power to stop her. But who? The range of suspects runs from the Rogue Weres who reject Sookie as a friend of the Pack to the Vampire Queen herself, who could be working through a particularly vulnerable subject\u2014Sookie\u2019s first love, Bill. Whoever it is, they\u2019re definitely dangerous\u2014and Sookie\u2019s life is definitely on the line\u2026 My Review : A bump in my rating for this entry in the series because I love Quinn, the weretiger we've just met in the last book, as Sookie's new suitor. Also love the ectoplasmic reconstruction of Hadley's murder. So cool. Hadley, Sookie's cousin, dies the True Death and Sookie now needs to (what a surprise) clean up the loose ends of her worldly estate. You just know bad stuff will happen here...bad bad...and of course, it does. Sookie's never gonna catch a break. Well, there wouldn't be a series if she did, now would there? And adding to the revels is the Big Reveal of Sookie's fascination for the supernatural community, which it damn near kills me not to spoiler. But I won't. Not that there are any Americans left who can read who haven't read these books already. Okay, that's an exaggeration, but these are very much as popular as Twilight (thank the gods!) and its hell-spawn. It's just an older crowd. And, I suspect though I cannot prove this, a gayer crowd. There's a degree of identification with Sookie and her relationship problems that most gay guys and lesbians can expect to experience, because there are vocal and crazy-passionate groups hatin' on Sookie and her friends and lovers simply for existing and being themselves. All in the name of what's Good and Right, of course. Hmm. Not like I've ever heard that line of shit aimed at me before. So here we have a series that's made phenomenal success out of showing up hatred and intolerance, demonstrating the futility of trying to reason with the insanely hate-filled, and triumphing by refusing to accept anyone else's definition of your essential self. No wonder I, and so many others, keep reading them. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more I did not enjoy this book quite as much as the others in the series. I don't like the path that Sookie and Bill's relationship has taken, I don't think she should be so angry. I like Quinn some but even he does not seem to be the guy for Sookie and I hate the habit he has of calling her 'Babe'. The storyline was okay although it just barely touched upon some unanswered questions from previous books. It did leave us with some interesting new people for future books. I still look forward to more i I did not enjoy this book quite as much as the others in the series. I don't like the path that Sookie and Bill's relationship has taken, I don't think she should be so angry. I like Quinn some but even he does not seem to be the guy for Sookie and I hate the habit he has of calling her 'Babe'. The storyline was okay although it just barely touched upon some unanswered questions from previous books. It did leave us with some interesting new people for future books. I still look forward to more in this series. ...more Definitely Dead is the sixth book in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, <---A>Charlaine Harris</---A>. As Sookie waits for word she can claim the legacy from her now definitely dead cousin Hadley, she encounters a surfeit of happy couples, including some of her exes, and there are several weddings being planned. Her own interest is piqued by a rather handsome were-tiger, Quinn, who confirms the attraction is mutual. But together, they seem to draw the wrong sort of attention. When Sooki Definitely Dead is the sixth book in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. As Sookie waits for word she can claim the legacy from her now definitely dead cousin Hadley, she encounters a surfeit of happy couples, including some of her exes, and there are several weddings being planned. Her own interest is piqued by a rather handsome were-tiger, Quinn, who confirms the attraction is mutual. But together, they seem to draw the wrong sort of attention. When Sookie heads to the Big Easy to sort through her cousin\u2019s things, she finds something quite unexpected in Hadley\u2019s closet. In this instalment, Sookie\u2019s telepathy is put to use to save a life; Sookie has occasion to call a paranormal doctor, aid the Queen of Louisiana, escape from pursuit through a swamp, attend a Royal Vampire Ball, and confess to murder. She is told she has special blood, learns quite a bit about weres, shifters, fairies, vampires, witches and demons, watches the paranormal equivalent of a security video playback and has her heart broken. Bill makes a confession that has Sookie unable to envisage ever not hating him. Plenty of humour, action and an exciting climax will have fans looking forward to the next instalment, All Together Dead. 4.5\u2605s ...more Another installment in the Sookie Stackhouse soap opera and I am still enjoying these books far more than I would ever have believed that I would! The whole set-up is ridiculous, but it is so much fun. No one ever gives Sookie credit for her ideas, but she comes up with more solutions than all of the supposedly ancient vampires put together. And more often than not, it is just like when women pitch ideas in a meeting\u2014the men ignore the ideas and then pitch the same ideas themselves later and cong Another installment in the Sookie Stackhouse soap opera and I am still enjoying these books far more than I would ever have believed that I would! The whole set-up is ridiculous, but it is so much fun. No one ever gives Sookie credit for her ideas, but she comes up with more solutions than all of the supposedly ancient vampires put together. And more often than not, it is just like when women pitch ideas in a meeting\u2014the men ignore the ideas and then pitch the same ideas themselves later and congratulate themselves on finding the solutions. Sookie is getting better at having her ideas acknowledged though. Another positive development\u2014she seems to be developing some female friends, some back-up for when all the men in her life become difficult. Because let\u2019s face it, lovers come and go, but friends are there through thick and thin. I just hit the jackpot in my local used book store\u2014apparently someone was cleaning off their bookshelf and turned in a whole whack of Sookie books, so I have the next several novels queued up and ready to go. Now the temptation will be to read them all at once, which I suspect would decrease my enjoyment of them substantially. Self-control will become important and I\u2019m not sure that I\u2019ve got it this summer. ...more Okay, so I am reading a book a day. I really need to get a life. So, I loved Bill, I am now pretty much over Bill--so 5 minutes ago. Eric can be the biggest ass and still make me swoon. Underneath all the big-scary-vampire-muscles, he is a real charmer and I am convinced he is a good guy. He has to be tough-- he is the sheriff. Quinn--holy crap, how does she get so lucky? So many men and so little time. In this book, we finally find out the secret behind Sookie's allure. I was wondering how plain Okay, so I am reading a book a day. I really need to get a life. So, I loved Bill, I am now pretty much over Bill--so 5 minutes ago. Eric can be the biggest ass and still make me swoon. Underneath all the big-scary-vampire-muscles, he is a real charmer and I am convinced he is a good guy. He has to be tough-- he is the sheriff. Quinn--holy crap, how does she get so lucky? So many men and so little time. In this book, we finally find out the secret behind Sookie's allure. I was wondering how plain Jane pull in so much sausage--now we know. _\u2733\u2733 Reviewed on I \u2665 Bookie Nookie Reviews ___________________________________________________ If you like this type of book, you might enjoy one of these groups. Check us out! Menage Readers Erotic Enchants Bookie Nookie's Erotic Lending Group ...more I gave this one 3 stars because I'm really convinced it's the weakest link in the series. That said, Southern Vampire Mysteries really is my favorite series of all times. Quinn is far from my favorite character in the series, he actually goes right in the basket with Tanya and Arlene. At first I couldn't figure out why, I tought I was just blinded by Eric and my never ending adoration for him, but no, Quinn is obnoxious all by himself. Apart from that, the book just ties some loose ends from the I gave this one 3 stars because I'm really convinced it's the weakest link in the series. That said, Southern Vampire Mysteries really is my favorite series of all times. Quinn is far from my favorite character in the series, he actually goes right in the basket with Tanya and Arlene. At first I couldn't figure out why, I tought I was just blinded by Eric and my never ending adoration for him, but no, Quinn is obnoxious all by himself. Apart from that, the book just ties some loose ends from the previous ones. Nothing new happens, and Eric is not around for the most part. I enjoyed learning a little more about Sophie Anne and Andre and I really enjoyed kicking Bill in the ass (thank you, Eric). ...more This is a book I've read a couple times in the past and realized I never actually wrote a review for it. If I'm remembering correctly, this is the Quinn book. He's a pretty hot weretiger. Of course, he's not as hot as Eric Northman, but I did like him more than book Alcide. I remember enjoying this one, but not enough Eric. I do like the Queen. She is an interesting character in this world. I don't remember too many specifics from this honestly, so this is just a generic review. I am not sure if This is a book I've read a couple times in the past and realized I never actually wrote a review for it. If I'm remembering correctly, this is the Quinn book. He's a pretty hot weretiger. Of course, he's not as hot as Eric Northman, but I did like him more than book Alcide. I remember enjoying this one, but not enough Eric. I do like the Queen. She is an interesting character in this world. I don't remember too many specifics from this honestly, so this is just a generic review. I am not sure if I will re-read these later ones again because it just reminds me of how bad the series ended. After the next couple, they aren't even worth reading anymore, in my view. ...more I knew it would only be a matter of time before Sookie began to annoy me a little, and this book marked the beginning of it. To be fair, though, I'm not sure it if was her so much as her interaction with Quinn that didn't sit that well with me. After the previous book, it was kind of a no-brainer that Quinn would become the next addition to Sookie's growing parade of suitors. I didn't really care for him or his relationship with Sookie. The whole \"I shall compliment you at any given moment, and I knew it would only be a matter of time before Sookie began to annoy me a little, and this book marked the beginning of it. To be fair, though, I'm not sure it if was her so much as her interaction with Quinn that didn't sit that well with me. After the previous book, it was kind of a no-brainer that Quinn would become the next addition to Sookie's growing parade of suitors. I didn't really care for him or his relationship with Sookie. The whole \"I shall compliment you at any given moment, and you'll glow with happiness\" routine is good and fine, but it's just not interesting to me. So, I'm not particularly looking forward to seeing more of him in the next couple of books. (At this point, I've also developed a definite preference for what man I want Sookie to end up with, and I'm leaning towards Sam or Eric. Naturally, I realize this may have biased me against Quinn, but oh well, so things go.) On the plus side, I like how things came together at the end of the novel, but I spent so many pages keeping up with meandering storylines that it was kind of a killjoy. Well into the 100s, we were still getting briefed by Sookie on her past with such and such character. It's probably a result of the series growing in scope and characters still sticking around, but it was a tad tiresome and resulted in the book not holding my attention as well as the previous ones did. Bill's revelation was raw and painful, and I think Harris did a good job with Sookie's reaction. There was a good balance of agony and humor to make the revelation work well in the context of the story. Anyways, this was a decent book, but a far cry from the best. ...more How irritating is it when you read the next book in a series, and then you realize that the story was dependent upon some short story that came in-between and you didn't read it?? No, I don't want to read the crappy short story that came before this! You're not the boss of me! Plus, Sookie is now getting involved with Quinn, whom she met once and then is thinking about sleeping with him. It's weird. She was a nice girl, virgin, until the age of 26, and now she's sleeping around with every superna How irritating is it when you read the next book in a series, and then you realize that the story was dependent upon some short story that came in-between and you didn't read it?? No, I don't want to read the crappy short story that came before this! You're not the boss of me! Plus, Sookie is now getting involved with Quinn, whom she met once and then is thinking about sleeping with him. It's weird. She was a nice girl, virgin, until the age of 26, and now she's sleeping around with every supernatural being in the state of Louisiana (which is a lot with New Orleans and all). She's become the village bike cuz everyone has taken a ride. (or, should it be the village broom because everyone magical has taken a ride?) And, she's a total idiot because Eric is still interested. Need I remind you? She picks a bald dude who turns into a tiger (and she said looked like a genie) over him? She's dumber than I thought! So, we have Sookie traveling to New Orleans to pack up her cousin, Hadley's, household since Hadley died and left her everything. This puts her in the path of the Queen of Louisiana, who was Hadley's girlfriend. Sookie gets involved with the court politics of the queen. And, someone is trying to kidnap/kill her again . This girl is marked. She finds out a few tasty nuggets of information along the way. The first being that Bill is a big fat lying user. The second is that she has fairy blood in her. \"that blood would explain why you have supernatural suitors and not human admirers.\" Well, thank you for giving us an explanation as to why every single supernatural being is following Sookie around like a lost puppy. She is like magic-bait or something. And, the vampires are especially attracted to fairies. That information takes Sookie down a notch or two. So, Sookie: But, bless your heart! The book wasn't all that bad, but I just don't like New Orleans (I live somewhat close), and I don't like books that pull the you-had-to-read-the-half-book-to-get-this crap. ...more [Quoted from this book:] \u201cAsk him why he came back to Bon Temps, Sookie,\u201d Eric said very quietly. \u201cWell, old Mr. Compton died, and he wanted to reclaim his \u2026\u201d I couldn\u2019t describe the expression on Bill\u2019s face. My heart began to beat faster. Dread gathered in a knot in my stomach. \u201cBill?\u201d Eric turned to face away from me, but not before I saw a shade of pity cross his face. Nothing could have scared me more. I might not be able to read a vampire\u2019s mind, but in this case his body language said it a [Quoted from this book:] \u201cAsk him why he came back to Bon Temps, Sookie,\u201d Eric said very quietly. \u201cWell, old Mr. Compton died, and he wanted to reclaim his \u2026\u201d I couldn\u2019t describe the expression on Bill\u2019s face. My heart began to beat faster. Dread gathered in a knot in my stomach. \u201cBill?\u201d Eric turned to face away from me, but not before I saw a shade of pity cross his face. Nothing could have scared me more. I might not be able to read a vampire\u2019s mind, but in this case his body language said it all. Eric was turning away because he didn\u2019t want to watch the knife sliding in. \u201cSookie, you would find out when you saw the queen \u2026Maybe I could have kept it from you, because you won\u2019t understand \u2026 but Eric has taken care of that.\u201d Bill gave Eric\u2019s back a look that could have drilled a hole through Eric\u2019s heart. \u201cWhen your cousin Hadley was becoming the queen\u2019s favorite \u2026\u201d And suddenly I saw it all, knew what he was going to say, and I rose up on the hospital bed with a gasp, one hand to my chest because I felt my heart shattering. But Bill\u2019s voice went on, even though I shook my head violently. \u201cApparently, Hadley talked about you and your gift a lot, to impress the queen and keep her interest. And the queen knew I was originally from Bon Temps. On some nights, I\u2019ve wondered if she sent someone to kill the last Compton and hurry things along. But maybe he truly died of old age.\u201d Bill was looking down at the floor, didn\u2019t see my left hand extended to him in a \u201cstop\u201d motion. \u201cShe ordered me to return to my human home, to put myself in your way, to seduce you if I had to \u2026\u201d I couldn\u2019t breathe. No matter how my right hand pressed to my heart, I couldn\u2019t stop the decimation of my heart, the slide of the knife deeper into my flesh. ...more Never come across a book series that makes me hate reading so much until this one. I have an OCD-ish habit of having to read every book I buy, and for some reason I bought three more of these damn things. Yikes. My biggest issue is how come an idiot girl with vampires, werewolves/tigers/panthers/(any other random animal) in her life can be so unbelievably boring. The book is full of people telling Sookie she's wonderful, special, they love her, no less than three men/vamps/weres/whatever go all Never come across a book series that makes me hate reading so much until this one. I have an OCD-ish habit of having to read every book I buy, and for some reason I bought three more of these damn things. Yikes. My biggest issue is how come an idiot girl with vampires, werewolves/tigers/panthers/(any other random animal) in her life can be so unbelievably boring. The book is full of people telling Sookie she's wonderful, special, they love her, no less than three men/vamps/weres/whatever go all macho and protect her, and she's thrilled with that. The author feels the need to tell the reader every single piece of information about a person's clothing (which if she's female generally ends with the conclusion that Sookie hates her), or life even if they're only in the book for one page or two. Like Portia. Why does she keep showing up? Her scenes are so small and pointless, and it takes Sookie paragraphs to describe her and then she'll have only one or two sentences to say before never being seen again. Oh, and Quinn. Vomit. Gary-Stu alert. And he's a weretiger. Come.The.F**k.On. On top of that the plot is all over the place and doesn't seem to take into account a normal human/superhuman reaction. Jason's girlfriend is suffering a miscarriage, so he comes to Sookie and tells her. Her response is to make a call, and then make him lunch. Neither of them visit the poor girl in (presumably) pain. The girlfriend, Crystal, who I feel the need to again remind someone that she miscarried Sookie's niece/nephew, is never seen or heard from during this trauma nor once throughout the rest of the book. All these books lead me to the same conclusion: I hate Sookie Stackhouse. Anyone want my 9 books? ...more I don't know who's 'definitely dead', but it's not Bill. Alas. Oh, wait, is that a spoiler? Yea, Bill lives. Or unlives. Whatever. In this book, Sookie ditches all the other guys after her to take up with the weretiger she met in the last book. She even manages to have sex this time. Well, mostly. No actual disrobing took place. At least, not in that scene. You may also remember this book as -- the one in which Sookie gets her period which will probably play a small role in the climax of the book I don't know who's 'definitely dead', but it's not Bill. Alas. Oh, wait, is that a spoiler? Yea, Bill lives. Or unlives. Whatever. In this book, Sookie ditches all the other guys after her to take up with the weretiger she met in the last book. She even manages to have sex this time. Well, mostly. No actual disrobing took place. At least, not in that scene. You may also remember this book as -- the one in which Sookie gets her period which will probably play a small role in the climax of the book. And I think there's a plot in there somewhere. Oh yea, Sookie's cousin died awhile ago, and you can read all about that in a short story which doesn't fit well into the continuity because her house is intact and yea, blah. And her cousin was shacking up with the Queen of Louisiana. And so Sookie has to go pack up her apartment and the Queen wants her for some stuff. And a bunch of people are horribly killed, because, hey, it's a Sookie Stackhouse book. If it's not sex, it's violence. And just because a vampire has lived for hundreds and hundreds of years is no reason they should keep on living with Sookie around! Oh yea, and Bill is more horrible than we thought. And Sookie's super special telepathic powers have a _reason_ behind them. And it also means she smells nice. And probably tastes nice. Because there's only one reason to keep a human girl around in a vampire book, and that's if she smells and/or tastes extra good. And, oh yea, Bill and Eric both sparkle. (Okay, I made that last part up.) ...more Not much to add to the other reviews. The story goes on very well. No new paranormal creatures, but we do get a murder mystery inside a couple of others that makes for a complicated mess. I wasn't terribly happy with Harris letting Sookie find out information & purposely leaving us in the dark for so long. It seemed like a cheap way to draw out the suspense. The book is told in the first person, after all. I think it would have been a stronger story if we'd known what she did. Parker again di Not much to add to the other reviews. The story goes on very well. No new paranormal creatures, but we do get a murder mystery inside a couple of others that makes for a complicated mess. I wasn't terribly happy with Harris letting Sookie find out information & purposely leaving us in the dark for so long. It seemed like a cheap way to draw out the suspense. The book is told in the first person, after all. I think it would have been a stronger story if we'd known what she did. Parker again did a wonderful job of reading this. On to the next, All Together Dead . ...more *3.5* There is alot going on in this book! Jason (Sookie's bother) is experiencing a trying time, Sookie has to help in a missing persons' case with the local police, and, well, lots more... Sookies' cousin Hadley, has passed away and Sookie is named her beneficiary. Sookie is summoned to sort through and collect what she wants of Hadley's personal and financial assets. She goes to New Orleans and meets some very interesting new character's while she's in town to sort through Hadley's things. While Sookie There is alot going on in this book! Jason (Sookie's bother) is experiencing a trying time, Sookie has to help in a missing persons' case with the local police, and, well, lots more... Sookies' cousin Hadley, has passed away and Sookie is named her beneficiary. Sookie is summoned to sort through and collect what she wants of Hadley's personal and financial assets. She goes to New Orleans and meets some very interesting new character's while she's in town to sort through Hadley's things. While Sookie is in New Orleans...many (and I mean many) issue's arise that require her assistance and attention. Sookie makes many discovery's -some that are scary and others that are just heartbreaking- that all seem to intertwine some how. She finds more than tacky clothes in her cousin's house and must deal with a few issue's from her past. Also, she finds out some things in regurad to herself that she didn't even know about! This book was exciting, crafty, sexy, heartbreakingly sad, imaginative, and (I think) there are some of the best fighting scenes in this book that Charliane Harris has ever wrote in the Southern Vampire series! I loved it! ...Heads will fly... Bowling for vampires! I think I experienced the most fluctuating rage of emotions while reading this book. while reading there were times when I was laughing my @ss off, and then I was furious. There were alot of tender moments but there were even more upsetting ones. I was happy to see some things end with some kind of resolution but there are other situations where, well, you just don't know what the hell is going to happen next. Like, what's going to happen with her and Quinn, Eric, Bill, and how will the Queen fair after the...party? What will she say to Sam and how will her and her new friend get along? As always, Charlaine leaves you (well at least she does with me) wanting more! There were alot of anserwed questions in this book, but, with that, many more arised in thier stead. I know that I have (probably) said this with every book, BUT, this is the best book yet! Even though I am incredibly angry with some of the character's; I am dying to see them again because I want to know what certain turn of events will bring forth. Plus I want to see more of the other people that I have just fallen in love with. LOVED THIS BOOK! ...more The title refers to the death of the undead... or: dead forever. Sookie's cousin was a vampire that got killed for having a strong affiliation with the Vampire Queen of Louisiana (I know, I know!). This was mentioned in a book before, but now the issue comes to the forefront as does the plot of book 1, which started it all. We can now fit pieces of the puzzle together, and it makes more sense to visit the past than to keep on adding characters and intersecting storylines. Mrs. Harris obviously kn The title refers to the death of the undead... or: dead forever. Sookie's cousin was a vampire that got killed for having a strong affiliation with the Vampire Queen of Louisiana (I know, I know!). This was mentioned in a book before, but now the issue comes to the forefront as does the plot of book 1, which started it all. We can now fit pieces of the puzzle together, and it makes more sense to visit the past than to keep on adding characters and intersecting storylines. Mrs. Harris obviously knows what she is doing. About \"True Blood.\" It was nominated for the Golden Globe, despite critical blahs. My favorite episode is \"The Fifth Man in the Fire\" which has Sookie thinking her bf is dead, just as her grandmother. Too many bodies piling up has Tara (who makes cameos in the books, but is not a true comrade as she is on the HBO series) thinking that Sookie is trying to commit suicide by inhaling gas fumes, when in reality all she is doing is cleaning the house her grandmother always kept neat. Also, air-time of himbo Jason Stackhouse is limited (thank god), and the cemetary sex scene is HOtttT. I have seen the series twice and it is quite captivating. Season 2 better be faithful to \"Living Dead in Dallas\", a strange sequel to a fiery start. Fellowship of the Sun, the trip to Dallas, all that better stay in. Even the maenid is introduced by Episode 10! (Exciting!) Man, I really will miss this after book 7 (I yet have to purchase the rest of the Sookie Stackhouse novels). I am entranced by this like a human would be to Bill, Eric, or any of the vampire denizens within the Charlaine Harris' Southern Vamp realm. ...more So far I'm a little frustrated with a fact that had me pleased in previous books. In previous books Harris was weaving multiple story lines in and out of Sookies life without confusing or frustrating the reader with \"too much\" going on. But in this one I'm getting frustrated with so many different stories and people causing Sookie trouble. It's a little hard to keep up and it's starting to make me wonder if I want to keep up. Where I flew through the first books I've found myself in the last two So far I'm a little frustrated with a fact that had me pleased in previous books. In previous books Harris was weaving multiple story lines in and out of Sookies life without confusing or frustrating the reader with \"too much\" going on. But in this one I'm getting frustrated with so many different stories and people causing Sookie trouble. It's a little hard to keep up and it's starting to make me wonder if I want to keep up. Where I flew through the first books I've found myself in the last two only reading a few chapters a day. I'm still interested but I really hope she tones down the 8 different story lines of \"Oh my gosh sookies in trouble!\" going on. Really. It doesn't need that much to be interesting. Eric would be enough :) ...more Actual rating: 4.5 stars So here's the thing about Sookie...she can be so insufferable at times. I don't hate her all the time and her voice doesn't grate my nerves to read, but sometimes I wish I could shake her. Also the word of the day calendar is old already. It was also quite irritating that suddenly Hadley is dead and Waldo is whodunit and we missed out on that because it's part of an anthology somewhere else. One of my favorite parts about this book is that Sookie finally gets it about Bill. Actual rating: 4.5 stars So here's the thing about Sookie...she can be so insufferable at times. I don't hate her all the time and her voice doesn't grate my nerves to read, but sometimes I wish I could shake her. Also the word of the day calendar is old already. It was also quite irritating that suddenly Hadley is dead and Waldo is whodunit and we missed out on that because it's part of an anthology somewhere else. One of my favorite parts about this book is that Sookie finally gets it about Bill. FINALLY. Girl, you took your sweet ass time, huh?! There was quite a bit of action and lots of different story arcs and I liked that. I really like Quinn, but I'm still #TeamEric. Always. I also really love Queen Sophie-Anne. Onto the next book! :) ...more It's funny because it's true... \"I was waiting for the other shoe to drop. I was waiting for that moment- you know the one I mean- the moment when your date suddenly confesses to something you just can't stomach: he reveals himself as a racist or homophobe, admits he'd never marry anyone but another Baptist (Southerner, brunette, marathon runner, whatever), tells you about his children by his first three wives, describes his fondness for being paddled, or relates his youthful experiences in blowi It's funny because it's true... \"I was waiting for the other shoe to drop. I was waiting for that moment- you know the one I mean- the moment when your date suddenly confesses to something you just can't stomach: he reveals himself as a racist or homophobe, admits he'd never marry anyone but another Baptist (Southerner, brunette, marathon runner, whatever), tells you about his children by his first three wives, describes his fondness for being paddled, or relates his youthful experiences in blowing up frogs or torturing cats. After that moment, no matter how much fun you have, you know it's not going anywhere.\" ...more I'm not really too sure what to say about this book. I liked it. It was okay. But it's a Sookie Stackhouse novel so it's still a favorite of mine. I wish there had been a bit more involvement with my favorite characters, but that's okay. Still a fun read! If you managed to get through Club Dead without hate in your heart for Bill Compton, this book is designed to remedy that. Yes, yes, there is a lot going on in this sixth installment of the Sookie Stackhouse series, but I will always think of it as the book where Bill became dead to me. (I'll come back to this later.) Definitely Dead covers a lot of ground. In fact, the first half and the second half felt like they could have been two separate (albeit short) books. The first half doesn't have m If you managed to get through Club Dead without hate in your heart for Bill Compton, this book is designed to remedy that. Yes, yes, there is a lot going on in this sixth installment of the Sookie Stackhouse series, but I will always think of it as the book where Bill became dead to me. (I'll come back to this later.) Definitely Dead covers a lot of ground. In fact, the first half and the second half felt like they could have been two separate (albeit short) books. The first half doesn't have much of a unifying theme, except that Sookie's life is in transition. The big were-tiger Quinn is in Bon Temps, to pursue a relationship with her. They go out on a date and get attacked by weres. We find out Alcide is moving on with a sweet were woman named Maria-Star. Jason's girlfriend Crystal miscarries her baby. And a whole bunch of other stuf... But the book starts to come together when Sookie is summoned to New Orleans by the Vampire Queen of Louisiana to put her dead cousin Hadley's affairs in order. While there, she befriends a witch named Amelia, gets closer to Quinn, faces grave danger and becomes embroiled in vampire politics at the highest level. But as many events as we're seeing happen throughout the course of this book (and believe it or not, I left some out!)... the interpersonal relationships are what have stuck with me now that it's over. I'm still sad and disappointed over Alcide. Though his part in the book is small, you feel the end of the possibility of a relationship between him and Sookie. I feel big warm and fuzzies for Quinn. I know not everyone likes him (and his overuse of the word \"babe\" can't be ignored,) but he is charming and strong... and most importantly, he is good to Sookie. Being a good guy comes naturally to him. There's not much of Eric here, though he is always a treat when he's around... And then there is Bill. Here we find out the true depths of his deceptions in his relationship with Sookie. Yes, he hurt her with his indiscretions with Lorena. But over the course of the last two books, Sookie was beginning to forgive him and, perhaps, see him as a friend. And then the truth came out. As many tough knocks as Sookie has taken in these books, none have hurt worse than this one. The foundation of her self-worth is badly shaken. And to me, any chance Bill had for a future with her is gone forever. I hope he chokes on a sunshine sandwich. 4 stars. P.S. If the introduction of Hadley's death leaves you feeling like you missed something, then you probably didn't read \"One Word Answer.\" It's a short story that details Mr Cataliades' visit to Bon Temps to inform Sookie of Hadley's death and the circumstances surrounding it. It was originally released as part of the Bite anthology and was re-released in A Touch of Dead . ...more I didn't know whether to give this book a 4 or a 5. Before I start, I want to say there is a short story that I have not read before reading Definitely Dead that seemed pretty significant to the book but it's not so bad that you'll be lost. It came with my ebook version (I have ebook as well as the book for those long moments I'm doing my hair) called \"One Word Answer\", I'm guessing that's it. I don't think it's necessary because like I said, you don't get too lost but you'll probably be more com I didn't know whether to give this book a 4 or a 5. Before I start, I want to say there is a short story that I have not read before reading Definitely Dead that seemed pretty significant to the book but it's not so bad that you'll be lost. It came with my ebook version (I have ebook as well as the book for those long moments I'm doing my hair) called \"One Word Answer\", I'm guessing that's it. I don't think it's necessary because like I said, you don't get too lost but you'll probably be more comfortable *shrug* A small tiff I have about about these books is that sometimes they're not pretty accurate about the description of the book but whatever, its no big thing (Not much bothers me) The \"Plot\" doesn't get up and running until about the first hundred thirty pages when Sookie makes her trip to N'awlins (New Orleans, I'm a foreigner can't ya tell? hahaha) with Bill, her still estranged bf, Mr. Cataliades and Diantha (Demons!). Before all that, there's a mini mystery involving Holly that we could've done without and a teeny bit focus on Quinn and Sookie forming a relationship, then the ball gets rolling... One night with Quinn, Sookie and her date are attacked (After seeing such a delightful production such as The Producers, might I add) in Shreveport. By bitten Weres. Whoa-oh. Time to take it to the pack! Now after the ending of Dead As A Doornail, I haven't been too right with Alcide and he is only briefly in the book and this is it. Now with that hanging over her head and a murder takes place on Sookie's property (naturally), then Sookie gives in on the \"required\" trip. Now the juices are simmering on low. You meet another witch, who kinda grows on ya like a fungus, and things start to get really interesting and I won't tell you why. This is just one of those \"You must read\" books because spilling too much ruins the element of surprise then it's not really much now, is it? The reason why I was stuck giving it a 4 or a 5 because there were quite a few parts that was mundane to me but whatever. Let me just say the ending made up for all of that! Plus there was an actual bayou and Quinn shifts into a tiger and trots around in it! AWESOME. ...more Sookie travels to New Orleans to settle the affairs of her estranged cousin, Hadley. She recently learned that Hadley became a vampire and a favorite of Louisiana's Queen before her second death at the hands of a jealous rival. If none of this sounds familiar, that's because it was revealed as part of that obnoxious trend of short stories that include plots important to a series. Harris recaps the necessary info, but it's obviously much less satisfying than reading about the situation first-hand Sookie travels to New Orleans to settle the affairs of her estranged cousin, Hadley. She recently learned that Hadley became a vampire and a favorite of Louisiana's Queen before her second death at the hands of a jealous rival. If none of this sounds familiar, that's because it was revealed as part of that obnoxious trend of short stories that include plots important to a series. Harris recaps the necessary info, but it's obviously much less satisfying than reading about the situation first-hand. I have mixed feelings about this one. It's interesting to see Sookie grow as a character, and even more interesting that this growth is making her a harsher person. A fantastic twist is introduced, it has deep personal significance to Sookie and at the same time affects our view of previous events in the series. A side plot that was getting tiring is also wrapped up, at least for now. The ending was exciting, though it seemed strangely disconnected from the rest of the book. That works as long as you just view it as setup for up the drama of All Together Dead . On the negative side, I have a hard time seeing Quinn as a romantic lead. I think this is because I can never quite understand why Sookie views him this way apart from his frequently-referenced hotness. And Sookie's decision about Amelia at the end of the book feels a little forced and random. This is probably the Southern Vampire book that holds up the least well when it comes to repeat readings. I really enjoyed it the first time around, because some of the scenes are fantastically tense. But now that I know the answer to the mysteries and the outcome of the twists, there just isn't enough else there. ...more Not enough Eric to make it really interesting. In this book Sookie finds out something else about Bill and it undermines her confidence big time. My advice is: turn to Eric. No! She turns to Quinn, the tiger shifter, who is pretty hot in theory but he does nothing for me. The story revolves around Debbie Pelt (I do hope she's definitely dead) and Hadley, Sookie's vampire dead cousin, who played a trick to her lover, the Vampire Queen of Louisiana, before being killed. I like the Queen of Louisian Not enough Eric to make it really interesting. In this book Sookie finds out something else about Bill and it undermines her confidence big time. My advice is: turn to Eric. No! She turns to Quinn, the tiger shifter, who is pretty hot in theory but he does nothing for me. The story revolves around Debbie Pelt (I do hope she's definitely dead) and Hadley, Sookie's vampire dead cousin, who played a trick to her lover, the Vampire Queen of Louisiana, before being killed. I like the Queen of Louisiana, but the plot of the missing jewels was too much like The Three Musketeers for my tastes. The book gives new information about Sookie (Bill's real motive to meet her at the beginning of the series and Sookie's fairy ancestry) but the story is not really moving forward like I felt it did in the two previous installments. I hope something more happens in the next book. I really liked the part of the book where Sookie used her powers as a telepath to help the police. The book was entertaining, but not really dazzling. ...more", "Title": "Definitely Dead"},
