{"Comments": "RICHELLE MEAD, I AM ABOUT TO TURN INTO A RAGING STRIGOI. THAT WAS SERIOUSLY THE WORST ENDING EVER. LIKE WHAT THE--I CAN'T EVEN COMPREHEND HOW IDIOTIC SYDNEY IS. ADRIAN IS CLEARLY MEANT TO BE WITH HER.*HEAVY, MURDEROUS BREATHING* THIS IS WHAT I FEEL LIKE DOING TO SYDNEY: Okay enough with the caps. The only thing is, I found it annoying how Adrian kept reiterating that he was a better person because of her. Like that hasn't ever come up in YA lit before..<---F>but still</---F>. He was pretty swoon-worthy. And I do RICHELLE MEAD, I AM ABOUT TO TURN INTO A RAGING STRIGOI. THAT WAS SERIOUSLY THE WORST ENDING EVER. LIKE WHAT THE--I CAN'T EVEN COMPREHEND HOW IDIOTIC SYDNEY IS. ADRIAN IS CLEARLY MEANT TO BE WITH HER.*HEAVY, MURDEROUS BREATHING* THIS IS WHAT I FEEL LIKE DOING TO SYDNEY: Okay enough with the caps. The only thing is, I found it annoying how Adrian kept reiterating that he was a better person because of her. Like that hasn't ever come up in YA lit before..but still. He was pretty swoon-worthy. And I don't usually fan girl for this type of thing. In conclusion, I hate you <---A>Richelle Mead</---A>. Just kidding. I don't know how I would survive without your books, but still. I might turn into a monster if you don't allow Adrian and Sydney to be together. ...more The Adrian & Sydney Fan Fav Scene! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vNFudW... Adrian & Sydney Blackout Scene! https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature... Adrian YA Crush Tournament Winner! That was soooo good! Adrian is soooo wonderful! I just want to lie naked at his feet covered in alcohol and cigarettes and beg him to have his way with me! Adrian,<---M> my poor</---M>, sweet, sexy Adrian, he goes through a lot in this book. Working with Dimitri continues to bring up how inferior he feels. I thought Dimitri The Adrian & Sydney Fan Fav Scene! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vNFudW... Adrian & Sydney Blackout Scene! https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature... Adrian YA Crush Tournament Winner! That was soooo good! Adrian is soooo wonderful! I just want to lie naked at his feet covered in alcohol and cigarettes and beg him to have his way with me! Adrian, my poor, sweet, sexy Adrian, he goes through a lot in this book. Working with Dimitri continues to bring up how inferior he feels. I thought Dimitri was rather rude to him a few times but then again I am very protective of my Adrian. Also a visit with his dad reminds us how much Adrian has been put down all his life. They will sure be sorry when Adrian cures all the Stroigoi, saves Moroi kind, and becomes a big hero and they build statues of him. Adrian is very smart, caring, loyal and talented and just needs someone to believe in him. And Sydney does. She continues to support him and I felt them grow so much closer but we still have a very long journey ahead. I am not a big fan of Sydney but she did grow on me a tiny bit in this one. Trey sets her up with Brayden, her twin basically. Sydney tries to have fun with him since he is on her level intellectually but she finds herself worrying about someone else... I felt Sydney finally letting down her guard with the vampires and she really worried and cared about my Adrian, so big bonus points! As much as I am growing to like her, I was still disappointed with some of her actions. (<---B>Like not immediately jumping Adrian?! lol</---B>) She does have a lot of lifelong prejudices to overcome. The alchemists are scary, bad people, and we see in this book what happens when someone is too friendly with the vampires. Sydney will need a lot of strength to break away from them like I hope she will eventually. It didn't help that Jill was discussing her own troubled love life with her. Jill was a bit annoying to me in Bloodlines and while she is still naive, I found that she was maturing. She wants to date and thinks that maybe she can have something casual with Micah. She quickly realizes how difficult keeping secrets can be and that being with a human could never be a permanent thing. Jill begins to take her position as sister to the queen seriously and a human/moroi relationship is simply not allowed. I do feel really bad for Jill and the position she is in. Eddie is still her loyal protector. I love Eddie and also felt a lot of growth with his character. I was very happy with all the character developments. In Bloodlines I really didn't enjoy anyone but Adrian and of course he is still the absolute best part, star of the show, wouldn't be anything without him, but I enjoyed everyone during this book. Eddie is so kind even when trying to keep the new frisky Angeline off his back. She likes to rub up on him during training and well who wouldn't. Angeline was so funny. She was completely out there and did whatever she wanted, causing a lot of trouble for Sydney. I just want to go on and on, especially about Adrian, but I must stop myself. I've probably said too much already! I'm very happy it was the next level of action, romance, character development and Adrian awesomeness that I was hoping for. Adrian continues to swoon an amaze me. I shall head back to my Adrian altar and continuing worshiping until the next book. Feel free to join me. Can't wait to see what happens next. Day 24. Situation is growing worse. My captors continue to find new and horrific ways to torture me. When not working, Agent Scarlet spends her days examining fabric swatches for bridesmaid dresses and going on about how in love she is. This usually causes Agent Boring Borscht to regale us with stories of Russian weddings that are even more boring than his usual ones. My attempts at escape have been thwarted thus far. Also, I am out of cigarettes. Any assistance or tobacco products you can send will be greatly appreciated. -Prisoner 24601 \"Really, Sage? A date?\" I sighed. \"Yes, Adrian. A date.\" \"A real date. Not, like, doing homework together,\" he added. \"I mean like where you go out to a movie or something. And a movie that's not part of a school assignment. Or about something boring.\" \"A real date.\" I'd mentioned this odd wardrobe choice to Adrian a couple of weeks ago: \"Isn't Dimitri hot?\" Adrian's response hadn't been entirely unexpected: \"Well, yeah, according to most women, at least.\" \"I'm not really qualified to install a security system,\" said Dimitri. \"Really? There's something that you can't do?\" Adrian's voice was so soft that I could barely hear him, and he was sitting right next to me. \"You'd give up drinking to go see your dad?\" \"Well, not permanently,\" he said. \"That'd be ridiculous. But maybe I could switch to something slightly cheaper for a while. Like...slushes. Do you know how much I love those? Cherry, especially.\" \"I don't know,\" said Adrian thoughtfully. \"I find prostitutes vastly important.\" Adrian ordered a martini, earning disapproving looks from his father and me. \"It's barely noon,\" said Nathan. \"I know,\" said Adrian. \"I'm surprised I held out that long too.\" \"Never thought I'd see the day when you'd throw your arms around a vam - someone like me.\" \"Doesn't matter. I've decided I don't like him.\" \"Because he's too smart?\" I said. I remember Jill and Eddie's early comments. \"And unmemorable?\" \"Nah. I just think you can do better.\" \"He shouldn't have said that,\" repeated Adrian, eerily serious. He leaned his face toward mine. \"I don't care if he's not the emotional type or the complimentary type or what. No one can look at you in this dress, in all that fire and gold, and start talking about anachronisms. If I were him, I would have said, 'You are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth.'\" \"You're in an awfully good mood,\" he observed. \"Was there a sale at Khakis-R-Us?\" \"Why would you do that? Why would you act like you didn't know how to drive?\" \"Isn't it obvious, Sage? No, of course it isn't. I did it so I'd have a reason to be around you-one I knew you couldn't refuse.\" ...more My review can also be found on my blog Collections . 'You are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth.' Oh my god...this book! Wow. After enjoying Bloodlines immensely, it was pretty much inevitable that I would love <+++>The Golden Lily</+++> . This book exceeded all my expectations, and I'm more obsessed with this series now than I already was before. I just can't get enough of it! In Bloodlines , the focus was on learning about the Alchemists and Sydney bonding with her new group of \"s My review can also be found on my blog Collections . 'You are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth.' Oh my god...this book! Wow. After enjoying Bloodlines immensely, it was pretty much inevitable that I would love <+++>The Golden Lily</+++> . This book exceeded all my expectations, and I'm more obsessed with this series now than I already was before. I just can't get enough of it! In Bloodlines , the focus was on learning about the Alchemists and Sydney bonding with her new group of \"siblings.\" We do learn a bit about the Alchemists, magic, and even the so-called vampire hunters in The Golden Lily , but I felt the story mostly revolved around getting to know Sydney more and her evolving relationships with the characters around her. There was slightly more action than in the previous book. It might not be as much as some want; however, I think there's lots of action to come later. And I can't help but to trust where Richelle Mead is going with this story because so far I'm very happy with how she's developing these characters and their relationships. Likeable characters and great relationships are always what I want in the books I read and this series has that, which is why I want to focus on my two favorite characters: Sydney and Adrian! I adore Sydney and Adrian so much. Those two are some of the most awesome characters I've read about. They are both kind, funny (although, I don't think Sydney realizes how hilarious some of the things she says can be), smart (yes, Adrian is; just give him a chance!), and protective of others. And when they're together, they challenge and bring out the best in each other. Their relationship is perfect! I get a big smile on my face and my heart flutters whenever they interact or are even in the same room. I about died from happiness a couple of times while reading this book because of them. They are definitely the main reason why I love this series. Sydney is still uptight at times, but she's opening up quickly and we're starting to see another side of her. While she hasn't gotten over her Alchemists beliefs just yet, she continues to make decisions based on what she believes is right. And some of her actions won't be viewed favorably by the Alchemists at all . It worries me, but I'm impressed with her bravery and glad she has a conscience, unlike other Alchemists. As for Adrian, he keeps surprising me. I feel so guilty now for not caring about him in Vampire Academy . We get to see more of his vulnerable side in this book, and it really hurt to see him down and upset because of the situation with his father and with what spirit does to his mind. I could also include the whole thing with Rose, but I won't. I really don't think it's about that anymore. He deserves a huge hug and so does Sydney! I'm just loving and having lots of fun with the Bloodlines series. And if you thought the ending of the first book was crazy, wait until you read the ending of The Golden Lily . I had to reread it a couple of times because it was that good. It made me wish I had the next book in my hands right now! (I'm already stalking following Richelle Mead's tweets, hoping for ANY mention of the third book.) Thankfully I have other books to distract me in the meantime, but seriously. I need book three. With amazing characters and relationships and a very intriguing story, Bloodlines is well on it's way to becoming one of my all time favorite series. I cannot wait to read more! First reading: April 16-17, 2012 Second reading: February 16-26, 2013 ...more I'm done. No more. Not interested. Thank you very much. I am once again, the minority here among all my other goodreads friends. So why don't I like this book? These are my answers: 1) The whole book is BORING!!! The only action that I read about is when they got jumped and that's it. 2) Sydney - IRRITATING as hell. There is only one Rose Hathaway. She is no heroine. No fighter. And she is annoying. The \"intellectual\" talk with the so called \"date\"? 3) Jill - seriously? Just get killed already. People I'm done. No more. Not interested. Thank you very much. I am once again, the minority here among all my other goodreads friends. So why don't I like this book? These are my answers: 1) The whole book is BORING!!! The only action that I read about is when they got jumped and that's it. 2) Sydney - IRRITATING as hell. There is only one Rose Hathaway. She is no heroine. No fighter. And she is annoying. The \"intellectual\" talk with the so called \"date\"? 3) Jill - seriously? Just get killed already. People are trying to protect her but no...she wants to be featured on magazines. Thinking about love and oh.. she's just useless in this book. 4) Angeline - a joke. Another rose wannabe? With the clothes, the rashness? NO! 5) Eddie - whatever you are there for. I don't know. 6) Adrian - what in the world has happened to you? I am heart broken. My Adrian is no more. Goodbye. Pair off with whoever you want. If I miss you, I will read the VA series but not these. 7) The whatever love triangles that will be happening there from book 3 onwards. The denial. The wrongs of being together and etc etc. W-H-A-T-E-V-E-R! SO, I am done. 4 more books to go? NO WAY! I will always love Richelle Mead's work but not this spin off. No. ...more Another successful buddyread with my sis Bea . You'll see her beautiful review when you click her name. :) One word to fully describe the awesomeness of this book: ADRIAN. Holy craaap! This boy is one of the best, swoon-worthy fictional guys and it's so unfair we could not see him in the flesh! After reading this book, I was left utterly speechless and blown away. It was way too good! Most sequels in a series tend to give me some doubts with their potentials because oftentimes an author changes his Another successful buddyread with my sis Bea . You'll see her beautiful review when you click her name. :) One word to fully describe the awesomeness of this book: ADRIAN. Holy craaap! This boy is one of the best, swoon-worthy fictional guys and it's so unfair we could not see him in the flesh! After reading this book, I was left utterly speechless and blown away. It was way too good! Most sequels in a series tend to give me some doubts with their potentials because oftentimes an author changes his or her tune and the end product sometimes disappoints me. But in this sweet, sweet sequel, I put all my faith and 100% belief that it will turn out good and I was right. It was one of the most amazing installments in a series. Because Richelle Mead apparently does not disappoint. I loved how The Golden Lily lived up to the interesting plot and romance that made the first book Bloodlines an enjoyable read. In this book, <---C>Sydney Sage</---C> and Adrian Ivashkov 's character was greatly developed as they continued to hide under the radar of the enemies of St. Vladimir Academy. There were lots of things that happened here and new characters were introduced, too. I wasn't disappointed with the way things had panned out in this book. The plotline was so good and the pacing was fast. No dull moments as well. It was also nice to see the (non-insta-love) romantic development between Sydney and Adrian. Their romance, in a way, was slow-burning and tension-fueled and I totally loved it! What also basically got me hooked was how likable the characters were. Sydney is a female lead that I will love to befriend in real life because she is so smart, determined, and mature. I loved how she has this positive attitude that everything can be done-- no matter how difficult that thing is. She especially encourages and inspires Adrian to be the best that he can be, and that is something. Adrian is also one great male lead. Since Vampire Academy, this guy already took my breath away because of his humor and romantic gestures. He didn't change in this series. In fact, his character became even better! I also loved the humor and the witty exchange of dialogues here. When you pair Sydney and Adrian together, everything collides so perfectly!!! Apart from that, Richelle Mead also made this book even more interesting because of the side characters like Eddie , Jill , Angeline , Sonya , Trey , Dimitri , etc. The value of friendship and family love was so touching! These are my favorite lines from Adrian that basically knocked me off my feet: \"I tried to be a better person for her (Rose)\u2013 but it was to impress her, to get her to want me. But when I\u2019m around you, I want to be better because\u2026 well, because it feels right. Because I want to. You make me want to become something greater than myself. I want to excel. You inspire me in every act, every word, every glance. I look at you, and you\u2019re like\u2026 like light made into flesh. You have no clue how beautiful you are or how brightly you shine.\" *gasps All in all, I had a great time with The Golden Lily . After reading it, all I wanted to do was read the next book which is The Indigo Spell . :) It was just everything I wanted in a sequel! Rating: ...more Ahh. This book was awesome. I really really enjoyed the first book, but I think this book was a lot better! I can't wait to get the next!! If you're reading this on your phone, there are spoilers ahead, so beware! (view spoiler) [ So I kind of guessed that Trey was a vampire hunter. We kept hearing about these hunters over and over... And after the first book, I kind of wondered if maybe all of those deaths were just Lee and not hunters... After Trey started getting those bruises I wondered if th Ahh. This book was awesome. I really really enjoyed the first book, but I think this book was a lot better! I can't wait to get the next!! If you're reading this on your phone, there are spoilers ahead, so beware! (view spoiler) [ So I kind of guessed that Trey was a vampire hunter. We kept hearing about these hunters over and over... And after the first book, I kind of wondered if maybe all of those deaths were just Lee and not hunters... After Trey started getting those bruises I wondered if there was something more... Then after Sydney's attacker reacted the way he did, I figured out it was him. I'm really nervous about how the hunters act towards the Moroi and what will happen in the future books. They better not hurt Adrian or anyone like that. Naturally I've been waiting for Adrian to tell Sydney how he felt for some time now. Who else picked up on how Jill was acting to Sydney was actually coming through the bond? I thought it was pretty funny how she just kept talking about how beautiful she was all the time. I loved the night of the Halloween dance, her \"teaching\" him to drive (who else guessed he was just pretending? ), the self defense class, and of course the last chapter of the book. I think it's so adorable that Adrian paints. The lily part was so cute! Obviously I was thrilled when they finally kissed and he confessed his feelings. But I dont think any of us were that surprised with how Sydney reacted. She's been terrified of vampires her whole life. Just because she's friends with them now doesn't mean she's going to be okay with them making out with her.... I'm sure she'll get over it soon. ;) or at least I hope. Who else was super bored with Braydon? I think he was an awesome FRIEND for Sydney, and they definitely have a lot they can talk about, but everyone could see there wasn't any passion. Not like the way it is with Adrian. I thought it was hilarious when he broke up with her for being \"irresponsible\" LOL I feel about for Jill and her love life again. Once again the book is over and she's still not with the right guy. I guess it would have been just TOO easy if her and Eddie had gotten together right away. I'm kind of tired of Angeline though... What does everyone think about Sydney's weird blood? Is it connected with her being able to do magic maybe? Guess we'll find out later.. I know she's terrified of anything magical but I think it's pretty awesome that she can make amulets and things. (hide spoiler) ] I can't wait to get the third book! I'm away from home at the moment, and won't return until tomorrow. I had no idea I'd finish this book so quickly or I'd have brought the third as well... ...more 4.5 Stars When Vampire Academy ended and I found out we were getting a spinoff series, I was a little skeptical. I mean how to you top Rose and Dimitri? But after I found out it was centered on Sydney Sage, the awkward Alchemist, and Adrian the sexy, flippant but loveable Moroi, I was totally on board. I loved Bloodlines and after reading this, I think the series just keeps getting better. In this installment, we pick up right where we left off in Bloodlines. The group is minus the traitorous Kei 4.5 Stars When Vampire Academy ended and I found out we were getting a spinoff series, I was a little skeptical. I mean how to you top Rose and Dimitri? But after I found out it was centered on Sydney Sage, the awkward Alchemist, and Adrian the sexy, flippant but loveable Moroi, I was totally on board. I loved Bloodlines and after reading this, I think the series just keeps getting better. In this installment, we pick up right where we left off in Bloodlines. The group is minus the traitorous Keith, with Sydney making points for handling the situation so well. Dimitri and Sonya have arrived to study spirit with Adrian. Both the vampire community and the Alchemists want to find out why, once a Strigoi is changed back into their original state, they will never be able to be turned back to Strigoi again. Sydney, Jill, and Eddie continue to attend Amberwood Prep as siblings but they have a new addition to assist in the protection of Jill: Angeline, the dhampir from the Keepers, a separatist group of Moroi, dhampir, and humans who don't care for the rules of the Moroi court. Angeline is a fun addition to their group, and I like how she mixes things up for Jill and Eddie! Richelle Mead really shines in character development, and this is my favorite part of this story. Sydney had come a long way since we first met her in VA. Her prejudices are slowly breaking down. She is finally seeing the Moroi, and dhampirs as people, not as evil, unnatural creatures. My favorite part of her growth, though, is that in relation to Adrian. To see them grow close, and lean on each other was a real pleasure. There are many moments of swoon and hilarity. Adrian is his usual wise-cracking self, and then Sydney can just be so clueless with social situations, you can't help but laugh. The best part with them is seeing how much they genuinely care for one another. I've always had a soft-spot for Adrian. In VA, he helped Rose so much without questions or strings attached (well, maybe a little bit of string!). But I always thought he went above and beyond for her, as well as Jill. He's even more of a sweetheart in this book. There were times I would be sighing, oh Adrian ! I don't want to give anything away, but fans of \"Sydrian\" will not be disappointed. Alexa used this quote in her review, but I have to put it in mine too because I LOVE IT!!!: \"You are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth. And you don't even know it.\" And I have to give you this one too: \"Sage,\" he said. \"What are you wearing?\" I sighed and stared down at the dress. \"I know. It's red. Don't start. I'm tired of hearing about it.\" \"Funny,\" he said. \"I don't think I could ever get tired of looking at it.\" Yep, there was definite swooning!! There is not as much action in this series as there was in VA. I think this is because both Sydney and Adrian are not fighters. I have a feeling we will see more action in the coming books, though, and I don't think these two will be on the sidelines. Sydney's reluctant education into the world of magic continues, and I think Adrian will feel the need to be more proactive with defense, in the future. These are just speculations on my part, we shall see. As for the ending, all I can say is WOW!! I can't wait until the next book! Thank you so much , Alexa, for lending me your precious copy!! I had a blast with all the notations! ...more SERIOUSLY????????????? I HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL JUNE NOW??????????????????????? WTF HAPPENED TO THE MARCH RELEASE? OR EVEN THE MAY RELEASE??????????????? all I'm gonna say is that if Adrian and Sydney don't kiss AT LEAST once in this book I will be forced to go out and kill someone ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. OK so now that SERIOUSLY????????????? I HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL JUNE NOW??????????????????????? WTF HAPPENED TO THE MARCH RELEASE? OR EVEN THE MAY RELEASE??????????????? all I'm gonna say is that if Adrian and Sydney don't kiss AT LEAST once in this book I will be forced to go out and kill someone ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. OK so now that I finished the book I WILL GO AND CRY MYSELF TO SLEEP TONIGHT BECAUSE I NOW LOVE ADRIAN AND FEEL SO FREAKING BAD FOR HIM AND I FEEL TERRIBLE FOR JILL AND HAVE COMPLETELY CONFLICTING FEELING FOR SYDNEY I mean honestly I don't know if I should admire her or hate her with a passion right now ...more 3.5 holy jeezbus that was some ending! one word people: goosebumps. my favourite bits were the ones with Adrian in it =D - typical Kissa response. He's just so damn irresistible. the thing with the two books in this series is that I'm not particularly crazy about it in the beginning or the middle - not that i don't like it, it's just that it's not a \"whoa!\" kinda thing. But the lead up to the ending (and most importantly: the actual ending) grab me and whip me out of my \"non-whoa!\" state, only to 3.5 holy jeezbus that was some ending! one word people: goosebumps. my favourite bits were the ones with Adrian in it =D - typical Kissa response. He's just so damn irresistible. the thing with the two books in this series is that I'm not particularly crazy about it in the beginning or the middle - not that i don't like it, it's just that it's not a \"whoa!\" kinda thing. But the lead up to the ending (and most importantly: the actual ending) grab me and whip me out of my \"non-whoa!\" state, only to throw me into an \"Oh my God what the hell just happened?!\" kinda position. I wish that would happen more throughout, but it doesn't. Still, i like this one better than the first book. *** i just re-skimmed the VA series and Bloodlines . =( i really miss Adrian. *** yeah! chapter 1 and 2 !!!!!! http://richellemead.com/excerpt/excer... wow, this site is awesome if you want a few teasers. i warn you though! they are very heavy on the teasers. they're all the ones that know just where to hit me: Adrian and Sydney *** okay, i still haven't actually read this book, but I just wandered onto The Indigo Spell , and now i feel like i really, really, really have to read it! watch, I'm gonna buy it two days from now and finish it within a day or two depending on how much time i have to read it. Argh! there's something about Adrian! oh, Adrian, I'm scared to read this just because of everyone's crazy reactions to the end of The Golden Lily (as seen through the Bloodlines 3 link) and i know it's about you ! So don't hide from me Mister! *** GIVE. ME. THE. BOOK! I still want lots of Adrian in this. In fact, I demand it! Ohh... I love the guy. I don't want him to hurt anymore. Something must be done. Please have some romance, please have some romance. You know, most preferably with Adrian. Mead will probably shove Trey into the mix, but I don't mind. Just give me something! Yes! I just read the blurb and noticed the \"forbidden romances\" part. whew! I suppose that could mean heaps of people, but I want it to be either about Sydney with Adrian/Trey or Jill with Eddie/Micah oh! or Eddie and Angeline! Oh whatever! I just want some controversy! oh, Jill is a cutie. Hm... Jill was so central in the first book, I wonder how much more central she's gonna be in this one since she's on the cover this time. Or what I assume is her anyways. Oh! Unless it means her character is going to develop, cause Adrian was on the front of Bloodlines, but he wasn't in it that much. Not like Jill was. oooooooooh! i especially like the 'Sydney finds herself being drawn to someone else\u2014someone forbidden to her' part. ;) so long as this 'someone' is Adrian. *** ...and a Q&A from entertainment weekly: Did you know that the last line of Bloodlines would create such a stir? I kind of hoped it would, but some of the reactions surprised me! I had a few people say they threw the book across the room in happiness when they read that line, which is funny since a lot of people also threw Shadow Kiss across their rooms in frustration when they read the last line of that book. I guess my books are just destined to take a beating\u2026 but hopefully it\u2019s a compliment. Something tells me The Golden Lily may see a few walls. What can you tell us about Dimitri\u2019s role in the second book? Well, since Sydney, Adrian, Jill, and Eddie are our stars in this series, Dimitri\u2019s in more of a support role here compared to the other series. That being said, fans can rest assured that he\u2019s still doing plenty of what he does best: being hot, kicking ass, and dropping words of wisdom with a Russian accent. How will the bond between Sydney, Eddie, Adrian, and Jill continue to evolve? This group really is like a little family. Each of them grows and faces new challenges in the series, which then affects their relationships with each other. They have their dysfunctional moments but are ultimately close and supportive of each other. Angeline from the Keepers joins their circle in this book, which adds an even more unpredictable (and fun) element to it all. Was it hard to get used to writing from Sydney\u2019s point of view in the first Bloodlines? Very difficult. In any series, whether it\u2019s a spin-off or not, you have to really know your narrator well in order to pull off a good voice. A lot of that can only be learned \u201con the job,\u201d after you\u2019ve written a fair amount. I\u2019m working on the third book in the series now, and I think I\u2019ve got the hang of Sydney \u2014 though I\u2019ll never be quite as smart as she is. Will there be more romance in Golden Lily? There\u2019s romance everywhere in this book. \u201cThe World of Richelle Mead\u201d app just came out \u2013 what do you like most about this new way of connecting with your fans? I love seeing where people are reading the books around the world. I get e-mail from readers from all different places, but seeing it right there on a map takes it to a whole other level. It\u2019s amazing and very humbling. I feel so lucky that my books have all that support! ...more After Reading it: WHAT? I MEAN... WHAT??????????????????????????? YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO ME, RICHELLE, YOU CAN'T. THIS IS JUST CRUEL. C-R-U-E-L. Ok, I can't really write what I feel right now. I don't think there are words to describe what I'm feeling, so I will just... I WILL NOT WAIT TILL FEBRUARY (but sadly, I will *NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO*). THIS IS JUST TOO MUCH *NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO* *** FINALLY RELEASED!!! Finally on my shelf <3 My love, keep waiting just a little bit till I finish my exams and then w After Reading it: WHAT? I MEAN... WHAT??????????????????????????? YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO ME, RICHELLE, YOU CAN'T. THIS IS JUST CRUEL. C-R-U-E-L. Ok, I can't really write what I feel right now. I don't think there are words to describe what I'm feeling, so I will just... I WILL NOT WAIT TILL FEBRUARY (but sadly, I will *NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO*). THIS IS JUST TOO MUCH *NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO* *** FINALLY RELEASED!!! Finally on my shelf <3 My love, keep waiting just a little bit till I finish my exams and then we will finally be together.... *____* P.S. I HATE MY EXAMS. SO MUCH. \u00e7_____________________________\u00e7 **** 10/06/12 - Two days.... Just two days.... JUST TWO DAYS... Thank God, I don't think I would have been able to make it another week. I'm losing it. 17/05/12 - I can't visit Tumblr anymore till the 12th of June. 01/05/12 - ONE MONTH!!!! JUST ONE!!!!!!! And the new teaser quote...? Perhaps the best part of all was that I, Sydney Katherine Sage, guilty of constantly analysing the world around me, well, I stopped thinking. This teaser is simply cruel *** 20/04/12 - Ok, I keep thinking about this book. Richelle, what have you done to me?? Can't you see what damages you're doing to my brain/heart???? P.s. Please, let the forbidden guy be Adrian! *** The Golden Lily, dearest, why can't you fall from the sky directly in my arms? WHY? ...more \"Rose once told me about this poem she'd read. There was this line, 'If your eyes weren't open, you wouldn't know the difference between dreaming and waking.' You know what I'm afraid of? That someday, even with my eyes open, I still won't know.\" We always knew Adrian battled with the darkness that comes along with wielding spirit magic but something about this book really drove it home to me. In the original VA series, Adrian hid so much of his pain with a heavy dose of alcohol and humor. He \"Rose once told me about this poem she'd read. There was this line, 'If your eyes weren't open, you wouldn't know the difference between dreaming and waking.' You know what I'm afraid of? That someday, even with my eyes open, I still won't know.\" We always knew Adrian battled with the darkness that comes along with wielding spirit magic but something about this book really drove it home to me. In the original VA series, Adrian hid so much of his pain with a heavy dose of alcohol and humor. He still continues to do this but his defenses have started slipping around Sydney. I appreciated that he wasn't quite as wussy in this book. We got to see a tiny hint of protectiveness. Big nod of approval over the growl! I was going to come back and write an actual review but realized that there was no need. I love Richelle Mead. Her characters always get inside of my soul. Her world building and stories stay with me long after I'm finished. The idea of trying to summarize any book of hers with intelligent thoughts is always daunting and I'm pretty sure I fail every time I try. So instead, I'm not going to try this time. I'm just going to have a moment of fangirl gushing over my favorite author, since I rarely allow myself to let my inner preteen jump for joy. Adrian (age 21) He had me at \"little dhampir,\" but his wit is what continues to keep me coming back. I'll admit that it's interesting to see his tortured soul, as long as he doesn't lose the humor just because his dad's a douchebag. Adrian's self-pity sort of hampered his usual vibe and I missed some of the old personality, but I understood why the story is going down the path that it is. He was more good-looking than he had any right to be. He wore his dark brown hair stylishly messy and had eyes that sometimes seemed too green to be real. He smelled like he'd been smoking recently, which I didn't like. Eddie (age 18) I've always had a soft spot for Eddie and have wanted to know more about him ever since the beginning of the original Vampire Academy series. His determination to do right by the people he protects has always made me compare him to a junior version of Dimitri and it made me smile with a sense of pride when he was told that exact same thing in this book. Eddie - keep up with your bad-ass-ness. You'll get the girl someday, even if she has no clue how you feel. Eddie was lean and muscled, but most people underestimated just how strong he was. Adrian sometimes called him mini-Dimitri. [image error] Dimitri (age 24) Okay, so you're not a prominent character in this book but thanks for being there in some form, even if it's just to assist and protect. Good job holding it down for the less experienced peeps. You'll always be my number one. Even if I'd been wide awake, I knew Dimitri would've taken my suitcase anyway. That's how he was, a lost remnant of chivalry in the modern world, ever-ready to help others. That was one of the many striking things about Dimitri. I'd seen him fight before, but it never got old. He was captivating. He never stopped moving. Every action was graceful and lethal. He was a dancer of death. Sydney (age 18) She's come a long way from the days of Blood Promise , when I didn't even like her. I know that she's not Rose but that's okay . Mead's biggest strength as a writer is not recycling stories and characters in too big of a way (sometimes you can't help a few similarities). So many authors don't know how to come up with new concepts!!! It's very cool to see a main character who uses her intelligence to solve problems - especially when a good portion of the people around her seem to be fighters. In order for this series to be different from VA (especially when most of the characters have crossed over), it was completely necessary to have a lead role who was drastically different from the last one. It's never a Mead book without tons of random silliness sprinkled throughout. I would have shared the fistfight in the gym that was started with the anti-drug group (because it's always fun to see cheesy mascot people punched out) but it was far too long. So we'll go with Adrian and Sydney at their first self-defense class : \"If you're here,\" he began. \"You probably want to learn to use those right away.\" He pointed at the nunchucks. I caught sight of Adrian's face in the mirror. His expression said, Yes, that is exactly what I want to learn. \"Well, too bad,\" said Wolfe. \"You aren't ever going to use them. Not in this class, anyway. Oh, they've got their uses, believe me. Saved my ass more than once when I was out bow-hunting in Alaska. But if you pay attention to wht I'm going to tell you, you won't ever need to pick those up, seeing as we don't have a rabid moose problem here in Palm Springs.\" The new mom raised her hand. \"You used nunchucks on a moose?\" ...more After a long break from reading books like a maniac I'm back on track at devouring books like snickers. I first gave this 3 stars but then I thought to myself \"I am being to harsh\" and so I changed my rating to that of 4 stars, and maybe I'm being generous but I liked this a lot, so that's what I made my mind up to. Back on the amazing world of vampires, Richelle Mead created and which I'm grateful for. I'm no beginner to this world. I read VA two years ago and started Bloodlines a few months ago After a long break from reading books like a maniac I'm back on track at devouring books like snickers. I first gave this 3 stars but then I thought to myself \"I am being to harsh\" and so I changed my rating to that of 4 stars, and maybe I'm being generous but I liked this a lot, so that's what I made my mind up to. Back on the amazing world of vampires, Richelle Mead created and which I'm grateful for. I'm no beginner to this world. I read VA two years ago and started Bloodlines a few months ago and after liking the first book in the series considerably a lot, I decided to continue the series, and I stand by my decision. Sydney is such a smart character and so different from Rose, the only trait I've noticed these two share, is that of being protective of their friends, and that's one hell of a trait to share. Sydney is the definition of brilliance, she's the Einstein-kind-of smart. While there's not much plot to this book other than some new leads on those mysterious vampire hunters, things get heated up once in a while. We have abductions and revelations and basically we're still at the point where Sydney is being convinced into letting herself embrace the idea of not being such a fanatic, like most of her kind. As to why I gave this book three stars because other than the cliffhanger at the end of the book, where we finally witness some changes in (view spoiler) [Sydney and Adrian's relationship (hide spoiler) ] , nothing else happens but still overalls the book was incredibly good and a nice follow-up to Bloodlines. Here, let me tell you how much I adore Adrian. I didn't always use to like him. He got on my nerves actually because he was not himself around Rose, he just kept wanting to change without really wanting to. With Sydney, he's a different Adrian, and they're not even together. This Adrian, the one he is next to Sydney, I love and support fully. PS: why is Sydney so damn stubborn? PSS: you'll have to read the last scene to find out what she's being stubborn about. ...more ( Actual Rating: 3.5 stars) The honest truth: coming into reading The Golden Lily , I remembered next to nothing of what had transpired in the first book, Bloodlines . I had some vague recollections of things Adrian had said (because, come on, who can forget what Adrian says?), the climax, and the scene where Adrian remarked about Sydney's eyes being like \"molten gold.\" At first, I thought, \"Oh, it's just you; the first book couldn't have been that unmemorable\" -- but, after reading The Golden Lily , ( Actual Rating: 3.5 stars) The honest truth: coming into reading The Golden Lily , I remembered next to nothing of what had transpired in the first book, Bloodlines . I had some vague recollections of things Adrian had said (because, come on, who can forget what Adrian says?), the climax, and the scene where Adrian remarked about Sydney's eyes being like \"molten gold.\" At first, I thought, \"Oh, it's just you; the first book couldn't have been that unmemorable\" -- but, after reading The Golden Lily , I'm not so certain. On the one hand, I understand: in terms of plot arcs, Bloodlines is proving to be a tamer beast than Vampire Academy . Though both series have their instances of romantic drama and tension, the Bloodlines series really does have a more flippant air, what with the setting (California) and focus on \"lighter\" affairs (high school, dating, modeling, etc.). Though I could excuse such things in Bloodlines as a \"start-up book\" to the series, I honestly expected more plot tension, danger, and immediacy in The Golden Lily . To my dismay, I didn't feel that I received any of those things. I once read somewhere that, if a writer doesn't enjoy what he/she is writing, then the reader will fail to enjoy it as well -- and I think that's part of the problem with The Golden Lily . There are sparks of life and enjoyment in certain scenes (such as interactions between Sydney and Adrian), yet then that verve dissipates into a dullness over the course of much of the book. If I were a betting woman, I would place my money on the belief that Mead really didn't enjoy writing most of this novel. It's a wonder she didn't somehow have all the characters thrown out of their Californian setting and shipped off back to Court, to the heart of the intrigues and danger involved with Moroi politics and Strigoi attacks, because -- honestly -- the new setting and \"focus\" really don't seem to be serving the story (or characters) as well as they should. As much as I loved the growth of companionship between Sydney and Adrian within this installment, I will be the first to admit that relationship-building and romantic tension alone do not a good book make. They help, of course (especially if you latch onto good characters and their relationships as I do), but there needs to be a strong plot supporting them. Not all of the Sydney-Adrian scenes in this book were directly related back to the plot or its roots; rather, many of the scenes occurred for the simple function of building a bond between the two. That's not reprehensible, no, but it's disappointing, especially given that a few of the Vampire Academy novels really managed to strike a balance with characterization, relationship-building, and plot. With all that being said, I still enjoyed the Sydney-Adrian moments scattered across the book, but I wish that their presence hadn't been at the expense of suspense, mystery, and danger within the plot. Sadly, another weakness of The Golden Lily is that Sydney proves to be a detached narrator, even more so than I noticed in Bloodlines . As much as I like her as a character (really, she's been a favorite of mine since she first appeared in Blood Promise ), her narrative in this installment lacked vibrance, and -- perhaps most detrimental of all -- she really didn't seem to have much of an interest in the people around her. Even despite some considerable character growth for Sydney between Bloodlines and this installment, the only interactions where she really seems to come to life are with Adrian, and even those could be explained away by the fact that the two are the most obvious \"couple-to-be\" in the series. Everyone else seems throwaway and inconsequential -- a stark contrast to how side-characters were treated in the earlier installments of Vampire Academy . We never get a sense that these characters are continuing to move, breathe, and interact when they're \"off-stage\" (i.e. not within Sydney's sight and thought process). Rather, it sometimes feels that the characters are mechanism-driven puppets that cease functioning if they aren't related to Sydney or the plot at hand -- and that's a shame since Jill, Eddie, Angeline, and Trey really should be more than just tools or props within the story. Another minor issue is that I'm a bit disappointed that this series is branching off into common paranormal intrigues with vampire hunters and witches added into the mix. Even though innovation can be injected into such groups by way of an author's execution, the way Mead tackles them feels tired. If only the vampire hunters and the witches seemed as intriguing to me as the Moroi and the dhampirs did when I first started reading Vampire Academy years ago. As disjointed as my thoughts on this novel seem, I guess they can be all chalked down to this: I'm disillusioned by the Bloodlines series thus far. I want to love these books even as I devour them, but they're rather like not having a full meal: after the fact, I feel hungry for something I didn't receive. No doubt The Golden Lily left me with some moments where I smiled or laughed, but overall my experience was ultimately unsatisfying. Hopefully, the third book, The Indigo Spell , will bring back some more of the storytelling I remember and miss from the Vampire Academy days. ...more I honestly hugged this book when I finished reading it! It was that amazing and heartwarming. The awesomeness that began at the end of Bloodlines starts immediately on the first page of The Golden Lily. Richelle Mead is again the master of memorable scenes and addicting writing in The Golden Lily. I absolutely love how Mead planned a perfect installment to the series. She obviously has a plan for the Bloodline series where Sydney, Adrian, Jill, Eddie and Angeline will grow throughout and stand st I honestly hugged this book when I finished reading it! It was that amazing and heartwarming. The awesomeness that began at the end of Bloodlines starts immediately on the first page of The Golden Lily. Richelle Mead is again the master of memorable scenes and addicting writing in The Golden Lily. I absolutely love how Mead planned a perfect installment to the series. She obviously has a plan for the Bloodline series where Sydney, Adrian, Jill, Eddie and Angeline will grow throughout and stand strong through grievous challenges. I could not imagine a better cast of main characters. They are all alike in how they have strained relationship with their biological family (after all Eddie has no idea on his dad\u2019s identity) and are all struggling to achieve their wish of true love. But different in what causes me to love to be their friend them the most. Sydney: I love to be Sydney\u2019s friend because she is an empathetic observer who is not afraid to stand up for what is right. Like me, she is always constantly thinking and hoping she is doing what is right. Adrian: I would rejoice in being Adrian\u2019s girlfriend not just because he is handsome but for his sense of hilarious humor and how fiercely loyal he is to those he cares about. Jill: Jill because of her maturity, her drive to protect herself despite being the guarded and how she is super funny. I think I laughed the most during Jill\u2019s lines. Eddie: Eddie is so selfless and I adore all he does to protect his friends. He is an amazing, nice guy and an extraordinary fighter. Angeline: Angeline starts the book clueless of normal life but quickly adapts and grows into an intelligent character that learns from her earlier mistakes. In one scene, Angeline asked the sagest question ever. Together, Sydney, Adrian, Jill, Eddie and Angeline combine into the perfect family! I also was completely amazed by the story. I was surprised how much Mead incorporated the struggle Sydney and Adrian have with their respective fathers. I really liked the scene with a certain father. I completely never imagined how alike Sydney and Adrian would become. They both have fathers they strive to impress but fail and have mothers they wish to see again and love. Each scene between them demonstrated to me how they were destined to be a couple. Actually, I believe they are one of my favorite couples ever. Their love is not instant, not clear and not perfect; it is outstanding. They are true star-crossed lovers but also friends who care deeply about the others feelings and safety. I am still reminiscing the conversations between Sydney and Adrian in my mind and rushing home to grab my copy of The Golden Lily to read those scenes again. Now for the vampire hunter sub-plot and major challenge that the marvelous Bloodline main characters overcome brilliantly. I liked how the problem caused a rift between the characters. I felt that the tricky decision many characters made provided more excitement to the story because of questionable actions. The vampire hunters caused Sydney and to question the ideals that her family placed in her mind from a very early age. The story causes Sydney to question: Does it matter what being your friend is or what they do? What choice is most rightous: abide to responsibility or defy discrimination? These questions can also apply to my life because I am also constantly struggling to choose the best decision for my friends, my family and myself. I want to be completely independent, but sometimes I have to acknowledge that someone else might be right. There is no obvious answer in life in how to be responsible as in there is no absolute answer who the true heroes are and the real villains. Mead\u2019s book causing me to speculate about my life decisions again illustrates how powerful The Golden Lily really is. I will always remember the ending of The Golden Lily as outstanding! The ending tore my heart into tiny ribbons of lilies. This is a book I will never become tired of praising. It has my favorite characters, an exciting story and humorous, extraordinary lines. The perfect book to read over and over and over again! I will definitely remember The Golden Lily fondly in the years to come. Go Palm Spring, slushies and surprising families! On June 12, I urge you to rush to your local Barnes and Noble and grabbed a copy of The Golden Lily! Originally posted at Unforgettable Books ! ...more I can't wait to read this. I just read Bloodlines & I'm already looking forward to The Golden Lily. My Assumptions: Sydney gets over her fear of vampires ( atleast the living ones, not the Strigoi ). Adrian moves on from Rose & deepens his relationship with Sydney. Jill gets in a relationship with Mikah ( Mason #2 ) & everyone flips out. Eddie dates Angeline to get over his love for Jill but fails miserable & someone gets killed ( probably Mikah ). Dimitri is talking to Rose over the ph I can't wait to read this. I just read Bloodlines & I'm already looking forward to The Golden Lily. My Assumptions: Sydney gets over her fear of vampires ( atleast the living ones, not the Strigoi ). Adrian moves on from Rose & deepens his relationship with Sydney. Jill gets in a relationship with Mikah ( Mason #2 ) & everyone flips out. Eddie dates Angeline to get over his love for Jill but fails miserable & someone gets killed ( probably Mikah ). Dimitri is talking to Rose over the phone, Adrian over hears & then proceeds to flip the fuck out thus messing things up with Sydney. Adrian & Dimitri get in several heated arguements ( wishing ) Sydney & Adrian kiss. Jill realizes Eddie loves her f that she loves him too. Cliff hanger ending like in Bloodlines when Dimitri walked into Adrians house. LOL, this is going to be interesting. ...more It took me longer to finish this one. Still enjoyable but also again very predictable. So far it's mirroring the Vampire Academy series so I know it's just going to get better as the books go along! Adrian is still so lovable, but Eddie is still one of my favorite characters! What to say, what to say\u2026 Well, I love The Golden Lily . Love it, love it, love it. I had been waiting anxiously for this book for a while, and it did not disappoint me. I won\u2019t lie, these first two Bloodlines books are very predictable, but there\u2019s so much charm and quality that you don\u2019t even care. First, this is cast of very likeable characters. There\u2019s our protagonist, Sydney, whom I love. Sydney is smart, but na\u00efve, and very much awkward. It\u2019s kind of unexpected, considering how cool and compo What to say, what to say\u2026 Well, I love The Golden Lily . Love it, love it, love it. I had been waiting anxiously for this book for a while, and it did not disappoint me. I won\u2019t lie, these first two Bloodlines books are very predictable, but there\u2019s so much charm and quality that you don\u2019t even care. First, this is cast of very likeable characters. There\u2019s our protagonist, Sydney, whom I love. Sydney is smart, but na\u00efve, and very much awkward. It\u2019s kind of unexpected, considering how cool and composed she seems, but under all that is a teenage girl with insecurities like any other. She\u2019s cute and very relatable with her own strengths and weaknesses to go around. You get to see her grow more throughout this book. Adrian\u2026 *sighs dreamily and stares into space*. Adrian has always been my favorite character of the VA series, and all you Dimitri fangirls are going to realize just how awesome he is sooner or later, maybe during this book, maybe later. He is just this sexy piece of complex art. There are so many emotions behind that wit. Love him <3 Jill didn\u2019t annoy me as much as in Bloodlines . She\u2019s maturing. And I\u2019m not even sure if it was really Jill that annoyed me or her love life. Eddie\u2019s awesome as ever. Angeline made a great, fun addition to the group. She is hilarious! Individually, they might not be super interesting, but together this group is totally adorable. What\u2019s awesome is that they really are like a family, even with all those romantic entanglements xD Yeah, this book has its fair share of romance. SYDRIAN fans won\u2019t be disappointed, just hungry for more. This is definitely one of my favorite couples. Richelle Mead, you are genius for putting them together. Opposites in every way possible, they complement each other perfectly . They make each other better people and know the little things about each other. \"But when I\u2019m around you, I want to be better because\u2026 well, because it feels right. Because I want to. You make me want to become something greater than myself. I want to excel. You inspire me in every act, every word, every glance. I look at you, and you\u2019re like\u2026 like light made into flesh.\" \"You are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth.\" \"'The slush. That thing's like 99 percent sugar. You just drank one, Sage.' 'Maybe you drank liquid sugar. Mine was sugar free.' I hoped I sounded convincing.\" \u201cYou're in an awfully good mood,\" he observed. \"Was there a sale at Khakis-R-Us?\u201d Aiden-Brady-Hayden-Brandon was okay, though not all that memorable. Now that he\u2019s out of the way I wonder who will fill his space in the other end of the love triangle. Trey (who I actually really like) has a lot in common with Sydney, and there\u2019s always that Ian guy from The Last Sacrifice . This is assuming there will be a love triangle of course. But this is Richelle Mead, guys. And a Richelle Mead book without a crazy love triangle? I doubts it. Jill\u2019s love life is\u2026 frustrating. After the whole Lee disaster, she found solace in Micah, and Eddie longingly watches all of this. Like I\u2019ve said before, Eddie is the most deserving character in the entire VA / Bloodlines series. In all the seven books he has been in, he has done nothing but help everyone else. I don\u2019t like the idea of him and Jill, but if she makes him happy, whatever. Jill does the mature thing in breaking up with Micah, but right after she\u2019s like \u201coh now that I\u2019ve broken up with him, maybe I can go out with him!\u201d and I\u2019m just yanking my hair out. I love the idea of Eddie and Angeline! I had always seen Mia as a perfect match for him, seeing how they went through the same thing, but Angeline is great too. Their relationship is great. I\u2019d like to see a strong, independent, single Jill anyways. There isn\u2019t much that much action in this book, but that\u2019s only to be expected. We\u2019re with an Alchemist and an Ivashkov. But they\u2019re learning, there are four more books to go, and Sydney will learn to use a gun! This book leaned mostly on romance and character development. And that vampire hunter thing. I loved it all, except for the magic thing. Witches are the last thing I expected in this series, and I can\u2019t say I want to see more of that. Nevertheless, I can\u2019t wait for the next book. The Indigo Spell is what it's called. What the crap is that supposed to mean? Sounds witchy :/ One thing concerning Angeline bothered me, though. The book mentioned her having a \u2018southern drawl\u2019 and the Keepers being from the Appalachians, but wasn\u2019t Angeline from Russia??? Confusion o_O Just kidding. I was wrong :3 Thanks to all the people who corrected me UPDATE 6/11/12 I read the first two chapters last night. Tomorrow's the day :D UPDATE 2/14/12 Whoa, whoa, whoa who's this Brayden dude? What the heck happened to Trey <>_<> 8/27/11 Insanely excited for this book!!!!! The cover isn't very pretty though... except for Jill. The model looks like Dakota Blue Richards, whom I imagined for Jill. Predictions~ \u2022love triangle between Sydney, Adrian and Trey (wouldn't it be awesome if it was Ian?) and possibly Angeline. Oh wait, that'd be a love square. \u2022Jill ends up with Eddie or realizes she has feelings for him after she sees him with Angeline. I like EddiexAngeline much better. \u2022Dimitri will mess all this stuff up, but in the end bring Adrian and Sydney closer than ever before \u2022one of Sydney's sorority girl friends (Kristen and Julia) gets killed \u2022Laurel becomes more important \u2022Tasha kidnaps Jill Things I think would be cool if they happened~ \u2022Tasha coming back at all. Miss that evil lady. \u2022EddiexAngeline. Yeah... \u2022Jill, having mixed feelings for Micah and Eddie, unintentionally hurts both of them and ends up with neither boy. Call me a sadist, but it would be boring if\u00a0everyone got together with everyone\u00a0and they all carried each other off into the sunset. \u2022Ian instead of Trey :) \u2022Avery Lazar breaks out of that mental institution place and does all this crazy stuff! ...more WOW!!!!! This book was beyond all my expectations - and they were pretty high! I have been obsessed with this book for a very long time and to finally get to read it was so satisfying because it was totally worth the wait and i LOVED every word of it :) In The Golden Lily, we get to learn more about the alchemists and the vampire hunters. Although, one of the major twists in this book was predictable for me, i still loved the plot and enjoyed it just as much. This book introduces a lot of new thi WOW!!!!! This book was beyond all my expectations - and they were pretty high! I have been obsessed with this book for a very long time and to finally get to read it was so satisfying because it was totally worth the wait and i LOVED every word of it :) In The Golden Lily, we get to learn more about the alchemists and the vampire hunters. Although, one of the major twists in this book was predictable for me, i still loved the plot and enjoyed it just as much. This book introduces a lot of new things and hints at secrets the alchemists are hiding, like Marcus Finch. I found all of this new info really intriguing because it kind of gives us ideas about whats to come in the rest of the series. Even though there isnt that much action and it focuses more on romance, i thought the pacing was perfect and there was never a dull moment. I really liked Sydney in Bloodlines, but in TGL she grew so much more and i found her clulessness very funny and adorable. She has changed a lot since we first saw her in Blood promise and i think she is turning out to be a wicked and kick ass heroine. She has become one of my favourite protagonists. Eddie was as cute and fiercely protective as ever and Jill was pretty cool in this too - she matured a lot. Angeline is a character that i was initially a bit unsure about, but she totally grew on me and i ended up really liking her. I'm not quite sure if i'm Team Jill or Team Angeline for Eddie yet! Trey was in this book a lot more and i LOVED his scenes with Sydney - particulary, some of the things he said to Sydney about dating made me laugh out loud :D I think Trey is a realy interesting character and i am really curious to see where his loyalties lie in future books. Brayden was a good addition, even though he wasnt my favourite. His scenes with Sydney where quite funny in a totally awkward way and his lack of chemistry with her just reinforced how perfect Adrian is for her. ADRIAN *sigh* he is such a sweetheart and i fell in LOVE with him even more than before (if thats possible) He was so funny and cute and charming and dreamy and just everything that I so love about him. His scenes were to die for and not a single thing came out of his mouth that didnt make me swoon. His relationship with Sydney is just so cute and endearing - they really bring out the best in each other and their chemistry is SIZZLING!!!! They are a perfect balance for each other and SYDRIAN is definitely my OTP! There are so many swoon-worthy moments with the two of them like the dance, self-defense, pool-side outing and so many more. The last scene was so .....words cant describe just how much i absoluteky adored that scene. BUT, it made the wait for Bloodlines 3 so much worse :( Overall, this book was exceptional and 5 stars dont do it justice, cuz it deserves so much more!!! Ofcourse, Richelle Mead is an AWESOME author and all her books are amazing, but for me, this one is something special and has hooked me in a way that no other book has. My fav book of 2012 and totally RECOMMENDED And some teasers ;) ..... \u201cHe finished cleaning my cheek and set the washcloth down. He cupped my face in his hands. \u201dThe only thing true about what you just said was the storybook damsel part - and thats only because you\u2019re pretty enough to be one\u2019 'Nice blouse, Sage,' he told me, deadpan. 'It really brings out the khaki in your pants.' 'Dont worry about it,' Adrian told me. 'If he didnt notice how awesome you were in that dress, he probably wont notice anything now.' He hesitated. ' Not that there's anything to even notice. You're as cute as usual.' ' I feel like I've just crashed someone's date.' Adrian remarked once we were getting on the highway. No one had tailed us out of downtown, making me feel much safer. 'Like i'm intruding on you two. If you want to drop me off somewhere, i'll understand' 'Thanks. And i'll give Brayden a talking to so he doesnt try anything on Thursday' My mind was full if Latin and Shakespeare. 'Try what?' Trey shook his head. 'Honestly, Melbourne, I dont know how you've survived this long in the world without me.' 'Oh,' i said, blushing, 'That.' \u201cHe nodded. \u201cThe other thing that bothered me\u2026well, he said all that in front of you.\u201d That was a shock too. I brushed it off, feeling a little flustered that he would think so much of my opinion. Why should he care? \u201cDon\u2019t worry about me. I\u2019ve been with much more abusive people than him.\u201d \u201cNo, no\u2026I mean\u2026\u201d Adrian looked at me and then quickly averted his eyes. \u2018After what he said about me, I can\u2019t stand the thought that you might think less of me.\u201d I was so surprised that I couldn\u2019t muster a response right away. When I did, I just blurted out the first thing that came to my mind. \u201cOf course I don\u2019t.\u201d He still wouldn\u2019t look at me, apparently not believing my words. \u201cAdrian.\u201d I laid my hard over his and felt a warm spark of connection. He jerked his head towards me in astonishment. \u201cNothing he said could change what I think of you. I\u2019ve had my mind made up about you for a long time\u2026and it\u2019s all good.\u201d I was astonished to see Adrian watching me, a look of contentment on his face. His eyes seemed to study my every feature. Seeing me notice him, he immediately looked away. His usual smirky expression replaced by a dreamy one. \u201cThe mechanic will wait,\u201d he said. \u201cYeah, but I\u2019m supposed to meet Brayden soon, I\u2019ll be-\u201d That\u2019s when I got a good look at Adrian. \u201cWhat have you done? Look at you! You shouldn\u2019t be out here.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s not that bad.\u201d He was lying, and we both knew it. \u201cCome on, we have to get you out of here before you get worse. What were you thinking?\u201d His expression was astonishingly nonchalant for someone who looked like he would pass out. \u201cIt was worth it. You looked\u2026happy.\u201d \u201d ...more 4.5 stars I can finally wear color again! My VA mourning-days are over;) It's true, the first time I read Bloodline , it left a bit of a stake in my heart. It's not that I didn't enjoy it, but I was mourning the fact that Rose and Dimitri's story is truly over, but after re-reading it again to prepare myself for Golden Lily, I'm pleased to say that I properly fell in love with this series like I was meant to from the beginning. You know, I'm not sure what I should say in this review. A big part of m 4.5 stars I can finally wear color again! My VA mourning-days are over;) It's true, the first time I read Bloodline , it left a bit of a stake in my heart. It's not that I didn't enjoy it, but I was mourning the fact that Rose and Dimitri's story is truly over, but after re-reading it again to prepare myself for Golden Lily, I'm pleased to say that I properly fell in love with this series like I was meant to from the beginning. You know, I'm not sure what I should say in this review. A big part of me want to scream and gush about everything that happened, but since this doesn't come out till June, I'm gonna try to keep this spoil-free as much as I can. I really loved this installment. The Golden Lily has a lot of great moments. And I mean great , but it felt more like a filler then anything else. Not that's necessarily a bad thing. This gave us a chance to get to know more about the newer characters since the other obvious characters have already been established. I felt like I finally connected with Sydney and the Alchemist world. Since turning over Keith, Sydney is back in good graces with her organization. There is a lot of honor in her accomplishments that are recognized, but there are also true horrors if one goes against Alchemist code. Like the RE-education. I'm equally fascinated and scared to death to see what that is all about and only hope that Sydney does't ever have to. She's walking a very fine line between duty and friendships. Friendships she shouldn't be wanting much less needing. But I loved the conflict. It looks good on her. As we know, Sydney lacks certain social skills and don't even get me started on the whole dating process. This girl is so clueless, but that's what I loved about her the most. She doesn't expect to be accepted or liked or even desired, but a part of her still wants those things. Wants more then just being a job. She's won my respect and admiration. She's a true friend, selfless, brave and kind. I'm not sure what else I can say about the rest of the gang. I still don't quite have a hold on Jill's character yet, but I'm hoping that will come in future books. I still love Eddie and I think it's pretty amusing how his predicament worked out. Dimitri fans will be pleased to know he's in this book a lot more then expected. Which is awesome. I've gotten attached to Sonya and Trey, I'm still not sure about Angeline though. We meet a new character, Brayden. He's.... swell . And last but never least, Adrian. He's still the best! I swear I lived for his moments. He's still such a punk, sarcastic and funny and completely melt worthy. But we got to see a more vulnerable side to him that made me want to hug him so so hard. I'm not sure what to say about the plot line, since, well it mostly wrapped around Sydney. We do find out a few new Vampire related developments which is really cool and we even see a bit of magic in this one which is an element I've always enjoyed and hope will be even more explored. There is some action, but not much. The ending is what had me aching for more...and that's all I'm gonna say about that cause I don't trust myself right now;) Bottom line, I loved this book. It felt easier going into this one then the first and Mead made it so easy to fall in love with these characters. As always her wring is remarkable. I may have had a shaky start to this series, but I'm a screaming fan girl now! LOVE! NEED MORE! (Special thanks to Alexa for sharing your Arc! Big Hugs!!) ...more Better than Bloodlines, and yet still only as good as the last Vampire Academy book, in my opinion. Sydney: much less annoying than in the previous book, but her issues are so predictably and rather clumsily written that it's hard to get attached to her. Still, she has a couple of decent, non-mousy scenes towards the end. Jill: seriously, just let a hunter have her. Adrian: some redeeming scenes here and there, but not nearly as attractive or as intriguing as he was in VA. It's disappointing that Better than Bloodlines, and yet still only as good as the last Vampire Academy book, in my opinion. Sydney: much less annoying than in the previous book, but her issues are so predictably and rather clumsily written that it's hard to get attached to her. Still, she has a couple of decent, non-mousy scenes towards the end. Jill: seriously, just let a hunter have her. Adrian: some redeeming scenes here and there, but not nearly as attractive or as intriguing as he was in VA. It's disappointing that one of my favorite (formerly) crush-worthy boys has become so sullen and uninteresting. Onto book three next year! Hopefully it's the last one in this series, though. This trilogy already seems to be stretched pretty thinly, even though the books are decently sized. ...more WHY OH WHY?!? I really liked this book until the last page. GRRR!!! There was a REASON why it took me so long to read Bloodlines, and that was because I wasn't sure I wanted to see Adrian written with someone else. But now that Mead has gone and done it, for the love of everything holy, please just quit (view spoiler) [breaking his heart! (hide spoiler) ] Write me in instead. >_< Okay, I'm calm now. On to the book... I'm not sure what it was, but this book had a way of making you feel happy (we WHY OH WHY?!? I really liked this book until the last page. GRRR!!! There was a REASON why it took me so long to read Bloodlines, and that was because I wasn't sure I wanted to see Adrian written with someone else. But now that Mead has gone and done it, for the love of everything holy, please just quit (view spoiler) [breaking his heart! (hide spoiler) ] Write me in instead. >_< Okay, I'm calm now. On to the book... I'm not sure what it was, but this book had a way of making you feel happy (well, for the most part) while you're reading it. I wouldn't say this book was as good as Vampire Academy series, but it doesn't fall too far behind. I LOVED the VA series (except when Rose was being whiny), and Bloodlines fell just a bit short for me because I felt it kind of dragged and lacked in depth as it tried to bridge the gap between what we knew from VA and what we learn in the spin off. It wasn't until much later in the second half of the book became more enjoyable. Naturally, I was hoping for the VA calibre in this book, and Mead sure did not disappoint. The Golden Lily wasn't just your typical story about a special girl going to a boarding school and overcoming the challenges facing her. Mead has developed a pretty intricate web of Moroi, dhampirs, Strigoi, Alchemists, Warriors of Light and possibly magic beyond those we have learned about. For the sake of not spoiling the book, the story meticulously unfolded in a way that even though it wasn't totally action packed, it keeps the reader intrigued from beginning to end. But the thing that was so great about this book was character development. A friend is on a mission to convince me that Sydney was an AWESOME character, and I admit, she was a great heroine because she wasn't your typical badass. She was wholesome - sometimes to the point of awkwardness - but there was an innocence and sincerity about her duty as well as her compassion that make you can't help but love her. Having said that, I'm still very PISSED about the end. Now the character all the girls are waiting to hear about. Adrian. I just don't know what to say except DAYMN he is SO swoon-worthy in this book. From the depression over Rose (oh, please let me help you get over her) and unresolved father issues (I could never think any less of you) to his growing fondness for a certain character (awww, you had SO many sweet scenes I couldn't stop gushing from overwhelming giddiness). He was just TOO adorable for words. The supporting characters were also great. Mead still managed to throw in how wonderful Dimitri was and how wise Sonya was. Jill was her sweet innocent self, while Micah did what he could go take care of her. There were hints of other possible romances and triangles with characters like Eddie and Angeline, especially with so many that are forbidden. And of course there's Brayden, who I thought was just the sweetest, shy, nice guy. This book was just really well rounded, and there wasn't much not to like. It's not to say it wasn't flawless because there were parts in the book that Sydney would briefly tell about a past incident, and I wasn't sure if I had read it before or if she was just mentioning something new but not elaborating. And I am curious to know more about this earth magic and the Alchemist blood. Just more things to look forward to in the next book, I suppose. In the meantime, I'll just have to continue swooning over Adrian. :)[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Buddy read with sis Pearl --> click to check her fabulous review :) After 2 years, I have finally continued the Bloodlines series. I purposely put this off for a while and wait for the books to be released (now they are all out. i'm gonna binge read the series. I'm just not a fan of cliffhangers). It's a bit tough getting into the story and I'm glad Richelle Mead wrote snippets to refresh my mind on the events happened from the previous book. Golden Lily is a fantastic sequel . The twists are be Buddy read with sis Pearl --> click to check her fabulous review :) After 2 years, I have finally continued the Bloodlines series. I purposely put this off for a while and wait for the books to be released (now they are all out. i'm gonna binge read the series. I'm just not a fan of cliffhangers). It's a bit tough getting into the story and I'm glad Richelle Mead wrote snippets to refresh my mind on the events happened from the previous book. Golden Lily is a fantastic sequel . The twists are better and it puts me on the edge of my seat. I'm enjoying this more than the Vampire Academy series because it's more complex, has darker theme and filled with wonderful characters . The story starts on what's left on the previous book as Sydney continues to protect the remaining family member (aside from Vasilissa Dragomir - who is now a Queen) of the Dragomir clan, Jill Mastrano Dragomir along with the dhampirs, Eddie & Angeline. Oh, let's not forget the hot vampire, Adrian Ivashkov who is still healing from a heartbreak from Rose Hathaway (grr). As her duty goes on, Sydney's relationship with the gang develops an attachment towards them. It's like she found a family who supports her regardless of what they are but as an Alchemist, she shouldn't be. The mere idea conflicts her whether she should trust her Alchemy beliefs or choose what she wants to believe in. There are so many things happened in this book. More secrets in the Alchemy world, a new group threatening the vampires, an experiment to prevent Strigoi conversion and Sydney exploring relationship . I just enjoy every single one of them. Sydney Sage is an intelligent, genuine, selfless, caring, loyal and amazing heroine. Her character exhibits such a great character development throughout the story. She may not be as badass as Rose Hathaway but she's an incredibly likable character. I love how she believes in one person's abilities and talents when no one else does. She appreciates someone's effort and continually motivates a person to excel. That's what she did to Adrian Ivashkov . I just love this guy more than anything. He's protective, adorable, swoon-worthy, loving,and has a great sense of humor. I cannot take this anymore and let's get to the point: SYDRIAN. I SHIP SYDRIAN FOREVER. I ship these two when they were in Vampire Academy. It's obvious there is an attraction between them but it's still underdeveloped. Their relationship progressed really slow just enough as they get to know each other. I FEEL SO GIDDY. IT GIVES ME BUTTERFLIES. THANK GOODNESS THIS SPIN-OFF SERIES EXISTS! THAT ENDING? OMFG. MY FEELS. HEART EYES. I seriously want to swat Sydney on that part. I just can't imagine if I've read this ages ago and I WILL WAIT FOR THE SEQUEL? I'll go damn ballistic. ...more Oh sweet deliverance. Be still my beating heart and all that stuff. \u201cAdrian stood there leaning against the doorframe, watching me with his heart in his eyes. In my chest, my own heart was breaking. On my cheek, the lily reminded me who I was. \u201d I have to admit that at first I thought that this spin-off series would be somewhat found lacking compared to Vampire Academy . *hangs head in shame* The truth is that, what keeps it from being awesome is the lack of a major, hardcore archenemy. Strigoi a Oh sweet deliverance. Be still my beating heart and all that stuff. \u201cAdrian stood there leaning against the doorframe, watching me with his heart in his eyes. In my chest, my own heart was breaking. On my cheek, the lily reminded me who I was. \u201d I have to admit that at first I thought that this spin-off series would be somewhat found lacking compared to Vampire Academy . *hangs head in shame* The truth is that, what keeps it from being awesome is the lack of a major, hardcore archenemy. Strigoi are there somewhere in the background, but they're not the main focus. On the other hand, the Warriors of Light make a slight attempt to fill the incredibly empty shoes that Strigoi-Dimitri left behind. They don't hold a candle to him. But then. Adrian and Sydney. Torn. That's what you are. You will desperately want to bitchslap Sydney. She's a great heroine, don't misunderstand me. Composed,rational,takes care of everything. BUT.SHE'S.SO.DAMN.CLUELESS. It's like she's begging you to rattle her head to see if she's emitting any clanking noises. \u201cFor once, you're going to hear something that doesn't fit into your neat, compartmentalized world of order and logic and reason.\u201d And she wakes up in the final 3 pages. THE.FINAL.THREE.PAGES. As for Adrian. He's the perfect, crazy, intoxicated, chain-smoking, mentally-slightly-shaken-by-spirit-magic, actually-changing-for-cross-species-forbidden-love kind of guy. \u201cYou looked happy...\u201d So, Book 3. ...more With The Golden Lily, Richelle Mead once again proved that the world she created for Rose and now Sydney is magical and alluring and that, due to that fact, she can get away with a lot. First half of The Golden Lily is essentially plotless. The reader gets to spend time with all the familiar characters, and it\u2019s reminiscent of spending an uneventful Sunday afternoon with your friends: everyone is relaxed and happy they\u2019re there, and the entire thing is absolutely tension-free. The second half sh With The Golden Lily, Richelle Mead once again proved that the world she created for Rose and now Sydney is magical and alluring and that, due to that fact, she can get away with a lot. First half of The Golden Lily is essentially plotless. The reader gets to spend time with all the familiar characters, and it\u2019s reminiscent of spending an uneventful Sunday afternoon with your friends: everyone is relaxed and happy they\u2019re there, and the entire thing is absolutely tension-free. The second half showed signs of an actual plot \u2013 certainly an improvement over the first, or the almost plotless Bloodlines. There is a group of vampire hunters determined to kill Sonya Karp because they think she\u2019s still a Strigoi. With Adrian\u2019s help, Sydney uncovers a shared history between these Hunters and the Alchemists, and slowly she starts to realize how far she\u2019s drifted away from the Alchemists\u2019 views. Once again, I found Sydney to be vexing and difficult to relate to. I understand her social ineptitude better than you might think, but there were times when simple logic would have allowed her to see things that she just failed to notice. It is hard to accept that a character that is, above all, described as insanely intelligent, can be so infuriatingly dense at times. There was a noticeable improvement over Bloodlines and I certainly liked her more this time, but making her seem stupid in order to further complicate the plot (or hide the fact that there is none) isn\u2019t the way to go. Unlike Sydney, Adrian showed radical improvement. Fear not, ladies, he is still the same old rambling alcoholic who uses too much hair products, but the hero in him is starting to shine through and it is a beautiful sight indeed. Love triangles remain Richelle Mead\u2019s trademark. Her ability to neglect plot, pacing and character development and focus solely on complicated relationships is quite scary. This time we have the ever-present Adrian-Dimitri-Rose (although, to be fair, it\u2019s starting to fade), replaced by Adrian-Sydney-Brayden. Continuing from Bloodlines we have Eddie-Jill-Micah, and then, of course, to make matters even worse, Jill-Eddie-Angeline. Although I smell yet another love triangle coming in The Indigo Spell (poor Adrian just can\u2019t catch a break), I know I won\u2019t be able to resist immersing myself into this world once again. Besides, I already preordered because I\u2019m slightly OC and I need to complete the series on my shelf. As Lisa would say, being obsessive-compulsive is expensive. ;) Also posted at The Nocturnal Library ...more Wow. Look at that cover! I'm guessing it's Jill on the left and Sydney on the right. It's . . . not what I expected. I was thinking it was going to follow VA's color scheme. I'm glad it's not, though, because, I mean, who wants a clone? Edit 8.31.11 Okay. First, it was March 1, 2012. Then, it was May 7th, 2012. Now it's June 17, 2012. Is anyone else as frustrated with these pushbacks as I am? I get it, I get it, yadda-yadda, Mead had a baby and she needs time with it. But now that he is actually bi Wow. Look at that cover! I'm guessing it's Jill on the left and Sydney on the right. It's . . . not what I expected. I was thinking it was going to follow VA's color scheme. I'm glad it's not, though, because, I mean, who wants a clone? Edit 8.31.11 Okay. First, it was March 1, 2012. Then, it was May 7th, 2012. Now it's June 17, 2012. Is anyone else as frustrated with these pushbacks as I am? I get it, I get it, yadda-yadda, Mead had a baby and she needs time with it. But now that he is actually birthed and she's already finished it, does she really need 10 months to edit? ...more I think I enjoyed this better than the first one!! But Sydney, WHY ARE YOU SO STUBBORN?! More thoughts tomorrow! I seem to always finish any book by Richelle Mead at 1 in the morning. I CAN NEVER PUT THEM DOWN. I loved the first book in this series but this second book is my favorite so far. Adrian is hilarious and also adorable, while Sydney is completely oblivious to everything. I'm glad that Brayden did what he did by the end of the book because he was super BORING. I'm pretty sure everyone ca I think I enjoyed this better than the first one!! But Sydney, WHY ARE YOU SO STUBBORN?! More thoughts tomorrow! I seem to always finish any book by Richelle Mead at 1 in the morning. I CAN NEVER PUT THEM DOWN. I loved the first book in this series but this second book is my favorite so far. Adrian is hilarious and also adorable, while Sydney is completely oblivious to everything. I'm glad that Brayden did what he did by the end of the book because he was super BORING. I'm pretty sure everyone can agree with me on that. I was super upset with what we find out about Trey. He and Sydney are way more similar than we thought. However, I hope that as Sydney continues to grow and change her opinions, Trey does this as well. It's hard watching characters like Sydney and Trey because they have been brainwashed their whole lives to believe something and because of that change for them is very slow and gradual. But I have a feeling we are going to see more and more growth in the next book and so on. SYDNEY NEEDS TO LET LOOSE A LITTLE. I kind of want to see her go a little crazy.... I really don't want to give too much away to those who haven't read the first book but all I'll say is this series is great and it truly just gets better and better. ...more Adrian strikes again. Well, with his dry humor and whiplash attitude! Aside from that, it was bit of drag - to be frank it was bit of disappointment up until 80%. Nothing really happens and I felt bit bored. By the time action started, I was like 'okay I see your point' but wasn't enough for me. *sigh* But throughout, there are few moments of entertainment. I specially enjoyed when (view spoiler) [Bryden broke up with Sydney. Her reaction was priceless and I found myself laughing along with her. (h Adrian strikes again. Well, with his dry humor and whiplash attitude! Aside from that, it was bit of drag - to be frank it was bit of disappointment up until 80%. Nothing really happens and I felt bit bored. By the time action started, I was like 'okay I see your point' but wasn't enough for me. *sigh* But throughout, there are few moments of entertainment. I specially enjoyed when (view spoiler) [Bryden broke up with Sydney. Her reaction was priceless and I found myself laughing along with her. (hide spoiler) ] I already started with 'The Indigo Spell' so hope I might see more action than this one. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more WHAT WAS THAT ENDING???? I couldn't stop reading no matter how hard I tried! This book just got me hooked right from the beginning. This had way more action than Bloodlines and romance too! SYDNEY AND ADRIAN ARE LIFE. OTP. MY SHIP. WHATEVER. If you have NOT yet read Bloodlines, GO PICK IT UP. This series just seems to get better and better! Okay. Then some spoilers, thinking and opinions. 5 4 3 2 1 Nice. Okay, let's get things straight. (view spoiler) [ WHAT THE HECK?? THEY KISSED AND SHE LEFT AND THE B WHAT WAS THAT ENDING???? I couldn't stop reading no matter how hard I tried! This book just got me hooked right from the beginning. This had way more action than Bloodlines and romance too! SYDNEY AND ADRIAN ARE LIFE. OTP. MY SHIP. WHATEVER. If you have NOT yet read Bloodlines, GO PICK IT UP. This series just seems to get better and better! Okay. Then some spoilers, thinking and opinions. 5 4 3 2 1 Nice. Okay, let's get things straight. (view spoiler) [ WHAT THE HECK?? THEY KISSED AND SHE LEFT AND THE BOOK ENDED THERE?? NO. NOPENOPENOPE. Adrian was always looking out for Sydney and I really, really loved that. It was so cute of him to ask her to teach him how to drive just so that he could spend a little time with her. And he quit smoking for her? That's a completely new Adrian for me. And the way Jill always looked at Sydney and always said a few compliments? I just knew something was up. THERE WAS SO MUCH SEXUAL TENSION IN THIS BOOK AND I CAN'T HANDLE IT. And when Eddie told Sydney that he can't train with Jill because of all the touching? WELL WELL WELL. I see a parallel there! I still like the thought of Eddie and Jill together and I really hope it'll happen! (hide spoiler) ] Then the other characters; Trey, Marcus, Brayden, Dimitri, and Angeline. (view spoiler) [ I kind of saw that coming with Trey. The tattoo and all the bruises were obvious clues (even though for a moment I thought he was a dhampir, ooops). These \"Warriors\" were a whole new group who were a bit creepy with their ancient methods. I think Trey'll be around in the next book? At least I would somehow like it. This Marcus guy will definitely be a new mystery to solve. I want to know more about him. Isn't he like in the cover of The Indigo Spell? It was so amazing to see Dimitri again! He's still the same badass like always which was good. Gosh I love him. Brayden... Naaaaah, he was cute I guess, but I just hated every scene because I will forever ship Adrian/Sydney. And last but not least, Angeline. I actually liked Angeline better when she was this reckless and uncivilized girl in the beginning of this book. She really made me hold my laugh for a few times. I think she's cool and has a lot of potential. (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [ Sydney doing magic is still kind of new and weird and I think it'll be a problem in some book, though it was amazing whenever she used it. (hide spoiler) ] The Golden Lily has again showed me why Richelle Mead is one of my favorite authors. All those plot twists and events that happened... Just, WOW. Even though I had always a pretty good idea of what would happen in the future, I was still surprised when they did actually happen. 10 points for amazing writing. The ONLY thing I hate about this series are those book covers. Those characters look so different than described! WHY would you do that to me? This book made me laugh SO. MANY. TIMES. I would recommend this series to everyone, no matter if you like or dislike vampires. Believe me. This is just pure gold. 5 stars. ...more \u03a0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03bb\u03ac\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1.\u03a4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae.\u039f \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03af\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b9\u03b4\u03ad\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03af \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2,\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b9\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ae\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03a0\u03b1\u03bb\u03bc \u03a3\u03c0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b3\u03ba\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03af\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf.\u0394\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1\u03b4\u03ae 230 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1\u03c2.\u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ac,\u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03a3\u03af\u03b4\u03bd\u03b5\u03ca \u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c7\u03bb\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b9\u03ac,\u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03cd\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce \u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9,\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03a1\u03cc\u03bf\u03c5\u03b6 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03ac\u03c7\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ac\u03ba\u03b1.\u0398\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5 \u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03c3\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03a0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03bb\u03ac\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1.\u03a4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae.\u039f \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03af\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b9\u03b4\u03ad\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03af \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2,\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b9\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ae\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03a0\u03b1\u03bb\u03bc \u03a3\u03c0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b3\u03ba\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03af\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf.\u0394\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1\u03b4\u03ae 230 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1\u03c2.\u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ac,\u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03a3\u03af\u03b4\u03bd\u03b5\u03ca \u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c7\u03bb\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b9\u03ac,\u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03cd\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce \u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9,\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03a1\u03cc\u03bf\u03c5\u03b6 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03ac\u03c7\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ac\u03ba\u03b1.\u0398\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5 \u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03c3\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b1. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b5 \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf vampire academy \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1 \u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2.\u038a\u03c3\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bb\u03ad\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03c7\u03c9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac,\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03bf\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b3\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1.\u03a0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c6\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bc\u03b1\u03b8\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03bf \u03b5\u03ba\u03b4\u03bf\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 \u03bf\u03af\u03ba\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03be\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9.\u03a0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c9\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03b1...\u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03be\u03ad\u03c1\u03c9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac \u03b1\u03b3\u03b3\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1(\u03b1\u03bd \u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1)\u03c7\u03b1\u03af\u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b5.\u03a4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039d\u03c4\u03b9\u03bc\u03af\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9 . ...more Prior to finishing this book Adrian, baby, please don't disappoint me in this one too. Please? After finishing the book Oh my god. Oh. My. God. OH MY GOD!! Initial Reaction after reading *This reaction was solely due to that bitch Sydney. Don't let that fool you in believing that I didn't like The Golden Lily.* Ok, so let's get this shit on the road. What can I say? The book blew me away. Blew. Me. Away. I can't hep but fall in love with Ms Mead. Hats off to you lady. After been started off with the dis Prior to finishing this book Adrian, baby, please don't disappoint me in this one too. Please? After finishing the book Oh my god. Oh. My. God. OH MY GOD!! Initial Reaction after reading *This reaction was solely due to that bitch Sydney. Don't let that fool you in believing that I didn't like The Golden Lily.* Ok, so let's get this shit on the road. What can I say? The book blew me away. Blew. Me. Away. I can't hep but fall in love with Ms Mead. Hats off to you lady. After been started off with the disappointment that was Bloodlines, the book picked up pretty fast. Amazingly fast and well. All the complaints that I had with Bloodlines, all of them, were so meticulously eliminated in this one that I can't help but gush about the book. High Points Sydney. Adrian. Eddie. Unrequited love. Runaway models. Mustang. Self defense classes. Low-on-carb diets. Honesty. Love. Friendship. Textile museums. Aura. Lia Distafano. Red dresses. Brayden/Hayden/Brandon or any other names they come up with. Ms Terwilliger. Khaki-R-Us. The last 5 fucking pages. Adrian. Adrian. Adrian. Ok, I've got to stop or I'll end up copying the whole book. Low points Sydney's inept social skills(more on this later).The last 5 fucking pages. So the book started right where Bloodlines left off. With Lee killed and Keith out of the way, Sydney's life becomes easier, marginally. Dimitri Belikov and Sonya Karp arrive to experiment on difference between Belikov's and Adrian's spirit and blablabla. You can read all that shit by yourself, I'll tell you what's awesome about this book. Firstly, the humour and romance that were completely ignored in Bloodlines are abundantly present here. I even enjoyed Sydney's monologue that I found so drab in the previous installment. Her characterization had improved so much from the boring-responsible-dutiful Sydney to still-responsible-dutiful-but-now-interesting Sydney. She was awfully smart and really spouted some wise and inspiring stuff. There are no victims here. We all have the power to choose what we want. The part, the only part, that bugged me she was very selfless and understanding. Emphasis on very. Too much. Unrealistic. The second part, ok scratch only , for such a brilliant girl, she is just plain dumb naive about guys. No one is that oblivious. *This happens after Sydney and Brayden's second date when he gets her flowers* \u201cBrayden got me flowers,\u201d I declared. \u201cAnd?\u201d \u201cAnd, why\u2019d he do it?\u201d \u201cBecause he likes you, Melbourne. That\u2019s what guys do. They buy dinner and gifts, hoping that in return you\u2019ll\u2014um, like them back.\u201d The girl is really asking why her boyfriend, who was completely jazzed by her knowledge, brought her flowers? Huh. And then, even if I can understand accept her dearth of social skills, she is pretty sharp in picking up Eddie's and Angeline's feelings. What is that about? So, accept the few 2 above points, I loved it! Adrian Yes, he deserves his own paragraph. I'd just like to quotes Augustus Waters here- He was everything he lacked in Bloodlines. No more moping, no more idiotic quips, no more yearning for Rose. He was perfect. The book had more of his protectiveness, witty quips, love, snarkiness and everything that altogether makes Adrian, Adrian Ivashkov! Conclusion All those disappointed by Bloodlines, hang on guys, the shit gets better. Spoilers ahead. And I mean major ones, that'll probably ruin the book for ya and you'll end up cursing me. Don't read if you haven't completed the book. Ok, so I was trying so hard, so fucking hard, to not to write this, but I can't resist. THAT ENDING. Really? You had to do that? Are we on some lets-make-Adrian-suffer bandwagon? I mean, Jeez, why can't he fall for someone whose first instinct is to NOT to throw his love right back at his face? Do we really need to be that cruel? Please, please give him a break. He. Fucking. Deserves. It. Stop it. Seriously stop. And since, I'm a sucker for cheesy lines, I had to post this: You make me want to become something greater than myself. I want to excel. You inspire me in every act, every word, every glance. I look at you, and you\u2019re like\u2026 like light made into flesh. I said it on Halloween and meant every word: you are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth. And you don\u2019t even know it. You have no clue how beautiful you are or how brightly you shine. Thanks to Basuhi, Liz, Aimen, Sacrlet and Jerry! Guys, you were right. So right. Thanks for making me read this. You are awesome! ...more", "Title": "The Golden Lily"},
