{"Comments": "<+++>Percy Jackson and the Olympians Boxed Set</+++>It's a series for children,<---M> I know</---M>, but don't we all need to reconnect with our inner-child sometimes? And this is perfect for pleasure reading. At least if you can find humor in ancient Greek mythology in connection with American younger readers' pop-culture. And now that I'm done with the first three I cannot wait to get my hands on the others.<---F> Beats the pants off Harry Potter</---F>. Wonderful YA literature, and one of the few YA works that doesn't draw a thick black line between boys and girls (while, at the same time, it paints a light, subtle and entirely realistic picture of a normal boy's dawning awareness that girls exist). You can tell Riordan knows his Greek myths inside and out, loves them, and gets it. My only quibble is the way he casts the epic battle(s) in terms of Good vs. Evil: a very Judeo-Christian view, and one that is antit Beats the pants off Harry Potter. Wonderful YA literature, and one of the few YA works that doesn't draw a thick black line between boys and girls (while, at the same time, it paints a light, subtle and entirely realistic picture of a normal boy's dawning awareness that girls exist). You can tell Riordan knows his Greek myths inside and out, loves them, and gets it. My only quibble is the way he casts the epic battle(s) in terms of Good vs. Evil: a very Judeo-Christian view, and one that is antithetical to the spirit of the Greek myths, where the Gods just jerk mortals and each other around on a level playing field. ...more I loved it. I finished the first book, The Lightning Theif, in a day. It's awesome. I kept thinking how good it would be to read this to any kid, especially those with struggles like ADHD and dyslexia. The struggles these kids have turn out to be a blessing. Instead of not seeing correctly, it's that they see overly well. They're given superpowers and are more than mortals. It's a really fun read based on Greek mythology in modern times. Me gustan mucho estos libros porque antes de leerlo ten\u00eda una vaga idea de los helenos o griegos y sus dioses. Luego de leerme esta saga completa me sab\u00eda de memorizado todos los nombres, lo que me encanta. Te entretienes tanto con la historia y te metes tanto con las personalidades (de los personajes y de los dioses) que terminas memoriz\u00e1ndolos sin darte cuenta. Esa es una de mis cosas favoritas de estos libros. S\u00ed, el libro da unas vueltas que no me esperaba pero cuando est\u00e1n a punto de morir, Me gustan mucho estos libros porque antes de leerlo ten\u00eda una vaga idea de los helenos o griegos y sus dioses. Luego de leerme esta saga completa me sab\u00eda de memorizado todos los nombres, lo que me encanta. Te entretienes tanto con la historia y te metes tanto con las personalidades (de los personajes y de los dioses) que terminas memoriz\u00e1ndolos sin darte cuenta. Esa es una de mis cosas favoritas de estos libros. S\u00ed, el libro da unas vueltas que no me esperaba pero cuando est\u00e1n a punto de morir, tus personajes favoritos nunca se mueren. Osea por una parte eso est\u00e1 bien, porque o si no te decepcionar\u00edas mucho, pero en mi parecer necesita m\u00e1s drama. Tampoco quiero parecer sanguinaria o depresiva, pero me gustan los finales tr\u00e1gicos o tristes. Tengo muchas ganas de leer la siguiente saga. <---A>Rick Riordan</---A> es un genio. ...more This series was one of the most fun in fantasy fiction, for me! It is real, to the point, very tongue and cheek and almost always full of surprises. For instance when Percy steps out of the 'elevator' that takes his trio to Olympia, he steps out and 'nearly has a heartattack!' It has fantasy mixed with very real human emotions. None of the thinking about mankind and the greater good conflict, this guy wants to know which bully will beat him up in his next school and who his mum will date next. I This series was one of the most fun in fantasy fiction, for me! It is real, to the point, very tongue and cheek and almost always full of surprises. For instance when Percy steps out of the 'elevator' that takes his trio to Olympia, he steps out and 'nearly has a heartattack!' It has fantasy mixed with very real human emotions. None of the thinking about mankind and the greater good conflict, this guy wants to know which bully will beat him up in his next school and who his mum will date next. I couldn't put the books down till I had finished them and re-read the funny bits again! ...more This is a cute series for children. I didn't read into it at all (there were probably large plot holes looming that I just purposefully ignored), because I wanted a brainless, fun read. Percy Jackson definitely delivered. Completely addictive even if meant for middles school aged readers. Loved how Greek mythology came to life! i liked this book because i like action and adventure book. it was a good book for me because i like it LOVED this series so freakin much!! Gotta read book 4, soon :D I miss Olympian Gods.. Percy and Annabeth <3 <3 <3 Got me into reading when I was younger and never fails to make me fall in love again when I re-read! that it is scary ok i didnt mean to click on that but yah ive read the whole series and i loved them! I think it is a so so book because it doesn't have alot of action and not alot of fighting helped me with my greek mythology Extremely exciting,thrilling and a must-read for those who LOVE greek mythology. Please read my last comment Never a dull moment in the series. All of the books were a delight. i read all of them they were so great i wanted more of them. these are brilliant! The most AWESOME book!!! It is undoubtedly a book that must have a place in everyone's library. The best compilation of Greek myths in modernization, is what I shall say. It familiarized me to Greek mythology which is both bizarre and intriguing. This story is spellbinding and full of action. (A great piece for action-lovers). The story is apace and not at all dismal. I thoroughly loved it and strongly recommend it to all readers. Ananya Goel VIII-C Mind Tree Schoo The two stars are mainly because of my history with this book, plus the fact that he wrote it for his son. I used to love these books, they were very favorite books when I read them and Riordan was, as far as I was concerned, a genius. Then I read some other things, and I got interested in some other books that became my favorites instead of these, but I still remembered these books as really, really great. Then, a couple of weeks ago, I reread the series. I had been reading about them online and The two stars are mainly because of my history with this book, plus the fact that he wrote it for his son. I used to love these books, they were very favorite books when I read them and Riordan was, as far as I was concerned, a genius. Then I read some other things, and I got interested in some other books that became my favorites instead of these, but I still remembered these books as really, really great. Then, a couple of weeks ago, I reread the series. I had been reading about them online and hearing about them, mostly some negative things, and I was wondering if I had been wrong the first time I read them. Well, it turns out I was, at least in my opinion. First, the writing is junk. I am not saying the plot or the characters (yet), I am saying the writing. I recognized what I saw here, and I can recognize this in all of his kids books. This was a guy who didn't know how to write, and knew this about himself, but was clever, and put just enough more-or-less witty remarks and corny jokes in to distract the readers from the fact that he can't write. I recognize his inability to write in his adult books, too. Even though he has written many, many books by this point, both before and after Percy Jackson, he can't exactly write a book. The next thing which irritated me were the jokes on their own. Just bad. It was funny at times, I admit that. And in the first couple of chapters it's fine. But by the time you are third of the way into the first book and have been hearing these not-so-witty, not-so-funny \"jokes\" then I kind of just wanted to throw the book out of the window. When a series has a couple of remarks like this scattered about, and used at important times, then it's funny, or at least one can stand it. But just the jokes every five seconds were making me claw my own eyes out. Maybe I am being unreasonable about this one, but I found his portrayal of the Greek Gods and Goddesses to the very, very disrespectful. Particularly Dionysus got on my nerves. He was a God that, like all of the others, was worshipped by people for many years as a big part of their lives, and in Percy Jackson he is depicted as a loser he gets drunk on soda! Riordan does similar things with other Gods and Goddesses. I wouldn't mind them being in the series if he was just a bit more respectful. I also was bothered by the main character's dyslexia. Obviously, I was not bothered that the main character has dyslexia, what bothered me was how Riordan made having dyslexia be like. At one point, Percy (main character) sees a sign that says \"Private Event\" as \"Pirate Event\" I have researched dyslexia a lot (for personal reasons, long before I read Percy Jackson for the first time) and no one with dyslexia would have seen \"Private\" as \"Pirate\". In the fifth book, Percy sees \"Gods\" as \"Dogs\" not only is this one highly unlikely (if even possible), it also contrasts what he wrote in the first book. (For example, wouldn't he more likely see \"gods\" as \"os\", since he couldn't see the R or the V in \"Private\"?) . I feel like he could have made the dyslexia more realistic--it is not something to laugh about, it's a real obstacle in the lives of people who have it. This annoyed me the first time I read this book, too, but I got past it. This book series also totally copied Harry Potter, but without a lot of the things that made Harry Potter a work of art. Lots of books now have slightly copied minor things from that series, but never a complete copy, and never as bad as Riordan. For example, the main character has messy black hair and green eyes, and has never had many friends (Harry/Percy) and is raised by at least one abusive member of their family (The Dursleys'/ Percy's stepfather). Next, he finds out he is has magic and gets a special weapon (Harry's wand/Riptide) and he goes to school to learn about his magic (Hogwarts/Camp-half-blood) he meets a very wise teacher who he likes (Dumbledore/Chiron) and one teacher that he doesn't like (Snape/Dionysus. Though Snape was a much better and more complex character then Dionysus was in Percy Jackson). The main character's two best friends are boy who is very loyal, but not that smart (Ron/Grover) and girl who is brilliant but can be a little bit of a know-it-all sometimes (Hermione/Annabeth). There is a boy with longish blonde hair who is cruel to the main character (Malfoy/Luke), and a set of mischievous brothers (Fred and George/Travis and Connor) and set of twins where one dies (Fred and George/Caster and Pollux). The villain's name is not supposed to be said (Voldemort/Kronos), and at some point the main character is known for surviving something no one has before (Harry survived the killing curse/Percy reached sixteen), there is a character who is not in the series very much, but is very kind and nice to the main character, but he dies (Cedric/Beckendorf) and this character was also dating a girl who was nice enough but cried a lot (Cho Chang/Silena Beauregard). I could go on. It appears that Ridordan had a pretty good idea for a book series, but couldn't think of a plot so he found one that had already been used and was popular, but changed it slightly. In short, I can't think of Percy Jackson as anything more then a cheap, Harry Potter rip-off. ...more I just reread the first 3, and idk why Goodreads won't count rereads, but I wanted it to count a little bit, so I found this edition :) There is something truly magical about these first five books in Riordan's world. The next five books (starting with The Lost Hero ) are just poor imitations, lacking the characterization so prevalent in the first five. Riordan spends much more time on the first five, more time on describing the characters' emotions and thoughts. And there is a BIG reason for this major flaw. The first five are in THE FIRST PERSON. Percy Jackson is a good hero. You see his own take on the mythological background of There is something truly magical about these first five books in Riordan's world. The next five books (starting with The Lost Hero ) are just poor imitations, lacking the characterization so prevalent in the first five. Riordan spends much more time on the first five, more time on describing the characters' emotions and thoughts. And there is a BIG reason for this major flaw. The first five are in THE FIRST PERSON. Percy Jackson is a good hero. You see his own take on the mythological background of his world. You feel his emotions as he fights, loves, hates, wonders.* You experience his mind, his character. The next five are in THIRD PERSON, and change between versions. It does offer a larger view of the events going on, as the characters separate and fight different battles, but it falls way short of the many-person point of view done in A Song of Ice and Fire, the Wheel of Time, etc. With third person, it's harder to hear the voice of that particular character. Perhaps Riordan should have done first person and change perspectives. Another thing. In the first five, when they meet gods, the gods are shown as a lot more powerful than they are in the next five. Example: when Percy meets Ares at the restaurant, he describes his eyes as flames behind sunglasses and feels a hot wind brush his hair. I mean, the gods are definitely more tangible in the first five books, more real. The next five, alas, get bored of so many different superhuman beings and just clumps them in one after another. Third. The demigods in the next five are just too powerful. In the first five, Percy is a son of Poseidon, and gets more powerful as the books progress. Readers always love progress. Annabeth is smart and resourceful, but can't do much in the way of superhuman abilities. Grover is a satyr. But in the first five, Riordan uses the traditional three-character ploy, which works very well. You have the main guy, that cute Percy with his Anaklusmos pen sword. You have Annabeth, the brainy friend who happens to be a girl and eventually by the mere exposure effect gets the guy. You have Grover, the sidekick sort of fellow. We see a similar ploy in Harry Potter, with Harry, Hermione, and Ron. The one difference there is that RON goes with Hermione. Yes, lanky, somewhat lacking in magical skill Ron. Ah well, in the books Rowling does not describe Hermione as attractive.** Let me elaborate. Frank can shapeshift into whatever animal he wants. Whose son is he? MARS. Riordan finds some obscure shapeshifting ancestry, which doesn't relate to Ares. Oh, and Frank is descended from Poseidon, which apparently grants him shapeshifting. Piper is a daughter of Venus and can do charmspeak, which is some rare sweet-talkin' ability. She talks Gaea to sleep in The Blood of Olympus ! Gaea!*** Then there's Leo, who has a fire ability that hasn't been seen in Vulcan's sons and daughters since 16-something. Jason's normal, since he's of Zeus, and Hazel's not too powerful. I just feel like Riordan didn't put in as much effort as he did for the first five. The first five, he was motivated. He was actually interested in his world. The second five, he already had the cash money, so he just lay back and cranked out more ways to get cash money. Fourth. In The Lightning Thief , whenever people mocked Zeus's name, thunder rolled. In general, the gods were shown to be great majestic beings worthy of respect. Which they are. THEY ARE GODS. They are immortal beings who wouldn't think a second before obliterating mortals who annoy them. A mere look at their true forms reduces you to ashes. Fifth. Nico di Angelo is not supposed to be gay. No offense to gay people, but nowhere in the first five did Nico show any indication of a latent homosexuality. Example: See page 84 of The Last Olympian Percy to Nico: \"Welcome back. Did you come by just to see Juniper?\" HE BLUSHED. ... Juniper puts a hand on Nico's arm. \"Nico's cheeks got even brighter red.\" CLEARLY, Riordan's sudden orientation change for Nico is strange. Why would he do it? The first five are worthy of many re-reads. I tried rereading The Lost Hero , but I quit a third through. There just isn't enough substance. It's hard to explain, but surely, you Percy Jackson fans should agree. Something's just lacking in the second five books. My recommendation? Don't even start the next five. Stop after The Last Olympian . Remain in the blissful memory of Percy Jackson and the Olympians. Revel of this ambrosia and nectar of bibliophiles. *The one thing that bugs me is that he starts at 12 in book 1 and ends at 16. If you think about it, that's pretty young for a guy to fight so many monsters and walk with gods. **In the movies, they messed up the casting and made Ginny kinda plain and Hermione way better looking. In the books, Ginny's the girl who dates a whole bunch of guys and Hermione's the nerd with buck teeth and curly hair. I'm not complaining, though. ***Note: I quit the second five after book three. I used Wikipedia for plot summaries, which achieves the same effect. ...more Always \u2728 amazing I like the story ideas. Title: Percy Jackson and the Olympians (all 5 of 'em) Audience: Middle Grade to YA Summary: A boy discovers that he is really a demigod (or the son of an Ancient Greek god). His life is dictated by a powerful prophecy which can either save or destroy Olympus (which, by the way, is located on the 500th floor of the Empire State Building in NYC). Remarks: The Lightning Thief - My favorite of the series and the one book that got me hooked. I HAD to read the other books because I was waiting for them al Title: Percy Jackson and the Olympians (all 5 of 'em) Audience: Middle Grade to YA Summary: A boy discovers that he is really a demigod (or the son of an Ancient Greek god). His life is dictated by a powerful prophecy which can either save or destroy Olympus (which, by the way, is located on the 500th floor of the Empire State Building in NYC). Remarks: The Lightning Thief - My favorite of the series and the one book that got me hooked. I HAD to read the other books because I was waiting for them all to be like this one. Don't get me wrong, the other books had their merits, just not the same feeling of discovery and wonderment. (Query: Is is because I found the new world of Ancient Mythology so intriguing and once all the perimeters of the magic were explained, I lost interest?) Percy Jackson (awesome name by the way) is a kid who just doesn't fit in with, you know, NORMAL kids. He knows he's been different, but doesn't know why until one of his teachers turns into a monster and he pulverizes her into dust with a ballpoint pen/sword. The entire book is filled with these hilarious juxtapositions. Meeting the Greek gods is like meeting a bunch of their stereotypes. Percy has quite an attitude--the reason why I like him so much in this book and really as much in the other books. Later, he loses his sarcasm (unfortunately!). The Sea of Monsters - Not bad. Similar to the first, but Percy is much tamer. The setting makes up for this when they go exploring in the footsteps of Odysseus. The Titan's Curse - This is when Percy's dreams get annoying. I mean, seriously, its like a POV cheating device. Percy basically flips through channels in his dreams and gets a taste of each character's POV. The Battle of the Labyrinth - My least favorite book in the series. Comparing it to other five-book series, like the Chronicles of Prydain, it seems to fall short. The author could have done so much more with character development and Percy's discovery of his identity. The truth of the matter is, he doesn't really have an identity to discover. He just has to wait around for his friends to tell him the secrets that they were holding back for some reason. He doesn't do much piecing together. In The Chronicles of Prydain my favorite book was Taran Wanderer because the readers got to learn so much about Taran with Taran. Alas! This was also the first book without the introduction of major characters. Because I read TC a lot earlier, I completely forgot what happened to Thalia. I thought she was dead, but the characters didn't think about her at all. The Last Olympian - Well, the beginning was a waste of my time, but it picked up for a smashing finish. The first few scenes felt contrived, especially at the end when I found out about the traitor/spy. Other than these scenes, there was no evidence for a spy. The romance was cute, tactful, and well placed. It made up for other character flaws. The ending almost ruined my suspension of disbelief, but I suppose it could be plausible. I was expecting more of a one-on-one with Percy and Kronos, but it worked out ok. The battle was really long. Oh, and the title doesn't really make sense to me, expect for the fact that Hestia was the final Olympian we had to meet in the series. There weren't really any secrets or prophecies surrounding it, which was disappointing. Further Remarks: Ok, I've bashed the series long enough. Overall I found the books to be charming, creative, and funny. I laughed out loud many times. Was reading them a waste of time? No. It just felt like the author was running out of ideas towards the end. Critics (and kids) have compared the series to the Harry Potter series. I can see why. Both series take a boy who doesn't fit in in our normal world (exclusion) and help him to discover that he is really a part of another world (inclusion). In both series, a fantastical world exists alongside our own (it must be a trend these days). I can't wait to read The Lost Heroes of Olympus series! ...more this was a very exhilarating series My thoughts on Percy Jackson and the Olympians It was about time I read this series ! This is a middle-grade fantasy series, I don't think anybody need an introduction about these books. Well, if you have already seen the movie(s) and not read the book yet, do not judge the book on the movies because these are pretty bad (same as\u00a0Eragon!). The books are really great, they are quick and fun read. As far as the plot is concerned, even if you can nearly always predict what is going to happen, the My thoughts on Percy Jackson and the Olympians It was about time I read this series ! This is a middle-grade fantasy series, I don't think anybody need an introduction about these books. Well, if you have already seen the movie(s) and not read the book yet, do not judge the book on the movies because these are pretty bad (same as\u00a0Eragon!). The books are really great, they are quick and fun read. As far as the plot is concerned, even if you can nearly always predict what is going to happen, the author may surprise you with some plot twists. Percy and his friends are each year going on an adventure, and you know it before starting the book, you know they are going to get into tricky situations. Still, this is always really funny, even the tragic situations are not that tragic. I mean, bad things happen like always, but you do not feel the tears coming, the books are pretty light in that sense. The characters are really likable (most of them at least), Percy is not that smart at the beginning of the series but he is still young, and you can watch him evolve\u00a0which is pretty cool. Annabeth is really smart but she can be a bit annoying (not Hermione-like though, to go on with the Harry Potter comparison that everyone seem to make). I am not going to talk about the other characters because you will meet some new characters through the books that I should not reveal the name of to avoid spoilers. One of the things I like the most, was the titles of the chapters. They were always really funny and you're wondering how the characters will get in this situations, this always seems really weird and then it always happens as predicted (well, I do not know if you can follow me on this one, but if you've read the books I guess you understand what I am trying to say.) I recommend this book to everyone who loves middle-grade books. I read the entire series in more or less a week (during finals, so I guess that if you're on holiday, you can do it even faster!). This is a 5-book-long series and I did not even grew tired of it. Most of the time when I marathon a long series, I need a break. But it did not happen here, I just could not stop reading, these books are pretty addictive! ...more I cut my milk-teeth reading Greek and Roman mythology, devouring everything I could lay my hands on before I was 12. Coming from a British-Sri Lankan family, it was the mythology I knew best as a child, and my mother and Nana would tell me stories of the Greek gods, titans, and heroes. It was one of my favorite genres growing up. I only discovered and learned how fascinating Indian mythology was much later. In those days, the bookshelves of libraries and bookstores didn't have much Indian mythol I cut my milk-teeth reading Greek and Roman mythology, devouring everything I could lay my hands on before I was 12. Coming from a British-Sri Lankan family, it was the mythology I knew best as a child, and my mother and Nana would tell me stories of the Greek gods, titans, and heroes. It was one of my favorite genres growing up. I only discovered and learned how fascinating Indian mythology was much later. In those days, the bookshelves of libraries and bookstores didn't have much Indian mythology or even Asian mythology to speak of. But I soon ran out of Greek mythology to read and all I could find was the same stuff regurgitated over and over again, often quite grim and boring. The movies were much better. I remember loving Clash Of The Titans and cartoons that featured references or episodes revolving around the myths. Comic were my go-to place during my teens and 20s. I was even thrilled to pieces at a passing reference in the 80s teen comedy Adventures In Babysitting where the garage mechanic is supposedly Thor passing as a mortal on Earth. But then I grew up and moved on to other things. Life happened. I got so blas\u00e9 I remember changing the channel when the movie adaptation of Percy Jackson & The Lightning Thief was on a few months ago, thinking 'Ah, another Harry Potter rip-off.' But recently I was looking for something different to cleanse my palate. I'd recently rediscovered fantasy and also YA fantasy. So I picked up The Lightning Thief. And a few hours and a few hundred pages later, I was blown away. Riordan manages to condense character development, action, fantasy, humor, emotion, all into a few well-turned lines. He does it so smoothly, mixing it all together like a great cocktail. Most YA authors barely manage to juggle romance and fantasy, or humor and satire. He throws it all in, stirs the pot, but then doles in out in lovely dollops. Entertaining as a Hollywood summer blockbuster. Fantastic reimagining of the mythology set in contemporary times. Simple characters quickly but deftly sketched. And it's as funny as it is fun! I love the wit most of all. That ability to turn an elegant pun or clever comeback while still keeping the action moving and the mystery intact. Riordan does it wonderfully. I'll admit, I'm now a fan! ...more<---C>Rick Riordan</---C><+++>Percy Jackson and the Olympians Boxed Set</+++>", "Title": "Percy Jackson and the Olympians Boxed Set"},
