{"Comments": "Imagine that you\u2019re reading one of those Twilight books as Edward is whispering chaste sweet nothings into Bella\u2019s ear, and it was oh-so-romantic-and-couldn\u2019t-you-just-die-OMG-OMG-OMG. Suddenly Edward\u2019s head flips back and his throat opens up like he just became a Pez dispenser. A six foot stinger/sucker thing flies out, and it zaps that silly girl right in a major artery and drains her dry in about twenty seconds while parasitic worms take over her corpse and turn her into a mindless bloodsucki Imagine that you\u2019re reading one of those Twilight books as Edward is whispering chaste sweet nothings into Bella\u2019s ear, and it was oh-so-romantic-and-couldn\u2019t-you-just-die-OMG-OMG-OMG. Suddenly Edward\u2019s head flips back and his throat opens up like he just became a Pez dispenser. A six foot stinger/sucker thing flies out, and it zaps that silly girl right in a major artery and drains her dry in about twenty seconds while parasitic worms take over her corpse and turn her into a mindless bloodsucking meatbag. And that is why Guillermo Del Toro will never direct one of the Twilight movies. Too bad because I\u2019d pay good money to see that. Del Toro, who directed several horror movies as well as the critically acclaimed but extremely gruesome Pan\u2019s Labyrinth , apparently was tired of the vampires being castrated by hordes of adoring teenage girls and set out to make them monsters again. And he does a pretty good job. A Boeing 777 lands in New York but most of the passengers are dead. Before you can say 'Bela Lugosi', a CDC doctor is getting lessons from a Van Helsing wannabe named Setrakian on the best way to deal with the vamps, which are essentially a parasitic virus run amok with a Master bloodsucker as the main villain pulling the strings to launch a full scale vampire apocalypse. The book had a fresh take on the vampire story and Del Toro and co-author Chuck Hogan do a good job of mixing some Old World vampire mysticism with 21st century science and tech. Especially creepy is the way that Manhattan is soon being quietly overrun during the initial outbreak. It\u2019s got a Stephen King \u2018Salem\u2019s Lot vibe in those descriptions. However, Del Toro borrowed liberally from some of his movies, most noticeably Mimic and Blade II . The characters are B-movie thin, especially the hero who is also saddled with a bad sub-plot of a custody fight for his son. (His ex-wife and the social service worker can\u2019t understand why a potential viral outbreak might cause a CDC doctor to have to reschedule an appointment or two.) The opening set-up with a plane load of dead passengers has been used twice before that I know of in Nelson DeMille\u2019s The Lion\u2019s Game and Fringe in its pilot episode. So the story seemed overly familiar in a lot of ways,<---M> and the writing isn\u2019t especially great</---M>, but it\u2019s got a lot of momentum and is loaded with enough gore and ultra-violence to make vampires nasty again. It\u2019s the first in a trilogy, and it was enough fun that I\u2019ll be checking out the next two. ...more What if vampires were real, ancient, and spread their vampirism like a virus? That's the central premise of <+++>The Strain</+++>, and I was on board from the first page. Ultimately, it was a disappointment for me, and I won't be reading the other books in the trilogy. This book starts out with so much promise. It's a taught, intense, compelling thriller that gradually introduces compelling characters that it's easy to care about. Then, in its middle third, it starts to wobble a little bit. The characters st What if vampires were real, ancient, and spread their vampirism like a virus? That's the central premise of <+++>The Strain</+++>, and I was on board from the first page. Ultimately, it was a disappointment for me, and I won't be reading the other books in the trilogy. This book starts out with so much promise. It's a taught, intense, compelling thriller that gradually introduces compelling characters that it's easy to care about. Then, in its middle third, it starts to wobble a little bit. The characters start doing things that don't make sense based on what we know about them, but because the slightly-too-convenient plot demands it. There were still enough interesting bits to keep me reading, but just past the halfway mark, I started to lose interest. In the final third, it completely collapses under the weight of lazy, hacky writing that moves from one set piece to the next, sloppily throwing in brief and unsatisfying character moments as an afterthought. So I'm of two minds on this: one, everything I stated above. The other, maybe I could have just suspended my disbelief and enjoyed the ride (which, I suspect, a lot of readers are able to do). Strangely, I expect that a lot of what didn't work for me in this book will actually play out fairly well on the television series that starts in July, and I'm interested to see how they will handle it. ...more Seems these days if you want to make a buck, you gotta write a vampire story.<---F> Don't get me wrong</---F>. I've enjoyed many vampire books out there but think the sub-genre has all but been bled dry. So along comes a book co-authored by visionary Guillermo Del Toro, a favorite movie director of mine, that claims to turn the concept of the vampire story on to its head. So yeah, I had high hopes for the book. It's too bad that after the promising first few chapters it simulated the experience of watching a Seems these days if you want to make a buck, you gotta write a vampire story. Don't get me wrong. I've enjoyed many vampire books out there but think the sub-genre has all but been bled dry. So along comes a book co-authored by visionary Guillermo Del Toro, a favorite movie director of mine, that claims to turn the concept of the vampire story on to its head. So yeah, I had high hopes for the book. It's too bad that after the promising first few chapters it simulated the experience of watching a bad TV mini-series with a blindfold on -- complete with cliche characters, anti-climactic and wholly ridiculous action scenes, and a very predictable and unsatisfying ending. Here's the set up: after a triple 7 jumbo jet taxis onto a JFK runway it goes mysteriously and completely belly up. That's a hook! All shades are inexplicably drawn and no one is able to communicate with the pilots or gain entrance to the plane. Neat-o. What gives? Once it's pried open like a tin of sardines (and the door mysteriously opens) they find a whole lot of people restfully peacefully in their seats, all dead. Oh, and a coffin filled with some very nice compost. Thankfully, a small cast of stereotypes is perceived to still be alive (the pilot, the rock star, the vicious lawyer bitch, the cute kid) and serve as some of the agents of the book's slow plot progression. We are left with some intriguing questions: What's that horrible smell? Why were all the shades drawn? How did this very modern plane with independent and redundant electrical systems fail all at once? Why were there no signs of struggle? How did that coffin get through Customs when I have to practically strip naked to get on a plane? Well, one of these questions is kind of answered in the rest of the book so I hope you're not a nitpicker like me. Enter our good guy, a free-thinking doctor from the CDC with marriage problems. He's not a bad fellow you see, he just works so hard at his job but BOY does he love his son ! He could have completed the cliche by being named Jack but instead goes by...Eph. Following our intrepid hero throughout the book, for no other reason than to provide a romantic interest and a counterpoint to his limp, wet dish rag relationship with his ex-wife, is Nora, the Strong Silent Type. So silent that she isn't given more than two sentences of dialog throughout the entire book -- despite being nearly inseparable from our protagonist. If this trilogy does make it to the theaters as so many speculate I feel for the woman cast in this thankless role. Expanding on our list of characters, we have a burly exterminator -- no, really, we do -- and a Holocaust survivor turned avenging vampire slayer, Abraham \"Rambo\" Setrakian. Abe, though pushing 80-something, according to my calculations, is an absolute death-dealing merchant in the presence of those pesky vampires. His walking stick predictably conceals a silver Ginsu sword which he swings about like Errol freakin' Flynn and yells \"My sword sings silver\" or something equally silly as he lops heads, arms, and other vampire appendages free in a furious rage. . Oh please. Abe hints at the end of the book that there's a lot about the vampires that the authors have been keeping him from saying. We'll see if that pays off in the future books. So, this whole \"redefining the genre\" nonsense? You're asking yourself: \"Can this really be true?\" In a word, no. As I said, the vampire genre has petered out significantly. The recent publication of The Passage was entertaining and somewhat original but the concept of vampires being created by viruses was plumbed many times before. Micheal Romkey's vampire books come to mind. Cripes, one of them was even called The Vampire Virus . The vampire elements could have been assembled from any number of checklists. The Strain is purely \"paint by numbers\". The middle of the book is maddeningly repetitive. We are quickly presented with a sketch or our next victim in their home, arriving home, or leaving their home. Their routine is interrupted by Something Unusual (dirt on the floor, a Haitian housekeeper sneaking into a house, the shed door being strangely open, etc.). The soon-to-be victims move forward without a flashlight or lights turned on to investigate, unsuccessfully trying to build up some tension in the reader, are faced with a \"turned\" vampire (usually a relative, friend, or cute kid) are are pounced upon, drained by the vampire's proboscis, and pooped and urinated on by the attacker. Aaaaand scene! This is played out so many DAMN times with so many people we don't know or care about it becomes nearly unbearable. The Strain might refer as much to the effort it takes to make it through these tedious scenes as it does the vampire virus. Other parts of the book are meant to inform the reader (city rats, the inner workings of the CDC, the lunar eclipse [HA HA! It's actually an occultation, you fool!] for example) but are so unnecessarily drawn out that they detract from what little story there is. As I felt recently with Cherie Priest's Boneshaker book, less is often more in these cases. \"Lookit me!! I did my RESEARCH!\" As for logic problems and plot holes, they exist a-plenty. I won't go into all of them but the biggest to me seem to involve the virus itself. If it's a virus, why do our vampire buddies require an invitation to cross a body of water? Is the virus transmitted by vampire blood or by these pesky inchworms? Why would silver affect the vampires the way it does? What the heck is with the coffin, other than it being a carryover from other vampire novels. Its purpose is never explained and the reader is left wondering if there is any reason for it at all. I also wonder how a Holocaust survivor turned professor turned pawn shop owner, an exterminator, and a doctor all somehow turn into vampire slaying ninjas in a matter of hours. They are slicing, dicing, kicking, flipping, and karate chopping the vampires with such ruthless efficiency they emerge from every scuffle without a scratch. This not only demolishes the believability of the book but also makes us even less interested in each skirmish's outcome. We already know they'll be triumphant -- even if they are picked up by the head like a basketball with dandruff, thrown clear across the room into walls, and beset upon by legions of strong, fast, toothy monsters Hell bent to destroy them. For all the slapstick violence The Strain could almost have been titled \"The Three Stooges Meet Dracula\" save for the lack of humor. We are given glimpses of some of the other six vampire Mafiosos near the end and are led to believe some kind of Vampire War is coming. Some kind of truce was formed and 3 Bosses got land over there, the other 3 got land over here. Our main vampire Boss in this book appears to have gotten the short end of the stick somewhere along the line and has been causing all sorts of ruckus of late because, darn it, he's had enough and he's not going to take it anymore! With a set up like that the series promises to get a whole lot worse before getting any better. And I'm just talking about the writing and plot. ...more This just isn't very good. After a promising and creepy opening, it devolves into repetitive ridiculousness. The writing is also just not good and sometimes laughable, providing such gems as this: \"Eph too had been turned. Not from human to vampire, but from healer to slayer.\" I did somehow finish it. My wife did not. I'm sure del Toro will eventually make a movie out of this and it will be one of the rare occasions that the movie is better than the book. This is a terrible book. Nearly all of the characters were caricatures straight out of Central Casting, or TV Tropes. We had the Wise Old Guy, the Street-Smart Shitkicker, The Brain, and The Chick. Oh, and speaking of The Chick, there were two: the love interest of the Brain and the nagging, irrational Ex-Wife -- because Ex-Wives must never be charming and smart -- mother of The Wesley Crusher son of The Brain. The whole book reads as though somebody figured out how to do Novel-By-Numbers and ma This is a terrible book. Nearly all of the characters were caricatures straight out of Central Casting, or TV Tropes. We had the Wise Old Guy, the Street-Smart Shitkicker, The Brain, and The Chick. Oh, and speaking of The Chick, there were two: the love interest of the Brain and the nagging, irrational Ex-Wife -- because Ex-Wives must never be charming and smart -- mother of The Wesley Crusher son of The Brain. The whole book reads as though somebody figured out how to do Novel-By-Numbers and made a bestseller out of it. Wait. That's probably exactly what happened. (i.e., book packager) So why three stars? Because I couldn't put the damn thing down. -_- Even bought the sequel (and devoured it too); how bizarre is that? It's terrible, but riveting. The fresh take on vampirism -- which I didn't think I would care about because I DON'T LIKE VAMPIRE NOVELS -- was enough to keep me reading despite the wooden characterization and leaden prose. And then somehow I started liking the damn thing. I never liked the \"good guys\", kept hoping for them to die -- but the villains were so much worse that I kept hoping for them to die first. Eventually I was just reading to enjoy every single character's death. I DO NOT UNDERSTAND THIS. But any book that hooked me this hard deserves at least three stars, so here they are. Oy vey. ...more This is a striking example of literotherapy. So tired from finals (finishing a semester-long draft--ending with 322 pages [!!!] plus a non fiction piece PLUS grading... [This is sooo irrelevant, but a good assessment of this reviewer's desperate mindset whilst reading the novel]) I REALLY had to do something about the overstimulated brain, to lull my senses significantly and inspire me to finally do something to chillax--so I got this from the library, deciding that del Toro seems to be one of t This is a striking example of literotherapy. So tired from finals (finishing a semester-long draft--ending with 322 pages [!!!] plus a non fiction piece PLUS grading... [This is sooo irrelevant, but a good assessment of this reviewer's desperate mindset whilst reading the novel]) I REALLY had to do something about the overstimulated brain, to lull my senses significantly and inspire me to finally do something to chillax--so I got this from the library, deciding that del Toro seems to be one of the few to have something both legitimately novel and ancient to say about my favorite all time genre, that is to say, Horror. But the cliches pile up like bodies: this is what I mean by literotherapy. They are so irresistibly recognizable (the NYC backdrop [WTC site, to be exact], the creatures from the night being tied to one main baddie, a father and son finally getting close by slaying/mutilating vampires...) as to be the equivalent of McDonalds chicken nuggets the bright day after an enormous all-night fiesta. There is nothing out of this world here--it is a so so mix between del Toro's \"Mimic\" and that crap movie \"I Am Legend\" (you can practically tell where all the CGI in the movie version of the novel will be found at--the creatures' tongues are more than ready and rendered in 3D at this point). I was disappointed that there is nothing new to inform on the genre. (But it is not easy to contribute to it at all.) The familiarity of it just wrapped me up like one large, fuzzy blanket. ...more This is the first of a planned trilogy. The director of Pan\u2019s Labyrinth and an award winning mystery author brings their vision to the vampire tale. Del Toro and friend - from Geek Nation The Strain is a fast, entertaining read, with a twist to the rationale for vampirism that is fun, if a bit derivative. In fact a lot of this book is derivative, cobbling together elements from a host of books and films. There is a scene that is reminiscent of the haunted ship sequence in Dracula . In the origina This is the first of a planned trilogy. The director of Pan\u2019s Labyrinth and an award winning mystery author brings their vision to the vampire tale. Del Toro and friend - from Geek Nation The Strain is a fast, entertaining read, with a twist to the rationale for vampirism that is fun, if a bit derivative. In fact a lot of this book is derivative, cobbling together elements from a host of books and films. There is a scene that is reminiscent of the haunted ship sequence in Dracula . In the original a ship that is carrying Dracula\u2019s coffin, home soil, and Drac himself, makes it to its destination, but the ship is completely depopulated. In this one an airplane manages to land, but all the passengers succumb to an instantaneous malady that appears to kill all but four of the people aboard. Fans of Alien will recognize a smile at how these vamps bite their prey. The subcutaneous squigglies that appear here will be familiar to anyone with the SyFy channel in their cable package. The New York setting brings together hints of 9/11 with the sort of I Am Legend scenario of one or a few real humans holding off the vampiric hordes. There is a strong element of 24 Days here as well. How long will it be before the entire city, and then the nation is overtaken by the bloodsuckers? And the vamps here seem to share considerable DNA with zombies. There is a hint of Underworld and even Anne Rice in that there is mention of battles between factions of the undead. No doubt fodder for volumes 2 and 3. While I found the frequent homages (they are homages, right, not crass copying?) to prior works tiresome after the first batch, I enjoyed some of the mechanisms presented as ways of dispatching the blood-hungry, and the added nuance to how mirrors work. And the name Eldritch Palmer summons not only Lovecraft, but Philip K. Dick\u2019s The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch . Jonathan Hyde as Eldritch Palmer \u2013 from Mashable.com delToro and Hogan have fun with darkness, from the dark cave that first takes the evil giant Sardu, to the darkness of the death plane, to the darkness of the solar eclipse. They head to the appropriate underworld of the New York infrastructure and counterpoint a bit with the skyscraper home of a prime baddie. A solar eclipse is imminent (actually, the next one in NYC is not until 2079) and some people ascribe the extant madness to that event. There are plenty of nifty visuals here, to be expected given that one author is such a master of visual media. David Bradley as Abraham Selvakian - from The Mental Attic Our Van Helsing is Abraham Selvakian, an old pawnbroker and Talmudic scholar. The authors go a bit overboard with some of their naming. Our CDC hero is Ephrain Goodweather. Really Corey Stoll at Ephrain Goodweather - From IGN I enjoyed the vampire mechanism explanation, but I felt a strong compulsion not to look too closely. I expect it would not hold up to any but the most cursory inspection. And how did all the passengers on that plane suffer the same fate at the same time? Surely someone saw someone else being harmed and left his or her seat, at the very least. the Master \u2013 from The Strain Wikia The TV show, from which the above images were all taken, is fun, as is the book but, for both book and show, you will definitely have to check your brain before jumping in. And what\u2019s that wormy thing on your arm? ...more 6.0 stars (this one may make it onto my \"All Time Favorite\" list). This is instantly on my list of the top five Vampire stories I have ever read (or in this case read and also listened to on audiobook). I am not a \"vampire\" book reader in general meaning I do not buy every new vampire story that comes out. I do read a lot of SF/Fantasy/Horror and so I do come across them on a fairly typical basis. For me, what makes a great vampire novel is when you can create a completely original (or mostly or 6.0 stars (this one may make it onto my \"All Time Favorite\" list). This is instantly on my list of the top five Vampire stories I have ever read (or in this case read and also listened to on audiobook). I am not a \"vampire\" book reader in general meaning I do not buy every new vampire story that comes out. I do read a lot of SF/Fantasy/Horror and so I do come across them on a fairly typical basis. For me, what makes a great vampire novel is when you can create a completely original (or mostly original) take on the very well known Vampire mythos. Examples of well done, original vampire stories (IMHO) include: (1) Carrion Comfort by Dan Simmons (2) Agyar by Steven Brust and (3) the Lestat novels by Anne Rice (yes these have been much imitated since they first came out and are likely responsible for the myriad of vampire novels out today but at the time they were \"ground breaking\" and created a whole new Vampire Mythos). The Strain adds to this legacy by handling the vampire \"mythos\" in a very effective way. In addition to making the \"vampires\" completely alien and scary (i.e., no pretty people biting pretty people), the book is structured in a very clinical \"CSI\" type fashion which I thought was very well done. Another very interesting (and original) aspect of the book is the way it explores the struggle of the \"newly infected\" in coping with what they are becoming and the danger they pose to their friends and family. Very well done. Highly recommended!!!! ...more (Music fades.) Me: Welcome back to the studio everyone, we have a wonderful surprise for you. Joining us for a few minutes on the airwaves today are two men that have transformed the vampire world: let\u2019s welcome Chuck Logan and Guillermo Del Toro. Let\u2019s start with you Chuck. You are the recipient of a 2005 Hammett Award for your novel PRINCE OF THIEVES, and are the bestselling author of numerous others. I have to admit, I just saw Ben Affleck\u2019s version of your novel PRINCE OF THIEVES, renamed The (Music fades.) Me: Welcome back to the studio everyone, we have a wonderful surprise for you. Joining us for a few minutes on the airwaves today are two men that have transformed the vampire world: let\u2019s welcome Chuck Logan and Guillermo Del Toro. Let\u2019s start with you Chuck. You are the recipient of a 2005 Hammett Award for your novel PRINCE OF THIEVES, and are the bestselling author of numerous others. I have to admit, I just saw Ben Affleck\u2019s version of your novel PRINCE OF THIEVES, renamed The Town, and I have to say: Wow! What a great movie. CL: Thanks, Gavin, you\u2019re too kind. Me: And joining Mr. Logan is the incredible genius behind such stellar films as Pan\u2019s Labyrinth and Hellboy. Tell me Mr. Del Toro, when will The Hobbit be done\u2026I kid, I kid, we are all waiting patiently to see if you can live up to Peter Jackson. Another joke\u2026moving on! What inspired you to take on the awesome challenge of rewriting the vampire tale? GDT: It was easy, really. I hate sparkling vampires. Me: Well said, sir. GDT: And the story needed to be revamped\u2026(chuckles to himself)\u2026vampires are mean and nasty and smelly and don\u2019t want to date. They want to feed on you and rip you apart and savor the blood in your veins. Me: There are children listening, so let\u2019s keep the graphic details to a minimum. Okay, thanks. CL: He\u2019s right, though. There are too many vampire stories now that show vampires as gentle and understanding creatures that have been misunderstood or marginalized in society. This type of storytelling is a disservice to vampires everywhere. Vampires aren\u2019t suave like Brad Pitt, and they certainly aren\u2019t romantic. They see us humans as nothing more than cattle. A source of food. To them, we are no better than rats. Me: Elaborate, please. CL: Sure. You see, like rats, humans have become a plague on this planet. We have managed to infiltrate every known surface and populate it with our kind. And what do we do when he have successfully populated a place? We harvest it for its resources or whatever we think is valuable. Like rats, we spread our disease through consumption. Me: A pleasant thought. GDT: Excuse me; I need to use the restroom. Me: Sure. Down the hall and on the left. (Guillermo Del Toro leaves the room.) Me: Okay, Chuck, do you mind if I call you Chuck? We have only a few moments and I need to get some things off my chest. First off, you are the writer of the two. Stop taking a backseat. Del Toro has an incredible imagination, and you two are sitting on a potential game-changer here. But you need to man up and take the reigns. Let him storyboard the hell out of it, I\u2019d like to see that movie, but you need to be the one dictating the novels. Let me shoot you straight. The book sucks. The writing in places shines. I\u2019ll give you the credit. But, overall, it seems as if you were practicing your secretarial skills. You have a whale of a story that is lost in the murky shallows. I expect big things in book two. (Guillermo Del Toro reenters the room.) Me: Well, folks, that\u2019s all the time we have for today. Be sure to tune in for our discussion of book two of this trilogy THE FALL. RECOMMENDED WITH RESERVATIONS (THE FALL if you are listening, please be better than THE STRAIN.) ...more Security Question: Please answer the following question to proceed with the review. What is your idea of a vampire? a.A sparkly 'Monster' like this: b. A vicious, stinger flaring Monster like this: If you answer (b), read on. Else, you might find this review a little offensive. The First Bight: When I saw that <---A>Guillermo del Toro</---A> had written a book, I simply could not wait to read it. Reason: He's the Master of dark fantasies . No no, not paranormal eroticas, which people try to pass off under the Security Question: Please answer the following question to proceed with the review. What is your idea of a vampire? a.A sparkly 'Monster' like this: b. A vicious, stinger flaring Monster like this: If you answer (b), read on. Else, you might find this review a little offensive. The First Bight: When I saw that Guillermo del Toro had written a book, I simply could not wait to read it. Reason: He's the Master of dark fantasies . No no, not paranormal eroticas, which people try to pass off under the same title, but real horror, the occults, the tabboos... The creator of Pan's Labyrinth, The Devils Backbone and The Orphanage. So, as soon as I laid my hands on this book, I fell upon it hungrily and started devouring it. And the first chapter was one of the BEST first chapters I've EVER read. The Transformation: As I slowly started getting drawn into the story, I realized that it was ages since I'd last read a good horror tale. This can be a really tricky genre. You overdo the gore, it becomes a slasher-tale. You overdo the suspense, it gets tedious. You overdo the cheap thrills and it becomes plain stupid. But this book had all the ingredients in the perfect proportions. The plot: A Boeing 777 arrives at JFK carrying the of dead bodies of all the passengers and the crew. It falls upon Dr. Ephraim \"Eph\" Goodweather, head of their Canary project, a rapid-response team that investigates biological threats, to solve the mystery. With each new clue unearthed, he finds himself drawn into a battle of mammoth proportions as a virus spreads through the city, turning it's population into vampires. He is helped by Abraham Setrakian, a former professor and Holocaust survivor, who is the only person who knows how to fight the evil force. The story reads like a CSI, and I was amazed at how CREDIBLE it sounded. Credible, and at the same time amazingly scary. A Thank You note: Early in the story while talking about vampires, the author says: \"Think more along the lines of a man with a black cape. Fangs. Funny accent. Now take away the cape and fangs. The funny accent. Take away anything funny about it.\" Thank you for reinforcing my belief in Vampires to be sickly rotten creatures of the dark feeding upon innocent warm human blood, not to be loved, not to be respected, but to be feared. [image error] HIGHLY RECOMMENDED if you want to relieve the magic of your childhood horror tales -- the ones which left you enough scared to detest going to piss at night, the ones which fed on your deepest fears, and played tricks with your mind! ...more \u201c...to all the monsters in my nursery: May you never leave me alone.\u201d While the Strain may deliver a nifty TV show, it doesn\u2019t necessarily mean it\u2019s a great book. While that may sound contradictory, trust me, that\u2019s the way it read. Guillermo del Toro is used to making movies and you can feel the sense of 'scene changes' in the book. You can tell it's for the sake of reading the story and plot rather than reading through character's experiencing story and plot. Lots of tell, little show, there is \u201c...to all the monsters in my nursery: May you never leave me alone.\u201d While the Strain may deliver a nifty TV show, it doesn\u2019t necessarily mean it\u2019s a great book. While that may sound contradictory, trust me, that\u2019s the way it read. Guillermo del Toro is used to making movies and you can feel the sense of 'scene changes' in the book. You can tell it's for the sake of reading the story and plot rather than reading through character's experiencing story and plot. Lots of tell, little show, there is no sense of care or realism with the paper people. I watched an episode of the TV show, which worked because they made the characters come alive, but also because this story isn't done in TV show format much. Yeah, we get the popular vampire strains in True Blood and Vampire Diaries, but how often recently have we gotten TV shows about bad vamps like this on the TV screen? Since it\u2019s not done to death, it works for watching \u2013 but in book form, the story has been sucked dry, so it needs other redeeming qualities to keep people returning for more. For the TV media it was new and inventive. In book form it is dull and so overdone that I couldn't bring myself to care. There were no surprise twists, I didn't care about the victims, the story was stale. I could predict most of the events that took place as they came around. To stay fresh and intriguing, this book at least needed fleshed-out characters I cared about. Instead we get semi-dry people who blended together after a while. Having a custody battle thrown in wasn\u2019t fun either. It didn't help that I'd seen the show first - no surprises in store for me - but the dry writing combined with the familiar plot makes this one an average read. If you\u2019re a die hard fan of the show you may be impressed, but for me? I needed more substance. ...more 3.5 stars, with a slight nudge toward 4. I have had this book on my To-Read list for a while, but never got around to reading it until now. I'm glad that I read it because it was pretty good, and parts were very creepy. I didn't find it scary and had no problem sleeping or anything reading it, but there were parts that had a higher than average creep factor, and it was nice. I liked that this book had a realistic baseline, and felt like it could truly happen. Don't get me wrong, I like the tradit 3.5 stars, with a slight nudge toward 4. I have had this book on my To-Read list for a while, but never got around to reading it until now. I'm glad that I read it because it was pretty good, and parts were very creepy. I didn't find it scary and had no problem sleeping or anything reading it, but there were parts that had a higher than average creep factor, and it was nice. I liked that this book had a realistic baseline, and felt like it could truly happen. Don't get me wrong, I like the traditional vampire lore that is based on a curse or some evil or something, a changing of the soul that's manifested in the body, if you will... but this was different and I really liked the concept, as well as the science behind it. There were things that I felt could have been stronger, and more fleshed out, mainly the characters. There were a few references that didn't really bear out in behavior, and some behaviors that didn't quite match the information that we had, like Setrakian's stamina, or Ephraim being a recovering alcoholic of less than a year and not craving a drink... but it was enjoyable nonetheless. I mostly didn't have any trouble liking or caring about these characters, so the little inconsistencies didn't become issues for me. Also, I feel like there were one or two unresolved issues in the story (or maybe they were resolved, but not exactly clearly?), but they didn't detract too much from the story, and could still be addressed in later books. I also liked the writing for the most part. It had a sort of \"For Everyday Use\" feel, but then some parts were written in such a way as to just feel like they were more. Again though, there were sections that, for lack of a better term, tried too hard and felt a little forced or out of place. For instance, this line: \"Like smoke rising up a chimney, we must force him to the roof.\" This, in the middle of a vampire vs human battle... I just feel like the first part of the line makes it awkward and takes me out of the story. I think of myself as if I were in the story: I'm fighting my ass off to stay alive here, I see my target, I communicate my intention in the shortest possible command to save my breath, to not waste time, to not give anything a chance to kill me while I'm waxing poetic. \"Force him to the roof!\" or at the most, \"We must force him to the roof!\". Who has time for similes in life or death situations? Sure the hell not me. Anyway, I'm curious where this story is going to go... there was an interesting development at the end that has me intrigued... Horror October 2011: #5 ...more A nice and breezy read, though nice isn't quite the right word and the breeze is a bit fetid! The Strain is an increasingly rare (ahem) strain of badass vampire novels. There are no well-coiffed, sexy, maudlin vampires in this book, they just \"vant to suck your blood\" (without the Lugosi style Euro-accented declaration). Of course talking about how de-fanged, lame and sparkly vampires have become since the advent of Twilight has become a trope for vampire books review so I just want to get it ou A nice and breezy read, though nice isn't quite the right word and the breeze is a bit fetid! The Strain is an increasingly rare (ahem) strain of badass vampire novels. There are no well-coiffed, sexy, maudlin vampires in this book, they just \"vant to suck your blood\" (without the Lugosi style Euro-accented declaration). Of course talking about how de-fanged, lame and sparkly vampires have become since the advent of Twilight has become a trope for vampire books review so I just want to get it out of my system. Besides, I believe Anne Rice started the trend with Interview with the Vampire , to her credit she told her story in a more thoughtful, literary and intelligent manner than Ms. Meyer (of no-link-to-author fame). Artwork for the graphic novel edition Anyway, back to badass vampires and the fun times to be had with them. The Strain starts off very well with a plane mysteriously landing with all the lights off and no communication or activity from the crew or passengers. Given the synopsis of the book (not to be found within this review), you can probably guess what happened to them. In this case being somewhat predictable does not detract from the fun as the story is nicely built up and the excitement mounts. I do enjoy the sci-fi-ish vampire design (that is some crazy proboscis!), and the more scientific description and rationalization of vampirism which is all too rare. For example: \"It (a vampire's heart) was misshapen, shrunken. The arterial structure had been altered also, the circulatory system grown more simplified, the arteries themselves covered over with a dark, cancerous blight.\" No, this is not Gene Simmons This reminds me of GRRM's Fevre Dream and Brian Lumley's excellent Necroscope series, I am reliably told there are others like Justin Cronin's The Passage but I have not read them yet. I am leery of reading vampire fiction these days, I am afraid (very afraid) of coming across more Edwards, Stefans, Damons etc. The co-authors did a good job with the plot structure, the action and the accessible / readable narrative. The prose style and characterization seem a little pedestrian to me, no linguistic flourishes to be found here, not that such a thing is necessary of course, but they add to the reading experience. Guillermo del Toro is of course a highly gifted director of popular genre movies like Blade II, Pan's Labyrinth and Hellboy movies. The book's action scenes do seem to be quite cinematic and visual, though I could have done without some of the soap opera elements. His co-author Chuck Hogan was a very popular wrestler in his heyday before turning to writing is the author of several best sellers which I have not had the pleasure of reading (I do wonder what his prose style is like in his solo endeavors?). The end of the book is inconclusive without being a cliffhanger, clearly due to this being the first book of a trilogy and the authors want to entice the readers to come back. The book is fun but I am somewhat ambivalent about reading the rest of the trilogy, something is missing here, may be a staked heart. Vampire Homer _______________________ Notes: \u2022 The Passage by Justin Cronin is a similar bio-vampire book, also a commercially successful series, and also being adapted for TV. It is mostly set in a far future post apocalypse world. It better written than The Strain I think, but suffers from excessive length. \u2022 I have seen a few episodes of the TV show based on this series , gave it up after these few. Didn't really work for me, the acting and the script was not up to par I think; some of the special effects were fun. Cool artwork for the TV show. Look at that damn proboscis! ...more This was probably a 3.5 star read for me. It was good, but it could have been better. I think the writing lacked a certain polish, although I did like some of the imagery. And it definitely was scary! Story : The vampires in this book were both disgusting and fearsome. I admit that thinking about the vampires and their nasty stinger and how they would excrete their waste products gave me the shivers (both in repulsion and fear). I liked the scientific angle employed in this story, taking an ancient This was probably a 3.5 star read for me. It was good, but it could have been better. I think the writing lacked a certain polish, although I did like some of the imagery. And it definitely was scary! Story : The vampires in this book were both disgusting and fearsome. I admit that thinking about the vampires and their nasty stinger and how they would excrete their waste products gave me the shivers (both in repulsion and fear). I liked the scientific angle employed in this story, taking an ancient evil, and giving it a scientific explanation. The potential for exponential and catastrophic spread of the vampire plague in this novel gives me the shudders. Books like this make me glad for the light of the sun, which is what a good vampire novel should do. This book touches both on my primal fear of ancient evil and infection, so it really did push my buttons. Characters : There were some characters that were so beautifully written that they spoke to me. Others were too cardboard for me. Abraham Satrakian, the elderly Jewish Shoah survivor was a wonderful character. He was like Van Helsing, with even more credibility, having earned his slayer status deep in the trenches. Hearing about his horrendous time in the Treblinka concentration camp added a deeper sense of horror and anguish to this story. He's one tough old guy, and he's definitely my favorite character in this novel. Ephraim is a pretty good character. At times, his narrative seemed a little half-baked. Over the course of the book, he gained a little more life and authority in my mind. I think his co-worker Nora was woefully under-used. I wondered what the purpose of her character was, other than being a soundboard for him. I felt very badly for Ansel and his situation, with his wife Anne-Marie. I didn't really care for the lawyer woman Luss, although I want to see what happens with her perceptive, Haitian nanny and the kids she saved from their mother. I like Fett, the ratcatcher a lot. He's a smart guy, street smart, intelligent, and resourceful. He knows how to handle himself. He is a huge asset to the small vampire slaying group that Abraham forms with Ephraim. The Master Vampire, well, I'm kind of undecided about. He wasn't in this book enough for him to resonate with me. I think Abraham is a much more powerful, and iconic character. The Master is more like Patient Zero to me, just a disease vector, one who comes around and sneers into the camera. He didn't really establish a lot of credibility with me as the Great Villain or the Big Bad. We'll see if that changes with the other books in the series... Overall Thoughts : This was a suspenseful, scary book to hear on audio. I was definitely sucked in. My aunt (who was riding with me on Friday) also got sucked in. Unfortunately, I think the characterization could have been more even-handed. There were a bit too many storylines, and I felt like some were dropped prematurely. I know this is a three-part book, so I guess I will have to keep reading to see where things go. As far as being scary and gross and keeping a reader invested, this is a Class A read. I think that work on the characters and the plot would have made it a stronger read over all. Ron Perlman was a really good narrator. He has a great voice, and he did a good job with the accents. I would definitely listen to other audiobooks read by him. If you find this available on audiobooks, and you are a vampire fan, I say check it out. ...more First off, I have to say that I am not the kind of person that enjoys writing bad reviews. I love books, all books pretty much, and I\u2019m really easy to please. Yet this book was a letdown of utter proportions and I can\u2019t contain my frustration with it. I had been eagerly awaiting The Strain for months, I had heard nothing but good things from all the book related cites I visit and all of the catalogues I receive, not to mention the raving reviews it got everywhere else. The one question I have fo First off, I have to say that I am not the kind of person that enjoys writing bad reviews. I love books, all books pretty much, and I\u2019m really easy to please. Yet this book was a letdown of utter proportions and I can\u2019t contain my frustration with it. I had been eagerly awaiting The Strain for months, I had heard nothing but good things from all the book related cites I visit and all of the catalogues I receive, not to mention the raving reviews it got everywhere else. The one question I have for all of the people who said how amazing it was is: Did you and I read the same book? My second question: Do Richard Matheson and Stephen King know that their work is being compared to this? I think I need to explain step by step why I really disliked this book and why I think it\u2019s so misleading. Here I\u2019ve copied the synopsis, it\u2019s nearly identical to what is on the back of the paperback edition: They have always been here. Vampires. In secret and in darkness. Waiting. Now their time has come. In one week, Manhattan will be gone. In one month, the country. In two months\u2014the world. A Boeing 777 arrives at JFK and is on its way across the tarmac, when it suddenly stops dead. All window shades are pulled down. All lights are out. All communication channels have gone quiet. Crews on the ground are lost for answers, but an alert goes out to the CDC. Dr. Eph Goodweather, head of their Canary project, a rapid-response team that investigates biological threats, gets the call and boards the plane. What he finds makes his blood run cold. In a pawnshop in Spanish Harlem, a former professor and survivor of the Holocaust named Abraham Setrakian knows something is happening. And he knows the time has come, that a war is brewing... Sounds pretty freaking amazing, eh? Then, inside the cover of the paperback edition, are five \u2013yes, five\u2013 pages of reviews going on, and on, and ON, about how fantastic The Strain is, how it\u2019s a masterpiece that has redefined the vampire myth, how it\u2019s \u201can unholy spawn of I Am Legend out of Salem\u2019s Lot\u201d \u2013at this point, I started to gag a little bit. Can you say \u2018misleading\u2019? (view spoiler) [The only saving grace of this book is the characters Eph, Setrakian, Zach, and Fet (the Exterminator). They were honestly the only real reason I kept reading. Eph is a newly single dad who was married more to his career than to his wife, so she left him. She wants full custody of their child Zach because she 1) wants to ruin Eph\u2019s world, and 2) she\u2019s jealous and kind of petty. Setrakian is a holocaust survivor with more bad memories and nightmares than anyone should carry around. None of which is surprising given the snippets, or \u201cInterludes\u201d as they\u2019re called in the book, of his time in a death camp as a Jewish Pole. He\u2019s got the longest history with the monster, and he\u2019s the acting team leader for the most part. Zach is an incredibly smart and caring young boy who is much too aware of the world around him and a kid that just wants to be with his dad \u2013the only person who gets him. And Fet, oh Fet, the Russian rat exterminator. I think he\u2019s my favourite character, he\u2019s tough, mean, and knows how to kill vermin. What else could you want in a guy? But I digress. I think by far the most annoying things about this book are that it is 200 pages too long in the beginning, the structure of the prose, and the fact that it was utterly predictable. I want to know what horror formula the writers followed. I\u2019ll start with the prose. It seems to me that the authors tried their hardest to find the most convoluted vocabulary they could and put it together in such a way that it\u2019s just stilted and difficult to understand. The Thesaurus can be your friend, but it can also be your enemy. Don\u2019t get me wrong, it\u2019s an easy read, but I had to read half of it twice because I had no idea what they were trying to say or describe. Also, the way that they integrated facts (to make their vocabulary make sense) was idiotic. It would have been smoother if they had added a glossary at the end and bolded all the key terms. My primary example: the Occultation. From page 107 to 112 they proceed to tell me ALL about how a \u201csolar eclipse\u201d is really a misnomer, it should in fact be called an occultation because the moon passes between the sun and the earth, it doesn\u2019t pass into the sun\u2019s shadow, etc, etc. At first it\u2019s a neat fact, by page 112 you just want to know what their bloody point is. And this is only one example. It happens a lot. Second, the predictability. There was absolutely not one single surprising thing in this novel. There were parts that freaked me out because the vampires are honestly creepy \u2013I\u2019ll give them points on the biology of the creatures\u2013 but aside from that, it was kind of a yawn fest. My final complaint: the ending. Needless to say, the big bad evil gets away at the end. I expected that, however, how he gets away is so utterly stupid I was swearing at the book. The old guy has a heart attack in the middle of the big fight (we learn in the last 50 pages he has a bad heart). Dr. Eph is the main contender in this fight since he has decided he\u2019s the one who gets to kill the monster (you know, because he\u2019s been personally affected so he has the right to the evil\u2019s head, as opposed to the guy who has been hunting this thing for three quarters of his life). Being the doctor that he is, he runs to the old guy\u2019s assistance IN THE MIDDLE OF THE MAJOR FIGHT SCENE. Hmm, jee, what\u2019s more important: slaying the thing that wants to destroy mankind or running to the aid of the 80 year old? Did it occur to him he could play doctor AFTER killing the thing since he already had his sword at its neck? Nope, of course not. How else would the monster escape? This is pretty much how book one of the trilogy ends. At this point I was completely fed up. I couldn\u2019t stand the sentences, I couldn\u2019t stand the predictability, I couldn\u2019t stand the whiny victims who wouldn\u2019t stay in the hospital and then bitched about how bad they felt after surviving a mass freak phenomenon, I couldn\u2019t stand the word for word definitions the writers tried to pass off as their writing on the science and language crap they were trying to explain, I couldn\u2019t stand how the new guy waltzes in and starts playing leader while fighting his internal struggle of going from healer to slayer \u2013cry me a freaking river. And I don\u2019t even get a good ending to redeem all of my struggling! (hide spoiler) ] Needless to say I\u2019m bummed out. I\u2019m going to read the second one because I want to see what happens and I\u2019m hoping they\u2019ve fixed a few things. It\u2019s smaller than The Strain, so that\u2019s already a positive for it. End of whine-off. ...more The Strain Is a Disappointment: Or, 4 Reasons Why Twilight Is a Better Book than The Strain I confess that I am a newcomer to vampire fiction. It was the buzz surrounding Meyer's Twilight that dragged me into the genre and I found myself pleasantly piqued to see what else it had to offer. You can imagine, then, my immense pleasure at discovering Guillermo Del Toro's remarkable essay in the New York Times about why we hunger for monster fiction generally and vampire fiction specifically. The essay The Strain Is a Disappointment: Or, 4 Reasons Why Twilight Is a Better Book than The Strain I confess that I am a newcomer to vampire fiction. It was the buzz surrounding Meyer's Twilight that dragged me into the genre and I found myself pleasantly piqued to see what else it had to offer. You can imagine, then, my immense pleasure at discovering Guillermo Del Toro's remarkable essay in the New York Times about why we hunger for monster fiction generally and vampire fiction specifically. The essay suggested deep cultural needs that are best expressed in the fantastic persona of the vampire. I finished the essay, posted a link to it to my Facebook page, and promptly bought the Sony Reader edition. Then I had the misfortune of reading the book. It is safe to label the work as beyond cliche, devoid of any cultural impact, and lacking any real characters. In fact, the book is so, so...so just bad that I came away with a new appreciation for Stephenie Meyer's poorly written Twilight saga. Let me elaborate in 4 points which show that The Strain ... 1 - Makes women into empty cliches. Lessee, you have the wonderful ex-wife who only divorced her man because he loved his job so much. You have the beautiful assistant into whose arms the principal character fell before the book even started but whom he can't love. That's it. These are the only two women in the book who we are supposed to develop any feelings for. And we can't, because they never say anything real women would say. In contrast, Twilight's women are painfully true to type, with all the self-consciousness and personal insecurity that real women face -- too much so for my tastes, but at least they had real, if exaggerated, thoughts. 2 - Is action-packed to a fault. One of my biggest gripes about Meyer's writing is that she always shied away from a fight, especially in what was supposed to be a climactic last book (see my review on this point here ). But where Meyer fails, Del Toro overdelivers, putting such a premium on action that decapitating vampires becomes tiresome by the end. I skipped several pages in the final battle scene because I grew so weary of the predictable action and -- like Seinfeld 's Elaine -- just \"wanted it to end.\" 3 - Depends on plot points that are purely driven by the author's needs, not those of the characters. I won't spoil the plot -- or what there is of it -- by providing evidence here, but suffice it to say that in four days, enough wild coincidences occur to make winning the megamillion lottery seem commonplace in contrast. And characters make some of the dumbest decisions you can imagine, simply to deliver themselves deeper into the increasingly unbelievable plot. 4 - Requires the willing suspension of not only disbelief, but of most brain cells. I know it's supposed to be a vampire novel (or zombie novel, depending on who you want to listen to) but I still want it to feel real. I don't want one vampire to be able to strike lightning fast with superhuman strength at six feet away while another one can seemingly be held at bay with a mere elbow under the chin. I don't want a centuries-old Master vampire to have such an unwarranted personal vendetta against a mere human. For that matter, I don't want Master vampires to stop and explain themselves to their prey. Who does that? No Master vampire I have ever known, that's for sure. Yes, Stephenie, there really is a Santa Claus, and he has just brought you a gift called The Strain , a vampire novel so unbelievable and uninteresting that it elevates your flawed but sincere saga to the level of darn good book. No, I will not read the two sequels. ...more This was good, really good I have the sequel waiting at home for me and can't wait to start. There are a lot of characters so it did take time for me get everyone straight.For whatever reason everytime Gus come around I was like \"who the Hell is Gus\" and had to sort of go back and get reaquainted with him. I appreciated that this was shorter then The Passage (what isn't? am I right?). It seemed like Hogan and Del Toro got everything right for me, the length, not too much gore, lots of eerie creepy This was good, really good I have the sequel waiting at home for me and can't wait to start. There are a lot of characters so it did take time for me get everyone straight.For whatever reason everytime Gus come around I was like \"who the Hell is Gus\" and had to sort of go back and get reaquainted with him. I appreciated that this was shorter then The Passage (what isn't? am I right?). It seemed like Hogan and Del Toro got everything right for me, the length, not too much gore, lots of eerie creepy suspense. Quick Jessi Note:At one point there are Saint Bernards, I own a Saint Bernard(the cutest one ever) the moment it was said how sweet and loving they were I knew they were not long for this book. Which made me then concerned about my own escape plan if Vampire/Zombiepocalypse ever occurs. It is not a stress I need in my life right now but I will be working on it hopefully by the time I finish the second book I will have a revised escape plan that ensures the safety of my son and our gigantic dog ...more A thrilling story of a race against time for the human populace as a virus strain like no other before has landed in the USA and the living become turned, the scary part is they head home and come after their loved ones first. There is a master of the dark set to dominate the underworld of the vampires that leads the story on to next novel. A action packed race against the spread of vampires, forces of good and evil, survival and death, would make a good movie. For interview and trailers click li A thrilling story of a race against time for the human populace as a virus strain like no other before has landed in the USA and the living become turned, the scary part is they head home and come after their loved ones first. There is a master of the dark set to dominate the underworld of the vampires that leads the story on to next novel. A action packed race against the spread of vampires, forces of good and evil, survival and death, would make a good movie. For interview and trailers click link http://more2read.com/?review=the-stra... ...more This review refers to the audiobook version. 4.5 -- but I am going with the 5 above because, you know, I am usually really mean and it is the holiday season. First, I am shocked and appalled, well actually just shocked, that my most trusted Goodreads reviewers only gave this an average of about 3.5 stars. Usually I feel like I am the one who is too critical and won't give a novel that isn't on some book award list somewhere more than 3 stars. Nonetheless, I loved this book despite the rousing okay This review refers to the audiobook version. 4.5 -- but I am going with the 5 above because, you know, I am usually really mean and it is the holiday season. First, I am shocked and appalled, well actually just shocked, that my most trusted Goodreads reviewers only gave this an average of about 3.5 stars. Usually I feel like I am the one who is too critical and won't give a novel that isn't on some book award list somewhere more than 3 stars. Nonetheless, I loved this book despite the rousing okay from my friends. Hmm? Okay, maybe my rating is influenced by at least one of the following factors: * Being sick of vampires with souls (whether they sparkle or not) or vampires having personalities and forming relationships and please, God, vampire romances with human or inhuman partners. (Note: BTVS is so excluded); * 'Salem's Lot , which is just frickin' awesome; * Apocalypse! * Ron Perlman This book has old school nasty vampires that are all about turning you into a blood-sucking fiend and are not about taking you to prom. + 10 points. (view spoiler) [ I am currently ignoring the whole end-bit where suddenly 6 other master vampires exist who are masterminding something and there are some sort of vampire rules and blah blah blah general yuck (hide spoiler) ] . It reads like 'Salem's Lot in the sense of random-ish collection of evil-fighters aligning against ancient evil. The Strain, unlike 'Salem's Lot , leaves God out of the equation, so we have no worries about one of our heroes' faith falling short, but who cares, our motley (kinda -- I guess add Vasily and that makes it motley) crew is stepping up and fighting primordial evil with more humanistic sort of weaknesses. We get a ton of creepy fun time, just like in 'Salem's Lot , including bad things that happen when you are outside as well as when you are inside ! (Personal note: I was listening to this on my deck while my dogs were out in the backyard, saw some sort of shadow in a bush and almost had a stroke. There is really no way I can give a bad review to a scary book that causes freak out for no reason or makes you want to stake a squirrel). And you have a Master and a coffin and helpers and tons of turned vampire citizens -- I can't help myself, what is not to love? That The Strain decides to go for all out destruction of the human race via vampire plague is just too cool for school for this gal who loves herself some good end-of-the-world action. It was like following the beginning of the zombie apocalypse without having to yet again read about the zombie Apocalypse. Ron Perlman is just awesome. Granted, you can tell that he is not a typical narrator, and so many narrators do have something on him, but he was just terrific in speaking this tale. Bad bits: Too much fighting at the end. I know, there are swords (!) and nail guns (though that UV light seems less than spectacular descriptively), but come on already -- I was so tired of first fighting this group, then that group, then the Master, etc. etc. etc. that I was really amazed swashbuckling could become tedious. The beginning could have moved along a bit faster. I am not this book's editor, so let her figure it out, but I do know that it was very easy to put this audiobook down for long periods of time without wondering about it. Naturally, there are the other flaws you see in popular fiction such as things like character development being a little sketchy, some stuff is just patently ridiculous/too Deus ex machina without reference to \"fate\"/divine intervention, and the fact that this just reads like it is made for motion pictures/TV mini-series (of course, turns out to be actual TV series, so, uh, surprise?). Regardless, I thought this was just good old fun and it has been awhile since I have had that with a book. So, -.5 for my bad bits, +4 for being a treat. Now I just have to re-read my friends' reviews to find out what they saw that I just happily ignored... ...more Please Note : Review based upon book received from Amazon Vine in exchange for an honest review. I've read this book 3 times. My Plot Synopsis : A plane arrives at JFK airport in New York City \u2013 after landing, before it reaches the terminal, it stops in the middle of the runway and completely shuts down. Dark and dead. The air traffic controller is unable to raise anyone on the plane \u2013 there is no answer by anyone\u2019s cell phones. All the window shades are down. A baggage handler drives out to see wh Please Note : Review based upon book received from Amazon Vine in exchange for an honest review. I've read this book 3 times. My Plot Synopsis : A plane arrives at JFK airport in New York City \u2013 after landing, before it reaches the terminal, it stops in the middle of the runway and completely shuts down. Dark and dead. The air traffic controller is unable to raise anyone on the plane \u2013 there is no answer by anyone\u2019s cell phones. All the window shades are down. A baggage handler drives out to see what is wrong \u2013 there is no response, but suddenly one of the window shades goes up. Freaked out, she leaves. People converge on the plane, trying to get in, but the emergency entrance door over the wing is stuck. While they huddle under the plane, suddenly the door opens. But no one comes out. When someone finally looks in, they find a plane full of corpses. The CDC is called in \u2013 doctors Ephraim Goodweather and Nora Martinez suit up in complete HAZMAT gear and go aboard \u2013 to find that not everyone is dead. There are four survivors. While unloading the dead, Ephraim \u2013 Eph \u2013 notices that there are no flies. The dead are not decomposing like normal. Then, a day later, all the dead \u2026 disappear. What happened on that plane? Where are the dead people? And who is this strange old man who claims to know what is going on? My Review : Hogan and del Toro re-imagine the vampire mythos in The Strain Trilogy. These are not the beautiful, brooding creatures of modern myth - and they certainly don\u2019t sparkle. In fact, these are quite disgusting creatures, truth be told. The authors also tell a gripping story \u2013 moving at the speed of light while still managing good character and plot development. As of the posting of this particular review (you can read my very first review from 2009 on the Amazon site), I have read this book three times and it just keeps getting better \u2013 even though I typically am a fan of vampires, I can still appreciate a good story, even if they are the villains of the piece. Folks who enjoy a good horror story should definitely pick this up, especially now that the whole trilogy is available. The second book is \u201c The Fall \u201d and the third book, just recently released, is \u201c The Night Eternal .\u201d ...more This is probably a great book, if you\u2019re in the mood for it. I was not. I was not in the mood for a \u201cwhole new re-imagining\u201d of the vampire mythos. I\u2019ve seen plenty of \u201cre-imaginings\u201d lately, and that\u2019s not what I was looking for. Nor was I in the mood to wait until the second half of the book to see some action. I understand setting the stage, building tension and whatnot, but this was a little much. So if you\u2019re going to read this book, do yourself a favor; keep in mind that something mysterio This is probably a great book, if you\u2019re in the mood for it. I was not. I was not in the mood for a \u201cwhole new re-imagining\u201d of the vampire mythos. I\u2019ve seen plenty of \u201cre-imaginings\u201d lately, and that\u2019s not what I was looking for. Nor was I in the mood to wait until the second half of the book to see some action. I understand setting the stage, building tension and whatnot, but this was a little much. So if you\u2019re going to read this book, do yourself a favor; keep in mind that something mysterious happened on a plane and that vampires are involved. Okay, now turn to page 180 and start reading. I gave this book four stars, but that\u2019s really a rating of the second half. The first half was just three. Let me make it clear though, that this book is not slow. This is no \u201cThe Historian\u201d, which, as far as I can tell (having read almost 150 pages, and skimmed the rest), is a vampire book for people who don\u2019t like vampires, or action, or likeable characters. But love never-ending descriptions of the countryside, exotic (if boring) locales, and wish that someone like Emily Bronte had written a vampire book. Even the first half is interesting, and there\u2019s a lot going on \u2013 just not a lot of biting, slashing, etc. Okay, that is all. ...more On my very long list of genres I'll read, on the very bottom are vampires. I don't dislike them but very few bend the genre enough to make it stand out from the rest. No one will ever come close to what Matheson did with I Am Legend . What I did really like was that del Toro gave a reason behind the vampires. They came from somewhere right? He filled in the blanks on what made the vampires what they are. He didn't go back more than a few hundred years so you don't know how it all began but I'm ce On my very long list of genres I'll read, on the very bottom are vampires. I don't dislike them but very few bend the genre enough to make it stand out from the rest. No one will ever come close to what Matheson did with I Am Legend . What I did really like was that del Toro gave a reason behind the vampires. They came from somewhere right? He filled in the blanks on what made the vampires what they are. He didn't go back more than a few hundred years so you don't know how it all began but I'm certain he must get further into the history in the next instalments. Otherwise it's just a bunch of people and vampires trying to kill each other and that doesn't make for much of a story in my opinion. I can see where this would make a good movie. It had a lot of action and gory scenes. Probably a better movie than book. If you love vampire stories, then I recommend you try this one. It was written well. If they aren't your favourite, then skip this. Good but not much new here. ...more It's October, the happiest month of the year!!! Once I finish \"Elantris\" (which is, after a fashion, a zombie apocalypse story from the perspective of the zombies...), this book will be my second Halloween-themed read. ----- As it turns out, i wound up reading multiple books beforehand. But this was one heck of a book with which to begin closing out the month. Part zombie-apocalypse story, part vampire story, part epidemic story, this book is relentlessly dark and disturbing and left me feeling pa It's October, the happiest month of the year!!! Once I finish \"Elantris\" (which is, after a fashion, a zombie apocalypse story from the perspective of the zombies...), this book will be my second Halloween-themed read. ----- As it turns out, i wound up reading multiple books beforehand. But this was one heck of a book with which to begin closing out the month. Part zombie-apocalypse story, part vampire story, part epidemic story, this book is relentlessly dark and disturbing and left me feeling paranoid and distressed. As a good horror novel should. All the best parts are clearly the work of Guillermo del Toro, but sadly the sub-par cliched aspects courtesy of Chuck Hogan are also there. I'm reminded of the \"Frankenstein\" novels written by Dean Koontz & co., but I'm also reminded of the sequels to \"Willow\" which George Lucas & Chris Claremont wrote -- hopefully the next book in this series will be more like City of Night and nothing like Shadow Dawn . ...more When Abraham Setrakian was just a little boy, his grandmother told him about a story of a man named <---C>Jusef Sardu</---C>. Jusef was born with a disease that left him weak and having to rely on a cane to walk. You could tell when Jusef was near as you could hear the pick-pick-pick of his cane. While out hunting, Jusef's father vanishes. A search party is formed and slowly one by one of Jusef's cousins and uncles also disappear till only Jusef is left. Jusef finds his father's body as well as all of his co When Abraham Setrakian was just a little boy, his grandmother told him about a story of a man named Jusef Sardu. Jusef was born with a disease that left him weak and having to rely on a cane to walk. You could tell when Jusef was near as you could hear the pick-pick-pick of his cane. While out hunting, Jusef's father vanishes. A search party is formed and slowly one by one of Jusef's cousins and uncles also disappear till only Jusef is left. Jusef finds his father's body as well as all of his cousins and uncles bodies, near a cave. Jusef vows to kill the monster. That was eleven weeks ago. No one has heard or seen from Jusef since then. Till one day Jusef reappears, a changed man. He no longer requires the use of a cane and has become nocturnal. Abraham once had an encounter with Jusef. Now many years later, Abraham still can't get the sound of the pick-pick-pick out of his head. Present Day Something has happened at JFK airport. A huge Regis 777 has landed and is just sitting on the runway. All of the lights have been turned off as well as the shades and doors locked. A group of airport officials gather by the aircraft. As they are trying to figure out how to enter the plane, the rear door opens. They enter and what they find is cause enough to call the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Dr. Ephraim Goodweather and his team arrive. Inside the aircraft, it seems all two hundred passengers have dead but as Dr. Goodweather and his team are about to start removing the bodies, they find four survivors. The survivors have no clue about what transpired. The only clue Dr. Goodweather has at this time lies in the cargo area of the plane. There he finds what looks to be a coffin. All of the bodies have now been transported to area morgues. Before Dr. Goodweather can check out the coffin in more detail, it disappears. When Abraham hears about what has took in place at JFK, he closes up his shop and heads to Dr. Goodweather. He has something to tell him that he believes Dr. Goodweather will be very interested to hear about. For anyone who loves vampires, then you have got to get your hands on a copy of this book. Dr. Goodweather may seem like the silent quiet type but he is very intelligent and has a fighting spirit in him. Also beware old men who walk with a cane or you will find yourself at the business end of a very sharp sword. I dare you not to get sucked in. Guillermo Del Toro and Chuck Hogan are a dynamic duo. The Strain will leave you craving more. My only regret is that I finished this book so quickly and now I have to wait till next year for book two in this trilogy. The Strain is the classic story of good vs. evil. ...more Slick, very slick. A very efficiently calibrated commercial thriller--imagine a post-9/11 cross between 'Salem's Lot and the first third of The Stand , with liberal borrowings from Bram Stoker's Dracula . The back half in particular becomes a string of violent set-pieces depicting the rapidity with which the vampirism spreads over four of Manhattan's five boroughs. (Staten Island: free!) There's a semi-scientific explanation for the vampirism as a hyper-nasty virus, but like Del Toro's film Mimic Slick, very slick. A very efficiently calibrated commercial thriller--imagine a post-9/11 cross between 'Salem's Lot and the first third of The Stand , with liberal borrowings from Bram Stoker's Dracula . The back half in particular becomes a string of violent set-pieces depicting the rapidity with which the vampirism spreads over four of Manhattan's five boroughs. (Staten Island: free!) There's a semi-scientific explanation for the vampirism as a hyper-nasty virus, but like Del Toro's film Mimic that's basically a hook for the gory scenes. (The importance of subway tunnels to the plot may also relevant in this vein.) The borrowings from Dracula were so liberal, in fact, that it's one of the few things about this novel that I found annoying: Instead of an ship arriving in the harbor with all its crew and passengers dead, here it's a 777 landing at JFK, complete with a giant coffin in the cargo hold... and nobody says, \"Hey, this is just like in Dracula !\" Sorry, there are just times when I'm not good at suspending my disbelief. It all ends very much in media res , and it's clear that at some point the ragtag band of human vampire hunters that comes together over the course of the novel (the Van Helsing figure, for example, is a Holocaust survivor who first saw \"the Master\" feeding on his fellow inmates at Treblinka) is going to intersect with the three ancient super-vampires who appear very fleetingly towards the end, because \"the Master\" is a renegade kin of theirs... As I say, it's all quite entertaining, and I imagine it'll do quite well. ...more \"Dead Airplane + Solar Eclipse = Not Good\" This thriller of a read begins when an arriving Boeing 777 stops dead in its tracks on the runway with zero communication from within, and continues amidst the darkness of a solar eclipse with a virus from hell and \"Thriller\"- like zombies threatening to infect you with their disgusting oral stingers at every opportunity. Book One of this vampiric trilogy is action-packed with convincing characters and an interesting storyline. Definitely recommend if you \"Dead Airplane + Solar Eclipse = Not Good\" This thriller of a read begins when an arriving Boeing 777 stops dead in its tracks on the runway with zero communication from within, and continues amidst the darkness of a solar eclipse with a virus from hell and \"Thriller\"- like zombies threatening to infect you with their disgusting oral stingers at every opportunity. Book One of this vampiric trilogy is action-packed with convincing characters and an interesting storyline. Definitely recommend if you like this genre, but be forewarned, there are no hunky Twilight-types in this tale, that's for sure. (This was a last minute pick-up at B/N that I probably would have saved for October had I known how ghoulish the story....you may not want to go down your basement after reading!) ...more This book lacks absolutely all the qualities one might expect from Guillermo Del Toro. Eerie atmospheres, vivid imagery, moments of fearful anticipation, and anything resembling good story-telling are all thrown out the window in favor of a mountain of clich\u00e9s, a woefully obvious narrative, cardboard cut-out characters without a single believable thought or action, and 300 pages of exposition leading up to a sad excuse for a climax. Finished off with the fact that any moment which COULD HAVE con This book lacks absolutely all the qualities one might expect from Guillermo Del Toro. Eerie atmospheres, vivid imagery, moments of fearful anticipation, and anything resembling good story-telling are all thrown out the window in favor of a mountain of clich\u00e9s, a woefully obvious narrative, cardboard cut-out characters without a single believable thought or action, and 300 pages of exposition leading up to a sad excuse for a climax. Finished off with the fact that any moment which COULD HAVE conceivably been frightening was dulled down to laughter by the worst writing I've seen since Twilight, this is really not a book intelligent people should be paying 30 dollars for. If you want to read good, affective vampire-related horror, go read John Ajvide Lindqvist's \"Let Me In\" instead. ...more Der Klappentext verr\u00e4t ja nicht allzu viel, aber ich denke, dass die meisten wissen, dass es hier um Vampire geht. Um wirklich grausame, gruselige Vampire! Das Buch beginnt mit einem \"Es war einmal ...\", einer sehr alten Legende aus Rum\u00e4nien \u00fcber Jusef Sardu, die schon ein bisschen darauf einstimmt und Erwartungen sch\u00fcrt, was hier noch auf uns zukommt. Insgesamt l\u00e4uft alles etwas langsam an, aber da es sich ja um eine Trilogie handelt, fand ich es nicht so schlimm. Allerdings waren die technischen Der Klappentext verr\u00e4t ja nicht allzu viel, aber ich denke, dass die meisten wissen, dass es hier um Vampire geht. Um wirklich grausame, gruselige Vampire! Das Buch beginnt mit einem \"Es war einmal ...\", einer sehr alten Legende aus Rum\u00e4nien \u00fcber Jusef Sardu, die schon ein bisschen darauf einstimmt und Erwartungen sch\u00fcrt, was hier noch auf uns zukommt. Insgesamt l\u00e4uft alles etwas langsam an, aber da es sich ja um eine Trilogie handelt, fand ich es nicht so schlimm. Allerdings waren die technischen Details am Anfang, gerade was das Flugzeug, die Landung und die Vorgehensweise der Beh\u00f6rden betrifft, schon etwas zu viel. Da hab ich kleine Abs\u00e4tze nur quer gelesen, weil einfach nichts relevantes drinstand. Dadurch wirkt es aber auch sehr realit\u00e4tsnah und gut recherchiert. Vor allem auch die Charaktere, von denen es reichlich gibt, sind allesamt pr\u00e4gnant und ausgiebig beschrieben. Trotzdem hat es mich sehr schnell in den Bann gezogen, denn die Idee der Vampire ist hier extrem gut umgesetzt. Vermischt mit dem alten Mythos und neuen Ans\u00e4tzen, die mir anfangs zwar etwas komisch vorkamen, sich im Verlauf aber spannend entwickelt haben. Im Zentrum steht der Epidemiologe Ephraim Goodweather, der Pfandleiher Abraham Setrakian und ein todkranker, milliardenschwerer Gesch\u00e4ftsmann Eldritch Palmer. Das sieht sehr \u00fcbersichtlich aus, aber die Autoren geizen hier wirklich nicht an Figuren, die teilweise auch nur am Rande mit den Ereignissen konfrontiert werden und nur einen kurzen Auftritt haben. Sie ergeben aber insgesamt ein perfekts Gesamtbild, das den Leser immer weiter ins Dunkel f\u00fchrt, das sich in New York immer weiter ausbreitet. Dabei gehen die Autoren sehr genau vor und schaffen damit einen deutlichen Einblick \u00fcber die Charaktere, ihre Reaktionen, aber auch, wie sich die Katastrophe weiterentwickelt und ausbreitet. Auch wenn es bis zur H\u00e4lfte des Buches dauert, bis es \"losgeht\" - die latente Spannung, weil man wei\u00df, was passiert, steigert sich von Seite zu Seite. Vor allem in den Momenten, bei denen man als Leser mehr wei\u00df, als die Figuren! ;) Die Szenenwechsel und die Beschreibungen erinnern tats\u00e4chlich oft an Filmsequenzen, was sicher der Autor und Regisseur G. del Toro zu verantworten hat. Gest\u00f6rt hat mich das \u00fcberhaupt nicht und ich konnte mir alles dadurch wunderbar vorstellen. Ein paar Kleinigkeiten waren f\u00fcr mich etwas unpassend, was die Feinheiten der Vampire betrifft, aber ansonsten wirkt alles gut durchdacht sehr greifbar, als w\u00fcrde man es selbst erleben. Genauso, wie es in einem solchen Fall wahrscheinlich ablaufen w\u00fcrde. An manchen Stellen hab ich mich sogar ein bisschen gegruselt :D Fazit Der Auftakt zur Vampirtrilogie hat mir sehr gut gefallen! Einen Punkt abziehen musste ich wegen dem z\u00f6gerlichen Anfang und ein paar Kleinigkeiten, die mir pers\u00f6nlich einfach nicht so ins Bild gepasst haben. Insgesamt aber sehr gut ausgearbeitet und mit stetig steigender Spannung hat es mich begeistert und Band 2 wird umgehend folgen! \u00a9 Aleshanee Weltenwanderer The Strain 1 ~ Die Saat 2 ~ Das Blut 3 ~ Die Nacht ...more I have been looking for a really scary book in a long time, and YES I've found it. The whole atmosphere and the ambiance in this book, is what makes it so great. This starts with a really creepy airplane that just goes all black at the airport... I love the characters and the way the story builds. It really starts slow, and builds toward a great ending. You get to read the story from different perspectives at first, you get a great view of the virus that spreads and what it does to people. I'm so e I have been looking for a really scary book in a long time, and YES I've found it. The whole atmosphere and the ambiance in this book, is what makes it so great. This starts with a really creepy airplane that just goes all black at the airport... I love the characters and the way the story builds. It really starts slow, and builds toward a great ending. You get to read the story from different perspectives at first, you get a great view of the virus that spreads and what it does to people. I'm so excited for the next book, this book was GREAT to read. I actually scared me at some points. (So glad this was a buddy-read) If you like scary books or vampires, I would definately read this book! ...more Rese\u00f1a en espa\u00f1ol de Nocturna en mi blog: Click aqu\u00ed Very slow during the first half, It wasn't bad but I don't know if I'll continue the trilogy (full review soon)", "Title": "The Strain"},
