{"Comments": "Sometimes insightful remarks are made which are so reductive they have the power to diminish life even as they explain it. In 1939 Alfred Hitchcock explained in a lecture at Columbia University: \"We have a name in the studio, and we call it the 'MacGuffin.' It is the mechanical element that usually crops up in any story. In crook stories it is almost always the necklace and in spy stories it is most always the papers.\" Wikipedia elaborates: A MacGuffin is a plot device that motivates the characte Sometimes insightful remarks are made which are so reductive they have the power to diminish life even as they explain it. In 1939 Alfred Hitchcock explained in a lecture at Columbia University: \"We have a name in the studio, and we call it the 'MacGuffin.' It is the mechanical element that usually crops up in any story. In crook stories it is almost always the necklace and in spy stories it is most always the papers.\" Wikipedia elaborates: A MacGuffin is a plot device that motivates the characters or advances the story, but the details of which are of little or no importance otherwise. The element that distinguishes a MacGuffin from other types of plot devices is that it is not important what the object specifically is. Anything that serves as a motivation will do. This is one of the principal reasons why spy and \"mystery\" novels bore the living bejesus out of me,<---M> and alas</---M>, when I realised \"<+++>The Tenderness of Wolves</+++>\" was not, in fact, a cookery book as I had been led to believe, I found it was a \"mystery\" novel, a stone whodunnit in fact. The victim is murdered because of the big fat MacGuffin which in this book takes the form of a bone tablet which some guys think is valuable because it may indicate there once was a literate Indian society. So in this book people do a lot of following trails, which as this book takes place in the Frozen North are actual footprints in the snow. I won't give the ending away, but they do so much tracking they almost find the Woozle. I liked the chaotic flailing about which takes up most of the plot, it reminded me of two great Coen Brothers movies, Blood Simple and Fargo. But enjoying the bafflement of others only takes you so far. The other thing which bugged me about this book was The Historical Present. It's weird enough when authors write in the first person past tense but you can suspend enough disbelief and imagine (<---B>if the self-consciousness of reading imaginary narratives ever surfaces</---B>) that you are hearing a perfect recollection by the narrator.<---F> The Historical Present smashes this conceit</---F>. \"I am not gentle but he makes no sound as I clean the wounds with rubbing alcohol. He has his eyes shut. From the corner of my eye Parker seems to be watching us...\" That kind of thing. It's a strange idea - instead of the perfect recollection the perfect real-time self-description like you are on an advanced driving test - \"Describe your observations Mr Bryant\" \"In my rear view mirror I see a black Fiat Punto with a blond male driver and a woman with a leopardskin coat, can't see if it's fake fur but I am assuming so; now I am making a left turn into Cold Potato Street, avoiding the cyclist who has large earrings and is weaving slightly as his panniers are overfilled\". And finally - this book was famously written by a woman who suffered so much from agrophobia that she did not leave a wooden box measuring three feet by six feet by ten feet for over two years. So the book was written entirely out of research and imagination (she would poke her arm out of the box and friends would place interesting articles about Ancient Canada into her open hand). I like this idea a lot because after all, fiction is made up, and I have little time for autobiographical coming of age novels (except for Edmund White). However - if I look at the author blurb and I see \"John Weebblebeeble has been a lecturer at the Creative Writing School of the University of Do As You like, Minnesota for 37 years\" or I see \"John Weeblebeeble has been employed variously as a prizefighter, royal embroiderer, catamite, chef on board a nuclear submarine and private detective; John was born Stephanie MacGuffin and transgendered at the age of 31. He now lives in a community for the blind and limbless in Katmandu\" - I kind of get the notion that the latter's interesting experiences will make the better writer. Literature proves this prejudice nonsense, but it lingers. ...more For what it's worth, this is the first book I've read since I joined Goodreads to which I've given five stars. So, at the risk of gushing, I'm telling you to run, don't walk, to reserve this at your local library or buy it. The setting is the 1860s in Canada, where the small community of Caulfield and cabins strung along the Dove River sit at the edge of the great North Woods. The book opens with the murder of French-Canadian trapper, and that event unlocks several intertwined subplots among the For what it's worth, this is the first book I've read since I joined Goodreads to which I've given five stars. So, at the risk of gushing, I'm telling you to run, don't walk, to reserve this at your local library or buy it. The setting is the 1860s in Canada, where the small community of Caulfield and cabins strung along the Dove River sit at the edge of the great North Woods. The book opens with the murder of French-Canadian trapper, and that event unlocks several intertwined subplots among the people who live in this wintry landscape, dominated by the Hudson Bay Company. The sharp description of the landscape and lives of European settlers and Indians alike is all the more remarkable because <---A>Stef Penney</---A> was agoraphobic when she wrote this and was unable to visit the scene of her novel, instead doing all of her research from the safe womb of the British Library. This is also much more than a mystery, with finely drawn human portraits, stories of forbidden love and heartbreaking loss, all set in a time and place that is vividly evoked. If it were possible, I'd coin the term histery for this amalgam. When the trapper is found dead in his cabin, a young man, Francis Ross, also disappears and is the first suspect. His father hunts for him briefly, but after he returns home empty-handed, Francis' mother is determined to search for him herself, and to her own surprise, she ends up going off secretly with a man named William Parker who is half-Indian and who has just escaped from official custody as a suspect in the murder. The killing is the biggest sensation in the community since the disapperance several years earlier of two girls, who some feel died in the woods and were eaten by wolves, a story none of the experienced woodspeople believe, and a chapter of history that will make an eerie reappearance as the novel progresses. Penney is a screenwriter by trade, and part of the sheer enjoyment of this book is the movie-like pacing, with short chapters weaving expertly back and forth between three and four subplots (I'd be surprised if this isn't made into a movie at some point). Mixed into this cast of characters is a venal and paranoid Hudson Bay official, a utopian settlement of Norwegian Christians deep in the woods, a charismatic but troubled Hudson Bay officer who lives deep in the forest, a new Company employee who is trying to prove himself and trying to decide which woman he loves, and the mysterious man that young Francis Ross saw and followed after the murder. Penney's gift for language also elevates this above many a plot-driven mystery. At one point, she describes a narrow-minded resident of the village this way: \"She considers herself a well-traveled woman, and from each place she has been to, she has brought away a prejudice as a souvenir.\" Or this landscape description: \"As suddenly as a smile, the sun causes beauty to break out on this sullen plain. Beyond the pallisade lies a perfect landscape, like a sculpture carved in salt, crystalline and pure. Meanwhile we trudge through roiled slush and dirt, trampled and stained with the effluent of dogs.\" And near the end of the book, a description of the son's recuperation: \"It has been weeks that he has lain up in the white room, his muscles softening and his skin growing pale like rhubarb under a pot.\" A page turner with bonuses. You can't ask for more. ...more This book is directed at readers rather than thinkers. I can understand why people like it because there are plenty of wonderfully crafted moments, but the novel lacks focus and depth. I've read a few reviews that ooh and aah over the fact that it's a murder mystery wrapped in a love story hog-tied to a western deep fried in good ol fashioned wilderness tale, but I've always felt that genre divisions are a crutch for people who need the books they read to conform to a series of prearranged attri This book is directed at readers rather than thinkers. I can understand why people like it because there are plenty of wonderfully crafted moments, but the novel lacks focus and depth. I've read a few reviews that ooh and aah over the fact that it's a murder mystery wrapped in a love story hog-tied to a western deep fried in good ol fashioned wilderness tale, but I've always felt that genre divisions are a crutch for people who need the books they read to conform to a series of prearranged attributes. However, what people take away from a novel (or any work of art), as well as the baggage they bring, isn't something the author can be held accountable for. Though Stef Penney was obviously writing for a target audience based on her experience as a screenwriter (I don't like it when I can see the machinery turning), nearly every other review I've read drags in aspects of her personal life, giving them a disproportionate weight that colors one's appreciation of the narrative. The kind of gossip useless to any serious literary discussion. Aside from the pockets of wonderful writing scattered throughout, what I liked about this novel was the title. Wolves generally rank above snakes but below mice on the Wheel of Tenderness, but I liked the attempt to turn our thinking around. Those of you with access to the discovery channel know that wolves mate for life (a www ...), but that their lives are determined mainly by a constant struggle for physical dominance within the pack. Food is always scarce; most packs can only support one litter of cubs and any youngsters that don't belong to the pair at the top are killed out of hand, and even for mature wolves their main predators remain other wolf packs. If there is a tenderness of wolves it is characterized by a vicious, selective intensity focused ultimately on survival. Draw whatever parallels you please between the previous statement and people you know and love, or substitute wilderness for wolves. Where the novel runs aground is the arbitrarily neat division into four sections. Not only do they break the flow of the story, they feel forced, as if Penney was already thinking about where to insert the commercial breaks. At the beginning of 'Fields of Heaven' Penney introduces a number of minor characters that, while well-drawn, don't add anything to the novel, or contribute to it's resolution. Everyone in Himmelvanger is background noise except for Line, who didn't serve any real purpose aside from informing Angus at the end about his wife and son (simultaneously robbing the reader of a scene where Angus comes across his wife with Parker ). At the same time, all of the conflict built up in the first section between Knox, McKinley, and Sturrock is set aside and ultimately left unexplored like so many other plot threads. Sturrock and Marie in particular get robbed in this book; after building them up in the beginning, they spend the rest of the novel literally sitting around. Overall this book confused me, and not in a tantalizing way. I felt jerked around, as though Penney had started to say something, changed her mind, and then sprung mid-sentence in a completely different direction. ...more Set in the small village of Caulfield in Ontario during the winter of 1867, <+++>The Tenderness of Wolves</+++> tells the story of a woman's journey into the Canadian wilderness to find her missing seventeen year old son Francis, who has disappeared after a man, who was a friend of her son's, was found brutally murdered. First off, I don't know why the author gave the novel this title as wolves do not figure in the plot much at all. They are mentioned once or twice but that's about it! The plot was engagin Set in the small village of Caulfield in Ontario during the winter of 1867, The Tenderness of Wolves tells the story of a woman's journey into the Canadian wilderness to find her missing seventeen year old son Francis, who has disappeared after a man, who was a friend of her son's, was found brutally murdered. First off, I don't know why the author gave the novel this title as wolves do not figure in the plot much at all. They are mentioned once or twice but that's about it! The plot was engaging and compelling at the beginning of the novel, but for about 100 pages or so in the middle it suddenly got very slow and boring, but it did pick up again in the last quarter of the novel. I thought the location of the novel was interesting. I loved the setting and the vivid descriptions of pioneer life in the Canadian wilderness in the mid-nineteenth century. At times, the novel got extremely confusing! I loved most of Penney's characters but there was simply too many of them. I found it hard to keep track of all of them. I wished Penney had thinned these out as a lot of these \"extra\" characters weren't vital to the plot. I don't know why she included so many of these characters! She should have spent more time developing the characters that were central to the plot! Stef Penney wrote all of her characters in the first person so sometimes it wasn't clear which character was doing the talking! Because of this I had to go back and re-read multiple chapters to figure out what was happening in the story. Very annoying! The ending of the novel was very abrupt. There were TOO MANY loose ends. I desperately wanted some romance in this novel to balance the story out! (view spoiler) [ I wanted Mrs Ross and William Parker to add on the romantic feelings they were developing for each other. I wanted Mrs Ross to confront her husband over his affair and his treatment of their son and leave him! I wanted to know more about how Mrs Ross's relationship with her husband had fallen apart. I wanted to know Maria and Jacob's reactions to Moody's death. I wanted Elizabeth Bird to meet her aunt and her cousins. I wanted a final scene where Francis and his mother were reunited. I wanted to know what happened to Amy Seton. I was convinced she was one of the setters in the Norwegian village! I wanted to know how Mrs Ross had managed to leave the asylum in Scotland. Did they let her go? Had she escaped? (hide spoiler) ] This novel wasn't as good as all the hype made it out to be. I think Ms Penney should fire her editor. Jane Wood did definitely not do a good job editing this book! Good editing would have fixed most of the problems with this novel. But overall, I felt it was a good attempt at a first novel by the author. It was an interesting and mostly enjoyable read but it's a shame the ending is very unsatisfying. However, I would read another novel by this author. I think she has potential. Three stars! PS: If you want to know what Mrs Ross's first name is it is on page 170 of the paperback version. It's in the paragraph where she describes Parker's dogs :) ...more This is a frustrating novel on so many levels. It's one of those books you read where it could and should be brilliant, but suffers from an excess of trying to be too clever, hip and cutting edge in character development and writing technique. The POV changes constantly from first person to third person in a sometimes confusing, backtrack-several-paragraphs-to-figure-out-who-is-talking kind of way. There are far, far too many characters and storylines happening as well. This would be ok if each s This is a frustrating novel on so many levels. It's one of those books you read where it could and should be brilliant, but suffers from an excess of trying to be too clever, hip and cutting edge in character development and writing technique. The POV changes constantly from first person to third person in a sometimes confusing, backtrack-several-paragraphs-to-figure-out-who-is-talking kind of way. There are far, far too many characters and storylines happening as well. This would be ok if each storyline was distinct and wrapped up by the book's end. Unfortunately, they aren't, and it left me with a big 'ole \"WTH happened to ??\" by the last page. Lastly, this book tapped into one of my reader pet peeves - assigning present day moires within a historical context. I'm sorry, but I have a really hard time shallowing a gay fur trapper in 1860's Canada (a regrettable choice of words on my part, I'll admit). Then again, perhaps the only beaver he could access was the kind with silky fur and sharp front teeth, and he turned to men instead - who knows? Anyway, this book had potential, but it lost me in it's forced cleverness. ...more \"And so while my husband sleeps upstairs we pack\u2013and I prepare to go into the wilderness with a suspected killer. What\u2019s worse, a man I haven\u2019t been properly introduced to. I am too shocked to feel fear, too excited to care about the impropriety of it. I suppose if you have already lost what matters most, then little things like reputation and honour lose their lustre. (Besides, if the worst comes to the worst, I can remind myself that I have sold my honour far more cheaply than this. I can remi \"And so while my husband sleeps upstairs we pack\u2013and I prepare to go into the wilderness with a suspected killer. What\u2019s worse, a man I haven\u2019t been properly introduced to. I am too shocked to feel fear, too excited to care about the impropriety of it. I suppose if you have already lost what matters most, then little things like reputation and honour lose their lustre. (Besides, if the worst comes to the worst, I can remind myself that I have sold my honour far more cheaply than this. I can remind myself of that, if I have to.)\" As the nights are drawing in and the temperatures are dropping to the point that I needed to switch the heating on, this was the perfect book to get in the mood for the upcoming season. There are a few things that I could criticize about this book - like the holes in some of the sub-plots, anachronisms, the use of 20th century expressions and attitudes that detract from the 1867 setting - but all in all these are minor flaws. I loved this book. Not least for its writing: \"Sometimes, you find yourself looking at the forest in a different way. Sometimes it\u2019s no more than the trees that provide houses and warmth, and hide the earth\u2019s nakedness, and you\u2019re glad of it. And then sometimes, like tonight, it is a vast dark presence that you can never see the end of; it might, for all you know, have not just length and breadth to lose yourself in, but also an immeasurable depth, or something else altogether. And sometimes, you find yourself looking at your husband and wondering: is he the straightforward man you think you know\u2013provider, friend, teller of poor jokes that nonetheless make you smile\u2013or does he too have depths that you have never seen? What might he not be capable of?\" So what that the language doesn't fit into 1867? The same concept worked for Marty McFly... Anyway, just to clarify, this book is not about time travel. The Tenderness of Wolves is a mystery set in the wintry northeast of Canada between communities of immigrants and natives, where the murder of a local trapper and the disappearance of a local youth set in motion an unlikely turn of events. But it is not just a murder mystery. What I loved about the book is what some other reviewers found distracting - that it a number of subplots. There are stories of people looking for something they have lost, of people looking for their own way in life, of people trying to remember who they are, of people trying to make new starts. Some fail, some succeed. The subplots add a great deal of depth to the characters and bring to life how in a largely isolated small community nearly everything is connected. Ironically, for a story set in the freezing north, there is a lot of warmth; and for a story largely set in the wilderness, there is a lot of humanity, even though the stoicism portrayed by characters and the brutality of some of the events ensure that this is by no means a cozy read. This review was first posted on BookLikes: http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/... ...more The hero of this novel is only ever referred to by two names: Mrs Ross, and Mama. In their brief moments together at the beginning of the novel, Angus Ross never speaks to his wife, and she does not have a single good friend who knows her well enough to address her by her first name. She is reserved, polite and, as a married woman in these stifled Scottish, Presbyterian, conclaves in 19th Century Canada, almost invisible: when a self-important local figure demands, \u2018Is you husband in?\u2019, she note The hero of this novel is only ever referred to by two names: Mrs Ross, and Mama. In their brief moments together at the beginning of the novel, Angus Ross never speaks to his wife, and she does not have a single good friend who knows her well enough to address her by her first name. She is reserved, polite and, as a married woman in these stifled Scottish, Presbyterian, conclaves in 19th Century Canada, almost invisible: when a self-important local figure demands, \u2018Is you husband in?\u2019, she notes that \u201cAs a woman I\u2019m obviously not supposed to know anything\u201d. She appears to have little self-esteem, admitting that \u201cin fact long ago gave up the notion that I have any remarkable qualities\u201d. When her teenage son disappears in the aftermath of the murder of a local fur-trader, Laurent Jammet, she is for a while paralysed by indecision. Yet, from this unpromising start, she demonstrates that she is in fact quite remarkable: she shows enormous physical strength to drag herself through the barren Canadian landscape, not once but three times; greater mental strength to embark on the subsequent quests and to stand up to those trying to advise her against this. And towards the end, as the Cat & Mouse game to find Jammet\u2019s murderer reaches its conclusion, she puts her life at risk. But most revealing of all, it turns out she is not shy, just quiet. She does not lack self-esteem, she is in fact very funny and self-deprecating. She may still appear to be almost invisible but she misses nothing, particularly in the hubris of the numerous self-important men that she meets. She is deeply passionate, stifled through her current circumstances. Had she not been denied educational opportunity because she was subjected to a 19th Century version of \u201csectioning\u201d, she would have certainly achieved more in life \u2013 and yet she does not dwell on this or feel any self-pity. Perhaps this is for the best: beyond the end of the book, we know that she must go back to her husband, who will remain unaware that he is married to such a wonderful woman. ...more Whew! Is this book perfect? It does have flaws but minor. Yet it was hard to put down- blew the others I was reading at the start out of the water. And at points it reminded me of a John Wayne movie for the soap opera dilemma aspects of reoccurring crisis. Especially the movie \"Stagecoach\" when John Wayne becomes encumbered by a happenstance rescue of ladies and other dumb innocents within and from an unforgiving environment. So why the 5 stars? The 5 stars are for complete and galloping entertai Whew! Is this book perfect? It does have flaws but minor. Yet it was hard to put down- blew the others I was reading at the start out of the water. And at points it reminded me of a John Wayne movie for the soap opera dilemma aspects of reoccurring crisis. Especially the movie \"Stagecoach\" when John Wayne becomes encumbered by a happenstance rescue of ladies and other dumb innocents within and from an unforgiving environment. So why the 5 stars? The 5 stars are for complete and galloping entertainment. And this is her debut novel. Can you tell she is a screen writer! Superb mix of characters, more than 20 of them. Epic issues within distances of trapper \"Company\" Georgian Bay territory Canada. It's early winter and it's just getting worse and worse. Not only outside in the open either. I believe Stef Penney has covered nearly all the demographics for reader interest in this one. And she did it without foul language or politico preach speak for the length on top of it. It's long and there was a short bit about a third of the way through that dragged. But if you keep your mittens on, do NOT lose your compass, and remember to cover your eyes against white out- you will have a start with this one. Also you need to fire up and melt your brain cells to placement and name memory. Because there are many characters and for their number, they have depth. Different languages they may speak and absolutely different cultures of thought and action. More than three. Not all the Native Americans consider themselves attune to similarity. But the religions, the nationalities, the cultures, the crimes- they all twine into the plot. And the numerous sub-plots. Does it knot too thoroughly? What mish-mass results. How are the dogs and wolves involved? Is it a love story between couples? Are all the couples married? How many fall into \"like\"? Who knows how to trace patterns and track? How many locations do we track them to and for what reasons? Why, when the weather conditions and paths for these journeys are absolutely life-threatening? When is there a choice to \"stay\" instead? Read this one and find out. You might even discover what happened to those Seton sisters of 11 and 12 who went off to pick berries a decade ago and never came home. Or who is not just a soft push-over tenderfoot in the end. But does sadly share a fate of the hopelessly naive. Many posters reject the mixed writing style of narrator change. Mrs. Ross (those who count never know her first name) is the primary narrator. Other revolving chapters are third person narration. And although 90% chronological- you will still get that 10% flashback memory of something or some place that has gone on long before to clarify the picture or the emotion or the motive. Readers have taken out 2 stars for some of that stylistic formation. Not I. It worked sublimely here in knowing the motives and context quite far, far beyond the actions of the plot progression. Lyrical and cutting of phrase? Donald tries the poetic. And the sentimental. It's the wrong place for either, IMHO. Unless it is an Indian saga upon a motherly wolf. But it is the right place for this 3 or 4 month long tale. Lake Edgar, Himmelvanger, Caulfield, Dove River and all the \"Company\" stations in late 1867 Canadian territory come howling and creaking and chapping. They seem just as alive as the characters. Or NOT. There were several delicious quotes in each section. I can only pick a few. Or one, just a longish one before Mrs. Ross decides to track after her son, Francis. Here's one for the Chick Lit. readers: \"So that's how it happens: mutual need is what makes people cooperate- nothing to do with trust or kindness or any such sentimental notion. I don't really take in what he says about Knox and why he released him in this underhand way, but looking at his violated face I can believe that Mackinley has done it. Parker wants a rifle and food and his dogs, and I want a guide to follow Francis, and maybe he thinks Francis will talk more readily if I am there- Francis has something he wants too. And so while my husband sleeps upstairs we pack- and I prepare to go into the wilderness with a suspected killer. What's worse, a man I haven't been properly introduced to. I am shocked to feel fear, too excited to care about the impropriety of it. I suppose if you have already lost what matters most, then little things like reputation and honor lose their luster. (Besides, if the worse comes to the worst, I can remind myself of that, if I have to.)\" Don't think it's all in that vein. There is something in this book for the Native American anthropology interest, for the adventurer par excellence, for the mixed race multitudes, for the big \"L\" users (instead of the big \"H\" of heroin), for couples of the same sex, for the God doubters, for the rebellious and disloyal employee, for thieves, for murderers. And especially for the daughter who does not answer to her original name or blood father. It is somewhat adventure, somewhat thriller, somewhat suspense, somewhat a psychological study, somewhat murder mystery, somewhat \"what's it all about\" revelations- but almost entirely page turning. That's why I gave it a 5. Took me longer to read that two other books of the same length or nature. You need to reread almost every first 4 paragraphs of each chapter. Not to the whom, but to the what and where. But somehow that feature never once pulled me out of the Mrs. Ross motives/ connection to the whole. It was massively entertaining to read this in 98 degree heat too. It absolutely kept me cool. ...more Jacket blurb: \"Stef Penney is from Edinburgh and claims never to have visited Canada - IMPRESSIVE, then, that the land of her imagination convinces.\" I wish I had never read that. During the entire reading of this book that revelation rattled around in my head. Why didn't she visit the place where her story was set? In all fairness, Penney's portrayal was believable. But in my mind there is a lack of integrity to a book (fiction or otherwise) when the author doesn't experience what they are wri Jacket blurb: \"Stef Penney is from Edinburgh and claims never to have visited Canada - IMPRESSIVE, then, that the land of her imagination convinces.\" I wish I had never read that. During the entire reading of this book that revelation rattled around in my head. Why didn't she visit the place where her story was set? In all fairness, Penney's portrayal was believable. But in my mind there is a lack of integrity to a book (fiction or otherwise) when the author doesn't experience what they are writing about. I like my fiction to be well-researched and factually accurate as possible. Because of that little blurb, I wasn't able to read this book without prejudice like I would any other book. So, here goes my review anyway. The Tenderness of Wolves unfolds during the heyday of the Hudson Bay Company. It is a tale of the power that one company can assert on a people who are dependent on its existence. Trappers, an exclusionary sect, disappearances, trackers, an unknown written Indian language?, frozen treks, murders and lots of lies and secrets. What I liked: *I found the general story enjoyable. Penney plots out the story well; her writing style is easy to read and the characters interesting. *Although this book didn't blow me away, it definitely is a good first novel. *Since the Hudson Bay Company pops up throughout history in a favorable light, I liked that Penney portrayed them as the flawed, power-wielding company as everyday Canadians from that era would have seen them. What I didn't like and haven't already said: *I'm not a huge fan of writing in the present tense for this type of book. It shifts back and forth from a first-person present tense (Mrs. Ross) to third person for the many other narrators. I didn't care for so many narrators or the switching back and forth, especially since the chapters were so short. I rarely got to settle in on one person's viewpoint before it was changing to someone else. *This is quoted from Alec, a young Native American boy (to make my point): Donald was kind to his mother. Donald told him about his beautiful, clever aunts who live on a huge lake like the sea. Donald hurt no one. I hate this kind of thinking that authors put on non-white or non-American characters in stories. (Stef Penney isn't alone on this one.) In this case, Alec is a responsible Indian boy who has just taken on the role of man-of-the-house, so I can't imagine him thinking so lame-brained. What kid thinks in the terms of \"my beautiful, clever aunts\" or \"huge lake like the sea\"? It reminds me of westerns where the Indians all talk like \"Me, Running Horse, I scalp white man.\" I can see Stef Penney's novel being worth the read, I just hope it isn't written in present tense and that she steps foot on the soil of her next location. ...more Well it's 1:20 AM and I just finished this well written page turner. Would probably give it 4 1/2 for capturing my interest. When my book club chose this I didn't think I would like it because I usually don't read murder mysteries. However, I was pleasantly surprised. I liked the weaving storylines and plots and the way the characters were connected in what I was imagining to be a vast wintery wilderness. I also enjoyed the contrast of the first and third person narratives. I'm not sure I get th Well it's 1:20 AM and I just finished this well written page turner. Would probably give it 4 1/2 for capturing my interest. When my book club chose this I didn't think I would like it because I usually don't read murder mysteries. However, I was pleasantly surprised. I liked the weaving storylines and plots and the way the characters were connected in what I was imagining to be a vast wintery wilderness. I also enjoyed the contrast of the first and third person narratives. I'm not sure I get the title. Although it took me a while to warm up to Mrs. Ross (in the beginning she seemed kind of simple and mousey) but as the story went on I really admired her. I was pulling for her all the way. And...cuddling with Parker in the cabin for warmth...much better than...you know. I could feel it! I got a little confused with some of the characters and keeping them straight and I still don't get the Seton girls - can't wait to talk about this at book club. Were they both alive or only one of them??? I don't get it!? I was mildly disappointed in the ending. I wanted a little more. I didn't feel that everything got wrapped up well enough, but that could be because I'm always one for the fairytale endings, girl gets the guy, conflicts are resolved, etc. AND what the hell is her first name?? ...more This book received the Costa (Whitbred)Award which I find totally surprising. Certainly the book has all the makings of a great novel. But it is not. A host of interesting characters, a dramatic environment, a historical setting, even a murder mystery. Lots of interesting characters and criss-crossing paths. Yet it feels more like a soap opera at times than anything else. I think the choice of the author to give a first person voice to one character and then use third person all the rest of the w This book received the Costa (Whitbred)Award which I find totally surprising. Certainly the book has all the makings of a great novel. But it is not. A host of interesting characters, a dramatic environment, a historical setting, even a murder mystery. Lots of interesting characters and criss-crossing paths. Yet it feels more like a soap opera at times than anything else. I think the choice of the author to give a first person voice to one character and then use third person all the rest of the way through the book is a major mistake (in the discussion in the book she says Dickens did it in Bleak House so why can't I -- because he is a literary genius, that's why). Although all of the characters are interesting, the author gives us more insights into some than others. The result is a feeling that this was designed to be a Dickensian book but the author just wasn't up to it. I don't think you will feel that you wasted time reading this book and there are some wonderful passages about life in wintry Canada. But I wouldn't put it at the top of my list. ...more A historical mystery set in Canada, and featuring what are essentially the precursors to Mounties and gay characters. I really thought I was going to like this book. Instead, I struggled to keep up with its meandering pace and mostly unsympathetic characters, only to be confronted by a conclusion that just cuts out like the end of \u201cI Want You (She\u2019s So Heavy).\u201d I know that sort of thing is supposed to be arty and true-to-life, but is a little bit of closure so much to ask? Several plot threads a A historical mystery set in Canada, and featuring what are essentially the precursors to Mounties and gay characters. I really thought I was going to like this book. Instead, I struggled to keep up with its meandering pace and mostly unsympathetic characters, only to be confronted by a conclusion that just cuts out like the end of \u201cI Want You (She\u2019s So Heavy).\u201d I know that sort of thing is supposed to be arty and true-to-life, but is a little bit of closure so much to ask? Several plot threads are completely abandoned, dropped five or ten or fifteen pages from the end and never picked up again. Blargh. Forgive me, but I was reading to find out what happens, not to\u2026I don\u2019t know, muse on how mostly things suck and it\u2019s very cold in Canada. ...more Hoy os traigo un libro que me ha gustado much\u00edsimo. Una de las cosas que m\u00e1s me ha llamado la atenci\u00f3n es, que a m\u00ed me suelen gustar los libros con un ritmo m\u00e1s bien ligero, en cambio esta vez he disfrutado much\u00edsimo con La ternura de los lobos pese a tener un desarrollo pausado. Es una lectura que se disfruta sin prisa pero sin pausa. Estaba pensando qu\u00e9 aspectos de la novela empezar a destacar pero, realmente, no s\u00e9 bien por cual comenzar porque me estoy dando cuenta de que creo que todo me ha Hoy os traigo un libro que me ha gustado much\u00edsimo. Una de las cosas que m\u00e1s me ha llamado la atenci\u00f3n es, que a m\u00ed me suelen gustar los libros con un ritmo m\u00e1s bien ligero, en cambio esta vez he disfrutado much\u00edsimo con La ternura de los lobos pese a tener un desarrollo pausado. Es una lectura que se disfruta sin prisa pero sin pausa. Estaba pensando qu\u00e9 aspectos de la novela empezar a destacar pero, realmente, no s\u00e9 bien por cual comenzar porque me estoy dando cuenta de que creo que todo me ha gustado. As\u00ed que lo har\u00e9 aleatoriamente. Si comenzamos por la ambientaci\u00f3n, os dir\u00e9 que es muy propicia y adecuada para imbuirnos en la historia totalmente, ya que el crimen cometido y los misterios que se nos van planteando casan maravillosamente dentro de este marco helado que nos rodea durante toda la narraci\u00f3n y convierte la trama en m\u00e1s misteriosa y estremecedora. Nos veremos rodeados todo el tiempo por inmensos parajes helados y por peque\u00f1as poblaciones aisladas que nos resultar\u00e1n, en ocasiones, inquietantes. Por otra parte, los personajes me han gustado much\u00edsimo, pienso que todos est\u00e1n bien trabajados. Sobre todo el de nuestra protagonista, la se\u00f1ora Ross, ya que, adem\u00e1s, cada vez que toma la voz en la narraci\u00f3n lo hace en primera persona, cosa que el resto de personajes se nos presentan en tercera. Esto hace que nos sintamos aun m\u00e1s identificados con ella que con el resto, aunque todos los dem\u00e1s tambi\u00e9n nos resultar\u00e1n cercanos. La trama me ha parecido que est\u00e1 bien desarrollada pese a tener un ritmo algo lento, como he comentado al principio, pero yo no he perdido el inter\u00e9s en ning\u00fan momento, y s\u00ed estaba deseando avanzar en la historia para averiguar qu\u00e9 estaba sucediendo realmente y c\u00f3mo iba a terminar todo. Considero que la autora tiene un estilo narrativo de gran calidad, me ha gustado mucho su forma de escribir. En definitiva, una historia que pienso que roza lo sublime, con un lenguaje elegante y delicado, que mantendr\u00e1 nuestro inter\u00e9s en todo momento gracias a su trama y a sus bien perfilados personajes pese a tener un ritmo un poco lento. Algo que, raro en m\u00ed, en esta ocasi\u00f3n no me ha importado ni molestado. Mi puntuaci\u00f3n es: 8/10 ...more La historia que nos narra la escritora escocesa Stef Penney en \u2018La ternura de los lobos\u2019, nos traslada al a\u00f1o 1867, al nordeste de Canad\u00e1. Dove River es un poblado fundado por pioneros escoceses, en el que el trampero Laurent Jammet ha sido asesinado. Unido a este hecho, hay que a\u00f1adir la desaparici\u00f3n de un adolescente, del que se cree autor del crimen. En los inh\u00f3spitos y nevados paisajes canadienses, transcurre esta novela coral. Quiz\u00e1s la protagonista principal sea la se\u00f1ora Ross, la madre de La historia que nos narra la escritora escocesa Stef Penney en \u2018La ternura de los lobos\u2019, nos traslada al a\u00f1o 1867, al nordeste de Canad\u00e1. Dove River es un poblado fundado por pioneros escoceses, en el que el trampero Laurent Jammet ha sido asesinado. Unido a este hecho, hay que a\u00f1adir la desaparici\u00f3n de un adolescente, del que se cree autor del crimen. En los inh\u00f3spitos y nevados paisajes canadienses, transcurre esta novela coral. Quiz\u00e1s la protagonista principal sea la se\u00f1ora Ross, la madre de Francis, el adolescente sospechoso, cuyas partes est\u00e1n narradas en primera persona. La se\u00f1ora Ross emprende la b\u00fasqueda de su hijo en un duro viaje a trav\u00e9s de nieve y hielo, acompa\u00f1ada de los investigadores enviados por la Compa\u00f1\u00eda, encargada de impartir justicia. El resto de personajes principales, familiares, nativos, cazadores, son voces omniscientes, que nos ayudan a comprender y saber de la vida en este inh\u00f3spito lugar. De este modo, entre el misterio del crimen, un secreto arqueol\u00f3gico y secretos varios, tambi\u00e9n hay que destacar la introspecci\u00f3n de los personajes. \u2018La ternura de los lobos\u2019 es una novela bien escrita, con aroma de thriller , en la que destaca la condici\u00f3n humana sobre el misterio. Interesante. ...more It staggers me to see poor reviews of this novel. I suppose that it just shows the difference between people! I was given this book about three years ago, and such is my \"To Be Read\" pile that I've only got around it reading it now. Well, it was worth the wait. Although it took me some time to become absorbed by the story, I soon couldn't put it down. Penney's writing kept me interested. She can definitely weave words, and her recreation of 19th C. backwoods Canada has a really authentic feel to It staggers me to see poor reviews of this novel. I suppose that it just shows the difference between people! I was given this book about three years ago, and such is my \"To Be Read\" pile that I've only got around it reading it now. Well, it was worth the wait. Although it took me some time to become absorbed by the story, I soon couldn't put it down. Penney's writing kept me interested. She can definitely weave words, and her recreation of 19th C. backwoods Canada has a really authentic feel to it. Who cares if she never went to Canada? She has succeeded in creating an intriguing story set in a truly captivating world, peopled with multiple interesting characters. To criticise Penney because she didn't go to Canada to research it (as apparently happened) is in my mind nothing more than a form of literary snobbery. It's similar to saying that even if someone reads lots about a country and say, its political situation, they are not entitled to comment on it unless they have been there to study it first hand. Tosh. I haven't been to all of the places in my novels, yet I believe that I have created credible descriptions of them. I digress. I was interested by the number of characters relating the story (more than six) in The Tenderness of Wolves and also immeditely concerned that the story would suffer because of it. It's difficult to carry off so many characters, but Penney does it with aplomb. The tale hangs upon the murder of a trapper, Laurence Jamment. We see the effects this tragedy has on the local community, which of course has more to it than meets the eye. The plot makes intricate weaves and turns, making a deeply satisfying read. It's full of sharp and poignant observations of the human character, and I was sorry to reach the final page. That in my mind is the mark of an excellent book ...more My interest in this novel was heighted by two outside pieces of information: that the author was a screenwriter and that she had never been to the area north of Georgian Bay where the novel is set (and had been criticized for it). The first interested me because the novel is \u201ccinematic\u201d and written in scenes\u2014and moves forward at a compelling pace; the second, because I\u2019ve been decrying the place that research has assumed in novel writing these days and completely accept the author\u2019s counter that My interest in this novel was heighted by two outside pieces of information: that the author was a screenwriter and that she had never been to the area north of Georgian Bay where the novel is set (and had been criticized for it). The first interested me because the novel is \u201ccinematic\u201d and written in scenes\u2014and moves forward at a compelling pace; the second, because I\u2019ve been decrying the place that research has assumed in novel writing these days and completely accept the author\u2019s counter that this is, after all, a work of the imagination. The setting is tangible and immediate; whether it is \u201creal\u201d doesn\u2019t matter as far as I can tell. The Tenderness of Wolves is essentially a mystery which takes place 1860s Ontario, on Georgian Bay, a large bay to the northeast of Lake Huron. The action takes place in Caulfield on Dove River, a small settlement with no buildings over 13 years old, in a Norwegian religious colony and on a trading post of the Hudson Bay Company\u2014and in the snow-covered plains and forests lying between. A trader and ex-Company man is murdered in his house on the edge of Dove River and found by a neighboring farmer\u2019s wife. The plot is complex with many characters and basically follows the actions of those who want to find out who murdered Laurent Jammet. The only first person voice is that of Mrs. Ross, who woman who discovers the body and whose son is suspected of the murder, but most of the novel it not first person narration. The structure is interesting. There are four main sections, corresponding to the different settings and to the stages in the investigation. Within each section are subsections, using focusing on different characters. Mrs. Ross actually narrates the sections where she\u2019s the main focus, but you see her from the outside when she appears in the other sections. The other sections use a sort of Jamesian center of consciousness, with the narrator getting into the head of another character. One can easily see the influence of film. It\u2019s a complex plot with lots of characters and no real interest in the man who was killed except that the wrong persons are being accused. I found this a page turner until maybe two-thirds of the way through where it suddenly occurred to me I didn\u2019t really care about any of the characters. Nor did I care who killed the trapper since it was clear it wasn\u2019t the two sympathetic characters who were accused. Nor were they in any real danger of punishment for a crime they didn't commit. The role of \u201cThe Company\u201d that controlled the fur trade in British North America, in the novel and in the community, is interesting and Company men are generally bad guys, except Moody who \u201cfigures it out\u201d during the course of the novel. But that theme is generally ancillary and not really developed. (I was astounded when I first went shopping in Calgary years ago to find the main department store, referred to by initiates as \u201cthe Bay\u201d, was that same company which Wikipedia describes as the \u201coldest commercial corporation in North America\u201d. My assessment of this novel: the structure is near perfect, the setting is powerful, the plot is OK, and the characters are skillfully imagined but ultimately bloodless. Mrs. Ross, for example, narrates bits of her past in an insane asylum where she evidently was the favorite of a nutty doctor (made me think of the main character in Atwood\u2019s Alias Grace) but the background generates questions that are never answered. That\u2019s true with other characters as well. Perhaps the difference is that the characterization in film, which of necessity relies on snippets, isn\u2019t really enough for a really effective novel. ...more I am putting this aside for a couple of reasons. The main reason is that I get no sense of place and time! This story takes place in the 1860s in the Northern Territory. That appeals to me. But numerous times I had to flip back to the beginning of the book to verify the time period and location. I did not get a feel for either! Also, I was not thrilled with the short chapters each told from a different viewpoint or with numerous different characters. Again, I had to keep flipping back to get som I am putting this aside for a couple of reasons. The main reason is that I get no sense of place and time! This story takes place in the 1860s in the Northern Territory. That appeals to me. But numerous times I had to flip back to the beginning of the book to verify the time period and location. I did not get a feel for either! Also, I was not thrilled with the short chapters each told from a different viewpoint or with numerous different characters. Again, I had to keep flipping back to get some continuity. I guess that sort of format just does not work well for me. I was tired of hearing about how mangled and fetid the body of the murder victim was. I don't think I'll rate it. ...more I picked this up at Penn Station one evening when I was unexpectedly stuck in NYC. I couldn't decide which book to buy, and my boyfriend made the decision for me. (I think he picked it because his last name means wolves.) I started to read, and I was immediately struck by the interesting choice of having only one character in first person. The other chapters, though not in first person, are for the most part closely aligned with a single character. I could see why Penney chose Mrs. Ross for her f I picked this up at Penn Station one evening when I was unexpectedly stuck in NYC. I couldn't decide which book to buy, and my boyfriend made the decision for me. (I think he picked it because his last name means wolves.) I started to read, and I was immediately struck by the interesting choice of having only one character in first person. The other chapters, though not in first person, are for the most part closely aligned with a single character. I could see why Penney chose Mrs. Ross for her first person voice. I found her interesting and very easy to like and sympathize with. That said, I never fell for this book, but even then, it is more complicated. I've read a few other reviews, and one said that though the reader never connected with the novel, she kept picking it up. A similar thing happened to me. In so many ways, I felt like the novel fell short. Like some other readers, I was quite surprised that the novel was a Costa award-winner. I just didn't feel it was award-winning good. However, I kept coming back to it. I mostly read it on the train to and from work, and I would be disappointed when I arrived. In the end, though, I was just disappointed. The characters and story were interesting, as were some of the creative choices like the episodic structure and the choice to have one first person voice mixed in with the third person voices. Unfortunately, the writing was not on the same level as the the other elements, and in fact, the quality of the writing was a bit erratic. Some parts were far superior to others. Furthermore, as the novel went on and each chapter had its own mini-cliffhangers, I got a little annoyed. It felt like I was watching a TV show (Another reviewer mentioned a soap opera.) instead of reading a book, and the cliffhangers weren't all that exciting, either. Most elements of the mystery were way too transparent. Another big problem for me was the loose ends Penney left. I have no problem with loose ends on principle, but I just felt like she was leaving something open for a sequel. I don't want to feel that way about a book. Even with my reservations and my disappointments, I don't think that reading this book was a waste of time. I'm confident that most readers will not be sorry. ...more I appreciated the imagination it took for a British writer to convey the hardscrabble existence of life in remote northern Ontario in the late 1860\ufffds without ever having been there. The murder of a trapper and disappearance of Mrs. Ross\ufffd teenage son sets her, friends of the trapper, town officials, and representative of Hudson\ufffds Bay Company on various paths to resolve the mystery, leading different parties to carry out dangerous treks to distant settlements in the middle of winter. We get a nice I appreciated the imagination it took for a British writer to convey the hardscrabble existence of life in remote northern Ontario in the late 1860\ufffds without ever having been there. The murder of a trapper and disappearance of Mrs. Ross\ufffd teenage son sets her, friends of the trapper, town officials, and representative of Hudson\ufffds Bay Company on various paths to resolve the mystery, leading different parties to carry out dangerous treks to distant settlements in the middle of winter. We get a nice balance between the beauty versus the dangers of the wilderness and between independent human resilience and need to find trust and love with others. It\ufffds a little odd to alternate between the narrative for Mrs. Ross in first person and that for other key characters in third person. The Ojibwe (Chippewa) characters appear to me as rendered either as overly romanticized or mysterious. Still it\ufffds a satisfying quest of a mother taking risks to save her son and portrayal of the range of human motivations that drive people to good and evil in the context of a remote environment. The captivating title is a bit mystifying. I suppose that Mrs. Ross comes to feel awe and respect for wolves in her journeys somehow stands for feeling more apart of wild nature than opposed to it, which is reflected also in her growing affection and trust for the part Indian tracker who accompanies her. ...more First of all, let me make it clear.. I read the whole thing and I am still scratching my head in confusion. What begins as a mystery in a trapper's cabin in 1867 ends with me wrinkling my nose in distaste in 2010. Laurent Jammett is found dead in his cabin. His throat is slashed. A few things are missing. Whodunit and why? It takes 300 some pages and around 25 characters with their entire life stories, thoughts, and desires to answer that question. And the answer left me rather disappointed. I s First of all, let me make it clear.. I read the whole thing and I am still scratching my head in confusion. What begins as a mystery in a trapper's cabin in 1867 ends with me wrinkling my nose in distaste in 2010. Laurent Jammett is found dead in his cabin. His throat is slashed. A few things are missing. Whodunit and why? It takes 300 some pages and around 25 characters with their entire life stories, thoughts, and desires to answer that question. And the answer left me rather disappointed. I sat there and I said, \"All this reading.. two days of my life.. and he died for this?\" I failed to see what a lot of things had to do with the main story, or even the secondary story. Mrs. Ross's memories of the mental asylum, Francis and Susannah's brief \"relationship\", Line's sexual desires and whatever, the homosexuality angle, I expected all this to tie in somehow in the end, but a lot of it was irrelevant to the story line. These things had nothing to do with the murder. I did enjoy the parts about the long lost missing girls, but found myself disappointed that there are really no wolves in the telling of this tale. I don't really count the brief part in which it is suspected that a wolf ate a horse. And darn it, you would think they would have at least told us the heorine's first name. What is up with that last page? Two stars. ...more This is easily one of the most beautifully written books I have read in a long time. The prose, particularly when used in the first person perspective of Mrs. Ross, really drew me in. This combined with the very human nature of both the story and characters made them human. Being from areas near and similar to the setting in the book I was surprised at the author\u2019s ability to craft the feeling of the Northwood\u2019s in winter, and particularly the feelings I had as a child during my first experience This is easily one of the most beautifully written books I have read in a long time. The prose, particularly when used in the first person perspective of Mrs. Ross, really drew me in. This combined with the very human nature of both the story and characters made them human. Being from areas near and similar to the setting in the book I was surprised at the author\u2019s ability to craft the feeling of the Northwood\u2019s in winter, and particularly the feelings I had as a child during my first experiences with the intimidation that can be caused by the isolation and alien nature of the woods. This is particularly impressive for someone who has never visited a place of such beauty and isolation. I think Penney weaved beautifully issues of the human condition both modern and timeless in a way that felt real, and while there is no Hollywood ending the ending is better for being honest and true to both the characters and real life. ...more BEAU-ti-ful book! Highly recommended! More to follow.... I LOVED this book, one of the best books I've read this year. If only more books were written like this!!! This was the best book to read while there is a heatwave outside, as this story tells the tale of an isolated settlement at Dove River during a snowy wasteland with wolves. This book was a thriller/mystery and historical romance set in a less populated backwood of Canada. Told from different points of view that kept me reading late into the night. Since there where a constant change of poin I LOVED this book, one of the best books I've read this year. If only more books were written like this!!! This was the best book to read while there is a heatwave outside, as this story tells the tale of an isolated settlement at Dove River during a snowy wasteland with wolves. This book was a thriller/mystery and historical romance set in a less populated backwood of Canada. Told from different points of view that kept me reading late into the night. Since there where a constant change of points of view, it made me wonder where the author was taking me along the story. My only complaint about the book is that I felt it left things untied, made one wonder what happened to the characters, as what happened to them, but the author does mention this in an interview about ending a novel and that \"endings are never neat, because when life goes on, there is no end.\" Interesting but not for the reader!!! It's going to be tough to read my next book now, as I really loved being inside the world of The Tenderness Of Wolves. I hope Stef Penney is writing another book! ...more Outstanding debut novel from this Scottish author. Penney captures the voices, terrain, and myriad of cultures of the remote and vast Hudson Bay territory. The bitter chill of winter 1867 matches the chill of murder and suspicion that invades a tiny town. An excellent read! My sister recommended this during a Sunday afternoon phone chat. My husband found it for me at Sequoya Library just before they closed for the day. Finished it Monday night. Impossible to go slow \u2014 esp. being sick and doing nothing but reading. Penney is a screenwriter and lives in Edinburgh, the locale where many of the people in this story lived before they went to Canada where the story is set. Late in the 1860s in a small town in Canada, a semi-disabled trapper is murdered. A local woman find My sister recommended this during a Sunday afternoon phone chat. My husband found it for me at Sequoya Library just before they closed for the day. Finished it Monday night. Impossible to go slow \u2014 esp. being sick and doing nothing but reading. Penney is a screenwriter and lives in Edinburgh, the locale where many of the people in this story lived before they went to Canada where the story is set. Late in the 1860s in a small town in Canada, a semi-disabled trapper is murdered. A local woman finds the body and alerts the town magistrate who sends for representatives of the Hudson\u2019s Bay Company, the man\u2019s former employer, to investigate. Not long after, the woman realizes her 17-year-old son \u2014 a friend of the dead man \u2014 has disappeared, making him the prime suspect. Until an Indian acquaintance of the dead man is discovered at the murder site. Thus is set in motion an adventure that might have come from Jack London with its evocation of the struggle to survive out in the wilderness in winter. Who committed the murder and why is only one thread in Penney\u2019s tale of tangled lives. Dozens of characters weave in and out of the chapters, revealing new facets of themselves and deepening the mystery. Every character is a fully-drawn, nuanced portrait. It\u2019s noteworthy in a book with a number of female characters \u2014 white and Indian \u2014 that Penney never plays down their strengths, yet they don\u2019t feel like modern feminists thrown into a 19th C. setting. The young man goes in search of his friend\u2019s murderer. His mother and the Indian suspect take off after the boy. The Company men follow them. I must say there is nothing more perfect than reading about people searching, tracking, camping, getting lost, and bobbing and weaving in the winter in Canada as we wait for our own cold, endless winter to end. Unbelievable as it seems, Penney apparently has never been to Canada but I found her descriptions of the landscape and the weather formidable. Penney also had the right tone for every scene: She ranged from a dry, self-deprecating humor that one of the characters uses to describe her life in an insane asylum in Edinburgh, to an eloquent appraisal of the lives of the Indians after white men arrive and begin the big business of fur trading. A wonderful book that I hated to finish, especially since it appears Penney has only written one other. ...more It was the setting that drew me to this novel, but no matter how beautiful Stef Penney's depiction of the frozen wilderness of 19th century Canada, it couldn't salvage the book. From the beginning, this book read like the middling novelization of a possibly interesting movie. I found out later that the author is a scriptwriter so that might have something to do with it. The problem is basically indifferent writing and incomplete characters. The protagonist, Mrs. Ross could have been interesting b It was the setting that drew me to this novel, but no matter how beautiful Stef Penney's depiction of the frozen wilderness of 19th century Canada, it couldn't salvage the book. From the beginning, this book read like the middling novelization of a possibly interesting movie. I found out later that the author is a scriptwriter so that might have something to do with it. The problem is basically indifferent writing and incomplete characters. The protagonist, Mrs. Ross could have been interesting but I just couldn't see her at all. Her narrations in first-person couldn't merge very well with the rest of the book, in third person. There were far too many storylines fighting to be heard within the book and since they had more or less bland characters, you can't really get involved with any of them. The subplot with Line and the one with Francis and Jammet could have been done away with, or at least written better. Randomly inserting token homosexual characters is very tiresome. Is it so difficult to create a character who's both gay and well-thought out? Unfortunately Penney isn't alone in this. The Native American characters are equally uni-dimensional; you're just repeatedly told of the \"half-breeds\" and how alien and savage they are without attempting to give them real personalities. Kahon'wes had promise but he barely saunters into the story, and as little other than an alcoholic. Alcoholism was and is a serious concern in Indian communities, but Penney handles it clumsily - in her story alcohol seems to only induce Indians into making an Olympic sport out of knifing white settlers. Perhaps the author had good intentions but they just don't translate well into writing. I don't know if the author wanted to make Parker \"mysterious\" but the attempt has instead resulted in a potentially interesting character becoming yet another bland element in the story. Who is Parker? What moves him? What does he fear and what does he like? You get nothing. The ending was just plain lazy, as if the author couldn't wait to be done with the book and just added something vaguely philosophical to wrap it up. All in all, this would have been a better movie than a book. At least the nature scenes would be good. ...more Tenho de admitir que esta capa est\u00e1 lind\u00edssima! \u00c9 uma imagem t\u00e3o vasta e que deixa tanto \u00e0 imagina\u00e7\u00e3o... Li este livro para o desafio opcional da maratona liter\u00e1ria em que participei. Tenho a certeza que se n\u00e3o fosse esta raz\u00e3o ele iria ficar parado mais uns meses na estante. Fiquei um pouco desiludida comigo pr\u00f3pria por ter esperado tanto tempo para o ler. Mas tinha aquela d\u00favida: ser\u00e1 que vou gostar? N\u00e3o sou grande f\u00e3 de policiais, mas j\u00e1 come\u00e7o a apreciar mais e mais este g\u00e9nero liter\u00e1rio. A hi Tenho de admitir que esta capa est\u00e1 lind\u00edssima! \u00c9 uma imagem t\u00e3o vasta e que deixa tanto \u00e0 imagina\u00e7\u00e3o... Li este livro para o desafio opcional da maratona liter\u00e1ria em que participei. Tenho a certeza que se n\u00e3o fosse esta raz\u00e3o ele iria ficar parado mais uns meses na estante. Fiquei um pouco desiludida comigo pr\u00f3pria por ter esperado tanto tempo para o ler. Mas tinha aquela d\u00favida: ser\u00e1 que vou gostar? N\u00e3o sou grande f\u00e3 de policiais, mas j\u00e1 come\u00e7o a apreciar mais e mais este g\u00e9nero liter\u00e1rio. A hist\u00f3ria do livro inicia-se com o assassinato de um colono franc\u00eas em Dove River. Dove River \u00e9 uma aldeiazinha perdida no Norte do Canada, onde nada acontece. Podemos perceber o entusiasmo pelo assassinato certo?! Ainda por cima no s\u00e9c XIX! Ao longo das 500 p\u00e1ginas somos levados pelas plan\u00edcies do Canada onde a \u00fanica coisa que realmente nos fica na cabe\u00e7a \u00e9 a neve. Neve, neve e mais neve. Eu nem consigo imaginar como \u00e9 que aquelas pessoas aguentam tanta neve. \u00c9 um livro que gostei muito de ler mas tamb\u00e9m existiram partes que me deixaram um pouco frustrada... Por vezes as descri\u00e7\u00f5es adensavam-se e cansavam. A mudan\u00e7a do narrador confundiu-me diversas vezes e obrigou-me a reler o que j\u00e1 tinha lido para puder continuar. A tradu\u00e7\u00e3o tamb\u00e9m me chateou. A tradu\u00e7\u00e3o \u00e9 um pouco abrasileirada (desculpem a express\u00e3o!) e n\u00e3o gostei. ...more Wolves is another historical fiction account, taking place in the wilderness of unsettled Ontario, after the heyday of the Hudson Bay Company. This story has complex characters; the main narrative is in the first person, from a married woman who emigrated from Great Britain and settled with her husband, now with a teen son. She begins as a hard character but her softness is revealed throughout the novel and by the end, she is an extremely likable, and sympathetic, character. There are also chapt Wolves is another historical fiction account, taking place in the wilderness of unsettled Ontario, after the heyday of the Hudson Bay Company. This story has complex characters; the main narrative is in the first person, from a married woman who emigrated from Great Britain and settled with her husband, now with a teen son. She begins as a hard character but her softness is revealed throughout the novel and by the end, she is an extremely likable, and sympathetic, character. There are also chapters written in the third person narrative, from the points of view of her son, a representative of the HBC, an old magistrate of the town, and that man's grown daughter. All of the characters play into the larger and main plot of a murder and a disappearance, and all experience their own journeys. I almost always find it interesting to read about the culture of First Nations people, and there is a layer of that as well. I was surprised to read that this is Penney's first novel, as it is so well done with layers of narrative and plotlines and character development. Also somewhat surprising that Penny is from Scotland, not Canada, as this novel would be a great addition to a Canadian literature collection. ...more The cold snows of Canada seemed like a suitable place to be when the weather here is so wintry. Stef Penney's smoothly written debut novel is an engaging and pacy mystery set in mid nineteenth century Northern Territory. The solution to the crime is satisfying, but my main criticism is that the novel is over-loaded: there are too many minor characters, there's at least one sub-plot too many and there are motifs that Ms Penney seemed to get bored with: the tablet with the mysterious signs just go The cold snows of Canada seemed like a suitable place to be when the weather here is so wintry. Stef Penney's smoothly written debut novel is an engaging and pacy mystery set in mid nineteenth century Northern Territory. The solution to the crime is satisfying, but my main criticism is that the novel is over-loaded: there are too many minor characters, there's at least one sub-plot too many and there are motifs that Ms Penney seemed to get bored with: the tablet with the mysterious signs just got lost near the end, oh well, never mind, and although the idea of one main character who is also a narrator having a shameful past in an asylum was interesting, it left too many unanswered questions (how did she get out? What does her past have to do with the present?). Good, but needed editing. ...more My first review got entirely lost into the web ether so I'll just summarise this one: * a lengthy book but quite quick to read * enjoyable! * good background research (I did spot a few mistakes, but mainly in the Norwegian bits) * Norwegians! (I didn't know in advance!) * the plot draws you in and the nature descriptions are spot-on (amazing for an agoraphobic!) * a good murder mystery Warmly recommended! 18 November 2009 I just re-read this novel as I chose it for our book club for this month. Unfortuna My first review got entirely lost into the web ether so I'll just summarise this one: * a lengthy book but quite quick to read * enjoyable! * good background research (I did spot a few mistakes, but mainly in the Norwegian bits) * Norwegians! (I didn't know in advance!) * the plot draws you in and the nature descriptions are spot-on (amazing for an agoraphobic!) * a good murder mystery Warmly recommended! 18 November 2009 I just re-read this novel as I chose it for our book club for this month. Unfortunately I couldn't actually be there for the book club meeting, but I still wanted to read the novel. I liked it just as much the second time I read it, and as I had forgotten a lot, I found it just as exciting! ...more<---C>Stef Penney</---C>", "Title": "The Tenderness of Wolves"},
