{"Comments": "My favorite of the series. Meh............. 3.<---F>5 stars on this, folks</---F>. Review later. Okay,<---M> at the end of Quest</---M>, I just about died. WHYYYY, COLLEEN! WHYYY!! And now, we are stuck waiting until NOVEMBER to find out what happens with Ren and Kelsey! I mean thats..... *counts on fingers* FOUR monthssss! I think I'm gonna cry. Someone buy me some tissues! This is my favorite new series, and this wait just makes me want it sooo much more! So, in conclusion, Mrs. <---A>Colleen Houck</---A>, Please make it come out sooner! Pleasee! Like tomorrow wou Meh............. 3.5 stars on this, folks. Review later. Okay, at the end of Quest, I just about died. WHYYYY, COLLEEN! WHYYY!! And now, we are stuck waiting until NOVEMBER to find out what happens with Ren and Kelsey! I mean thats..... *counts on fingers* FOUR monthssss! I think I'm gonna cry. Someone buy me some tissues! This is my favorite new series, and this wait just makes me want it sooo much more! So, in conclusion, Mrs. Colleen Houck, Please make it come out sooner! Pleasee! Like tomorrow would be good! Sincerely, me and everyone else who just about cried at the end of the Quest. Edit: Due to my extreme obsessiveness over this series, I have found two poems that I feel will describe Ren and Kelsey for the next book, or at least their feelings. Geez this wait is making me go nuts! Kelsey's Poem: http://hellopoetry.com/poem/i-dont-remem... Ren's Poem: http://www.poemhunter.com/best-poems/pab... (the poems could work for both of them just as well, maybe even better, but Kelsey's was in the perspective of a girl and vise versa for Ren. They could even work for <---C>Kishan</---C>. Yeah, I'm kind of smitten hahaha) ...more Warning: spoilers if you haven't read the first 2 books! Okay, to all you who understand and share my intense love for this series, let me explain the rating. Because I do still love these books, and I did really enjoy this one, but after considering it, I just couldn't give it 5 stars. First, a positive: the adventure in this book is wonderful! I feel like this is the first time that it was so good that it eclipsed the romance(s) and relationships of the characters. I was fascinated by the journe Warning: spoilers if you haven't read the first 2 books! Okay, to all you who understand and share my intense love for this series, let me explain the rating. Because I do still love these books, and I did really enjoy this one, but after considering it, I just couldn't give it 5 stars. First, a positive: the adventure in this book is wonderful! I feel like this is the first time that it was so good that it eclipsed the romance(s) and relationships of the characters. I was fascinated by the journey to visit the 5 dragons and all Kelsey, Ren, and Kishan had to accomplish to retrieve the Pearl Necklace of Durga. I also really loved the dragons and the fact that everything was based just as much on Chinese folklore as Indian. That one of my favorite parts of this series - Houck's interweaving of so many different types of folklore into one series. I'm constantly astounded by how much research she does and all the planning she must have done before writing these books. Everything fits together seamlessly, and it's really impressive! That was my favorite part of the book this time around. Now, here was the rub for me: the love triangle. Don't get me wrong, I love a love triangle done right. The Bella/Edward/Jacob plotline in Twilight was great for me. I mean, my team lost, but that's become a thing for me - choosing the losing side of a love triangle. (I should join a support group or something...) Anyway, but I was excited in Tiger's Quest to see that Kishan was getting more face-time. I really enjoyed his character, and even though I loved Ren at the beginning, Kishan really won me over by the end. He was funny and charming and had less of a Superman-complex than Ren, which I often found a bit irritating. So when I saw that the love triangle was going to play a bigger role in <+++>Tiger's Voyage</+++>, I was excited. More Kishan! And I really enjoyed the interplay between Ren and Kishan, and their rivalry. It was funny in the last book. And I was pissed at Ren when at the end of the last book, he didn't remember Kelsey. And who was there to pick up the pieces? Kishan. I was ready for this all to come to a head in <+++>Tiger's Voyage</+++>. But what I found made me a little uneasy. The beginning started off good for me, with Kelsey and Ren arguing up a storm. But it was funny, and I've got to say, it was hot! Their best interaction comes when they're fighting. But I was disappointed in Kishan. He stood by and watched entirely too calmly. He lost a lot of his personality in this book. What we all loved in Quest - his cockiness, humor, and charm - were all but gone in Voyage. I hardly recognized him! And then the love triangle began to really take shape, and I've got to say, I was super disappointed. What we're presented with is Kelsey's connection with Ren and how all-consuming it is, and a Kishan who is the anchor that helps her keep her sanity. Kelsey soon has to decide which brother she wants to be wish, and she picks Kishan because he's stable...and we're led to believe this is a bad thing. I give you the following exercepts: I thought it would be easier, more practical, if I just picked Kishan. No, practical is the wrong word. Safer. That's the right one. Ren took risks. Ren surrounded himself with beautiful bikini-clad girls. [...] I know why he did it, but the fact remains that he still did. And if another opportunity to \"save me\" came along, he wouldn't hesitate. He'd once again sacrifice himself, and I'd be alone. I'd almost had the man of my dreams. But almost doesn't count. [...] Besides, who took care of me when Ren nobly let himself be kidnapped? Kishan. Who told off Randi when she was insulting me? Kishan. Who lets me wear my hair the way I want to? Kishan. Who said he'd be willing to let me be with another if that's what I really wanted? Kishan. Who never argues with me? Kishan. Who kepts his hands off when I asked him to? Kishan. (p. 454-455) And this one, which really tipped me over the edge... He [Kishan] protected me from the relationship roller coaster ride that was Ren. I loved Kishan, and I believed I could be happy with him, but I also had to acknowledge that it wasn't exactly the same. Ren's love was an all-consuming fire, but Kishan was more like...a space heater. Comfortable, steady, reliable. Both kept me warm, but one could burn me. Singe me to ashes. If Kishan left me, I would cry. I would hurt, but I would move on, sadder but wiser. Loving Ren was like loving an atom bomb. When he went off, and it was just a matter of time before he did again, he would destroy everything around in a ten-mile radius. Of course, I always managed to be standing in the middle of the bull's-eye. Shrapnel had mangled my heart. Twice. Kishan tried to pick up the pieces and hold them together by sheer will, but there were gaps. Pieces were missing. [...] I had to pick between the consuming love of Ren that I was so desperate for I sometimes forgot to breathe, and the steady glow, the endless kindness and comfort that Kishan offered me. (p. 433-434) We all know Kelsey will end up with Ren on the last page of the last book. It's a given. But Voyage left me wondering if Kelsey was crazy. Why does she love Ren more?! And this was where I was left with a bit of a bad taste in my mouth. Houck presents us with Kelsey and Ren's relationship, one which follows the common theme of paranormal romances, in which their love is literally the only thing that keeps them alive. Ren even declares that Kelsey is the purpose of his existence. I'm sorry, but if your significant other is the purpose of your existence, your life must be really pathetic. And, sure, that type of love makes for a really good, dramatic story. Why has \"Romeo and Juliet\" survived for so long (other than it's great one-liners)? Because it's a powerful love story of two individuals who were so in love that they couldn't survive without it. But how many people in the real world want this type of relationship? Umm...no thanks. To me, Kishan represented a healthy sort of love. He was supportive and devoted, but he had other things going on in his life. He didn't practically worship at Kelsey's feet like Ren did. And while Kelsey was attached to him, she could think of other things when he was around. As opposed to her relationship with Ren, which is practically a drug. It was all very teenage angsty and annoying. And this was what kept me from giving this book 5 stars. I'm just not with Houck on portraying this type of all-encompassing, obsessive sort of love to teens, who already think everything is the end of the world. It reminded me too much of Bella's willingness to kill herself when Edward left. While Kelsey isn't as bad as Bella, she's still tempted by that connection with Ren that will make her lose herself. And because I'm positive that she and Ren will end up together, I'm a little miffed. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe their love with tone down a bit. Maybe she'll even pick Kishan in the end. ...but I doubt it. Am I the only one that thinks the relationship Kelsey and Ren share is not only not normal but not healthy? It took me almost a week to get through this book because I was disappointed. And even though I adored the adventure and the mythology, and did like some of the romance, I just was a little uncomfortable with the turn the story took and some of the themes. Am I crazy for thinking this? What is everyone else's thoughts? ...more First opinion after finish reading: Zero star for bastardizing Hindu and Chinese myths, taking mythical figures out of context, giving them entirely unrealistic backstories and twisting them into some unrecognizable creatures. Negative star for giving untrue and unreliable information about foreign myth and culture to the audience. The silly, *unbearable* love triangle and the childish, airhead 'heroine' also got a big thumb down from me. I'm equally not amused by the fact that almost every single First opinion after finish reading: Zero star for bastardizing Hindu and Chinese myths, taking mythical figures out of context, giving them entirely unrealistic backstories and twisting them into some unrecognizable creatures. Negative star for giving untrue and unreliable information about foreign myth and culture to the audience. The silly, *unbearable* love triangle and the childish, airhead 'heroine' also got a big thumb down from me. I'm equally not amused by the fact that almost every single man in the story seems to be in love/lust with our Mary Sue 'heroine'. detailed rant starts from here: After finished reading Tiger's Voyage, I know I have a bone to pick with its creator: Colleen Houck. After suffering three books, now I think the only way for this series to work out well is for the whole setting to be pushed back into the ancient India, just so that the whole idea about princes got turned into animals by evil doers, girls being chosen to break the curse and goddesses came down to chat with mortals can be passably viewed as \"normal\". But you can hardly do all these things in the * modern* American society and the *modern* Indian society and expects us to swallow the whole thing down without any skepticism. Not when the whole idea isn't even finely excised. But of course Houck wouldn't have it that way. For one thing, if the story takes place in ancient India, then the heroine has to be an Indian or at least, an Asian girl as well, for how likely could you find a Westerner girl in the ancient India anyway? And I also think I know why Houck wouldn't have it: (a) she isn't able to write an Asian girl as a heroine. Because an empty-headed, immature American teenage girl is much, much easier to write. (b) Putting the story back to ancient India would request a lot and a lot of research on historical details, which I'm sure wouldn't sit well with Houck. Just for the record. After reading three books, I had a burning question awaited some answer: Question: Has Colleen Houck ever set one foot upon India before, during, after she wrote the Tiger series? I strongly suspect that the answer to this question is 'No'. Or maybe she did visit India at some point, but her ability of observation is so BAD that a lot of things about India--the country, the people, the society and even the weather , simply escape her notice. Why would I say that? Let me give you an example here: In book 1, Kelsey visited India for the first time, and she never mentioned seeing any poor people, or one single beggar on the street. I'm sorry? No poor people and no beggar in sight? It's not realistic for the poors to be nowhere in sight in India. As sad as it sounds, beggars are part of the scenery in every single Indian city, town and spot of tourist attraction, and everywhere you go, sign of poverty always shows up at the corners of your eyes. But no, Kelsey made it sound like every single person who lived in India was rich or at the very least, middle class. Plus, I hate it very much that the 'good' princes never lifted a finger to help the poors and misfortunes in India with their wealth. My freaking goodness! Not only this, Kelsey barely made comment on how hot the weather is in India, and not once did she seem to notice the social barriers between men and women. I admit all of these are just small details, but after seeing Houck failed to handle all of these small details well, her books become very unrealistic in my eyes. After asking my question, now I will go down to the rant. I need to list down everything I HATE about Tiger's Voyage. Here we go. 1.The unbearable 'heroine' and her stupid, unrealistic love interests Throughout the three books, Kelsey acted like an airhead teenager, and I see no improvement or character growth in sight. And yes, Kelsey is a big fat Mary Sue too. Aside from the two handsome princes who were totally in love with her, every single man in the series--even the ARCH VILLAIN, is also in love/lust with her. And in book 3, even the *male* dragons seem to like her, for no good reason. Plus, Houck, along with the two princes, keep telling me how brave and wonderful Kelsey is though out the book, but sadly all I can see is Kelsey having to be rescued constantly, and almost every risky task is performed by the two tiger brothers, instead of our GREAT BRAVE KELSEY. Talking about the two tiger brothers. Ren continues to be a cardboard cutout Prince Charming, who rants about Kelsey cutting off her hair. Oh yes, he doesn't like her short hair. But It's her hair and she can do whatever she feels like, for goodness' sake! Kishan is slightly better than Ren, but for the life in me, after so many books I still can't see why he is in love with Kelsey. Full Stop. 2. The horrible love triangle In book 3, Ren somehow lost his memory to Kelsey and and he subconsciously wanted to stay away from her. My reaction is: \"REN! IF YOUR SUBCONSCIOUSNESS IS TRYING TO TELL YOU SOMETHING, LISTEN TO IT! IT IS FOR YOUR OWN GOOD!!!\" After Ren's losing his memory, a huge part of the book is taken up by Kelsey moving back and froth between Kishan and Ren, and Ren being jealous of Kishan or some random guy who was interested in Kelsey. We run repeatedly to the old problem: Every single man wants Kelsey, no kidding. even the bad guy wants to bed her. YUCK! In the middle of the mess, Ren went all \"Let's break up with Kelsey for her own good!\"---all Edward Cullen's style! Fucking hell! Give me a fucking break! This \"I'm-ditching-you-for-your-own-good\" BS is annoying as hell! When I was turning the last twenty pages of the book, it was confirmed that Kelsey didn't lift a finger to do any difficult task, she never had to take any risk because the tiger brothers would do all her bidding for her. WHAT HAD THE BROTHERS EVER DONE WRONG IN THEIR MISERABLE PAST LIVES TO DESERVE THIS!? 3. Total bastardization of the Hindu and Chinese myths After reducing Warrior Goddess Durga into a lame Disney style of a fairy godmother (I mean, the Goddess never lifted a finger to punish the evil doers, for crying out loud!). Colleen Houck continues to butcher the Hindu myth in Tiger's Voyage. But this time the Hindu myth isn't her only victim, the Chinese traditional myth also suffers, just as badly. First, let me tell you about what had happened to the good ol' Hindu myth. At one point, a character tells a 'myth' about Shiva, Pravati and Indra in a love triangle . WHAT!? WHAT? WHAT? WHERE DID THIS 'MYTH' COME FROM!? Just for the record, I had never came across with a tale about Indra, or any male deity messing about with Pravati. The point is according to Hindu myth, NO ONE MESSES WITH PRAVATI OR THEY WILL SUFFER SHIVA'S WRATH. That's it. Just for the record, there is a myth about Rama's wife Sita being kidnapped by a Demon King, who fell in lust with Sita, but this myth is about Rama and Sita, not about Pravati, Shiva and Indra. Also, according to Houck, Shiva ordered his 'servant' Nandi to transform into a shark for one stupid reason or the other. But she never bothers to tell you Nandi is in fact Shiva's cow in the myth. Nandi, you're so ruined. Colleen Houck also has the gut to claim that Pravati is the other name of Durga. I'm sorry, isn't it the other way around? That Durga is the other name of Pravati? That Durga is Pravati's warrior form? And why it's never mentioned that Durga became Kali when she was enraged during a great battle with a demon? And why, for three whole books, no one ever mentioned the belief about Pravati, Durga and all the other goddesses are in fact one and the same, Devi? But at least I have to give a small credit to Houck for mentioning the Hindu goddesses and their ever-changing appearance, personalities and moods are not very different from what mortal women are being. Secondly, let's move on to see what had happened with the Chinese myth. At one point of the story, a Captain told Kelsey of a supposed Chinese myth about Jingwei. The Captain claimed that Jingwei was once a woman, whose husband drowned at sea, after the death of her husband, the woman became a bird out of grief. Well, I have to tell you Houck had the details all wrong here. Every single 10 years old Han Chinese kid who had read Chinese Myths For Kids can tell you the correct version of the myth: Jingwei was once the daughter of Emperor Yandi, who was drowned as a young girl, after her death, her spirit transformed itself into a bird. (More details about the myth of Jingwei: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jingwei ) I am serious, every single 10 years old Han Chinese kids knows the story of Jingwei, and I bet everyone who had bothered enough to pick up a Beginners' Guide To Chinese Mythology and read, would also know the story. So tell me Houck, how could you mess this up so badly? 4. All the messed up little details... (a) Indians celebrate a Chinese festival. Are you for real? At one point, Ren and Kishan took Kelsey to attempt a festival, which Houck called it 'Stars Festival', claiming it's a festival imported from China during the ancient period, and had been celebrated by the Indian general public ever since. I died a little when I saw this wild claim. I know this supposed Star Festival well, in China we called it Double Seventh Festival, aka Chinese Valentine's Day ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_S... ). The Festival celebrates the yearly union of The Weaver Girl and The Cowherd, two figures in the Chinese myths, who were only allowed to meet each other once a year at the night of the seventh day of the 7th lunar month. I also know that only Chinese, Japanese and Koreans celebrate Double Seventh Festival , as to the Indians, this Festival isn't part of their traditional calendar. Just to be on the safe side, I also looked up the Wiki's list of Hindu Festivals ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_... ), only to confirm that there's no such thing as believers of Hinduism celebrating a festival imported from China, which is related to stars. I find it truly disgusting, for what Houck had committed here isn't some slight mistake or misunderstanding. People, listen up. Colleen Houck is feeding you untrue information about foreign culture and myths here. She made things up, presenting her make-believes as facts and feeding them to her readers. She lies . From this point onward I know that everything she wrote in her books are not to be trusted, not without a double check. To be frank, I had never encountered an 'author' who is so SHAMELESS and DISRESPECTFUL before. (b) mention of cheongsam...but something doesn't look right Plus, during the festival; Kelsey was dressed up in a blue cheongsam. According to Houck's description, Kelesy was being dressed like the following photo during a festival: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia... Most likely it's the type of Cheongsam you would only see in seedy nightclubs and pervert's wetdreams. *facepalms* This cheongsam business also leads me to another messed up little detail... (c) Ren and Kishan's mother...a supposed cheongsam-wearing Chinese woman from 300 years ago? First thing, let me tell you what cheongsam used to look like from 300 years ago, I took the picture from Wiki: So, I don't think Ren and Kishan's mother would be comfortable wearing clothes like this when she lived in India. When I was reading book 1 and book 2, the thought about Ren and Kishan's mother being Chinese/Korean/Japanese never crossed my mind. But when Houck mentioned about Ren's mother celebrating Double Seventh Festival and dressed herself in cheongsam even after being married to Ren and Kishan's father, I was finally forced to realize Colleen Houck has intended Ren's mother to be a Chinese born woman. That's where the problem began. Before that, I never thought that Ren's mother was supposed to be Chinese, because her name sounded barely anything like a Chinese name, allso because Colleen Houck had mentioned that Ren had blue eyes, and Kishan's eyes are golden. What? How come a Chinese mother and an Indian father can produce a son with BLUE EYES!? I guess the chance of it is very, very slim. 5. The dragons Houck's dragons are...in one word, laughable. They're comical laughing stocks. I suggest you to see for yourself, I don't even want to bother with them here. And of course, powerful beings such as dragons can only be *male*, since women aren't supposed to be powerful, even supposedly powerful women like Durga, actually did nothing aside from sitting there smiling and be beautiful. Actually I have more things to say, but this rant is getting ways too long, I will stop it here. Thank you for reading, folks. ...more 2.5 This review contains unmarked spoilers , and will be redone soon. It hurts my heart to write this review, but it must be done. TIGER'S VOYAGE ruined my complete view of the series, and you're about to learn why. I used to be obsessed with this series. It was my first paranormal romance young-adult, and I credit this book for introducing me to the genre. Gradually, as I read more books, I learned the series wasn't as good as I originally though, but I still liked it. However, in this book, Kelsey 2.5 This review contains unmarked spoilers , and will be redone soon. It hurts my heart to write this review, but it must be done. TIGER'S VOYAGE ruined my complete view of the series, and you're about to learn why. I used to be obsessed with this series. It was my first paranormal romance young-adult, and I credit this book for introducing me to the genre. Gradually, as I read more books, I learned the series wasn't as good as I originally though, but I still liked it. However, in this book, Kelsey is - if possible - more annoying, stupid, and boring than ever. She's a damsel-in-distress, in the most pathetic way possible. She almost dies because she hits her head on a rock . All because a harmless eel swims past her and she freaks the freak out. There was no use for the scene except to make the boys fight over her more. WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU, KESLEY? I can go on and on about this shallow girl. What do Kishan and Ren see in her in this book? She's always talking or laughing to herself (when she's not even faintly amusing, mind you) or thinking PARAGRAPHS - long, detailed, dull paragraphs that clarified that somewhere in her tiny brain, a screw is loose. Seriously. And all she does is moan and groan and bitch about who she's gonna chose . . . Ren or Kishan, her moon and her shadow, her bad boy and her good boy, her first love and her replacement... I liked Kishan better then Ren, but he lost the his badboy-appeal and his hilarious perverted comments, just to change for Kelsey. Ever heard of the original LITTLE MERMAID, Kishan? Changing herself for the prince she was biggest mistake the mermaid ever made. I still love Kishan, though. In this book, Ren is selfish, possessive, cruel, and annoying. This \"connection\" he has with Kelsey annoys me to no end. TIGER'S VOYAGE contains about one hundred pages on details. Useless descriptions of yachts, plants, bathrooms, Ren... what not. Lord, if you think we needed the serious background info, just give us a link. I thought I was reading a young adult PNR, not my dad's marine mechanic log. I know Kadam likes all things modern, but give me a break. I was falling asleep. The writing is so detailed and flowery I'd choke on it if it was a perfume. The plot was fine, though I preferred TIGER'S QUEST. The romance was terrible. I mean, we all know Kelsey is going to end up with Ren. It's so obvious. You can spare us the idiotic love triangle and get on with her quest, 'cause we all know her \"love for Kishan\" won't be enough\". Please stop. You're going to hurt Kishan. ...more Tiger\u2019s Voyage captured my heart, ensnared my soul, and left me breathless and so so in love. I love this book, this series, with a passionate, heart soaring, brilliant love that consumes me, and I become so invested in the story and Kelsey and Ren and Kishan\u2019s lives that their pain is my pain, their love my love, and I dread the end, because it means I must finish this part of their story, and wait, and wait, for the next part. And Colleen Houck doesn\u2019t give you a happy, perfect ending to stay Tiger\u2019s Voyage captured my heart, ensnared my soul, and left me breathless and so so in love. I love this book, this series, with a passionate, heart soaring, brilliant love that consumes me, and I become so invested in the story and Kelsey and Ren and Kishan\u2019s lives that their pain is my pain, their love my love, and I dread the end, because it means I must finish this part of their story, and wait, and wait, for the next part. And Colleen Houck doesn\u2019t give you a happy, perfect ending to stay your anxiety, no, she, the evil witch she is, slams the worst of cliffhangers into your face, and you turn the last page to find it blank, and you\u2019re so desperate to find out what happens, but that\u2019s it. That\u2019s the ending, and you must wait, for eternity , to find what happens next. For this reason, I hate her. And yet I love her because she writes such a fantastic story with possibly my favorite romance that I have read. And that is because of Ren. The drop dead gorgeous, tall dark and handsome, Indian Prince of ultimate perfection. Not that he doesn\u2019t have his faults, because he does, but there is no man who has me swooning more, than he. I loved how dragons were incorporated into the story. That Kelsey and her two tigers had to find five dragons that would eventually lead them to Durga\u2019s Necklace, which would bestow upon Ren and Kishan more time that they can be humans. Each of the dragons were unique and interesting. I thought the development and execution of the plot was excellent. There was adventure and danger and fantasy and heart stopping romance and laughter. One of my favorite parts was when the trio met the dragon that wanted to play a game with them that turned out to be like an old fantasy story with knights and dragons and princesses. I thought it was fantastic ;) Now the romance. Oh my, the romance! Never has any romance been so sweltering hot and swooning inducing than what goes on between Ren and Kelsey. Every time Ren stepped onto the page and said something, or did something, or kissed or touched Kelsey, or Houck described what he was wearing , I was swooning, and falling for him hard. Which was like every other page. And he\u2019s not even real! Yeesh Erica, get a grip. He is my dream man, next to Apollus in the Tennis Shoe Series , and all my classic men crushes. (If I had to choose between Ren and Apollus, I don\u2019t know who I would choose. Because Apollus, strapping young Roman soldier with a strong spirit and so incredibly good looking, come on!) *pause as I fan myself from all the hotness going on here* [image error] Anywho, where was I? I also like Kishan in this novel. I liked him more in Tiger\u2019s Quest, where he was more himself: roguish, charming, bad boy that he is. In Tiger\u2019s Voyage his personality is watered down some, but I think he\u2019s showing the more tender, calmer side of him who truly loves Kelsey. It shows us a different side of him that lets us understand his love and devotion to Kelsey, and that he won't take her from something that she desperately wants, even if that means giving her up to Ren. I don\u2019t usually like love triangles. It\u2019s just a way for authors to add words to their story, and angst and kisses with two different guys and bemoaning of the girl that she loves them both and she can\u2019t choose who she wants to be with, blah blah blah. But here, here is love triangle that I can say tops every one of those contrived romances, and soars above with stark emotion and true love that wraps around my heart and I love it . I love the two men vying for Kelsey\u2019s heart, I love the changes she inspires in them, I love the sizzling moments and beautiful moments Ren and Kelsey have, I love the sweet tender moments Kelsey and Kishan have. I know there are people who don\u2019t like it, who don\u2019t like Kelsey and the decisions she makes, and who found something lacking in Ren and Kishan in this novel. And I understand that, and at times agree. I wish Kelsey and Ren could just be together already, and I wish that Kishan could find someone who he can come to love more than Kelsey, and realize that Kelsey will always be happier with Ren than with him. It cuts my heart to see Kishan suffer, but Ren and Kelsey are meant to be together. I think it\u2019s time for the love triangle to stop. I hope that in Tiger\u2019s Destiny , Kelsey finally firmly decides to stay with Ren forever, no matter what, though doing it gently and lovingly so that Kishan isn\u2019t crushed. And I\u2019ve got to say that I loved Wes. I loved that Colleen put him into the story. He was sweet and charming, and wasn\u2019t vying for Kelsey (though he kind of pretended to), but he still managed to put both of Kelsey\u2019s overprotective tigers at unease and in modes of jealousy. I loved it :) I guess these books are just my guilty pleasure. I\u2019ll love them no matter what happens, (although if Kishan dies I will destroy the book. After I\u2019ve read it all and loved the rest of it, that is.) I can understand why people don\u2019t like these books, two of my sisters hate them for the same reasons. The writing, Kelsey\u2019s bad decisions, the love triangle. But those things don\u2019t bother me as much as they do most people. I feel the writing is getting better. I feel that Kelsey is growing, and learning, and becoming a stronger person. I may not have made some of the same choices she made, but I can understand her, can understand the dilemma she\u2019s in, that the love of her life doesn\u2019t know her, and she has this other incredible man who loves her, who is waiting for her. I have no idea what that could possibly feel like. As if you\u2019ve lost the man you love, though he\u2019s standing right in front of you. Though I think that I would never let him go, no matter if he doesn\u2019t remember or want me, and I would fight to the world\u2019s end to have him again. But that\u2019s just me. I just can\u2019t help but love these books to death. They are treasures in my treasure chest of most beloved books. I don\u2019t expect people to understand my love of them, which is perfectly fine, because I sometimes don\u2019t understand the love people have of other books. To each their own, right? But let it be known I will always love these books, and I see Colleen as a wonderfully gifted storyteller. ...more Seriously? SERIOUSLY?!? I have to wait ALL the way till November 1st to read this? The suspense is just... Wow. I can't even.. ugh! Never mind. Excuse me while I go into a corner & cry myself into oblivion. I kid. XD I can't wait to read this! I can't wait to read this! I can't wait to read this! I can't wait to read this! I can't wait to read this! I can't wait to read this! Need I say more? =) Tiger's Voyage, the third book in the Tiger's Curse series, is amazing! I couldn't put it down! It's about 100 pages longer than Tiger's Quest and I tore through it twice as fast. We follow Kelsey, Ren, and Kishan who embark on their third voyage to break the Tiger's Curse. This time they travel by ocean searching for Durga's necklace. But, Ren is still suffering from his amnesia while Kishan seems to be falling more in love with Kelsey. Their voyage requires the help of five enchanting Chinese Tiger's Voyage, the third book in the Tiger's Curse series, is amazing! I couldn't put it down! It's about 100 pages longer than Tiger's Quest and I tore through it twice as fast. We follow Kelsey, Ren, and Kishan who embark on their third voyage to break the Tiger's Curse. This time they travel by ocean searching for Durga's necklace. But, Ren is still suffering from his amnesia while Kishan seems to be falling more in love with Kelsey. Their voyage requires the help of five enchanting Chinese dragons and of course are being hunted by a number of undersea creatures which include a kraken. Oh yea and don't forget Lokesh who is still after them. Lots of action with tons of suspense and of course the romance. Tiger's Voyage will not let us fans of the series down. ...more 4.5/5 Plot Kelsey and her tigers continue their search on how to break the curse. They are sent to get information on one of Durga's prized possessions. Lokesh is now more determined to find and get Kelsey for his personal reasons that had existed when Ren and Kishan were younger and their parents still alive. In the meantime, Ren and Kishan are bent on showing Kelsey their love for her and that she should make the choice of who to be with. The Love Triangle I wasn't particularly pleased to see the 4.5/5 Plot Kelsey and her tigers continue their search on how to break the curse. They are sent to get information on one of Durga's prized possessions. Lokesh is now more determined to find and get Kelsey for his personal reasons that had existed when Ren and Kishan were younger and their parents still alive. In the meantime, Ren and Kishan are bent on showing Kelsey their love for her and that she should make the choice of who to be with. The Love Triangle I wasn't particularly pleased to see the love triangle forming but it was okay. It caused a little too much drama for my taste. I thought that Houck should have focused more on the problem at hand but a little romance was okay. Picture the girl watching as a guy Characters The characters were overall good. Kelsey Kelsey is a smart and resourceful young lady in this series. In this book, though, she seems to be more dependent on the guy. I wish to have seen her be more independent and possibly have less drama. She was in love and loving two guys but she should just make the decision of what to do. Ren Ren had amnesia and it affected his love life with Kelsey. The entire time I was wishing for him to just remember her since I know that they are meant to be together. He is handsome, romantic, funny, and protective. He cares a lot for Kelsey and wants to protect her. Kishan Kishan is and has been in love with Kelsey. He is jealous of Ren and that he still has her affections. He is funny, relaxed, and wants Kelsey to be happy with either decision that she makes. The Ending There is a definite cliff hanger and I can't wait to get the fourth book when it comes out of hard back. You should read it. ...more With the head-to-head battle against the villainous Lokesh behind her, Kelsey confronts a new heartbreak: in the wake of his traumatic experience, her beloved Ren no longer remembers who she is. As the trio continue their quest by challenging five cunning and duplicitous dragons, Ren and Kishan once more vie for her affections - leaving Kelsey more confused than ever. Fraught with danger, filled with magic, and packed with romance, Tiger's Voyage brings Kelsey and her two tiger princes one step c With the head-to-head battle against the villainous Lokesh behind her, Kelsey confronts a new heartbreak: in the wake of his traumatic experience, her beloved Ren no longer remembers who she is. As the trio continue their quest by challenging five cunning and duplicitous dragons, Ren and Kishan once more vie for her affections - leaving Kelsey more confused than ever. Fraught with danger, filled with magic, and packed with romance, Tiger's Voyage brings Kelsey and her two tiger princes one step closer to breaking the curse. The second part of that blurb is false advertising. Just so you know. Oh, I mean, the dragons do eventually show up. Somewhere around the third act . What follows before that? I'll tell you. A lot of romantic twaddle with brainless characters that is utterly painful to get through in places, not to mention the recurring theme of cultural appropriation and slapped-together mythology that makes absolutely no sense. Now we have Chinese dragons to contend with, because apparently every square inch of Asia is exactly the same. Kelsey and company attend a festival celebrated on the Chinese astrological calendar, with paper lanterns and Kelsey wearing a qipao, in Goa . Then again, this is the series known for Japanese kappa showing up in a mythical Hindu realm. Or Odin and his ravens showing up in the Buddhist Shangri-La in Tibet. You know something, though? I did have some hopes for this book. In fact, it starts out fairly well enough. Lokesh is angry that his plans failed. He's so angry that he not only throws a henchman out of a sixty storey window, but also magically opens up a hole in the pavement below to bury him alive. But still, it sets in stone that he is going to seriously redouble his efforts to defeat our protagonists. He was set up as a force to be reckoned with in the previous book, so hopefully Kelsey, Ren and Kishan are going to have to contend with more monsters and such than ever before! But nope! We're going on an adventure in a mega yacht for most of the book, and quibbling over romantic feelings, getting jealous when Ren gets a new girlfriend, eating tasty food, going to parties, and did I mention that the yacht is named after Ren and Kishan's MOTHER!? Yeah! When Lokesh points it out right at the end (because he doesn't come back into the plot until RIGHT AT THE VERY END ), I was just utterly floored that nobody had thought of it earlier! I mean, he's this big dangerous guy and in the last book, you had to work around fake identities, and Lokesh even sent a squadron of men in black to capture Ren so he could torture him for the rest of the book. So how could you be such UTTER TWATS as to choose such an obvious name that's going to be registered in every harbour around the Indian subcontinent!? Problems I had with the other two books crop up here as well. Kelsey has the Golden Fruit in her possession, which she continues to use as her own personal Replicator from Star Trek , ignorant that such an artefact could be used to solve hunger problems around the world instantly . Kelsey loses her temper at one point and makes herself an ICE CREAM SUNDAE with the Golden Fruit so she'll feel better. It's astounding how this is NEVER brought up. EVER. Nobody has ever said to Kelsey that the Golden Fruit should perhaps be used for more altruistic means. All for selfish gain, of course! Ren and Kishan are utterly creepy jerks in this book. It is NOT romantic to hear your boyfriend talk about how he enjoys hunting you down, or that he gets angry at the idea of you wearing a dress and make-up because perhaps another boy might catch your eye. The Houck Hand-Wave is also still in full effect. Kelsey doesn't share with us her research on dragons. Nope, we just get a sentence about her \"spending hours researching on the Internet.\" Or the talk about the new developments in the prophecy whilst driving through Mumbai. There really is this awful tendency to just hand-wave away details that might be interesting, conversations that could be revealing, or subtle actions that reveal character motivations in favour of some of the most utterly unriveting, godawful dialogue that has ever been put to paper. \u201cFine!\u00a0And incidentally, I don\u2019t understand how I could have believed you were a warm, affectionate, and tenderhearted person! You\u2019re obviously as prickly as a porcupine. Any man who comes close to you will end up with a face full of quills!\u201d (p. 70) Keep in mind, this is a nineteen year old speaking. When Kelsey isn't speaking like somebody from a 1940s PSA, she's quoting Shakespeare with Ren and Kishan so often that I thought they were Royal Shakespeare Company thespians. Who else has such an encyclopaedic knowledge of Shakespeare quotes that they can whip out any time and any place? The main conflict of this novel is not the fact that Lokesh is going to get our heroes and potentially torture them into giving up the pieces of the amulet. Nope! It's that Ren has been tortured\u00a0by Lokesh so much that he's been conditioned to experience physical pain whenever Kelsey is near him. I'd give him props for that masterful bit of cock-blocking if only it didn't induce some of the whiniest outbursts of the book. Which, well, doesn't matter anyway because Ren's post-traumatic stress disorder is easily cured by a jungle shaman who you'll remember from the first novel as the guy who can say some rather complicated words in English but somehow doesn't know\u00a0anything about grammar. Exposition is not weaved into the narrative in Tiger's Voyage . That burden falls onto Mr. Kadam's shoulders. Mr. Kadam knows everything about everything, from the details of yachts and microchips to ... yet the majority of the mythical revelations are made by Kelsey making a half-arsed guess that he could have never come across. As usual. Ever read Homestuck ? Mr. Kadam is basically Aranea Serket. And like her, he should totally set up a booth. But that's doing a disservice to dear Aranea, who really does appreciate good storytelling . So yes, a festival akin to Tanabata is celebrated in India partway through the book, and our white-bread heroine gets to wear yet another culturally appropriative costume and dance around saying she feels like a princess. Oh, also, the captain of the yacht is Jamaican and he speaks exactly like you'd expect a caricature of a Jamaican to sound like. \"Ey mon, I am from de island of Jamaica.\" Because, you know, there's no need to write an American accent or dialect phonetically and make them sound ridiculous, but it's perfectly fine to do so here! Oh, wait, there's an Texan guy who speaks like a cowhand who shows up a little later. Also, scratch another Twilight reference off this bloody series. The princes have motorbikes and Kelsey drives around on one and compares it to an amazing adrenaline rush. We also have Dead-Weird Cullen's insistence on modesty: Ren looked me up and down. \u201cI don\u2019t like that swimsuit anymore. I think we should go back and get one that covers more of you. (p. 162) It totally doesn't matter that Kelsey felt confident in her body and liked what she was wearing, nope! Her man has the final say at the end of the day! Ren gets a girlfriend later, and during this time, Kelsey gets a haircut. He sees this, and gets angry that he can no longer braid or run his fingers through her hair. Cue Kelsey seeing him clenching and unclenching his fists . Charming. Later, Kelsey kisses Kishan, and Ren gets so angry that he flips over a table\u00a0like he's playing Cho Chabudai Gaeshi and throws a chair across the room. Oh, and he forcibly kisses her several times throughout the book. And Kelsey's just all too happy to accept it because he's so hot omg u gaiz i luv him . I mean, look at how charming Ren is with these snippets of dialogue! Kelsey : \"Remember when you first came to America and I was dating Li?\" Ren : \"And Jason and Artie .\" (p. 507) Or the part where Ren just snaps: \"Spit it out, woman!\" (p. 512) to the woman he is supposed to be in love with and no longer has any qualms about being with. It's kind of amazing how Ren's behaviour is never brought into question. You're just supposed to accept it, because he loves her and later on it will be revealed that his connection with Kelsey is actually 'cosmic.' Be right back, I need to find a puke bucket. The obsession with kissing is back again. I feel like that kid in The Princess Bride who wearily asks his grandfather: \"Is this a kissing book?\" No description could ever be more apt for this series. They're ALL kissing books. The romance is so ridiculously chaste that about the only thing that's explicit are all the stupid kissing scenes. Kelsey remains as useless as ever. And I mean useless. This is a character\u00a0who goes scuba diving and sees an eel darting out. She panics and winds up concussing herself on a nearby rock. That's a character you want to root for, isn't it? That's the true mark of somebody, who, out of billions of people around the world, was chosen as a warrior goddess' champion. Squealing about sharks and snakes and whinging about blood and talking about how scared she is to go into the ocean. Nearly getting eaten by a kraken or eviscerated by a shark because she was too dim-witted to think to defend herself in time. Thing is, though, it's not like Kelsey is completely defenceless. No, she just conveniently forgets that she has martial arts training and freaking lightning that shoots from her hand almost ALL THE TIME. Remember in Tiger's Quest , how Kelsey could have avoided being carried up the mountain with a torn-up leg if she'd have just realised she could have scared away that bear with a blast of lightning? Yep. But yes, this is around the two hundred and fifty page mark of a five hundred and sixty page book. Fifty pages later, the dragons finally show up. There's like five of them, and yet the pacing in this book is so bad that the dragon plot just trundles along and seems to take forever . I should not be looking at the remaining page count and wondering how in the hell they're going to defeat dragon number 5 when they're spending AGES with dragon number 2. Dragon #3 even puts Kelsey up in a castle tower for Ren and Kishan to rescue her. A girl who should rightly be able to defend herself is instead suckered into playing the damsel in distress, sighing up in her tower and watching events passively through a magic mirror. The writing also really takes a hit during this time. Short, punchy little action sentences like: He did this. I did that because he did this. He continued to do that. I did this. No,\u00a0I don't know why it suddenly got so monotonous and poorly written, either. The pacing is shambling and awkward to the point where it feels like nothing happened in this book at all . In fact, I should have been really looking forward to the scenes with the dragons, and I should have found them really memorable. Kelsey almost gets eaten by a Kraken at one point, which should bring\u00a0some excitement to proceedings... But no, these events are almost completely overshadowed by the fact I had to sit through so much piffle to get to them. Dragon number 3 is only defeated roughly 440 pages in, leaving us just 120 pages to defeat dragons #4 and #5 and wrap everything up with a nice little conclusion. And of course, this means there really\u00a0is no time to explore much ado about anything with the final two dragons. In fact, Kelsey has a vision of Lokesh and that's when everything goes to hell, he gets his band of pirates to take over the yacht, and Kelsey has to give herself up for the princes' safety. Where Lokesh intends to make her his wife (for... some reason !) and rear\u00a0his child. Boom, end of book. I'd also like to take some time to address some of the really uncomfortable ableism in the book... I mean, Kelsey thinks it's somehow shameful and that nobody would ever want to marry her because she'd be such a burden if she were to to lose her leg following being attacked by a shark. Yeah, I'm sure the people reading this book who have prosthetic limbs or other physical disabilities really appreciate those comments. Nobody in your adult life will ever love\u00a0you because you'll be a burden, and you'll also have to be 'wheeled around like a grandma' because you can't possibly be a good mother who cheerfully 'chases her children around the house.' Nice message there. Really nice. So yeah... this book is utterly, utterly terrible. It suffers the exact same problems as the first two, but amplified because the pacing only gets worse from book to book. Romantic twaddle should not take up the majority of the story when you've got so much else going on in the plot! Dragons, a high seas adventure, a Kraken... And yet we seem to only gloss over all of them, because it's far more important the reader knows that Ren and Kelsey and Kishan are still having their little romantic dramas. Ugh. The mythology makes no sense, the characters are ridiculous and there are flies with higher IQs than them. That's insulting to flies, though. It's ridiculous how the author just seems to think that items and holidays and concepts from different Asian cultures can just be slapped together so you wind up celebrating a Chinese/Japanese astrological festival in India . That might be forgivable if it's a region of India that borders China... But no, it's not. It's thousands of miles further west of the Chinese border. This year at uni, I've been taking a module on Post-Colonial Literature, and it's really saddened me to see authors from colonial backgrounds who have to fight to reclaim their voices, to present their experiences and culture and history because of white imperialism. People who feel utterly homeless and without a culture because they're either a member of the worldwide diaspora or essentially had a Western education shoved down their throats which clashed with the traditions and culture they were told about at home. Entire countries who have to take back the narrative of their history and stories from colonisers and foreign powers. Ever read Things Fall Apart by Chinua Achebe, and gotten to the heartbreaking moment at the end where the coloniser thinks he'll just resign Okonkwo to a paragraph, no, a sentence, no, a footnote of history, despite all that Okonkwo worked and sacrificed for in his life? Or how the Thai people have had to ban The King & I and the Margaret Langdon books that precede it in their country because King Mongkut is now insultingly known to the world as the curmudgeonly tyrant played by Yul Brynner, and not the socially-aware, intellectually brilliant and spiritual leader of Siam that he was known as before Anglo-Indian Anna Leonowens sold her story? And yes, the person\u00a0behind this blog/review is a white British girl who will never know what it's like to have her\u00a0own culture suppressed and to be looked down upon for her race and background. And neither will the author of this book. Which is why it's so gross\u00a0that the Tiger's Curse series has gone so far and picked up so much steam when it presents an absolutely false and culturally appropriative view of India, where bits and pieces of the culture are picked and chosen and other aspects are ignored or glossed over because they didn't particularly interest the author. When was the last time you saw a YA author from India get this big, presenting his or her culture and mythology for what they had experienced it as? Rather than lazy \"well I want to set it in India but I'm not going to do much research beyond a few online searches and books on basic world mythology.\" Houck supposedly has an Indian editor to lend her books some accuracy... so why was the Chinese festival being celebrated in western India in there? Or the Chinese dragons? What, what, and what some more. This is a book set in India that uses Asian mythology and yet somehow makes it all about a white girl. A white girl whose destiny it is to save others from this tyrant. A white girl championed by a Hindu goddess, rather than an actual Hindu girl. It's a white saviour story, plain and simple. White saviour stories, by the way, were often written to legitimise or downright excuse colonial atrocities, because: \"Well, the poor people couldn't help themselves until we managed to show them the light of civilisation.\" Or: \"Well, it's because the poor people didn't know any better. But we did!\" Kelsey reads up about Shangri-La and other legends of India in books written by white Europeans and not actual people from the culture. Houck claims to do all this research, yet it is hardly shown in her books aside from long quotations about insignificant things that sound like they're taken from Wikipedia. Mr. Kadam is just a walking exposition machine, who just needs to be poked and prodded a bit to deliver info-dump after info-dump on whatever is necessary to the plot at that current time. India is nothing more than a pretty backdrop in these books. It's absolutely pathetic. Not a country which\u00a0has a vibrant culture of its own. There's very little description of life in India, or the heat or the surroundings. All Kelsey does is drift around and complain about how much she dislikes curry whilst being praised by Mr. Kadam and Ren and Kishan like the sun comes shining out of her backside because she's \"brave\" and \"courageous\", despite doing absolutely nothing to prove that she is . With poor writing, painfully bad pacing and some of the stupidest and most badly characterised protagonists ever put to page, Tiger's Voyage gets a\u00a01 out of 5 from me. (This review is also available on my blog: http://nessasky.wordpress.com/2014/06... ) ...more I wanted to absorb all that I read for a few days before reviewing this book. So here it is my official review. I loved it. I loved the action packed adventures. The way Colleen describes the details makes it so easy to \"see\" the kraken and the dragons. The emotional writing makes me love, hate and envy the characters-- which is why it took me a week before I could write this review. I know Colleen won't lead me astray, and I now long to know the next chapter in the story. I don't want to post an I wanted to absorb all that I read for a few days before reviewing this book. So here it is my official review. I loved it. I loved the action packed adventures. The way Colleen describes the details makes it so easy to \"see\" the kraken and the dragons. The emotional writing makes me love, hate and envy the characters-- which is why it took me a week before I could write this review. I know Colleen won't lead me astray, and I now long to know the next chapter in the story. I don't want to post any spoilers so I'll simply say I am and will always be Team Ren. Kesley, Mr. Kadam, Durga and Phet remain my favorite insightful writing by Mrs. Houck. I identify strongly with Kelsey's sense of self and dedication to the journey ahead and her extreme loyalty( again -- still Team Ren). Mr. Kadam is less apart of this book than the previous two, so I savored the times he was shared with us. I am so glad he got to go into Durga's temple this time. I feel like it was such an honor for him to be a part of that experience, I was so excited for him. And Phet- I love this crazy little old man. His wisdom how ever strangely delivered is fabulously on target and I loved his interactions with the brothers. Oh the boys-- I personally married a Kishan, so I love him for his careful, watchful, thoughtful, trust in Kelsey, he is such a deeper character than we've seen in the last two installments. His support and unfailing love for our girl is breathtaking at times. Oh Ren- I loved you from your first hello, and at times in this book its a good thing your fictional because I wanted to shake you until you'd snap out of it, and stop with the standoffish behavior and the flaunting of the floozy???seriously!! Alas though when it came down to those final chapters and the tears were streaming down my face - the tears were for you dear Ren. Everything I know will be fully explained in books to come and it's hard to understand right now the why's, but I have faith. Super powered golden lightening has to mean something more right?? In closing I am such a huge fan of Mrs. Houck's books and her way with her characters that I couldn't not love it more thoroughly than I do. Being able to read it ahead of schedule was and honor and a privilege I can't thank you enough for Colleen. Merged review: I wanted to absorb all that I read for a few days before reviewing this book. So here it is my official review. I loved it. I loved the action packed adventures. The way Colleen describes the details makes it so easy to \"see\" the kraken and the dragons. The emotional writing makes me love, hate and envy the characters-- which is why it took me a week before I could write this review. I know Colleen won't lead me astray, and I now long to know the next chapter in the story. I don't want to post any spoilers so I'll simply say I am and will always be Team Ren. Kesley, Mr. Kadam, Durga and Phet remain my favorite insightful writing by Mrs. Houck. I identify strongly with Kelsey's sense of self and dedication to the journey ahead and her extreme loyalty( again -- still Team Ren). Mr. Kadam is less apart of this book than the previous two, so I savored the times he was shared with us. I am so glad he got to go into Durga's temple this time. I feel like it was such an honor for him to be a part of that experience, I was so excited for him. And Phet- I love this crazy little old man. His wisdom how ever strangely delivered is fabulously on target and I loved his interactions with the brothers. Oh the boys-- I personally married a Kishan, so I love him for his careful, watchful, thoughtful, trust in Kelsey, he is such a deeper character than we've seen in the last two installments. His support and unfailing love for our girl is breathtaking at times. Oh Ren- I loved you from your first hello, and at times in this book its a good thing your fictional because I wanted to shake you until you'd snap out of it, and stop with the standoffish behavior and the flaunting of the floozy???seriously!! Alas though when it came down to those final chapters and the tears were streaming down my face - the tears were for you dear Ren. Everything I know will be fully explained in books to come and it's hard to understand right now the why's, but I have faith. Super powered golden lightening has to mean something more right?? In closing I am such a huge fan of Mrs. Houck's books and her way with her characters that I couldn't not love it more thoroughly than I do. Being able to read it ahead of schedule was and honor and a privilege I can't thank you enough for Colleen. ...more As promised, here's a review. :) I read this around the middle of last month, October. So forgive me if my memory is a little weak lol. There are spoilers ahead! Let me begin by saying this book is the best out of the three books in the Tiger Saga so far. I've been a hardcore fan since the first book came out, and it just keeps getting better and better. ;) I could picture each detail as if it were right in front of me. It was that vivid. I could picture the scenery perfectly, especially when t As promised, here's a review. :) I read this around the middle of last month, October. So forgive me if my memory is a little weak lol. There are spoilers ahead! Let me begin by saying this book is the best out of the three books in the Tiger Saga so far. I've been a hardcore fan since the first book came out, and it just keeps getting better and better. ;) I could picture each detail as if it were right in front of me. It was that vivid. I could picture the scenery perfectly, especially when they went to the dragons lairs. That was a fun ride all by itself, even though that was the main thing lol. There were other little fun things in there as well that made it all the more better. <3 I thought it was pretty clever to bring in another guy. That was pure gold. Wesley just cracked me up each time he opened his Texan mouth. I loved it. ;P It was cute watching Ren and Kishan fume over him too. It was sweet. <3 Also, when Ren got his memory back, I'm glad he was back to himself. Not just the deal where it's like \"Oh I've got my memories back, but I'm still the same as I was. Not the old me. I'm still the new me.\" I was afraid that would happen. If that happened, I couldn't take that. I would've definitely threw the book across the room, lol. I think my most favorite though would have to be when they visited the green dragon's lair. I knowwwww. Anyone who has read it would probably be like, \" Wtf is wrong with you?! \" And I don't know. I think it's because that Ren and Kishan basically had to battle their way through the green dragon's obstacles just to prove that they both love Kelsey. As if they needed to do that in the first place. Or it might be just because that Ren and Kishan were dressed as fairy-tale princes. That was something to imagine~ <3 As to the question, am I team Kishan or Ren? ..... That is a hard thing to answer. \"fans self* Lol, I have no idea. I love Ren, I've loved him since book one. I mean, who wouldn't? But Kishan has my heart. Not only do I feel incredibly sorry for the guy, but I do love him. He's sweet as can be, and he's just plain adorable. <333 He just needs a big ole hug. He also needs a happy ending, and it doesn't look like he's going to get one. But what do I know? I could be totally wrong. I hope I am! Colleen said he would on a video Q&A she did. So I hope she keeps her word! The ending wasn't as bad as the second book. I know some people might disagree with me. But I was okay with the ending for this one. I'm definitely going to read book four, and cry my eyes out. Lokesh just needs to go. Like to another planet and stay there. I'm trying not to go to drastic measures on that one. Also, I did read the exclusive content they had put in the back of the book. (I got mine at B&N.) ...Wasn't that some crap? I would say it was cruel, to make Kelsey fall in love with Kishan, then... that ? I guess you gotta do what you gotta do with your story to make it 'better.' This book is definitely one of my top-ten favorite books this year. I loved every minute of it and everything about it! 2012 just can't get here fast enough! :P ...more WORST. BOOK. EVER 'eye twitches'....honestly if you like to read good YA with strong heroine, no annoying love rectangles (yes, that's right RECTANGLES, because overall kelsy has had SEVEN guys fall head over heels for her throughout the three books...yep, prehaps in a perfect world I can swallow this BUT SEVEN? why exactly? she consistently comes across an annoying, whiny, twelve year old stuck in an eighteen year old's body) THEN AVOID THIS BOOK AT ALL COSTS! On top of that, for nearly 250 page WORST. BOOK. EVER 'eye twitches'....honestly if you like to read good YA with strong heroine, no annoying love rectangles (yes, that's right RECTANGLES, because overall kelsy has had SEVEN guys fall head over heels for her throughout the three books...yep, prehaps in a perfect world I can swallow this BUT SEVEN? why exactly? she consistently comes across an annoying, whiny, twelve year old stuck in an eighteen year old's body) THEN AVOID THIS BOOK AT ALL COSTS! On top of that, for nearly 250 pages of the book there was NO ACTION WHATSOEVER! All kelsy complained of was 'hmm which brother should I choose next?..'I love ren', 2 pages later- I hate Ren I want Kishan, 4 pages later- I want Ren again, I want Kishan as a friend, 6 pages later- I want Kishan, I want Ren as a friend only, 8 pages later- I want Ren while I'm making out with Kishan 10 pages later- I want Ren and Kishan 11 pages- Ren and I are soulmates (but i'll just casually date Kishan) I KID YOU NOT, SHE CONSISTENTLY DATES, MAKES-OUT AND BREAKS UP WITH BOTH WHILE WONDERING WHICH ONE IS HER 'SOUL MATE'...GRRRR! honestly I could keep up with Kim kardasian's love life better then I could keep up with kelsy's whininess and selfiness. Furthermore, while she's juggling these two (as well as an random scuba diver, OOPS I FORGOT TO MENTION ANOTHER PERSON WHOSE HELPLESSLY IN LOVE WITH HER FOR NO GOOD REASON), the only purpose she serves throughout the whole novel is playing the helpless DAMSEL IN DISTRESS WHILE TWO MEN FIGHT OVER HER...WHY YOU MAY ASK? BECAUSE COLEEN HOUCK SEEMS TO THINK ALL WOMEN ARE HELPLESS FEMALES WAITING TO BE RESCUED! grrrr honestly and here i was thinking stephanie meyer was bad!i RECOMMEND THIS TO NOOO ONE! ...more It\u2019s been awhile since I\u2019ve gotten into a series, one where the characters follow you around even when you\u2019re not reading. For some reason Ren, Kelsey and Kishan keep popping into my head when I\u2019m doing other things. When I heard B&N shipped Tiger\u2019s Voyage out early I hurried and placed my order. I was so excited to receive my copy and start reading. The end of Tiger\u2019s Quest had such a cliff hanger I had to know what was going to happen next. Tiger\u2019s Voyage was a lot of fun. I really enjoyed It\u2019s been awhile since I\u2019ve gotten into a series, one where the characters follow you around even when you\u2019re not reading. For some reason Ren, Kelsey and Kishan keep popping into my head when I\u2019m doing other things. When I heard B&N shipped Tiger\u2019s Voyage out early I hurried and placed my order. I was so excited to receive my copy and start reading. The end of Tiger\u2019s Quest had such a cliff hanger I had to know what was going to happen next. Tiger\u2019s Voyage was a lot of fun. I really enjoyed the setting; the whole crew sets off on a mega yacht. I enjoyed how all of them were crammed together and we get a lot of Kishan-Kelsey-Ren time. They once again have a lot of challenges and new obstacles to over come. There are a few new characters as well that added a lot to the story. I would like to know more about Nilima. She seems like she could be an awesome character, if we could just get to know her. Since her and Kelsey are the only girls around I would have liked to see them doing more together. The story once again ends with a cliff hanger, but in my opinion it wasn\u2019t as shocking as the last book. I did feel that this book suffered a little from Middle Book Syndrom, kind of dragged a little. I\u2019m not a fan of love-triangles, especially ones that get drawn out and beat to death. I felt like it\u2019s a little over done in this book and too much of a plot device. The book probably gets four stars, but because I don\u2019t like love-triangles I\u2019m giving the whole thing three. I just didn\u2019t believe in the love-triangle. There really isn\u2019t a choice; we all know who Kelsey ends up with in the very end. It just makes her look bad, in my opinion. If you want to hear my ratings, read below, but I caution it does contain spoilers. I have no idea where Houck is going to take these characters. I honestly hope we don\u2019t have to read two more books of Kelsey jumping from brother to brother. Five books of that is just over kill and a part of me just doesn\u2019t want to read it anymore. I\u2019m curious to keep going, but if it\u2019s dragged on and on in the next book I may not finish the series. This section contains spoilers, and lots of venting. For the most part I really like Kelsey. I like that she\u2019s become a lot more self confident, can kick butt, is courageous and a lot of other good things. This silly love-triangle really weakens her character in my opinion. I have lost a LOT of respect for her because of it. It\u2019s hard to have respect and like a character when she is being so selfish and using two great guys. For where we are in the story I can understand why Kelsey is hesitant and even angry with Ren. There are a lot better ways for her to deal with that without involving Kishan. It was fine for the first couple books, but she knows she is not in love with Kishan so she should not lead him on. She is keeping him around because she doesn\u2019t want to end up alone. Sure she cares for Kishan and even loves him, I mean what\u2019s not to love? But, she is not IN love with him. She owes it to both guys to choose NEITHER. Don\u2019t commit to Ren until her concerns are overcome. And don\u2019t commit to Kishan when you know you are not in love with him. Instead of feeling sorry for Kelsey, it makes me dislike her. Because when it all comes down to it, everyone already knows who she is going to \u201cchoose\u201d so it just makes her look bad. If it was a situation where you really didn\u2019t know who she would end up with then it would be a different story, but it\u2019s so obvious that she ends up with Ren and is just using Kishan. I just don\u2019t want to read TWO more books of her flitting between brothers. It\u2019s boring and lost its tension at book two. One more thing that makes me irritated with Kelsey is the double standard she has for Ren. She is mad at Ren for leaving her, purposefully forgetting her and for flaunting other women in front of her. Which I totally understand, I would be mad, hurt, and scared also. But come on, she left Ren and broke his heart in the first book. If she had been in Ren\u2019s position she would have chosen amnesia as well. And, she is constantly flaunting her relationship with Kishan in front of him. If she doesn\u2019t want to risk being with Ren, then don\u2019t. Kishan lost himself in this book. Where was the snarky, flirty Kishan that I fell for in the first two books? He becomes a total doormat in this installment. Sure he\u2019s suppose to be \u201cunderstanding\u201d and \u201cpatient\u201d as he waits for Kelsey to make up her mind. But, to me it came across as boring and kind of pathetic. Dude, you know she is completely in love with your brother and will NEVER feel the same way about you\u2026move on! Stop letting her use you to make herself feel better. Personally, I think he should have gone for Nilima. But, she deserves to be someone\u2019s first choice not consolation prize. Ren is just awesome. I really like his character. He\u2019s hot, he\u2019s romantic, he\u2019s brave and he\u2019s perfect for Kelsey. He understands her and really knows her. I love that while she is constantly pushing him away, he doesn\u2019t stop fighting for her. He knows her fears and knows that together they can overcome them. ...more \u039c\u03b5 \u03c0\u03cc\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf;\u039c\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7,\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bb\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2.\u039c\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03be\u03b5\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac.\u03a0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03c9 \u03b5\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b5\u03af!\u03a4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03c8\u03b1,\u03ae\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1 \u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1. \u038c\u03c3\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae.\u039a\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03bc\u03c6\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03af\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u039c\u03b5 \u03c0\u03cc\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf;\u039c\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7,\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bb\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2.\u039c\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03be\u03b5\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac.\u03a0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03c9 \u03b5\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b5\u03af!\u03a4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03c8\u03b1,\u03ae\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1 \u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1. \u038c\u03c3\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae.\u039a\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03bc\u03c6\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03af\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u039c\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1. \u039f \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc\u03c2 \u03cc\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03c9\u03bd, \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b7\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b7\u03c1\u03ce\u03c9\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2. \u03a3\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ae\u03b8\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9\u03bd. \u0397 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03be\u03b5\u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03b4\u03cc\u03bd \u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b5\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5. \u0397 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03bf \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03ba\u03cd\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u039a\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03bc \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03ce\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd.\u039f \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ad\u03bf\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b8\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c9\u03c2 \u03ac\u03bd\u03b4\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b4\u03ce\u03b4\u03b5\u03ba\u03b1 \u03ce\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2. \u0394\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03ce\u03c2, \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03bf \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039b\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03af\u03b3\u03ba\u03b9\u03c0\u03b1 \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bc\u03bd\u03ae\u03bc\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9. \u0397 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b2\u03bf\u03b7\u03b8\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b8\u03c5\u03bc\u03b7\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03b7 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03b3\u03ae \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c1\u03b8\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac. \u03a4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03bb\u03ad\u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03bf \u03ba\u03cd\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u039a\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03bc \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c0\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b5\u03c0\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bb\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u03a0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u039c\u03b1\u03cd\u03c1\u03bf \u039c\u03b1\u03c1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c1\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03bd\u03b9\u03bf \u03a0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b5\u03ac\u03c2 \u039d\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b3\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03c1\u03b9\u03ce\u03b4\u03b7 \u03ad\u03b2\u03b4\u03bf\u03bc\u03b7 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b3\u03cc\u03b4\u03b1. \u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03be\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 , \u03b7 \u03bf\u03bc\u03ac\u03b4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03b4\u03ad\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03af\u03bf \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ac\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c9\u03ba\u03b5\u03b1\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03bf\u03ba\u03b9\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03c9\u03bd. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c1\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bb\u03ae\u03c2 \u03bf \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03bc\u03bd\u03ae\u03bc\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 ,\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03ba\u03ac \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b7 \u03b1\u03c5\u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b7 \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03cd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd. \u0397 \u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03af\u03b4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03ce\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03b7 (\u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03bb\u03b9\u03b3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c7\u03bb\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae) \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03cc, \u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd. \u0388\u03bd\u03b9\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ac\u03c3\u03c7\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9 '\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03ce\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03c7\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b4\u03cd\u03bf \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ad\u03c2. \u03a3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ae\u03b8\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03c1\u03af\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03b2\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf \u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03ac \u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd \u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf \u03cd\u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03be\u03b7\u03c2.\u039f\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03b4\u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03ce\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1, \u03c6\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03cd\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03c4\u03cd\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b8\u03c1\u03b7\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bb\u03ad\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03bd \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03c1\u03af\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03bb\u03b5\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b7. \u0394\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b3\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1. \u0397 \u03b1\u03bc\u03c6\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03af\u03b4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2. \u0391\u03bd \u03ae\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b8\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c5\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bb\u03ad\u03be\u03c9. \u039b\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03cd\u03c9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03cd\u03bf \u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 ,\u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ce \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03b3\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03bd\u03ad\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2.\u0397 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03c1\u03ae \u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03cc\u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7, \u03b5\u03bd\u03ce \u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c6\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ac. \u039f \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b5\u03bd\u03c3\u03c9\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03b4\u03b5\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2. \u0397 \u03b1\u03c0\u03ce\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bd\u03ae\u03bc\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ad\u03be\u03c5\u03c0\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03b9\u03b4\u03cd\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03cd \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd.\u0397 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bb\u03ad\u03b3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03ac\u03b3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03bf\u03c7\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03b4\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c7\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03b1\u03b4\u03ad\u03bb\u03c6\u03b9\u03b1. \u0391\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ce \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c9\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03bb\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03cd\u03c9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b3\u03bb\u03c5\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c1\u03c5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03cd \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9. \u039b\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03cd\u03c9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b7 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bb\u03ad\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b4\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03bf \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03c4\u03cc \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b6\u03af. \u03a4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd. \u03a0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03ae\u03c1\u03b8\u03b5 \u03b7 \u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03c1\u03af\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9. \u0395\u03bb\u03c0\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b1\u03af\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 \u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03b2\u03ae\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 , \u03b7 \u039a\u03ad\u03bb\u03c3\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c6\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a1\u03b5\u03bd \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac, \u03ad\u03c4\u03c3\u03b9 \u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bf \u039a\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03b2\u03b5\u03af \u03c8\u03c5\u03c7\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03be\u03ad\u03c1\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 ,\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9. \u03a0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03bc\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03b4\u03b5\u03bc\u03b1! \u0397 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c7\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ce ,\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03ad\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1, \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03af\u03b1, \u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc, \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1, \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03ad\u03c2, \u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b8\u03c1\u03cd\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c7\u03ce\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2. \u039f \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b9\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2,\u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03ad\u03b6\u03b9\u03ba\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b9\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03c5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2!\u03a0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c7\u03b5\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03ad\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03c0\u03b5\u03b4\u03bf.\u039c\u03b1 \u03c6\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03b9. \u039a\u03b1\u03b8\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c7\u03c1\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1.\u0391\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b1\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03b6\u03c9 \u03b3\u03b9 '\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03cc\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03b4\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b4\u03bf\u03ba\u03b9\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03b1. \u03a7\u03b1\u03af\u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03be\u03b5, \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c3\u03c5\u03c7\u03bd\u03ac \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03c5\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c7\u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2. \u0397 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c5\u03c6\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 Colleen \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b3\u03bf\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03b1\u03b9\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03ad\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c7\u03bd\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u0399\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ac\u03bd\u03b1 \u03a4\u03b6\u03cc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c6\u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7 \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03c1\u03b9\u03ce\u03b4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03bf\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u0399\u03bd\u03b4\u03af\u03b1. \u03a4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03ba\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ad\u03ba\u03b4\u03bf\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03c5\u03c0\u03cc\u03b8\u03b7\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2. ...more \u03a4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03af\u03b3\u03c1\u03b7, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b5\u03be\u03b7\u03b3\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03cc\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b6\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03c2. \u0393\u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03ad\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1,\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03ad\u03c2,\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b3\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2,\u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b4\u03b7\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03b5\u03b8\u03bf\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b6\u03c9\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03be\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03c3\u03c3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b1\u03c5\u03c3\u03b7. \u0392\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03bf \u03a4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03af\u03b3\u03c1\u03b7, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b5\u03be\u03b7\u03b3\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03cc\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b6\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03c2. \u0393\u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03ad\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1,\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03ad\u03c2,\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b3\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2,\u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b4\u03b7\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03b5\u03b8\u03bf\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b6\u03c9\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03be\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03c3\u03c3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b1\u03c5\u03c3\u03b7. \u0392\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ae \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ad\u03ba\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03b4\u03bf\u03ba\u03ac \u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03ba\u03c4\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 ... \u0391\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03bf\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2. \u03a3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b5\u03c1\u03b4\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 (\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c0\u03b9\u03b8\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc) \u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03c0\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1,\u03c0\u03bb\u03ac\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b5\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf,\u03af\u03c3\u03c9\u03c2,\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03c5\u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ac\u03c7\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1. \u03a5\u03c0\u03ae\u03c1\u03c7\u03b1\u03bd \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03c5\u03c7\u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bf\u03c4\u03b9\u03b4\u03ae\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03af\u03bc\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1. \u038c\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b9\u03ce\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7,\u03b1\u03bd\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1,\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7,\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c3\u03af\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7,\u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03cc\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1,\u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03c9\u03c0\u03b9\u03ac,\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03b8\u03c5\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bf\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bf\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c1\u03bd\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03b2\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c5\u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ac. \u03a6\u03c4\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03c1\u03af\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03ae\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c6\u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b7 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c6\u03b5\u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\"\u03ba\u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\"\u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ad\u03c1\u03b4\u03b9\u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03c7\u03b7 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf \u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03bc\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c6\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b7 \u03b5\u03bb\u03c0\u03af\u03b4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03b8\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b1\u03af\u03b1 !! \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7!! ...more Okay. So, I guess I should explain why I bothered to read this third book. See, my lovely cousin Abby read my review on the second book and thought it was hilarious. So she got all four books from her library and started reading them. And every once in a while she would start laughing like a demon. So...I needed to know. What could be SO COLOSSALLY BAD about this book that made her laugh and slam the book shut? I hate unsatisfied curiosity. And now I know. Am I a better person for it? Probably no Okay. So, I guess I should explain why I bothered to read this third book. See, my lovely cousin Abby read my review on the second book and thought it was hilarious. So she got all four books from her library and started reading them. And every once in a while she would start laughing like a demon. So...I needed to know. What could be SO COLOSSALLY BAD about this book that made her laugh and slam the book shut? I hate unsatisfied curiosity. And now I know. Am I a better person for it? Probably not. Probably worse for it. But am I better writer from it? Well. Now I know what NOT to do. Time to begin EVERYTHING WRONG WITH \"TIGER'S VOYAGE\" With Spoilers Duh Let's start with the biggest problem: 1.) THE PLOT: So, they need to find these items for Durga in order to break the curse, right? Right. So now they need Durga's necklace. Fine. Whatever. Want to know how they FIND said necklace? Well, only a certain dragon knows where it is. We'll call him BOSS dragon, because I don't feel like writing all of their names out with the little accents and whatever. So, they talk to this dragon's brother. Who tells them where a 2nd dragon they need to visit who will tell them where the 3rd dragon is who will tell them where the 4th dragon is who will tell them where a 5th dragon is who will tell them where the BOSS dragon is. But wait. It gets better. So, BOSS dragon tells them where a key is. They get the key, which gets them the necklace. Happy days. Then Kelsey gets kidnapped, the end. In between these \"major events\" fill in with long montages of Ren and Kishan declaring their undying love to Kelsey. Well...more on that later. I'll let you know when we get there. O.Kay. Weird. So...IS there a plot? Guess not. 2.) KELSEY (AND HER EGO): Problem the first--can it get any bigger? For a supposedly \"average\" girl, she certainly has a lot of sections of the book for her to tell us how GORGEOUS she looks. Cuz I guess that's really relevant to the plot. Also...Kelsey's clothes...Does anyone else have to stop for a few minutes to try and unsuccessfully figure out what the heck she's wearing? I eventually just gave up and kept reading. Or I googled whatever italicized word she randomly had in there. Also...how can you not recognize yourself in the mirror multiple times in a row? You'd think after the first time of \"not recognizing yourself\" you'd be a little more open to surprise. And what is the purpose of these random \"Kelsey's dressed up by magic\" montages? Seriously, the bit where the dragon makes her hair grow and dresses her up or whatever for fun...that was just NOT NECESSARY. Neither was the bit where Kelsey is dressed up as Parvati. Or the bit where Kelsey gets dressed up in event a, b, c, d, e, f, whatever, you get it. Kelsey, as everyone knows, is just plain annoying. She plays around with both Ren and Kishan's feelings because she \"doesn't want to hurt either of them\" or whatever, but I hope she realizes that the longer she strings Kishan along, the more it was bound to hurt when the truth all comes out. Well. That's gonna come back to hurt ya later. Plus, what is with Ren and Kishan being so dang determined to love this crazy girl? Kelsey describes herself as pudgy, brown-haired, and plain. So...two hot Indian guys who are over 200 years old just randomly fall in love with that sort of girl? And don't tell me it's her personality. Just...don't. Don't go there. Apparently, Kelsey's 19. But she acts like she's 15, so...you know. She takes EVERYTHING to heart, and get's hurt by the smallest little things (both physically and emotionally). I can't BELIEVE that it never occurred to her that Ren's \"forgetting her\" was done in order to protect her. Seriously? I think everyone reading the book (and their annoying siblings reading over their shoulders) saw that one coming, KELLS . And another thing. Kells. Am I the only person really irritated by a) Kelsey's name and b) Kelsey's nickname and c) Kelsey's millions of Indian nicknames? Please tell me I'm not alone. Am I? AM I? Seriously, if I am, I need someone to just tell me already. Don't leave me in this agony for so long. And...Kelsey's apparent genius. I don't know if I'm the only one who noticed this...but I guess Kelsey's the only person who can figure out ANYTHING plot relevant in the series. Even though Mr. Kadam is the one going around with hundreds of years of experience and is doing all this research, Kelsey will just walk in the room and be like \"oh THAT's what we need to do/find/where we need to go!\". Cuz she's the amazing Kelsey. Fear her. No, really, run away. Be afraid. Be VERY afraid. Anyways. We'll move on. I think I've covered everything else that irritates me about Kelsey in the other review I wrote (her hair braiding? And Ren's obsession with said braids? Weird....and the ribbons. Just...the ribbons. I'm sorry Kells , but every time you mention putting your hair into two braids with ribbons, I think of Pippi Longstocking. Not a 19-year-old girl trying to look mature. Jus' sayin'. Also...her hair randomly growing back. Clearly this just happened to make Ren happy. Seriously. It wasn't necessary except for that whole bit with Ren getting angry about her cutting her hair. Also. Him getting angry about her cutting her hair...Isn't it HER hair, Edward ? I mean....REN. Whoops. How did I make THAT mistake? 3.) THE MEN AND THE (OTHER) WOMEN: So...apparently everyone in Ms. Houck's world is gorgeous. Because that's how Kelsey seems to describe them all. In her mind, EVERYONE is good-lookin'. She's jealous of EVERY girl because they ALL try to push each other over in order to get to Ren and Kishan. (Snicker. Sorry, the mental imagery is just too much for me to handle.) Randi is annoying, blond, stupid, anorexic, and a cliche. An overly used cliche that apparently Ren thought he should use to try and make Kelsey jealous. What IS it with female authors now-a-days who think they need to have a bitchy blond girl character to pick on their poor, plain, brunette heroine? Seriously, this is just getting on my nerves now. Is it possible to NOT use cliches and get a point across? Please? Can we? Randi is an awful person, fine whatever. But she was also completely unnecessary to the plot. And all you authors out there? Enough with the Bella Mary Sue girl characters, would you? We really don't need a bunch of \"I'm a badass man-lover\" brunettes running around in random pieces of clothing I can't even bother to pronounce let alone begin to understand what they mean. Enough with the cliches, please. If I can complain about them any more, I will. They are generally used by inexperienced authors and, sadly, they are being accepted by people if Houck's gettin' rich off of stupid people who love cliches. This is a bad lesson to teach an author (give them a bloated head, why doncha) and a bad lesson to teach teenage girls. Real life isn't like that at ALL. Welcome to the real world. If we can get a decent heroine in modern fiction who I do not despise, that person gets a happy face sticker on their review. Serious. (Oh wait, I like Tris well enough...AND SHE'S A BLONDE!!! HAPPY DAYS!!! Good job there, Veronica Roth. And no love triangles. I remember why I love you now...) Anyways, back to the problem with the OTHER WOMEN here...Again, all gorgeous. Again, even Nilima is a source of jealousy. Seriously? I PITY Nilima. That poor girl is seriously just a plot device who shows up when she's important and then disappears again. I actually stopped reading at one point and asked my cousin \"wait....is Nilima even on the yacht?\" Apparently, she was. I found that out later when she was randomly inserted back into the plot. Also, apparently she was fasting because of some random reason or another that somehow justifies her being gone for previous chapters. And now for the men. The men. The men. Oh dear. Is every man in the world in love with Kelsey? Well, let's see so far: 1. Ren. Fine. ONE love interest. 2. Kishan. His brother. Why? Soap opera much? 3. Li. Is there a reason here? 4. Jason and Artie. Because apparently it's now socially acceptable to date multiple guys at once. 5. Texan diving instructor guy. Because I guess we can only get a 21-year-old diving instructor randomly in India. Ya know. Instead of an old veteran who would NOT become another love interest. Or...love toy, really, because they're very clear that he's not a love INTEREST, he's just there to compliment her and make her boyfriends happy. Like a slave. Whoops, did I say that out loud? 6. Lokesh. Yep. Lokesh. I'll get back to that later. (Surprised, aren't you? Have to flip back to the book and remember WHO Lokesh is again, don't you? Because you forgot that there was supposed to be a villain in these books. That's okay. I did too.) Also, the men in general...how many times do they have to grunt? Because they seem to do that a LOT. Just go back and count. It is ridiculous. 4.) LET'S DESTROY YEARS OF CULTURE AND HISTORY TIME!!! YAY!!!: Okay, so I'm not the first person to point this out, but Houck has a strange obsession with giving us RANDOM INFO DUMP THAT YOU DIDN'T WANT TO KNOW!!! sections. And the best bit? Well, in an attempt to tell us how much research she's done, Houck has actually shown me how LITTLE research she's done. Because she's destroyed a lot of history and culture in an attempt to fit it into her book. First off, a lot of these sections are just randomly put into the story. No, I'm serious. They just have little \"TELL ME A STORY!!\" times that have no plot relevance whatsoever. If I WANTED to read a history book, I'd BUY a history book. And I have before. It's been done. First, Houck does not accurately portray Durga or Parvati. I had to study a lot of Indian myths and culture in Honors English class and if the goddess she's talking about is supposed to be the same goddess in those myths....there's something wrong here. Also. Gilgamesh. Yeah, I know that she talks about it in the 2nd book, not the 3rd one, but I don't have room to do it on the other review. The story of Gilgamesh is actually about Gilgamesh turning into a jack-a** into a nice dude after he accidentally kills his friend Enkidu and then fails to bring him back to life. It has little to do with Gilgamesh being \"clever\" or about him sneaking into the realm of the gods or snakes shedding their skin. Really Kelsey? Snakes shedding their skin? How did you get THAT out of the epic poem of Gilgamesh? And no, I didn't label it an epic, that's actually what it's called. TOO EPIC FOR YOU KELSEY. You didn't embrace the show not tell law. Shame on you. Kill it with fire and all that. The only way the word \"epic\" could be used to describe this book is if the word \"fail\" came after it. EPIC FAIL 5.) LOVE MONTAGES: I don't think Ren is really her boyfriend. I think he's a guy she hired to give her compliments. You think I'm joking? I'm not. It's almost as bad as watching Kristen Stewart say \"I LOVE you Edward\" as angrily and forcefully as she can. Kelsey, if you have to hear a guy tell you he loves you a million times in order to believe him, then maybe....just maybe...you're making a mistake here. You're 19 years old. Possibly, there will be other men out there. You've already proven THAT. Possibly you should wait a few years before trying to get married right away? And let me just remind everyone the one big pervert similarity between this and Twilight: they are hundreds of years old. She's 19. Creepy much? And no, it's not okay to say \"BUT THEY WERE TIGERS ALL THOSE YEARS!!\" Do you think I care? No. Just...no. They want to marry her that's disgusting, really. Almost as bad as what's coming up next.... 6.) THE VILLAIN. BECAUSE YOU KNEW THIS WAS COMING: So have you had time to go back to your book and remember Lokesh? We good now? You know who he is? Yes, you're right. He IS the hundreds of years old villain who wanted to kill Ren and Kishan's father and marry their mother. You remember that part? Now, you remember that he now wants to marry KELSEY, right? Because THAT's so original. I'm getting Dust Land flashbacks. It's not pretty. Oh, sorry (thanks for the correction, Abby) he doesn't want to marry her just to marry her, he wants a son. Yep. Okay. Great. Because we certainly needed that there. This reminds me of yet another series that tanked. Really hard. By Cassandra Clare. If you don't know what I'm talking about, then consider yourself lucky. VERY lucky. Please, don't go looking for it. You'll only hurt yourself. Another note to new authors: Please. No \"I MUST HAVE A SON\" obsessed villains, please. And if you MUST have them, at least don't make them want to marry the heroine in order to GET said son. You'll notice I said please twice. I'm getting desperate here. Help. Me. ******************************************************** BONUS TIME!!! So, in an attempt to (maybe??) COMPLIMENT the book, I think Kirkus Reviews did a pretty good job of summing up what reading the book is like \"shocking, heart-rendin, soul-tearing...\" Ye-ap....This thing tore my soul out all right. And stomped on it. And killed my laugh box. And by the end, I was wondering why stuff like this ever gets printed. BONUS TIME OVERTIME!!!! A quote from my lovely cousin to describe these books: \"I got it--Kelsey is a ball of yarn being batted around between two cats.\" [image error] Yep. Yeah, that pretty much sums it up. Good job Abs. And now another quote from a different source (no, not me. What sort of ego-maniac do you think I AM?): \"It's a Spanish soap opera!\" Yes. Yes it is. Now kill it with fire. ...more OMG!!! When I stop crying I'll try to make a proper review. It was really really good. I can't say enough about how much I love these books. The Tiger's Curse series has captured my heart never to let go. It's been about a month now and I thought I should write a little more about what I think. By far of all the Tiger's Curse books this one has the most adventure, the most sadness, most love between the character, pretty much the most of everything. Colleen Houck, the author, definitely brought t OMG!!! When I stop crying I'll try to make a proper review. It was really really good. I can't say enough about how much I love these books. The Tiger's Curse series has captured my heart never to let go. It's been about a month now and I thought I should write a little more about what I think. By far of all the Tiger's Curse books this one has the most adventure, the most sadness, most love between the character, pretty much the most of everything. Colleen Houck, the author, definitely brought this one up a notch. I love the way the characters have been developing in these books. They have all had to make a lot of hard choices, which I hate to say I like, but I do. Life is not made up of easy decisions. So its refreshing to read a book that's more realistic in the way that people actually think, feel, and live. Apart from the magic and some of the strange creatures I can actually imagine the world Colleen has made and most definitely would love to live in it, without hesitation. While reading Tiger's Voyage I had that never-ending-story feeling. Like the little boy in the movie I felt like I literally got sucked into the book and was actually a part of the story line. It made me happy and sad at the same time. I really wished I could have been apart of it, so I could have been there for the characters I love. This is one of the best stories I have ever read. To say I'm obsessed would be an understatement. I recommend these books to everyone that loves adventure, magic, mystical creatures, love, and to everyone that doesn't mind getting totally mushy, literally crying, obsessively in love with a book series that it almost hurts, then these are the books for you. ...more This book was emotionally exhausting! Just like the first two. The ending didnt make me cry though, which is a first. The first ended with (view spoiler) [Kelsey refusing Ren and returning to Oregon, which was a very moving scene (hide spoiler) ] . Then the second ended with (view spoiler) [Ren losing his memory and Kelsey overhears him telling Kishan that he doesnt love her anymore. That was heart wrenching and I cried more at the ending of the second (hide spoiler) ] . But the third ended with (view This book was emotionally exhausting! Just like the first two. The ending didnt make me cry though, which is a first. The first ended with (view spoiler) [Kelsey refusing Ren and returning to Oregon, which was a very moving scene (hide spoiler) ] . Then the second ended with (view spoiler) [Ren losing his memory and Kelsey overhears him telling Kishan that he doesnt love her anymore. That was heart wrenching and I cried more at the ending of the second (hide spoiler) ] . But the third ended with (view spoiler) [Kelsey being kidnapped by Lokesh (hide spoiler) ] , which is quite a cliffhanger, but an action one not an emotional one. I am quite excited to find out what happens next. The setup of this book was a bit different from the previous two. The first two start out with Kelsey in Oregon, until she returns to India, then the bulk of the book takes place on their adventure in another realm. This one started out in India and Kelsey does not return home between her second and third adventures. Which is good because I dont really enjoy the parts in Oregon as much. The first half of this book is set on a yacht, before they start their adventure. Kelsey, Ren, Kishan, Mr. Kadam, and Nilima. The usual group, while they prepare for their next adventure. It is during this time that the love-triangle is taken to a whole new level. So much back and forth and fighting between the three of them. I think it may have been taken a little too far and shifted the focus of the book a bit too much away from the curse. In Tiger's Quest I was very impressed with Kelsey's loyalty to Ren. I was impressed that she so strongly resisted such a hot, flirty guy when Ren wasnt around. I had new found respect for her. But Kishan is unlike most back-up guys and I knew it would be possible to turn the triangle around, and that Colleen Houck would likely do it. Although I couldnt figure out how it could be done without Kelsey betraying Ren. Well, it was done very well. Not on Ren's part of course, I am still mad at him, but on Colleen's part. She convincingly took Kelsey away from Ren and gave her to Kishan, in my opinion. She did it without me having to lose respect for Kelsey. Although I did lose a little respect for Ren, which is unfortunate. But I have a new found, immense love for Kishan which I am very happy about. I love him so much I could cry! Haha, maybe not literally but when you read so much teenage romance your emotions can get a little confused. :s But I was disappointed in how Kelsey kept saying that she loved Kishan, but she was constantly thinking about Ren. Even after she listed all the reasons why she chose Kishan (Chapter 24), which were all good reasons imo, she could barely stay focused on him. She kept making horrible analogies like how Kishan was the steady player who would last the game but couldnt score the three-pointers. I found it extremely unfair to Kishan and I think he deserves more. He loves Kelsey a lot so I would want him to be with her so he could be happy, but at the same time I think he deserves someone who could love him more thoroughly. Although I would never want Colleen to do that thing where you throw in a new girl at the end so everyone can be happy. I hate it when that happens. But the girl always ends up with the main guy. Colleen will find a way to get Kelsey back with Ren, and she will most likely find a way to do it smoothly and naturally like everything else. But will she find a way to do it without breaking Kishans's heart? :( But this book still excelled where the first two did. The amazing adventure and mythology! This one may even be my favourite in that respect. They travel the ocean of another realm and face five dragons inspired by Chinese mythology. Each dragon gives them a different task to complete before they reach the end to claim their prize. My favourite was definitely the green dragon, although it was probably the characters' least favourite. It was very exciting. :P I really look forward to what happens next. It says Tiger's Destiny doesnt come out till September, but the first three all came out in 2011, so that seems a little unfair. :( Although these books like to torment me emotionally, Colleen has somehow managed to make me agree with all the changes that have happened to Kelsey. I am taking the ups and downs with her. I love Ren when she loves Ren. I love Kishan when she loves Kishan. So I hope whatever happens in the next book, I will agree with it. I dont know how she does it! ...more I want Kishan back... ...because whoever that was, that was NOT our Kishan. Kishan, what happened to you? Where did all that charisma and bad-boy charm go? You had us swooning and clamoring for more in Tiger's Quest and then *poof* you went all boring on us. That sizzle and electric connection and chemistry vanished, leaving love triangle drama in its wake. Can I just say, this is my LEAST favorite way to solve a love triangle dilemma. I think even killing off one of the vertices of your love trian I want Kishan back... ...because whoever that was, that was NOT our Kishan. Kishan, what happened to you? Where did all that charisma and bad-boy charm go? You had us swooning and clamoring for more in Tiger's Quest and then *poof* you went all boring on us. That sizzle and electric connection and chemistry vanished, leaving love triangle drama in its wake. Can I just say, this is my LEAST favorite way to solve a love triangle dilemma. I think even killing off one of the vertices of your love triangle (which I also dislike) is better than morphing a beloved character into something so unrecognizable that you can barely remember why you wanted the girl to end up with him anyway. Kishan oozed with charm and temptation and allure in Tiger's Quest . He was Damon to Ren's Stefan. WHAT HAPPENED? When did our New York Triple Fudge Chunk become so vanilla? In Tiger's Voyage the author reduces Kishan to the doormat, Guy #2 stereotype who's so bland that OF COURSE Kelsey will choose Ren. And you know, I never really thought Kelsey would end up with Kishan anyway (I've been predicting Kishan's death for two books now--hello! fifth sacrifice!) but I didn't want THIS to be the way Kelsey decided. Of course Kishan's going to die, but I wanted him to die AS KISHAN IN ALL HIS GLORY...not as this husk of his former amazing, alluring, charismatic self. I once called this love triangle one of the best in YA, but I fully take it back. It has descended into absolute drama and chaos in this book, with Kelsey being the definition of fickle and toying with both boys' emotions with her indecisiveness. And then there's Ren getting his Edward on, becoming all possessive and jealous in a way that I think is supposed to be hot but just isn't. And it's sad it had to be this way because this book has one of the most unique premises in YA. It's bursting with potential--that setting! the mythology!--but unnecessary details coupled with the love triangle drama are dragging this series down. I've said it before, but this series needs an editor to toss about 150 pages from every book, especially Curse and Destiny . This book is H.E.A.V.Y. with descriptions, from pages describing how to scuba dive to detailed explanations of every morsel to touch Kelsey's lips. I'm cursing the golden fruit right now for how it's opened the way for Colleen to write even more description about every. single. meal. these people eat. These books are topping out at around 550 pages, and these are OVERSIZED hardbacks. Really, 400 pages should be the max or this series is really going to get bloated. And poor Nilima? Could she please have a job to do besides getting Kelsey lemon water and picking out pretty dresses for her? This series has immense potential, but the love triangle drama needs to be resolved stat. And Kishan, I'm hoping you get to be more than Kelsey's second choice. Could you please find your true character from wherever Colleen buried it? ...more I'm in love with this series, and this book was no different. It's one of the most adventurous YA series I've ever read that's set in modern times. Though I'd almost classify this as a fantasy series due to the fact that most of the books take place within these magical places in old legends. In this installment, (I listen to the audio of the series, so forgive any spelling errors please!) Kelsey, Ren, and Kishan go on another quest (a voyage, even!) in an attempt to break the curse of the Tige I'm in love with this series, and this book was no different. It's one of the most adventurous YA series I've ever read that's set in modern times. Though I'd almost classify this as a fantasy series due to the fact that most of the books take place within these magical places in old legends. In this installment, (I listen to the audio of the series, so forgive any spelling errors please!) Kelsey, Ren, and Kishan go on another quest (a voyage, even!) in an attempt to break the curse of the Tigers. On this quest, they meet five Dragons and basically either have to outwit or outrun the dragons and their beasties. A few of the beasties: Kraken: Giant shark: Scary maze: Why not five stars from me? I feel like this love triangle is so ridiculously lopsided, it's not even funny. And I feel like Kelsey...while the author tries to make her appear all innocent and unsure...is leading Kishan on a merry chase while knowing that Ren is who she really wants. I used to like the bit of added angst, but in this installment, it was an obvious plot device and to be honest, a bit insulting. Does anyone in the world actually think she'll end up with Kishan? Seriously? ...more 'Tiger's Voyage' is another opportunity to join Kelsey and tigers in their exotic journey. This series gets better with each book. I don't even know when I've read these 460 pages. I hope that 4th book in series won't let me down. \"Kl\u0105twa Tygrysa. Wyprawa\" to kolejna okazja, \u017ceby wybra\u0107 si\u0119 wraz z Kelsey i tygrysami w egzotyczn\u0105 podr\u00f3\u017c. Z ka\u017cd\u0105 kolejn\u0105 ksi\u0105\u017ck\u0105 seria wci\u0105ga mnie coraz bardziej. Nawet nie wiem kiedy przeczyta\u0142am te 460 stron. Mam nadziej\u0119, \u017ce kolejna cz\u0119\u015b\u0107 r\u00f3wnie\u017c mnie nie zawiedzi 'Tiger's Voyage' is another opportunity to join Kelsey and tigers in their exotic journey. This series gets better with each book. I don't even know when I've read these 460 pages. I hope that 4th book in series won't let me down. \"Kl\u0105twa Tygrysa. Wyprawa\" to kolejna okazja, \u017ceby wybra\u0107 si\u0119 wraz z Kelsey i tygrysami w egzotyczn\u0105 podr\u00f3\u017c. Z ka\u017cd\u0105 kolejn\u0105 ksi\u0105\u017ck\u0105 seria wci\u0105ga mnie coraz bardziej. Nawet nie wiem kiedy przeczyta\u0142am te 460 stron. Mam nadziej\u0119, \u017ce kolejna cz\u0119\u015b\u0107 r\u00f3wnie\u017c mnie nie zawiedzie. ...more I will review this book without giving any spoilers, seeing as it has not *officially* been released yet. Lucky enough to acquire an ARC, I can safely say that Tiger's Voyage is easily the best of the lot. Dealing with the conflicts already at hand at the start of the book, Colleen works past those slowly but thoroughly like a flower bud slowly coming into bloom one petal at a time (see this book even makes me poetic now...) This is not a knock on the pacing, since in this volume Colleen is at he I will review this book without giving any spoilers, seeing as it has not *officially* been released yet. Lucky enough to acquire an ARC, I can safely say that Tiger's Voyage is easily the best of the lot. Dealing with the conflicts already at hand at the start of the book, Colleen works past those slowly but thoroughly like a flower bud slowly coming into bloom one petal at a time (see this book even makes me poetic now...) This is not a knock on the pacing, since in this volume Colleen is at her very best! She masterfully balances the romance with the action, often times blending the two in order to move the story along. I couldn't put the book down and read it in just under three days. (All 542 pages of it! Not bad for a busy mommy.) Ah, the characters. I can safely say that Colleen may very well have created the most astute, yet ignorantly hardheaded female lead in the history of the written word. It's been seen in previous volumes, but is never more obvious than in this installment. The girl knows what we know, but she is very set in her ways. She is... so... DARN... hardheaded!!! All that aside, I can't help but love the girl. Maybe it's true, maybe she really *does* have the power to draw people to her. I know I certainly haven't felt so emotionally involved in a character's fate as I do Kelsey's... Also, if you thought that the kappas from book one were creepy, or the metal birds from book two were just plain terrifying, trust me, you ain't seen NOTHING yet! (Thanks, Colleen, for making many of my already existing fears even worse! Much appreciated!) ;) Once the action starts in this book it WILL NOT let you go until the very last page. Yup, there are ENDLESS challenges to be had on the high seas... More than Shangri-la and Kishkinda combined. I will provide a more detailed review once I receive the *official* product, but if you liked the series thus far, you won't be disappointed with this installment. When pre-ordering, be sure to look for the Exclusive B&N edition! Bravo, Colleen! I can't wait for Destiny to be released now, and see how you could possibly top the most outstanding Tiger's Voyage. ...more I'll write a proper review when I'm back from my trip in Tassie. All I can say at this point is that this book is pretty much the worst I've read, and Ren is a psychotic, emotionally abusive person, and I'm bewildered as to why Kellsey would want to be with him. A quick example of what he does: 1) Even when Kellsey is pushing him away and clearly wants nothing to do with him, he pulls her close, holding her so that she can't move, and kisses her. 2) When Kellsey gets a haircut, he goes on and on ab I'll write a proper review when I'm back from my trip in Tassie. All I can say at this point is that this book is pretty much the worst I've read, and Ren is a psychotic, emotionally abusive person, and I'm bewildered as to why Kellsey would want to be with him. A quick example of what he does: 1) Even when Kellsey is pushing him away and clearly wants nothing to do with him, he pulls her close, holding her so that she can't move, and kisses her. 2) When Kellsey gets a haircut, he goes on and on about how it's terrible and such. When her hair suddenly grows a few feet, and she gets it cut, the person who cuts her hair is terrified to cut it any shorter than he allows . A few fights later, and Ren threatens Kellsey if she cuts her hair shorter than he allows. Like I said, I'll write more when I get back from vacation. But yeah, this is hardcore abuse right there. He makes Eddy the sparkly vamp look like a feminist. ...more Colleen starts Tiger's Voyage from Lokesh's penthouse office. I thought it was brilliant to know what rage and disappointment our antagonist was feeling. After reading the prologue, I immediately knew what an incredible journey I am about to embark. Tiger\u2019s Voyage continues just over a month after Ren\u2019s rescue from Baiga camp. As Kelsey deals with Ren\u2019s memory loss, Colleen works slowly and carefully through her emotions. Every page was an absolute pleasure to read. I can assure you, Colleen is Colleen starts Tiger's Voyage from Lokesh's penthouse office. I thought it was brilliant to know what rage and disappointment our antagonist was feeling. After reading the prologue, I immediately knew what an incredible journey I am about to embark. Tiger\u2019s Voyage continues just over a month after Ren\u2019s rescue from Baiga camp. As Kelsey deals with Ren\u2019s memory loss, Colleen works slowly and carefully through her emotions. Every page was an absolute pleasure to read. I can assure you, Colleen is at her best with this installment. This is a love triangle written well in the most remarkable way. I enjoyed being introduced to new characters. Captain Diondre Dixon tells an interesting story about a beautiful maiden named Jingwei. Wesley Alexander is a great addition to the love triangle. He truly did put a smile on my face and during my interview with Colleen, she had mentioned plotting a book all about Wes. Oh, I almost forgot about Randi. I desperately wanted to throw her off the yacht and when she is introduced on page 212, you will understand what I am talking about. Ren & Kishan, as you all know and agree, are the most beautiful, well written male characters. I did not think it was possible to love them even more. There are a few heartbreaking moments and you will learn to handle them like I did. Although I had forgotten to mention Mr. Kadam on my review of Tiger\u2019s Curse, there are not enough words to describe this incredible man. I adore and love him. Without his research, I doubt the mission would be absolute. How was the journey you may ask? It was absolutely incredible! Put your suit on and prepare to explore the water. This is a story that is surely not to be missed and just wait until you meet the dragons--I would elaborate more but that just leads to spoilers. The story grabs you by the wrist and leads you to a front row seat of all the nonstop action, romance, and adventure. ...more I'm not going to focus on the fact that this book (well this series) completely screws up various cultures mythology, religions, practices etc. I'm no expert on these cultures, but it's pretty clear to me Houck isn't either. But there are reviews out there that are better at picking that aspect apart than I would be. The blurb and plot of this series would lead you to believe that this book is an action packed curse breaking quest. That's a lie. The majority of this book is Kelsey whining about I'm not going to focus on the fact that this book (well this series) completely screws up various cultures mythology, religions, practices etc. I'm no expert on these cultures, but it's pretty clear to me Houck isn't either. But there are reviews out there that are better at picking that aspect apart than I would be. The blurb and plot of this series would lead you to believe that this book is an action packed curse breaking quest. That's a lie. The majority of this book is Kelsey whining about her love life, cruising around the ocean, going on dates. Chapters and sequences about her dates, motorcycle rides, and getting her hair cut are longer than visits to Durga's temple. The freaking length of Kelsey's hair is talked about and debated on longer than the villain is present in this book. I wish I were joking, but I'm not. And the whole to do about her hair only highlights how disgustingly annoying the romance in this book is. Since the last book, Ren no longer has his memories of Kelsey, which is just a cheap ploy for romance drama since while the book wants to convince us there is a love triangle we know Kishan never stood a chance. And both brothers are horrible choices no matter how much the caricature character shaman monk whatever proclaims that they are pillows in a world of rocks and Kelsey would be happy with either. If I were pressed, however, I would say Kishan is less horrible than Ren. Which is why he's not allowed to be the love interest. The love interest always has to be the bigger douche canoe. Ren pulls an Edward Cullen and breaks up with Kelsey for her own good. Even tells her to date Jacob Kishan. She eventually does start dating Kishan, but Ren can't stop himself from being a jealous prick. He gets mad at Kelsey for cutting her hair shorter. He literally throws a table and attacks Kishan when Kishan kissed Kelsey. When he gets his memories back, he demands Kelsey dump Kishan so they can pick back up where they left off. When she rightfully points out that he had his chance, he dumped her, and no that's a horrible thing to do to Kishan he takes a page from Jacob Black's book and rape kisses her to prove his point that she still loves him. He is pretty much the creepiest creep in existence. So of course Kelsey still loves him because Shakespeare quotes and crappy poetry. I mean who wouldn't love a controlling asshat who threatens you if you cut your hair past a certain length? The bottom line is even though the idea and premise for this book sound incredibly interesting it fails because it's such a padded out mess with characters that bounce between too dumb to live, completely uninteresting and infuriating. ...more To see full review click on one of the following links: My blog BookLikes As I was reading Tiger\u2019s Voyage, I couldn\u2019t help but myself but Eureka! Finally a guide to how to write a book. Don\u2019t believe me. I seriously believe that Colleen Houck could write a book on how to write a novel and its sort of all in Tiger\u2019s Curse. Since she hasn\u2019t patented this brilliant formula. I\u2019ve decided I\u2019ll write a guide. It\u2019s not official or anything. But whatever. I find after a couple of glasses of wine it makes a To see full review click on one of the following links: My blog BookLikes As I was reading Tiger\u2019s Voyage, I couldn\u2019t help but myself but Eureka! Finally a guide to how to write a book. Don\u2019t believe me. I seriously believe that Colleen Houck could write a book on how to write a novel and its sort of all in Tiger\u2019s Curse. Since she hasn\u2019t patented this brilliant formula. I\u2019ve decided I\u2019ll write a guide. It\u2019s not official or anything. But whatever. I find after a couple of glasses of wine it makes a lot of sense. Step One: Have a Perfect But Doesn\u2019t Realize It Character Who Everyone Including the Otherwise Asexual Villain is in Love With. Every fucking everybody is in love with Kelsey. She\u2019s so perfect, but doesn\u2019t realize it. And she happens to get curvier as she loses weight. And has a Barbie size waist. Is that even possible? Whatever. She\u2019s perfect which obviously means she\u2019s the bestest YA heroine ever. Honestly, I inwardly cringe when I read these books because it\u2019s more than a little obvious that Kelsey is a self insert to the point it\u2019s not even funny. Step Two: Have two heros Who Are About as Male as, well, Ken. Recently, my friend, Khanh, seemed to coin a problem that I\u2019ve seen going on with several of the heros in YA. They lack penises. Seriously, I don\u2019t get it. Why does every YA hero have to be a) a dick or b) lack any sort of masculinity? Houck\u2019s heros are actually a weird hybrid. While Ren will be acting extremely chaste where the most romantic thing he\u2019s doing is copying pasting a poem out of the public domain one page, the next he\u2019ll be telling Kelsey that she can\u2019t cut her magic induced butt length hair. I\u2019m sorry, but butt length hair is impractical and makes you look like one of those people who have a show on TLC. Not a thing that you really want unless you have time to do a lot of brushing. And if you do keep up the maintenance, I\u2019m sure it look nice. But Kelsey doesn\u2019t fucking want butt length hair. Sigh\u2026 Step Three: People Enjoy Reading about Food and Clothes and Poetry..So Don\u2019t be So Focused on Plot. A good chunk of the book was something like this (note, I\u2019m paraphrasing this is not an actual quote): This morning I was going to wear my red dress, but Ren didn\u2019t like that said it made me look like a harlot. So, I put on the black one. But Kishan said it was boring. So I just decided to keep on my Garfield pajamas as I told the golden fruit (which could cure the problem of world hunger but I don\u2019t fucking give a flip) to make me a Denny\u2019s Grand Slam with extra bacon and maple syrup-oh, and some chocolate chip peanut butter crap too. And then Ren read me a Shakespeare sonnet (if I was actually Houck I\u2019d insert the whole damn sonnet here). And then after that I made myself a pastrami sandwich, with some ranch chips, a Coke float, and a ice cream sundae from DairyQueen before I put on my purple evening dress and Ren read some more poetry that\u2019s in the public domain. I\u2019m not joking people. This is literally what the first third of the book was. Okay, throw in some melodrama love triangle bullshit and some horrid accents which I\u2019ll get to in a minute. But that was pretty much it. ...more Colleen Houck has yet again created a story with a thrilling and incredibly scary plotline. She used an incredible amount of imagination to create the challenges the characters faced in Tiger\u2019s Voyage. Her writing is so imaginative, every single sentence created vivid pictures in my head so I felt like I was by the characters\u2019 side the entire time. I love the mythology the author used to enrich the story, creating a wonderful background for the prophecy. But there were a lot of stories and it be Colleen Houck has yet again created a story with a thrilling and incredibly scary plotline. She used an incredible amount of imagination to create the challenges the characters faced in Tiger\u2019s Voyage. Her writing is so imaginative, every single sentence created vivid pictures in my head so I felt like I was by the characters\u2019 side the entire time. I love the mythology the author used to enrich the story, creating a wonderful background for the prophecy. But there were a lot of stories and it became a little difficult to keep them all straight. There were also some myths and stories not pertinent to the prophecy and while they were lovely and interesting, they just created a bit of confusion. In the first half of the book there were quite a few unnecessary descriptions, too much uninteresting information was piled on me and my attention strayed. The beginning of the book was interesting, the opening drew me in immediately and promised more excitement to come. But after the first few chapters the plot slowed down and not much exciting happened until the middle of the book. And during that time the characters were dealing with their love situation and no reprieve was offered from the emotional onslaught, making reading the book tiresome. After that, the tasks that were set before Kelsey and the boys began and the plot picked up again. The ending was spectacular and completely unexpected and it left me wanting more. I really like Kelsey. She\u2019s the kind of main character that\u2019s really easy to connect with. But in Tiger\u2019s Voyage she disappointed me with her immature behavior regarding the romantic situation she was in. It was a big change from the rational and level-headed person I\u2019ve come to know love in the previous books. She was constantly bickering and picking fights with Ren. It was very out of character for her. By the end of the book I no longer felt sorry for her and the personal problems she was facing, the constant whining and complaining just started to grate on my nerves, when much of the pain she experienced was by her own doing. Her actions and words were hurting those around her, probably more than they did her. The ending was spectacular and completely unexpected and it left me wanting more. I had the hardest time trying to decide on the rating. There are parts of Tiger\u2019s Voyage I hated with a passion and parts I loved with an equal amount of passion. So if you don\u2019t mind immature bickering and the characters' indecisiveness, you\u2019ll probably like the book more than I did. ...more Here's the thing.... I had bigger expectations for this book.... But I had some serious problems with it. First what's up with Lokesh Speaking like Voldemort? \"He didn't believe in good and evil-only in powerful and powerless\" it sounds too much like when Voldemort tells Harry there's only power and those too afraid to seek it (or something along those lines).... Then I wanted to slap Kelsey, repeatedly. She spends half the book crying over Ren and when he gets his memory back, she's too dumb to Here's the thing.... I had bigger expectations for this book.... But I had some serious problems with it. First what's up with Lokesh Speaking like Voldemort? \"He didn't believe in good and evil-only in powerful and powerless\" it sounds too much like when Voldemort tells Harry there's only power and those too afraid to seek it (or something along those lines).... Then I wanted to slap Kelsey, repeatedly. She spends half the book crying over Ren and when he gets his memory back, she's too dumb to understand she would've been caught if not for Ren.... THEN in the end she's willing to sacrifice heraelf for the brother's sake! THAT'S WHAT REN FREAKING DID FOR HER! And she can't take him back? Isn't it worse to just have Kishan pining after her when she doesn't feel that way about him :| And what with Kishan? So much for being observant and loyal and knowing of Kelsey and he can't see she's not as happy with him as with Ren and that Ren's wooing her girlfriend under his nose!! I couldn't help but think that the plot was very similar to New Moon... She Has to choose between the guy that makes her blood boil and the one that's sweet, loyal and reliable because she loves guy #1 too much and doesn't want to get her heart broken again becaus it hurt too much when he left her... At least Bella had the decency to admit she belongs with Edward. What I did like was the all the quest stuff when they really got into action and all the dragons they were all awesome!... So I'm going to give it 3 stars because there were some moments I really enjoyed And some of the stuff between Kelsey and Ren... I must admit I did approve her decision before the hunt but after that I just couldn't believe it I wanted to knock just the tiniest bit of sense into her. Anyway, I really believe Mrs. Houck has potential but she definitely has a lot of work to do with her writing... Like making the characters sound authentic when they speak, mostly when they're trying to explain something (which in my opinion they do a little too much) But I feel that in terms of writing this isn't the worst book of the series and there were some really good parts. So I'll read the 4th but I won't expect much from it so I don't suffer disappointment... ...more Truthfully, I'm disappointed with this; having loved book 1 and 2, I couldn't wait to see where book 3 would go. The start was amazing, and the end. But 400 pages in between just felt like it was trying to build tension to a semi climatic ending. I found Kelsey to be fickle as anything this time, and Ren wasn't much better. Kishan was the only main character to stayed himself through the whole book.", "Title": "Tiger's Voyage"},
