{"Comments": "\u201dShe was indisputably a natural blonde. Her shoulder-length hair,<---M> which was sandy in summer</---M>, turned golden in the fall as if in sympathy with the wheat fields back home. She had fine features and blue eyes and pinpoint dimples so perfectly defined that it seemed like there must be a small steel cable fastened to the center of each inner cheek which grew taut when she smiled. True, she was only five foot five, but she knew how to dance in two-inch heels--and she knew how to kick them off as soon \u201dShe was indisputably a natural blonde. Her shoulder-length hair, which was sandy in summer, turned golden in the fall as if in sympathy with the wheat fields back home. She had fine features and blue eyes and pinpoint dimples so perfectly defined that it seemed like there must be a small steel cable fastened to the center of each inner cheek which grew taut when she smiled. True, she was only five foot five, but she knew how to dance in two-inch heels--and she knew how to kick them off as soon as she sat in your lap.<---F>\u201d Lower Manhattan 1938</---F>. Eve Ross, a New York transplant from Indiana, is one of those friends that manages to always have a good time whether she is in a jazz club or on her way to a funeral. She is an energy vampire. She takes it. She gives it. As one party ends another one begins. <---C>Katey Kontent</---C> is Eve\u2019s sidekick. She was born in New York and enjoys the octane fueled experiences with her friend, but she can never throw herself into the fray quite the way Eve does. She\u2019s always more reserved, more willing to observe and ponder events rather than be lost in the moment. It is 1938. They meet Tinker Grey, a well groomed, well heeled banker who is a man in need of a good time and Eve and Katey are the right two gals to provide it. He has the money. They have the energy. Katey is used to taking a backseat to Eve and as their dueling relationship starts to evolve with Tinker it is no secret that as much as Tinker appreciates Eve he is developing a serious crush on Katey. Eve is a force of nature and provides the whirlwind effect to any outing, but if a guy wants a moment to have a quiet drink and a deeper conversation Katey is the right ticket. --\u201dEve leaned toward Tinker confidentially. --Katey\u2019s the hottest bookworm you\u2019ll ever meet. If you took all the books that she\u2019s read and piled them in a stack, you could climb to the Milky Way. --The Milky Way! --Maybe the Moon, I conceded.\u201d She is HOT and she READS ? YOWZA! She reads everything from Charles Dickens to Agatha Christie and appreciates that pendulum of reading experiences equally and for different reasons. \u201dI read a lot of Agatha Christies that fall of 1938--maybe all of them. The Hercule Poirots, the Miss Marples. Death on the Nile. The Mysterious Affair at Styles. Murders...on the Links...at the Vicarage, and, ...on the Orient Express. I read them on the subway, at the deli and in my bed alone. You can make what claims you will about the psychological nuance of Proust or the narrative scope of Tolstoy, but you can\u2019t argue that Mrs. Christie fails to please. Her books are tremendously satisfying. Yes, they\u2019re formulaic. But that\u2019s one of the reasons they are so satisfying. With every character, every room, every murder weapon feeling at once newly crafted and familiar as rote ( the role of the postimperialist uncle from India here being played by the spinster form South Wales, and the mismatched bookends standing in for the jar of fox poison on the upper shelf of the gardener\u2019s shed). Mrs. Christie doles out her little surprises at the carefully calibrated pace of a nanny dispensing sweets to the children in her care.\u201d If you are still not sure that you want to be friends with Katey Kontent than how about this. \u201dIn retrospect, my cup of coffee has been the works of Charles Dickens. Admittedly, there\u2019s something a little annoying about all those plucky underprivileged kids and the aptly named agents of villainy. But I\u2019ve come to realize that however blue my circumstances, if after finishing a chapter of a Dickens novel I feel a miss-my-stop-on-the-train sort of compulsion to read on, then everything is probably going to be just fine.\u201d Katey when she needs a moment of contemplation, a place to be alone with her thoughts she finds an empty church. I too find a church most spiritual between services when the thunder of religious verbosity is dissipating into the distance. In New York such churches are works of art, good for the soul and the intellectual mind. St. Patrick\u2019s New York \u201dSt. Patrick\u2019s on Fifth Avenue and Fiftieth Street is a pretty powerful example of early nineteenth-century American Gothic. Made of white marble quarried from upstate New York, the Walls must be four feet thick. The stained-glass windows were made by craftsmen from Chartres. Tiffany designed two of the altars and a Medici designed the third. And the Pieta in the southeast corner is twice the size of Michelangelo\u2019s. In fact, the whole place is so well made that as the Good Lord sees about His daily business, He can pass right over St. Patrick\u2019s confident that those inside will take pretty good care of themselves.\u201d There is a car accident and Eve is hurt the worse of the three. Guilt, a powerful tool, swings all of Tinker\u2019s attention to Eve. Any burgeoning relationship he has with Katey comes to a skidding halt with the shattering of glass and a great beauty marred by scars. They don\u2019t see as much of each other, but when they do there is still a trip of a heartbeat . She can\u2019t get him out of her head. He isn\u2019t who he seems. He is more and less than what she believed. Tinker\u2019s brother provides a little insight into what makes Tinker more than the sum of his parts. \u201dNever mind that he speaks five languages and could find his way safely home from Cairo or the Congo. What he\u2019s got they can\u2019t teach in schools. They can squash it, maybe; but they sure can\u2019t teach it. --And what\u2019s that? --Wonder. --Wonder! --That\u2019s right. Anyone can buy a car or a night on the town. Most of us shell out our days like peanuts. One in a thousand can look at the world with amazement. I don\u2019t mean gawking at the Chrysler Building. I\u2019m talking about the wing of a dragonfly. The tale of the shoeshine. Walking through an unsullied hour with an unsullied heart. Mother Nature competing with Tiffany Yeah, I know, I had to take a moment and spend a little time thinking about that line as well. I do know that perfection, those amazing moments where everything lines up from the moon to the breeze are few and far between. They need to be logged, carefully wrapped in gossamer, and placed in the deepest, safest vault of your memories so that when things go to crap they can be retrieved, savored, and hope can be restored that more of those moments are in your future. Life can never take everything away from you. Like most of us Katey doesn\u2019t end up anywhere near where she expected, but 1938 is a year of those gossamer wrapped memories that can bring a whimsical smile to her lips when she is forty, seventy or a hundred and seven. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more $1.99 Kindle Download special today! -- GREAT DEAL!!! (I spent more!) FANTASTIC....FABULOUS!!!!!! I LOVED THIS NOVEL TREMENDOUSLY!!!! This review is filled 'mostly' with quotes --as these are quotes I want to remember....yet without the context of the story itself ... there are NO SPOILERS. Special thanks Sara. We are buddy-reading this together ..having our own private book club discussion....adds much richness to a novel like this one. Whatever setbacks Katey's father faced in life, he said, \" $1.99 Kindle Download special today! -- GREAT DEAL!!! (I spent more!) FANTASTIC....FABULOUS!!!!!! I LOVED THIS NOVEL TREMENDOUSLY!!!! This review is filled 'mostly' with quotes --as these are quotes I want to remember....yet without the context of the story itself ... there are NO SPOILERS. Special thanks Sara. We are buddy-reading this together ..having our own private book club discussion....adds much richness to a novel like this one. Whatever setbacks Katey's father faced in life, he said, \"however daunting or dispiriting the unfolding of events, he always knew that he would make it through, as long as when he woke in the morning he was looking forward to his first cup of coffee\". \"when a person loses the ability to take pleasure in the mundane--in the cigarette on the stoop or the gingersnap in the bath--she has probably put herself in unnecessary danger\". \"One must be prepared to fight for one's simple pleasures and to defend them against elegance and erudition and all manner of glamorous enticements\". \"In retrospect, my cup of coffee has been the works of Charles dickens. Tinker had this to say about Katey.... \"Right from the first, I could see a calmness in you--that sort of inner tranquility that they write about in books, but that almost no one seems to possess. I was wondering to myself: 'how does she do that?' And I figured it could only come from having no regrets--from having made choices with... such poise and purpose\". Hmmmm....something 'I' mulled over....( as did Katey)..... \"Most people have more needs than wants. That's why they live the lives they do. But the world is run by those whose wants outstrip their needs\". \"If we only fell in love with people who were perfect for us, then there wouldn't be so much to fuss about love in the first place\" \"I suppose that Anne was right when she observed that at any given moment we're all seeking someone's forgiveness.\" HIGHLY RECOMMEND to ALL!!!!! ...more The prologue to this novel takes place at an exhibition of photographs by Walker Evans in 1966. The author tells us that Evans had waited 25 years to show these photos to the public due to a concern for the subjects' privacy. The photos are taken with a hidden camera in the NYC subway car and \"captured a certain naked humanity.\" Kate sees an old friend, Tinker Grey in two of these pictures. In one he's clean shaven, wearing a custom shirt and a cashmere coat. In a photo dated one year later he l The prologue to this novel takes place at an exhibition of photographs by Walker Evans in 1966. The author tells us that Evans had waited 25 years to show these photos to the public due to a concern for the subjects' privacy. The photos are taken with a hidden camera in the NYC subway car and \"captured a certain naked humanity.\" Kate sees an old friend, Tinker Grey in two of these pictures. In one he's clean shaven, wearing a custom shirt and a cashmere coat. In a photo dated one year later he looks underweight and dirty in a threadbare coat. The novel starts 25 years earlier, in flashback, telling the story of Tinker Grey, Kate and others with picture perfect descriptions of the city, it's highlights and it's inhabitants. Towles writes as though through the lens of a camera. But unlike Evan's subway photos, Towles has a light, empathic touch when it comes to people - the angles never harsh, just true. And how appropriate that the underlying theme of this book is about how much people expose or hide their true lives, how much is deception or reality. As Kate says, \" we give people the liberty of fashioning themselves in the moment - a span of time that is so much more manageable, stageable, controllable than is a lifetime.\" Justice is another theme in the novel. Do those people in the subway get a life that they deserve? What about the rich Wall Street types? Kate becomes a fan of Agatha Christie at a point in the novel when she is hurt, angry and concerned about whether justice exists in the world. She likes Agatha Christie's universe \"where everyone gets what they deserve.... and a destiny that suits them.\" Literature lovers will enjoy several other allusions to and quotes from other writers, not to mention Kate's tendency to start a book somewhere in the middle. But the most enjoyable parts of the book were the laugh out loud funny repartee or the witty narrative voice that often highlights Kate's wise and strong personality. In an emotional moment, she tells the reader: \"As a quick aside, let me observe that in moments of high emotion....if the next thing you're going to say makes you feel better, then it's probably the wrong thing to say. This is one of the finer maxims that I've discovered in life. And you can have it, since it's been of no use to me.\" One of the markers of a good novel for me is whether I miss the characters after I've finished the book. I'm feeling quite bereft and hoping for a sequel. ...more This is just delightful fun. It's a love letter, a limerick, a lollipop, a literary longing. Grab your shaker of martinis and your cocktail onions and take a ride with Katey Kontent through the streets of 1938 Manhattan. She's just a working girl trying to make it on her own, but with the right (or wrong?) friends, she manages to borrow a little glamour...and a helping or two of trouble besides. The book is not without its flaws. I was only going to rate it four stars. After I read the epilogue This is just delightful fun. It's a love letter, a limerick, a lollipop, a literary longing. Grab your shaker of martinis and your cocktail onions and take a ride with Katey Kontent through the streets of 1938 Manhattan. She's just a working girl trying to make it on her own, but with the right (or wrong?) friends, she manages to borrow a little glamour...and a helping or two of trouble besides. The book is not without its flaws. I was only going to rate it four stars. After I read the epilogue and then went back and re-read the prologue, I added the fifth star because I like the way it's constructed. I also liked the way he brought it all together in the end, drawing some poignant and profound conclusions. It may be that you can only appreciate the fellow feeling at the end if you've reached a certain age and can look back on your 20s with both regret and compassion for your young self and the friendships you chose before the weightiness of life settled in. ...more If a novel could win an award for best cinematography, this would take home the gold. <---A>Amor Towles</---A>'s sophisticated retro-era novel of manners captures Manhattan 1938 with immaculate lucidity and a silvery focus on the gin and the jazz, the nightclubs and the streets, the pursuit of sensuality, and the arc of the self-made woman. The novel's preface opens in 1966, with a happily married couple attending a Walker Evans photography exhibition. An unlikely chance encounter stuns the woman, Katey--a pi If a novel could win an award for best cinematography, this would take home the gold. Amor Towles's sophisticated retro-era novel of manners captures Manhattan 1938 with immaculate lucidity and a silvery focus on the gin and the jazz, the nightclubs and the streets, the pursuit of sensuality, and the arc of the self-made woman. The novel's preface opens in 1966, with a happily married couple attending a Walker Evans photography exhibition. An unlikely chance encounter stuns the woman, Katey--a picture of a man staring across a canyon of three decades, a photograph of an old friend. Thus begins the flashback story of Katey's roaring twenties in the glittering 30's. Katey Kontent (Katya) is the moral center of the story, an unapologetic working girl--more a bluestocking than a blue blood-- born in Brighton Beach of Russian immigrant parents. She's an ambitious and determined statuesque beauty \u00e0 la Tierney or Bacall who seeks success in the publishing industry. She works as hard by day as she plays at night. Her best friend, Eve (Evelyn) Ross, is a Midwest-born Ginger Rogers /Garbo character mix, with jazz cat spirit and a fearless, cryptic glamor. She refuses daddy's money and embraces her free spirit: \"I'm willing to be under anything...as long as it isn't somebody's thumb.\" Katey and Eve flirt with shameless savoir-faire, and are quick with the clever repartees. They will kiss a man once that they'll never kiss twice, and glide with effortless \u00e9lan among all the social classes of New York. Moreover, they can make a few dollars stretch through many a martini, charming gratis drinks from fashionable men. With their nerve and gaiety, the two would be equally savvy at Vanity Fair or the Algonquin Round Table, or in a seedy bar on the Lower East Side. Eve and Katey meet the sphinx-like Tinker Grey on New Year's Eve, 1937, at the Hotspot, a jazz bar in Greenwich Village. Tinker's m\u00e9tier is Gatsby-esque--an inscrutable, ruggedly handsome man in cashmere, a mysterious lone figure with an enigmatic mystique. The three become fast friends, but as with many triangulating relationships, a hairline rivalry sets in. Then a cataclysmic tragedy shatters the cool grace of their bond, and their solidarity is ruptured. Towles is spectacular at description and atmosphere, keeping a keen camera's eye on the city with a polished pedigree of writing that is rare in a debut novel. A smoky haze envelopes the streets and clubs and buildings, which the reader can't help surveying in all the rich colors of vintage black and white. The writing is dense, yet fluid and ambient, rich as a contralto, and cool as a saxophone. Tendrils of Edith Wharton flow through, as well as Fitzgerald, and echoes of Capote's Holly Golightly. At times, the lush descriptions threaten to eclipse the story, and the characters recede. This is a book of manners, so the action resides in the conflict between individual ambitions and desires and the acceptable social codes of behavior between classes. However, the middle section stagnates, as one character hugs most of the narrative in repetitive days and nights, the psychological complexities dimming. It loses some steam as the taut thrill of the first half wanes, but an understated closure recharges it again. Overall, the beauty of the novel endures, and the sensuality of the prose lingers. The reader is also edified on the origin of the title, and the author folds it in neatly to the story. The characters are crisp and contoured, delightful and satisfying, even if one left the stage a bit too soon. This is one male writer who finesses his female characters with impressive agility and assurance. ...more \u201cTwo roads diverged in a wood, and I, I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference.\u201d The road not taken by Robert Frost. Katey Kontent stands on her balcony overlooking Central Park in 1966 and reflects on the journey of her life and the road she chose to walk more than twenty years ago. Vulnerable and voluptuous like Billie Holiday\u2019s voice in \u201cAutumn in New York\u201d , Katey remembers the one and only genuine love of her life, the irresistible banker Tinker Grey. \u201cFor many are c \u201cTwo roads diverged in a wood, and I, I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference.\u201d The road not taken by Robert Frost. Katey Kontent stands on her balcony overlooking Central Park in 1966 and reflects on the journey of her life and the road she chose to walk more than twenty years ago. Vulnerable and voluptuous like Billie Holiday\u2019s voice in \u201cAutumn in New York\u201d , Katey remembers the one and only genuine love of her life, the irresistible banker Tinker Grey. \u201cFor many are called, but few are chosen.\u201d Whereas a song must rely solely on a sequence of piano notes with slight variations as a conduit for immediate beauty, this novel offers another kind of aesthetic emotion captured in interwoven depth and detail which slowly escalates to a bittersweet climax that will remain for long after the last page is turned. The almost Proustian trip to Katey\u2019s past is triggered by the fortuitous encounter with a couple of old pictures of magnetic Tinker in a photographic exposition that will project Katey\u2019s memory back to the New Year\u2019s Eve of 1937 in which she and her roommate Eve, both working as secretaries in the land of opportunities, meet the seductive banker in a vibrant smoldering jazz club. Wrapped in the quintessential urban mythology of New York City and overflowing with the exuberant pulsation of hedonism and new opportunities resulting from the Great Crash of 1929, Katey, Eve and Tinker become irremediably bound together in a triangular relationship going beyond the clich\u00e9d scenes and plot twists experienced countless times before in other stories. What Towles paints in elegant yet solid black and white brushstrokes is an insightful and vivid account of the social reality and the vicissitudes of life enriched with fascinating and complex characters oozing with naked humanity, which struggle to find their own place in this glossy yet hollow Broadway cardboard scenario of the New York of the time. \u201cOne must be prepared to fight for one\u2019s simple pleasures and to defend them against elegance and erudition and all manner of glamorous enticements.\u201d (p. 128) How far is one ready to go to secure social status and career success? What is the price to pay for allowing feelings cross the beaten track of ambitions? Which road should be taken when the forking path of conscience has to be confronted? The glamorous yet frivolous most travelled one, based on impeccable \u201c<+++>Rules of Civility</+++>\u201d which frame public behavior and ensure social and professional success? Or the less treaded one that points out to the uncomfortably hidden truths within oneself? Opposite sides of the same coin are imprinted in the inner contradictions of each one of the characters in this riveting chess game of story, tearing apart while bringing their lives together across the streets of sumptuous yet decadent Manhattan. \u201cThat\u2019s how quickly New York City comes about \u2013 like a weather vane \u2013 or the head of a cobra. Time tells which.\u201d (p. 161) Be ready to time travel through Katey\u2019s acute and sharp eyes while encountering multilayered moral dilemmas that won\u2019t only varnish the black and white canvas with opalescent colors beaming with true love, compassion, loyalty and sacrifice but also infuse disquieting questions about the first signs of a ruthless society that would take shape in the forthcoming years after the interval of the Second World War, whose threat looms on the horizon of this novel. \u201cSo long as a man is faithful to himself, everything is in his favor, government, society, the very sun, moon, and stars\u201d says Henry David Thoreau in his masterpiece Walden , Katey\u2019s favorite book. I stand with Katey on her balcony staring at the holes in the floor of heaven and wonder alongside with her whether the choices she made with eyes closed and open heart were the right ones. Her stunning eyes stare back at me and silently reply \u201cI have no doubt that they were the right choices for me. And at the same time, I know that right choices by definition are the means by which life crystallizes loss.\u201d Billie Holiday\u2019s sinuous voice is suddenly tinged with a melancholic undertone remembering the roads that won\u2019t ever be trodden and the fellow travelers that were lost on the way. But as the last notes of the song are engulfed by the darkest night, my lips draw the slightest hint of a smile in knowing that all roads, if treaded faithfully, will lead where one truly belongs. ...more Blargh, I'd been having such good luck with Goodreads Choice finalists. I really should have put it down after page two, when the female, working-class narrator describes her roommate as follows: \"Eve was one of those surprising beauties from the American Midwest. In New York it becomes so easy to assume that the city's most alluring women have flown in from Paris or Milan. But they're just a minority. A much larger covey hails from the stalwart states that begin with the letter I--like Iowa or Ind Blargh, I'd been having such good luck with Goodreads Choice finalists. I really should have put it down after page two, when the female, working-class narrator describes her roommate as follows: \"Eve was one of those surprising beauties from the American Midwest. In New York it becomes so easy to assume that the city's most alluring women have flown in from Paris or Milan. But they're just a minority. A much larger covey hails from the stalwart states that begin with the letter I--like Iowa or Indiana or Illinois. Bred with just the right amount of fresh air, roughhousing, and ignorance, these primative blondes set out from the cornfields looking like starlight with limbs. Every morning in the spring one of them skips off her porch with a sandwich wrapped in cellophane ready to flag down the first Greyhound headed to Manhattan--this city where all things beautiful are welcomed and measured if, if not immediately adopted, then at least tried on for size.\" You know, maybe you shouldn't write your debut novel in the first person from the POV of a character of the opposite gender from yourself? Let alone a different time period and socioeconomic (and educational) background? Just a thought? Well, I kept going. For 129 pages. Until I realized there was no plot. Just lots of drinking, and pretentious talk about art and such. Also, by the time I quit, the main character had coincidentally run into someone while out and about at least 5 times. I thought New York City was a bit bigger than that? But, I admit, I hated The Great Gatsby, which this has been compared to. But at least Nick Carraway was convincingly male. ...more Immigrants or Trust Funds? \u201c<+++>Rules of Civility</+++>\u201d is a love story for a city. Specifically New York City during the last few years of the 1930\u2019s. That\u2019s not to say that Towles's characters aren\u2019t fully realized. They are. In fact the dialog is outstanding. When a character opens their mouth you know immediately if they haunt the docks or Park Avenue. At one point the three principle protagonists are out larking and sneak into a Marx Brothers movie. Think of how exaggerated the accents and mannerisms Immigrants or Trust Funds? \u201cRules of Civility\u201d is a love story for a city. Specifically New York City during the last few years of the 1930\u2019s. That\u2019s not to say that Towles's characters aren\u2019t fully realized. They are. In fact the dialog is outstanding. When a character opens their mouth you know immediately if they haunt the docks or Park Avenue. At one point the three principle protagonists are out larking and sneak into a Marx Brothers movie. Think of how exaggerated the accents and mannerisms are in those movies\u2026.much to our amusement. This is exactly what \u201cRules\u201d dialog isn\u2019t. It\u2019s distinct but real. \u201cRules\u201d has an energy that\u2019s exhilarating. Blood pounds as people and City and an era collide. There is a blend of secretaries, bankers, day traders, party girls, lost boys, doormen, waitresses, cultures, a blend of 15th and 2nd generation Americans all dreaming their dreams and banging into one another. 4.5/5 ...more This is the rare example of a book that makes you appreciate the art of writing. It is indeed remarkable that this first time author has created a debut novel that succeeds in every way. Mr. Towles has crafted a true masterpiece. This stylish, elegant and deliberately anachronistic debut novel transports readers back to Manhattan in 1938, where authentic, human characters inhabit a playground that comes alive with the manners of a society on the verge of radical upheaval. This book is art deco, j This is the rare example of a book that makes you appreciate the art of writing. It is indeed remarkable that this first time author has created a debut novel that succeeds in every way. Mr. Towles has crafted a true masterpiece. This stylish, elegant and deliberately anachronistic debut novel transports readers back to Manhattan in 1938, where authentic, human characters inhabit a playground that comes alive with the manners of a society on the verge of radical upheaval. This book is art deco, jazz clubs, martinis and Long Island mansions. The story is told in long flashback, from the hindsight of 30 years beyond the events of 1938, the narrator reminisces on events and people who contributed to a turning point in her life. Told from the vantage point of an older woman, looking back at the year when forces converged in her life, this is the story of a young lady determined to make her fortune in Manhattan. While reading this, I realized that I have never and would never have as much talent to write as well as Mr. Towles does here. One pet peeve I have is the author chose not to use quotation marks in dialogue. It is very annoying and did take some getting used to. Why writers (and editors for that matter) approve of this method is confounding. Also, as rich and colorful as Mr. Towles writing is, occasionally he overdoes the verbosity. Case in point, page 263: \"I looked up and down Second Avenue like a wolf that's escaped from it's cage. I checked my watch. The hands were splayed between the nine and three, like two duelers back to back who have counted off paces and are about to turn and fire.\" The true test of any story is if the author made you care about his characters? Mr. Towles has succeeded in both painting a rich, colorful and vibrant picture of 1930's New York, as well as creating real and authentic characters that come to life for us to revel in their company. If I have failed to convey just how much I admire Amor Towles writing, let me share this. Initially, I checked this book out from the library (3 times), then checked out the Audio CD (masterfully read by Rebecca Lowman), and then finally purchased my own hardcover copy (paying full retail price I might add!) This book will remain in my personal library and will be reread again with great pleasure. ...more New Year\u2019s Eve 1937, Katey Kontent and Evelyn Ross meet handsome, well-heeled Tinker Grey at a bar and they see in 1938 together. They make resolutions for one another...and one of those resolutions is to get \u201cout of your ruts.\u201d Well, this chance meeting shakes up all their lives and not a rut is left when 1938 whistles itself into history. With New York City as a delicious backdrop, Katey navigates both the heights of society and the working class world, and along the way she learns a lot about New Year\u2019s Eve 1937, Katey Kontent and Evelyn Ross meet handsome, well-heeled Tinker Grey at a bar and they see in 1938 together. They make resolutions for one another...and one of those resolutions is to get \u201cout of your ruts.\u201d Well, this chance meeting shakes up all their lives and not a rut is left when 1938 whistles itself into history. With New York City as a delicious backdrop, Katey navigates both the heights of society and the working class world, and along the way she learns a lot about herself and her fellow travelers. Towles writes enchantingly flawed characters. No goody-goody, unrealistic, cookie-cutter cliches here, and I liked that. Atmospherically, there is something of Fitzgerald in this novel. I made the comparison and then found that many others had done the same. However, there is nothing derivative about either the writing or the story...it is just that sense of a world that is partying on its surface and boiling underneath. There is the looming threat of World War II, which is mentioned in passing, but which permeates all the joviality, because, as an audience, we know that what follows the recovery from the depression is a party that is only momentary, ending in massive losses on battlefields abroad. Early in the novel, Katey observes, It wasn\u2019t about who had dibs now or who was sitting next to whom in the cinema. The game had changed; or rather, it wasn\u2019t a game at all anymore. It was a matter of making it through the night, which is often harder than it sounds, and always a very individual business.\u201d This quote summed up a lot for me, for the story is, if nothing else, about the struggle of the individuals to find their place in society, to make trade-offs they can live with, to grasp the right things and the right people. In the end, making it through the night and waking to a morning where you still appreciate a simple cup of coffee might be all that it is ever about for any of us. A Gentleman in Moscow was one of my favorite reads in 2016, and Rules of Civility has proved to me that Amor Towles is the real thing. All the happenstance in the world could not have produced two such different and yet so captivating novels. I will put my money down every time Towles writes something new. ...more This book was strange for me, at points, it was a 5, at other points a 1. There were passages (usually not parts of the narrative, but Katy's aphorisms - presumably the product of her middle-aged mind looking back) that moved me nearly to tears. These little nuggets are Katy's own \"Rules of Civility\" and they made the book worth reading. (E.g., \"Right choices are the means by which life crystallizes loss.\"). But those little tidbits are not the bulk of this quite plotty pacey novel, which is a fa This book was strange for me, at points, it was a 5, at other points a 1. There were passages (usually not parts of the narrative, but Katy's aphorisms - presumably the product of her middle-aged mind looking back) that moved me nearly to tears. These little nuggets are Katy's own \"Rules of Civility\" and they made the book worth reading. (E.g., \"Right choices are the means by which life crystallizes loss.\"). But those little tidbits are not the bulk of this quite plotty pacey novel, which is a fairy tale about a mad cap girl with a fairy tale name (Katey Kontent) in a fairy tale New York of 1938, where Bentleys prowl the streets, all the women are beautiful, all the boys are plucky, the furs are furry, the jewels chandelier sized, the cocktails ever flowing, the underclasses ably represented by a bosomy wisecracking Italian girl from Jersey and several kindly Negro workers and musicians, and the Depression mumbles by at a safe remove as we get lovingly detailed tours of the hangouts of moneyed New York then and now (the Beresford, the 21 Club, the bar at the St. Regis, the Plaza, the University Club, Long Island, \"camps\" upstate...). What's wrong with that, you say? Isn't a fun fairytale, with a few good plot twists, some soapy love stories, and a crafty villainess, worth the candle? Well, yes, and no one loves time-travel voyeurism with lush descriptions of meals, clothes and d\u00e9cor more than me. (See also, The Age of Innocence and Mad Men (but more on the latter, later)). And if that were all that Rules of Civility was meant to be - a frothy little cocktail for a summer's night - it might leave a saccharine taste in your mouth, but it wouldn't irk, or leave a sense of hollowness, as ultimately this book did for me. In the end, Rules DID remind me of Mad Men, more than Age of I or House of Mirth or the Great Gatsby, all of which had self-conscious echoes in this novel. Both Mad Men and Rules indulge my desire for trans-decade New York lifestyle porn, mostly of the well to do, as well as my arch sense of knowingness at getting the landmarks, the signposted history, the name-dropping literary tie-ins, but I find both cold at the core, with a cipher for a hero/ine. I feel a bit sad and worse for wear after visiting these worlds. Katy, like Don Draper, is a woman with a new name and without a past. And this is a fundamental problem for the novel. We're told at the beginning that New York is a place where \"Katyas become Katies\", and while we're never told as much, we imagine that Kontent (a wonderful fairy tale name) is also a shortening of some unwieldy Russian surname (the inverse of Gatz to Gatsby, one imagines). But while viewers who persevere will eventually learn how and why Dick became Don, the more historically common but still interesting transformation of Katya to Katy is never explored. You spend the whole novel waiting for more than perfunctory references to Brooklyn, her immigrant laborer father and MIA mother, as well as for some insight into the amazing labor of reconstruction needed to make that bookish Brooklyn ethnic working class girl into the toast of WASP society, capable of making not only 4 (count 'em -4!) scions of highborn families (albeit one down on his luck) fall in love with her, but also (far more credulity stretching) of winning the social acceptance and trust of those scions' assorted female friends and relations. You will wait in vain, however, because despite the early acknowledgement of this transformation, Rules ends up asking us to take on fairy-tale faith that Cinderella can go to the ball, that a plucky Katya can shed the accent, learn the mannerisms and pole vault her way into the world of the Social Register with nary a wrong fork, social faux pas, cold shoulder or cutting remark. Similarly, despite the framing of the novel as being rooted in Walker Evans' photos of Depression-era working class commuters and the early discussion of the Depression and its \"hunger and hopelessness\", the novel is ultimately ahistorical, or at least set in a pleasant social register (no caps this time) where the Depression doesn't intrude. This is part of what creates the feeling that reading the novel is like over-indulging in candy - it's all fun and games in this make-believe version of 1930s New York, and again, that's OK, as far as it goes, but it prevents the novel from being multi-dimensional and more meaningful. To close on a personal note: in the 1930s, both sets of my grandparents were young adults in New York, constructing their own bridges out of the working class. Like Katie, all 4 were the children of immigrants, some from Russia, all were smart, bookish, motivated. Unlike Katie, no one ever invited them to tea at the Ritz. They ended up accomplishing a lot, but their Brooklyn accent with the ghost of Yiddish behind it marked them as far from blue blood their entire lives. So did their memories of Depression penury, which, combined with their inherited shtetl thriftiness, made them suspicious of conspicuous consumption to their dying days. Of course, Katie wasn't Jewish, and it was certainly possible to cross great social divides - show girls became duchesses and the like, but there should be a story - more than a fairy tale - there, and because there isn't, Rules of Civility disappointed me in the end. ...more Rating 3.5 There is a movie by Woody Allen, Midnight in Paris (awesome movie), that many say 'its a love letter to Paris'. A love letter to a particular time in history, the roaring 20s, where many literary and artistic people socialized. The Rules of Civility, I felt, was Towles love affair. His love affair with New York city, his love affair with the late 30s, and his love of literature. The story follows Katey Kontent (really?) who is twenty five, living in New York's Greenwich Village, moving Rating 3.5 There is a movie by Woody Allen, Midnight in Paris (awesome movie), that many say 'its a love letter to Paris'. A love letter to a particular time in history, the roaring 20s, where many literary and artistic people socialized. The Rules of Civility, I felt, was Towles love affair. His love affair with New York city, his love affair with the late 30s, and his love of literature. The story follows Katey Kontent (really?) who is twenty five, living in New York's Greenwich Village, moving along and socializing with various types in the late 30's. In the blurb, it also talks about Tinker Grey and her friend Eve and that fateful evening. But I did not think they were central to the story. I wanted to hear more of this trio but the story focuses on Katey, and all those people that cross her path. Yes, many of whom she would have never met, had it not been for that meeting with Tinker Grey. I liked the story, but wanted to like it more. Not too much really happens with Katey, other than meeting some rich folks, socializing, and trying to get ahead in life, all while trying to maintain a sense of elegance. At first, I loved all the literary references, but then it became too much. There is no doubt that Towles can write, and write vivid descriptions of times and places. I look forward to reading more from him. I listened to this one via audio and it was great. The narrator is one that I have heard before and she did not disappoint. Overall, I'm glad I have finally read this one, but doubt it will stick with me. ...more I waffled between a one or two star rating, but I'm not feeling particularly generous today, so one star it is. Basically: upper-class middle-aged man tries to write as/about working-class young woman. And fails. I think I enjoyed about the first twenty pages of this one, and the rest just fell utterly flat. First of all, the main character (with the terrible name of Katey Kontent) was completely unconvincing and not at all compelling. It's rare that men can write convincingly in a female voice, I waffled between a one or two star rating, but I'm not feeling particularly generous today, so one star it is. Basically: upper-class middle-aged man tries to write as/about working-class young woman. And fails. I think I enjoyed about the first twenty pages of this one, and the rest just fell utterly flat. First of all, the main character (with the terrible name of Katey Kontent) was completely unconvincing and not at all compelling. It's rare that men can write convincingly in a female voice, but it can be done ( She's Come Undone by Wally Lamb is one example of a male author writing in a believable female voice). Not by Amor Towles, though, apparently. Katey was basically everything - a party girl, but also very serious and a hard worker, gregarious and super friendly, but also stoic and reserved...so she was basically nothing. There was no personality, no interesting flaws or redeeming characteristics. The whole story is viewed through her perspective and this is basically her story, and yet I finished the book feeling like I didn't know her at all. Additionally, I felt that Katey's working-class background was...unlikely? She was much too readily accepted into the elite circles and much too integrated into that lifestyle to have actually come from impoverished working-class roots. I'm going to attribute this issue to the fact that the author grew up in East Coast suburbs and went to the Ivy Leagues - my guess is he's grown up too close to those elite circles to actually see how snobby and exclusive (and racist and sexist) they can be. Towles also had this super obnoxious habit of going off into pretentious tangents about classic literature...basically worshipping works of the Great White Man Authors (Hemingway, Thoreau, Dickens...) while shitting all over female writers (Austen, Woolf, Buck). No one cares about your page-long analysis of Walden , Mr. Towles, so perhaps you could hush up and get on with the story. Others have complimented the writing style, but personally I wasn't impressed. I thought it was overwritten. Heavy on the style, light on the substance. I know this was compared to Fitzgerald (another author of whom I am not fond) and I can see why, but it's a pale imitation. The plot itself was generally weak. Nothing about the plot is particularly new or original. It starts out kind of interesting but quickly flatlines. The romances were all tepid. I hated the name Tinker for the banker/(SPOILER)manstress (male version of mistress). So yeah, can you tell I didn't care for this one much? I feel like I've been too harsh and bitchy in this review, but what can I say? Something about this book rubbed me the wrong way. Read something else, this one isn't worth it. ...more In summary, I loved listening to this audiobook. Why? First of all, this book is a must for anyone who loves NYC. Secondly, almost every line refers to places and books and artists. There is a wonderful message. The author is a master of metaphor. Most every sentence implies more than the bare words. One example: Katey pronounces her surname Kon-TENT. Don't you see the difference between that and KON-tent? Think about it. The plot throws you a looper. The characters become real people .In the be In summary, I loved listening to this audiobook. Why? First of all, this book is a must for anyone who loves NYC. Secondly, almost every line refers to places and books and artists. There is a wonderful message. The author is a master of metaphor. Most every sentence implies more than the bare words. One example: Katey pronounces her surname Kon-TENT. Don't you see the difference between that and KON-tent? Think about it. The plot throws you a looper. The characters become real people .In the beginning I wondered if the different characters' actions were believable. Yes, they most certainly were. People are complicated. As with real people it takes a while to understand these characters. By the end of the novel each one is very special, each in their own way. And finally there is subtle, sophisticated humor. Absolutely excellent narration by Rebecca Lowman. The title of this book refers to George Washington's penmanship assignment entitled \"Rules of Civility & Decent Behavior in Company and Conversation\". Are you curious for more? Look here: ( http://www.foundationsmag.com/civilit... ) These 110 rules are listed at the end of the book, but I did not read them.... The title is very apt, for this book is all about to what purpose these rules should be followed. This book is all about the choices each of us makes in determining our fate, because we do make choices. Our fate is not predestined. ****************** Oh, what I wouldn't do to go shopping at Bendel's. I can dream it still exists and is still the same? **************** Through Chapter 9: Why have I not grabbed this book sooner?! It is not just good, it is really good. This book is for those people who demand books that are well written. Exciting plots are not enough. You know there are those books that are fun because the plot keeps you hanging on. Then there are those books which are fabulous because every line has you thinking, not about the plot, but about what is described, the place, the people, or how a character is responding, or how would I react in that situation. I am not saying the plot doesn't move forward, I am merely saying what happens isn't that necessary because the writing in itself keeps you thinking. I love the writing. So what is it I love? I wrote below that the author superbly describes NYC. By that I do not mean what you see, but what you feel when you are there in that place. There is a static electricity in the air that is NYC. There is the honking of the cabs, there are the dark summer nights, there is the hot, sticky air in the summer. These things that I mention here are NOT described in this book, but this author has found all the other characteristics of this city that are so hard to capture. I thought this was a nostalgia trip for me...... but it is more than that. Amor Towles describes places and events that I have never experienced, and I feel I am there too! An example, the Belmont race-tracks. Katey is there at 5 A.M. on a weekday. There you find the down and out, those who bet with their last dime, the wealthy, those who own horses and have a stake in the outcomes, the trainers... Each sit in their own places. Each is described with similes so that you see in which group each one belongs. How they hold their bodies, how they move, where they sit, how they are clothed, what they are eating and drinking - all of this you see. You feel the excitement. This is NOT done through boring descriptions. It is done through wonderful similes and metaphors so you understand and know immediately how a person almost feels because you recognize the visions conjured by the metaphors. This book is filled with the words\"like\" and \"as if\". It is filled with gorgeous metaphors that you snap up immediately. That is the author's trick..... But this is no easy trick. How has the author known how to capture those hunched shoulders? Where else is that shoulder held with that hunch so that readers will recognize it immediately? Then Towles puts it there for us in his metaphor. Back to the race tracks. They are referred to as \"Race-Arounds\". What a wonderful expression. There are hunched backs, then straightened backs released as if on a spring when the horses surprise. Hands grip cups where \"the absence of steam said the cup was filled with liquor\". You smell the paddocks. And here, as elsewhere, what you see is compared to the lines of famous literature. It was like \"circles of Dante's Inferno\". Over and over again there are reference to artists and authors and photographers and books you have read. You remember these books or that painting and you know exactly what is expressed. This is a book for the literate, the well-educated. It is certainly for the well-read. It not only captures the jazz clubs of the 30s, but also art trends, the secretarial girls, literature and even butterfly collections! Eve is compared to the portraits of John Singer Sargent. Doesn't that draw a picture for you? Another thought.... How has this author so well captured the essence of his female characters? Is there some women here on the sidelines? So, I am terribly enjoying this book for how it us written. The events are rather insignificant for me; sometimes I do wonder would people make such decisions? Would it happen like that? But I have only read nine chapters. Maybe I will change my mind about that too. I am beginning to figure out who these people are: Tinker and Katey and Eve. We are talking 1938, NYC. Tinker is from the well-to-do. Eve and Katey are scratching the dirt, but Eve is never one to be under another's thumb, as she clearly states at the very beginning. One is from Brooklyn with Russian immigrant parents.That is Katey. The other is from the Midwest. What is intriguing is that I am sure there is more to understand about these three disparate figures. Who is the social climber? Katey is the erudite blue-collar worker, a stenographer at a law firm, but under the exterior who is she? How are they similar? How do they differ....... and this is a friendship of three! That never works. Who really loves who? I like the narration by Rebecca Lowman. Her voice is a perfect balance to the struggles of the the three. There are struggles. ************************ Well, I definitely love the way NYC is described. I lived there. It has a special feel to it. You go into that city and you feel it in the air. You feel that when you read this book. It makes me terribly nostalgic. There are so many details that perfectly capture the atmosphere of the place - the cabs, the sounds, Greenwich Village, the restaurants, the food. Each aspect is perfectly depicted with a simile that strikes home perfectly. Gosh, I am amazed. I was so worried when I started this book.... ...more So much has been said about this book here and elsewhere that I'm not sure what else to add. I did love this book for many reasons: The sense of time and place, the wonderful use of language (love the use of metaphor), sparkling dialog and internal narration, and wonderful descriptions of New York City itself that raise its presence to another character. We have all lived through our twenties (or most of us through most of that decade). So much happens, so many decisions are made that impact our So much has been said about this book here and elsewhere that I'm not sure what else to add. I did love this book for many reasons: The sense of time and place, the wonderful use of language (love the use of metaphor), sparkling dialog and internal narration, and wonderful descriptions of New York City itself that raise its presence to another character. We have all lived through our twenties (or most of us through most of that decade). So much happens, so many decisions are made that impact our future lives whether we realize it or not. And in New York City, especially Manhattan, in that struggling decade of the 1930s, Towles has found a great story to tell and I plan to read it again. ...more Entertaining - light but not fluffy - what it does best is capture the high drama of being a New Yorker during the late 30\u2019s. A city where the upper class live large and lavish, hang out in jazz bars, frequent hotels like The Plaza & Essex House and generally fritter their lives away drinking & smoking up a storm. Katey Kontent, a social climber extraordinaire and her flaky friend Eve hobnob with rich elitists with names like (seriously) Tinker, Dicky & Bitsy\u2026 Throw in a bitter strug Entertaining - light but not fluffy - what it does best is capture the high drama of being a New Yorker during the late 30\u2019s. A city where the upper class live large and lavish, hang out in jazz bars, frequent hotels like The Plaza & Essex House and generally fritter their lives away drinking & smoking up a storm. Katey Kontent, a social climber extraordinaire and her flaky friend Eve hobnob with rich elitists with names like (seriously) Tinker, Dicky & Bitsy\u2026 Throw in a bitter struggling artist straddling the fence between two worlds as he rejects the trappings of wealth for the glory of art. For spice deception is the novel\u2019s core, seems like no one is who they appear to be. Impressive debut from a Boston boy who graduated from Yale & Stanford, obviously comfortable writing about the world of the privileged. Sparkly dialog, interesting characters, great period piece. I like that he\u2019s going for a \u2018Great Gatsby\u2019 / \u201cBreakfast at Tiffany\u2019s\u201d flavor even if he doesn\u2019t quite pull it off - this is his 1st novel after all. Cons : Because Amor never makes up his mind on Katey\u2019s character she ends up muddled rather than multi-faceted, plus he really needs to work on portraying the feminine voice. Her calculated detachment came across masculine in tone, her various love affairs passionless (view spoiler) [in all fairness she does get pretty excited when Tinker Grey walks into The Hotspot wearing an expensive camel haired coat (hide spoiler) ] 3 \u00bd stars rounded to 4 \u201cPart of the joy of Dicky was the ableness with which he flitted from moment to moment and topic to topic like a sparrow in a hurricane of crumbs.\u201d \u201cFor what was civilization but the intellect\u2019s ascendancy out of the doldrums of necessity - shelter, sustenance & survival - into the ether of the finely superfluous - poetry, handbags and haute cuisine?\u201d ...more It's really hard to put my finger on what made me like Rules of Civility so much. I'm partial to debut novels and their authors so when 4 to 5 star reviews started pouring in on GoodReads for this book, I quickly added it to my list. The setting of New York, the city would not normally make me clamor to read this book, but the 1938 New York that Rules of Civility depicts captured me right away. I can only believe this is due to Amor Towles ability as a writer. The story seems fairly simple. Two It's really hard to put my finger on what made me like Rules of Civility so much. I'm partial to debut novels and their authors so when 4 to 5 star reviews started pouring in on GoodReads for this book, I quickly added it to my list. The setting of New York, the city would not normally make me clamor to read this book, but the 1938 New York that Rules of Civility depicts captured me right away. I can only believe this is due to Amor Towles ability as a writer. The story seems fairly simple. Two young working girls with limited funds, Katey & Eve, are out for some fun on New Year's Eve when they meet the dapper, rich Tinker Grey. An unlikely friendship forms amongst the three and they find themselves having grand good times together. Two's company, three's a crowd, soon seems evident to Katey, however. From here on in the story belongs to Katey and it's a richly told tale. Wealth, class, friendships, loyalty are all explored with the New York jazz scene playing in the background. I almost forgot to mention where Towles got his title inspiration...a list of social maxims put together by George Washington in his teenage years, Rules of Civility & Decent Behaviour in Company and Conversation, Consider the first of the 110 that are reprinted in the appendix and one of my favorites: \"1st Every Action done in Company, ought to be with Some Sign of Respect, to those that are Present.\" Good characters and a story that flows easily make this a debut a winner for me. ...more Rereading this wonderful book, just for fun and joy! Better the second time around. Just like watching a movie the second time, you get to see all those little details you missed the first time, and just wonder, how you didn't catch that! Read it again! \u2014Oh stop, Eve said. It\u2019s dreadful. What is it? \u2014Virginia Woolf. \u2014Ugh. Tinker brought home all these novels by women as if that\u2019s what I needed to get me back on my feet. He\u2019s surrounded my bed with them. It\u2019s as if he\u2019s planning to brick me in. Isn\u2019t there anything else? Rules of Civility left me cold. I did not hate it, I did not like, I certainly did not love it as much as other people, including a lot of readers whose reviews I value, loved this book. I don't even know whether it was the detache \u2014Oh stop, Eve said. It\u2019s dreadful. What is it? \u2014Virginia Woolf. \u2014Ugh. Tinker brought home all these novels by women as if that\u2019s what I needed to get me back on my feet. He\u2019s surrounded my bed with them. It\u2019s as if he\u2019s planning to brick me in. Isn\u2019t there anything else? Rules of Civility left me cold. I did not hate it, I did not like, I certainly did not love it as much as other people, including a lot of readers whose reviews I value, loved this book. I don't even know whether it was the detached voice of Katey Kontent that made me feel nothing about anything in this book or whether it was the embellished detail of 1930s jazziness that got on my nerves and made me look hard for another aspect of the book that I could get into. Something like a plot or an interesting character. Or at least one that did not feel like a cardboard cut-out. I may have detested F.S. Fitzgerald's main characters, but at least they were memorable. I may have disliked Evelyn Waugh's tone and snobbishness, but at least his books carried an air of authenticity by attempting to be satire. I don't even know what the book was trying to do. Nope, Rules of Civility just did not work for me. ...more What were you afraid of as a kid? What did you always want that your parents never gave you? If you could be anyone for a day, who would you be? If you could relive one year in your life, which one would you be? Strangers in the night, two girls and a young man, meet and try to discover each other through a little game of 'what if ...' Sounds like my GR friend Dan and his Ongoing Security Question Quiz, or like that running gag in The Way We Were when Robert Redford picks up the best of every What were you afraid of as a kid? What did you always want that your parents never gave you? If you could be anyone for a day, who would you be? If you could relive one year in your life, which one would you be? Strangers in the night, two girls and a young man, meet and try to discover each other through a little game of 'what if ...' Sounds like my GR friend Dan and his Ongoing Security Question Quiz, or like that running gag in The Way We Were when Robert Redford picks up the best of everything he experienced. For Katherine Kontent (call her Kate or Katey, never Kathy), the year she relives through the pages of the present novel is 1938 and the place is Manhattan in its full pre-war regalia. Sophisticated, witty, funny, bittersweet, elegant, lyrical, caustic, self-reliant, Katey swept me off my feet right from the start: a prologue set in 1966, at a Walker Evans vernissage for his famous subway portraits. Katey recognizes one of the faces, captured twice in contrasting circumstances : one as an affluent banker, the other as a tramp. Will this be a version of Rich Man, Poor Man soap opera? 'No, not exactly!' answers Katey as she takes us back to the last night of 1937. Look at them: Kate Konstant and Eve Ross, pennyless but filled with lust for life, two single working girls in the big city, sharing a room in a rundown hostel, spending their last dimes on drinks and cigarettes in an underground bar in the Village, looking like starlight with limbs . In walks a young man in an expensive cashemre coat and with a monogrammed gold lighter. They hit it off instantly, conversation sparkling brighter than champagne. Out in the streets the snow tranforms the city into a fairytale realm and 1938 is ushered in with 'Auld Lang Syne' and a snowball fight. But which girl will end up with the saucy Tinker? and will their friendship prove stronger than budding romance? Pretty soon the rom-com vibe takes a sharp turn into a darker alley, and inclement weather ( the approaching war in Europe, the still felt repercursions of the Great Depression, the daily slog of earning a living, the broken hearts and fallen idols) threatens the smooth sailing of girls' ship. I liked the Eve part of the story, the rich girl from Midwest who runs away from home to make it on her own in the metropolis, but it was Katey I rooted for all the time. A no-nonsense, practical and intelligent young woman of Slavic stock from New Jersey, ambitious and hard working, sarcastic yet kind and loyal, she is the kind of dreamer who doesn't give up when life gives her lemons, she goes out and fights for what she wants. (view spoiler) [ best example is her quitting the safe but soul destroying secretarial job instead of accepting a promotion. (hide spoiler) ] . And she's an avid reader, which is a sure way to please a GR book nerd like me : Katey's the hottest bookworm you'll ever meet. If you took all the books that she's read and piled them in a stack, you could climb to the Milky Way. Books and reading, music, painting, photography, art in general plays a crucial role all through the story, as each street corner in Manhattan, each Central Park alley or penthouse apartment is enriched and defined by the spirit of the artists who lived and loved and created the personality of the city. Some references are direct, others are hidden in plain view like Easter Eggs for the reader to discover. From the house of Edith Warton to parties in the upper state luxury estates of Gatsby fame, from the birth of be-bop in after hours jam sessions with Bird and Coltrane to mornings in front of Fifth Avenue luxury shops as a Holly Golightly alter ego, from a secret Ukrainian vaudeville bar to an old fashioned Irish house (GOOD ALE, RAW ONIONS, NO LADIES) - Katey takes us on an incredible cultural journey through the true heart of Manhattan. Here are few of her literary gems: Powdered with snow, Washington Square looked as lovely as it could. The snow had dusted every tree and gate. The once tony brownstones that on summer days now lowered their gaze in misery were lost for the moment in sentimental memories. At No. 25, a curtain on the second floor was drawn back and the ghost of Edith Wharton looked out with shy envy. Sweet, insightful, unsexed, she watched the three of us pass wondering when the love that she had so artfully imagined would work up the courage to rap on her door. When would it present itself at an inconvenient hour, insist upon being admitted, brush past the butler and rush up the Puritan staircase urgently calling her name? --- At the back of the club, looming over a small empty dance floor, a jazz quartet was playing loved-me-and-left-me standards without a vocalist. The saxophonist, a mournful giant with skin as black as motor oil, had apparently lost his way in the labyrinth of one of his long lonely solos. --- Winter, Spring, Summer, Fall, I always looked forward to the unveiling of the new seasons at Bergdorf's. Standing before the windows, you felt like a tsarina receiving one of those jeweled eggs in which an elaborate scene in miniature has been painstakingly assembled. With one eye closed you spy inside, losing all sense of time as you marvel at every transporting detail. Books are not simply a refuge from reality or a convenient way to flesh out the cultural background of the story. They define and motivate the actors, as seen in a snappy catfight between Katey and socialite heiress Ann Grandyn: - You're rather well read for a working-class girl. - Really? I've found that all my well-read friends are from the working classes. - Oh my. Why do you think that is? The purity of the poverty? - No. It's just that reading is the cheapest form of entertainment. - Sex is the cheapest form of entertainment. - Not in this house. or in Tinker's most precious possession, a book from his childhood that not only explains his personality, but provides also the title of the novel: Rules of Civility @ Decent Behaviour in Company and Conversation . If this piece of George Washington memorabilia describes Tinker's aspirations at gentlemanly behaviour, Katey's pick for a desert island companion is Walden by Henry David Thoreau: the only book in which infinity can be found on every page. . The aspirations of Thoreau for simplicity and harmony with nature and with oneself can be identified as the source of Katey's equanimity and strength of purpose, for her self-reliance and her bounce back resilience after each knock down. I've bookmarked a couple of examples, out of many: Uncompromising purpose and the search for eternal truth have an unquestionable sex appeal for the young and high-minded; but when a person loses the ability to take pleasure in the mundane - in the cigarette on the stoop or the gingersnap in the bath - she has probably put herself in unnecessary danger. What my father was trying to tell me, as he neared the conclusion of his own course, was that this risk should not be treated lightly: One must be prepared to fight for one's simple pleasures and to defend them against elegance and erudition and all manner of glamorous enticements. --- But for me, dinner at a fine restaurant was the ultimate luxury. It was the very height of civilization. For what was civilization but the intellect's ascendancy out of the doldrums of necessity (shelter, sustenance and survival) into the ether of the finely superfluous (poetry, handbags and haute cuisine)? I have tried to avoid spoilers by saying as little as possible about the way the romantic life of Katey, Eve and Tinker develops all through the year 1938, who ends up with whom, who runs away, who is left stranded on the shore. Yet I am left with another batch of quotes that I would hate to throw away, as they are illustrative of the splendid prose and subtle use of metaphor in the text. So, no names, just snapshots that I throw your way like paper airplanes (you'll get the reference when you read the book) : Dear Sir, If you would be so kind, please play us your interpretation of \"It's De-Lovely\". For is it not de-lightful to-nightful? Your Moonstruck Neighbors --- The romantic interplay that we were having wasn't the real game - it was a modified version of the game. It was a version invented for two friends so that they can get some practice and pass the time divertingly while they wait in the station for their train to arrive. NOTE : this particular game referenced here is called 'honeymoon bridge' , and is a simplified version of the four hands deal, to be played by two. As a bridge afficionado myself, I can't wait to give it a spin ( It was an ingenuous little game. *** had played it with his grandfather on rainy days in the Adirondacks. Here's how it works: You place the shuffled deck on the table. Your opponent draws the top card and then has two options: He can keep the card, look at the second one and discard it face down; or he can discard the first card and keep the second one. Then it's your turn. The two of you go back and forth in this manner until the deck is exhausted, at which point you each hold thirteen cards, having discarded thirteen - giving the game an unusually elegant balance between intention and chance. ) --- Like two teenagers who've struck up a friendship on a cross-Atlantic steamer, we raced to trade reminiscences and insights and dreams before reaching port. My friend Dolors ended her recent review with a reference to the night sky over Manhattan, probably the most enticing and enduring iconic moment of the novel. It was already on my bucket list of places to visit at some point in the future. Amor Towles added yet another reason to get there and try to follow in the steps of Katey, Eve and Tinker: From the end of the pier he could see the city skyline in its entirety - the whole staggered assembly of townhouses and warehouses and skyscrapers stretching from Washington Heights to the Battery. Nearly every light in every window in every building seemed to be shimmering and tenuous - as if powered by the animal spirits within - by the arguments and endeavours, the whims and elisions. But here and there, scattered across the mosaic, were also the isolated windows that seemed to burn a little brighter and more constant - the windows lit by those few who acted with poise and purpose. He scuffed out his cigarette and decided to dwell out in the cold a little while longer. For however inhospitable the wind, from this vantage point Manhattan was simply so improbable, so wonderful, so obviously full of promise - that you wanted to approach it for the rest of your life without ever quite arriving. I've given I think enough reasons why I rated the book five stars. The fact that my own answer to the question at the beginning ('If you could relive one year in your life, which one would you be?') is 1986, and that that particular year's girl was a bookworm named Kathy, may explain why I added it also to my favorites list. link to a gallery of Walker Evans Subway Portraits: retronaut gallery Soundtrack suggestions: John Coltrane - Ballads Charlie Parker - Best of Wynton Marsalis - Standard Time vol. 3 Billie holliday - Greatest Hits Audrey Hepburn - Moon River ...more Amor Towles has his own beautiful style of writing and describing life: people's emotions, their reactions to art, food, each other, the struggles, the random events in the lives of 20 somethings that can then lead them in certain directions that sometimes last the rest of their lives. I sometimes wonder why authors decide to take on the role of the opposite sex, but Amor seems to do a great job of it with his girl Kate who comes to NYC from the midwest seeking her fortune. It's obvious that Amo Amor Towles has his own beautiful style of writing and describing life: people's emotions, their reactions to art, food, each other, the struggles, the random events in the lives of 20 somethings that can then lead them in certain directions that sometimes last the rest of their lives. I sometimes wonder why authors decide to take on the role of the opposite sex, but Amor seems to do a great job of it with his girl Kate who comes to NYC from the midwest seeking her fortune. It's obvious that Amor has real life experience working in NYC where he has observed the whole spectrum of life there: art, food, the wealthy, the conservative, the manipulative, the work ethic of the leaders, the social life of the blue collar versus the elite, the surprising things a lot of money can buy, and his descriptions of the world of NYC as the depression ends and then world war two starts is almost like time travel. More than anything, I enjoyed the relationships Kate had with many of her female friends along with some of her male buddies and bosses. Amor is a conservative writer, everything pretty much PG13, very enjoyable, kind of like television in the 50's and 60's. It seemed to make the story more realistic to me. Like his other book, \"A Gentleman in Moscow,\" there's no real plot, just the life of a talented, likable female living in Manhattan almost more of a very personal and excellent documentary than the traditional story telling in most fiction. It's one of those books that I'd give five stars to in many categories. A great read and right at this minute, I want to move to New York for a year. ...more I cannot possibly write a review that reflects the intelligence and sophistication of this book. Integrating art, photography and literature into his portrait of 1938 New York, Amor Towles also tells a great story about the choices made by one young woman -- Kate/Katey/Katherine Kontent, and her friends. Kate is smart, funny, unpredictable and determined, all qualities that make a fine heroine. But she's also imperfect, which makes her infinitely more interesting. Likewise the characters that int I cannot possibly write a review that reflects the intelligence and sophistication of this book. Integrating art, photography and literature into his portrait of 1938 New York, Amor Towles also tells a great story about the choices made by one young woman -- Kate/Katey/Katherine Kontent, and her friends. Kate is smart, funny, unpredictable and determined, all qualities that make a fine heroine. But she's also imperfect, which makes her infinitely more interesting. Likewise the characters that intersect her life in 1938 run the gamut from charismatic playboys to down on their luck artists -- few of whom make predictable choices. \"He always looked his best, I thought to myself, when circumstances called for him to be a boy and a man at the same time.\" Towles kept me on my toes throughout the novel -- no easy feat. Best of all, he evoked the time period seamlessly, making me feel I was on this journey along with Kate. I just loved it. ...more I just finished listening to this book - the debut of the author. I liked the story, the writing and how evocative of an era it was. It's told in the voice of Katey Kontent, a young woman finding her way in life in late 1930's New York City. I think why I liked it so much is that she encounters and forms relationships with diverse types of people and learns about life from these relationships and situations in which she finds herself. As in real life, things aren't always what they seem. The exp I just finished listening to this book - the debut of the author. I liked the story, the writing and how evocative of an era it was. It's told in the voice of Katey Kontent, a young woman finding her way in life in late 1930's New York City. I think why I liked it so much is that she encounters and forms relationships with diverse types of people and learns about life from these relationships and situations in which she finds herself. As in real life, things aren't always what they seem. The experience of reading Rules of Civility reminded me of The Paris Wife in that they immersed you in a bygone place and time. I didn't want this book to end! (I've been surprised by the reviews of this book in that it seems readers either loved it or hated it.) ...more As my friend Sue said in her review , so much has already been said about this novel (at least among my group of GR friends) that I'm not sure I have anything new to add. I can't think of an aspect of this book that isn't well-done. My friend Cynthia mentions in her review three of the characters viewing a Marx Brothers movie to point out that this story is not one of stereotypes. It is also at this point that I hoped the novel wouldn't be just a series of madcap adventures by three smart, kooky t As my friend Sue said in her review , so much has already been said about this novel (at least among my group of GR friends) that I'm not sure I have anything new to add. I can't think of an aspect of this book that isn't well-done. My friend Cynthia mentions in her review three of the characters viewing a Marx Brothers movie to point out that this story is not one of stereotypes. It is also at this point that I hoped the novel wouldn't be just a series of madcap adventures by three smart, kooky twenty-somethings and as soon as I hoped that, the plot and tone turned. Towles employs a wonderful sense of pacing throughout. My friend Anne in her review quotes some of my favorite passages, ones I had to reread before I moved on. And I too loved the literary allusions, especially, of course, those in relation to Dickens, though Thoreau's Walden and George Washington's Rules of Civility are more important to this story. One Dickens reference became quite relevant to the plot later on. I thought I saw it coming, but then I didn't see it coming. Despite all the accolades I and others have written, my friend Tajma's succinct review says it all. If not for my friends' reviews, I don't think I would have read this book and I thank them for this experience. ...more Well, it started out as a four-star, drifted down to three, and eventually thudded at two. Clearly I missed something, because beautiful sentences notwithstanding, this book just didn't do it for me. Katey Kontent, who really needed a subtler last name, is a 1930s single woman on her own working in a secretarial pool and living in a women's boardinghouse. On New Year's Eve, drinking with her roommate Eve, she meets the debonair Tinker Grey and becomes part of first one, then another, love triangl Well, it started out as a four-star, drifted down to three, and eventually thudded at two. Clearly I missed something, because beautiful sentences notwithstanding, this book just didn't do it for me. Katey Kontent, who really needed a subtler last name, is a 1930s single woman on her own working in a secretarial pool and living in a women's boardinghouse. On New Year's Eve, drinking with her roommate Eve, she meets the debonair Tinker Grey and becomes part of first one, then another, love triangle surrounding him. Over the course of this book Katey changes jobs and lovers and eventually comes to some difficult realizations about Tinker. That's about it. Okay, not really. Many reviewers praised this novel as a love story to the city of New York, which I guess it was. But those references kind of left me cold, and in the absence of a interesting characters or a gripping plot, the poetry was not much of a compensation. Once again, pay this old curmudgeon no mind because the vast majority of goodreads reviewers can't seem to praise this book enough. I was glad to finish it, though, and am still wondering exactly what all the hype was about. ...more I was actually hesitant about reading this book, and a chapter into it, I wasn't sure if I would continue. Checked some reviews and decided to slog on. So glad I did. Beautiful, beautiful writing; poetic and profound at times in its sentiment. The story takes place in 1938, and centres on the lives of three individuals: Katey, Tinker and Eve. Kate and Eve are room mates and in a chance meeting, they are introduced to Tinker Grey who in turn changes all of their lives. This is a tale of the elite I was actually hesitant about reading this book, and a chapter into it, I wasn't sure if I would continue. Checked some reviews and decided to slog on. So glad I did. Beautiful, beautiful writing; poetic and profound at times in its sentiment. The story takes place in 1938, and centres on the lives of three individuals: Katey, Tinker and Eve. Kate and Eve are room mates and in a chance meeting, they are introduced to Tinker Grey who in turn changes all of their lives. This is a tale of the elite of Manhatten, the very privileged alongside those who have to work for every penny, of the quick twists of fate and the opportunities life gives us, and the question of what , in the end, is the right choice in our lives. A wonderful, wonderful novel. Much to contemplate contrasting and comparing the 3 main characters once finished. Read it! ...more 4 1/2 if I could. What a wonderful book, tones of Fitzgerald but so much better. The words are beautiful, the writing fantastic. Three people, Evie, Katy and Tinker have an profound influence on each other, their relationships and many many secrets. First book so I just have to wait patiently for his next. Such a great feel for the Jazz Age. Rule #111: Speak no ill of a book that many have praised, though judge not its merits by how many have praised it. Okay, I made that rule up, so I'm free to break it. There are only 110 Rules of Civility which I'll include a link for at the end of this review. In the meantime, here's what I have to say about this book. It starts with two photos displayed amongst others in an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, in the year 1966. The photos, on opposite sides of the room, show the Rule #111: Speak no ill of a book that many have praised, though judge not its merits by how many have praised it. Okay, I made that rule up, so I'm free to break it. There are only 110 Rules of Civility which I'll include a link for at the end of this review. In the meantime, here's what I have to say about this book. It starts with two photos displayed amongst others in an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, in the year 1966. The photos, on opposite sides of the room, show the same man in two very different life circumstances, one version of him well-heeled, one version not. Is this a case of rags to riches as one character viewing the photos observes? Or is it a case of riches to rags as another character implies? But which version is the riches and which is the rags? Shouldn't it be obvious by how the man is dressed and how well-groomed or not he appears to be? That is for Katey Kontent to answer as she looks back in time and ponders the course of her life and how it colliding with others, including the man in the photo, has brought her to where she is now. Many years earlier, in the winter of 1937, Katey, 26, lived in a New York boardinghouse and pinched every penny, though her life was rich in other ways. She had a best friend, Eve, with whom she shared a room and shared having a good time, money or no money. There were always ways to get an evening's entertainment for free or to find others willing to pay for it, a case in point, Theodore \"Tinker\" Grey. Katey and Eve meet this somewhat shy and charming man in a third rate basement jazz club when he sits at an adjoining table and accidentally drapes his coat over a chair of theirs. Soon, he's buying them drinks and Eve has made it known she has dibs on him should things progress as she hopes. The three strike up an unlikely friendship that the events of one fateful night in December change. What happens next over the course of four seasons is a chain reaction as one person after the next sends Katey's life and the lives of those around her careening on and off the paths they have chosen, some of those paths leading to success, some not, depending on a person's definition of success. I rated this book three stars because while I enjoyed it in many ways, I was also disappointed by it. First the good. The writing was exceptional and firmly placed me in New York during the late 1930's, that time in history, the social setting, and the city itself woven seamlessly into the narrative. The writing was even lyrical or witty at times, which I appreciated. With the heaviness of the quilt weighing on my chest, I could feel every beat of my heart\u2014as if it was still keeping time, measuring the days like a metronome set somewhere on the finely graduated scale between impatience and serenity. For a while, I lay there listening to the house, to the wind outside, to the hoot of what must have been an owl. Then I finally fell asleep, listening for the footsteps that weren\u2019t going to come. When I got back to my place it was after five. In the apartment next door, I could hear the Zimmers sharpening their sarcasm. Over an early dinner, they chipped away at each other like little Michelangelos, placing every stroke of the mallet with care and devotion. The characters also interested me, all of them well-developed and very different from one another. But the main character, Katey Kontent, who had the most page time as narrator, interested me the least, which was a big drawback. She was likable on the surface, but I had a hard time caring about her. She seemed shallow and never drew me in on an emotional level. I was simply left to observe her merits and flaws, and her successes and failures, over a one year period and beyond. I found Katey to be not nearly as admirable and engaging as The Count was in A Gentleman in Moscow which I read recently and now have a new appreciation for. Rules of Civility lacked its inventiveness, too, with Katey's desire to climb the ladder of success a stereotypical working girl's dream with no new ground broken there or in the concept of fate intervening in the course of people's lives for better or worse. I would much rather the book had branched out and focused on other characters, too, such as Tinker and even Dicky, and certainly Eve, though I've read the author wrote more about her in short story form that he might expand on and publish as a full length novel in the future. So in short, I enjoyed the writing and characters, though from an emotional distance, yet I felt the book lacked a sense of profoundness and focus. It meandered through Katey's life, her life and other people's lives changing in dramatic or subtle ways. Perhaps this was realistic, but at the very least, I wished for more emotional attachment to the characters and some growth in Katey besides the balance of her bank account. As promised, here's a link for the \"Rules of Civility and Decent Behavior in Company and Conversation\" that a certain character put store in. The list was hand-copied by George Washington at the age of 16 as a class assignment and was based on a set of rules composed by French Jesuits in 1595. The rules range from hilarious in this day and age, though still useful, to very wise, especially the final rule which some characters in this book lived by and others did not: Labor to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire called conscience. http://www.foundationsmag.com/civilit... ...more I've developed a habit in my book reading of skimming through certain long descriptions, boring conversations, etc. in order to move ahead to more interesting parts. I would say this happens in nearly 100% of my books to one extent or another. But this book was the exception; there was no need for skimming whatsoever. I read every single, perfectly-placed word, and savored them all. I love a New York setting, love this time period (1930s), and I love Katey Kontent. She could do no wrong in my boo I've developed a habit in my book reading of skimming through certain long descriptions, boring conversations, etc. in order to move ahead to more interesting parts. I would say this happens in nearly 100% of my books to one extent or another. But this book was the exception; there was no need for skimming whatsoever. I read every single, perfectly-placed word, and savored them all. I love a New York setting, love this time period (1930s), and I love Katey Kontent. She could do no wrong in my book...or this book. She is a paradox but one that I think more of us can identify with than with Eve, her social climbing friend. Katey is just a surprisingly wonderful character, especially considering she's created by a first-time, male author. And what she did when given a certain apartment key--laugh out loud precious. I cannot name a single flaw - what an intelligent, fun, great story! ...more While the writing was crisp and fit well with the era and the characters, I was disappointed with the story. It was character-driven, which is usually fine with me, but the characters weren't interesting enough. I couldn't overcome what I felt was a shallow-ness to both the story and the characters. And the story felt too derivative: from Edith Wharton (House of Mirth) to Truman Capote (Breakfast at Tiffany's)and in the end, it left me feeling melancholy with no purpose.", "Title": "Rules of Civility"},
