{"Comments": "EDIT: 16/9/2012 I edited this review just a bit. It's an old review but I think I could have worded some things a little better. There were many Paranormal YA series where I couldn't possibly continue reading after the first book,<---M> but the Hush</---M>, Hush series is special. Despite the fact that yes, it is merely another abuse-glorifying panty-wetter, the unintentional hilarity just makes the books so much fun to read (<---B>in a twisted masochistic kinda way</---B>). <+++>Crescendo</+++> is like a bright shining star of heav EDIT: 16/9/2012 I edited this review just a bit. It's an old review but I think I could have worded some things a little better. There were many Paranormal YA series where I couldn't possibly continue reading after the first book, but the Hush, Hush series is special. Despite the fact that yes, it is merely another abuse-glorifying panty-wetter, the unintentional hilarity just makes the books so much fun to read (in a twisted masochistic kinda way). <+++>Crescendo</+++> is like a bright shining star of heaven compared to Hush, hush, because Crescendo gave me a favourite character, who is none other than Marcie Miller, the bitch who's out to get Nora. And anyone who's out to get Nora is a pal of mine. I also give Crescendo props for giving me an ending that assured some much needed ass kicking of Nora and Patch. I mean come on, apparently Patch doesn't screw Nora up enough, we may as well give them a run for their money big time, right? After dragging myself through that bullshit of a book, that ending actually made me very, very happy. But other than that, this book was still pretty freaking bad. Though not as unbearable to read as the first 'book', it was still a flaming piece of shit. I will give everyone a big piece of advice, and I must insist that you take it: DO NOT GET LOVE ADVICE FROM THIS BOOK. Crescendo teaches girls that if their boyfriend doesn't have a 24/7 arousal in his meat-sword as soon as he catches sight of her, it OBVIOUSLY must mean that he doesn't love her.<---F> Nora dumps Patch for this reason</---F>. I kid you not. Nora breaks up with Patch because she claims 'he doesn't feel it when she kisses him' even though Patch says it affects him emotionally (also he kinda can't 'feel it' because lust is a sin according to God, so it would get him in big doggy doo). But that apparently isn't enough for her so in a matter of ten seconds she conveniently compiles a list of all the things that she can't do with Patch around and dumps him (a list of differences which are never brought up again later in the story). Not too bad so far, right? I mean yeah, she's a twat who's missing at least three quarters of her brain, but at least she's rid of that douche bag, right? RIGHT? Not really. He's still there. We still have to read about him. A lot. After she dumps him she spends 80% having a tantrum about the break-up and oh how she misses him and oh how she hates him, but misses him, but hates him, and so on. And of course, like any moron missing most of their brain, she claims she should NEVUR have broken up with Patch because he's just so... darn... special. Well my darling dearest, if you don't want to dump him, then STOP dumping him! Just save us the pain from being dragged around your angst for 100 fucking pages and run on back to your potential rapist. See if we care if you end up dead in the forest with a cactus in your anus. I also couldn't help but notice that <---A>Becca Fitzpatrick</---A> seems to have had a change of heart about how she was going to write Patch in this book. Because for most of it she made Patch out to look like the top bastard of the bastard-Mafia and we should all feel sorry for Nora because she's being 'used and cheated on'. Well, where in the name of buggery was all of this in the first fucking book, when Patch really was the bastard of Scumville who sexually harassed her, intimidated her, emotionally and mentally AND sexually abused her? But in Becca-Fitzpatrickland, the worst thing Patch ever did to Nora was kissing Marcie. This is why no one takes you seriously, Fitzpatrick. Absolutely no one. You thought Edward Cullen was a creep, watching Bella sleep? Patch invades Nora's dreams when they've broken up for the fifteenth time to make-out with her. What a swell guy, amirite? Even Nora found it wrong. That's gotta say something. If Nora, and I do stress that I am talking about NORA, finds Patch's behaviour alarming, THAT'S ONE FUCK OF AN INDICATOR THAT THERE IS SOMETHING NOT RIGHT. He also purposely walks in on a make-out session between her and Scott -cough- or Jacob -cough cough- and punches the poor bastard square in the face despite Nora screaming at the top of her lungs. Also, keeping her 'father's' ring when she asked for it back after the breakup? Not cool. She may have broken up with you for stupid reasons, but you don't keep her dead father's ring when you're not the person she is closest to anymore. As mentioned before, I liked Marcie. Marcie was the only thing keeping me sane throughout the whole book. As I said in my review of Hush, hush, I support anyone tormenting Nora. I thought she was quite a badass, though it did piss me off that she was called a 'ho'. Just because she isn't afraid to express her sexuality, it doesn't make her a 'ho'. But that's another story. I didn't care much for Scott. He was obviously the typical third-wheel Jacob of this New moon copy, the guy who the girl uses to get back at the guy she is actually in love with. Though he had some interesting aspects to him, the fact that he was just the typical third wheel love interest prevented him from achieving both uniqueness and greatness. Also he just seemed like a recycled Elliot from the first book. Nora just wont stop being whiny and stupid. Plus, she stalks another guy. And she breaks into other people's homes and steals other people's stuff. How she is not already in a straight-jacket is beyond me. And as usual, she is also a hypocrite and one hell of a parasite. She uses Scott to get back at Patch and dares to preach how she is committed to a relationship when she is the one running from a relationship at the first signs of trouble. She manages to avoid serious jail time, and also somehow gets guys left, right and centre. Oh what a strange universe this is. But whatever, I honestly didn't care about her and Patch breaking up. The two are terrible for each other anyway. Nora can't live with him or without him, and Patch is psycho when she's around and when she isn't. Just move one to a different planet from the other and let them find someone else. If Nora had to end up with someone, it should have been Vee. Though Vee isn't that much smarter than Nora, the two mirror each other perfectly. They share the same insanity, interests, and stupidity. Together, they could make history. Plus that would have been hilarious to see. I would also like to point out that the archangels are stupid . Okay, like I said before, love and lust are totally mixed up in this book. It makes no sense that angels get sent to hell for falling in love with humans. 'Consorting with mortals' does not mean falling in love with mortals, it means wanting to have sex with mortals. I don't believe in God or Jesus or even angels, but I don't expect either of them to think of love as being a sin (if you're straight). I know lust is, apparently, and okay. Let's consider that. I mean, technically the archangels in this book consider lust a sin and something you get sent to hell for. Yet there are so many moments that they don't seem to notice. Patch gets away with making out with Nora, sexually harassing her in the first book, and even getting hit on by Marcie. But the archangels still continue to sit up there, twiddling their thumbs, act all threatening and 'wait for Patch to slip up'. Please. If Patch can get away with shit like that, he wouldn't have a problem with getting it on with Nora, therefore he wouldn't even have a problem and they can both live happily ever after, bla bla bla. The plot was mostly about Nora bitching about not being with Patch while some random drama occurs. The plot twists felt very soap opera-ish to me. Therefore they didn't affect me at all. They were more funny than shocking. But the again Becca fails at shock value and plot twists. In fact she fails at drawing any emotion out of the reader. Her writing is very noobish, with weird descriptions to over dramatic expressions of sorrow and love. They made me want to gag. Like Hush, hush, this book tried but failed to make me feel anything for it other than disgust and the occasional laughs (and not the good kind). I didn't care for anything that happened in this book. ...more Warning : You're about to read a really, really stupid review. This is because the book the review refers to is also really, really stupid. So beware. And don't drink milk before you watch Alien . That's just good sense. Now for the real review . This book irritated the shit out of me. Kira's Nuclear Triggers: a) Wishy-washy heroines with fake booksmarts/dead brain stems/attraction to rapists b) Male protagonists who taunt/harass/objectify/cheat on/pander to wishy-washy heroines c) Motiveless, clich\u00e9 v Warning : You're about to read a really, really stupid review. This is because the book the review refers to is also really, really stupid. So beware. And don't drink milk before you watch Alien . That's just good sense. Now for the real review . This book irritated the shit out of me. Kira's Nuclear Triggers: a) Wishy-washy heroines with fake booksmarts/dead brain stems/attraction to rapists b) Male protagonists who taunt/harass/objectify/cheat on/pander to wishy-washy heroines c) Motiveless, clich\u00e9 villains d) Nonsensical settings e) Purple prose f) Poorly constructed, pointless love triangles that flop harder than a geek at the swimming pool g) Cheap cliffhanger endings There is a common denominator to all these embarrassingly shitty plot devices. Can you tell what it is yet? Well done! You're already certifiably smarter than <---C>Nora Grey</---C>! Slogging through Crescendo was like doing the spread-eagle. It was pointless, painful, and only ended in tears of both agony and frustration. Enter Exhibit A: Oh Where, Oh Where Has My Little Brain Gone, Oh Where, Oh Where Can It Be? I'm going to echo what's been said by many other reviewers: this girl is as thick as two short planks. Because of course you can find out all there is to know about a secret society by GOOGLING it. That's what Google is for, right, Nora? Finding murderers? Oh, and the BLACK HAND? This is a) sick, and b) totally and utterly out of place and unrelated to everything that happens in this book, down to the finest detail. But wait! This is totes clevarr and awsum ! Doesn't this mean that Becks is like, totally History savvy? I see the WWI reference, Fitzpatz! I SEE WHAT YOU DID THAR! Aside from her top-notch skills as a detective, Nora's extremely skilled in the relationship department--not only does she manage to not ask any of the right questions even though she's thinking about them at the time, but she also manages to detach herself from her guardian angel and break up with her boyfriend then instantly regret it, then complain about her lot for half of the book even though it was her fault they were estranged in the first place! Bravo, Nora! You're quite the convincing duplicate of that other girl who fell in lust with an angel who is an equally chauvinistic douchebag. Congrats! Exhibit B: Patcha Don't Preach! Oh, Patch. Well done. Great job. You've really out-assholed yourself. Not only was every single action you took in this book nothing but a blatant display of your douchebaggery, but also an entirely unbelievable and stupid plot device. [Which is to say, I fucking hate you, Patch. Go die in a hole.] I felt every single move the author made in this book, like you might feel Nora as you drive over her in your car. Nothing was effortless. Nothing was smooth. Everything was forced, illogical, and nothing was ever properly explained. If a guy cheated on me, then rubbed my nose in it, then told me he did it for my benefit, I'd kick his ass so hard my toe would become his Adam's apple. I don't care if he's a fallen angel. I don't care if he's God's little brother. I'd fishhook him. Simple. But Patch gets away with more of his signature shitty behavior and I found myself squirming in my seat, hating him as much as I did in the first book. What's with all the rapey love interests these days? THIS AIN'T KINKY, FOLKS. Exhibit C: Can We Ride The Carousel, Lucifer? Pretty Please? WHAT? WHAT IS THIS TOMFOOLERY? WHAT IS HAPPENING HERE? WHY DID FALLEN ANGELS BUILD AN AMUSEMENT PARK? What is going on with this book? Why is everything so stupid? Why did Rixon cart Nora all the way through the funhouse only to, you know, conveniently lose her so that OH NOEZ she lives and he gets sent to Hell without a capital letter? Why did he screw around with all that shit? Why didn't he just knock her block off on the first page and get her out of the picture? For a fallen angel who is most likely millennia old, he's pretty dense, not to mention incredibly clumsy. If you can't catch Nora, then you must be really incompetent. At everything. Ever. Exhibit D: Plot? Where? GET IT OFF ME! IT'LL BITE! As usual, the prose was scattered, jumpy and full of big chunks of tweeny description that GOT FLOWERY FAST. In the first paragraph, the author extensively describes Patch's physical appearance in this weird sort of laundry-list fashion, because apparently telling and not showing is the NEXT BIG THING in YA and of course we all have to follow trends because if we're not sheep, who the hell are we? \"[Patch had] hair that gave midnight a run for its money.\" HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA OH GOD MAKE IT STOP HAHAHAHAHAHAHA Thanks, honey boo boo child. I do like a good belly laugh. Though I have to say that this mirth kind of dilutes Nora's angst which, you know, is the MAIN PLOT OF THIS BOOK therefore made it kind of hard to concentrate on. I know the ramblings of LOVE ME PLEASE and WHY DON'T YOU LOVE ME and DO YOU LOVE ME AS MUCH AS I LOVE YOU are incredibly important and philosophically deep, but a plot within the first 300 pages would have been nice. Food for thought. Exhibit E: I Killed Your Dad Because...BECAUSE...Tune In Next Time For Crapstick Three, Revenge Of The Fuckwits! Ah, the cliffhanger. THE BANE OF MY EXISTENCE. This is textbook lazy narration. Of course an epilogue or a rounded ending would be far too much work, so we end up lumped with a stuttering final chapter with some choked up dialogue and a clusterfuck of confusing mythology, and this really, really, really awkward henchmen-catch-the-hero sitch. Oh dear. Now, there are ways to do this. For example: Casino Royale. I find ball torture and random save-the-day head shootings to be infinitely more gripping than some weird, flowery ending that makes absolutely no sense whatsoever and cuts off like a slab of banana bread that's been cooked so well that you can slice it right through the hot, spongy centre with a butter knife. Yum. Anyway, cliffhangers are just cheeky ways to bleed cash from losers like me whose OCD tendencies require them to purchase the next book and find out what happens even though they no longer give a rat's ass what the hell pans out, only that it'll soon be over and our lives can go back to being relatively pain-free. TL;DR: This book is horseshit. Ciao! BONUS TIME! Below is a comprehensive list of the people whose lives have been fucked up by Nora: Vee : Apparently uppity Nora can't handle her so-called (by Nora) fat friend finding love and being happy. So she has to charge in and destroy/find a conspiracy surrounding every single relationship that Vee has with a male, be they human or non-human. Her mom : Speaks for itself. Nora's all 'ZOMG I'M NOT MY DAD'S DAUGHTER WTF AND I SUPPOSED TO DO OTHER THAN THROW A BITCH FIIIIIIT?' Try talking about it in a mature way, and....okay, who am I kidding? Nora, mature? HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA Patch : Can't go back to Heaven. Can't stay on earth. Can't speak to any females other than Nora. The reason? Yeah, you guessed it. Chauncey : Nora killed him. Yeah. She did. Marcie : Labelled a slut and shamed constantly. By who? YOU GUESSED IT AGAIN! Scott Parnell : Nora has another black mark put on his criminal record by lying to the police that he assaulted her. She humiliates him and steals from him, then lies to cover it all up. He will most likely now have serious trouble getting a job or further education. Because of her. How sweet! Rixon : Must spend eternity in hell for something that she thought was fine as long as Patch was doing it. Of course, being conceited and selfish, Nora would not take into account the fact that Rixon has feelings. But wait! Isn't Rixon Irish, and therefore European? Oh! That explains it all. We Europeans can't be trusted, you know. We're all soulless and evil. Especially us Brits. Yeah. My brain hurts. ...more Hey. Hey, Patch? Yeah, you. Right there. Patch Cipriano? Hey there. Hi. Listen. Yeah. I will not read any more of this garbage. Spoilers are coming up, but mostly about the 'relationship' between Nora and Patch. Also: pretend I'm reading this out loud to you, while I'm barely able to remember what they taught me in my anger management classes, and with a voice that's a few notches above normal volume. There's also some foaming at the mouth and a very, very strained and scary smile on my face. *clears throat* Here goes... Dear Nora, How shall I put this... You are a stupid, stupid girl. The guy who loves you spends his time, Spoilers are coming up, but mostly about the 'relationship' between Nora and Patch. Also: pretend I'm reading this out loud to you, while I'm barely able to remember what they taught me in my anger management classes, and with a voice that's a few notches above normal volume. There's also some foaming at the mouth and a very, very strained and scary smile on my face. *clears throat* Here goes... Dear Nora, How shall I put this... You are a stupid, stupid girl. The guy who loves you spends his time, trying to get through to your thick skull and show you what you mean to him. You, my dear, are an idiot. You are incapable of making rational decisions. Not even normal ones are an option with you. The amazing leaps between your conclusions are way beyond my understanding, like in a galaxy, far, far away, even. When a guy tells you he'd sacrifice himself for you, you don't go around complaining about how he 'ran' when you told him you love him. He 'ran' because you were IN DANGER. I'M SORRY THE MOMENT WAS RUINED BY THE PERSON WHO TRIED TO KILL YOU, NORA. Then you spend all your time telling Patch to go do something anatomically impossible, while you, Nora , spend the rest of your time trying to be a bad girl (puh-lease) while wishing he was with you, every time you have an itch you can't patch . But naturally, when the he puts some effort into it, and invades your dreams, just to tell you you really need to listen, because YOU ARE IN DANGER, then you basically put your hands over your ears and start yelling \"I can't heaaaaaar yooouuuuu\" right in his face. You even think he's trying to kill you (again, jumping to conclusions, and where the hell did that one come from anyway?). \"I've fallen in love with a killer\" . Oh please. All he has to do is stick his tongue in your ear and you're slobbering all over him like a needy puppy. I lost count of how many times you told Patch to GET OUT. WHY DON'T YOU GET OUT? AND BUY A DECENT BRAIN. *insert rude gestures here* GOD. And then there's Vee, the best friend you really don't deserve. She made things interesting and was there to make me laugh every once in a while. How she can put up with you is a mystery to me. She made it to the top 5 of my 'awesome people' list. She deserves to be declared a saint. One more thing: You. Don't. Deserve. Patch. AT ALL. HAVE A NICE LIFE. SOMEWHERE ELSE. Kim. Last but definitely not least: I can't believe it, the size of the balls on this cliffhanger are huge . ...more So I was at Borders the other day, and this book was on the shelf and underneath it read 'Patch is the bad boy Edward wishes he was'. Of course, the idea of a forbidden-ish love story will always remind us of You-Know-What, but i'm seriously saying that this book is addictive enough for it to be a crime to compare it twilight. It has its own characters and instead of VAMPIRES, its about ANGELS and that makes me happy because angels are as cool, or even more so, than vampires. And yes I have a fet So I was at Borders the other day, and this book was on the shelf and underneath it read 'Patch is the bad boy Edward wishes he was'. Of course, the idea of a forbidden-ish love story will always remind us of You-Know-What, but i'm seriously saying that this book is addictive enough for it to be a crime to compare it twilight. It has its own characters and instead of VAMPIRES, its about ANGELS and that makes me happy because angels are as cool, or even more so, than vampires. And yes I have a fetish (unsexual of course) for angels. Nora Grey is a teenager living in a town somewhere. One day a new transfer student comes and he is... u guessed it: tall, sexy, unreachable yet irresistable and the most intriguing thing: dark. He has a very, very mysterious past. And that's the next great thing about the book. I'm guessing it can be categorised as a thriller beecause in some parts of the book, I was so scared (in a good way) that I had to close my curtains because i thought I'd see a stalker out there. Did you catch that? A STALKER. Hush Hush by Becca Fitzpatrick is so good. It's a great mix of mystery, thriller, adventure, lurve and a sexy, sexy, sexy bad boy (or angel...?) named Patch. P.S in the blurb it says \"For Nora is in the middle of a centuries-old battle between the immortal and those that have fallen\". The battle wasn't that dramatic so just keep that in mind. It was still really good! Read it!!! ...more Actually in love with this book !!! Just read it, in a day. I cannot describe how much i adore it though, i have to say its my favourite one i've ever read. Got this off amazon yesterday, and i started reading and was hooked, i had to go out that night, and slept out and all i could think about was the book, it was that capturing. I started reading it this morning and finished this afternoon. A Billion times better than hush hush, the author did an amazing job, can't wait for the next one, what a c Actually in love with this book !!! Just read it, in a day. I cannot describe how much i adore it though, i have to say its my favourite one i've ever read. Got this off amazon yesterday, and i started reading and was hooked, i had to go out that night, and slept out and all i could think about was the book, it was that capturing. I started reading it this morning and finished this afternoon. A Billion times better than hush hush, the author did an amazing job, can't wait for the next one, what a cliff hanger it was left on! Only problem was i was screaming at nora throughout, i missed patch a hell of a lot. So many secrets and different plots, its an amazing read. I'm starting reading it again as well, i'm that hooked! 5 stars, LOVED LOVED LOVED IT! ...more Note: This review is rather \"harsh\" so PLEASE IF YOU LOVE THE BOOK AND DON'T WANT TO READ A RANT REVIEW ABOUT IT PLEASE DON'T READ THIS!!! S C R O L L D O W N I F Y O U S T I L L W A N T T O R E A D M Y R E V I E W This book is a classic example of a horrible imitation of Twilight, Evermore and City of Bones . Add some cliches, one-dimensional hot guy, annoying, whiny, suicidal, boring, petty, clingy, stalkerish, slutty, stupid female heroine Nora Grey aka The New Bella Swan , with a pinch of Anti-Feminism and damn add that gorgeou Note: This review is rather \"harsh\" so PLEASE IF YOU LOVE THE BOOK AND DON'T WANT TO READ A RANT REVIEW ABOUT IT PLEASE DON'T READ THIS!!! S C R O L L D O W N I F Y O U S T I L L W A N T T O R E A D M Y R E V I E W This book is a classic example of a horrible imitation of Twilight, Evermore and City of Bones . Add some cliches, one-dimensional hot guy, annoying, whiny, suicidal, boring, petty, clingy, stalkerish, slutty, stupid female heroine Nora Grey aka The New Bella Swan , with a pinch of Anti-Feminism and damn add that gorgeous silver cover and TADAAAAAAA! We had this 100% CRAPTASTIC BOOK!!! If you're in the right mind please don't read this crap it's just twilight with fallen angels instead of sparkly vampires, duh. And seriously do you want to read another book about a Bella Swan character falling for Edward Cullen character for no apparent reason other than the guy is hot? see more Very Demotivational Seriously Hush hush f*** yourself and bye for good! And Becca Fitzpatrick, Five words honey... _____________________ Thoughts Before Reading This Crap 10.19.2010 loved the silver theme of the book covers ^^ I'm freaking jealous, I want my own copy of this T_T Moment of Jealousy Over. I now have a copy. *evil laugh* I promise I'm going to read this after reading all my books. ...more Sometimes, if you're really lucky, a book will teach you a lesson or give you something valuable you can carry with you through your entire life. Crescendo gave me an unexpected gift although lesson might be too generous a term. It's a sort of 'I've been through this so that can't possibly be as bad.' I am no longer afraid of childbirth (or other really painful experiences but specifically childbirth) because I know that the pain of labor does not usually add up to the amount of hours I spent wi Sometimes, if you're really lucky, a book will teach you a lesson or give you something valuable you can carry with you through your entire life. Crescendo gave me an unexpected gift although lesson might be too generous a term. It's a sort of 'I've been through this so that can't possibly be as bad.' I am no longer afraid of childbirth (or other really painful experiences but specifically childbirth) because I know that the pain of labor does not usually add up to the amount of hours I spent with Crescendo . Also, I'll have drugs to get me through it -- which might have been the only thing that would have made Crescendo a pleasant experience. Often the second book in a YA trilogy will feel like a filler between novel one and novel three. You usually get to see what it's like when the honeymoon is over so that in book three you can get some sort of affirmation that the characters are indeed soul mates because they made it through all of that and then some. For Nora and Patch, the honeymoon is indeed over. Nora tells Patch she loves him. He is less than responsive to her delightful confession. I'm sorry, but why are things like this seen as confessions? In the last book she'd been willing to sacrifice herself to give him a chance of what he wanted most, a life as a human. Obviously she loves him. We get it. He gave up the chance at humanity because being human wasn't worth anything without her. Obviously he loves her. We get it. I think these confessional moments come from trying to pace what is supposed to be an extraordinary relationship against social norms and rites of passage because the author loses track of the story's pacing. Fitzpatrick is not the only one guilty of this, but it does make Nora look dimmer than a two watt light bulb to fuss over the word love. The inevitable fall out of Patch not telling Nora he loves her back with roses and fanfare (you know, more fanfare than him sacrificing what he wanted most for her) is that she breaks up with him. Nora does it mostly out of childish spite because he isn't telling her SECRETS and he doesn't really love her. Their break up could have been done without. It was just stupid and confusing. Nora can't decide why they're broken up. At one point when they're almost back together Patch tells her that he's going to have go on the run and hide from the archangels because they're going to put him in hell for loving her. Nora walks away rather than risking his soul, but for the rest of the book she wibbles back and forth about the reasons why they're over. Is it because he's keeping secrets from her or because she doesn't want to risk sending him to burn in hell? Later, she wants him to burn in hell, but she doesn't want anyone else's help accomplishing it. Fuck the archangels, she's putting him in hell herself. Also, my what the fuck moment with all of this: Fallen angels routinely mistreat humans and their half-human offspring. They torture and kill people. Patch was going to murder Nora and get a human soul as a reward for all his effort. That was all okie dokie. The straw that breaks the camels back here -- the freaking thing that will send him to hell is loving her? Imagine a bunch of archangels chilling in a conference room discussing the matter. \"What do we do about angels who disobey and fall from heaven?\" \"Let the fallen angels keep their immortality as punishment muwahaha.\" \"While they're down there should we let them torture people?\" \"Yeah, that's totally within acceptable standards.\" \"Okay... what about killing people? Should we let them kill people without consequence?\" \"Personally, I think they should get a gold star and a human body for that!\" \"Agreed, agreed. But what about falling in love?\" \"BURN IN HELL!\" What a great way to make the romance forbidden! Look, I get that Angels are not supposed to love humans, that this is the big no-no for this particular supernatural creature, but it seems a little stupid for the archangels to let the fallen angels run rampant and then lose their shit and play the hell card over this. Other major plot points in no particular order aside from what struck me as totally ridiculous: So Nora's not her father's biological child... but the entire plot of the first book is based on her being her father's child and having some very specific nephilim blood in her that makes her an acceptable sacrifice in exchange for Patch's soul. How does Fitzpatrick fix this gaping plot hole? She makes her biological father and adoptive father distantly related on the nephilim wave length. Okay. I can tentatively accept this if I stop using 2/3s of my brain. Goodbye 2/3rds, you will be missed when I have to tie my shoes tomorrow morning. Guys, I could have lived without those 2/3s but Fitzpatrick greedily tries to tax me another 1/3 by giving this explanation for Nora's adoption: her biological father gave her (and her mother, it's so sad I'm not even worked up about this giving business) to her adoptive father to protect her from angels who might want to sacrifice her as the female child of a nephilim. That's right. Both men are nephilim. Granted, her biological father is MUCH more nephilim than her adoptive father, but apparently her adoptive father was not human enough to have kept Nora safe from Patch in Hush, Hush because Patch wanted to kill her on the basis of being her adoptive father's child or at least that's how it was explained in the first novel. It's disgustingly complicated and stupid. It was clearly NOT the intentions with which the first book was written. This entire subplot about who is really Nora's daddy is about extending what should have just been a stand alone into a trilogy. Milk that money making cow. There's a scene where NoraDrew and Vee are breaking into a character's bedroom to find out all his mysterious secrets and sniff his laundry. (Nora always comments on laundry when she's busting into someone's house undercover.) In the scene before it Nora instructs Vee to park behind some shrubs. Vee expresses the concern that the car will not make it over a ditch to get to said shrubs. Nora insists and Vee does it. Her car gets stuck in the ditch. They move the car back and forth until they flatten one of the tires on a rock. Without a tidy getaway car, Nora still decides to go through with the plan. I assumed the fact that the car was totally disabled would become part of the plot of the scene -- like their hasty escape is thwarted by the car... but NOPE. Despite all the time Fitzpatrick spends discussing the position of the car, the moving of the car, and the fact that the car is stuck the entire conclusion was calling Triple A later in a throwaway sentence. At this point I was rocking myself in a corner trying not to stomp my nook into rubble. Speaking of Vee, all the fat jokes in the novel started to piss me off. We get that Vee is heavy. Vee don't need her to suggest food at every turn to reinforce it. If Nora eats one donut Vee eats twelve and the polishes off Nora's leftover one while Nora is outside being flirted with boy of the moment. More examples include: Vee insists on stopping for hot dogs before they go on their NoraDrew mission. This scene is there so Nora can complain about the grease and chemicals and Vee can swoon over the courage endorphins she supposedly gets from them. Again, Nora's food goes uneaten or consumed by someone else. In that same scene Nora demands Vee chase down a car a quarter of a mile. The car arrives at the location, the boy gets upstairs and inside, he has an entire conversation with Nora, Nora goes downstairs, and Vee is still standing by the curb wheezing. For the love of god, we get it. Vee is fat and Nora is slender as a toothpick. Skinny equates good, pretty, worthwhile and every other characteristic you want Nora to have. Whenever Marcie, the book's mean girl, has a negative comment to make about Nora it's usually not actually about Nora. Marcie routinely calls Vee fat while fighting with Nora as if this somehow negatively reflects upon Nora. (If you ask me it only negatively reflects on Marcie.) Marcie's first scorching remark is that Nora's father's dead. I don't even know how I can begin to explain that this is not an insult. My father died when I was a teenager and if someone had told me my dad was dead as an insult I'm not sure I even would have comprehended they were trying to insult me. If you want to use a dead father as a joke you should say he had a heart attack while in a cheap motel with an even cheaper hooker. Nora is too perfect to insult! The only thing repeated through the book is that she studies too much!! I could go on and on about everything that was wrong or crappy about this book, but I'm not going to continue subjecting myself to it. I read this book despite having disliked Hush, Hush because of a blog post the author wrote about negative reviews coming back to haunt the person writing them. The book was bad and I'm not going to be intimidated out of telling people exactly why. ...more OMGZ, u know what I HATE? When like, I brake up w/ a boy, and he doesn't talk 2 me anymore!!! like, their was this 1 time w/ a boy named Patch (how adorable is that name?!!! \u2665\u2665\u2665) and like, he was cheeting on me!! I heard from some1 who heard from some1 else who saw Patch standing in MARCIE'S driveway! Can u beleive it? So I asked him y he was theyre and he wouldn't tell me!!! So, of course I broke up w/ him. he wouldn't stop complaining for like, hooouuurrrssss and I had 2 kick him out of my hou OMGZ, u know what I HATE? When like, I brake up w/ a boy, and he doesn't talk 2 me anymore!!! like, their was this 1 time w/ a boy named Patch (how adorable is that name?!!! \u2665\u2665\u2665) and like, he was cheeting on me!! I heard from some1 who heard from some1 else who saw Patch standing in MARCIE'S driveway! Can u beleive it? So I asked him y he was theyre and he wouldn't tell me!!! So, of course I broke up w/ him. he wouldn't stop complaining for like, hooouuurrrssss and I had 2 kick him out of my house. liike, jeez if ur going to cheet on me the least you can do is have some diginity. so anyway, I was sooo pissed. like, why would he do this 2 me? What did I do to deserve this? so I stole that bitch Marcies diary, but then later iwas like, no, this is not wat jesus would wanted me 2 do. I should put it back. so I went to Marcie's party and their he was! I was waiting for him to apoligize, but instead he offered me a soda. A SODA! So I was like, no way, douchbag, and he was liike, we need to talk. SO I was like what the hell I'm not dating you anymore get over it. and he wouldnt leave me alne! He kept givin me shit excuses about needing 2 talk 2 me and make things right!!!1I was like, no ,I never want to see you again! and then you know what he did? HE LEFT ME! HE JUST DISAPPEARED! CAN U BELEIVE THIS BASTARD?!! I was like what the hell why aren't u talking to me! And i reaaly wantd to kiss him. But he was like, i can only be with you in your dreams, nora, and then he freakin maked out w/ me! I was like, no way after the shit you pulleed! and then I threw his dorky necklace thing. the asshole. But now were back together and everythings PERFECT!!!!!111!!!! \u2665\u2665\u2665 :3 And that is what would happen if Nora had a Facebook. Or if Nora signed up for an online intervention on relationship problems. I wanted to throw this thing out my window, in the rain, and hope that it got struck by lightening. It was just that disgustingly excruciating. My first question is, what the hell was Fitzpatrick thinking when she was plotting this?! Hm... Fallen Angels? No.... Covenants? No... Break ups? YES! THAT'S WHAT I WANT MY BOOK TO BE ABOUT! I mean really? This thing has no plot. At all. I swear, I tried. I tried, I tried, I tried, but I couldn't find it. The entire \"novel\" is about Nora's psychoneuroses personality, Patch's douchebaggery, and Scott's drug addiction. Oh, and about Vee being fat, because Becca can't go a single book without pointing out how excessively \"curvy\" she is. Sick, sick, people, man. Anywho! I want to know who Nora's kindergarten teacher was, what school she's at, and when I can find her. Because really, was Nora absent the day they did the whole, \"Keep our hands to ourselves,\" and \"Ask permission first\" lesson? I'm serious! Nora has no respect for privacy whatsofreakinever! Ooh... I wonder if she celebrates Christmas. I can seriously imagine Nora waking up at three in the morning to sneak downstairs and open all the presents, and then accuse Santa of murder because she got a flashlight that had a smudge of paint on it. Because we all know flashlights are the incarnation of evil. That picture was from back when Spongebob was an awesome show, children, not all demented and gross like it is now. It's funny... I was listening to a song while I was reading this, and one of the lines seriously said, \"Once when I was all alone, I could not find the telephone, so instead I burnt your pretty home, to the ground, to the ground, to the ground.\" Coincidence? I think not. Unfortunately for us, Nora's obsessive stalker-like personality isn't even the worst thing about this \"book.\" No, since this is Nora, we should all expect the worst. And pessimists are never disappointed, of course. The most painful part of Crescendo was the self indulgent self-wallowing. 7/8 of this book was Nora crying about how much she misses Patch, and how Patch won't talk to her, and how Patch is so mean, and how he's so hot, and how he's a man-slut---Every. Damn. Page. It is so sickening, let me tell you. I was seriously cringing without even knowing I was doing it until my classmates started giving me weird looks when they walked by. I also threw the book at a tree and screamed \"GET A HOLD OF YOURSELF!\" (true story) but people are used to me screaming at inanimate objects so that was normal. *awkward silence* As I was saying, Nora spent the entire duration of this repulsing excuse for literature whining about her relationship problems. This is where I really wanted to bitch slap her--- She causes her own problems. I would try to put this into a paragraph, but I can't submit myself to that without making snarky comments. So I'm going to make pretty little bullet points to mark this down instead. These are the key points in the first half or so of the book: \u2022 Nora tells Patch she loves him (I really want to make a snobby comment) \u2022 Patch freaks the hell out and makes a break for it \u2022 Nora finds out Patch was standing in front of Marcie's house \u2022 Nora breaks up with Patch, refusing to hear his side of the story \u2022 Nora cries over Patch dumping her (she has a funky way of viewing things) \u2022 Patch tries to fix their relations ship \u2022 Nora tells him she never wants to see him again \u2022 Patch leaves her alone \u2022 Nora cries that he won't talk to her \u2022 Nora uses Scott \u2022 Nora cries that Patch is going out with Marcie \u2022 Patch tries to fix their relationship again \u2022 Nora tells him not to be her guardian angel anymore, despite Patch's protests \u2022 Nora cries that Patch isn't her guardian angel anymore \u2022 Patch tries to fix their relationship yet again \u2022 Nora throws his special necklace/ring/whatever back at him, cries, refuses to talk to him, and ignores the fact that he's screaming that she's in life threatening danger that only he can save her from. And that's pretty much how the rest of the story goes. Sad, isn't it? Yeah, so I wanted to kill Nora. I have not hated any fictional character as much as I hated Nora (besides Damen from Evermore , but now that I've cooled down some and he explained why he was being such an asshole, he's partially forgiven.) I really wish she would just, like, accidentally break her nose or something. I was reading the plot to Elfen Lies and it said that Lucy hit her head or something and she became all cute and happy, a major personality change. So maybe, if Nora hits her head hard enough, she'll be less... Nora-ish! Fall, Nora, fall! Now, this isn't to say that Patch isn't at all guilty. I mean, it's obvious that 85% of the shit that goes wrong in this \"novel\" is Nora's fault, but Patch isn't innocent, either. It's his fault for ever dating the psycho. He should have seen this shitstorm coming when he decided to kiss her in the first book rather than slit her throat. But no, let the bitch live so she can eventually make your life even more miserable than it already is. Grade A thinking there, mate. I swear, the people that made these base it entirely off Nora Grey: ...more Someone please pass me that voodoo doll? I have to hurt Nora. Thank you. I'm feeling better now. I\u2019ve spent the last 8 hours literally gulping down this book. My fingernails are bitten down, my eyes are red-rimmed, my hair is all tousled because I kept pulling it...basically, I look like a lunatic. Well, that Nora\u2019s acting beyond stupid in this book has already been established by several of the bookers so I will not waste my breath on this and get all worked up again. I\u2019ve thrown my book across th Someone please pass me that voodoo doll? I have to hurt Nora. Thank you. I'm feeling better now. I\u2019ve spent the last 8 hours literally gulping down this book. My fingernails are bitten down, my eyes are red-rimmed, my hair is all tousled because I kept pulling it...basically, I look like a lunatic. Well, that Nora\u2019s acting beyond stupid in this book has already been established by several of the bookers so I will not waste my breath on this and get all worked up again. I\u2019ve thrown my book across the room several times today already. Enough with the violence. Nora is a major pain in the ass in this book. Period. Then there\u2019s Patch. God, even though I know I shouldn't, I've totally got the hots for him. *ducks head in shame* I really can\u2019t come up with much to say right now, because I\u2019m way too exhausted (sorry Kim) but I think I liked this much more than I was supposed to. What a ride! Guess I like to torture myself... So, if you feel like throwing a fit for hours while reading, I'd recommend you to give Crescendo a shot. ...more Wow. I mean, wow. I used to think Hush, Hush was the worst book ever written, and then I was stupid enough to read Fallen and Torment , and I realized there was a whole deeper level of shit an \"author\" (again, term used loosely) could achieve. So I picked up Crescendo thinking, \"Well, at least it's not Fallen , right?\" Now, Lauren Kate is a shitty author. This has been established. Her writing is ... bizarre, her characterization maddening, her plotting more aptly described as \"plodding.\" Maybe it Wow. I mean, wow. I used to think Hush, Hush was the worst book ever written, and then I was stupid enough to read Fallen and Torment , and I realized there was a whole deeper level of shit an \"author\" (again, term used loosely) could achieve. So I picked up Crescendo thinking, \"Well, at least it's not Fallen , right?\" Now, Lauren Kate is a shitty author. This has been established. Her writing is ... bizarre, her characterization maddening, her plotting more aptly described as \"plodding.\" Maybe it was a case of \"grass is always greener,\" or maybe it was a case of delayed Stockholm Syndrome, but I started reading Becca Fitzpatrick's sequel thinking, \"Hey, this isn't as bad as I remember! Because I've been through the Fallen Torment of Lauren Kate!\" I think Becca Fitzpatrick is mildly a better writer than Lauren Kate. But this is like saying I think tuberculosis is mildly better than the ebola virus.* At least Fitzpatrick doesn't have the annoying habit of saying, \"[Thing] was both [adjective] and [adjective's antonym] at the same time.\" The two authors seem to be cut from the same [gaudy, nausea-inducing] cloth, however, in terms of plodding plotting: \u25c6 Dippy heroine? Check. \u25c6 Endless nothingness for the first 300-ish pages of book before slamming so much plot and twisty twists in your face that you need an airsickness bag? Check. \u25c6 Crappy copy of crappy Twilight ? Check. \u25c6 Love interest mysterious and brooding and possibly evil? Check. \u25c6 Constant fighting between heroine and love interest due simply to lack of honest communication and braindead-ness of heroine? Check. \u25c6 Twisty twist wherein THE PERSON YOU TRUST THE MOST IS ZOMG THE BAD GUY LIKE I MEAN REALLY? Check. Let's try to make sense of the plot here. I'm writing this not so much for your benefit, but for me to figure out if I really did read all that shit. Nora and the ever-so-sexily-named \"Patch\" are \u2665\u2665\u2665 in love \u2665\u2665\u2665. There's this bitchy girl Marcie who, while briefly mentioned in Twi, Light Hush, Hush as \"bitchy,\" now is like Nora's personal scourge. Like a guardian angel, except sent to belittle and humiliate her constantly. She seems to hate Nora (and not for the reader's reasons like \"too fucking stupid to live\"). Patch is Nora's guardian angel. They're all like, \"ZOMG I LOVE YOU SOOOO MUCH, NO I LOVE YOU MORE, LET US KISS.\" Then, one night, Patch gives Nora his silver necklace. She returns with a ring her dead father gave her the week he was TRAGICALLY, SENSELESSLY SHOT TO DEATH. This is supposed to, like, SEAL THEIR ENDLESS LOVE. She tells Patch she loves him, and he freaks out and runs away, looking off toward the woods. Oh noes! Patch has commitment issues! He doesn't love her! He is freaked out because she said she loves him! He eventually tells her that the archangels are watching him, that he can't let his feelings get too strong, or they'll cast him into hell. Um, what? I have no idea. Oh, and also, did you know angels can't feel physical sensation? Or maybe only when it's all lusty? So when he kisses her, he feels ... nothing. He makes like he wants to bang her, but ... he would feel nothing. In addition, Nora finds out Patch went to Marcie's house after Nora's declaration of love. Nora thinks that there's no way they can possibly work if he's going to be cast into hell for loving her, so she breaks up with him. Instead of saying, \"I care too much about you to have that happen\" or \"I'm not sure what kind of future I can have if loving you only endangers your eternal salvation,\" Nora focuses on Patch's being at Marcie's house and how he is tight-lipped about it. \"You're a jerk!\" she says. As this is the second book of a Twilight rip-off, Crescendo has fulfilled the \"New Moon\" requirement of BIG BREAKUP OF TWUE WUV COUPLE. Check and check. Then begins Nora's Epic Journey of Stupidity. Scott Parnell, a childhood friend of Nora's, has just moved back to town with his mom. He's secretive and dangerous and comes off like he has serious 'roid rage. Also important, there is a gang of Nephilim (I SWEAR I AM GOING TO PUNCH THE NEXT PERSON TO USE \"NEPHILIM\" IN A BOOK) who are sick of the whole \"fallen angels get to possess my body for two weeks during this Hebrew month of I-Totally-Made-This-Up\" thing. Oh, and Scott's a Nephil. He's also an asshole, so naturally, Nora starts hanging out with him--especially since it seems to piss Patch off. \"New Moon\" requirement of INSERT SECOND BOY FOR REBOUND JEALOUSY MAKING STUPID LOVE TRIANGLE. Check and check. Whenever Patch and Nora meet, she has the most annoying inner monologue ever about how much she misses him, how she shouldn't have said whatever, that she loves him and blah blah blah blah, but all she says out loud is stuff to hurt him. She tells him she doesn't want him as her guardian angel anymore. She keeps questioning his involvement with Marcie, and okay, come on. THE BOY WAS GOING TO KILL YOU IN THE LAST BOOK, BUT HE FELL IN LOVE WITH YOU, AND WHEN YOU [STUPIDLY] SACRIFICED YOURSELF, HE CHOSE TO SAVE YOU INSTEAD OF BECOMING HUMAN, WHICH WAS HIS GOAL IN THE FIRST PLACE. To me that would be pretty good proof that a fallen angel loves you, you know, about as much as a fallen angel can. But no, it also means that you don't LEND YOUR BASEBALL CAP TO YOUR TRUE LOVE'S BITCHY NEMESIS BECAUSE OMG YOU JUST DON'T THAT'S THE FIRST RULE OF FEMINISM. It should also be mentioned that Nora's vapid, boy-crazy friend Vee (short for \"Vee Dee,\" I think) has been set up by Patch with his good fallen angel buddy Rixon. Nora hangs out with them, feeling third-wheel-ish. One day she gets an envelope with a note and a ring of a black hand. \"THIS RING BELONGS TO THE BLACK HAND. HE KILLED YOUR FATHER.\" Oh, you crazy kids. Who is THE BLACK HAND? Randomly, Nora starts seeing her dead father around, and chases him down dark alleys and abandoned homes. Naturally, she puts herself into danger because when you see your dead dad who was TRAGICALLY SHOT PERHAPS BY THE BLACK HAND, regardless that in previous times BAD ANGEL PEOPLE HAVE PUT RANDOM THOUGHTS INTO YOUR HEAD AND MADE YOU THINK SHIT WAS HAPPENING THAT WAS NOT HAPPENING, this is totally different, especially since your dead dad has got to be alive because you SEE HIM and you just KNOW this is real. She also gets, like, fallen-angel-roofied via scented apology card and chased around a library (libraries are here to remind us that NORA IS SMART N SHIT). She finds another THE BLACK HAND ring in Scott's room (because she totally thought it would be a good idea to snoop around his room even with his roid rage). Scott's hellbent (no pun intended) on getting the ring back. Says if he doesn't get it back, THE BLACK HAND will find him and kill him. She also snoops in Marcie's room and finds Marcie's diary. But she doesn't read it, because ... I don't know. Oh yeah, and one day at the beach Rixon tells Nora that \"the Black Hand\" is an old nickname of Patch's. Dun dun dun. Nora uses her SUPER SNEAKY SMARTY SKILLS to trick Rixon into telling her where Patch lives (he is, for no good reason at all, exceptionally evasive about where he lives). Somewhere in here, Patch starts visiting Nora in dreams. And then you get the special flashback-within-a-dream-sequence device, and again, I have no fucking clue. Now that Nora knows where Patch lives, she sneaks over there. Everything smells of rotting food and stuff, and she finds a whole fucking BOX O' THE BLACK HAND RINGS. And then she hears someone come into the apartment and plant sticks of dynamite. She gets out of the building just before it blows sky high. Again: no idea. Somewhere in here she also goes back to Marcie's house, and Marcie sees her holding her stolen diary. She finally reveals why she hates Nora so much: Nora's mom has been having an affair with Marcie's dad, and they might be sisters. Oookay. It all culminates in a showdown at the Delphic, the shitty amusement park from the first book. Scott is chasing down Nora to get the THE BLACK HAND ring back, Nora is ... I don't know what she's trying to do. Cops are involved. Scott chases Nora down, then gets shot by Rixon, and Rixon says he's here to save Nora, that they should wait in the underground tunnels below the funhouse because they'll be safe from Scott, and after an \"Angel of Death\" \"stops time\" on behalf of NORA'S DEAD FATHER, his heretofore unexplained ghostly presence tells Nora to touch Rixon's scars. In doing so, Nora discovers that oops, Rixon is the bad guy. I SAID IT. RIXON IS THE BAD GUY! RUN, NORA! So it turns out Rixon sent the fallen-angel-roofie note, the THE BLACK HAND note, and lied to her about both a) Patch's domicile and b) Patch's being THE BLACK HAND. His motive? Rixon's vessel Nephil dude is also related to Nora, as in, HE IS HER FATHER. He's also Marcie's dad. So Nora's biodad is Marcie's dad, who is one of the Nephilim. For some reason he hid Nora away, got his college BFF to marry the babymama and pass the baby off as his own. So it turns out that while Patch was out to kill Nora in the first book because killing the ... heir (?) of his Nephil vessel would make him human, Rixon wanted the same thing, because she's the heir to HIS Nephilessel as well! And Marcie ... isn't Nephilimy enough for his sacrificing purposes? Again: I DON'T UNDERSTAND THIS CRAZY FITZPATRICK LOGIC. Patch saves the day, somehow. I dunno. He says he sent Rixon to hell. He says he suspected Rixon all along, which is why he set Vee up with him, so he could keep a better eye on him. Uh, WHAT? You use your love's [extremely irritating] BFF as bait to draw out psychopathic fallen angel? That's kind of a dick move. Patch takes Nora to his real house, which is in that shitty Delphic park, since it was, like, made by fallen angels, for fallen angels? Or something? Anyway, they declare their love for each other, Patch says he's going to go rogue no matter what, and then Marcie's dad jumps out at them from behind a door or some shit and says, \"I AM THE BLACK HAND MWAH HA HA HA HA HA.\" THE END! So, uh. I really. Um. No. What? I have no idea what's going on. Basically just flip to p. 399 of the hardcover, where Rixon does that classic \"bad guy explains it all exposition exposition bullshit\" maneuver. I'm sorry this review makes no sense. I was trying to lay out the plot points, but I kept getting lost. So instead I'll close with some examples of Becca Fitzpatrick's finest prose. - \"Patch's eyes were slate black, darker than a million secrets stacked on top of each other.\" I like dark eyes of stacked secrets like I love the neverending pancake buffet at IHOP. - \u200e\"She was caught in the crossfire when a group of fallen angels tried to force a Nephil to swear fealty inside the men's room at Bo's Arcade.\" - \u200e\"The following morning, I dragged myself out of bed, and after a quick stint in the bathroom that included dabbing on under-eye concealer and spritzing my hair with curl revitalizer, I moseyed into the kitchen to find my mom already seated at the table.\" It's important to know that she \"spritzed\" the curl revitalizer--I mean, you don't want to use a heavy [THE BLACK] hand with curl revitalizer. - \"... I snatched my discarded tights from the floor. I tightened them between my hands.\" So, you tightened your ... tights? - \"I settled on a box of bow-tie pasta and a jar of sausage spaghetti sauce. When the stove timer beeped, I drained the pasta, poured myself a bowl, and stuck the sauce in the microwave. We were out of Parmesan, so I grated cheddar and called it good. The microwave chimed, and I spooned layers of sauce and cheese on top of the pasta.\" BUT HOW MANY LAYERS? YOU CAN'T LEAVE ME HANGING LIKE THAT, BECCA FITZPATRICK! - \u200e\"In my bedroom, I squeezed into a pair of toothpick jeans, pulled on a graphic tee and cardigan, and finished the look with suede driving mocs. I smoothed my hair into a low ponytail, offsetting it so it hung over my right shoulder. Having not slept in more than a full day, my eyes were ringed by smoky circles. I brushed on mascara, silver eye shadow, and lip gloss.\" I swear she's just copying and pasting this shit from the makeup-tips column of various women's magazines. Oh, and by the by, the above quote is why I have renamed this book Hush, Hush, Hush, Hush, Hush, Hush, Hush, Suede Driving Mocs . Oh, oh, and let's not forget: - \u200e\"The tang of fear and panic was on my clothes, and I left them in a heap on the floor.\" I hate how fear and panic are so tangy. I also leave my tangy fear and panic in a heap on the floor. Will I read the third book? THE BLACK HAND MADE ME SWEAR FEALTY TO THE TRILOGY OF SHIT, AND I MUST OBEY. *This analogy freely borrowed from Anthony Lane's The New Yorker review of Star Wars III: Revenge of the Sith : The general opinion of \u201cRevenge of the Sith\u201d seems to be that it marks a distinct improvement on the last two episodes, \u201cThe Phantom Menace\u201d and \u201cAttack of the Clones.\u201d True, but only in the same way that dying from natural causes is preferable to crucifixion. [See: http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005... ] Read more http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005... ...more My brain, guys. My brain. Reading this book is the equivalent to listening to Vogon poetry . It may not liquify your brain (not yet anyways. Give it another two books), but it will lead to a massive decrease in brain cells. First off, the plot. Hold on a sec. Plot? What plot? Crescendo is not so much a story about hostile archangels and the opposing Nephilim than it is about a girl breaking up with her boyfriend and immediately wants him back. And let's not forget the slutty bitch that he gets toget My brain, guys. My brain. Reading this book is the equivalent to listening to Vogon poetry . It may not liquify your brain (not yet anyways. Give it another two books), but it will lead to a massive decrease in brain cells. First off, the plot. Hold on a sec. Plot? What plot? Crescendo is not so much a story about hostile archangels and the opposing Nephilim than it is about a girl breaking up with her boyfriend and immediately wants him back. And let's not forget the slutty bitch that he gets together with afterwards. Two-thirds of the book is relationship drama. Nora breaks up with Patch near the beginning to protect him because apparently, their love is forbidden and Patch might get his cocky ass sent to hell. But the archangels are totally okay with Patch and Marcie because hey, it's just lust . It's not like it's one of the seven sins or anything. After breaking up with the epic love of her life, Nora proceeds to spend every other page whining about how Patch doesn't love her anymore and how he has the audacity to move on with her archenemy, Marcie. Patch would come around a few times, trying to patch things up (see what I did there) and Nora would send him away because her will is strong. She does not want to shop\u2014I mean, get back together with her ex . Yet she still expects Patch to stick around even after she finds a new boy toy. Because no means yes, donchaknow? I felt a hard smile cross my face as I realized it didn't matter what I did, or what Scott might do; Patch had to protect me. News flash, Nora, Patch doesn't have to do squat. He's a guardian angel, not a trained dog. Though it'd take a entire militia to protect Nora from herself because the girl is as dumb as a doornail . There's this secret Nephilim club called The Black Hand and instead using the Internet like a normal person to dig up info on it, she ponders the 5Ws endlessly in her mind: What does this have to do with my dad? Where are the headquarters? When will I get off my ass to do some research like the studious character I'm supposed to be? Screenshot from this video It's called Wikipedia, Nora. Have you heard of it? When Nora isn't wallowing in self-pity, she does her best to make other people's lives miserable. Namely, her best friend Vee. There is not a single scene in which Vee shows up and is not slapped with the fat card : \"I had never seen Vee just eat one doughnut, but I kept my mouth shut.\" \"'You probably called [the police]!\" 'Who, me?' Vee said. \"And lose the free food. No way.\" \"Vee:'Like I said, I think we should stop by Skippy's [for hot dogs].\" 'I already had pasta for dinner.' 'Pasta isn't very filling.' 'Pasta is very filling' 'Yeah, but not in the way mustard and relish are,' Vee argued.\" Or painted out as a horrible friend: \"Vee was my best friend, but she had a big mouth.\" \"'Not. But you know Vee. Always there to make an uncomfortable situation ten times worse,\" I muttered under my breath.\" \"Right now, Vee was the only person I could count on. She could be obnoxious, annoying and lazy, but she never lied to me.\" That's a great way to think about the person who gives you free rides, stands up for you in front of your archenemy and comforts you when you're sad about your deceased dad . Vee is a fantastic friend if a tad boy-possessed. Nora, on the other hand, ignores her calls in favor of Patch, weight-shames her and drags her into bat-shit crazy missions to stalk her ex. A true friend indeed. And there is no concrete reason for Marcie to hate Nora. Oh sure, we find later that (view spoiler) [they share the same dad, but Nora's life is worse off so there's no reason for her to be jealous. (hide spoiler) ] It reminds me of this article by B&N: Sign seven that you may be living in a YA novel: You have an archnemesis. We hate to break it to you, but most people don\u2019t have to deal with someone who is single-mindedly devoted to ruining their life. This goes double if you were inadvertently responsible for your archnemesis becoming a mutant/losing control of their space colony/falling out of their dress at prom. Marcie exists because every YA novel needs a slutty Plastic to contrast against the holier-than-thou heroine. Fair warning for those who are planning to read this: it ends on a cliffhanger, presumably to get us readers in a tizzy fit for the next book. My verdict? Me and my brain cells are jumping ship. Laters. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more EDIT: 16/07/16 JUST LEAVING THIS HERE I'll leave my original babble below. -------- Awesome, fun and highly entertaining, but not as good as the first.............. I was able to guess last year what this book would be about, not hard to figure out. The execution was iffy at best. As for Patch, he disappointed me this time round * pouts * As for Nora and her need to question and doubt everything anyone does, especially Patch, this is my answer to her........... Its a good book, and I will read the next EDIT: 16/07/16 JUST LEAVING THIS HERE I'll leave my original babble below. -------- Awesome, fun and highly entertaining, but not as good as the first.............. I was able to guess last year what this book would be about, not hard to figure out. The execution was iffy at best. As for Patch, he disappointed me this time round * pouts * As for Nora and her need to question and doubt everything anyone does, especially Patch, this is my answer to her........... Its a good book, and I will read the next one, but, well, I think the pictures have made my POV very clear. ...more ERM. So. I pretty much loathed this book. I didn't mind Hush, Hush . The romance was all sorts of wrong, but I found Patch to be an intriguing character and Nora to be passionate and curious. But in Crescendo? HOLD MY ACHING HEAD, I CANNOT TAKE ANYMORE OF THEIR SHENANIGANS. I would like to slap both their faces with a tuna fish. ERGHHHHHH. Do you know what I want when I read an angel book? I WANT ANGELS DON'T ANGEL THINGS. What is the point of this series??? Do the angels pop over the place? Nope ERM. So. I pretty much loathed this book. I didn't mind Hush, Hush . The romance was all sorts of wrong, but I found Patch to be an intriguing character and Nora to be passionate and curious. But in Crescendo? HOLD MY ACHING HEAD, I CANNOT TAKE ANYMORE OF THEIR SHENANIGANS. I would like to slap both their faces with a tuna fish. ERGHHHHHH. Do you know what I want when I read an angel book? I WANT ANGELS DON'T ANGEL THINGS. What is the point of this series??? Do the angels pop over the place? Nope. Do they have wings and fly? Nope. Do they do a good job of protecting their charges? Noooope. WORST ANGELS EVER. This book was so freakishly un-unangelish. But let's talk about Nora and Patch for a moment, since they're the two catastrophes that make this series possible. So, obviously, since this is bk 2, it HAS to follow the pattern and include a massive breakup and misunderstanding. *headdesks repeatedly* They're so madly and hotly in love for the first two chapters and then -- BAM -- they hate each other. Why? WHY, you may ask? omg, let me tell you. IT'S ALL A BIT FREAKISH MISUNDERSTANDING. Their entire relationship is forged on miscommunication. They're BOTH as stupid and thickheaded as each other. Patch doesn't talk to Nora. He could've ended this book on pg. 28 if he'd told Nora the REASON he'd started hanging out with a girl she hated. But no. He would rather...erm...cause strife? For no reason? Even though it loses him Nora which he apparently loves??? (I don't believe that one anymore.) And then NORA. ERGH. NORA. She doesn't trust Patch, and he calls her out on it and he's 100% right. She is always suspecting the worst of him. Even in bk 1. Even now. (Why the heeeck is she still with him, then??) And at first she breaks up and hate him and never wants him in her life: but she STILL expects him to pick up all the pieces when she's in trouble. Nora is a pathetic damsel who constantly needs rescuing. I hate reading about girls like that. I don't care if a girl character is flirty or punchy or bubbly or hateful -- I JUST DON'T WANT THEM TO BE DAMSELS. By the end of the book, when they're still \"broken up\" Nora starts screaming at Patch that he's never there for her. Um...?? Hang on??? Didn't you want this???? Also Nora has a stinking \"better than thou\" attitude. She's HORRIBLE to almost everyone because she's a) smart, b) hardworking, c) self-reliant *chokes*, d) courageous, and e) curious. She's CONSTANTLY saying how much smarter she is than Marcia, the mean girl. And although Vee (her BFF) will drop everything to do WHATEVER Nora wants, Nora passive-aggressively makes fun of her. She's so RUDE to Vee in her head. Like, get a grip Nora. You're awful. Right now, Vee was the only person I could count on. She could be obnoxious, annoying, and lazy, but she never lied to me. What about you list all her OTHER qualities? Like, she rescues you when you're stranded, helps you tail people, goes out to lunch with you, ditches her date night to comfort you, drives you to the beach, picks you up from school, goes along with ANY stupid scheme??? And you know what the scene was for that snippet I quoted above? Nora full on rung up Vee to INVITE HERSELF OVER FOR A WEEKEND because she's fighting with her mum. And then in her brain she's call Vee obnoxious???? HOW DARE NORA. I am a little upset, as you can see. But characters aside...the plot? Meh. Nothing happened. They just stalked people because it was too hard to go up and say \"Hey what's going on between you two?\" No. Let's stalk them. Nora ran around in mood for 87% of the book. Patch was a FREAKING JERK. He is not a \"cool sexy bad boy\". He's an idiot with wings. It is not cool to not tell people things for no reason. Also the plot followed the same structure as bk 1. It sets up with normal life, throws in a dozen creeptastic new male leads, and then has everyone go psycho at the end. Nice. It does have a cliffhanger, but I'm so 100000% done with this books that I don't even care if the bad guys toss Nora and Patch into hell. I do like Vee though. I do like that it is (sort of) about angels because they are cool. I'm more interested in Marcia than Nora (oops) and if Patch turned into, say, a pumpkin patch in the next book, I would keep reading. ...more Updated on 10/15/10: Group review of crescendo on Bewitched Bookworms. Pics of tossed book & time out corner included. http://www.bewitchedbookworms.com/201... At this moment in time, I will write a very simple review (numbered of course): 1. I threw this book a few times. I have the photos to prove it. 2. The novel also spent some time in the Time Out corner for misbehaving. (Can you expect anything less from a book with Patch in it?) 3. Speaking of Patch: More pl eeeeeeee ase. 4. Nora. Dude. Chi Updated on 10/15/10: Group review of crescendo on Bewitched Bookworms. Pics of tossed book & time out corner included. http://www.bewitchedbookworms.com/201... At this moment in time, I will write a very simple review (numbered of course): 1. I threw this book a few times. I have the photos to prove it. 2. The novel also spent some time in the Time Out corner for misbehaving. (Can you expect anything less from a book with Patch in it?) 3. Speaking of Patch: More pl eeeeeeee ase. 4. Nora. Dude. Chill, alright? 5. I *heart* this book. I'm not sure that I *heart* it more than the first, BUT nonetheless (and against my better judgment) I do so love it. I am now DYING to get my hands on book three (naughty naughty cliff hangers are full of fail or is it win... why are we gluttons for punishment?) annnnnd I will write a better review with my fellow Bookworms soon. =) P.S. As Danny Vanquish as my witness I NAILED a few pivotal plot twists. *gloats* P.P.S. This was my first ARC. Thusly, Patch broke my ARC cherry. He wasn't gentle... I didn't mind. ...more I\u2019ve been thinking about names. Why Nora, of all names? Nora Grey. I get the Grey thing: it\u2019s less obvious than Beautiful Graceful Bird (was once an ugly duckling) Bella Swan. Nora Grey \u2013 the woman of honour who is neither good (white) nor bad (black). Total traditional dichotomies, I know. Shades of grey abound. Because although Nora isn\u2019t as empty-headed as your standard YA PNR heroine (Bella, Luce) she is still pretty stupid and driven by hormones. Nora. Nora Grey. Well I\u2019ve got to hand it to I\u2019ve been thinking about names. Why Nora, of all names? Nora Grey. I get the Grey thing: it\u2019s less obvious than Beautiful Graceful Bird (was once an ugly duckling) Bella Swan. Nora Grey \u2013 the woman of honour who is neither good (white) nor bad (black). Total traditional dichotomies, I know. Shades of grey abound. Because although Nora isn\u2019t as empty-headed as your standard YA PNR heroine (Bella, Luce) she is still pretty stupid and driven by hormones. Nora. Nora Grey. Well I\u2019ve got to hand it to Fitzpatrick: as much as I hated the book, it did have some clever writing in it. Or maybe Nora was just so freaking stupid it was a great chore being inside her head, and I didn\u2019t figure out who the villain was until about halfway (when (view spoiler) [he told Nora a great big lie that was so obvious I wondered why Nora didn\u2019t get it (hide spoiler) ] ). But it was kind of crap, because once it was revealed who the person was and why they wanted to kill Nora, the other suspect lost all the motivation for hurting her and suddenly became a good guy. Much like in Hush, Hush! In fact, this book was incredibly similar to Hush, Hush. There were only a few differences, two major ones being that Marcie was in it more and Patch didn\u2019t sexually harass Nora all the time. In fact, I didn\u2019t hate Patch as much in this novel, but that\u2019s probably because he was hardly in it. I have no idea how someone can find an absent character hot or sexy, especially when all he does is show up when Nora needs him (view spoiler) [sometimes, when it\u2019s convenient to the plot (hide spoiler) ] and offer her rides home. In fact, Nora\u2019s always got people offering her rides home. Don\u2019t these kids know the price of petrol? So yeah, Patch was hardly in it \u2013 yay! \u2013 but that doesn\u2019t mean Nora could think straight. (view spoiler) [She breaks up with him then gets with him several times, and all it does is reinforce the notion that when a boy breaks up with a girl he doesn\u2019t really mean it \u2013 a la Twilight when Edward had the balls to tell Bella she should have known he was lying when he broke up with her, what a jackass! (hide spoiler) ] In fact, this book\u2019s plot was so similar to the first one that (view spoiler) [ even Elliot had a stand in, in the form of Scott, who \u2013 surprise surprise \u2013 Nora suspects is the bad guy but really isn\u2019t \u2013 and the \u2018real\u2019 bad guy hooks up with Vee. (hide spoiler) ] I mean really. This book is almost exactly the same as the first. Two minor differences being that Nora gets a job that she goes to just once only to be humiliated by Marcie and then never goes to again, and she never once mentions needing her iron pills. In fact, her anaemia (the \u2018inconvenient\u2019 illness) isn\u2019t a problem for her at all in this book and is never mentioned. Oh, and I used my Post It flags to make a note every time I came across something pointless or stupid or shitty. I re-used the same flags I used in Hush, Hush. I ran out halfway through Crescendo and gave up using them even though there was plenty of shittiness in the second half of the book as well. Look, my Hush, Hush review took me days to write because I used quotes from the text to rant about how shitty it was. I\u2019m not going to do it this time because Crescendo is no better than Hush, Hush and I\u2019m not dedicating a massive amount of my time to write an honest review of a book that had me laughing out loud at character\u2019s inappropriate responses. I do however have a few things I\u2019d love to mention. (view spoiler) [Nora is so much more of a bitch than Marcie ever is. Marcie tells the truth and doesn\u2019t know when to shut up. Nora makes comments about her body and her sexuality in an attempt to slut shame her. Nora chooses her man over her best friend. When she\u2019s single, she\u2019s always with Vee and gets shitty when Vee wants alone time with her own boyfriend. Double standards, much? Nora\u2019s mother has a huge problem with Patch and is trying to drive a wedge between him and Nora, but we\u2019re never told why, and it\u2019s never really shown to us except that Nora has a curfew. It\u2019s inserted simply as another source of conflict \u2013 which ends up not mattering very much in the first place, because of course Nora ends up dumping his ass. \u201cI laughed, but my expression quickly turned serious.\u201d I kept thinking of this: \u201cI tended to be more of a romantic than a realist, and chose blind faith over cold logic.\u201d You don\u2019t say?! Well, I always knew Nora was an author insertion wish-fulfilment device than an actual character. Nora after all has long legs and curly dark hair, just like her author. What I can\u2019t understand is how often Nora gets pushed against a wall by a boy who\u2019s sexually interested in her. Is this a reflection of Fitzpatrick\u2019s own experiences (which would explain A LOT) or is it just a wet dream rape fantasy that\u2019s leaked its way on to the page? Patch accuses Nora of being hysterical, irrational, and crazy. Her responses are nothing of the sort. Not only do we have to deal with rape culture in Hush, Hush, but we are subject to gaslighting as well. If Patch was any medium of sexy, he\u2019d stay and talk with Nora no matter how \u2018irrational\u2019 he thinks she\u2019s being. Sexy is not walking away from your problems. Sexy is not avoiding answering questions from an upset girl. As for what gaslighting is \u2013 take a look at this awesome post , which details how (a lot of) women depreciate themselves to be subservient to men, and how men (not all, of course) emotionally blackmail women. But on top of this, Nora has no right to anything in Patch\u2019s life once she breaks up with him. She gets jealous over him spending time with Marcie and demands to know all kinds of things that is within reason for a girlfriend to know. This is once again part of the whole \u2018teenage girl needs boy to fall over her even if he\u2019s no longer with her\u2019 thing I was going on about earlier. Nora expects Patch\u2019s loyalty to stay to her even when she stops dating him and wants him out of her life completely. So irrational? Maybe. Spoiled? Oh yes. Bitch? Ka-ching. Scott\u2019s mother is a total bitch. She is obsessed with Nora\u2019s looks, sex life, and makes inappropriate comments about Nora marrying Scott. Nora\u2019s mother is no better. When Nora tells her she doesn\u2019t want to take Scott out, Nora\u2019s mother can\u2019t take no for an answer even though she doesn\u2019t like Scott for fearing of hurting Scott\u2019s mother\u2019s feelings. I know when I was a teenager my mother would never force me to go out with a boy I didn\u2019t like for fear of hurting her friend\u2019s feelings. Yet another plot contrivance than makes no sense. When Scott openly insults Nora and calls her boring, instead of walking away like any sane person would, she asks him to think of something daring to do. This feels way too forced. Nora wants to go out with some guy who keeps insulting her to prove a point? How about cutting him out of your life? Sounds like a better option to me. Oh but no, then we\u2019d be eliminating one of the suspects for Nora\u2019s stalker. \u201cI know!\u201d Vee said [on page 212]. \u201cWe could steal her diary.\u201d \u201cThe one she\u2019s been carrying around since freshman year [and you\u2019ve only just mentioned it right now, 212 pages in to the book]?\u201d \u201cSeeing no choice but to take the cup.\u201d If someone sends you a drink you don\u2019t want, don\u2019t take it. Don\u2019t simply take it to be polite. Don\u2019t even touch the damn thing. After spending the last 200 pages worrying about the archangels listening in on her and Patch, watching them, she suddenly decides that \u201cprobably we were safe. Probably the archangels were nowhere close.\u201d I mean, there is no logical link to why she thinks that. She\u2019s almost paranoid with thinking the archangels are watching and then when Patch asks her to dinner she decides, \u201cOh, well, they\u2019re probably not watching.\u201d With absolutely nothing to signify her change in mind. It\u2019s weird! The final thing I\u2019m going to mention is how did Vee know Nora had been offered a waitressing job instead of a barista job, which was the job she initially applied for, when Nora didn\u2019t say she was waitressing and Vee said, \u201cI\u2019ll stop by tonight and request to be seated in your area.\u201d As far as Vee knows, when Nora said, \u201cI got the job\u201d she meant the barista job, because that\u2019s the job she applied for, and baristas don\u2019t serve sections. And don\u2019t get me started on the farce of a \u2018job\u2019. Nora calculates she\u2019s have to work every night to be able to pay off her speeding fine and afford the car she wants and she only end sup working one night at all. In the end, Scott buys her the car she wanted. (hide spoiler) ] Really, I\u2019ve had enough of talking about this book. There is was too much wangsting. Nora breaks up with Patch to \u2018save him\u2019 and pines over him for the rest of the damned novel. She also thinks that the answer to all of her questions is to break in to people\u2019s homes and rifle through their belongings. I don\u2019t even like Patch. I don\u2019t even like Nora. I don\u2019t like one character in this novel, not one. I don\u2019t like the plot (because it\u2019s exactly the same as Hush, Hush), and although nothing is really wrong with the writing style I recognise the attempts at repeating symbols and motifs, which I have to give Fitzpatrick kudos for. What I don\u2019t understand is why this book is called Crescendo. Does Fitzpatrick even know what it means? It means \"progressively louder'. All that is progressively louder in this book is Nora's whining! If you loved Hush, Hush (and if you did, why on earth are you on my one star review?) you\u2019ll probably love Cresendo because it\u2019s the exact same story. If you didn\u2019t like Hush, Hush, don\u2019t waste your time with this tripe. I won\u2019t be reading Silence because the fact that books as stupid as this (that encourage rape culture, misogyny, sexism, slut shaming, and gaslighting) are published, marketed, and loved by hordes of screaming girls depresses me and apparently I get miserable after reading them.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This book angered me so much! Whilst I could forgive a lack of plot progression, cliched sub-plots, nonsensical plot holes and characters I struggled to relate to, I could not forgive some of the characters behavior! Let's start with guardian angel, Patch. Patch is a demeaning asshole! I disliked him in the first book and struggled to see what Nora found so attractive about him. Here, however, he is an utter *insert every swear world under the sun here*!!! He is literally every guy I have ever hat This book angered me so much! Whilst I could forgive a lack of plot progression, cliched sub-plots, nonsensical plot holes and characters I struggled to relate to, I could not forgive some of the characters behavior! Let's start with guardian angel, Patch. Patch is a demeaning asshole! I disliked him in the first book and struggled to see what Nora found so attractive about him. Here, however, he is an utter *insert every swear world under the sun here*!!! He is literally every guy I have ever hated all rolled into one fictional piece of shit. He played with Nora's emotions, led her to believe one thing when he knew one sentence could remedy his behavior and save her from a broken heart, picked and chose when he wanted to see her and often used physical displays as opposed to emotional honesty to rectify himself to her. All of this made me have reservations about Nora's character, as well. She put up with so much disrespect and heartbreak and just seems to be rolling with it. I want my fiction to feature strong female role-models and she does not deliver on that front! I initially found her likable enough, but to fall for such an obviously dislikable creature has me questioning her sanity! I am so done with this series! Obama out. ...more I flew through my first reading of Hush, Hush completely smitten over Patch. What can I say? Guess I never fully banished the high school idiot in me. During my second reading of Hush, Hush I sorta, kinda started to notice that the story wasn't all that good...or good at all. It was much the same as far as Crescendo goes, only this time I wasn't even swooning over Patch, the a-hole, who completely lost his smarmy charm in this book for me. The whole thing was very \"New Moon,\" things start off won I flew through my first reading of Hush, Hush completely smitten over Patch. What can I say? Guess I never fully banished the high school idiot in me. During my second reading of Hush, Hush I sorta, kinda started to notice that the story wasn't all that good...or good at all. It was much the same as far as Crescendo goes, only this time I wasn't even swooning over Patch, the a-hole, who completely lost his smarmy charm in this book for me. The whole thing was very \"New Moon,\" things start off wonderful and beautiful, with Nora and Patch happily in love and then, much like Edward, Patch decides, with little explanation that he's gonna hightail it. Now, Becca Fitzpatrick tries to enter her own little Jacob Black, but fails miserably with the entrance of love triangle third wheel Scott Parnell. I don't know how we were supposed to feel about him-- seduced? annoyed? suspicious? All I could really muster up was immense sympathy for the guy who now took his turn being stalked and studied by Nora because things just \"don't feel right\" to her concerning him. Which leads me to my next complaint... Nora once again spends 3/4 of the book doing ridiculously stupid things, like breaking into people's houses,(I think this happens THREE times in this book) and hanging out in skeezy dives...then she tries desperately to convince the audience that \"she's not normally like this.\" Really Nora? Really? Because it seems to me that you ARE normally like this. If the first book alone didn't prove that, Creascendo certainly did. As for Patch...oh, Patch. R.I.P. My love for him. Much as I have come to hate Nora, my blood still boiled seeing him hang all over her skanky cheerleader arch enemy...I don't care if the last chapter throws in some stupid reason why he had to be that way, I'm not buying it. That is NOT okay. On a final note, guess what everyone? Vee was still the same useless idiot she was the first time around. Go figure! And guess what else? Once again she was dating a boy who wanted to kill Nora! OMG!!!!!!! Apparently Becca Fitzpatrick doesn't believe that any guy in their right mind could possibly want to date Vee because they, I don't know, LIKED her...which I'd tend to agree with, but it's kind of mean for the author to flaunt that, isn't it? Ah Vee...better luck next time. ...more Short review: Stupid girl jumps to wrong conclusions and makes stupid decisions. Of course, if she hadn't had been so dumb, we wouldn't have a novel. Long review: I found myself frustrated most of the novel with the lack of recapping. It hasn't been that long since I read Hush, Hush, so I remember the characters, but what I couldn't remember was these assumptions Fitzpatrick jumped to in her angel lore. I remember not quite buying into it, and that could be part of the problem, but whenever Nora Short review: Stupid girl jumps to wrong conclusions and makes stupid decisions. Of course, if she hadn't had been so dumb, we wouldn't have a novel. Long review: I found myself frustrated most of the novel with the lack of recapping. It hasn't been that long since I read Hush, Hush, so I remember the characters, but what I couldn't remember was these assumptions Fitzpatrick jumped to in her angel lore. I remember not quite buying into it, and that could be part of the problem, but whenever Norah went on whining about some angel restriction, I kept asking myself \"why?\" And really, Patch could go have sex with a girl that it didn't mean anything to but he was restricted from developing a loving, emotional relationship with or without touching. Really? Really? And when exactly could the archangels watch or listen? Some strange omnipresence that wasn't so omnipresent after all or Norah never would have been in any danger. What is the point of guardian angels if they don't actually guard anything but can make out with their subjects? There are qualities about Patch the fallen angel I could accept that don't jive with Patch the guardian angel, on the up and up with the powers that be, which wouldn't that be God? Yeah, I wasn't so fond of the angel lore, even less so than Hush, Hush. I struggled with the beginning, but by midway through I was drawn into story. Vee was still annoying, Patch was strangely absent, but Marcie was a viable antagonistic character. I was never satisfied with any answers about Marcie and Patch, nor do I think Norah should have been. She should have hounded Patch a little more about exactly what went on between the two of them. Yeah, it might be annoying girlfriend reaction, but it's what she would have done and as readers we deserved a little more insight too. I figured out who the villain was pretty early on, which only made it all the more annoying to have Norah manipulated and blindsided. It made the climax fall a little flat for me, but if you hadn't figured that out, it could have been intense. The cliffhanger was a nice twist too, not that I couldn't see that coming, but it did make me want to read on. I'm not sure if I will though. The angel lore bothers me enough and I don't love Norah or Patch enough to feel obligated to complete their story. ...more I've been dying to read crescendo for ages and was ecstatic when I finally got my hands on it. The book was everthing I wanted and more! It's filled with great dialogues and witty remarks. It starts off with nora's dad being murdered and the rest of the book follows the mystery of who the killer was. Meanwhile nora and patch are also goin through a tough time. They break up over a row after nora hears he was hanging round marcie's house and soon he starts roaming round her 24/7. It was maddening I've been dying to read crescendo for ages and was ecstatic when I finally got my hands on it. The book was everthing I wanted and more! It's filled with great dialogues and witty remarks. It starts off with nora's dad being murdered and the rest of the book follows the mystery of who the killer was. Meanwhile nora and patch are also goin through a tough time. They break up over a row after nora hears he was hanging round marcie's house and soon he starts roaming round her 24/7. It was maddening to see this and drove me crazy. Marcie was a slutty bitch throught the book and u'll love to hate her. The archangels are also trying to ripthem apart and it was quite heartbreaking at times. Another mysterious character enters the picture;Scott who is a nephil and nora's childhood friend. Nora uses him at times to make patch jealous. He was a bit of a jerk and quite evil at times but I really liked him and hope to see more of him. I liked nora in this book as she stood up for herself in front of patch instead of mourning in her room and was a lot more gutsy but sometimes she made some really dumb impulsive decissions and should have listened to patch when he tried to explain. Patch was a lot more sensitive and caring this time round (as crazy as it sounds) and I don't know why so many people keep critisizing him. He didn't have much of a choice for some of the things he did and I fell in love with him evenmore. Having said that, there were times when he caused her a lot of pain and acted like a jerk but in the end won me over. I felt there was a lack of him in this book. Vee was really funny and a very loyal supportive friend. I didn't like her much the first time round but in this she grew on me. Rixon also had a big part in this story and her mom also had a few skeletons in her closet. The ending takes u completely by surprise and the book is packed with twists and turns. You will never guess vwho the villain is! some Scenes with patch and nora were quite steamy and the dream sequences were sensational. It ends with a cliff hanger with a new villain on the horizon and I m dyin to read tempest to see what happens to patch, nora, Scott, marcie and vee. I can honestly say I loved every moment of crescendo and would highly recommend it! ...more Not even sure where to begin........ 1. I couldn't get even remotely into this until about page 200 and that's not good. 2.The Patch Marcie Patch Norah triangle got OLD quickly! 3. The Rixon bad guy thing was predictable 4. Vee gets on my nerves 5. I don't think I like the direction book #3 is going to take 6. I almost feel like I am reading a Completely different series that what Hush, Hush.. It doesn't even feel like they go together.. to a point. 7. The Scott giving Norah a car at the end was far-fet Not even sure where to begin........ 1. I couldn't get even remotely into this until about page 200 and that's not good. 2.The Patch Marcie Patch Norah triangle got OLD quickly! 3. The Rixon bad guy thing was predictable 4. Vee gets on my nerves 5. I don't think I like the direction book #3 is going to take 6. I almost feel like I am reading a Completely different series that what Hush, Hush.. It doesn't even feel like they go together.. to a point. 7. The Scott giving Norah a car at the end was far-fetched. 8. I almost hate how at the end, Patch and Norah just kiss and make up... it's just a little to cheesy 9. i don't like the cover... that should say it all coming from me :) Blek, I feel like I just wasted time on this book, which by the way was #122 for this year.. maybe 150 is doable! ...more During Reading *throws book across room* *lights it on fire* *rips Nora out of the book* *lights her on fire* *lights everything on fire* HOW CAN I EXPRESS MY HATRED THROUGH TEXT? BOLD SEEMS LIKE THE ANSWER. First off, Becca, you have completely f**** up with making these characters, holy crap. I have the feeling you hate the entire female population because of how incredibly stupid and irritating you made Nora . Name one positive quality of Nora. I'LL JUST STOP YOU RIGHT THERE BECAUSE THERE ARE NONE. S During Reading *throws book across room* *lights it on fire* *rips Nora out of the book* *lights her on fire* *lights everything on fire* HOW CAN I EXPRESS MY HATRED THROUGH TEXT? BOLD SEEMS LIKE THE ANSWER. First off, Becca, you have completely f**** up with making these characters, holy crap. I have the feeling you hate the entire female population because of how incredibly stupid and irritating you made Nora . Name one positive quality of Nora. I'LL JUST STOP YOU RIGHT THERE BECAUSE THERE ARE NONE. She's irrational, annoying, stupid, obnoxious, annoying, jealous, untrusting, annoying annoying annoying The entire book is her going on about 'wah I love Patch, wah I hate Patch, wah I broke up with Patch, wah why can't Patch read my mind and know that I broke up with him and told him I hate him but secretly want him to come hold me? WAH' If I had to read one more sentence of her b****ing I would have lost it. She didn't even try to resolve things with Patch because whenever she'd see him she'd say the most randomly offensive thing she could think of instead of talking to him. This is basically how it goes: Nora: PATCH LIKE SRSLY, WHAT GIVES Patch: Well I- Nora: PATCH I'M ASKING YOU A QUESTION Patch: Uhm, well like I was saying I- Nora: PATCH YOU DON'T EVEN LISTEN TO ME Patch: Wat Nora: OMG PATCH IT IS OVER Patch: I- Nora: ARE YOU REALLY NOT GOING TO FIGHT FOR ME AND TELL ME YOU LOVE ME AND HOLD ME Patch: I- Nora: NO STOP DIDN'T YOU HEAR ME? IT'S OVER LEAVE ALONE. GO AWAY Patch: *leaves* Nora: UGH *screams* SO TYPICAL JUST WALK OUT DURING OUR FIGHT ... ... ... Nora: MARCIE Basically how it goes. Plus, Nora is so weak and pathetic. Marcie literally walks all over her, insults her, talks about her dad's death, and what does Nora do? cry in the bathroom. & don't even get me started with all the other irrelevant characters Detective BASSO? Why don't you get out of everyones' a**es WHY ARE YOU EVERYWHERE Marcie? YES we get it, she's the bully, how much can you over emphasize and over dramatify that (ya ik it's not a word leave me alone) & Vee. Vee is 50/50 with me. One minute shes all funny and chill, and the next she's as stupid as Nora! Nora: I think I was drugged Vee: uh-huh Nora: Someone was chasing me in the library Vee: Mhm Nora: I almost died Vee: Yeah cool so where are you? Nora: *some street name* Vee: WHHAAAAAAATTTT!!!!!!!!!!!!! & then lastly, Patch. Patch, please calm down with all your secrets and fallen angel bull**** that no one cares about. All I hear from him is blah blah blah SECRET blah blah blah DANGEROUS blah blah blah I THINK I'M SUPER COOL He literally explains nothing and proceeds to not understand why Nora flips sh** on him. You really can not even explain where you live? No one cares about your top secret super awesomely dangerous bat cave, so chill the f**** out. Patch literally went from stalking and harassing Nora in Hush, Hush to just popping up every 100 pages to be even more annoying. Plus his whole thing with Marcie is douchey, but Nora is an idiot, yet again, for disregarding it every time. \"He kissed Marcie! omg how could he!...wait damn look at those pecs okay all is forgiven\" Look at this rant and I haven't even finished this book. Am I allowed to claim hatred to a book when I haven't even finished it. YES I CAN TL;DR = This will be the first book to go during the apocalypse when we need things to burn to light a fire Okay well now that I've finished it, I can proudly give it the one star it doesn't even deserve . If there was less than one star it'd get it. ...more I don't even know how to begin. This book is aimed at teenagers? That's the most horrific part. Impressionable young teenage girls will be reading this thinking that relationships this abusive are 'sexy' and desirable, and that Nora's attitude to her TTLY SRS 2 MONTH RELATIONSHIP is normal and not creepy and over the top at all. It makes me want to gag. She's such an awful role model. At one point she claims she wants to kill herself because she can't be with her boyfriend of 2 months any more. I don't even know how to begin. This book is aimed at teenagers? That's the most horrific part. Impressionable young teenage girls will be reading this thinking that relationships this abusive are 'sexy' and desirable, and that Nora's attitude to her TTLY SRS 2 MONTH RELATIONSHIP is normal and not creepy and over the top at all. It makes me want to gag. She's such an awful role model. At one point she claims she wants to kill herself because she can't be with her boyfriend of 2 months any more. She constantly makes illogical conclusions and decisions, and I've no idea how this shit is popular and quite highly rated on goodreads, because I've never read such trash. The plot from this was basically the plot from the first book in the series all over again, all the characters were frustrating and Nora became an even bigger twat. I spent most of my time reading it asking myself over and over why anyone would act as she acts about 90% of the time, or think as she thinks. Tip to author - if your character makes out of character choices and decisions all the time that result in tidy plot points appearing out of nowhere, then maybe they have no character at all, and maybe, just maybe, you should try place yourself in your character's shoes instead and think logically what they might do next instead of trying to make things 'fit' with the plot. I give up. I really do. This makes me want to ignore the YA genre for a long, long time. Because this review is my way of venting about the book, because no one else I know will ever read it and I'm actually glad of that, I'm going to list all the things wrong with the book, starting with the characters (I'm gonna have to leave Nora and Patch out or it will never end) (also, SPOILERS from here on out): - Vee. In the first book, Vee had a boyfriend who tried to kill Nora. Guess what happened this time? That's right, Vee got another boyfriend who tried to kill Nora! Vee is a great best friend/doormat. Nora just has to ring her and Vee turns into Nora's bitch, giving her rides everywhere, even when Vee isn't going in that direction or anywhere near there, or going anywhere at all. She also encourages Nora to do idiotic things like break into people's houses and steal things, which Nora generally agrees to rather easily considering she's usually uptight and worried about her school work constantly. - Rixon. In the first book, he was 'funny accent guy', having not much purpose except being Patch's bitch. In this book, he turned into my most hated character, in that he could have, at any time, killed Nora, and instead decided to overdo the theatrics and try kill her in a funhouse only to fail because he was taking too much time. Useless bastard. And, seriously, he was the plot twist? The big bad plot twist? If you didn't see it coming three miles off, you're blind. - Marcie, oh Marcie. For punching Nora in the eye +100 points. For screaming 'this is for stealing *boy* off me', with Nora replying 'that was _ years ago', despite the blurb to Hush, Hush saying that Nora has never been interested in boys, -50 points (from the author). For holding an idiotic 'typical teenage' party and hiding your diary in such a clich\u00e9d place -100 points. For eating up Nora's cast-offs (aka Patch) without a care as to how it looks to others and without wondering why Patch suddenly followed you everywhere -150 points. For being able to convince Nora that your dad is her dad without ever having told her the truth before in your life just because it was convenient to the plot, -500 points from Nora/the author. - Scott. In the end, what was Scott for? A pity party? A rebound? To see someone get maimed time and time again for pointless reasons? As soon as he turned up acting like Patch's long lost partner in dickheadedness, I was like 'here we fucking go again'. The fact that he didn't see Nora STARING AT PATCH EVERY TIME SCOTT WAS WITH HER was baffling, and that he didn't put two and two together when Patch beat the crap out of him and deduce he was the ex, also baffling. Also, he was friends with Marcie for the purpose of one conversation it seems, which was also weird. Honestly thinking right now, was his only purpose in the book to buy Nora a car? Because he didn't even tell Nora much about 'THE BLACK HAND', except that Nora should have deduced that by Scott saying he'd never forget 'THE BLACK HAND's voice after getting beaten up and mocked by Patch meant that Patch probably wasn't the big bad guy, but NORA MAKES NO FUCKING SENSE WHATSOEVER and instead of jumping to this vaguely logical conclusion she jumps to ones that move the plot in the direction the author wants it to move. God, I fucking hate Nora. And the author. - Nora's mum. Apparently just decided to go along with marrying someone who wasn't the father of her unborn child, who she'd never met before and she didn't protest at all. Fantastic message to send to teenagers. - Nora's dad's ghost. Might as well have screamed 'I'M A PLOT POINT'. I actually would've preferred it if Nora had accidentally touched Rixon's back instead of having her dead not-dad turn up and tell her to. Ridiculous. - Marcie's dad. Great idea, man, becoming rich and powerful and well known and film TV commercials when you're immortal. I have to say, I didn't see the twist coming with him being Nora's dad but that's mainly because Nora's angel blood lineage was traced by Patch to her dad, and it made no sense to take that away and still have her related to Jules from the previous book, but after a very confusing page of explanation that I had to read three times, I think I understand. Wait no, I don't. A female angel takes over a woman human for 2 weeks, gets her pregnant in that time and somehow, the MAGIC FALLEN ANGELNESS stays in the human's body and creates a first-gen Nephil. Okay then. Miscellaneous complaints: - The 'plot twists'. No. Most were forseeable from a mile away. Most were the exact same twists as the ones in the first book. - The 'ending'. How was that an ending? It finished in the middle of a scene. I know you're meant to end on a cliffhanger to make the reader come back for more but that was ridiculous. It wasn't an ending, it was as if she ran out of pages and just cut the story off mid-way through. More money for nothing must be nice, eh? - Nora never ringing for help. The police at the end of the last book were nice and they were reasonable. At the end of this book, they were nice and reasonable also. Yet Nora, at every opportunity, passed up calling them for help. You get date-rape-drugged and locked in a library? Phone the police? Nah, wander around for a while wasting time, then escape the approaching footsteps by throwing a computer through a window. Someone breaks into your house? Phone the police? Nah, talk to him while he approaches you menacingly and only phone the police when he's knocked unconscious by your ex's best mate who coincidentally appeared. Seriously speaking, the page where Nora described staying up all night thinking about killing herself because she couldn't be with Patch, who she has known for 2 months, had me tearing my hair out. YA vampire/angel type books do this sometimes, the girl acts as if she couldn't live without the guy. I guess the authors must justify this to themselves by thinking that this is not a normal situation, that these impressionable young teenage girls they aim their books at don't actually date vampires and angels, so they won't think their situation compares to the ones in the book. But teenage girls, a lot of the time, think that their first love is everything. So if these protagonists in these books they love so much say they want to kill themselves because THEIR super-special-supernatural love has dumped them after two months, they won't think in terms of reality. They'll take it as encouragement, or normal behaviour, and convince themselves they feel the same, and teen suicide rates will increase and it will be all these shitty piss-poor author's faults. ...more Nee dit is dus geen serie voor mij... Lees hier waarom: http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/... So... I gave in. A little bit of history: my recap/review/exasperated rant of maximum strength of Becca Fitzpatrick\u2019s debut, \u201cHush, Hush\u201d, the 3rd book in the original Sparkle Project, is probably the thing I\u2019m most well known for. In short, I hated the book, primarily because I just couldn\u2019t believe that the author was writing a so-called love story where Patch, the designated male love interest\u2019s abhorrent actions, including stalking, sexual harassment, borderline abuse and threats of murder, So... I gave in. A little bit of history: my recap/review/exasperated rant of maximum strength of Becca Fitzpatrick\u2019s debut, \u201cHush, Hush\u201d, the 3rd book in the original Sparkle Project, is probably the thing I\u2019m most well known for. In short, I hated the book, primarily because I just couldn\u2019t believe that the author was writing a so-called love story where Patch, the designated male love interest\u2019s abhorrent actions, including stalking, sexual harassment, borderline abuse and threats of murder, were considered okay because he was a sexy bad boy. There is a scene in \u201cHush, Hush\u201d where Patch holds Nora down on a bed and tells her how he has planned to kill her... then he kisses her. And this is all okay. I hated this book so much I threw it against a wall twice and it\u2019s become the marker of comparison for every YA book I read in terms of bad romance. I wasn\u2019t going to review \u201cCrescendo\u201d at first. After all, what would be the point? My view of \u201cHush, Hush\u201d was never going to change, even if its sequel ended up being the YA equivalent of \u201cThe Dark Knight.\u201d But the honest truth is this; I wanted to see if things got better. Or worse. Fitzpatrick has gone on the record as saying it took her 5 years to write her first book and she had no intention of writing a sequel until her agent got her a 2 book deal (she now has a three book deal with \u201cSilence\u201d due out this Autumn) so I wanted to see how everything changed. To be honest, I wanted to see what happened next with Patch and Nora. How exactly does one write a romance that\u2019s so obviously dangerous and messed up and pretend everything\u2019s okay? I saw a copy of the book in my local library and decided just to go for it. I need to state this up front, since book bloggers are getting a bad name lately and the atmosphere in YA blogging has become really tense lately; I don\u2019t go into books looking to write bad reviews. Even with the original Sparkle Project, my intention was to analyse a genre trend from the point of view of a feminist YA nerd and spot its problems and perils. Yes, I did it in an incredibly snarky manner which has led some people to disregard my reviews, but my intention was and still is to give the genre the analysis it deserves. It\u2019s not a lesser, inferior mode of literature that deserves a lower opinion from readers. I didn\u2019t go into \u201cCrescendo\u201d wanting to hate it. Honestly, I really wanted this to be better because I want to believe so much that one day we can stop bullshitting around and messing up perceptions of romance and relationships for teenagers. But the honest truth is that \u201cCrescendo\u201d is a huge disappointment, depressingly so. The thing that worried me from the offset in this book, one chapter in (ignoring the prologue that clumsily sets up the intrigue but really gives everything away), is the establishment of Marcie, a flat, incidental character from the first book, as Nora\u2019s \u2018nemesis.\u2019 She is immediately set up as the polar opposite of Nora based on her promiscuous dress sense. A former friend of Nora\u2019s, she now apparently loathes her solely because \u201cyou were born.\u201d She doesn\u2019t get any deeper level of character development throughout the story. She\u2019s the bad girl, the bully, the slut. The slut. And she\u2019s shamed at every possible moment for it. Nora, supposedly the good girl and polar opposite of Nora, frequently makes bad handed references to Marcie being a slut or a whore or any variation on that term and this is reason enough to hate her. Her sexuality is used as a reason to dislike Marcie (although, conveniently enough for Nora, it\u2019s okay for her to be sexually suggestive as well as Patch, because bad boys equal sexy while bad girls equal sluts, and Patch and Nora never actually have sex so they\u2019re pure and worthy to mock Marcie). Being sexually active in any sort of way isn\u2019t just bad, it makes you a bad person. It\u2019s also Marcie who\u2019s constantly at fault in these issues, never Nora or Patch. It\u2019s Marcie that steals Patch from Nora, even though Nora broke up with him! Nora\u2019s never the bad person, even when she admits to doing bad things to Marcie (the instance given \u2013 Nora deliberately picking an unflattering photo of Marcie for the school magazine \u2013 while rather petty, is important to note because Nora is never chastised for these sort of incidents but Marcie constantly is. She also steals Marcie\u2019s diary for further slut-shaming opportunities.) Marcie isn\u2019t the only one that suffers from weak characterisation. Vee, supposedly Nora\u2019s best friend, is here once again to be fat and a form of comic relief, apparently her only defining traits. Scott, the jerk that isn\u2019t Patch, embodies all of the traits Patch has but because he isn\u2019t the designated love interest, he\u2019s not as sexy (but still aesthetically pleasing of course). Nora and Patch don\u2019t evolve at all. In fact, they become even more annoying. Nora, when she isn\u2019t slut shaming to the maximum, has devolved into vaguely psychotic stalker girlfriend territory and Patch is still an utter creep. The majority of their conversations are made up of supposedly charming innuendo which, if coming out of the mouth of someone who didn\u2019t look like a male model, would be sexual harassment, and arguments over petty nothingness in an attempt to get some plot into this story-less mess. Almost everyone in this story knows that Patch is bad news and often tell Nora this, yet common sense just doesn\u2019t exist to her (although her mother seems adamant on setting her up with an equally big douche-bag with a criminal record who seems to get the free pass Patch doesn\u2019t because he was an old childhood friend of Nora\u2019s.) She also seems to be obsessively in lust with Patch rather than love. It\u2019s been established that he cannot feel anything for her on a physical level (so I\u2019m guessing his constant creepy sex talk is some form of over-compensation) but he admits to loving her emotionally, but she says, when breaking up with him (probably her smartest moment), \u201cWhen I kiss my boyfriend, I want to know he feels it.\u201d I tried to find 5 things that Nora and Patch had in common, something for them to discuss as a couple, hobbies to share and the like, and couldn\u2019t find a thing (school activities do not count.) Their obsessive \u2018love\u2019 is their only defining trait, although Nora also seems to be make a beeline into the field of amateur stalking and kleptomania. The relationship seems to be following the now standard pattern for YA \u2013 book one = establishment of true but oh so forbidden love and book two = circumstances bring love to a temporary end. The male figures are constantly asserting their dominance like it\u2019s a peacock strutting competition; there\u2019s one worrying scene where Scott grabs Nora and she screams for help yet nobody does. Someone even laughs at her. Between this and the horrid biology scene in the first novel, I can\u2019t help but worry about the attitudes towards women in these books, especially when it\u2019s fair to use the word \u2018attack.\u2019 The story is so clearly following a derivative pattern that you can practically seen the join-the-dots. While there is less emphasis on the love story \u2013 phew \u2013 the mystery that makes up the majority of the plot plods along with no real finesse or surprises, with characters doing and saying stupid stuff solely for plot advancement. There are a few interesting moments here and there but it\u2019s all handled so clumsily with inconsistent plotting that it\u2019s difficult to care, a hefty task when this novel is also populated with a cast that varies from the forgettable to the lazily characterized to the downright awful. It all wraps up with a big cliff hanger that has potential but having been burned so much from this sequel, even my masochistically curious side isn\u2019t very interested in seeing what happens next. \u201cCrescendo\u201d is not a good book in any sense of the word. It suffers from the same problems \u201cHush, Hush\u201d did \u2013 poor plotting and pacing, weak characterisation, lazy mythos, derivative and predictable paranormal romance traits \u2013 as well as some elements I just can\u2019t ignore. I hate slut-shaming, everyone should hate it. It\u2019s a false stereotype, it does nothing but label and demeans women and it reinforces old assumptions about women and sex that we just do not need in our world, especially in our teenage world. Marcie Millar is characterised solely on her sexuality and how bad it makes her. She likes sex because she\u2019s bad and she\u2019s bad because she likes sex. It\u2019s unfair, it\u2019s reinforcing stereotypes and it\u2019s just plain lazy characterisation. On top of all this we have Nora Grey who has quickly become one of the most unlikeable, irrational, paranoid, hysterical and downright stupid characters in young adult fiction. I\u2019m pretty offended on behalf of teenage girls everywhere that are supposed to relate to her. Good old Patch is out of the scene for a lot of this book but he remains a jerk. Nice to know some things don\u2019t change. I worried about the reinforcement of rape culture in \u201cHush, Hush\u201d and now I worry about the perpetuation of slut-shaming and the virgin-whore dichotomy in \u201cCrescendo.\u201d I shudder to think what \u201cSilence\u201d will bring us. Overall, yet again I remain perplexed as to how these books have become as popular as they have. We have to do better than filling books for teenage girls full of the same old falsehood that short skirts and an interest in sex equals a spoiled moral code. Surely we\u2019re better than this? ...more Deber\u00eda ser ilegal que un libro terminara as\u00ed, en serio. Este libro fue muy distinto a Hush Hush, en ciertas partes me gusto menos, y en otras mas, pero creo que lo supero. Luego de conocer todo este mundo, van reapareciendo temas que no se tocaron muy a fondo en el primer libro, como la muerte del padre de Nora, y eso me gusto mucho. Hablando de Nora, en este libro se vuelve totalmente infumable, insoportable. Se que algunas de sus acciones son justificadas, pero joder, a veces dan ganas de mat Deber\u00eda ser ilegal que un libro terminara as\u00ed, en serio. Este libro fue muy distinto a Hush Hush, en ciertas partes me gusto menos, y en otras mas, pero creo que lo supero. Luego de conocer todo este mundo, van reapareciendo temas que no se tocaron muy a fondo en el primer libro, como la muerte del padre de Nora, y eso me gusto mucho. Hablando de Nora, en este libro se vuelve totalmente infumable, insoportable. Se que algunas de sus acciones son justificadas, pero joder, a veces dan ganas de matarla, ademas, hay cosas que son OBVIAS que no son verdad, que son cosas que ella se imagina, o a veces es como que le dijeras \"VAMOS NORA, QUIERES MORIR? VEN CONMIGO\" y ella va, siempre haciendo las cosas mas est\u00fapidas. Por otra parte, se que en algunos sentidos se puede desconfiar de Patch, pero vamos, conocemos a Patch, conocemos como es, las cosas que hace. Nora, a ver chica, vos NO sos todo por lo que Patch se tiene que preocupar, hay otras cosas mas importantes que est\u00e1n pasando al rededor, y a veces necesitas entender que hay todo un mundo muyyy grande aparte de vos, Patch no puede estar todo el maldito tiempo contigo. Si fuera por mi Marcie podr\u00eda morir perfectamente, porque es una perra maldita. Hasta cuando Patch le dice a Nora como son las cosas y esta sigue dudando, un poco de confianza mujerrr!! Todav\u00eda que Patch esta con una persona insoportable como vos, agradece. En este libro aparece un nuevo personaje, Scott. Sinceramente no lo amo, pero tampoco lo odio. Sus actitudes son bastantes raras, hay momentos que te da ganas de matarlo, y otras en que es como bah, d\u00e9jenlo ah\u00ed, no molesta. Pero todav\u00eda siento que no lo conocemos totalmente. El final fue MUY MUY KE?\u00bf? PORQUE?\u00bf? DONDE?\u00bf QUE\u00bf?\u00bf y as\u00ed. Primero que nada no me esperaba que ESA persona hubiera sido el culpable de la muerte del padre de Nora, o sea, mierda, yo amaba a (view spoiler) [Rixon (hide spoiler) ] \u00bfporque EL tenia que ser el culpable?, una vez que te encari\u00f1as con un personaje y bum, es el malvado de la historia. Estuve MUY nerviosa en esos \u00faltimos momentos, en serio. Y cuando ya creo que ya paso todo lo malo, bum, la bomba. PORQUE TIENE QUE TERMINAR AS\u00cd, PORQUE?\u00bf? Becca ... [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I read Hush, Hush in a day I have to admit it is very addicting, very good writing. I love it, I mean I am honestly thinking of re reading it again the very next day, so I have it marked on my calendar for when this book 'Crescendo' comes out because honestly I was just thinking to myself 'God I hope there is a part 2! Honestly I am strictly Vampire 'Romance' type of girl... (no not twilight, Sookie Stackhouse, Morganville, Anita Blake, etc) untill I came upon two books. Fallen... and Hush Hush. I read Hush, Hush in a day I have to admit it is very addicting, very good writing. I love it, I mean I am honestly thinking of re reading it again the very next day, so I have it marked on my calendar for when this book 'Crescendo' comes out because honestly I was just thinking to myself 'God I hope there is a part 2! Honestly I am strictly Vampire 'Romance' type of girl... (no not twilight, Sookie Stackhouse, Morganville, Anita Blake, etc) untill I came upon two books. Fallen... and Hush Hush.. and I gotta say, Fallen Angles are def with the Vampires in my book at the moment. WONDERFUL JOB Becca! -2 thumbs up- ...more Wow. It looks breathtaking. I really can't wait!!!- DYING TO READ IT... Hush HUsh is my fav book in the world- and I will do anything for it. It is my life, my destiny, and really my everything. Though I don't get the Marcie Millar part (my 6th sense tellin me that itz a distraction) I am looking forward to the father's past. I love u!! (talkin 2 the book) I really liked the ending!! What is it with female protagonists finding guys who are complete assholes attractive? I don't understand. Nora pisses me off so damn much. All she wants is Patch. Ugh. And Vee? Worst friend in the history of civilization. She's so damn annoying as well.", "Title": "Crescendo"},
