{"Comments": "I enjoyed this book cover to cover. It really struck a chord with me.<---F> The story line is quite good</---F>. The book is compelling and inspirational. Angela's journey is the focal point of <+++>Explosion in Paris</+++> in which the author interweaves suspenseful accounts of her most harrowing crises with inspiring moments of reflection that lead her to self-reliance and self-discovery. She is desperate to bring focus and meaning to her life again after a disastrous marriage ends catastrophically. The clarity of the I enjoyed this book cover to cover. It really struck a chord with me. The story line is quite good. The book is compelling and inspirational. Angela's journey is the focal point of <+++>Explosion in Paris</+++> in which the author interweaves suspenseful accounts of her most harrowing crises with inspiring moments of reflection that lead her to self-reliance and self-discovery. She is desperate to bring focus and meaning to her life again after a disastrous marriage ends catastrophically. The clarity of the author's writing makes Angela's story,<---M> in a quiet way</---M>, nearly as riveting and palpable an adventure as her grief and torment, earlier in the story. She got tougher. Instead of continuing her fall into the void in the throes of despair, she chose to fight. The lack of ease in her life made her angry but it played a role in finding her voice and expressing it but with a sense of humor. Her journey is awe-inspiring, brutal and touching in equal measures. The book's greatest achievement lies in the examination of Angela's emotional landscape but my favorite parts are the way she chose to confront Mitch with his crimes closer to the end. She emerges from her despairing journey as a connoisseur of the human heart and the rebirth it helped to inspire. I think this is a powerful read and I am grateful that I chose to read it. I feel as if I made the window-into-Angela's-soul journey with her. I loved Courtney also in that she wasn't afraid to show that she had some backbone and refused to take the easy way out, even though ultimately she paid a heavy price to maintain her integrity and dignity. Many things we might think are too hard or inaccessible to us are just waiting for us to find the spirit and courage to try. Such great life lessons could be learned from Angela's exciting and remarkable journey. This is also perfect for men, because it reveals that not all women are weak and unable to take on a challenge. It is an opportunity for men to see into a woman's soul, unless he is a \"Mitch\" type. If that is the case, it is doubtful that he will \"get it\". This was a compelling book that I read over the course of a couple of days. Well done! ...more One day while surfing the net I came across this book. I had never read anything by this author but her books sounded interesting. Reading books about lives of quiet desperation usually don\u2019t bring me joy but I was drawn into this one and I was completely sold on these characters. The storyline took me so far away from my own daily life that I felt rather lost when I wasn\u2019t reading it. The suspense wasn\u2019t super mind-blowing, except for the explosion scene, (<---B>very well done</---B>) but the need to know w One day while surfing the net I came across this book. I had never read anything by this author but her books sounded interesting. Reading books about lives of quiet desperation usually don\u2019t bring me joy but I was drawn into this one and I was completely sold on these characters. The storyline took me so far away from my own daily life that I felt rather lost when I wasn\u2019t reading it. The suspense wasn\u2019t super mind-blowing, except for the explosion scene, (very well done) but the need to know what was going to happen next had me on the edge of my seat. At its heart, it is the tale of a young woman, Angela, enslaved, mind, body, and spirit, as her husband, Mitch, chips away at her soul. She forces herself into a mold that doesn\u2019t fit. Her emotional life is balancing on a delicate, invisible thread. A traumatizing and horrific life-threatening incident opens the door to emancipation\u2026and she steps through it without hesitation. After waking up in hospital far from home with a concussion and a lacerated shoulder, she fakes amnesia until she figures out what to do next. This is the epitome of restraint\u2026\u2026 passions, and moral dilemmas, in writing that is both beautiful and razor sharp. The brief budding relationship between Angela and Ross, I have to say is Hot, Hot, Hot! I\u2019m all a-swoon! ; the fights between Mitch and Courtney, gritty and stark, well matched, well played and written to bring the reader front row and center; Paris crisp culture, manners, food ,flowers, and markets; St Remy, home, more food, flowers, and trees, pure rural splendor. The dialog and interchange between the cast of characters never ceased to astound me; amazing combination of wit, jokes and seriousness; one-liners provided comic relief that lightened the load. I seemed to vacillate between laughing so hard that my face hurt and from the depth of emotion in the serious conversations had me next to tears. I think this is a richly rewarding novel, psychologically acute and morally complex. It can and should be read on many levels, but it is first and foremost a harrowing tale of survival. In my opinion, people who read this are in for a treat. Interestingly, I found myself equally drawn to the secondary characters. I hope this is an open-ended beginning of a series. Curl up on your couch with your favorite drink and allow yourself to be transported to Paris, then St. Remy and live vicariously in a creative life lived at full throttle. ...more Explosion in Paris <---A>Linda Masemore Pirrung</---A> (2009) ISBN 9781440140747 Reviewed by Carol Hoyer, PhD, for Reader Views (7/09) From the moment readers start to read they will find themselves caught up in the life of Mitch and Angie \u2013 a couple who fell madly in love and dreamed of a wonderful life together. But there was another side of Mitch Angie didn\u2019t know about. He wanted everything perfect in his world and he would accept no less, even in his wife. He began controlling her by making very strong Explosion in Paris Linda Masemore Pirrung (2009) ISBN 9781440140747 Reviewed by Carol Hoyer, PhD, for Reader Views (7/09) From the moment readers start to read they will find themselves caught up in the life of Mitch and Angie \u2013 a couple who fell madly in love and dreamed of a wonderful life together. But there was another side of Mitch Angie didn\u2019t know about. He wanted everything perfect in his world and he would accept no less, even in his wife. He began controlling her by making very strong suggestions about what she should do about working, her family and friends. Angie knew this wasn\u2019t how she wanted to live her life, but felt she had no control until she accidentally met Ross Stafford. Ross is everything Mitch isn\u2019t and Angie is pulled into his strength, wisdom and loving nature. Thinking that her friendship with Ross is a secret, Angie continues to be pulled into his world; little did she know Mitch knew everything. While on a trip to Paris, Mitch attempts to kill Angie. He has no idea that she has escaped safely and has taken refuge in France, changing her name, her lifestyle and her appearance. Living in an isolated home, she begins to discover herself again and lives for the day that she will reconnect with Ross. This is a book that will have you rooting for Angie and Ross and wishing that Mitch would just magically disappear. The characters are built gradually so that you can relate to them in every way. Parts of the book will make a reader mad and thinking of different ways to get rid of the \u201cmonster.\u201d \u201cExplosion in Paris\u201d by Linda Masemore Pirrung is really a very fascinating book in every way ...more A fight for life book. Reading this book was like opening a window into my heart and soul. It was an alluring, multi-dimensional story, a witty, double-edged tale of intrigue, romance and French culture. What could have been a mournful, hopelessly bleak story, (the way it started), but instead perseverance, and sheer will turned adversity into an uplifting tale of triumph of the human spirit. The author unveils the mask of evil in the grizzly details of a murderer who murders to get control. Thi A fight for life book. Reading this book was like opening a window into my heart and soul. It was an alluring, multi-dimensional story, a witty, double-edged tale of intrigue, romance and French culture. What could have been a mournful, hopelessly bleak story, (the way it started), but instead perseverance, and sheer will turned adversity into an uplifting tale of triumph of the human spirit. The author unveils the mask of evil in the grizzly details of a murderer who murders to get control. This provides a suspenseful backdrop to a beautiful love story and the ideal essence of life. Angie remained in a state of emotional limbo of quiet desperation until she met Ross, who was everything Mitch wasn't. The emotional tension with the blossoming friendship with Ross and then the possibility of forbidden love kept me on an emotional high then my heart pounded louder and harder as the storyline switched gears leading to a threatening, dark, dangerous place, hence \"EXPLOSION\" in EXPLOSION IN PARIS. Never go on a boat alone with someone you don't trust!! Angie's soaring spirit rose above the atrocities she'd endured to embrace life and struggle to find a life of her own outside of the emotional prison that Mitch was determined to keep her in. I was totally immersed in the life she'd carved out for herself, even envied her! I was intrigued by so many of Angie's unexpected maneuvers to seek justice for Mitch's murderous tasks. There were tons of surprises that kept me entertained and attached to the book. The light-hearted humor throughout in conversations along with witty, playful banter added such depth to the characters. The dialog was completely entertaining and kept me chuckling, if not laughing out loud. There were many memorable, profound quotes I enjoyed. \"Life is CHOOSING to love.\" \"We need to forgive ourselves and everyone else for NOT being perfect.\" \"We are all looking for the Fairy Tale. When it doesn't come, we try to create it.\" I love the tidbits of philosophy throughout. The background story is cleverly woven into the storyline without slowing down the pace of the plot and the dramatic events take the story in a whole new direction and kept me hooked and in a trance. The reckoning came when Angie saw to it that Mitch was forced to face his demons. In a world of endless, been there, done that romance, far out, unimaginable science fiction and unbelievable vampires, witches and werewolves, this amazing voice of real life, inspiration, believability and depth presents a deliciously satisfying, unforgettable, intriguing, riveting story that is worth reading and remembering! This one could change the way you see yourself and the world. ...more I was pleasantly surprised by this book! When I first read the jacket and looked at the cover I assumed it was another romance novel. I was wrong. The characters were very real and the story was so interesting that I didn't want to put it down. This is more of a compelling mystery \u2013 suspense that has you eager to turn the page to see what is in store for these believable characters. A realistic modern marriage goes bad and leads down a murderous path and the joy of the right mix of personalities I was pleasantly surprised by this book! When I first read the jacket and looked at the cover I assumed it was another romance novel. I was wrong. The characters were very real and the story was so interesting that I didn't want to put it down. This is more of a compelling mystery \u2013 suspense that has you eager to turn the page to see what is in store for these believable characters. A realistic modern marriage goes bad and leads down a murderous path and the joy of the right mix of personalities creates real love. It is refreshing to read an author whose excellent vocabulary and writing style makes the reading extra pleasurable and intertwined with such a powerful storyline makes a great novel. This book was way more in depth than your average romance and had a nice surprise ending. The epilogue was my favorite part. ...more HELD ME CAPTIVE PAGE AFTER PAGE From all of the beautifully written reviews, my expectations were pretty high, but this book actually exceeded my expectations. Where do I start? A mark of a good book is its ability to take the reader to new places, to be placed in someone else\u2019s shoes to be enabled to see the world from an entirely different vantage point. A superb command of language is revealed in this exciting escapade fraught with unpredictable turns and interesting elements and details. The s HELD ME CAPTIVE PAGE AFTER PAGE From all of the beautifully written reviews, my expectations were pretty high, but this book actually exceeded my expectations. Where do I start? A mark of a good book is its ability to take the reader to new places, to be placed in someone else\u2019s shoes to be enabled to see the world from an entirely different vantage point. A superb command of language is revealed in this exciting escapade fraught with unpredictable turns and interesting elements and details. The strength of this thriller is not in the whodunit but in the clever plot line. This book was a revelation and continues to affect me months later. EXPLOSION IN PARIS, while a stunning source of exciting entertainment, also serves a purpose that far outweighs tickling your fancy. I enjoy writing reviews on books I truly find distinctive and special. Suffice it to say that the impact of Angela\u2019s life enriched mine. The venomous villain didn\u2019t disappoint with his dark and twisted expectations. This brings the question to mind, how far would any of us go to save our loved ones? Desperate circumstances call for desperate measures. The sprinkling of French phrases throughout added much realism and authenticity to Angela\u2019s new haven. The soul-searching words and the healthy dose of humor drew me in and made me hungry to fill my life with joy. I found myself enthused by the life-changing message and felt that it reached into my chest and gave my heart a squeeze. I think it will change the readers\u2019 perspective about the hard times in their lives and find joy in spite of them. With each poignant chapter I learned the lesson that there is no fear in love. If there is pain and fear, it can not be love. Some parts I read through a blur of tears. But, on the whole, I found this to be a heart-wrenching, but also heart-warming journey from heartache to pure joy that will renew the readers\u2019 spirit. This book oozes \"joie de vivre\". It is shear reading pleasure as the author takes us through Paris, and Provence, with rapturous descriptions that tease the senses with the aroma of fresh baked bread, the fragrance of the lavender and herb fields; the sights of ancient buildings and cobblestone streets; the succulent tastes of the French cuisine. French cuisine is an art form to be appreciated and enjoyed and not rushed. To capture and share a remarkable life, the joy, the humor, the honesty and the passion, is a wonderful recipe for life. The French know how to enjoy the pleasures of life. It is clear Angela\u2019s spiritual home is Les Plus beaux villages de France. She found true passion for life, and embraced it completely. Angela\u2019s energy, sense of humor, intelligence and zest for life shine through each page. I felt such an affinity and admiration for the characters. The story reinforced my belief that there is so much we can learn from each other. I have great respect for authors or anyone, for that matter, who are responsible for changing people\u2019s mindsets for the better. People who seem to have a self-appointed moral compass need to look within to research the why of their urgent need to be right and to be better than everyone else and to be the center of all attention. I recently read ASK AND IT IS GIVEN. This is another book I give high marks for and that I recommend highly. We get what we give, in a nutshell. EXPLOSION IN PARIS is a wonderful representation of this. This book is the fabric of human conditioning. It opens our eyes to the blessings that most of us take for granted, namely freedom; freedom to be ourselves, to be who we are at heart. This book is guaranteed to truly deepen your empathy towards others\u2019 plight in the world and the all-important human decency. I fell in love with the engrossing, engaging characters, filled with strength and courage that I wanted to hug or slap or love. It unleashed surprisingly unrestrained moments of gut-wrenching laughter; then, before I knew it, I was reaching for a tissue to wipe the tears away. I was touched by all of the emotions I felt while completely absorbed in the characters\u2019 lives. This is a happy book. Every line of this book is filled with energy, enthusiasm and delight. EXPLOSION IN PARIS is a breathtakingly powerful soul-mending and motivating read that inspires hope that reflects clearly in the rebirth of the heart. I devoured this book and hated to see it end. This was one I\u2019ve read that as time passed I found myself missing it. ...more Awesome and exciting! A wonderful girl makes good book full of positives; a woman clearly makes lemonade out of bitter harsh lemons and creates a life to admire. I love these kinds of books ! I just finished reading again! C'EST MAGNIFIQUE! A TREAT FOR THE HEART AND MIND! I can't believe that none of these wonderful reviews touched on my very favorite part of the book, Angie's new life in her adopted country, Provence, France, adjusting to a new culture, creating a new identity, restarting her career, meeting new friends, and so on. Haven't you ever daydreamed about life as you wished it to be? That's what this book is, a thoroughly enjoyable retreat from our daily troubles. I LOOOVE this book! This novel will make C'EST MAGNIFIQUE! A TREAT FOR THE HEART AND MIND! I can't believe that none of these wonderful reviews touched on my very favorite part of the book, Angie's new life in her adopted country, Provence, France, adjusting to a new culture, creating a new identity, restarting her career, meeting new friends, and so on. Haven't you ever daydreamed about life as you wished it to be? That's what this book is, a thoroughly enjoyable retreat from our daily troubles. I LOOOVE this book! This novel will make you want to pack up and hop a plane to the south of France. What a charming, enchanting picture the author paints portraying the wonderful people of Provence with humor and great appreciation and of the much celebrated Paris, so wonderfully, perfectly picturesque. I love these kinds of books! Angela Briann Scott is a heroine to all who read this book, I am sure, who secretly harbor the desire to do as she did and throw her all into making a fantastic life for herself in an unfamiliar and exotic new land. Whether it is Provence or somewhere else, such abandon is attractive and begs to be followed. In her case she had no choice, really; her life was thrown off balance; she needed to save her life, protect herself, and those she loved. Mitch wanted her dead and she knew he would stop at nothing to achieve his goal. I asked myself, what would I have done? What makes this novel so wonderful is the author's brilliant observations on human nature and her masterful use of language which makes it such an illuminating read. It was fascinating to read how Angie's thought processes and ideas slowly changed to reflect that of the French. The author manages to capture the importance of PLACE, in our lives, what makes \"home\", and the countless ways that a place, as much as a person, can somehow comfort and thoroughly reinvigorate us. This is loaded with mystery and revelation, just like life, only infinitely more entertaining. There is a lot of book packed into this single novel. She does not skimp on detail, but does not elaborate so much that it becomes tedious. The book oozes with deep love for the people, their culture and the sumptuous land that surrounds them. The love story is loving and sweet and real and Pirrung didn't resort to the unfortunate romance convention of describing the physical love-making in graphic detail, making this suitable for young adult reading. It was a pleasure, not to mention, an eye-opener to read. EVERY woman and man will find something to appreciate amid the vast array of delights found in this book. A desire to follow Angie's lead and escape her prison and move to an 18th century farm house in Provence and do major renovations remains undiminished. This enchanting insight into French culture is above all a comfortably-paced, intensely-felt reflection on appreciating the best that every day has to offer, something that the French do extraordinarily well. Savor a good meal; take plenty of time to appreciate all the hours it took to be prepared, and they DO spend a massive amount of time making meals. Some dishes take three days to prepare! Unbelievable! No one in America takes time to cook anymore. Life is too fast, too full, too busy! We could learn a lot! I soaked up every word. ...more This book rocks! This book was my book club's choice and am happy to report it a success. EXPLOSION IN PARIS is a riveting, page-turning thrill ride with a side order of great introspection, soul-searching and love. I was totally sucked into this story! I can not imagine the weight that Angie carried on her shoulders! I loved how she thought more of saving Ross from harm and did not succumb to \"instant gratification\" by running to him for protection after the explosion , (like most of us would p This book rocks! This book was my book club's choice and am happy to report it a success. EXPLOSION IN PARIS is a riveting, page-turning thrill ride with a side order of great introspection, soul-searching and love. I was totally sucked into this story! I can not imagine the weight that Angie carried on her shoulders! I loved how she thought more of saving Ross from harm and did not succumb to \"instant gratification\" by running to him for protection after the explosion , (like most of us would probably find ourselves doing). She took on the burden of staying out of the picture until she found a way to bring Mitch to justice in order for their lives to go on in safety. But I was absolutely heart broken that in that pause of time that Mitch was allowed to continue to kill. I searched for a way that Angela could have done it another way, faster! But then, that would be silly! It's like watching a movie over again in the hopes that the ending would change, in the back of your mind, (even though we know better), but still the mind does tend to wander ahead and rewrite the script. I guess we all want the sugar-coated fairy tale. The only disappointment I had was I felt so sorry for Courtney too! I wanted that situation to come out happier! And Angie's sister, Shea, even though it was obvious that there was a happy ending in store for her beyond the end. Complete happy endings are rare in real life. The plot in this book is what makes this story a must read for everyone. All ages, both genders, all walks of life; everyone can connect to human good verses evil, right and wrong, and the search for goodness. I loved that there was no crying, whining or pouting! I can not tolerate people who feel so sorry for themselves that they make everyone want to turn around and run when they see them approaching. All the characters were courageous and took the bull by the horns rebounding from their traumatic circumstances with strength and wit. The ending was breathtaking. It was a wonderful ending to a wonderful, bittersweet tale even though I did not want it to end. It could be made into a sequel, (oh I hope so!), as well as leaving it to the readers' sense of \"happily ever after\". It was the perfect blend of everything I love in a book or a movie. I was hanging onto my seat one minute, sighing aloud the next; laughing, crying, grabbing my heart, jumping out of my seat with frustration, then ultimately settling back with a satisfied smile as I finished the last magnificent page. It flows effortlessly not necessarily all tied up in a pretty satin bow, but, like life, with a bittersweet trail to the very satisfying, perfect, sigh-worthy ending as my eyes held my tears until they finally spilled over. As in real life, seldom the future is as sure as hope would have us dream. I can only say, \"see\" into the storyline, the moral to the story, grasp the meaning and the possibilities, absorb the goodness and sense of purpose. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did. ...more Hypnotic Tale of a Young Woman's Journey to get her Life Back! Explosion in Paris is a compelling story of love, intrigue, foreign adventure and personal growth. It was unputdownable for me, especially once I got to chapter three! I loved every minute of this hauntingly beautiful novel, although almost a little too good to be true in a place or two. I could picture everything so well, like a film playing out before my eyes, the conflicts so vivid and the backdrop of France was delicious! There se Hypnotic Tale of a Young Woman's Journey to get her Life Back! Explosion in Paris is a compelling story of love, intrigue, foreign adventure and personal growth. It was unputdownable for me, especially once I got to chapter three! I loved every minute of this hauntingly beautiful novel, although almost a little too good to be true in a place or two. I could picture everything so well, like a film playing out before my eyes, the conflicts so vivid and the backdrop of France was delicious! There seems to be a dignity and great spirit to the pristine writing style. It presents a strong voice that raises questions that we ourselves feel compelled to answer in our own lives. This is a courageous book, not only because the story is volatile in places, but it\u2019s the choices that are made between what one wants and what one does, a good depiction of life's contradictions. This ethics-driven novel meets you on every level, sensual, emotional, and intellectual and interweaves the physical world with the philosophical quandary. This novel shows you a world that is achingly poignant and complex. I\u2019ll have to admit, I was ready to jump right in! I very warmly recommend this riveting, page-turning and unforgettable book. ...more The opening chapter of EXPLOSION IN PARIS grabs the reader's attention immediately and sets the tone for the storyline. After so many nail-biting and riveting twists and surprises, the ending was a satisfying and tearful pleasure and I wanted to go right back to the beginning and read it again. If you love thrills and chills and romance thrown into the mix, as much as I do, settle in for a fascinating ride. The intriguing premise where the sympathetic but ultimately strong and courageous characte The opening chapter of EXPLOSION IN PARIS grabs the reader's attention immediately and sets the tone for the storyline. After so many nail-biting and riveting twists and surprises, the ending was a satisfying and tearful pleasure and I wanted to go right back to the beginning and read it again. If you love thrills and chills and romance thrown into the mix, as much as I do, settle in for a fascinating ride. The intriguing premise where the sympathetic but ultimately strong and courageous character, Angela Scott, has suffered more than her share of anguish living with her controlling, heartless monster of a husband. Mitch\u2019s sinister agenda offers up an opportunity to escape her prison where the best is yet to come. The story is perfectly balanced with emotions blossoming into real love (emotions thought to be long gone cold), and her plight, struggling to survive horrific terror. This was a fast-paced, engrossing, and engaging book. The characters were all terrific and real. I can\u2019t imagine anyone could be disappointed with this spellbinder and it will leave you hungering for this author\u2019s next book! This comes under the heading, Romantic / Suspense. Don't miss it! ...more Captivating. Easy read. Great summer beach book. Will read more of this authors works. Enthralling, atmospheric, powerful, and simply mesmerizing, \u201cExplosion in Paris\u201d is one of the best books I\u2019ve read this year! I knew very little about this book and author so I entered into the experience with no preconceived notions or expectations. I'll have to say---I thoroughly enjoyed this book! In fact, it may just be my favorite book of 2011 thus far. Frequently dazzling, \u201cExplosion in Paris\u201d is a book about the interplay of survival, about the stirrings and transformations set unavoidably Enthralling, atmospheric, powerful, and simply mesmerizing, \u201cExplosion in Paris\u201d is one of the best books I\u2019ve read this year! I knew very little about this book and author so I entered into the experience with no preconceived notions or expectations. I'll have to say---I thoroughly enjoyed this book! In fact, it may just be my favorite book of 2011 thus far. Frequently dazzling, \u201cExplosion in Paris\u201d is a book about the interplay of survival, about the stirrings and transformations set unavoidably in motion by a passing coincidence of fate. In a breathtaking array of tones ranging from disappointment and being stuck in a dead marriage to tragedy to uncompromising reinvention, the author captures the undertow of self-destruction that we all must either master or succumb to. We learn the genesis of Angela\u2019s turmoil, the hidden yearnings and disappointments of her violent marriage. The characters\u2019 lives and fates claim the story first and foremost, and I was pulled right in. This is a harrowing psychological drama that is as thought-provoking as it is riveting and soon gives way to a suspense thriller. But beyond pleasurable reading, the novel had me questioning what I'd want and do in a similar circumstance. The prose is lush and descriptive. The book made me a believer with its compelling plot and challenging questions. Could I start to rebuild a meaningful life? When is a circumstance so problematic that it becomes insurmountable? The author prods to the very soul of Angela and the other characters as well, and it is fascinating, disturbing, and memorable. The last time I had such a visceral response to a novel was \"The Shack\". I felt the frustration, anguish, fear, and desperation. Any story that can elicit such a reaction or emotion out of my heart earns my great respect. The journey to the truth is devastatingly heartfelt and fraught with peril and uncertainty. I really loved this book! And for getting inside my mind and heart so completely, I have to give it the highest ranking from a purely emotional level. With a premise as deceptively simple as this, execution is everything. I thought the pacing was pitch perfect and breathtaking to keep the reader at full attention. It had substance, credibility and incredible flow. This is an author with a deep commitment to character, about whom you come to care deeply as you watch the protagonists doing things they shouldn't, acting gloriously, exasperatingly human, in her expert flaying of human shortcomings. The characters made me laugh, cry, laugh all over again, and cry some more. Such is the stuff great novels are made of. Madison Pridgen, A member of Between the Lines book club ...more I wasn't sure I liked this book at first because it had the male character as an abuser (psychological and then physical) but it was good to see Angie start to stand up to him after meeting Ross, a guy that brought out the best in her. Angie & Ross have a deep friendship that turns into more. All is going well until Angie has to accompany her husband to Paris....where there is an Explosion. Life is not the same after that for Angie or Ross. definitely a good read, perhaps it could have done w I wasn't sure I liked this book at first because it had the male character as an abuser (psychological and then physical) but it was good to see Angie start to stand up to him after meeting Ross, a guy that brought out the best in her. Angie & Ross have a deep friendship that turns into more. All is going well until Angie has to accompany her husband to Paris....where there is an Explosion. Life is not the same after that for Angie or Ross. definitely a good read, perhaps it could have done with a little less descriptive parts, but overall it was hard for me to put down and a fast read ...more This is a wonderful book to escape into with dazzling characters, a believable and intriguing storyline and adventure and romance. It is intoxicating with many interesting turn of events and funny escapades that balance out the heartbreaking parts. A lot of \u201ckick-you-know-what\u201d that I really enjoyed. Especially women will enjoy this. I highly recommend. EXPLOSION IN PARIS was, for me, an inspiring, page-turning read. I recommend it to all. No one should endure an abusive relationship, in a marriage, or otherwise. We have choices and this book shows you the way with wit and charm and humor. I just loved this! Angela Briann Scott and Mitchell Scott are a couple who fell in love and expected to have a wonderful life together. But there was another side of Mitch that marrigae brought out. Angie finds herself in a sad marriage to a controlling, emoti EXPLOSION IN PARIS was, for me, an inspiring, page-turning read. I recommend it to all. No one should endure an abusive relationship, in a marriage, or otherwise. We have choices and this book shows you the way with wit and charm and humor. I just loved this! Angela Briann Scott and Mitchell Scott are a couple who fell in love and expected to have a wonderful life together. But there was another side of Mitch that marrigae brought out. Angie finds herself in a sad marriage to a controlling, emotionally abusive man who has cut her off from her friends, career and family. She does not want to continue living like this but her self-esteem has been beaten down and fears change. Her desires and dreams find themselves bottoming out after she accidentally and innocently meets Ross Stafford; becoming friends, sees light at the end of a long, dark tunnel through his goodness and positive attitude. Mitchell, however, feels threatened by these circumstances and decides to solve his perceived problem. It is here that the excitement truly begins after Mitch blows up a schooner in France that unconscious Angie is on. After her \"death\", Angela rebuilds her life in St. Remy, feigning amnesia, and becoming a whole new person. She plans to expose Mitch for his crimes and the way she does this in so entertaining I laughed out loud and shouted, \"yes!\", again and again. Thoroughly entertaining! Mitch moves on too, by remarrying. While Angela's life explodes with wonder, Mitchell's world goes awry as his new wife, Courtney, isn't as compliant as Angela was. Meanwhile, both Ross and Angela's sister grieve over their loss and go on the best they can, while trying to prove Mitch of murder. There is so much more than this brief synopsis; lots of surprises and twists in the plot and sit-on-the-edge-of-your-seat tension from start to finish. This is a fine romantic / suspense novel that is sure to please. EXPLOSION IN PARIS is a fascinating read in all ways. I thoroughly enjoyed it. ...more Explosion in Paris is my latest must read book. This is a journal of the heart, soul and mind and we are much the better for having read it. It has the right mix of romance, heartache and inspiration that made it a favorite of mine. It is loaded with human drama of jaw dropping accomplishment in the most desperate circumstances. Angela has erected a fortress around her heart in an effort to find resilience to hang on to her dignity and humanity. Mitch, her husband, is a complex soul, (if he has Explosion in Paris is my latest must read book. This is a journal of the heart, soul and mind and we are much the better for having read it. It has the right mix of romance, heartache and inspiration that made it a favorite of mine. It is loaded with human drama of jaw dropping accomplishment in the most desperate circumstances. Angela has erected a fortress around her heart in an effort to find resilience to hang on to her dignity and humanity. Mitch, her husband, is a complex soul, (if he has a soul) and everything about him is contrary to everything Angela knows about love and affection. This is a disturbing but intriguing plot written with a sense of humor that makes us care about the characters. Ross enters Angela\u2019s life quite unexpectedly. He is finally able to reach her heart and turn her life into a hopeful and meaningful one. She decides that she is worthy of a better life, almost too late. There is great fight for life suspense where I was literally holding my breath and great sadness at the loss of life of one of my favorite characters in the book. I was pleased with the depth of writing. The beginning was a bit depressing and hit home for me but in the end it was a very touching book of self-discovery. It is a beautiful account of sorrow and joy, anxiety, stamina and self-preservation. This is a moving testament to courage. Read this book and if you are not changed by it I would be disappointed. ...more I loved the end of this beautiful story. I could read it over and over again and never get tired of it. The great plot line, well thought out characters, realistic feelings and believable settings were captivating. The reckoning was simply amazing and fulfilling to the reader in all ways. This book holds so much suspense and thrill that I don't see it fathonable for readers to be disappointed. So many plot twists combined with wonderful story telling and topped off with a sweet romance that is t I loved the end of this beautiful story. I could read it over and over again and never get tired of it. The great plot line, well thought out characters, realistic feelings and believable settings were captivating. The reckoning was simply amazing and fulfilling to the reader in all ways. This book holds so much suspense and thrill that I don't see it fathonable for readers to be disappointed. So many plot twists combined with wonderful story telling and topped off with a sweet romance that is the icing on the cake makes for exciting and satisfying reading. You will want to savor each chapter. The writing is top notch. I am not sure if I can find words to describe how I felt about this book. The nail-biting suspense was almost non-stop and the budding romance had me holding my breath and then squealing with delight. I had tears in my eyes off and on throughout, out of sheer joy or anger. I was so mad at one of the characters I wish I could have slapped him. The ending was the best ever! The style of writing has a special, artful flare that sets the romance and feelings on fire and the delicate display of scenes that lack vulgarity. Another awesome book by my new favorite author. I truly love all the hours of entertainment I receive from her novels. Even my husband read this and enjoyed it. She hasn't disappointed me yet! ...more Among many considerable strengths, EXPLOSION IN PARIS is passionately written with excellent spicy plotting and pacing to create riveting drama and a superb page-turner. The storyline has an undercurrent of nefarious deeds, secrets and intense wisdom, sidesplitting humor, and incredible memorable characters. This is a powerful work of fiction that is life-changing and spellbinding and it touched me deep within my soul. Rediscover joy and affirm your real worth as you live vicariously through Ang Among many considerable strengths, EXPLOSION IN PARIS is passionately written with excellent spicy plotting and pacing to create riveting drama and a superb page-turner. The storyline has an undercurrent of nefarious deeds, secrets and intense wisdom, sidesplitting humor, and incredible memorable characters. This is a powerful work of fiction that is life-changing and spellbinding and it touched me deep within my soul. Rediscover joy and affirm your real worth as you live vicariously through Angela\u2019s heartache, survival, and transformation. Learn to celebrate your life and find your way clear to search out the relationships and a life of significance. Full of warmth and wisdom this book inspires us to let go of the illusions, learn from the lessons life has taught us and begin again with a renewed sense of humility and compassion. This is scrumptious and a whopping piece of entertainment that you won\u2019t easily forget. Hang onto your seat! You are in for a ride! ...more Explosion in Paris is one of those books that stretches your mind just a little bit further, makes you take a look at the world around you, and forces you to form a parallel between yourself and the profound characters within. It's the type of story that makes you feel clear-headed and think more positively. This book revolves around the choices made based on a truth within oneself even when those choices lead down a most difficult and challenging path. The repression of Angela's mind that Mitch Explosion in Paris is one of those books that stretches your mind just a little bit further, makes you take a look at the world around you, and forces you to form a parallel between yourself and the profound characters within. It's the type of story that makes you feel clear-headed and think more positively. This book revolves around the choices made based on a truth within oneself even when those choices lead down a most difficult and challenging path. The repression of Angela's mind that Mitch seemed so bent on would never work. Human nature must prevail. Angela was strong with a hint of vulnerability, determined but unsure of herself, at first. She struggled with the unrelenting reality of her true self with the person she was always told to be and was expected to be. She feared her inability to be free, an option which became less and less realistic as she discovered who she really was and, in the end, she had to make an even more difficult choice between death and freedom. Explosion in Paris is about choices and the difficulty the wrong person in your life places on the uniqueness of the human spirit. In his greed, selfishness and lust for power, Mitch\u2019s attempt to lock Angela and then Courtney into specific boxes to his specifications was an endeavor to control them, to weed out individuality. The characters are amazing! I love their wit, honesty, their selflessness, their courage. They take risks for things and people they care about----Then, there is Mitch. I\u2019m afraid he is in a category all by himself. The environment and physical struggles that Angela goes through are second to the emotional transformation that she makes. I totally fell in love with her and was rooting for her the whole way through. Ross was absolutely swoon-worthy and just what Angela needed to \u201cwant\u201d to start living her life again. I loved Courtney too. She had immense depth and knew who she was and did not care what anyone else thought and refused to allow Mitch to manipulate her. One of the things that I love the most about this book is that I was so invested in the other characters of the story as well as the main protagonists. This novel also offers the riches of both the senses and a curious mind; as sensuous and suspense-filled as it is inviting and informative. Eye-popping scenes seduce the reader with old world delights, an added bonus of giving some insight into rural French life. I often found myself smiling at phrases or endings of chapters out of sheer pleasure. The author\u2019s writing style, her breathtaking portrait of the heartland of France, and the way she gave breath to the magnificent characters definitely played a big part in why I loved her novel so much. This book is to be savored little by little like a glass of fine wine. You don\u2019t want to miss one delicious word. ...more The reader will be beguiled by this beautiful and touching novel; at least I was. Off the top, there is no gutter language and no seedy, distasteful scenes. It is elegantly written in good taste, sophisticated, refined conversation, great plot, beautiful love story, exciting storyline, and hail to womanhood! On top of the luxuriously landscaped exotic geography, the characters were engaging and intoxicating as they made choices that shaped their lives and future. This is both a heartwarming and The reader will be beguiled by this beautiful and touching novel; at least I was. Off the top, there is no gutter language and no seedy, distasteful scenes. It is elegantly written in good taste, sophisticated, refined conversation, great plot, beautiful love story, exciting storyline, and hail to womanhood! On top of the luxuriously landscaped exotic geography, the characters were engaging and intoxicating as they made choices that shaped their lives and future. This is both a heartwarming and heartbreaking story that hits all the right notes and will ring true with women everywhere. The gripping story unfolds with mounting tension, dread and suspense. The completely unexpected jolting twists, the search for justice and the unforgettable love story make for a compelling anxiety-induced thriller. In the world we live in today, this book brought me comfort. Things were set right, the good triumph and the bad get what they deserve. This book is worthy of gift-giving, all ages, both genders, all genre tastes. It's on my \"gift-giving\" list. ...more Explosion in Paris makes you almost have to make a decision what is worth changing and what is worth keeping in your life as you scan the pages. The plot is intriguing and is written with a comical and witty spirit. This is an exciting drama of drop-your-jaw triumph in the most violent conditions. It is about hope, loss and reinvention that is deeply touching and blissfully romantic. My heart ached for the women in Mitch\u2019s life. The dialog, full of banter and angst and a sense of humor was fun t Explosion in Paris makes you almost have to make a decision what is worth changing and what is worth keeping in your life as you scan the pages. The plot is intriguing and is written with a comical and witty spirit. This is an exciting drama of drop-your-jaw triumph in the most violent conditions. It is about hope, loss and reinvention that is deeply touching and blissfully romantic. My heart ached for the women in Mitch\u2019s life. The dialog, full of banter and angst and a sense of humor was fun to read. This was an absolutely delightful and entertaining read. I am shocked by the range of reviews for what I consider one of my favorite books. I give this book five huge stars. ...more This book was a great read! It took me a short while to be drawn in so what ever you do, do not stop reading if at first it does not grab you. Believe me you have surprises in store for you. The rest of my life was put on hold until I finished it. Many developments threw me for a loop, as others I predicted. At the center of this story is Ross Stafford. The character of Ross Stafford could be considered a cookie cutter character, only because he seems just too perfect, too wonderful, just tooooo of everything that makes e It took me a short while to be drawn in so what ever you do, do not stop reading if at first it does not grab you. Believe me you have surprises in store for you. The rest of my life was put on hold until I finished it. Many developments threw me for a loop, as others I predicted. At the center of this story is Ross Stafford. The character of Ross Stafford could be considered a cookie cutter character, only because he seems just too perfect, too wonderful, just tooooo of everything that makes every woman\u2019s husband pale in comparison. I have to say, he is one of the most vividly drawn characters that I can recall. He's very direct, intelligent, never the least bit lewd, and has an underlying sweetness to him that makes him an irresistible and very soulful character \u2026. and he is also downright sexy. Question: How did Angela survive for so long in the ocean with no flotation device and her blood must have attracted blood thirsty critters and then there is hypothermia and shock. But, it HAS been done many times over in history. It certainly makes a good story! I could not put it down. The women were strong and positive role models. The characters trade verbal spars that could pass as punching fists. The immoveable object, (Mitch), meets a force to be reckoned with. It could not have been done better. The story is absolutely gripping and very suspenseful. It is in my list of top 10 books. I absolutely LOVED it. ...more Explosion in Paris Reviewed by Tess My latest must-read book that I'll be touting to all my friends and family is Explosion in Paris, a charming escape from reality, also suspenseful. Without question, there is a lot to like about this book. We hardly notice how much we are being taught. This is a hopeful and moving story with sympathetic and strong characters. It is a tale of new love brightening the dark aftermath of a wounded heart and finding refuge in a self-made Utopia. It is about a journey Explosion in Paris Reviewed by Tess My latest must-read book that I'll be touting to all my friends and family is Explosion in Paris, a charming escape from reality, also suspenseful. Without question, there is a lot to like about this book. We hardly notice how much we are being taught. This is a hopeful and moving story with sympathetic and strong characters. It is a tale of new love brightening the dark aftermath of a wounded heart and finding refuge in a self-made Utopia. It is about a journey, a story with so many sides, so many feelings and emotions. It is about dignity and the right to be who you are, not what someone else dictates. It took my breath away in places. The conversations were funny, witty and intriguing, some frightening. The \"moments\" revealed much, deep heartache and raw vulnerability to the slow and steady and delicious smoldering of the heart. The writing style is eloquent, graceful, vivid and beautiful. There are many mysterious nuances and enough surprises for even the most jaded of readers written into the story. I loved the world this book portrayed and I wish I could live in it! It will have an honorary place on my bookshelf. Looking forward to reading more by this author. ...more The description of this book was more than enough to get me to order it, and I was not disappointed. When I read so much glowing praise for this book, I was a bit skeptical but curious. I was worried that I\u2019d be disappointed as has happened so many times before. Well, after just two days and a sleepless night, neglecting my life\u2019s habits, I have to agree, this book is really seriously good. I was pulled into the story from the beginning, an engaging premise and a promising first few chapters as The description of this book was more than enough to get me to order it, and I was not disappointed. When I read so much glowing praise for this book, I was a bit skeptical but curious. I was worried that I\u2019d be disappointed as has happened so many times before. Well, after just two days and a sleepless night, neglecting my life\u2019s habits, I have to agree, this book is really seriously good. I was pulled into the story from the beginning, an engaging premise and a promising first few chapters as the dread mounted. It resonated with me to such a deep degree. A few minor hiccups that could possibly be misread or misconstrued as hard to believe pretty much go unnoticed as the excitement of the hopeful storyline takes precedence. A number of places kept my pulse pounding and nerves supersensitive but all in all it was compelling and hypnotic and hit every note. This is an awesome book about a young woman learning to follow her heart after having lost her sense of self. Everything about the story was exciting to me. The details of every episode throughout the book made this a definite page-turner and the last page left me with a huge sigh. Wow! I wanted to be there. ...more I was swept away by this exciting and poignant story. This is a box of tissue read. EXPLOSION IN PARIS is heartbreaking in more ways than one, but the end results will warm your heart. It\u2019s amazing how one man can be so heartless to Angela, her own husband, while another man can come along to pick up the pieces, and feel blessed just being able to do so. This remarkable novel explores an emotional journey of a woman who found herself lost within her own life and at the bottom of the barrel. It\u2019s I was swept away by this exciting and poignant story. This is a box of tissue read. EXPLOSION IN PARIS is heartbreaking in more ways than one, but the end results will warm your heart. It\u2019s amazing how one man can be so heartless to Angela, her own husband, while another man can come along to pick up the pieces, and feel blessed just being able to do so. This remarkable novel explores an emotional journey of a woman who found herself lost within her own life and at the bottom of the barrel. It\u2019s rich in detail with courageous and believable characters who manage to overcome the unbelievable obstacles in life through the strength of love and the beauty of hope. I fell in love with this book as it touched my heart. I couldn\u2019t turn the pages fast enough to find out what happened next and yet hated to see my time with these wonderful characters come to an end. One good thing about a book is that you can read it again. ...more My first book tears for 2012 were shed for Courtney. \u201cJulia Robert\u2019s SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY meets Cary Grant\u2019s AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER.\u201d is the apt review gracing the front cover of this book. The last words, \u201cWhat took you so long?\u201d were magic! The tears flowed again, this time for Angela. There were endless hints and exciting turns and interesting factors that kept me energized throughout this beautiful storyline. No disappointment here! This is definite movie material, one I would watch again My first book tears for 2012 were shed for Courtney. \u201cJulia Robert\u2019s SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY meets Cary Grant\u2019s AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER.\u201d is the apt review gracing the front cover of this book. The last words, \u201cWhat took you so long?\u201d were magic! The tears flowed again, this time for Angela. There were endless hints and exciting turns and interesting factors that kept me energized throughout this beautiful storyline. No disappointment here! This is definite movie material, one I would watch again and again. ...more Wonderful and exciting! What a beautiful book this is. It is smart and stylish and paced well and has a great plot. It is a nail-biter and a first rate thriller. You will not be disappointed. An Awesome Suspense Thriller, but also a love story\u2026the kind of grab-a-reader-by-the-shoulders suspense that demands to be gulped down as quickly as possible. Great Read! This novel has all the bells and whistles that a good mystery thriller needs to captivate the reader. The plot kept me guessing with twists and turns I didn't expect. The pace didn't let up until it finished. I whipped through the pages finding myself laughing out loud on more than a few occasions\u2026\u2026\u2026. great characters, varied an An Awesome Suspense Thriller, but also a love story\u2026the kind of grab-a-reader-by-the-shoulders suspense that demands to be gulped down as quickly as possible. Great Read! This novel has all the bells and whistles that a good mystery thriller needs to captivate the reader. The plot kept me guessing with twists and turns I didn't expect. The pace didn't let up until it finished. I whipped through the pages finding myself laughing out loud on more than a few occasions\u2026\u2026\u2026. great characters, varied and colorful, three-dimensional, likable, understandable, despicable, and everything imaginable in between. The suspense draws you in and takes you on an adventure. The romance is secondary to the suspense. Still, even though I prefer a stronger romance or at least more of it, it still kept me hooked and I had to know how the book ended. I was completely entertained and was completely involved. The book weaves some vicious webs\u2026\u2026\u2026. sexual tension, plenty of fight for life violence and determination. The bad guys are bad but enough background provided to get a feel for why they are bad. Mitch is the quintessential bad guy. The good guys are just as complex and so are their feelings and actions. Ross\u2019s impact on Angela was, for me, the most telling emotion in the book. Some characters are a little exaggerated, but the point gets across very well and really inspired me. This book does not run out of plot or force an ending that is neither interesting nor plausible, as many I have read in the past. Will the truth really set her free, or will it bind her even more? The events are fast-paced and exhilarating at times. The ending is perfect. The love scenes are believable and passionate, but not pornographic. The storyline has great style and it is nicely written. The characters are believable and unforgettable, and the intense suspense is worth the ride. RATING: FIVE STARS ~ A+ ~ ...more<---C>Linda Masemore Pirrung</---C>", "Title": "Explosion in Paris"},
