{"Comments": "What's This Book About? From <+++>The Tender Bar</+++> by J. R. Moehringer: \"I hate when people ask what a book is about. People who read for plot, people who suck out the story like the cream filling in an Oreo, should stick to comic strips and soap operas. . . . Every book worth a damn is about emotions and love and death and pain.<---F> It's about words</---F>. It's about a man dealing with life. Okay?\" Okay! Pulling this excerpt from page 335 of this 416 page book,<---M> I feel</---M>, allows me to use the author's own words to de What's This Book About? From <+++>The Tender Bar</+++> by J. R. Moehringer: \"I hate when people ask what a book is about. People who read for plot, people who suck out the story like the cream filling in an Oreo, should stick to comic strips and soap operas. . . . Every book worth a damn is about emotions and love and death and pain. It's about words. It's about a man dealing with life. Okay?\" Okay! Pulling this excerpt from page 335 of this 416 page book, I feel, allows me to use the author's own words to describe this excellent and engrossing reading experience. From page one, I was pulled into the world of J. R. Moeringer and found myself reading his words late into the night because I just didn't want to put it down. It's a compelling, emotional memoir, filled with lots of individual stories, all contributing to the plot that is the author's life. I learned to call him JR--never \"Junior,\" and, along with all of his quirky cast of characters centered primarily around a Manhasset, Long Island bar called \"Publicans,\" experience his life as a boy, his foray into manhood, and the secrets he uncovers regarding the strength of one very good woman, his mother. The book is dedicated to her. It's one of the best written memoirs I've ever read, and a highly entertaining journey. I give The Tender Bar my highest recommendation. ...more Started out fairly well and held my interest until he went to Yale. From that point on, I would read a few sentences from each paragraph and eventually skip pages to just finish the book. Interestingly, the experience is similar to a night that starts pleasantly with a charming storyteller and a few drinks; at first it is enjoyable and the story is interesting, but as the storyteller continues drinking and becomes more and more verbose and self-absorbed, going on and on about people you do not k Started out fairly well and held my interest until he went to Yale. From that point on, I would read a few sentences from each paragraph and eventually skip pages to just finish the book. Interestingly, the experience is similar to a night that starts pleasantly with a charming storyteller and a few drinks; at first it is enjoyable and the story is interesting, but as the storyteller continues drinking and becomes more and more verbose and self-absorbed, going on and on about people you do not know who are fascinating only to storyteller and no one else, your eyes start to glaze over and your mind wanders. Eventually you attempt a graceful exit; unfortunately storyteller, who due to alcohol consumption sees himself as Socrates, continues his angst-ridden rambling, now peppering his story with platitudes, lessons learned and \"deep thoughts\" seemingly penned by Jack Handey. Surprisingly, storylines that should have been delved into deeply are skipped over, as in a family fight that leaves him no longer speaking to his close friend and cousin McGraw; the disappearance of Uncle Charlie (where is he? Dead? Wandering the streets as a homeless person? Abducted by aliens?) The sudden decision to quit drinking (AA? Rehab? No revelations on how he found himself lying in the gutter in a puddle of vomit and urine, and told himself it was time to quit?) The deaths of Grandma and Grandpa in the same year, which precipitated the family fight over the estate--they died of ? This book needs a good editor and a rewrite. ...more Here's the thing. I'm a writer. I'm not a proofreader or an editor. When I read, I read for the pleasure of a good story with memorable, honest (not cardboard) characters. I'm not hard on other writers' work, unless they really disappoint me. An occasional repeat of an expression, a dropped comma, a misused semicolon -- none of these bother me unless they stop the read cold, and only then, if I can't pick it up again. It happens. I'm not a complete masochist, but I have noticed that most of the Here's the thing. I'm a writer. I'm not a proofreader or an editor. When I read, I read for the pleasure of a good story with memorable, honest (not cardboard) characters. I'm not hard on other writers' work, unless they really disappoint me. An occasional repeat of an expression, a dropped comma, a misused semicolon -- none of these bother me unless they stop the read cold, and only then, if I can't pick it up again. It happens. I'm not a complete masochist, but I have noticed that most of the books in that pile come from big publishing houses and \"blockbuster\" writers with hugely successful series. I have only once read an Indie Novel that I couldn't finish. Indie Authors create and craft their stories outside of the editorial and sales pressures that mold much of what fills the Best Holiday Books lists. For me, a spark of originality and a pleasing way with words goes a long way. ...more I really loved The Tender Bar! Any book that can sweep you into a story and its beautifully rendered characters (all the more beautiful, poignant, and powerful because they are real) is worthy of recognition, and I found this memoir to be fascinating and enormously moving. It was also interesting from its snapshot of a slice of American and local history: Manhasset, Long Island, in the 70s and 80s and into the early 21st century. The author, being raised by his mother in her father's dysfunction I really loved The Tender Bar! Any book that can sweep you into a story and its beautifully rendered characters (all the more beautiful, poignant, and powerful because they are real) is worthy of recognition, and I found this memoir to be fascinating and enormously moving. It was also interesting from its snapshot of a slice of American and local history: Manhasset, Long Island, in the 70s and 80s and into the early 21st century. The author, being raised by his mother in her father's dysfunctional home, lived right down the street from the Publicans bar where his uncle worked and where the bar patrons became the author's family. Telling the story cannot do it justice. Moehringer's (and his mother's) run of bad luck and the consequences of repeated poor judgment could be too dark and depressing if it weren't for his uncanny sense of humor, powers of observation, and willingness to expose himself, warts and all, to the reader. Yes, there were times you wanted to kick him in the seat of the pants, but it appears he finally found his own footing. My only quibble is that after a wonderfully rich telling of his childhood and early adulthood, there is a conspicuous ten-year gap as the story jumps abruptly from his first job as a journalist and what appears to be a downward slide towards alcoholism to the end of the book where he has clearly stopped drinking, has become a recognized journalist, and finally appears to have gained a healthy perspective on his past. The scenes in the bar and the many conversations, over many years, between Moehringer and the bar's zany, wonderful patrons were filled with laugh-out-loud hilarity, philosophical depth, fascinating bondings and break-ups, and unspoken rules and behaviors that engendered fierce loyalty and unexpected tenderness. The intersection of Moehringer's personal story with the events of 9-11 and its impact on the characters and the community were especially moving. ...more Just read for book club. Its an easy read. I guess I was interested in his life and the history on Long Island makes it easy to identify with. I just feel like I have been down this road before with a memoir. Dysfunctional family, overcoming it all and going to Yale, etc..etc...and does he whine about it. He never stops! He continues to show the people in his life addicted to alcohol, drugs, and gambling in a postive light - even when sometimes the outcome of such a life is horrible- he still ho Just read for book club. Its an easy read. I guess I was interested in his life and the history on Long Island makes it easy to identify with. I just feel like I have been down this road before with a memoir. Dysfunctional family, overcoming it all and going to Yale, etc..etc...and does he whine about it. He never stops! He continues to show the people in his life addicted to alcohol, drugs, and gambling in a postive light - even when sometimes the outcome of such a life is horrible- he still holds them up on some kind of pedestal. I thought often while reading it - that he should have read more Charles Bukowski for a dose of what bar flies are really like - and maybe hung around some men his own age a bit more often instead of a bunch of old losers. Jeez - JR - go out in city once in awhile while you were working there instead of rushing back to a hole in the wall every night - and maybe you wont be so depressed... ...more Jeesh. I picked this up for my husband's birthday and decided to read it myself. I was so excited. I got it from a local book store where one of the book clerks wrote an amazing review. I thought it was going to be about bar culture and the magical and redemptive qualities that can be found in your local bar/pub. I was wrong. It's mostly a memoir of Moehinger's boyhood and college days at Yale. The lack of male role models is a constant and boring theme that runs throughout the book. The love of Jeesh. I picked this up for my husband's birthday and decided to read it myself. I was so excited. I got it from a local book store where one of the book clerks wrote an amazing review. I thought it was going to be about bar culture and the magical and redemptive qualities that can be found in your local bar/pub. I was wrong. It's mostly a memoir of Moehinger's boyhood and college days at Yale. The lack of male role models is a constant and boring theme that runs throughout the book. The love of his mother...how he wants to care for her....yadda yadda. I found myself not caring after a while. Which is a shame, really, because you get the feeling that Moehinger is a good guy with an interesting story to tell. But I could not help but feel, when reading this, that I was watching one, long, maybe more seedy epidsode of The Wonder Years. NYTimes notable book and bestseller for those of you who care. ...more Oh, the damage an absent father can do. No-show, no-care dads practice a different brand of abuse than fathers who use their fists, but the distinction is lost on the little boy waiting curbside for a dad who isn\u2019t coming. Given a choice, the boy might even opt for corporal punishment over icy indifference. <---A>J.R. Moehringer</---A> captures the lives of many such boys in his poignant memoir, \u201cThe Tender Bar.\u201d Moehringer\u2019s radio personality dad was MIA so often, he came to think of his dad as \u201cThe Voice,\u201d Oh, the damage an absent father can do. No-show, no-care dads practice a different brand of abuse than fathers who use their fists, but the distinction is lost on the little boy waiting curbside for a dad who isn\u2019t coming. Given a choice, the boy might even opt for corporal punishment over icy indifference. <---C>J.R. Moehringer</---C> captures the lives of many such boys in his poignant memoir, \u201cThe Tender Bar.\u201d Moehringer\u2019s radio personality dad was MIA so often, he came to think of his dad as \u201cThe Voice,\u201d and kept a radio close in case his father happened to be on the air. Young Moehringer\u2019s longing for a stronger connection came coupled with enormous, un-childlike stress to ease the burden on his hard-working mom. The selfishness and irresponsibility required to pretend a son or daughter doesn\u2019t exist must be unimaginable to most parents. Indeed, the most fearsome thought any parent can conjure is losing a child, and having to live on knowing that the joyous march toward all of life\u2019s markers \u2013graduations, marriages, grandchildren and the rest \u2013 has abruptly ended. Yet Moehringer\u2019s father chose to abandon his wife and son, failing to provide moral or financial support. A boy needs a dad or something close. So Moehringer wandered into the nearby neighborhood bar \u2013 the \u201cTender Bar\u201d - and found his surrogates, a wonderful collection of colorful, irreverent, hard-drinking, fast-talking philosophers who took him to the beach and taught him much of what he needed to learn. An interesting sidebar is that when tennis star Andre Agassi read this book, he knew Moehringer was the one to write his own life story. Read \u201cOpen,\u201d and you\u2019ll see that Agassi, too, had a dad who was never up for father of the year. Tender Bar is not a depressing read. Parts are sad, parts are laugh-aloud funny. Think of it as a survival story, and an inspiring one at that. Moehringer writes as you would imagine him talking to you in his Long Island saloon over a few beers. Like Agassi, I\u2019m giving him all five stars. ...more Two friends of mine claimed this was their favorite book, which is probably the only reason why I made myself finish this long, whining memoir. JR Moehringer starts off with a nice premise: He wants to write about the Long Island bar he grew up in, and the wild cast of characters at the bar who filled in for his absent, dead-beat dad. Moehringer's got some funny stories, and he's pretty good at capturing the moods of the bar and describing the people in his life. But at the end of the book, all Two friends of mine claimed this was their favorite book, which is probably the only reason why I made myself finish this long, whining memoir. JR Moehringer starts off with a nice premise: He wants to write about the Long Island bar he grew up in, and the wild cast of characters at the bar who filled in for his absent, dead-beat dad. Moehringer's got some funny stories, and he's pretty good at capturing the moods of the bar and describing the people in his life. But at the end of the book, all I could think was, \"Well, so what?\" There was no climax, no plot twist, and Moehringer whined too much about insignificant things to make me ever care what happened to him. It was also troubling to me that he idolized the men at the bar -- a bunch of loud drunks with shady pasts and unclear futures -- while looking with disdain on everyone else. For example, his hardworking mother sacrificed everything for him, but he only pitied her and ignored her. Yet the men had earned his true respect and reverence. For what? Being men? Drinking and gambling and laughing all day? That was very unclear to me. It seemed that their influence did more harm than good on Moehringer, since it was only once he moved clear across the country and quit drinking that he could actually do something positive with his life. I think the worst part of this book is that I just didn't believe him. On nearly every page there was something that gave me pause, some small detail that just didn't seem right, some ridiculous hyperbole. Moehringer originally began this book as a novel instead of a memoir. Perhaps he should have stuck with his first idea. ...more This is an incredibly honest book by an incredibly good story teller. JR grew up with an absent father and ended up with many \"fathers\", and one enormously strong and dedicated mother. I, too, grew up with an absent father and an enormously strong and dedicated mother so I could relate to much of his emotional upheaval at times. My heart was breaking when his father didn't show up after telling him he would be there to take him to a baseball game. During my reading of this book, I also saw a hal This is an incredibly honest book by an incredibly good story teller. JR grew up with an absent father and ended up with many \"fathers\", and one enormously strong and dedicated mother. I, too, grew up with an absent father and an enormously strong and dedicated mother so I could relate to much of his emotional upheaval at times. My heart was breaking when his father didn't show up after telling him he would be there to take him to a baseball game. During my reading of this book, I also saw a half-hour interview with him on the internet and I enjoyed that as much as the book. He was articulate, charming, forthright, well-spoken, and his voice was as pleasant as he describes his father's. My one wish for this book would have been PICTURES!! I even scoured the web looking for pictures of his Publican \"fathers\" (Uncle Charlie, Bob the Cop, Joey D, Cager, Smelly, FmeBabe, Colt, Bobo, Steve, Fast Eddy, General Grant), McGraw, Grandma and Grandpa, Aunt Ruth and especially Dorothy, his mother. He dedicated his book to his mother - wouldn't it have been great to see that wonderful woman's picture?! This is a book I won't soon forget! I read this review that I found so insightful, from someone called \"Pomperation\" on June 11, 2008: \"The less than 5 star reviewers are not understanding this story. JR's memoir is not about a bar, not about avoiding a life of achoholism, not about whining over misfortune, and not about overcomming childhood challenges. The real story here is sharing boldly and courageously what it is like to grow up fatherless. JR speaks for all of us men who grew up without fathers and his medium is great storytelling. While \"growing up\" we really were always searching for the right templates for manhood. We would grab ahold of anyone who paid attention! That could be good and that could be bad, but fortunatly for our author, the men at the bar were ultimately a good influence, not all of them as career path role models, but certainly as \"man models\" and that is what was needed. It is impossible (no criticism) for individuals who grew up with a father to empathize. This is not whining, it is just plain being honest and sharing what it is like. JR's memoir resonates with all of us \"fatherless boys\" and he must be reviewed from that perspective. For those of you who would like to know what goes through our minds and our orientation to the world, this is great primer/story. BRAVO JR.\" ...more While reading, I wrote this: Working on it. Mom's book club. Came in a box with Valentine's Day goodies, including: - A heart-shaped potholder - Cups with hearts on them - Candy hearts - A heart-shaped PEZ dispenser - Pink footie socks - 3 or maybe 4 V-Day cards, they keep turning up in odd places, like wedged into The Tender Bar . - Pink rubber duckies with hearts on them - My camera battery charger A good story. A bicentennial sofa. A little deliberate, but I'm still going. After reading, I write this: It While reading, I wrote this: Working on it. Mom's book club. Came in a box with Valentine's Day goodies, including: - A heart-shaped potholder - Cups with hearts on them - Candy hearts - A heart-shaped PEZ dispenser - Pink footie socks - 3 or maybe 4 V-Day cards, they keep turning up in odd places, like wedged into The Tender Bar . - Pink rubber duckies with hearts on them - My camera battery charger A good story. A bicentennial sofa. A little deliberate, but I'm still going. After reading, I write this: It got old fast. Rich girls, broken hearts, alcoholism, SNOOZE. My Mom's hairdresser didn't even like it. ...more John Joseph Moehringer (born 1964) grew up in Manhasset, New York. He is a graduate of Yale and used to work at New York Times and won the Pulitzer Award for Feature Writing in 2000. This memoir, The Tender Bar is the recollection of his childhood up to his early adulthood. Published in 2005, when Andre Agassi read this book, he asked Moehringer to collaborate with him the writing of his own memoir, Open published last year, 2009. You must be seeing that book prominently displayed in your bookst John Joseph Moehringer (born 1964) grew up in Manhasset, New York. He is a graduate of Yale and used to work at New York Times and won the Pulitzer Award for Feature Writing in 2000. This memoir, The Tender Bar is the recollection of his childhood up to his early adulthood. Published in 2005, when Andre Agassi read this book, he asked Moehringer to collaborate with him the writing of his own memoir, Open published last year, 2009. You must be seeing that book prominently displayed in your bookstore tours nowadays. J. R. Moehringer has been raised almost singlehandedly by his mother. His father is a radio host that is called \"The Voice.\" When he meets his father at the age of 11, he cannot believe that he is not just a voice but a normal human being. Her mother tries hard to support the two of them and at some point has to live in Arizona to have 2 jobs and leave J.R. in her father's dilapidated house in Long Island. In Manhasset, which I reckon is in that island (excuse me but I am not an American), there is a pub formerly known as Dickens and is now known as Publicans . That pub, frequented by men who of course like to drink beer, talk, fight, etc., is where the young J.R. gets to bond with men who provided him the father figure as his father is just a voice in the radio. The book is an easy read. It started very interesting I thought I would give it a 5-star. However, after the he graduated from Yale, the narration practically became uninteresting (or maybe I could not relate to men who frequent pubs as I am not fond of drinking). Maybe Moehringer knew it as he wrote a long Epilogue telling the story of what was the impact of the Sept 11 attack to him, his mother (to whom the book is dedicated) and people in Manhasset. The Epilogue is too long so it gives me an impression of just an added dish (not a dessert) to make the book more palatable. There was this one funny part that made me laugh out loud. J.R. and his mother are so poor the mother has to buy furnitures at installment basis. One day she shouts to J.R. who is lying on the sofa \"Take care of our Louis XIV furniture. If we don't pay on the 14th, Louis will come here and get them back.\" Of course, Louis XIV was the king of France and the husband of Marie Antoinette. My favorite parts are those related to the books that shaped his interest in literature. As a young boy with no regular playmates, he finds comfort in Rudyard Kipling's Jungle Book . His first job is in a bookstore being manned by two Yale graduates who do not do anything but read and read since the bookstore has not too many customers. The two teach J.R. so many things from books (his first there was John Cheever's The Stories of John Cheever ), music, dressing up, etc. and support the idea of fulfilling J.R.'s dream of studying at Yale. I like that part as it shows that there are people - parents and others - that influence young minds and help shape them to who they become in the future. My suggestion to future readers. Read up to his life at Yale and skim the pages and go straight to the Epilogue. ...more i found this to be a memoir with a lot of heart but little literary value. what moehringer does very well is create a vivid atmosphere, using dialogue in particular to paint a picture that you can easily imagine as if you were in the room with him. i read in a separate review that the most interesting thing about the author is the people he knows - and it's true, the characters in this book are very colorful and tend to overshadow moehringer's self-absorbed drama. another reason to enjoy the boo i found this to be a memoir with a lot of heart but little literary value. what moehringer does very well is create a vivid atmosphere, using dialogue in particular to paint a picture that you can easily imagine as if you were in the room with him. i read in a separate review that the most interesting thing about the author is the people he knows - and it's true, the characters in this book are very colorful and tend to overshadow moehringer's self-absorbed drama. another reason to enjoy the book was the pure feel-good-ness of the story: the author faces obstacles (daddy issues, unrequited love, alcoholism, bad life choices in general), he overcomes them, and you can't help but find yourself cheering for him. you also wish you could be a part of the in-crowd at the bar of the book's title, the place the author returns to at the end of what seems like every day of his young life. however, all memoirs are always pretty hit-or-miss with me because of the structural problems they inevitably pose. if you want to write a story about your life, you need to sift through all the infinite events that you could possibly include in order to come up with a narrative that is thematically coherent. moehringer is only moderately successful at this. i was especially disappointed that he gave such short shrift to his struggles with alcoholism later in life and how he ultimately sobered up. much more time is wasted on cliched descriptions of his first relationship, which we know is obviously going to fall apart. my last criticism has to do with writing style. i'm not entirely sure how moehringer manages to simultaneously sound like he's trying too hard and yet also like his target audience is the dumbed-down drunkards at his cherished bar. one last note: as someone who went to harvard, i'd like to point out that moehringer's repeated descriptions of yale as \"the best school in the country\" are just factually incorrect. :) ...more I really enjoyed this book. I found myself laughing out loud while reading it. The book is basically about his coming of age and most of it takes place at a local pub on Long Island where his uncle was a bartender. I really like his style and how the chapters are like short stories, yet they follow a timeline. I really got to like the author; he reminds me of a straight version of Sedaris or Borroughs. The missing star is mainly a pet peeve I have about the epilogue, which I recommend you skip. I really enjoyed this book. I found myself laughing out loud while reading it. The book is basically about his coming of age and most of it takes place at a local pub on Long Island where his uncle was a bartender. I really like his style and how the chapters are like short stories, yet they follow a timeline. I really got to like the author; he reminds me of a straight version of Sedaris or Borroughs. The missing star is mainly a pet peeve I have about the epilogue, which I recommend you skip. This was recommended to me as well, but curiosity got the better of me. The epilogue is about 5 pages of a heartfelt- yet irrelevant- personal experience regarding 9/11. The rest of the book took place in the 80s. I appreciate that in a book about his life, an author may pick and choose what is important to highlight, but I disagree with the choice to use this particular blurb in his epilogue. For me, its inclusion felt very trite. ...more I found this book by reading Andre Aggasi's memoir, \"Open\", in which he describes how taken he was by \"The Tender Bar\" and how this led to his collaboration with J.R. Moehringer. I was equally engrossed in the book and could hardly put it down over the course of a week or so during which I read the entire thing (which, for me, is 2x-3x my normal turnover rate for a book of comparable length). The book is a wonderful memoir of a tough childhood (J.R. Moehringer grew up without a father in his lif I found this book by reading Andre Aggasi's memoir, \"Open\", in which he describes how taken he was by \"The Tender Bar\" and how this led to his collaboration with J.R. Moehringer. I was equally engrossed in the book and could hardly put it down over the course of a week or so during which I read the entire thing (which, for me, is 2x-3x my normal turnover rate for a book of comparable length). The book is a wonderful memoir of a tough childhood (J.R. Moehringer grew up without a father in his life) of a boy with some very obvious intellectual gifts. Despite these gifts, the story is really one of a boy trying to find his identity and discover what it means to be a man. The chapters in which Moehringer describes his first romances, first with a girl named Lana and then with his real heartbreak, Sydney, are some of the best writing on teenage lust and falling in love that I have encountered. Moehringer beautifully captures the feeling of falling in love with a beautiful girl, and then the devastating heartache when the romance comes to an end. The memoir is part comedy, as Moehringer has an exceptional sense of humor, and part tragedy, as we are taken through Moehringer's struggles, disappointments and let downs that we can all relate to. We also see, through Moehringer's friends at Publican's, how sad life can be for those who have given up on it. Moehringer also describes with exceptional clarity his love of books, and the education that he got from a couple of bookstore misanthropes, Bill and Bud, followed by his eventual break by getting acceptance into Yale University. Having read \"Open\", and now \"The Tender Bar\", I am looking forward to reading another Moehringer book should he choose to write one. ...more This book was required reading for a memoir class that I audited last year. I must confess, I\u2019m not a fan of memoirs that are soaked in booz, but I did my usual quick read through to get the story and found that, though appalled at times, I did enjoy the story and cared very much for J R and his mother. The Tender Bar title is a play on words. Growing up in the bar, J R was not coddled, but he was tended to or watched out for by a series of regular bar customers and bar tenders. I think of the f This book was required reading for a memoir class that I audited last year. I must confess, I\u2019m not a fan of memoirs that are soaked in booz, but I did my usual quick read through to get the story and found that, though appalled at times, I did enjoy the story and cared very much for J R and his mother. The Tender Bar title is a play on words. Growing up in the bar, J R was not coddled, but he was tended to or watched out for by a series of regular bar customers and bar tenders. I think of the following passage every time I witness men acting badly. \"Why do those men act so silly?\" I asked my mother. \"They're just-happy.\" \"About what?\" She looked at the men, thinking. \"Beer, sweetheart. They're happy about beer.\" The major themes are loneliness, abandonment, searching for father, coming of age, and words, words, words. Grandpa can\u2019t speak, Uncle Charley never shuts up, and the conversation never ends at Publicans. The Book of Words holds a sacred spot in Publicans and is the source to settle all arguments about word use. Images of the men taking JR and his cousin to the beach will stick in my mind forever.I loved the boy and this book and am so glad that JR has a new book, Sutton, out. I\u2019ve been looking for something from him for a while. Update. The No Rules Book Club of Bradford PA discussed this book on March 23, 2013. It was a lively discussion and all are set on reading Sutton soon. ...more I initially fell in love with this memoir, and for 150 pages could not put it down. This is when Moehringer describes his childhood in a dysfunctional broken-down home in Long Island and his search on the radio air waves for his missing father's voice. He writes hauntingly and convincingly of his childhood anxieties, much of which center on protecting his mother, and his drive to take care of her. He describes his early discovery of the neighborhood bar, where his Uncle Charlie worked, and found I initially fell in love with this memoir, and for 150 pages could not put it down. This is when Moehringer describes his childhood in a dysfunctional broken-down home in Long Island and his search on the radio air waves for his missing father's voice. He writes hauntingly and convincingly of his childhood anxieties, much of which center on protecting his mother, and his drive to take care of her. He describes his early discovery of the neighborhood bar, where his Uncle Charlie worked, and found it supplied the role models (of a sort) and the warmth and comraderie that his home life lacked. Unfortunately, there was also a tremendous amount of alcohol, and it took Moehringer far too long to find how addicted he was to the bar. It was like the security blanket his mother quietly and secretly snipped into a swatch, only Meohringer has no way to wean himself from the bar. He writes about his time at Yale tediously. He was ill-prepared, and nearly flunked out, but doesn't seem to have found himself, or truly grown there. Too much of a focus on puppy love to realize he is coming perilously close to screwing up his best chance at a different life. He then flunks out of the New York Times' erstwhile training program, and stays in his dead-end job as a copy boy far too long. No word how he kicked alcohol, or how he became a Pulitzer-prize winning journalist. He simply arrives at the end of the book and those two things have occurred. By the end, his relationships with those in the bar don't deepen, they simply marinate. And for me, closing the book by coming back to his hometown to see how it was affected by 9/11 gets off track. We want to hear about his catharsis, not the town's. Like some books and drinking nights, this one attempts to cover too much ground. Paring it down would have helped both. ...more Not a bad memoir; not particularly gripping, but very vivid in its way of person-description-by-storytelling. Probably the least \"woe is me, I'm a drunk\" and most interesting \"look how I became a reporter for Times\" book out there. And still, it became rambly. About two-thirds of the way through, I wondered why so many pages remained and what Moehringer could possibly have left to tell me that was so darned important. I hate when the story seems over and the book keeps going. Of course, I claim Not a bad memoir; not particularly gripping, but very vivid in its way of person-description-by-storytelling. Probably the least \"woe is me, I'm a drunk\" and most interesting \"look how I became a reporter for Times\" book out there. And still, it became rambly. About two-thirds of the way through, I wondered why so many pages remained and what Moehringer could possibly have left to tell me that was so darned important. I hate when the story seems over and the book keeps going. Of course, I claim to hate when the story seems UNfinished and the book ends more, but I suppose that's a much better way to end a book--leave the reader wanting. Always a good sign for the author, anyway. I could easily see The Tender Bar becoming a cult classic within reading groups, but it didn't blow me away. What can I say--I'm a tough audience. I'd recommend this one more strongly to males, particularly the intellectual types. It's about male-bonding, after all, and I imagine many of them would relate to the issues Moehringer explores. ...more I read this book years ago but wanted to write a review because of how special the book is for me. The story itself is simple: J.R. grew up in bars, he loved to drink, became a journalist and quit drinking. What's incredible about this book is how detailed Moehringer is, how well he described his friends, how his identity was formed there, the lives that these people led, and how it spiraled out of control for him. It's partly an homage to his bar and the guys there that were his heroes/teachers I read this book years ago but wanted to write a review because of how special the book is for me. The story itself is simple: J.R. grew up in bars, he loved to drink, became a journalist and quit drinking. What's incredible about this book is how detailed Moehringer is, how well he described his friends, how his identity was formed there, the lives that these people led, and how it spiraled out of control for him. It's partly an homage to his bar and the guys there that were his heroes/teachers/confidant, part coming of age story, and part recovery journal. As a man that's passionate about his liquor, I am impressed at how well he captured the importance alcohol had in his life and the meaning it attained for him. I admire how honest he was with his recollections and didn't shrug from details that might be embarrassing for him. Finally, his ability to make me empathize/identify/connect with his work is the goal for a memoir and rare when it happens to such a high degree. ...more 5 stars! My friend Beth wanted me to read this for ages! I still have tears in my eyes at the poignancy of this memoir. I don't think I can write a review of The Tender Bar. I just really liked it and am happy I read it and would tell others to read it too. It is very sad though. It's amazing how well he wrote, using such great descriptive words that you really could almost feel you were right there with him experiencing it all. I'd recommend it! One must have a \u201cplace\u201d in order to be. Without a place to stand, one cannot perceive the idea of belonging. For many, if not most, of us spend a great deal of our \u201cgrowing up\u201d years sorting out just where that \u201cplace\u201d is. This mythical location that is more real than the keys of this computer, is made up of: physical location, culture, belief, what is ingested, speech, language and a multitude of other factors that are as imperceptible as the \u201cdaily recommended allowance\u201d of needed vitamins and One must have a \u201cplace\u201d in order to be. Without a place to stand, one cannot perceive the idea of belonging. For many, if not most, of us spend a great deal of our \u201cgrowing up\u201d years sorting out just where that \u201cplace\u201d is. This mythical location that is more real than the keys of this computer, is made up of: physical location, culture, belief, what is ingested, speech, language and a multitude of other factors that are as imperceptible as the \u201cdaily recommended allowance\u201d of needed vitamins and minerals in one\u2019s diet and are just as vital. Not least in this list of needs is our heritage; those people from whom we originate not only give us genes but also are the \u201cground zero\u201d from which we begin this \u201cplace\u201d journey. If part of that heritage is absent (i.e., if one parent is missing) then the work of finding one\u2019s place is made exponentially more difficult. This struggle is a major part of what makes this memoir such a page turner. Mr. Moehringer gives voice to the common journey of finding one\u2019s place, on one\u2019s terms, while learning to deal with those things that are missing from one\u2019s personal \u201cneed\u2019s list.\u201d J. R. Moehringer, a Pulitzer Prize winner (for feature writing) was reared by a single mother, in her parents\u2019 house, down the street from a well-known bar. Each of those parts is a vital key to the story spun by Mr. Moehringer. His mother married young to a man of amazing vocal talents and volatile temperament. She left him after the last time he tried to kill her. The only place she had to go, given financial constraints, was to return to her childhood home, where a seemingly vast number of other family members resided. This location was ruled by his grandfather, an insurance salesman who, \u201conce he amassed enough money to generate a dependable income for the rest of his life, he quit,\u201d (p. 30) he quit caring for himself, his house or his family. His Uncle Charlie tended bar at \u201cDickens,\u201d which later became \u201cPublicans,\u201d and the men he met there became those from whom he learned about life, love, drinking, revenge, forgiveness; where he gained support, guidance, reproof, a sense of the world and was celebrated for the sole reason that he was alive. It is little wonder that this watering hole became so important to the author. It supplied him with a \u201cground zero,\u201d from which he could begin defining that ethereal thing called the Self. Wherever he went - Arizona (where his mother relocated), Yale (where he went to college), The New York Times (where he worked for four years as a copy boy) - his heart remained at home and to which he immediately returned - this tavern. It was a shelter from a broken heart, missed promotions, difficult family members and the demands of growing up. It was all these things until it pushed him out into the world, as any good parent is to do. But this could only happen after he was forced to see himself as he was, not what he was \u201csupposed\u201d to be. This is a funny, heartbreaking, engrossing book. The majority of its push comes from the memories of a bar and its patrons in Manhasset, New York and the language is reflective thereof. It is a story of growing up, and Mr. Moehringer shields the reader from none of the milestones in that journey, regardless of what light they shed upon him. It is a book about a boy finding his calling and becoming a man. It is a revelation of this man gaining the understanding that, \u201c(God) loves a good story. And He doesn\u2019t give a damn about words. Words are the curtain we\u2019ve hung between Him and our true selves\u201d (p. 202). It is the report of an adult who realizes that \u201cIt takes just as many men to build a sturdy man, . . . , as it does to build a tower\u201d (p. 203). Ultimately, it is the celebration of an individual who has been freed from the prison he had designed for himself, \u201cIn the time it took a man to fall down, Publicans had devolved from a sanctuary to a prison, as sanctuaries so often do\u201d (p.342). This book is powerful because is speaks so eloquently of Mr. Moehringer\u2019s truth. I hope to have the chance to buy Mr. Moehringer a coke someday. He feels like a friend. ...more \"I used to say I'd found in Steve's bar the fathers I needed, but this wasn't quite right. At some point the bar itself became my father, its dozens of men melding me into one enormous male eye looking over my shoulder, providing that needed alternative to my mother, that Y chromosome to her X\".--JR Moehringer, pg. 9 of prologue I keep saying this memoir reminded me of an American version of Frank McCourt's \"Angela's Ashes\". However, it's the essence more than the actual details that brings me \"I used to say I'd found in Steve's bar the fathers I needed, but this wasn't quite right. At some point the bar itself became my father, its dozens of men melding me into one enormous male eye looking over my shoulder, providing that needed alternative to my mother, that Y chromosome to her X\".--JR Moehringer, pg. 9 of prologue I keep saying this memoir reminded me of an American version of Frank McCourt's \"Angela's Ashes\". However, it's the essence more than the actual details that brings me to say that. It's that unremitting search for identity from a young boy's eyes, along with the piercing earnestness of that all consuming journey as they come of age in a world where early on, the cards are stacked against them. Both authors have this almost magical ability to shapeshift the reader into their lives, laughing and crying beside them. JR Moehringer wrote a book that not only gives tribute to 'the bar that raised him' but to the mother that sacrificed much of her own life for the sake of her son's. I'd never understood the lure of 'the bar' and the regulars that go there, other than possibly in the tv sitcom \"Cheers\".JR not only gave me an inside look at both the glory and tragedy of his hometown's bar but humanized it in such a way that I'll never look at a bar or its customers in the same way again. The regulars become family no matter how disparate. Wherein I once thought that people who went to a bar every day were hard core alcoholics, I now stand corrected for my harsh judgements. Granted, alcoholism is prevalent but that's only a small part. The local bar becomes a place where men and women go to bare their hearts, let down their daily facades, and stave off loneliness. More than anything though, JR's memoir has heart--like the Red Sox despite their repeated losses. You can't stop rooting for him, even when it looks like there's nothing left.It's sometimes hilarious, other times heart breaking but consistently honest in it's unflinching look at the imperfections of being human. It's the Velveteen Rabbit who happens to go to a bar everyday. No matter what, it's a love story to humanity. That's my hokey phrase of the day and I blame it on this book. Read it and you'll see why it's so easy to be this sentimental. ...more Masterful and wonderful to read. Like a good scotch, The Tender Bar should not be rushed through and instead, savored slowly and thoroughly. Also like scotch, it took me a couple of exposures to The Tender Bar before I started liking it. The first exposure was when my husband and I were researching bars we should visit while in Tokyo. During my googling, I found a few mentions of this book but read a blurb about it and thought it sounded boring, so I let it slip my mind. In Tokyo, we visited an e Masterful and wonderful to read. Like a good scotch, The Tender Bar should not be rushed through and instead, savored slowly and thoroughly. Also like scotch, it took me a couple of exposures to The Tender Bar before I started liking it. The first exposure was when my husband and I were researching bars we should visit while in Tokyo. During my googling, I found a few mentions of this book but read a blurb about it and thought it sounded boring, so I let it slip my mind. In Tokyo, we visited an eponymous bar on the fifth floor of an anonymous looking office building. (Coincidentally, the master bartender who works at this bar shares the same first-letter, lastname combination as a former colleague at Goodreads.) At this bar I had one of the most expertly shaken drinks of my life. All subsequent drinks would be compared to the ones I consumed at the Tender Bar. My second exposure was after I had read The Great Gatsby for the first time since highschool. The book that I only thought of as a requirement during my first reading revealed its subtleties and sad themes during my second reading. After finishing the book, I wanted more books like it and consulted some reading lists online for comparable books. The Tender Bar was mentioned and I added it to my to-read list. It wasn\u2019t till a year later, when someone on a gaming forum mentioned the book, that I finally got around to reading it. Although I categorized the book as a bildungsroman, it\u2019s less of a coming of age as it is a coming to terms book. Moehringer crafts a Dickensian (I hope you like that word because it comes up more than a handful of times in the book) tale about the men at a bar. Like life, it\u2019s not any one story or experience or even one person at the bar that changes the boy, but a culmination of events and disappointments that pushes him into being the type of man that makes his mother proud. The Tender Bar is the type of novel I\u2019d want to read by the fire with a comforting glass of scotch. It\u2019s heartbreaking at times, but there\u2019s a certain hopeful undercurrent to the writing. Even in the sections where Moehringer is an adult, it was easy to see that he was still very much still a boy. ...more I don't read a lot of non-fiction (I MAKE myself read something every summer), and memoir is my least favorite type in this genre. I just find it so often unbelievably dramatic or annoyingly whiny. This book, however, is intelligently and poignantly written, and very honest! The author, a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, struggles from an early age to replace the father who abandons him and finds the stable \"home\" he is looking for in, of all places, the bar where his uncle works. A bonus is t I don't read a lot of non-fiction (I MAKE myself read something every summer), and memoir is my least favorite type in this genre. I just find it so often unbelievably dramatic or annoyingly whiny. This book, however, is intelligently and poignantly written, and very honest! The author, a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, struggles from an early age to replace the father who abandons him and finds the stable \"home\" he is looking for in, of all places, the bar where his uncle works. A bonus is that it is full of men who provide him with the feelings of acceptance and support he needs, and eventually the bar itself becomes his sanctuary, as it symbolizes the saftey net for all his failures. At one point, when he is junior high age or so, one of his many mentors in the book berates him,\"I hate when when people ask me what a book is about. People who read for plot...should stick to comic books and soap operas. Every book worth a damn is about emotions and love and death and pain. It's about words. It's about a man dealing with life. Okay?\" This is certainly what JR Moehringer's book is \"about,\" and while it may take him a long time to overcome his lack of self-confidence and dependence on the bar, when he achieves his independence, you can't help but feel proud of him. He is a word master and the book is full of subtle allusions to Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Shakespeare and others, which I found delightful! ...more This is a curious way to preface a book: \u201cI needed a family, a home, and men. Especially men. I needed men as mentors, heroes, role models, and as a kind of masculine counterweight to my mother, grandmother, aunt and five female cousins with whom I lived. The bar provided me with all the men I needed, and one or two men who were the last thing I needed.\u201d It\u2019s not what you think. And I can\u2019t really write any comments on this book. Six trillion people love it\u2014and two don\u2019t. I am the other one. Anyon This is a curious way to preface a book: \u201cI needed a family, a home, and men. Especially men. I needed men as mentors, heroes, role models, and as a kind of masculine counterweight to my mother, grandmother, aunt and five female cousins with whom I lived. The bar provided me with all the men I needed, and one or two men who were the last thing I needed.\u201d It\u2019s not what you think. And I can\u2019t really write any comments on this book. Six trillion people love it\u2014and two don\u2019t. I am the other one. Anyone must who writes phrases such as \"Publicans is the Aladdin's Lamp of Long Island, make a wish, give the bar a rub - and presto. Aladdin, aka Publicans, provides\" or \"maybe Publicans was Steve's Great American Novel and he didn't see the point of someone writing another novel about it\" has reason to be circumspect in my world. The Tender Bar is very well written, but as I read the book I kept saying to myself 'when is he going to get to the point?' Then I realized there is really no point it is just a retrospective of J.R.'s life. To me\u2014growing up on Long Island, going to Princeton and hanging around a bar isn't enough of a life worth writing about and certainly not reading about. I don't know..... I just didn't get it. I\u2019m sorry. But it is extremely well written. Did I say that already? Yes, it is extremely well written. Written. Well. Amen. You may gather togerther and whip my ass--I probably deserve it. ...more J.R. Moehringer's The Tender Bar describes Moehringer's experience as a boy growing up in decrepit, old house with his cynical grandfather, his grandmother, and his mother, in the town of Manhasset, New York. It is a well-crafted memoir tracking the development of a fatherless boy with aspirations to make something of his life. Searching for a mentor, Moehringer manages to find a group of men from a local bar to serve as a collective fatherly figure. They teach him the ins and outs of sports, be J.R. Moehringer's The Tender Bar describes Moehringer's experience as a boy growing up in decrepit, old house with his cynical grandfather, his grandmother, and his mother, in the town of Manhasset, New York. It is a well-crafted memoir tracking the development of a fatherless boy with aspirations to make something of his life. Searching for a mentor, Moehringer manages to find a group of men from a local bar to serve as a collective fatherly figure. They teach him the ins and outs of sports, betting, and drinking. Despite his circumstances, Moehringer is able to rise above the odds and ends up working for the New York Times with a degree from Yale. Throughout the memoir Moehringer describes his struggle to find his place in a variety of different settings. Just as he starts to fit in with the quick-witted men from the bar, he must learn to fit in with the elite of Yale. He is constantly trying to adjust to his changing circumstances. He isn\u2019t complaining, but he writes in an analytical style to describe his place in each social scene. The brutally honest descriptions of alcoholism and its impact on life in Manhasset make for a very emotional read. Even though Moehringer is a very driven young man, time and time again he returns to the bar for comfort. Anyone looking for a well-written, brutally honest, coming of age, memoir will enjoy The Tender Bar. ...more Another book I want to jump in down and scream READ THIS BOOK about. And not just because I'm a drunk! I've read a lot of novels that involved drunks/bars. They are either over the top dramatic, OMG! BOOZE WILL KILL ME! Or, \"Yeah, I drink 2 pints of Whisky a night and get fired all the time. What?\" I felt this book was really honest about the whole boozing all the time issue. The guy does eventually stop drinking but he doesn't have all these awful things happen to him. Shit just changes. And he Another book I want to jump in down and scream READ THIS BOOK about. And not just because I'm a drunk! I've read a lot of novels that involved drunks/bars. They are either over the top dramatic, OMG! BOOZE WILL KILL ME! Or, \"Yeah, I drink 2 pints of Whisky a night and get fired all the time. What?\" I felt this book was really honest about the whole boozing all the time issue. The guy does eventually stop drinking but he doesn't have all these awful things happen to him. Shit just changes. And he realizes he wants more. Anyway, it's really not about that I don't know why I'm going on and on about that. It's more about this crazy, zany, swashbuckling personalities in his bar. Of course, they reminded me of my folks in my bar. All old and crabby but just really amazing and taking good care of one another. He actually had boxes full of napkins he'd written dialogue down on so a lot it is verbatim. The old dudes at the bar talk about literature in between talking about how many women they're fucking. It's great. I should stop talking about it because I'm not making it sound very great. ...more Casi nunca leo los pr\u00f3logos. Me incomodan, no s\u00e9 bien por qu\u00e9. \u00c9ste pr\u00f3logo lo le\u00ed porque era corto y era en voz del propio autor. Ha sido uno de los pr\u00f3logos m\u00e1s prometedores y que m\u00e1s ganas me han dado de leer un libro en a\u00f1os. Y el resto no me ha defraudado. La autobiograf\u00eda de JR Moehringer es tierna, entra\u00f1able, miserable y triste todo a un tiempo. Se lee con nostalgia, aunque no hayamos estado nunca en el Dickens/Publicans, y ni siquiera al final se nos van las ganas de tomarnos una copa e Casi nunca leo los pr\u00f3logos. Me incomodan, no s\u00e9 bien por qu\u00e9. \u00c9ste pr\u00f3logo lo le\u00ed porque era corto y era en voz del propio autor. Ha sido uno de los pr\u00f3logos m\u00e1s prometedores y que m\u00e1s ganas me han dado de leer un libro en a\u00f1os. Y el resto no me ha defraudado. La autobiograf\u00eda de JR Moehringer es tierna, entra\u00f1able, miserable y triste todo a un tiempo. Se lee con nostalgia, aunque no hayamos estado nunca en el Dickens/Publicans, y ni siquiera al final se nos van las ganas de tomarnos una copa en ese local. ...more I've had this book on my shelf for quite a few years but I noticed the audio at the library so decided to check it out. I don't know what I expected but it wasn't a story about an actual bar. But that is exactly what it is about....a bar that was the centerpiece of J.R. Moehringer's coming of age. Through his eyes I came to love his bar which was a Cheers kind of place in Manhasset, NY but without the gags. I also loved his quirky family for the brief time I spent with them....the grandfather wh I've had this book on my shelf for quite a few years but I noticed the audio at the library so decided to check it out. I don't know what I expected but it wasn't a story about an actual bar. But that is exactly what it is about....a bar that was the centerpiece of J.R. Moehringer's coming of age. Through his eyes I came to love his bar which was a Cheers kind of place in Manhasset, NY but without the gags. I also loved his quirky family for the brief time I spent with them....the grandfather who grudgingly accepted anyone who wanted to live in his house and eat at his dinner table, the uncle who tended bar and served as a father figure for young Moehringer and the strong, loving and supportive mother. Moehringer has an excellent voice for narration but what I loved the most about the audio was the piano music between the CD's. It really set the mood and atmosphere. I almost gave this book 5 stars....but I want to see how I feel about it a year from now. Wonderful, engaging read. ...more I first heard about this memoir from a male acquaintance who raved about the portrait it painted of a fatherless boy becoming a man under the tutelage of a handful of characters who frequented a pub down the street from his home. And the book did start off promisingly enough, with an overview chapter that demonstrated the author knew something about how to construct a sentence and intriguing teasers for events in the coming pages. I hadn't gotten very far into the author's descriptions of his un I first heard about this memoir from a male acquaintance who raved about the portrait it painted of a fatherless boy becoming a man under the tutelage of a handful of characters who frequented a pub down the street from his home. And the book did start off promisingly enough, with an overview chapter that demonstrated the author knew something about how to construct a sentence and intriguing teasers for events in the coming pages. I hadn't gotten very far into the author's descriptions of his unarguably challenged childhood, however, before I came close to abandoning the book altogether. I've read quite a few memoirs, including many that describe childhoods even worse than this author's, but I've never encountered one with such an overarching tone of self-pity, and I wasn't sure I could stand 400+ pages of that. The book became less maudlin as he grew older, however, and replaced that victim-of-circumstances tone with a more insightful victim-of-his-own-bad-choices tale. There are moments in the telling of that tale that do shine - he can be funny at times, and I did get a better sense of what the foreign (to me, anyway) world of bar culture can be like. Ultimately, though, I finished this book feeling like the author did not succeed in telling the story he wanted to tell. Bars are full of yarns and he relates some good ones, but they are not linked together in a very coherent way. He also has a bit of a focusing problem, spending too long on events that aren't that rich while leaving other enormous topics (like alcoholism) almost entirely unmined. In one section of the book, the author talks about his failed attempts to write a novel about the bar that became his adopted home. I can't help but wonder if he had stuck with that project if he might ultimately written a better book, one with more discipline and insight. As it stands, he is too captive to his own nostalgia to have made the world he loved accessible to those of us not already familiar with it. ...more Ognuno di noi ha un luogo sacro, un rifugio, dove il suo cuore \u00e8 pi\u00f9 puro, la sua mente pi\u00f9 lucida, dove si sente pi\u00f9 vicino a Dio o all\u2019amore o alla verit\u00e0 o a qualunque cosa gli capiti di venerare. Nel bene e nel male, il mio luogo sacro era il bar di Steve. E poich\u00e9 l\u2019avevo scoperto durante l\u2019infanzia, era ancora pi\u00f9 sacro, avvolto dalla particolare reverenza che hanno i bambini per i posti in cui si sentono al sicuro. Per altri poteva essere un\u2019aula o un parco giochi, un teatro o una chiesa, Ognuno di noi ha un luogo sacro, un rifugio, dove il suo cuore \u00e8 pi\u00f9 puro, la sua mente pi\u00f9 lucida, dove si sente pi\u00f9 vicino a Dio o all\u2019amore o alla verit\u00e0 o a qualunque cosa gli capiti di venerare. Nel bene e nel male, il mio luogo sacro era il bar di Steve. E poich\u00e9 l\u2019avevo scoperto durante l\u2019infanzia, era ancora pi\u00f9 sacro, avvolto dalla particolare reverenza che hanno i bambini per i posti in cui si sentono al sicuro. Per altri poteva essere un\u2019aula o un parco giochi, un teatro o una chiesa, una biblioteca o uno stadio. Persino una casa. Ma nessuno di quei posti era il mio. Si esalta quel che si ha a disposizione. Se fossi cresciuto sulle rive di un fiume o di un oceano, naturale stimolo alla maturazione e alla fuga, forse sarebbe stato quello il mio mito. Invece sono cresciuto a centoquarantadue passi da una vecchia, gloriosa taverna americana, e questo ha fatto la differenza. Ci andavamo per ogni nostro bisogno. Quando avevamo sete, naturalmente, e fame, e quand\u2019eravamo stanchi morti. Ci andavamo se eravamo felici, per festeggiare, e quand\u2019eravamo tristi, per tenere il broncio. Ci andavamo dopo i matrimoni e i funerali, a prendere qualcosa per calmarci i nervi, e appena prima, per farci coraggio. Ci andavamo quando non sapevamo di cos\u2019avevamo bisogno, nella speranza che qualcuno ce lo dicesse. Ci andavamo in cerca d\u2019amore, o di sesso, o di guai, o di qualcuno che era sparito, perch\u00e9 prima o poi capitava l\u00ec. Ci andavamo soprattutto quando avevamo bisogno di essere ritrovati. Splendida autobiografia di questo ragazzino, JR, cresciuto senza padre e per questo sempre alla ricerca di un surrogato, della compagnia degli uomini. Fin da piccolo il suo mito \u00e8 il Dickens, il bar dove lavora lo zio Charlie. E il bar diventa il punto di riferimento per tutta la sua vita, nel bene e nel male. Incredibili i personaggi di cui \u00e8 circondato questo ragazzo, bellissimi i riferimenti letterari. Un ottimo libro. ...more", "Title": "The Tender Bar"},
