{"Comments": "Books like this are why I study English literature at university, books like this are why I read so ferociously. Ferocious reading? Now that\u2019s an interesting image. But, honestly, I\u2019m careful when I read. I wouldn\u2019t want to scratch those pages! But, I\u2019m digressing here. This book is an eye-opener; it is an excellent teacher of part of English cultural history. Could you imagine fighting for a country not your own, and then being treated by the citizens of that country like dirt? Those you ended Books like this are why I study English literature at university, books like this are why I read so ferociously. Ferocious reading? Now that\u2019s an interesting image. But, honestly, I\u2019m careful when I read. I wouldn\u2019t want to scratch those pages! But, I\u2019m digressing here. This book is an eye-opener; it is an excellent teacher of part of English cultural history. Could you imagine fighting for a country not your own, and then being treated by the citizens of that country like dirt? Those you ended up saving,<---M> those you helped to win the war</---M>, view you as a ruffian and a scumbag just because of the colour of your skin. Such was the thankless attitude of the British public when black soldiers returned from the war. West Indian soldiers fought and died for the commonwealth, and when they tried to enter the heart of it, dreary England, they were treated as second class citizens. Now I\u2019m, of course, speaking in generalised terms. Not everyone felt and acted this way, but there was enough of it for <---A>Andrea Levy</---A> to write such a powerful novel depicting the realities these men faced. This is a great story, completely character driven that much so I\u2019m going to divide the remainder of my review into two to discuss the most complex characters. The raptured wife- Hortense - She is attracted to this idea of England. She has grown up reading English novels, listening to the white man\u2019s education, and has eventually gone on to teach the same value to her pupils. For her, this idea of England is something she has always wanted. Unfortunately, for her, it doesn\u2019t exist, at least not for a black woman in 50s England. When she finally makes it to the land of her dreams, she realises how secluded and isolated she is. Nobody wants her in their country; her strength resides in her dignity and a will to carry on regardless of what others think. She is the most complex character in the novel, and the one I enjoyed reading about the most. When I l look back on this novel in a few years\u2019 time, I will remember Hortense before anyone else, and her struggle to receive the respect she deserves. The representative of the stupid English patriarchy and a casual racist- Bernard Bligh- He is outdated and incredibly repulsive, this figure of foolishness represents how small minded some people can actually be. His journey is one of stupidity and selfishness. He is emasculate and slightly insecure, so joining the army for him is a way to prove his manliness and escape his pointless marriage. The man simply doesn\u2019t know how to behave in the bedroom! I will say no more, other than that his wife is a poor soul for marrying such a stoic creature. He witnesses some real heroes in the army, and despite his continued fear, he even commits one himself. Contrastingly, Gilbert is a real soldier; yet, when Bernard returns he has the audacity to put on the superiority act. He such a repulsive man to read about, but his type is one that infests history. Final Thoughts - this wasn\u2019t told in chronological order; it\u2019s structure, time frame and narrative were in a carefully chosen order. It slowly, and ever so delicately, began to reveal the reasons behind the character\u2019s choices, and it was such an effective technique. It\u2019s like Levy slowly peeled away the layers of the characters, and revealed them one step at a time. This was an excellent piece of literature; I studied it on a postcolonial module, and fell in love with the brutal realism behind the words.<---F> Levy is an excellent storyteller</---F>. ...more I loved this book, but I realize that I am very biased because I am Jamaican, and have many relatives who emigrated to the UK from Jamaica, so the characters were immediately real and recognizable to me. Some reviewers have complained that her use of dialect was heavy-handed, but from my perspective, she actually tones down Jamaican Patois (<---B>also called Jamaican Creole</---B>) significantly to make it understandable to non-Jamaicans. On a visit to Jamaica last year, I heard her interviewed and she said I loved this book, but I realize that I am very biased because I am Jamaican, and have many relatives who emigrated to the UK from Jamaica, so the characters were immediately real and recognizable to me. Some reviewers have complained that her use of dialect was heavy-handed, but from my perspective, she actually tones down Jamaican Patois (also called Jamaican Creole) significantly to make it understandable to non-Jamaicans. On a visit to Jamaica last year, I heard her interviewed and she said she was writing as much for Jamaicans as for a wider audience, and she knew the book wouldn't ring true to us if the characters didn't speak patois much of the time. I think it's a fascinating look at the first wave of West Indian immigrants to the place they had been taught to think of as the \"mother country\", and the responses they received from white Britons when they arrived. I particularly liked the part that was set in the Jamaica of the 1940's. Thought the ending was a little too neat, but it didn't diminish my love of the book. ...more Fantastic novel, a real eye opener! <+++>Small Island</+++> is a novel that connects continents in wartime. It takes the reader from Jamaica to England and on to India in the days of the second World War. Four main characters connect the dots. A Gilbert, a young Jamaican who joins the RAF to fight Hitler but finds himself fighting racism instead; Queenie, a young white woman who takes in Jamaican Lodgers; her husband Bernard, who is fighting the Japs in India; and the Jamaican girl Hortense, who travels to Fantastic novel, a real eye opener! <+++>Small Island</+++> is a novel that connects continents in wartime. It takes the reader from Jamaica to England and on to India in the days of the second World War. Four main characters connect the dots. A Gilbert, a young Jamaican who joins the RAF to fight Hitler but finds himself fighting racism instead; Queenie, a young white woman who takes in Jamaican Lodgers; her husband Bernard, who is fighting the Japs in India; and the Jamaican girl Hortense, who travels to England, the revered Mother Country, to try her luck as a teacher... Andrea Levy's writing is absolutely delicious. Never a word too much, never a detail too many, so full of life and colour; I simply devoured the book. But added to that it is a great read on interracial relationships and interactions in England during the Second World War, where Jamaicans, Americans, Brits and many others tried to make sense of skin color, race, social status, and what all that should signify when surviving the same war. Where mainstream history books talk about the war in terms of Europeans, the Canadians, the Americans and the Japs, Small Island sheds a much needed light on all those who fought the war. A must read for Literature Lovers, and a must read for those who are interested in interracial relationships, culture (ex)change, race and racism, the Caribbean, and the Second World War. ...more I wanted to enjoy this book because I am a West Indian now and did the reverse journey - first world UK to backward little Caribbean island, but the journey was a lot more enjoyable than the book. I finished it by an act of will and apart from odd scenes of violence or lasciviousness, it didn't hold my attention. It was such an easy read that the pages flowed into each other leaving no trace on my brain at all. Like the sea washing the sand clean with each wave, so did each page disappear from my I wanted to enjoy this book because I am a West Indian now and did the reverse journey - first world UK to backward little Caribbean island, but the journey was a lot more enjoyable than the book. I finished it by an act of will and apart from odd scenes of violence or lasciviousness, it didn't hold my attention. It was such an easy read that the pages flowed into each other leaving no trace on my brain at all. Like the sea washing the sand clean with each wave, so did each page disappear from my memory as the next one was read. Bye Small Island, I've moved on and forgotten you now... ...more I'm trying to figure out my reaction to this book, other than the fact that I loved it. I have a hard time putting into words my feelings about this book. Small Island is the story of four people in the aftermath of WW II. Levy is concerned with the experience of immigrants and racial issues in post War London. I dont think the story could have been told in a shorter span, and it is one of those that you understand why it won the awards that it did. I didn't find the dialect annoying or hard to fo I'm trying to figure out my reaction to this book, other than the fact that I loved it. I have a hard time putting into words my feelings about this book. Small Island is the story of four people in the aftermath of WW II. Levy is concerned with the experience of immigrants and racial issues in post War London. I dont think the story could have been told in a shorter span, and it is one of those that you understand why it won the awards that it did. I didn't find the dialect annoying or hard to follow. Of the four central characters, I found Bernard the hardest to relate to, though this does seem to be Levy's intention. She has to capture a certain type, after all, for the book to work. I also have to say that while I have never really liked Benedict Cumberpatch in anything I've seen him, I think he was perfectly cast in the television adaption of this book. He really is Bernard to a \"T\". While all of the three remaining characters are relatable and human, the one that stands out the most is Hortense. This is because her voice is so stand alone, so independent, so different, and so nailed. Levy doesn't need any description of Hortense, she just needs to let Hortense speak and the reader can see her. That's good writing. The book comments on the immigrant experience of traveling to a new country and realizing reality doesn't match the stories. This is combined with various racial conflcits, racism, as well as classism. Because of the alternately viewpoints, the reader has a far clearer picture of what is driving each of the characters, more than the characters themselves. The most interesting part, at least for this reader, was watching the interplay of class and race conflict. Hortense is just as bigoted in her way as the English people are racist in thiers. The story deals with the two set of couples (Queenie and Bernard; Hortense and Gilbert) and highlights the similarities and differences of each. Both women marry for something other than love. In many ways, the book is also about a married life where neither partner is sure of the other. And I think that is why I am having trouble naming what is so wonderful about this book. There is so much going on in terms of theme. If done incorrectly, it would fail, but Levy does it brillantly. The book is so balanced that you don't even realize until you put it down what she did. The ending is not a happy ending; nor a sad one really. It is a realstic ending, despite a contrived point concerning it. It's realism puts the reader on shakey ground It's an ending that makes you think about everything Levy has been writing about. It reminds of a movie I saw on the Sundance Channel called Cass . The movie was about a football holigan who was black but raised by a white family when that was not the normal. The movie was about more than beating up fans of the opposing team. This book is something more than advertised. It brings to light a time that was overshadowed by the time before, and than, more importantly, gets the reader to think about everything in the world. Update: I feel that I should point out that I like Mr. Cumberpatch in Sherlock as well. ...more Mixed feelings about this one; read very easily and the historical context is one that interests me. However it did not really do what I thought it set out do, which was to chronicle the early years of the Windrush generation. There are four narrators; Hortense and Gilbert from Jamaica and Queenie and Bernard who are English (although Bernard feels like a bit of an add on, arriving in the last quarter of the book). That makes the book feel a little disjointed. A great deal of time is also spent Mixed feelings about this one; read very easily and the historical context is one that interests me. However it did not really do what I thought it set out do, which was to chronicle the early years of the Windrush generation. There are four narrators; Hortense and Gilbert from Jamaica and Queenie and Bernard who are English (although Bernard feels like a bit of an add on, arriving in the last quarter of the book). That makes the book feel a little disjointed. A great deal of time is also spent with the earlier lives of three of the protagonists. Too much time, I think for the length of the novel. I think Levy is trying to write three novels in one. Firstly, life in Jamaica and Britain in the late 1920s and 1930s; Secondly, the war and the experiences of West Indian servicemen and interactions with locals and GIs. Thirdly, Windrush and beyond. That's all too much for one novel to take. As a consequence all three areas suffer. I also felt that the characters lacked something, which again may be as a result of trying to cram too much in. On the whole I prefer David Dabydeen's more thoughtful approach to the topic. One part that did ring true was the racism in the white community, which I remember from the late 1960s and early 1970s. I particularly remember the unthinking and irrational nature of it which Levy portays well. This was a source of puzzlement to me as a child as I saw my elders behaving in ways which I thought were rude and inhuman. Levy describes the surprise and disappointment of the new arrivals as the encounter post-war London. All in all a bit of a varied mixture which tried to do too much. ...more A well researched, well written book with surprising twists and turns. The author manages to show compassion for all the characters and write the story in such a way that this international bestseller speaks to a very wide audience. The humor is the the glue which keeps the story riveting and a delight to read despite the hardships and dire circumstances the characters had to endure. Hortense Joseph, an immigrant from Jamaica, settles in London in 1948, after leaving her beloved island for a bett A well researched, well written book with surprising twists and turns. The author manages to show compassion for all the characters and write the story in such a way that this international bestseller speaks to a very wide audience. The humor is the the glue which keeps the story riveting and a delight to read despite the hardships and dire circumstances the characters had to endure. Hortense Joseph, an immigrant from Jamaica, settles in London in 1948, after leaving her beloved island for a better life; a new beginning. As a British colony, the island's men went to fight on the British side, only to discover afterwards, when they immigrated to England, that they were actually regarded as second class citizens and unwelcome. The Brits did not regard them really as British subjects when they exchanged their colonized island for Mother England. Gilbert Joseph, Hortense's husband, an intelligent, kind man, struggles to find lodging and work, but eventually meets Queenie, a white landlady, who's difficult, uncompromising husband Bernard is also still at war. She takes them in, but the neighbors are furious. Wherever the black people moved in, the whites moved out in no uncertain terms. Andrea writes in such a way that the reader can almost smell the streets of London, experience the might of exploding bombs, and stand mesmerized by the events as it unfolds. The saga ends on a surprising note. This book deserves the accolades it received. Listen to this Podcast interview with the author about this book. ...more Wow. I wish that could be my entire review. It feels like \"wow\" should be sufficient. But in the interest of getting this book into the hands of as many people as possible, I'll attempt to do this book some justice. With NO Spoilers. No worries. This is not a book I would normally choose to read. (I read it with a book group.) The description made it seem depressing, and just too \"heavy\" for me. However, Andrea Levy is such a gifted writer that she is able to breathe humor into even desolate circ Wow. I wish that could be my entire review. It feels like \"wow\" should be sufficient. But in the interest of getting this book into the hands of as many people as possible, I'll attempt to do this book some justice. With NO Spoilers. No worries. This is not a book I would normally choose to read. (I read it with a book group.) The description made it seem depressing, and just too \"heavy\" for me. However, Andrea Levy is such a gifted writer that she is able to breathe humor into even desolate circumstances and situations. I don't want to compare her with God, but \"Let there be light\" comes to mind. And this lady shines. The story takes place primarily in England and in Jamaica, with small bits in India and in Virginia, primarily during WWII, and for a short time afterward. It is told from four different points of view throughout: that of two Jamaican citizens, who are black (Hortense and Gilbert), and two English citizens, who are white (Queenie and Bernard). One of the things I like best about the book is the way it is organized. First, we meet Queenie as a young girl in the prologue. Then, in chapter one, we skip to 1948, to Hortense's point of view in the now, when all four characters are in England. We get the opportunity to meet each of the main characters when they are young people, and we stay with that person until 1948. At that point, we dip into the now (1948), following several of the characters in short chapters before going back to the childhood of the next character, and once again coming forward now with that person to 1948. It sounds complicated, but it was seamlessly and expertly constructed. It didn't detract from the flow of the story in my opinion, but enhanced it. The book tackled tough issues like racism and hypocrisy and infidelity and death while making me feel like I was in a rowboat, drifting quietly and effortlessly on a still pond bathed in sunshine. That is the power of Andrea Levy. She made me laugh out loud, several times, while discussing topics of great solemnity and depth, without being irreverent. She has a rare gift. During the last chapter, I cried, laughed, and sobbed. I could barely read the last paragraph for the tears. After finishing the book, I couldn't stop crying. I was alone, but I felt like I wanted someone to hold me. I felt bereft. I love to read, and I usually read 50-75 books per year, but I can't remember the last time a book moved me this way. This is a book whose time has come, and I can't recommend it highly enough. It is now in my Top 5 All-Time Favorites list. A book to treasure. A book to read again and again. And most importantly, a book I will never forget. Please do yourself a favor and read this book. ...more Story around the ship The Windrush, told through the eyes of two Jamaicans and a British couple and in two distinct times (1948 and \"before\"). Hortense, the main narrator to begin with, is interesting but unsympathetic (very snobbish and judges people by how dark their skin is). Interesting glimpse into the different ways black people were viewed and treated by US forces, British forces and various British civilians, which is different again from Bernard's views of India and its inhabitants. Lin Story around the ship The Windrush, told through the eyes of two Jamaicans and a British couple and in two distinct times (1948 and \"before\"). Hortense, the main narrator to begin with, is interesting but unsympathetic (very snobbish and judges people by how dark their skin is). Interesting glimpse into the different ways black people were viewed and treated by US forces, British forces and various British civilians, which is different again from Bernard's views of India and its inhabitants. Linguistic contrasts too: educated Jamaicans alternating between local patois and overly-formal King's English. And which is the eponymous \"small island\"? ...more [4.5] Middlebrow fiction as it should be done: entertaining, readable but not without substance; a book you still look forward to picking up when you're using most of your spare time for things other than reading. Levy makes this kind of writing look easy, but there must be a lot of paddling going on under the surface to make the novel glide so smoothly. No surprise that this was made into a BBC drama - it certainly has that Sunday evening TV feel: characters are entirely believeable as personal [4.5] Middlebrow fiction as it should be done: entertaining, readable but not without substance; a book you still look forward to picking up when you're using most of your spare time for things other than reading. Levy makes this kind of writing look easy, but there must be a lot of paddling going on under the surface to make the novel glide so smoothly. No surprise that this was made into a BBC drama - it certainly has that Sunday evening TV feel: characters are entirely believeable as personalities, and there's an excellent mixture of the soapy (drama, big coincidences) and the detail of everyday life in the past, the well-trodden and the less so. Accessible literary fiction set in the present can easily become dreary, but Small Island spans enough time, and an eventful enough time, that there's always something really happening , not just people staring into space and thinking whilst driving or cooking for pages and pages. It could be difficult to argue with someone who wanted to call this an issue novel (about racism). But maybe it depends on background: I just didn't see it that way. My grandparents came to Britain in the same decade as Gilbert and Hortense. Okay, if they walked through an area where no-one knew them or their names, they wore clothes that fitted in perfectly and they didn't speak, they would have been able to go about unremarked, unlike the Jamaican immigrants. But that wasn't the way most people lived in the forties. I still remember hearing about the racist bullying that went on in those days (worst between kids) and my incredulity that they weren't automatically assumed to be somewhat heroic due to the war. As a kid I thought not in terms of colour but simply people who were, like me, [partly] \"not from here\" in a non-pejorative sense, and those who were. My first school best friend was Indian, and I felt more at home with her than with the children who seemed entirely English. So although American commentators on race in particular (from a culture that has different attitudes to immigration that are more closely tied to colour) make strong divides between black and white, my gut feeling gives more affinity with Gilbert and Hortense. Before reading a lot of identity politics material, it never seemed necessary to explicitly and defensively point out the awareness I'd always had that people from different countries or ethnic groups will have differing experiences related to that - that was just, well, duh. On page 525, there is a speech by Gilbert which points out among other things, \"no better, no worse than me - just white\" which is fantastic as a balanced middle ground between the racists and the contemporary extremes of the internet social justice warrior tendency. (Surprised that paragraph isn't a GR quote.) The more aggressive racism of America is a significant feature of the book. When the story follows Jamaican RAF volunteers during the war, it's white GIs who are violent, threatening and active proponents of segregation; the Brits are merely rude on a frequent basis, and , then as now, the UK brand of racism / xenophobia is as much about immigration as about colour, with the large numbers of recently-arrived Czechs, Poles, Belgians and even Jews (despite knowing what they\u2019d gone through), as well as the Windrush Jamaicans, being a focus for rants by racist characters. Although once West Indian men start in working class jobs in England after the war - when they manage to secure a job in the first place - some colleagues are almost as unpleasant as the American soldiers. Arguably, Queenie\u2019s bank clerk husband Bernard is too easy a \u2018villain\u2019, a prejudiced, conventional man who has few redeeming features other than perhaps punctuality. Remember the old geek / nerd/ dork etc distinctions? Bernard is a dork or dweeb: he has the ineptitude and narrow-minded rigidity without better than average skills, and his context and anger means he\u2019s not Pooterishly amusing. The more complex character of Queenie demonstrates that some racism is unthinking and conformity to attitudes a person grew up with \u2013 a person who could be educated out of it, especially by first hand experience. With Bernard it\u2019s more ingrained and connected to other aspects of his character. His narrative was bloody irritating to read and gave me all the more sympathy for Queenie: she had gone out with him because he was presentable, attentive and seemed like the right sort according to received opinion, and ended up marrying him simply so she didn\u2019t have to return to her parents. Having been involved with a couple of similar types for short periods when I was younger, as rebound or for other expedient reasons, it made me very grateful that times had changed. \u2018Small islanders\u2019 is the Jamaican characters\u2019 term for people from the smaller West Indian islands - yokels and hicks, basically. Travelling abroad they come to regard both Jamaica and the fabled imperial Mother Country of GB (who turns out to be so uncaring and unwelcoming) as small islands too. It must be no accident that \u2018small island\u2019 and \u2018small-minded\u2019 sound similar. Stifling old-fashioned attitudes are almost everywhere. Even Queenie, who\u2019s bravely anti-racist by the standards of her time and community, has no shortage of assumptions that would be unacceptable now. One of the quieter tragedies of the novel is the similarity in personality and opinions between Queenie and Hortense: the barriers that exist in everyone\u2019s heads make it impossible for the two women even to realise all the ways in which they\u2019re alike, let alone become friends as they may have been able to several decades later. Small Island is a school text these days, and I think that\u2019s a good thing. There are plenty of technical and character aspects for essays, plus some history and politics to make it seem worthwhile to kids who aren\u2019t interested in further literature study. Perhaps it\u2019s more likely to be used in schools with a good racial mix where it\u2019s only preaching to the converted, though some teachers will probably introduce it to areas where kids would benefit from thinking more about these topics before they go to university or work. Still, it\u2019s easy to criticise curricula and say how standards have fallen \u2013 I would have approved more if this was a GCSE rather than an A-Level book ...more Well, it was pretty good. It has a lot of heart. Levy is a writer who sometimes teases the reader by dangling a big splodgy sentimental cliche in front of them only to swerve round it at the last moment. She's no fool. I've been looking for novels about immigrants, I read The Beautiful Things That Heaven Bears (which was kind of a drag) and I have Petropolis sitting on my shelf (hope that will be better). (Further suggestions welcomed). Small Island is about (two) Jamaicans coming to 1948 London Well, it was pretty good. It has a lot of heart. Levy is a writer who sometimes teases the reader by dangling a big splodgy sentimental cliche in front of them only to swerve round it at the last moment. She's no fool. I've been looking for novels about immigrants, I read The Beautiful Things That Heaven Bears (which was kind of a drag) and I have Petropolis sitting on my shelf (hope that will be better). (Further suggestions welcomed). Small Island is about (two) Jamaicans coming to 1948 London, who they met, what they'd all done in the war, and so forth. One section which raised my eyebrows was a fantastically anti-American description of the racist US army in which the gruesome behaviour towards black GIs was not only condoned but enshrined by the army authorities, compared to which the common or garden British racism comes across as pretty mild. Still, as a white reader, I do have to ask myself if people were so very horrible to Jamaican immigrants in Britain, and the food being so very appalling, and the weather so horribly cold, why would they put up with it all and stay? Levy presents the total hostility and miserable conditions in grim squalid hard-up London 1948 without confronting this question, which may well be naive, but still deserves an answer. I think a great companion piece to this novel will be White Teeth, also by a smart black British female writer. That one's been on my shelf forever. ...more Andrea Levy's Small Island is a book about misconceptions of identity and race during World War II era Britain. The story revolves around Jamaicans who move to England as they believe they are \"British\" as they feel entitled to all the Mother Country has to offer. What they realize is that not everything is as it may seem. The best feature of this book is the way Levy tries to explain \"colonial politics.\" During the height of colonialism, European rulers instructed their subjects in Africa, Asia Andrea Levy's Small Island is a book about misconceptions of identity and race during World War II era Britain. The story revolves around Jamaicans who move to England as they believe they are \"British\" as they feel entitled to all the Mother Country has to offer. What they realize is that not everything is as it may seem. The best feature of this book is the way Levy tries to explain \"colonial politics.\" During the height of colonialism, European rulers instructed their subjects in Africa, Asia and Latin America that if they \"act\" properly by learning the ways of being a European they will be treated equally. This included having light skinned and having 'proper' Christian education. This book also shows that people of color in England have to deal with the same level of racism as their counterparts in the United States. Although they had the right skin color and education, when the first wave of Jamaicans arrived on British shores in the 1940s, they were relegated to second class citizenship as shown in the novel. Many of these immigrants who fought with the British against Hitler's Germany. Instead of being welcomed with congratulatory arms after the war was won, these former colonial fighters were treated even worse by the country they just helped. This is the same experience African American soldiers saw as they returned to Jim Crow America. It is interesting to note that in the novel much of the racism colonial soldiers have to deal with come from white American GI stationed in England. The book also points out that race relations still has a long way even today both in the US and in England. ...more I heard Andrea Levy on \u2018Desert Island Discs\u2019 the other week (cue Paul Bryant spitting tea over his keyboard at the mention of that hated middle class institution. Although quite how a character in Alan Hollinghurst\u2019s new novel gets off on being such a class warrior, God only knows). She was charming and amusing and it occurred to me with shame that I\u2019d never actually read any of her work \u2013 particularly as \u2018Small Island\u2019 has been on my to-do list since publication. And now having perused the fina I heard Andrea Levy on \u2018Desert Island Discs\u2019 the other week (cue Paul Bryant spitting tea over his keyboard at the mention of that hated middle class institution. Although quite how a character in Alan Hollinghurst\u2019s new novel gets off on being such a class warrior, God only knows). She was charming and amusing and it occurred to me with shame that I\u2019d never actually read any of her work \u2013 particularly as \u2018Small Island\u2019 has been on my to-do list since publication. And now having perused the final page, I find I\u2019m incredibly glad that I did, as the qualities she exhibited on Radio 4 \u2013 wit, warmth, compassion \u2013 are all here in abundance. \u2018Small Island\u2019 concerns two married couples, one set from Jamaica and the other British, and deals with how their lives intersect in post-war London \u2013 with flashbacks to what brought them to that corner of Earl\u2019s Court in the first place. Through this Levy examines a variety of issues: the arrival of Windrush generation and the prejudice they faced; the consequences of war for Britain and its people; as well as a stringent nationalistic morality that will take decades to change. It\u2019s a book with a lot in it, but one which never feels preachy or as if it\u2019s straining to give a twenty-first century liberal history lecture on prejudice in nineteen-forties England. The points are made, but they are made through the characters and so the book never hectors the reader. I\u2019m sure I must have mentioned elsewhere once or twice my love of London, and this is an excellent London novel \u2013 even if it is focussed on a corner of the city which might as well be on Mars for all the experience I\u2019ve ever had of it. Levy really captures life after wartime, the hardness involved, the old time values still entrenched \u2013 but also the promise of change and the world getting better. ...more Rating: 2.5* of five This woman and I are not a good fit. I read and loathed The Long Song, finding it tedious and contrived. I got this excrescence out of the library because I thought it unfair to judge an author by one book. Hell, I even gave EGGERS more than one book. Small Island is a mean-spirited, judgmental, and sarcastic book. In the guise of \"telling it like it is\", Levy manages to make the reader detest every single person she describes as a narrow, unkind, worthless human being. I know Rating: 2.5* of five This woman and I are not a good fit. I read and loathed The Long Song, finding it tedious and contrived. I got this excrescence out of the library because I thought it unfair to judge an author by one book. Hell, I even gave EGGERS more than one book. Small Island is a mean-spirited, judgmental, and sarcastic book. In the guise of \"telling it like it is\", Levy manages to make the reader detest every single person she describes as a narrow, unkind, worthless human being. I know that this is perceived by others as ironic and humourous (misspelling deliberate, that was my attempt at ironic distancing, didja see? didja see?), but I don't believe it. She's an angry, angry woman who's out to flagellate a world that doesn't run the way she thinks it should. And by \"she\" I mean the authorial \"she.\" I don't know Ms. Levy at all and I don't want to particularly, if she's anything like the books she writes. Scant danger of that, I suppose, since I live on Long Island and she on Small Island. Hated it. Would burn it if I could, but it's the liberry's copy. It's too late for most of y'all, but not recommended to the point of saying \"run away! run away!\" ...more What happens when young Jamaican men join the war effort for Britain against Germany? The Jamaicans are educated and consider themselves part of the British empire and children of the mother country of England. Unfortunately the people of England doesn't seem to recognize the Jamaicans; they don't know where Jamaica is and to them Jamaicans are just black people, inferior to white. Prejudice, alive and well in 1948 Britain. In this story we follow Gilbert and Hortense, a Jamaican couple; and Ber What happens when young Jamaican men join the war effort for Britain against Germany? The Jamaicans are educated and consider themselves part of the British empire and children of the mother country of England. Unfortunately the people of England doesn't seem to recognize the Jamaicans; they don't know where Jamaica is and to them Jamaicans are just black people, inferior to white. Prejudice, alive and well in 1948 Britain. In this story we follow Gilbert and Hortense, a Jamaican couple; and Bernard and Queenie a white couple; and a young Jamaican man named Michael Roberts who becomes entwined in the lives of all of them. Set in both pre-WWII Jamaica and WWII London, race, relationships and world changes all come together to make a very good novel. I only recall meeting one person from Jamaica. He was a student trainee in acupuncture and I was a patient. I was pretty new to my grief of losing a child (and new in that case lasts at least 5 years) and the world looked grey to me, I was always cold. So here comes this tall black man bursting with color and warmth; everything about him looked and felt warm and his smile was dazzling. I thought maybe I could get better if this man just kept his warm hand covering mine and smiled. I don't think he even put any needles in, I just remember meeting him that one time, but I can pull out that memory like the memory of a sunny day when it has been endlessly cloudy. I also remember the middle-aged black women from the islands who lived in N. Miami Beach. They always dressed like for church, in dresses and hats, I think I may even have seen some gloves. And that was in 2001. I thought it was classy. So evidently I was predisposed to like this book and relate well to the characters, even Michael Roberts, even the ludicrous Bernard. It was the author's gift to put these characters on the page in a way that let a reader relate to them in all their failings and mistakes. I also loved the dialect, I could hear it in my head. Very, very good book. ...more The story mainly takes place in 1948 UK. It is told from different character's perceptions. Hortense is a Jamaican teacher who aspires to become a \"high class teacher in the UK.\" Gilbert is the Jamaican man she weds to get herself there. Queenie is a beautiful white British woman who takes in boarders when she believes that her husband has died in the war. Bernard is Queenie's bigoted husband, who joins the RAF to avoid the draft and is stationed in India where he ends up fighting...more The st The story mainly takes place in 1948 UK. It is told from different character's perceptions. Hortense is a Jamaican teacher who aspires to become a \"high class teacher in the UK.\" Gilbert is the Jamaican man she weds to get herself there. Queenie is a beautiful white British woman who takes in boarders when she believes that her husband has died in the war. Bernard is Queenie's bigoted husband, who joins the RAF to avoid the draft and is stationed in India where he ends up fighting...more The story mainly takes place in 1948 UK. It is told from different character's perceptions. Hortense is a Jamaican teacher who aspires to become a \"high class teacher in the UK.\" Gilbert is the Jamaican man she weds to get herself there. Queenie is a beautiful white British woman who takes in boarders when she believes that her husband has died in the war. Bernard is Queenie's bigoted husband, who joins the RAF to avoid the draft and is stationed in India where he ends up fighting the Japanese and becoming a POW after WWII ends in an Indian civil war. The characters in the novel are so well-developed and all have such strong and complex personalities. I loved and hated both Queenie, Hortense, and Gilbert. I just didn't like Bernard but in that dislike could see how he really was a tragic little man. Ms. Levy does an excellent job of pointing out both the blatant and subtle racism and classism inherent in all the characters. I was totally unprepared and surprised by the ending and it touched me. I learned so much about this time period ...more I'm going to come back to this review at a later time. There were parts of this book that I found absolutely brilliant but as it neared its end, I was more than ready to move on to the next book. I need to reflect a little and figure out why. Part of it, I suspect, is the unevenness of the narrators (there are four). The postwar Jamaican immigrants -- Hortense and Gilbert -- were beautifully conceived. Andrea Levy has much to say about emigrants settling in post World War II Britain -- the overbl I'm going to come back to this review at a later time. There were parts of this book that I found absolutely brilliant but as it neared its end, I was more than ready to move on to the next book. I need to reflect a little and figure out why. Part of it, I suspect, is the unevenness of the narrators (there are four). The postwar Jamaican immigrants -- Hortense and Gilbert -- were beautifully conceived. Andrea Levy has much to say about emigrants settling in post World War II Britain -- the overblown expectations, the massive prejudice, the culture shock. Queenie, their British landlady, is decently sketched as well, with her unabashed attitude as she takes in Jamaican (i.e., coloured) renters, shocking her London neighbors. The book tends to lose focus as it weaves toward the fourth narrator, Bernard -- Queenie's boring and sexless husband. There are many reasons: Bernard is stationed in India, which forcibly removes the reader from the rest of the story, which takes place in England. We are suddenly thrust into India's movement toward self-rule. And, when Bernard DOES come back home, the story arc becomes predictable and at the same time, melodramatic. I was somewhat certain I was going to 5-star this book until I got to the last third. At that point, it seemed to run out of steam. I liked this book, but I wanted to love it. ...more Even if the storyline was a little naive sometimes I have to give this book five starts because it was beautiful and I couldn't put it down. Amazing book that goes back and forth between Jamaica and London England in the 40's. Beautiful writing. This historical novel took me a mighty long time to read, and the delay was not because Small Island was deadly boring or badly written. I liked this book, but at the same time I have mixed feelings about the characters. Maybe they were a little too \"ordinary\" for my tastes, OR perhaps since I focus much of my reading on works and characters set in Africa and the Middle East, maybe they were a little too Western for me. Still despite my mixed feelings I loved this novel's optimism and humor. Thi This historical novel took me a mighty long time to read, and the delay was not because Small Island was deadly boring or badly written. I liked this book, but at the same time I have mixed feelings about the characters. Maybe they were a little too \"ordinary\" for my tastes, OR perhaps since I focus much of my reading on works and characters set in Africa and the Middle East, maybe they were a little too Western for me. Still despite my mixed feelings I loved this novel's optimism and humor. This is the first book I've ever read that dealt with racism where the black characters had such self confidence and dignity that they weren't crippled by it. In Small Island they just allowed it to roll off their backs and kept plucking through their lives. From what I've heard this is how Jamaicans are, more so than African Americans. No one was going to be permitted whether English or American to continuously rain on their parade. Gilbert, ever the eternal optimist is a man who doesn't completely wither or writhe under some racist's stare or comment. In fact, he enjoyed at times returning provocations. His haughty wife Hortense, who conducts herself like big money and is a royal snob, learns to not allow racism to completely crush her. In the case of the English characters, Queenie makes the effort to think above the narrow ignorance and bigotry of her environment even though she is by no means a sophisticate being the daughter of a butcher, but her lanky husband Bernand is a prig and a racist. However, with Bernard there is even some hope. Even though I come away from Small Island with some conflicted feelings, I overall enjoyed it and learned a lot of from this novel about England during WWII, the conditions that black soldiers and airmen existed under fighting for the British Empire, and the plight of the earliest Jamaican immigrants to England. ...more I first encountered Small Island three years ago as a television drama done by the BBC. Its title music was \u2018Over the Rainbow\u2019 rendered in jaunty calypso style. Very apt, as it encapsulated protagonist Hortense\u2019s rosy dream of life in the Mother Country. It was no Downton-style romanticisation of the past though. This was harsh cruel post-WW2 reality. It moved me deeply, and partly inspired my own literary effort on a similar subject. So reading Andrea Levy\u2019s fine book now, I had some foreknowle I first encountered Small Island three years ago as a television drama done by the BBC. Its title music was \u2018Over the Rainbow\u2019 rendered in jaunty calypso style. Very apt, as it encapsulated protagonist Hortense\u2019s rosy dream of life in the Mother Country. It was no Downton-style romanticisation of the past though. This was harsh cruel post-WW2 reality. It moved me deeply, and partly inspired my own literary effort on a similar subject. So reading Andrea Levy\u2019s fine book now, I had some foreknowledge of the plot \u2013 not that my old brain retains everything nowadays, so to some extent it was a reminder and a rediscovery. But the book still had the power to shock and, yes, make me feel angry and ashamed of my supposedly superior race. I can remember as recently as twenty years ago otherwise decent and kind people being utterly racially prejudiced. The book rang uncomfortably true. There were light moments too though. I loved the interaction between haughty Hortense and somewhat marriage-of-convenience, anxious to please hubby Gilbert. And there was some lovely period detail that I was reminded of, such as Queenie\u2019s vocabulary \u2013 \u2018blinking\u2019 and \u2018blow me\u2019 genteelly substituting for the earthier b-words. Perhaps my one criticism would be the obnoxious Bernard\u2019s uncharacteristic behaviour near the end which, sweet as it was, didn\u2019t quite ring true. But I\u2019m being churlish. Truth be known, the so, so poignant ending had my eyes smarting. This is my sort of book. It should be required reading in schools, in my humble opinion. But then, one would like to think that young people are more enlightened about race now. Let\u2019s hope so. Perhaps the book title was a metaphor for, amongst other things, our small world. All in all a beautiful book. Highly recommended. ...more I thought \"Small Island\" would be good since it won not only the Orange Prize (Britain's literary contest for women writers) but something called \"The Orange Prize for Fiction: Best of the Best.\" Not to mention the Commonwealth Writers' prize and a bunch of other awards. And I was right - I devoured this book. Levy's amazing storytelling sucks you in from the beginning and makes you care about the characters, Jamaican immigrants to \"the Mother Country\" of England right after World War II, and a I thought \"Small Island\" would be good since it won not only the Orange Prize (Britain's literary contest for women writers) but something called \"The Orange Prize for Fiction: Best of the Best.\" Not to mention the Commonwealth Writers' prize and a bunch of other awards. And I was right - I devoured this book. Levy's amazing storytelling sucks you in from the beginning and makes you care about the characters, Jamaican immigrants to \"the Mother Country\" of England right after World War II, and a few English people who show them kindness. Her unflinching portrayal of the different shades and deep-seated nature of racism, particularly in England, is nothing short of revelatory. I've never read a more clear-eyed and nuanced depiction in fiction. As for her writing style, she has a trick of first presenting a character in the eyes of another character, and making them seem slightly ridiculous. Then she switches to the point of view of the ridiculous character and suddenly they seem completely sympathetic and rather heartbreaking. In trying to think of words to describe this novel, \"textured\" kept coming to my mind. Levy is able to make her protagonists fully believable and the period details seem impeccable. I read a review that called her writing almost \"Dickensian\" and I can see it. It doesn't suprise me \"Small Island\" was made into a \"Masterpiece Classic\" (next on my Netflix queue!), reading it feels like diving into a particularly satisfying \"Masterpiece Theater.\" Andrea Levy should get way more recognition Stateside! Maybe (but don't hold your breath) her latest novel \"Long Song\" being longlisted for the Booker will help this happen. ...more Around the world = Jamaica. Levy weaves together the stories of four characters, each a part of a forgotten story of post-war Britain and the Commonwealth. Hortense, a product of a colonial upbringing where her light skin and education set her above other Jamaicans; Gilbert, a former RAF serviceman returned to England on the Empire Windrush; Queenie, surviving by any means possible on the home front, and then as a woman on her own in post-war London; and Bernard, ignorant and narrow-minded, fight Around the world = Jamaica. Levy weaves together the stories of four characters, each a part of a forgotten story of post-war Britain and the Commonwealth. Hortense, a product of a colonial upbringing where her light skin and education set her above other Jamaicans; Gilbert, a former RAF serviceman returned to England on the Empire Windrush; Queenie, surviving by any means possible on the home front, and then as a woman on her own in post-war London; and Bernard, ignorant and narrow-minded, fighting on in the forgotten war in Burma and in the Indian Mutiny. The characters are well-developed, and Levy is not afraid to make her creations unlike-able. Bernard, in particular, is unpleasant, and unpalatable to reader as a depiction of the sly, subtle racism espoused by individuals in Britain at the time (unlike the shockingly depicted, state-endorsed, overt racism of Jim Crow USA). Hortense, a narrow-minded snob, is a foil to show the class-system that pervades Britain and the Empire, and the prejudices she holds are near as divisive as those of Bernard. However, both are presented with enough of their back-story to give the reader an understanding of how their attitudes and bigotries are developed. The Small Island of the title, is both Jamaica, too small for Gilbert and his comrades after spending the war overseas, and Britain, once the centre of the Empire and 'mother country', where the ideals of both the white population and black immigrants are crushed through their experiences. Small Island doesn't give its characters a happy ending, but instead offers them hope. ...more Told in alternating narratives by four persons in both 1948 London and the time \u2018before\u2019, this is a story of race, colonialism, imperialism, sexuality and war. The story is about Hortense and her husband Gilbert from Jamaica who move to London and about Queenie Bligh and her husband Bernard, a white couple in London. Bernard goes off to war so Queenie takes in boarders, mostly black, including Gilbert. Gilbert, a Jamaican who joined the RAF to defend the mother country during WWII brings over hi Told in alternating narratives by four persons in both 1948 London and the time \u2018before\u2019, this is a story of race, colonialism, imperialism, sexuality and war. The story is about Hortense and her husband Gilbert from Jamaica who move to London and about Queenie Bligh and her husband Bernard, a white couple in London. Bernard goes off to war so Queenie takes in boarders, mostly black, including Gilbert. Gilbert, a Jamaican who joined the RAF to defend the mother country during WWII brings over his young wife Hortense. Hortense is a prim and proper, somewhat na\u00efve school teacher who hasn\u2019t experienced racism until she moves to the UK and is unable to find work as a teacher as her qualifications aren\u2019t recognised. Both Hortense and Gilbert came to the UK with dreams of what the mother country would be and are shocked to find a bombed out, shabby London. Queenie stands out among her neighbours for her lack of racism and her willingness to stand up to bigotry, even when it is her own husband. I read this book for my 21st century book club and genuinely loved it. I tended to skim through the Bernard sections but found Gilbert and Queenie\u2019s stories compelling. Would recommend this book widely. ...more This was a fascinating story - I haven't read anything before about the Jamaican immigration to Britain following WWII, and this book was both heartbreaking and almost comical in its story. My heart broke for Gilbert many times in reading about the way he was treated, especially since he was in the RAF and fought for the country. Hortense arriving in the U.K. brought a different light to the story: one that was unique, as she is expecting such a grand and proper country but arrives in one that i This was a fascinating story - I haven't read anything before about the Jamaican immigration to Britain following WWII, and this book was both heartbreaking and almost comical in its story. My heart broke for Gilbert many times in reading about the way he was treated, especially since he was in the RAF and fought for the country. Hortense arriving in the U.K. brought a different light to the story: one that was unique, as she is expecting such a grand and proper country but arrives in one that is still recovering from a war, and in obvious shambles. She was my favourite character. I had such sympathy for her, as she experienced prejudice without understanding the reason for it, but her shock for the lack of propriety found in England - from how her English was more proper to how she felt her coat was so much nicer than Queenie's. An issue I had with the book was the initial hopping between 1948 and \"before,\" - it made everything feel disjointed, especially in the beginning. Then again, I'm not sure there is a better way to tell a story that is based so much on events that happen before the present in the novel. It's also worth mentioning how wonderful the ending was. ...more England. 1948. The atmosphere is one of dilapidation as the country recovers from the effects of World War II. Many buildings and establishments have been destroyed and provisions have suffered as goods are barely rationed to the community. Multitudes of soldiers are also returning home to a devastated country, as well as a poor economy. However, to the residents of the Caribbean Islands, England is look upon as a land of promise and prosperity. Small Island is author Andrea Levy\u2019s critically ac England. 1948. The atmosphere is one of dilapidation as the country recovers from the effects of World War II. Many buildings and establishments have been destroyed and provisions have suffered as goods are barely rationed to the community. Multitudes of soldiers are also returning home to a devastated country, as well as a poor economy. However, to the residents of the Caribbean Islands, England is look upon as a land of promise and prosperity. Small Island is author Andrea Levy\u2019s critically acclaimed debut novel-turned-movie, which is a brilliant story of two couples whose lives are altered as they embark on disparate journeys that land them together in England. The coalition of these individuals, who each have different viewpoints and beliefs, brings to surface controversial issues within a polarizing country. Having prior familiarized myself with Levy\u2019s literary work in The Long Song, I was anticipating this novel to be full of rich dialogue and memorable characters, which she delivered quite efficaciously. The narrative switches between four main characters. The story opens with the narrative of Queenie, the spoiled native of England who was the daughter of a wealthy butcher. Queenie\u2019s audacious and outgoing nature is the complete opposite of her husband Bernard, with his austere and tenacious disposition and societal beliefs. When the dawn of the war intensifies, Bernard enlists in the Royal Air Force to fight for his country. Bernard is absent for years, with no word of his whereabouts nor his wellbeing. As a result, Queenie assumes that he was amongst the many casualties of the war, and is left to be the sole caretaker of Bernard\u2019s father and to earn a living independently. Queenie decides to open her expansive and painfully empty rooms to lodgers, mostly black foreigners who have also volunteered to fight in the war. One of her residents is Gilbert Joseph, the witty and ambitious native of Jamaica and veteran of the Royal Air Force, whose struggle to obtain the life of prosperity thought to exist in England, leads him to endure heartless racial antics. After much effort, Gilbert secures employment and sends for his wife in Jamaica. Hortense arrives with an air of arrogance, as she thinks herself privileged to be well mannered and impeccably educated. She carries with her the unrealistic views that were taught to her while residing in the Caribbean Islands. Moreover, Hortense is markedly disappointed to find that she is just another unwanted black figure in a desolate country. Small Island is a thought-provoking tale, with aspects of witty dialogue addressing race, love, and forgiveness. Author Levy\u2019s profound way of composing the characters and dialogue creates a prolifically memorable tale. I highly recommend this book to others. ...more This marvellous book that has sat in the to-read for far too long (almost 10 years, it\u2019s a big to-read pile). Its unpacking of the post-war experience and the lives of West Indies migrants balances both the subtleties of change and dislocation, of expectation and disappointment, and the blatant confrontations with Britain\u2019s presumptions of its standing (and Briton\u2019s presumptions of theirs). The characters are well drawn, thoroughly plausible and engaging. Levy\u2019s presentation of the story through This marvellous book that has sat in the to-read for far too long (almost 10 years, it\u2019s a big to-read pile). Its unpacking of the post-war experience and the lives of West Indies migrants balances both the subtleties of change and dislocation, of expectation and disappointment, and the blatant confrontations with Britain\u2019s presumptions of its standing (and Briton\u2019s presumptions of theirs). The characters are well drawn, thoroughly plausible and engaging. Levy\u2019s presentation of the story through the voices of the four principal protagonists shows her control of her craft. [Beware, some spoilers follow] Gilbert and Hortense\u2019s marriage of convenience: he needed money, she wanted to get to Britain provides one strand of tensions at the centre of the narrative. Hortense has high expectations and barely knows Gilbert; Gilbert\u2019s disappointment at his post-war status (no longer in the airforce, not that his status in the forces was all that great) is mitigated by his fa\u00e7ade of realism derived from experience. Queenie, their landlady, confronts the uncertainty of an absent, presumed dead husband, the need to stay financially afloat in post-war turmoil, the racism of her neighbours at having the temerity to take in West Indies boarders. These three voices dominate the novel, their back stories, their hopes, goals, expectations and ambitions confront the limitations of race, class and Britain\u2019s misplaced assuredness. Bernard\u2019s return (absent, with the presumption of death misplaced) disrupts these voices just as they seem to be becoming settled, as does his overt racism so at odds with Queenie\u2019s liberal outlook alongside her profound and in the end heart-wrenching realism about the limits of that liberalism (even though her actions have a slightly forced sense of a deus ex machina solution to a profound problem). Bernard is likely to shake readers out of any complancency that might be developing, in quite an abrupt and unsettling manner and in doing so brings us back to the tensions and dangers at the core of the novel in an intense and intimate manner. Most impressive is Levy\u2019s lightness of touch in dealing with these big issues of war, the end of empire, the banalities of Britain\u2019s racism and the expectations of a post-war return to a previous gender order and racial hierarchy. The book has garnered deserved praise from many quarters: it sat on the shelf for years and once I started could hardly put it down. Highly recommended. ...more Set against the backdrop of World War 2 and its immediate aftermath, this is a story with universal appeal. Two couples \u2013 the Jamaicans Hortense and Gilbert Joseph and the British Queenie and Bernard Bligh \u2013 find their way in circumstances neither ever considered. They share a desire to better themselves, but fail to recognize their common goals and instead focus on their differences. Queenie grabbed at a chance to leave her life on a farm and hastily married a boring banker, but her husband nev Set against the backdrop of World War 2 and its immediate aftermath, this is a story with universal appeal. Two couples \u2013 the Jamaicans Hortense and Gilbert Joseph and the British Queenie and Bernard Bligh \u2013 find their way in circumstances neither ever considered. They share a desire to better themselves, but fail to recognize their common goals and instead focus on their differences. Queenie grabbed at a chance to leave her life on a farm and hastily married a boring banker, but her husband never returned from the war and now she is alone and friendless in a house that she cannot maintain. Hortense, schooled in proper manners and with expectations of refined living, is shocked at the sordidness of the post-war London home in which she and Gilbert are lodgers, and at the hostility that many Britons display to these immigrants. The sudden return of Bernard Bligh will spark the turn of events leading to the climax. Levy has written a gem of a novel that explores every human emotion, but ends with a feeling of hope. The dialogue is wonderful, including just enough colloquial expression to really bring the characters to life. I felt for these wounded people and celebrated their triumphs, however small. The four central characters take turns narrating, giving us insight into their expectations, strengths and failings. Levy also has the action alternate between Jamaica and England; the novel also goes back and forth in time, building suspense and leading to an ending that is as inevitable as it is unexpected. ...more Sometimes you come across a book that makes you uncomfortable. Uncomfortable because it depicts our world the way it was ... the way is still is ... and you wish it wasn't the case. That's how I feel about Small Island . Hortense's story was probably the weakest of the four stories; or maybe I just hadn't gotten into the groove of the writing yet. That said, I certainly was drawn into Gilbert and Queenie's stories (Bernard's too - but the other two were the stronger of the four in my opinion). I l Sometimes you come across a book that makes you uncomfortable. Uncomfortable because it depicts our world the way it was ... the way is still is ... and you wish it wasn't the case. That's how I feel about Small Island . Hortense's story was probably the weakest of the four stories; or maybe I just hadn't gotten into the groove of the writing yet. That said, I certainly was drawn into Gilbert and Queenie's stories (Bernard's too - but the other two were the stronger of the four in my opinion). I loved how Levy was able to take us from post war London to pre-war, WWII Jamaica and London and back again, seemingly seamlessly. She perfectly demonstrated the tension, hatred, anger, and disappointment suffered by people. She was able to bring racism to life in a very real manner: the disbelief Gilbert felt when he was asked to go to the back of the theatre. The snobbery that Hortense projected to Gilbert and everyone she met - the hurt, anger and astonishment she felt when she was told she wasn't allowed to teach in England. This is a book with a punch. It's not meant to say what is right or wrong, it simply tells us what was. and perhaps what still is... Well written and powerful. Well worth taking the time to \"get into the groove of the writing\". ...more Gostei imenso da hist\u00f3ria e das personagens, se bem que havia partes em que uma pessoa s\u00f3 deseja dar uma estalada e dizer \u00abTem mas \u00e9 ju\u00edzo\u00bb ao Bernard.<---C>Andrea Levy</---C>", "Title": "Small Island"},
