{"Comments": "Horrible. Chelsea Lately is a great show, and <---A>Chelsea Handler</---A> a talented comedian.<---F> But this book is bad </---F>. A colossal disappointment. The whole crass \u201cshock value\u201d thing wears thin really quickly. I might have laughed a couple of times, but not enough to warrant even a second star. Cutting edge, funny sexy stories. Having seen Chelsea doing stand up and on Girls Behaving Badly, I was anxious to see how her wicked sarcastic wit would translate into text. It's fantastic! A seriously gifted writer, who combines funny and raunchy better than any woman. I mean wild, hilarious and uninhibited story telling. And it's not just the sheer ridiculous situations she encounters. She reflects about her mindless journeys and the meaning of life in such an amusing,<---M> self-deprecating cynical Cutting edge</---M>, funny sexy stories. Having seen Chelsea doing stand up and on Girls Behaving Badly, I was anxious to see how her wicked sarcastic wit would translate into text. It's fantastic! A seriously gifted writer, who combines funny and raunchy better than any woman. I mean wild, hilarious and uninhibited story telling. And it's not just the sheer ridiculous situations she encounters. She reflects about her mindless journeys and the meaning of life in such an amusing, self-deprecating cynical manner. It\u2019s filled with funny anecdotes. She just has that trashy comedienne's gift of saying everything we think about but are afraid to say. And she manages to share absolutely horrifying situations and somehow make them hysterical! There are some hilarious and uncomfortable family situations. Her father was quite the provider of wisdom, selling used junkyard cars out of their front yard, while making inappropriate sexual innuendos towards his daughters. She shares some really funny embarrassing youth debacles and misadventures, and of course her bizarre sexual encounters with some serious screw ups. My favorite of Chelsea's embarrassing re-collections: her preposterous fake celebrity elementary school tale, a LOL birthday party for a friendless girl full of re-gifting, pretending to be honeymooning with her father in order to upgrade to first class. The Mini-Me and Prison Break chapters are just classics. Frankly if she wasn't successful, she may have ended up a basket case. If you are sensitive or quick to take offense, I would pass on this one. If you have a repressed wild side, you'll dive in headfirst and relish her antics and live vicariously through them. Also, if you like reading funny out of control drinking and sex stories, I'm half-way through Chelsea's other book ... My Horizontal Life: A Collection of One-Night Stands and it's great. I also recommend reading the guy\u2019s version of this book. Wild steamy Penthouse stories, VIP partying, and it's even funnier than Chelsea's stuff. High Heels and Dirty Deals - Globetrotting Tales of Debauchery from a Binge-drinking Nymphomaniac ...more Admittedly, I don't usually read books like this, but found <+++>Are You There, Vodka? It's Me, Chelsea</+++> to be an overall entertaining collection. The first four essays were, far and away, the 'best' in the collection. Until reading this book, I had no familiarity with Handler. Totally underwhelming and inconsistently hilarious. Admittedly, the parts that were funny really were fantastic. However, Chelsea Handler glosses over and re-arranges life events in order to align them just so - and thusly make Admittedly, I don't usually read books like this, but found <+++>Are You There, Vodka? It's Me, Chelsea</+++> to be an overall entertaining collection. The first four essays were, far and away, the 'best' in the collection. Until reading this book, I had no familiarity with Handler. Totally underwhelming and inconsistently hilarious. Admittedly, the parts that were funny really were fantastic. However, Chelsea Handler glosses over and re-arranges life events in order to align them just so - and thusly make whatever anecdote she's recounting work like one of her performance jokes. Everything works just a little too well for these to be legitimate essays. Rather, the book reads like an ongoing stand-up routine with more detail added. Overall, it's a good effort: Handler isn't the best writer (<---B>and is occasionally downright dismal</---B>), but her stories are generally amusing. ...more Ah Chelsea, Hilarious. Read this on the plane ride back from atlanta. She never disappoints and I'm certain i annoyed rows 18 and 20 of Airtran Flight 176, and possibly rows 17 and 21 at certain points in the book with my laughter. Would recommend it to anyone :) Buhwahahaha! This woman is easily the funniest woman in the entertainment industry. Yes, she's rude and crude, and definitely not for the prude. But I just can't help it. I love her. She brings out the evil maniacal laugh in me, if case you didn't already notice. Since her other book is entitled \"My Horizontal Life : A Collection of One-Night Stands\", you can be fairly certain this book will also include sexual content as well as a lot of adult language. So if those make you uncomfortable, don't Buhwahahaha! This woman is easily the funniest woman in the entertainment industry. Yes, she's rude and crude, and definitely not for the prude. But I just can't help it. I love her. She brings out the evil maniacal laugh in me, if case you didn't already notice. Since her other book is entitled \"My Horizontal Life : A Collection of One-Night Stands\", you can be fairly certain this book will also include sexual content as well as a lot of adult language. So if those make you uncomfortable, don't read this. At least not while others of a prudish nature are around. She does have a deeply dark sense of humor. It seems to be all in good fun, though not necessarily good taste. I like to believe she's a softie at heart, just with a hard exterior. Nevertheless, she's entertaining to say the least. I really recommend listening to the audio book. A sheet of paper just cannot capture the brilliance of her wit and sarcasm. Her voice can be slightly overwhelming at times, but if your feeling down, her stories will bring you, if nothing else, hilarity. What are you going to do tonight, Chelsea Handler? Same thing she does every night - Try to take over the world. The entertainment world at least. *Evil laugh* For those of you lucky enough to afford cable television (I resort to the Internet, it's cheaper), her show is just as disturbing and just as funny. ...more This sort of book and the positive outpouring for it make me really feel like I must have missed the boat somewhere in the last couple decades of culture or something. Maybe it is that I have never seen Handler's stand-up and came to this book expecting something a little bit different. Perhaps Handler's shtick is that she is merely making a tongue-in-cheek imitation of the cliche \"mean girl\" that we all know from our high school days. But without being let in on the charade, I found connecting This sort of book and the positive outpouring for it make me really feel like I must have missed the boat somewhere in the last couple decades of culture or something. Maybe it is that I have never seen Handler's stand-up and came to this book expecting something a little bit different. Perhaps Handler's shtick is that she is merely making a tongue-in-cheek imitation of the cliche \"mean girl\" that we all know from our high school days. But without being let in on the charade, I found connecting with Handler throughout the book to be basically impossible. The humor mostly seems to consist of criticizing everyone in her family, her circle of friends, and anyone else she meets in her life - most typically in a way that falls a tad short of catty, landing mostly in the realm of bitchy. Admittedly, Handler does trot out a few story moments that provoked grins and the occasional laugh. However, the pacing and 'convenience' of most stories stretched my credulity well beyond my suspended disbelief - typically just making me feel bad for her parents/exes/waiter/friends or whomever that she happened to be interacting with at the moment in the story. Its clear that her escapades are wildly fabricated in places where the truth might have been more banal or required even a fleeting moment of self-reflection. Furthermore, despite all of the tweaking, many of the stories were pretty boring, just tossing in blunt comments and sailor-speak doesn't turn a dull day out into comedic gold. I had heard this book likened to some of Sedaris' essays, but find that the comparison to be wildly off-target. Sedaris brings a sort of quiet thoughtfulness to his humor, and is most frequently the target of his own jokes. Handler, instead, brings a sort of crass entitlement to her judgments, too good for even those she is telling her story to. ...more This book was just as much fun as Handler's first but possibly darker. Not that she got meaner or grosser but in this book I was often wondering, since for the most part, Handler does seem to actually wish to not overtly hurt anyone's feelings, how obvious it was to the people discussed that they were subjects. Some of them seemed to deserve it but nonetheless, this newer book seemed meaner. Handler has fantastic stories- I don't care if she has made them all up. I think her books are being mark This book was just as much fun as Handler's first but possibly darker. Not that she got meaner or grosser but in this book I was often wondering, since for the most part, Handler does seem to actually wish to not overtly hurt anyone's feelings, how obvious it was to the people discussed that they were subjects. Some of them seemed to deserve it but nonetheless, this newer book seemed meaner. Handler has fantastic stories- I don't care if she has made them all up. I think her books are being marketed incorrectly- they look so trashy, especially this second one when in fact they don't read trashy. Not that Handler does not tell stories that reveal a wildness but they are good enough to not be marketed as trash. They stand well on their own. Without her picture on the cover... ...more Okay, I sent this back to the library...half way through. It started to collect dust and when it was reading time, I just didn't want to pick it up. The library was begging for it back and I figured after 7 weeks, I wasn't going to finish it. I got this book because Chelsea's show is funny and sometimes outrageous. I wanted to know more about her, but it is so couched in comedy(what did I expect, right?) that it's mildly disappointing. I liked the book (at least the half I read), it's funny, how Okay, I sent this back to the library...half way through. It started to collect dust and when it was reading time, I just didn't want to pick it up. The library was begging for it back and I figured after 7 weeks, I wasn't going to finish it. I got this book because Chelsea's show is funny and sometimes outrageous. I wanted to know more about her, but it is so couched in comedy(what did I expect, right?) that it's mildly disappointing. I liked the book (at least the half I read), it's funny, however, I am wondering where comedy ends and truth begins. ...more I\u2019d read quite a few 5-star reviews of this book and when, after the first chapter, it didn\u2019t immediately grab me, I decided I would be contrary and choose to hate it. Luckily, I found a lot more to like beyond the first chapter, so I can put aside my contrarian impulses and say I found it an enjoyable read. Vodka takes the form of a series of anecdotes from Handler\u2019s life, encompassing friendships, relationships and, notably, alcohol. The first chapter, in which a 9-year-old Chelsea tells her en I\u2019d read quite a few 5-star reviews of this book and when, after the first chapter, it didn\u2019t immediately grab me, I decided I would be contrary and choose to hate it. Luckily, I found a lot more to like beyond the first chapter, so I can put aside my contrarian impulses and say I found it an enjoyable read. Vodka takes the form of a series of anecdotes from Handler\u2019s life, encompassing friendships, relationships and, notably, alcohol. The first chapter, in which a 9-year-old Chelsea tells her entire school that she\u2019s negotiating a movie role in play Goldie Hawn\u2019s daughter on screen, sets the bar for Handler\u2019s dedication to lies that are more interesting than the truth. As a result, the reader can\u2019t quite begrudge the boldly-embroidered quality of Handler\u2019s stories. This isn\u2019t a truthful memoir: it\u2019s just a book that\u2019s supposed to make you laugh. And it is undeniably funny \u2013 in places. Personally, I found it less laugh-out-loud funny and more occasional-chuckle amusing. In fact, many of Handler\u2019s jokes fall woefully flat. More than once, I found myself staring at the page, thinking oh, that was a joke , rather than actually laughing. Never a good thing. (Handler is not the first stand-up comic whose jokes don\u2019t translate well between a dark bar and the cold, hard light of publishing.) Clearly intended to be provocative, the jokes also skate along the line between inappropriately-funny and kind-of-offensive. I couldn\u2019t always tell the degree to which Handler was being knowingly-outrageous and the degree to which she was revealing her prejudices and going for the easy, (often race-related) slur. I loved the chapter in which Chelsea, at the age of 12, starts a babysitting service for kids older than she is. Another chapter, involving a hideous birthday party where almost every present has been re-gifted, is also brilliant. However, there are plenty of other chapters that are less-than-stellar. At one point in the book, Handler rails against an acquaintance who tells overly-long stories that have no real point. Ironically, one can easily imagine this whole book being narrated by a slightly drunk woman at a party who loves to talk about herself, even though she\u2019s not quite as fascinating as she thinks she is. Vodka is, in some ways, an incredibly lazy book. It has no theme to tie it together and, as a result, some of the chapters are frustratingly diffuse. And finally, let\u2019s just say it: everyone thinks their family is ker-azy and hilarious \u2013 but, the fact is, our shared genes and experiences colour our judgment somewhat. By the final chapter, I was more than a little tired of Handler\u2019s \u201coddball\u201d (read: pretty unremarkable) father, who appears far too often in the book. While I enjoyed Vodka as I was reading it, I suspect it will find it rather forgettable. It\u2019s funny \u2013 but not quite funny enough. It\u2019s zeitgeisty \u2013 but doesn\u2019t quite find anything new to say. Pick it up for a quick, brain-free read, but don\u2019t expect too much substance. ...more Are you there Vodka? It\u2019s Me Chelsea Everything about this book is clever, starting with the title. To any Judy Blume fan, the parody is obvious, but even the less-informed reader (to whom I will now impart the title of Blume\u2019s novel, Are you there God? It\u2019s me, Margaret ) would find this title an apt one. Are you there Vodka? chronicles Chelsea Handler\u2019s sexual antics across all realms, from weddings, to summer flings, to family vacations, and while the men (and midgets\u2026) vary widely, one factor Are you there Vodka? It\u2019s Me Chelsea Everything about this book is clever, starting with the title. To any Judy Blume fan, the parody is obvious, but even the less-informed reader (to whom I will now impart the title of Blume\u2019s novel, Are you there God? It\u2019s me, Margaret ) would find this title an apt one. Are you there Vodka? chronicles Chelsea Handler\u2019s sexual antics across all realms, from weddings, to summer flings, to family vacations, and while the men (and midgets\u2026) vary widely, one factor remains constant: her drink of choice, vodka. Handler\u2019s writing is self-mocking, but in a comically arrogant sort of way. Her manner reminds me of the way men boast to one another in such hyperbolic terms that each man knows the other cannot be serious and probably, in fact, believe the exact opposite about themselves, compared to what they are saying. Still, their claims become increasingly more broad and bombastic, as if needing to declare, \u201cyes I did!\u201d and \u201cyes I am!\u201d Dry humor is the saving grace of this sort of comedic writing, because without it, Handler\u2019s tales would come off as absurd and callous. Readers would feel inclined to chastise her reprehensible behavior, because superficially, it truly is the way mothers most fear their daughters will act in their teens and twenties and even early thirties. Instead, Handler is witty and self-mocking enough to make you spend most of the book wondering how much of each story is true and how much she is over exaggerating for effect. This guessing game turns into the compounding \u201coh my god, no she didn\u2019t!\u201d reaction you experience when your girlfriend tells you about \u201cwhat a wild weekend she had.\u201d Except according to this book, Handler doesn\u2019t have wild weekends; she has a wild life . Blume fans, don\u2019t try this book unless you transitioned to at least the level of the Sweet Valley Twins series in later adolescence. Otherwise, you may suffer from painful finger-wagging and irrepressible groaning. Bridget Jones\u2019s Diary fans, read on. And try Handler\u2019s My Horizontal Life , too. Those in between\u2026read at your own risk. If you believe you may harbor puritan strains deep in your heart, I will warn you that you may not find Handler\u2019s humor funny. But if you have a repressed wild side, following Handler\u2019s antics is one of the best ways to live vicariously. ...more Before I say anything regarding my rating of this book, it needs to be said how much I love Chelsea Handler. I love Chelsea Lately, and I love her standup routines. She is a spunky, hilarious individual, and I have always admired her for that. I was really excited to read this book, because so many of my friends have enjoyed it and because I am a Chelsea enthusiast. Unfortunately, this book didn't do anything for me. Sure, the anecdotes were funny at times, but I think I would have received them Before I say anything regarding my rating of this book, it needs to be said how much I love Chelsea Handler. I love Chelsea Lately, and I love her standup routines. She is a spunky, hilarious individual, and I have always admired her for that. I was really excited to read this book, because so many of my friends have enjoyed it and because I am a Chelsea enthusiast. Unfortunately, this book didn't do anything for me. Sure, the anecdotes were funny at times, but I think I would have received them much better if they were presented strictly as stand up instead of in novel form. I was disappointed in the way she portrayed herself, mostly as an uncultured, ignorant, and dare I say \"bitch,\" when interacting with her peers, family, lovers, and acquaintances. I hope that she does not assume these qualities in reality and that she \"fluffed up\" her stories with these details in order to get a laugh out of the reader (which rarely happened for myself). I also found myself personally editing the book as I went through and read it. As a self-proclaimed grammar stickler, I tend to do this with most of everything that I read, but Ms. Handler's book made me tempted to mark the pages in red ink and hand it back to her, asking for a re-write. Did she seek out an editor? If so, he or she was a complete waste of money. I am still a huge fan of Chelsea Handler as a comedian, but I am not sure if I will ever read any of her other novels in the future. ...more I picked up this copy of Chelsea Handler\u2019s humor memoir because I thought the title was hilarious. The rest of the book did not disappoint. Handler is an LA-based stand-up comic who has written a collection of personal essays about random events from her life. In the first piece\u2014in which she convinces her entire grade school that she has been tapped to play Goldie Hawn's daughter in the non-existent Private Benjamin 2\u2014she comes across as so over the top I felt like I was reading more of a written I picked up this copy of Chelsea Handler\u2019s humor memoir because I thought the title was hilarious. The rest of the book did not disappoint. Handler is an LA-based stand-up comic who has written a collection of personal essays about random events from her life. In the first piece\u2014in which she convinces her entire grade school that she has been tapped to play Goldie Hawn's daughter in the non-existent Private Benjamin 2\u2014she comes across as so over the top I felt like I was reading more of a written stand-up routine than a series of factual events. But her stories are entertaining enough that I was more than happy to overlook whatever embellishments she may have added along the way. As one might expect from a stand-up comic, there is plenty of foul language, heavy drinking and frank sex talk in Handler's work, so it's not for the easily offended. There were also a few stories that skirted the line for me of what is actually funny\u2014her self-depreciating stories about things like doing hard time for stealing her sister's ID and being conned by her own mini-me were both fascinating and funny, but there were a few pieces in which the pain that is often lurking underneath the ridiculous overshadowed Handler's ability to make fun of it. Still, there were enough laugh-out-loud moments in this collection that I\u2019m glad I picked it up. ...more Chelsea Handler's uninhibited storytelling and vulgar sense of humor make for a fun read. She has a gift for storytelling that will keep you laughing through each unbelievable and sometimes embarrassing real-life journey. This book is full of good, inappropriate fun. If you offend easily, you probably should not read it. Otherwise, have a good laugh! What was I thinking when I put this book on my list of audios that I wanted my audioflix service to send me? Oh well, give it a try, I thought, as I slid the first disk into the proper slot in the minivan. Well, I'm glad that I still have my lightening reflexes and battle tested driving skills because I was careening down the interstate laughing out loud at this book while going 80 miles per hour (and you thought that driving while talking on the telephone was dangerous). Chelsea Handler picks s What was I thinking when I put this book on my list of audios that I wanted my audioflix service to send me? Oh well, give it a try, I thought, as I slid the first disk into the proper slot in the minivan. Well, I'm glad that I still have my lightening reflexes and battle tested driving skills because I was careening down the interstate laughing out loud at this book while going 80 miles per hour (and you thought that driving while talking on the telephone was dangerous). Chelsea Handler picks stories from her family, relationships, childhood, and career for this group of hysterical essays. The best part was that she read this book so I didn't even have to imagine hearing the stories in her voice. Now a word of caution: if you have never seen her television show, Chelsea Handler Lately, on the Comedy Channel, please watch it a time a or two before reading or listening to this book. On a scale of 1 to 10, she can hit a 12 on language and references to sex, drinking, and recreational drugs. But, apparently, this didn't faze a woman of my quality. Now I'm trying to decide if I want to risk reading My Horizontal Life--a series of essays about her one-night stands in her youth. Doesn't she know that we are still trying to pretend to our parents that our one-night stands never happened? But, if you like ribald humor, and I do, I recommend this book to you. Except Hope, please don't read this. I have WAY too much respect for you to subject you to this book. It's bad enough that you have to put up with me on a daily basis. Oh, and Leslie, don't read this. I can just see you getting that look on your face that I so enjoy when I speak or act inappropriately. ...more This woman deserves the nobel prize. It's just not fair that we all don't have the talent and intelligence to make everyone laugh this hard for 2 hours straight. The world would be a better place. I couldn't put it down. My favorite story was her midget fetish- oh wait sorry, \"healthy obsession\". Dude that's just so far over the line that she erased the line. Perfect mindless vacation read with plenty of laugh out loud moments. Yes please. I started this because I need something to laugh at. I was sitting at my desk this morning just laughing out loud and generally annoying my co-workers. They're just jealous that I can listen to my ipod in the morning while they have to count money. So far my favorite line of hers is something like, \"Today I got my first DWI. I've only had one, but I don't want to rule anything out.\" Not that DWIs are funny. Well, in this case, they are. I'm a bad person. ********* This book is frigging am Yes please. I started this because I need something to laugh at. I was sitting at my desk this morning just laughing out loud and generally annoying my co-workers. They're just jealous that I can listen to my ipod in the morning while they have to count money. So far my favorite line of hers is something like, \"Today I got my first DWI. I've only had one, but I don't want to rule anything out.\" Not that DWIs are funny. Well, in this case, they are. I'm a bad person. ********* This book is frigging amazing. I needed to laugh SO BADLY and this was just the right medicine. Don't even bother buying it in book form. Pick up the audio. Her delivery is unaffected--absolutely perfect. Oh my god the stories she tells. She is vicious in a way I can only hope to be some day. I bow down to Chelsea Handler. ********** May 25, 2009--listened to this again on the plane after reading 'My Horizontal Life.' Second time around, she's still got it! I love the story about her massage in with 'Memoirs of a Geisha' and 'Tons of Fun.' God, so funny. ...more I really enjoy Chesea Handler's books. Granted, she has some timeline issues (as a pop culture expert, I just grate my teeth and move on when shows/movies/what-have-you are referenced well before their time), and whoever is proofing her books REALLY needs to do some punctuation checks. That being said, she is so unpretentious and raw, which is a nice change from the uber-polished essays of late. She's not trying to be anything but funny, and really, that's refreshing. I think her next book shoul I really enjoy Chesea Handler's books. Granted, she has some timeline issues (as a pop culture expert, I just grate my teeth and move on when shows/movies/what-have-you are referenced well before their time), and whoever is proofing her books REALLY needs to do some punctuation checks. That being said, she is so unpretentious and raw, which is a nice change from the uber-polished essays of late. She's not trying to be anything but funny, and really, that's refreshing. I think her next book should deal exclusively with her father, because those are the essays that really shine - they're laugh out loud knee slappers that I'll read again and again. Even if you don't like the rest of the book, the last essay about her trip to Costa Rica with Papa Handler and a friend and her mother is worth a stand-alone read. ...more Chelsea Handler is... raucous. That's the best term I have for her. She's just too much. Her stories can be hilarious, but they seem ridiculous, over the top, try-hard. It's like she was like \"What's funny? I know, vaginas! Well I'll dye mine purple, and then make it burp the national anthem... in pig latin! That's SUPER-funny!\" Sure... I guess. I laughed, but I think things are funnier when they are less LOOK-AT-ME, more of a dry, sarcastic wit. There was that too, but... *shrug* Some of her sto Chelsea Handler is... raucous. That's the best term I have for her. She's just too much. Her stories can be hilarious, but they seem ridiculous, over the top, try-hard. It's like she was like \"What's funny? I know, vaginas! Well I'll dye mine purple, and then make it burp the national anthem... in pig latin! That's SUPER-funny!\" Sure... I guess. I laughed, but I think things are funnier when they are less LOOK-AT-ME, more of a dry, sarcastic wit. There was that too, but... *shrug* Some of her stories just seem ridiculous, especially the ones about her as a kid, and the ones with her family. And sometimes it just seemed... mean-spirited at times too. All meant in jest, I'm sure. Anyway, there were some laugh out loud moments for me, so this gets a 3. ...more I enjoyed Chelsea Handler's first book, My Horizontal Life. It was self-deprecatingly funny, and I imagined that a lot of the things that happened in the book actually happened to Ms. Handler. Her new book is over-the-top and unflattering to her family. She could learn something from David Sedaris and other humorist writers about how to write about one's family and life with some wit and subtlety. And jokes about race and abortion are just not my cup of tea. What a disappointment. This is the funniest book I have listened to in a really long time. To say Handler has a funny bone is putting it mildly. I was cracking up so hard and loud people glared at me. Seriously, glared. Handler has taken bits of her life or someone's life and made an amazing story out of it. I only wish I had her other books now. Alas, I'm on that eternal hold list at the library. If you need a good laugh I would definitely recommend Handler! Living in a vacuum I had no clue who Chelsae handler was. A friend recommended the book but I wasn't that impressed. Stand-up comedy is very difficult to translate into essay form, and obviously it helps to be a fan of the comedian first. Since I'm totally unfamiliar with Handler, that may account for how underwhelmed I am by her book. It seems most Goodreads reviewers loved this book in particular, and Chelsea Handler in general, but I agree with another one-star reviewer who said: \"But without being let in on the charade, I found connecting with Handler throughout the book to be basically impossible.\" It's n Stand-up comedy is very difficult to translate into essay form, and obviously it helps to be a fan of the comedian first. Since I'm totally unfamiliar with Handler, that may account for how underwhelmed I am by her book. It seems most Goodreads reviewers loved this book in particular, and Chelsea Handler in general, but I agree with another one-star reviewer who said: \"But without being let in on the charade, I found connecting with Handler throughout the book to be basically impossible.\" It's not that I'm offended by crass in the least, and I enjoy the entertainment value of Crazy People Theater. I just don't get what her shtick is. Being an older version of the mean, bitchy, shallow, self-absorbed high-school girl we all loved to hate? A young, blond, female Archie Bunker? A wanna-be Kathy Griffin (whom I do find hilarious)? Into shock value alone for it's own sake? Whatever it is, maybe a blurb here and there on a stand-up show would result in a laugh, but in book form there's just not enough here to sustain a whole chapter, much less an entire collection of chapters. (I did finish the whole thing to give it a fair shot since it's a pick for one of my book clubs.) Handler also relies on the classic My Crazy Family topic, but again, I can think of many others who make far better use of this common source of comedy. Christopher Titus' \"Norman Rockwell is Bleeding\" and Brett Butler's \"The Child Ain't Right\" are two of my top five favorite comedy routines ever, and in this book Handler doesn't even come close. As for the writing itself, I didn't find it to be witty, subtly complex, gifted, fresh, or any of the other adjectives used by publishers and other reviewers. I think comedic writing of this style is very hard to do well, and this collection simply can't hold a candle to others like Jill Connor Browne's first Sweet Potato Queen book. Browne totally brings on the sass and crass, but does so in a way that is far more subtly sophisticated. Her common turns of phrase, the organization of the chapters, and the occasional poignant bit timed just right add depth to Browne's southern-fried-drunken-hilarity and far outshines Handler's randomly organized shallow-mean-girl thing. One thing I do like: the title. Gotta love the play on Judy Blume, and anyone who grew up with her books will appreciate it. ...more I'd really been looking forward to reading Are You There Vodka? It's Me Chelsea, saving it up for a day when I needed a laugh or three. Sadly it barely raised a smile. The narcisistic and self indulgent style of the essay's just didn't appeal, I prefer something a little more self deprecating. It's always refreshing to escape the PC police but Chelsea went overboard, tipping into contrived irreverence. Her midget obsession was disturbing rather than amusing. Poking fun at someone is not the same I'd really been looking forward to reading Are You There Vodka? It's Me Chelsea, saving it up for a day when I needed a laugh or three. Sadly it barely raised a smile. The narcisistic and self indulgent style of the essay's just didn't appeal, I prefer something a little more self deprecating. It's always refreshing to escape the PC police but Chelsea went overboard, tipping into contrived irreverence. Her midget obsession was disturbing rather than amusing. Poking fun at someone is not the same as humiliation and crudeness is not a substitute for sarcasm. I'd hoped for more wit and charm than weak humor and shallow opinion. I have My Horizontal Life: A Collection of One-Night Stands as well but based on this book I've just slid it down my TBR list a few notches. Are You There Vodka? It's Me, Chelsea is not totally irredeemable but not really for me. ...more The Good: I liked Are You There Vodka so much more than My Horizontal Life. I actually kind of get why people really like Chelsea Handler and are interested in her life and stories. This book didn't shy away from her sexuality, but rather just put its main focus on the ludicrous situations she gets herself into without a common theme. She comes across as very humorous in this collection and it may very well motivate me to read some of her other books. The Bad: You still have to take Handler with The Good: I liked Are You There Vodka so much more than My Horizontal Life. I actually kind of get why people really like Chelsea Handler and are interested in her life and stories. This book didn't shy away from her sexuality, but rather just put its main focus on the ludicrous situations she gets herself into without a common theme. She comes across as very humorous in this collection and it may very well motivate me to read some of her other books. The Bad: You still have to take Handler with a grain of salt. She's not anywhere near as self-important as in My Horizontal Life, but she definitely has a way about here that can and will rub people the wrong way, even when they're enjoying her stories. It may be her writing style, but either way, it deters from fully enjoying what she's telling you. ...more I had no idea what this book was about and had never heard of Chelsea Handler but was curious about the title which caught my eye. While she is witty and boasts some excellent repartee that elicited some laughs from me, that was not enough to redeem her vapid character and desire to entertain by shock value. My only question was whether people like her actually inhabit the same planet as I do. My better nature tells me that I should definitely not find Chelsea Handler as funny as I do. She's crude, mean-spirited and offensive, but... I couldn't help but laugh, and laugh often. Audio wasn't a great choice however; I think I would have liked this more if I could have digested it in smaller portions. Chelsea Handler is hilarious! Be prepared for drunken antics, vulgar stories and a ridiculous amount of laughs. Chelsea is unapologetic. She tells it like it is and isn't afraid to laugh at herself. If your sarcastic and an asshole this book is for you, I friggin loved it! Laughed non-stop I love Chelsea Handler. She doesn't try to be politically correct, she is bluntly if painfully honest, and she holds nothing back about herself. I laughed out loud, many times while reading the chapters about her life on dating, friends, and family. If you like Chelsea Handler and want a easy read that will make you laugh, pick this book up, pour yourself a drink and plan to laugh your ass off.<---C>Chelsea Handler</---C>", "Title": "Are You There, Vodka? It's Me, Chelsea"},
