{"Comments": "You know how it is when you are reading a \"mystery\" and you know who the bad guy is the moment you meet them, but the good guys can't see it - ever?! It's so frustrating,<---M> and frankly</---M>, I've had my moments of wondering about the intelligence level of all of these people.. It was so freaking obvious!! Maybe it's the New Jersey water or something. If you're born in Jersey, you know how to rise to a challenge.<---F> Bring on the Mob</---F>. Bring on bad air. Bring on taxes and obesity, diabetes, heart disease, an You know how it is when you are reading a \"mystery\" and you know who the bad guy is the moment you meet them, but the good guys can't see it - ever?! It's so frustrating, and frankly, I've had my moments of wondering about the intelligence level of all of these people.. It was so freaking obvious!! Maybe it's the New Jersey water or something. If you're born in Jersey, you know how to rise to a challenge. Bring on the Mob. Bring on bad air. Bring on taxes and obesity, diabetes, heart disease, and macaroni at every meal. Nothing defeats us in Jersey. Except for the most obvious serial killer in Jersey. I mean, this guy practically yelled \"It's ME!\" at the top of his lungs and they still didn't get it. Maybe it's all the macaroni. All those carbs will make you lethargic. Too bad they don't help you understand how to get a clue! So, Stephanie has to find a guy who skipped out on his bond, along with kidnapping a little dog. She also seems to have a serial killer fixated on her. The good news is that this case takes her, Lula, and Connie to Las Vegas. Lula in Las Vegas is something I want to experience. She's good enough just being in Jersey. And, she's on a protein diet. Lula on a protein diet is really fun! \"This is the best diet. I can eat things on this diet that I haven't been able to eat in years.\" \"Like what?\" \"Like bacon.\" \"You always eat bacon.\" \"Yeah, but I feel guilty. It's the guilt that puts the weight on.\" Sure, that's what does it. The guilt. Lula's protein diet means she walks around with meat in her purse. She's a dog's best friend these days. Lula's the alpha of the pack With the serial killer stalking Stephanie, she has both Morelli and Ranger trying to keep her safe. Ranger has his men doing 24 hour bodyguard duty, but they keep meeting with unfortunate accidents. Not serial killer accidents - Stephanie accidents. I went outside to call Ranger. \"About Cal...\" I said. \"He's sort of out of commission.\" \"Used to be you destroyed my cars,\" Ranger said. \"Yeah, those were the good old days...\" Stephanie's developed quite the reputation. It was my mother. \"I heard you shot someone,\" she said. \"You've got to stop shooting people. Elaine Minardi's daughter never shoots anyone. Lucille Rice's daughter never shoots anyone. Why do I have to be the one to have a daughter who shoots people?\" I think Stephanie is going to give her mom a coronary before this series is over. The poor woman just wants a daughter who works at the button factory and marries a nice Italian man. Is that asking too much? So, this book was more fun than the last one and has all of the crazy antics, awesome side characters, and insane family stuff that I've come to expect from the series. I'm moving on to book 10 and I think I am starting to get a New Jersey accent at this point. I've also been thinking my hair is a bit too flat. Needs some poofing up! ...more Nine, I made it to Nine, but alas, I think this is where Stephanie and I must part ways, for the time being at least. Stephanie is once again, the object of some mad man\u2019s sadistic fantasies, but I must confess, I have grown tired of the crime solving scenarios. I\u2019m in this series for three things, Morelli, Ranger, and Lula, the ex ho turned file clerk/ purse welding mo fo. On these fronts, Evanovich did not disappoint. There were some steamy lines, some oogley eyes, and Lula has decided to turn Nine, I made it to Nine, but alas, I think this is where Stephanie and I must part ways, for the time being at least. Stephanie is once again, the object of some mad man\u2019s sadistic fantasies, but I must confess, I have grown tired of the crime solving scenarios. I\u2019m in this series for three things, Morelli, Ranger, and Lula, the ex ho turned file clerk/ purse welding mo fo. On these fronts, Evanovich did not disappoint. There were some steamy lines, some oogley eyes, and Lula has decided to turn herself into a supermodel. Naturally the later spurned a lot of laughs. However, it is with a heavy heart that I confess to the fact that Joe\u2019s commitment phobic come ons no longer send heat to my doodah, rather, they send heat to my head, as I am gritting my teeth. I\u2019m now pulling for Ranger, but as I see no future there, I feel aimless, just like the series is slowly becoming. At any rate, hi-lights include: 1.\tValerie has a baby and takes out Cal via water breakage 2.\tLula goes on an all meat diet (<---B>running in spandex with bacon</---B>) 3.\tStephanie gets a haircut and channels Don King ...more Okay, I think I have now overdosed on Plums and I seriously need a break. After reading nine of these books in fairly rapid succession, I now know what will happen before it happens. Stephanie will get some quirky FTA assigned to her and will make several inept attempts to capture him/her. Lula will be along for the ride, providing even MORE INEPT assistance but what she will provide is the comic relief of the stereotypical large black woman. Stephanie will have many sessions of hot, hot, toe-cu Okay, I think I have now overdosed on Plums and I seriously need a break. After reading nine of these books in fairly rapid succession, I now know what will happen before it happens. Stephanie will get some quirky FTA assigned to her and will make several inept attempts to capture him/her. Lula will be along for the ride, providing even MORE INEPT assistance but what she will provide is the comic relief of the stereotypical large black woman. Stephanie will have many sessions of hot, hot, toe-curling sex with <---C>Joe Morelli</---C> and will fantasize about toe-curling sex with Ranger. Every woman who comes in contact with him will imagine Ranger naked and fantasize about toe-curling sex with him, but Ranger only has eyes for Stephanie. Oh, yes, Stephanie will be stalked by some crazy, sadistic S.O.B. who will frighten her severely and put her friends and/or family in danger, but in the end it will all end happily with Stephanie and Joe ready to fall into bed. Again. Yep, I'm definitely ready for a break from this series. It's become too formulaic. I'll come back to it later when I've forgotten some of its twists and turns. ...more Although I had pretty much guessed the outcome of this book early on, it was still a great read. Any time the love triangle between Stephanie, Morelli and Ranger is focused on I am in heaven. And the more danger Stephanie is in, the better those tensions get. Plus this book had the added bonus of a trip to Vegas, which was fun to read about since I live there. Although there were no cars damaged by Steph's bad luck, Ranger's crew getting banged up by her natural ability to be in the middle of ha Although I had pretty much guessed the outcome of this book early on, it was still a great read. Any time the love triangle between Stephanie, Morelli and Ranger is focused on I am in heaven. And the more danger Stephanie is in, the better those tensions get. Plus this book had the added bonus of a trip to Vegas, which was fun to read about since I live there. Although there were no cars damaged by Steph's bad luck, Ranger's crew getting banged up by her natural ability to be in the middle of havok was highly amusing. Not as good as books 5-8 but still an excellent read. Can't wait for ten! ...more As all of the books in the Stephanie Plum series, to the Nines is filled with death, destruction and tingling cores. Stephanie finds herself knee-deep in body guards, Vegas slot machines, pooping dogs and slinging around ding-dongs. Morelli was invigorated by sex. An orgasm for Morelli was like taking a vitamin pill. The more orgasms he had, the sharper he got. I\u2019m the opposite. For me, an orgasm is like a shot of Valium. A night with Morelli and the next morning I\u2019m a big contented cow.<./i&gt As all of the books in the Stephanie Plum series, to the Nines is filled with death, destruction and tingling cores. Stephanie finds herself knee-deep in body guards, Vegas slot machines, pooping dogs and slinging around ding-dongs. Morelli was invigorated by sex. An orgasm for Morelli was like taking a vitamin pill. The more orgasms he had, the sharper he got. I\u2019m the opposite. For me, an orgasm is like a shot of Valium. A night with Morelli and the next morning I\u2019m a big contented cow.<./i> Lula goes on a special all meat diet. You can only imagine what she puts the team through when she\u2019s not fed regularly. Stephanie, Connie and Lula fly to Vegas to apprehend a man who is about to skip out on his Visa Bond. All fund and games, but when the airplane doesn\u2019t feed Lula, look out! I didn\u2019t know where Lula\u2019s energy came from. I\u2019d exhausted myself trying to stay calm while mentally maiming airport employees, screaming kids, and security personnel. Having some fun and catching a show in Vegas definitely will leave you laughing! I did not find this book as funny as the others, but this scene was pretty hilarious. All around us women were throwing room keys and panties onto the stage. And then from the corner of my eye I caught sight of Lula pitching a giant hot-pink satin thong at Tom Jones. It was the biggest thong I\u2019d ever seen. It was a King Kong thong. It hit Tim Jones square in the face. Wap! A list of suspects a mile long, Stephanie and the police struggle to figure out who the psychopathic stalker is. Pictures of bloody holes left in foreheads, and fresh flowers are left in an odd and disturbing way of courtship. To be honest, it took me longer to read this book the second time around. I wasn\u2019t nearly as excited. <---A>Janet Evanovich</---A> sets high standards for laughter and suspenseful killers and love triangles. This book is amazingly brilliant and the story itself is wonderful. <+++>To the Nines</+++> really didn\u2019t *do it* for me. I suppose I know how awesome the books following will be, and trudging through this book left little me wanting. The relationship shared between Stephanie, Morelli and Ranger only grows more complicated. I am still on the fence on which suitor I am crossing my fingers for. I recommend this book to those in need of an interesting mystery filled with fun female adventures. Book contains mild sexual scenes and mild to moderate violence. ...more I liked this book because I'm a Stephanie Plum fan but the only thing stopping me from giving my customary 4 stars is that this book seemed to be a little thin on plot. It had a good premise but to me it sort of petered out. This one of the books where I knew who dunnit before Steph did. I also was caught between liking and getting really bored of the whole Ranger/Morelli think. I don't think she should have her cake and eat it too and I think the character is built to believe that too but it's I liked this book because I'm a Stephanie Plum fan but the only thing stopping me from giving my customary 4 stars is that this book seemed to be a little thin on plot. It had a good premise but to me it sort of petered out. This one of the books where I knew who dunnit before Steph did. I also was caught between liking and getting really bored of the whole Ranger/Morelli think. I don't think she should have her cake and eat it too and I think the character is built to believe that too but it's also obvious that she's still emotionally screwed from her past marriage to Dickie. So, I get it and like I said - there are times where I completely dig the whole tension between Ranger and Steph and Steph and Morelli and Ranger and Morelli. Steph said it best when she compared Morelli's relationship with Terry Gilman to her relationship to Ranger. I just hope Morelli hasn't (at least recently because we know his past)gotten as close to Terry as Stephanie has gotten to Ranger. Although that may shake Steph up. Anyway, I liked the idea of the webmaster/killing game and I like how Stephanie handled herself in this book professionally. She's getting a bit better at her job. I thought that as soon as she said she felt naked without her hardware. I don't expect her to love guns but I would expect her to tolerate them enough to use them every once in awhile. I love Grandma Bella now. She's a friggin' nutcase. Valerie is also another nutter-butter...I particularly enjoyed the scene where her water broke :P I love Joe and Steph together but I wish that he would grow up a bit too. I understand his ire with Ranger's closeness and I thought Steph's jealousy was equally hilarious but I also think that I can't wait until matters are settled once and for all. ...more Maybe best Stephanie Plum yet in 9-book series! We've read all the author's books about Trenton-based bounty hunter Plum, and had feared we were tired of them when in \"Seven\" and \"Eight\" the stories seemed weak and the humor forced. \"Nines\" corrects that with a real pleaser -- plenty of natural humor, an almost gripping plot putting Steph in real danger, and lots of sexual tension with Ranger and Morelli. The other regulars -- Bob the dog, Grandma Mazur, Vinny, the parents, sister Valerie (and f Maybe best Stephanie Plum yet in 9-book series! We've read all the author's books about Trenton-based bounty hunter Plum, and had feared we were tired of them when in \"Seven\" and \"Eight\" the stories seemed weak and the humor forced. \"Nines\" corrects that with a real pleaser -- plenty of natural humor, an almost gripping plot putting Steph in real danger, and lots of sexual tension with Ranger and Morelli. The other regulars -- Bob the dog, Grandma Mazur, Vinny, the parents, sister Valerie (and father-to-be Kloughn) -- especially fellow \"helper\" Lulu, whose dieting efforts in the story were outrageously funny, contributed to the good humor we had come to expect from the earlier books. After an opening scene in which Stephanie captures a greased up \"skipper\", her hunt for a fellow named Singh, secured by a visa bond (something we learned about in this book), caught her and Ranger in a gruesome computer fantasy game gone bad: where the losers not merely failed to proceed in the game but got killed for their sub-par efforts. Soon enough, Plum herself becomes the prize in this game of hunt or be hunted. While this series is not particularly designed to create suspense, this one rated up there close to the serial killer novels of John Sandford. Evanovich even managed to work in some subtle relationship and trust commentary regarding close colleagues of the opposite gender, involving separately both Steph and her current roommate Morelli. So -- not just a good beach book, but Plum back in her finest with an honest to goodness whodunit, with the crazy funny cast of supporting characters all in good form. Enjoy! ...more Originally on my book blog! I really did not think that these books could get any funnier, but this would almost killed me. I'm not sure if I read this when I was sleep deprived (I did) or if it's really just that funny (it is) but I could not contain my laughter for very long. Every part of this book, the humor, the mystery, and the romance, came together perfectly to make a seriously fabulous book. This book had some of the funniest material I've seen in a book. When Lula wasn't talking about h Originally on my book blog! I really did not think that these books could get any funnier, but this would almost killed me. I'm not sure if I read this when I was sleep deprived (I did) or if it's really just that funny (it is) but I could not contain my laughter for very long. Every part of this book, the humor, the mystery, and the romance, came together perfectly to make a seriously fabulous book. This book had some of the funniest material I've seen in a book. When Lula wasn't talking about her \"diet\" (a no carb diet, so she decided she would eat meat 24/7), she was losing her luggage on the way to Vegas. When she wasn't doing either of these, Stephanie was going through Ranger's employees like she usually does with his cars. I didn't go a full five pages without finding something hilarious. It was the best workout I've had in months, so thank you Janet! After going from a very serious and heavy Alex Cross novel, going to a hilarious and clueless Stephanie Plum novel was just what I needed. The mystery was a great plot and kept the book going smoothly. Most of her books don't have a seriously intense part but this one had a scene where I was on the edge of my seat and trying to breathe (and failing). It was interesting and fun and unique. There was a lot more mystery in this one than others because she actually had to search for the guy instead of just try to pick him up at home. Ranger Ranger Ranger Ranger Ranger. Oh you didn't ask me who I like more? Well it's Ranger, in case you ever want to. I ship Ranger and Stephanie forever. If only he was \"marriage type\" but I digress. Stephanie is somewhat dating Joe in this book while also spending some quality time with Ranger. Nine books in and she still hasn't picked one of them. Neither of them are really marriage material at this moment, much to Stephanie's mother's dismay. Most people would get bored or plain annoyed that she's dragging both guys along for 9+ books, but I read these books in part to see what happens with Ranger or Joe. If you want a light read with a good plot, great characters, and fabulous humor: pick up this series. Seriously, do it. I dare you. Have you read any of these books? Are you a Babe or a Cupcake? (I stole this from Sharon @ The Book Barbies so thank her for it) ...more Stephanie Plum would a series that you turn to for some mindless reading and comic relief from every day stress. This book served this purpose well. There were numerous laugh-out-loud moments for me and they were all hilarious. I must have looked like an idiot when I bursted out laughing while reading the book on the subway, but some things were just too funny to hold back. Some key moments for me: - Stephanie and gang travelling to Las Vegas and got searched at the airport security - Lula's superm Stephanie Plum would a series that you turn to for some mindless reading and comic relief from every day stress. This book served this purpose well. There were numerous laugh-out-loud moments for me and they were all hilarious. I must have looked like an idiot when I bursted out laughing while reading the book on the subway, but some things were just too funny to hold back. Some key moments for me: - Stephanie and gang travelling to Las Vegas and got searched at the airport security - Lula's supermodel diets - Tank getting hurt while helping Stephanie with some apprehension - Valerie giving birth and squirting water all over Cal (another one of Ranger's men assigned to bodyguard Stephanie) and then Cal getting a concussion by bumping his head on the floor when he fell In this book, Stephanie became the target of a killer when she got involved in a missing person case. While normally Stephanie took these things lightly, this time she was truly spooked and she sought protection from both Joe Morelli and Ranger. Under the circumstances, both men were able to tolerate each other for the protection of Stephanie. The culprit behind the killings were so obvious that I knew who it was partway through the book. If you wanted to read a true mystery book, this wouldn't be for you as you'd be disappointed by its loose plot construction. However, for simple entertainment reason, I'd recommend this book as it'd be one of those light reads that you could forget about fairly quickly. I'd give 3 stars plainly for its comic value. ...more I think the real stars of these books are the role players. Lula, the ex-ho turned file clerk and bounty hunting side kick comically slays in this installment. The not so dainty Lula wants to look like a supermodel so she tries an all meat diet. Doesn't sound so funny you say.... well Evanovich spins this portion of the story like a top. Literally Laugh Out Loud. Ranger hates leaving Stephanie alone on her excursions, nothing bad has ever happened on a mission, right?!? Well the group of Merry M I think the real stars of these books are the role players. Lula, the ex-ho turned file clerk and bounty hunting side kick comically slays in this installment. The not so dainty Lula wants to look like a supermodel so she tries an all meat diet. Doesn't sound so funny you say.... well Evanovich spins this portion of the story like a top. Literally Laugh Out Loud. Ranger hates leaving Stephanie alone on her excursions, nothing bad has ever happened on a mission, right?!? Well the group of Merry Men that Ranger sends to guard Stephanie get caught up in her collateral damage too. The big and burly Merry Men, Cal and Tank, both fall victim to Stephanie's usual run of bad luck. These books do have story lines but the everyday stuff definitely drives the car in these books. Continuing on with the series. Reading #10 as I'm writing this. ...more Rereading Oh my god, guys, I'm doing it again. This Stephanie Plum book is even more of a five-star book from the last Stephanie Plum book I gave five stars to (Three to Get Deadly). This is pretty much the Perfect Plum. The plot is actually interesting. A man who works for a slot-machine-part manufacturer goes missing. He is in the U.S. on a visa bond, which Vinnie wrote, so Stephanie has to get him back. She gets to learn how slot-machine parts are made AND go to Vegas, which involves Lula going through Oh my god, guys, I'm doing it again. This Stephanie Plum book is even more of a five-star book from the last Stephanie Plum book I gave five stars to (Three to Get Deadly). This is pretty much the Perfect Plum. The plot is actually interesting. A man who works for a slot-machine-part manufacturer goes missing. He is in the U.S. on a visa bond, which Vinnie wrote, so Stephanie has to get him back. She gets to learn how slot-machine parts are made AND go to Vegas, which involves Lula going through TSA screen (they confiscate the meat in her purse) and riding on a plane. In Vegas, Lula starts a turf war between Tom Jones impersonators and Elvis impersonators, she throws her \"King Kong thong\" in a performers face, and Connie almost marries someone. The whole thing turns out be a red herring, and Stephanie gets involved with a creepy game-playing serial killer who leaves her flowers and threatening notes. Even though the killer is completely obvious to the reader, it's still really tense and interesting. Plus, Stephanie actually does stuff in this book. She fights back at an assailant, and she actually kills the bad guy all by her herself. At one point, she reminisces about being a tomboy, fantasizing about G.I. Joe and Thundercats (while Mary Lou would be Smurfette), and she actually lives up to her childhood fantasies in this one. Along the way, they really get to know this counter guy at McDonald's who lists off a bunch of ridiculous customer complaints. \"Wanting an Egg McMuffin at eleven when it is a rule you cannot have an Egg McMuffin past ten-thirty.\" Of course, he gets shot dead and Lula freaks out over her milkshake. \"I don't get hysterical. This here's transference. I read about it in a magazine. It's when you get upset about one thing only you're really upset about something else.\" Lula really rocks it out in this one. After her FatBusters diet fails to bust her fat, she starts an all-meat diet to get to supermodel wait in no time. It makes her aggressive. She wrestles a woman to the ground, tackles one of Stephanie's body guards, and gets chased by dogs a lot. She always gets pursued when she's trying to impress Tank. Bob eats her purse. She throws bacon at a pack of mutts. After eating meat so much, she thinks she's growing fangs, which makes no sense, but the ridiculousness didn't keep me from laughing out loud when she asked Stephanie, \"Are you looking at my fangs?\" Speaking of healthy eating, Stephanie makes a healthy breakfast choice too, she chooses a Strawberry Pop-Tart over a S'mores one. \"Best to have fruit for breakfast, right?\" Stephanie mentions Mary Lou, her alleged best friend whom she never ever does anything with, twice, and Mary Lou cancels on her! There's a lot of Stephanie and Morelli, which I love. Their sex scenes are actually hot and not Charlaine Harris-style icky. Ranger is kept to a minimum, which is great because he's extra Charlaine Harris-style icky when he does appear. (Stephanie: \"I thought we came here for pie.\" Ranger: \"I don't eat the kind of pie they serve here.\" Steph: I felt a flash of heat go through my stomach. I knew firsthand the kind of pie Ranger liked.) Ranger mostly sends bodyguards to protect her, and they get incapacitated in a variety of ways: tackled by Lula, crushed by an FTA, Valerie's water breaks on one of them, etc. Favorite quotes/scenes: Stephanie is sent flowers by a serial killer: Lula: \"It's nice to come back to fresh flowers in the room.\" Stephanie: \"They were sent by a serial killer! THEY'RE DEATH FLOWERS.\" Lula: \"Well, yeah, but they're still nice.\" Lula: \"It's a sin to throw food away.\" Stephanie: \"Neither of us needs this food, so God's just going to have to understand.\" Lula: \"I think you might be blaspheming God.\" Stephanie: \"I'm not blaspheming god.\" Lula: \"Give me that food bag. I'm going to save your immortal soul.\" Stephanie: \"No! Remember the supermodel. Have some carrots. Lula: \"I hate those fucking carrots. Give me that bag!\" Stephanie: \"Stop it! You're getting scary.\" Lula: \"I need that burger. I'm out of control.\" Stephanie: No shit. Then Stephanie RUNS for a trash can and throws the food in. Lula tackles her, dives into the dumpster, gets the food, then they split everything inside. Lula: \"Cops and dead people give me diarrhea.\" Valerie worries about marrying Albert: Stephanie: \"I think he'd run into a burning building to save you.\" Whether he'd get her out of the building is another issue. Probably they'd both die a horrible death. \"Lula is a plus-size black woman in a size-seven white world and Lula's had a lot of practice pulling attitude.\" ...more Just like every other Stephanie Plum mystery / adventure, <+++>To the Nines</+++> is a fun, entertaining ride. Just pack all your troubles away for the few days (hours?) it takes to get through her trials and tribulations. As always, Stephanie's life seems to be a shambles. Her family is at loggerheads, what with perfect sis, Valerie camped at her parent's home with her two girls and one on the way. Stephanie is forced to move in with on and off again boyfriend, Morelli, due to threats on her life. She stil Just like every other Stephanie Plum mystery / adventure, To the Nines is a fun, entertaining ride. Just pack all your troubles away for the few days (hours?) it takes to get through her trials and tribulations. As always, Stephanie's life seems to be a shambles. Her family is at loggerheads, what with perfect sis, Valerie camped at her parent's home with her two girls and one on the way. Stephanie is forced to move in with on and off again boyfriend, Morelli, due to threats on her life. She still can't seem to make up her mind between Ranger and Morelli, although, she now seems to be leaning toward Morelli and has an uneasy agreement with Ranger to avoid shenanigans. Even Morelli and Ranger have accepted the situation and are willing to work together to keep Stephanie out of trouble.. which follows Steph around. Stephanie and her best friend, Lula, are tasked by their boss and Steph's cousin, Vinnie, to bring in Samuel Singh, who has disappeared. Their investigation leaves behind a trail of bodies. Steph, Connie (Vinnie's assistant) and Lula take a trip to Vegas to try and track down Singh. (This is a great part of the book). Ranger's gang of bounty hunters, tasked to keep an eye on Steph, end up in various states of injury. So much going on and such fun to read. If you're feeling blue at all, try a Plum mystery. It's sure to cheer you up. It's sexy, funny and a great mystery. (3 stars) ...more Stephanie Plum - bounty hunter, Jersey Girl... Walking disaster... Morelli, Ranger, and \"His Merry Men\" are all once again trying to keep Stephanie safe. After hunting down a Visa skip, Stephanie becomes the target of a psychopathic (or is it psychotic?)cyber geek. The game is on and Stephanie is the prize. He is hunting her down and takes two of the people closest to her as hostages. She has to outwit him in order to save them all. Let me just tell you - the hostage thing had me peeing myself.. Stephanie Plum - bounty hunter, Jersey Girl... Walking disaster... Morelli, Ranger, and \"His Merry Men\" are all once again trying to keep Stephanie safe. After hunting down a Visa skip, Stephanie becomes the target of a psychopathic (or is it psychotic?)cyber geek. The game is on and Stephanie is the prize. He is hunting her down and takes two of the people closest to her as hostages. She has to outwit him in order to save them all. Let me just tell you - the hostage thing had me peeing myself... and thus the dawn of a new relationship... lol Meanwhile - Stephanie's sister and her boyfriend have a baby and move into her apartment. Grandma Mazur is watching porn and has taken to imagining Ranger naked (who wouldn't?). Joe's Grandma Bella has visions... specifically visions of Stephanie in a casket - dead. AND Stephanie decides to catch Morelli in the act of \"hiding the salami\" with a mob princess... count the ways this can go wrong! Some random lines: Ranger: \"I don't know what I swear. I can't think of anything awful enough to do to you that wouldn't leave you maimed of psychologically scarred.\" Stephanie: \"Nice to know there are boundaries.\" Lulu: \"I feel like Michael J. Fox in that werewolf movie. Remember when he started growing hair all over? It was like he was turning into Connie.\" \"Being a mob boss in Trenton didn't get you on \"America's Most Wanted.\" Trenton was just a midsize pothole in the organized crime highway.\" ...more I was actually pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed this. I actually chuckled out loud a few times, which hadn't happened in a long time where these books are concerned, and there weren't nearly as many of the repetitive elements that plague this series in later books. That said, it was totally predictable. Admittedly, I've read this before, but not in several years, and I remembered literally nothing about the plot. Still, I was able to work out who the villain was at least a hundred and I was actually pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed this. I actually chuckled out loud a few times, which hadn't happened in a long time where these books are concerned, and there weren't nearly as many of the repetitive elements that plague this series in later books. That said, it was totally predictable. Admittedly, I've read this before, but not in several years, and I remembered literally nothing about the plot. Still, I was able to work out who the villain was at least a hundred and fifty pages before Steph, so it clearly wasn't the greatest of mysteries. At least it was more interesting than a lot of the other cases Steph deals with?? Frankly, it's just a relief that this had far less of the \"Morelli or Ranger?\" bullshit that the later books are rife with. JUST MAKE UP YOUR DAMNED MIND ALREADY. So yeah. It was entertaining enough, but still full of the standard Lula's-on-a-diet-Grandma-Mazur's-a-weirdo-Bob-eats-something-weird-Grandma-Bella-has-a-vision elements that are recycled in practically every single book. So I'm going with 3 stars. ...more I am really enjoying the Stephanie Plum series. I only gave it three stars because in the end, they are just fluff books, but they are fantastic fluff books. It did take me a bit to get into the scenarios Evanovich creates, but once I did, I couldn't stop laughing. My husband is always demanding to know what I am laughing so hysterically at while I am reading them and whenever I oblige and tell him or read him the scene, he looks at me like I am crazy. When told to the outside observer, the plot I am really enjoying the Stephanie Plum series. I only gave it three stars because in the end, they are just fluff books, but they are fantastic fluff books. It did take me a bit to get into the scenarios Evanovich creates, but once I did, I couldn't stop laughing. My husband is always demanding to know what I am laughing so hysterically at while I am reading them and whenever I oblige and tell him or read him the scene, he looks at me like I am crazy. When told to the outside observer, the plots sound horrific and not at all something to be laughed at, but when completely immersed into Evanovich's writing style and characters, these books are the only thing I have found in a long time that make me laugh out loud. ...more Another great one. I enjoyed reading this one and am hating Joe more and more, while liking Ranger more and more. The crazies are out and the devastation on people instead of cars was pretty good. I'm waiting to see what the pay-back is. That's gonna be gooooood. ;) I loved the characters and the intros of more Merry Men, and their hapless intros to the Bombshell. The ending was page-turning and a little scary. The Eye had a set back but recovered as planned in the end. The family dynamics are g Another great one. I enjoyed reading this one and am hating Joe more and more, while liking Ranger more and more. The crazies are out and the devastation on people instead of cars was pretty good. I'm waiting to see what the pay-back is. That's gonna be gooooood. ;) I loved the characters and the intros of more Merry Men, and their hapless intros to the Bombshell. The ending was page-turning and a little scary. The Eye had a set back but recovered as planned in the end. The family dynamics are good. I wasn't laughing as much in this one, but there was some serious muscle on the side. On to the next. Enjoy ...more Ok, these books are easy, fun, fluffy one-evening reads that I'm really enjoying. There's only one thing that really bugs me. She over-uses \"angle\" as a verb, usually relating to people getting into cars...ie \"He angled himself into the car and left.\" For me that paints a mental picture of somebody who has parked too close to the car in the next slot and must carefully open the door 6 inches and work his/her way into the driver's seat....however that's not the case in these books. The characters Ok, these books are easy, fun, fluffy one-evening reads that I'm really enjoying. There's only one thing that really bugs me. She over-uses \"angle\" as a verb, usually relating to people getting into cars...ie \"He angled himself into the car and left.\" For me that paints a mental picture of somebody who has parked too close to the car in the next slot and must carefully open the door 6 inches and work his/her way into the driver's seat....however that's not the case in these books. The characters *always* \"angle\" themselves into cars. I seriously want to tell them to just open the damn door wider and get in. ...more Stephanie is on the case on a new type of bond that Vinnie issued. It was supposed to be an easy bond, no shooting or death involved, but it's Stephanie, and things always happen to Stephanie. She goes after the missing \"skip\" with the help of Ranger, ahh Ranger, needed that moment. Stephanie finds herself in the middle of a game that has her as the ultimate death prize. The least likely killer set her in his sights and of course was taken down in the end. Valerie had her baby and of course the Stephanie is on the case on a new type of bond that Vinnie issued. It was supposed to be an easy bond, no shooting or death involved, but it's Stephanie, and things always happen to Stephanie. She goes after the missing \"skip\" with the help of Ranger, ahh Ranger, needed that moment. Stephanie finds herself in the middle of a game that has her as the ultimate death prize. The least likely killer set her in his sights and of course was taken down in the end. Valerie had her baby and of course the on again off again relationship with Stephanie continues. Hilarious interactions as usual with Lula and Connie joining in the fun. Great story and entertaining. ...more 3.5 Stars This one wasn't as funny as the previous ones and neither was the mystery too great. A little disappointed but I'll continue the series anyway. And, uh no one in India is named \"Apusenja\" , you could have done a bit research Ms. Evanovich and next time you want an Indian name for your book you have my permission to use mine. ;) Great book enjoyed it a lot Another great book in the series full of mishaps accidents near Jeff and hijinks love love them. Before reading: So the thing was, I was looking for a woman who writes about a woman detective. I had had plenty of men about men. Janet Evanovich popped up as meeting the criteria. Having a lead, it was my responsibility to undertake the due diligence. I think I might have blown it. It seems this series is classified by GR readers as Mystery first and foremost but Chick Lit running a distant but statistically significant second. So I have a couple of Evanovich books touted as #1 sellers in many Before reading: So the thing was, I was looking for a woman who writes about a woman detective. I had had plenty of men about men. Janet Evanovich popped up as meeting the criteria. Having a lead, it was my responsibility to undertake the due diligence. I think I might have blown it. It seems this series is classified by GR readers as Mystery first and foremost but Chick Lit running a distant but statistically significant second. So I have a couple of Evanovich books touted as #1 sellers in many categories that I got as BookSwap went out of business. (I wonder who are the #2 sellers?) The clever titling of the series \u2013 one\u2026, two\u2026, three\u2026, four\u2026 etc. \u2013 gives me pause but it must have some benefit for marketing and that is the name of the best seller game, right? Now I will see if I found my woman. I plan to review this book one chapter at a time. You can\u2019t be sure if it will be dull or exciting. If I was skimming this book in a library aisle, based on the first few pages I would put it back on the shelf and look for something else. But since I own this book and am sitting at home on my couch, I must read on regretting that I rarely fail to finish a book that I start. Chapter one: The highlight is the capture of a naked bail jumper by our heroine. What makes it a highlight is that he is not just naked but has also covered himself with Vaseline. You know, like catching a greased pig at the county fair. Chapter two: The day glow dust jacket should have been a tip off. They don\u2019t want this best seller to be missed on the grocery store shelf. I forgot to mention that in Chapter one there were \u201cjohnson\u201d and \u201cwanger\u201d jokes. I was not amused. Maybe I am a little oversensitive about reading chick lit. Lots of sexual innuendo and not so innuendo. Chapter THREE: Nice typeface for the chapter headings \u2013 the number of the chapter spelled out in upper case. Classy. Definitely the best part of the book so far. Oh, no, a fart joke. (\u201cThat wasn\u2019t me.\u201d) Is this going to be like a PG movie? And the first evidence of a dead person as the chapter ends. Wowza! Chapter four: Show and tell. Must be character development. \u201dI hate this,\u201d Morelli said. \u201cWhy can\u2019t I have a girlfriend who has normal problems . . . like breaking a fingernail or missing a period or falling in love with a lesbian?\u201d \u2026 Morelli was better at this cohabitation than I was. Morelli was invigorated by sex. An orgasm for Morelli was like taking a vitamin pill. The more orgasms he had, the sharper he got. I\u2019m the opposite. For me, an orgasm is like a shot of Valium. A night with Morelli and the next morning I\u2019m a big contented cow. Chapter five: A person being questioned by our heroine is shot. First dead body. Oh, and there was \u201ca lot of bitch slapping and name calling and hair pulling\u201d by a couple of women. Is this part of what makes it chick lit? I think I am starting to be drawn into the reality show aspects. Got to get on to the next chapter. Chapter six: What do you suppose McDonald\u2019s pays to be in these books? And, since I\u2019m asking, what are the chances that all these things could happen to our heroine in such a short time? I\u2019m smiling about it in disbelief, but that might mean that I am enjoying it! Not supposed to take this seriously. Chapter seven: I don\u2019t watch soap opera type shows but I have the feeling that if I did, it would be like this book \u2013 a three ring circus. Chili\u2019s. Cheesecake Factory. They\u2019re lining up for a mention in this book. Chapter eight: Book came out in 2003 so they\u2019re still using pagers. Where are the iPhones? Chapter nine: Las Vegas. I understand that writers often visit locales where books are set to add some local color. A laugh out loud line: \u201cMaybe I should throw my bra, too.\u201d Second one in the book and only halfway through. Way to go, Janet. Chapter ten: I just checked. This book has over 29,000 GR ratings and an average rating of 4.1. I am not sure what to make of that. I would like to think that if reading reviews had been a bigger part of my due diligence investigation, I might not be in this awkward situation. But 4.1? Will I fall under the spell? Dead people left and right. Will I be able to take a brief respite from the events of the day? Chapter eleven: I keep waiting to find out the origin of the title of this book. Ah, but of course, ask Google about \u201cto the nines\u201d and you will find out. Now, let\u2019s see where that comes up. Chapter twelve: Fisher Cat, Lisa and Bob. Chapter thirteen: Odd pair: gun and condoms in the cookie jar. Chapter fourteen: I have to finish this book but you don\u2019t have to finish this review. It\u2019s up to you but I am not going to tell you they lived happily ever after. I like a book that gives occasional summaries: \u201cI didn\u2019t know where to begin. There\u2019d been death, birth, sex, and hair loss.\u201d Is \u201ccute\u201d a chick lit word? Just asking. Chapter fifteen: What\u2019s with the anatomical language differential? A man has a \u201cjohnson\u201d or a \u201cwanger\u201d but a woman has a \u201cvagina.\u201d I\u2019d call that chick lit discrimination. You\u2019ve been very patient. I have been too. This is the last chapter. I went straight from the book to the News Hour on Public Television. To the Nines was a distraction from the world and national news for 24 hours. The next time I need an escape from today\u2019s war, I can read my last Janet Evanovich. It\u2019s Ten Big Ones . I wonder what Google has to say about that? I don\u2019t want anyone to say I didn\u2019t give Janet a chance. One last thought before I go on to the rating: This book needs a laugh track. There are some one liners that demand a laugh track. It\u2019s between three and two stars. I take GR ratings literally. Two stars means \u201cIt was OK.\u201d And three stars is \u201cliked it.\u201d We clear on that? So, just to be clear, I am between liked and OK, that rock and a hard place people always talk about. So I\u2019ll let you help decide. Pick a number, any number, between one and three. OK, it was OK. Two stars. That was easy. ...more One of the best in the series so far. It's hilarious as usual, plus there's a solid mystery plot. And I did figure out who the criminal mastermind was! Oh Stephanie Plum. You crack me up. I took a break from the Stephanie Plum series after reading 8.5 books all one after another and decided I didn\u2019t want to ruin a good thing by having too much of it. But, then I randomly watched One for the Money (again) and I decided the break was over and Stephanie and I (more like Morelli, Ranger, and I) were going to need to rekindle. And I had a smile on my face from page one. Even when she\u2019s just awaken from being knocked out with some of her hair missing Oh Stephanie Plum. You crack me up. I took a break from the Stephanie Plum series after reading 8.5 books all one after another and decided I didn\u2019t want to ruin a good thing by having too much of it. But, then I randomly watched One for the Money (again) and I decided the break was over and Stephanie and I (more like Morelli, Ranger, and I) were going to need to rekindle. And I had a smile on my face from page one. Even when she\u2019s just awaken from being knocked out with some of her hair missing, and in front of a dead body you can\u2019t help but think \u201cYou\u2019re awesome Steph.\u201d This mystery definitely topped the majority of the other books because the killer was SO sadistic. I really loved it. It reminded me of Ramirez from the first few novels. And, even though there were moments when I thought man that person is sick, I couldn\u2019t help but laugh at some of the random things that go through Stephanie\u2019s mind and some of the awkward situations she gets herself into. And then of course Stephanie finally has some stuff figured out. Does she have the guy thing figured out? No. Does she have the career thing figured out? Nope. Ok, well she barely has things figured out, but she come to realize what she does want in her future and I thought that was a big move for Steph. Not to mention the characters, Steph, Morelli, Ranger, Lula, Connie, and even her sister and her sister\u2019s \u201cboyfriend\u201d all crap me up. They are some strange characters that you just can\u2019t help falling in love with. Stephanie Plum never makes anything simply, but also never leaves you bored or without a smile on your face. Good: Stephanie\u2014\u201cMy poor bambinos\u201d. Cracked me up. Morelli\u2014I use to hate when guys called me Cupcake. Now if a guy called me Cupcake I would smile\u2026and probably be picturing you instead of them. Ranger\u2014Babe. Hot damn Ranger is awesome and I love the tension between Stephanie and him. Lula, Connie, and the rest\u2014As always you are all awesome. Bad: There were some moments when the story goes a little slow. They are few and far in between, but they still exist. And sometimes when Stephanie is collecting clues it tends to get a little bit boring. Overall (Writing style, story line, and general): Overall Stephanie Plum has never really let me down. Neither has Janet Evanovich. The story was pretty easy to follow, although sometimes there are so many characters your head spins just trying to remember them, but I never really had to re-read something to understand it. Stephanie isn\u2019t really a genius (although sometimes I think she is) so everything is laid out pretty easy for the reason to understand. The story-line was a good one, and as always the characters were awesome. I am definitely not apposed to reading some more Stephanie Plum. ...more Stephanie Plum is up to her usual tricks when she gets assigned to find Samuel Singh, an illegal immigrant who has jumped his immigration bond. Ranger, her co-worker, is put on the case, too, but the leads are slim. Stephanie and Ranger soon learn that Singh's disappearance is tied to random events and people. Stephanie investigates Singh's place of employment, TriBro. The Cone brothers, Andrew, Bart, and Clyde run the establishment. Soon, Stephanie begins receiving death threats along with red a Stephanie Plum is up to her usual tricks when she gets assigned to find Samuel Singh, an illegal immigrant who has jumped his immigration bond. Ranger, her co-worker, is put on the case, too, but the leads are slim. Stephanie and Ranger soon learn that Singh's disappearance is tied to random events and people. Stephanie investigates Singh's place of employment, TriBro. The Cone brothers, Andrew, Bart, and Clyde run the establishment. Soon, Stephanie begins receiving death threats along with red and white carnations. Still, Stephanie doesn't give up and even takes a trip to Las Vegas in the hopes of finding Singh. Stephanie knows she's a target, but finding who's behind the flowers and the death threats will be her biggest challenge to date. Evanovich's writing is easy to read and completely engages the reader. She uses a solid first person voice that makes the reader feel like a part of Stephanie's world. Her supporting characters are honest and endearing. Lula is a true friend, Ranger an anti-hero, and Grandma Mazur tries to keep the family peace as Stephanie's sister, Valerie, prepares for birth. The story is a cozy mystery with plenty of well placed clues and several red herrings. \"To The Nines\" has adventure, nail-biting suspense, laughs, and plenty of heartwarming moments. It is good for 13 years old readers and older. The novel is a fine addition to the series. I highly recommend this book. ...more In the ninth book of the series, Stephanie Plum is after Samuel Singh, a Indian man living and working in Jersey on a visa bond. He seems to have gone missing, only a week before he is scheduled to return home. Not that this is unusual, as his boss explains; many of the foreign temporary workers that he hires get a taste of the American life, and want to stick around. But then there are the flowers that get delivered to Stephanie, with the not-so-sweet notes. And the photographs of dead people! In the ninth book of the series, Stephanie Plum is after Samuel Singh, a Indian man living and working in Jersey on a visa bond. He seems to have gone missing, only a week before he is scheduled to return home. Not that this is unusual, as his boss explains; many of the foreign temporary workers that he hires get a taste of the American life, and want to stick around. But then there are the flowers that get delivered to Stephanie, with the not-so-sweet notes. And the photographs of dead people! She knows they are related to Samuel's disappearance. Stephanie will have to leave the comfort of the Burg, and travel across the country to follow and possibly catch her man. And how can she be expected to go to Vegas without her spandex-wearing and colorful sidekick Lula?!? Others aiding on the case (or just trying to keep Steph alive) include her very hot and mysterious mentor Ranger, her on-again-off-again boyfriend Joe, the very large Tank, and pin-upy office manager Connie, among others. Her family is also present, and just as eccentric as expected, growing by the minute, with the very pregnant Valerie and the clown that is the father of the child. Another very entertaining book. Stephanie is always endearing in her own Murphy's Law kind of way. Definitely a must read for Plum fans. ...more I'm not one to give really low ratings, so having done that for a handful of Janet Evanovich's books, I felt compelled to give a reason for it. I actually really enjoy Janet's writing. If you take any one of her books in and of itself, they are quite enjoyable. The problem is, her characters have not developed. I could have read any one of her Stephanie Plum series, and the individual book would have been enjoyable. But, at the time of this review, she has seventeen books in the series. Stephani I'm not one to give really low ratings, so having done that for a handful of Janet Evanovich's books, I felt compelled to give a reason for it. I actually really enjoy Janet's writing. If you take any one of her books in and of itself, they are quite enjoyable. The problem is, her characters have not developed. I could have read any one of her Stephanie Plum series, and the individual book would have been enjoyable. But, at the time of this review, she has seventeen books in the series. Stephanie Plum still makes the same mistakes. She should be dead by now, and Joe and Ranger should have wiped their hands of her. Nobody would put up with her indecisiveness for this long. If you are looking for a good individual book, pick up any one of Janet's books. You won't really be lost if you haven't read them all, and though the mysteries change, there are so many similarities in the character's behavior, you really can just take off from the beginning of any book. Every one of her books would probably be at least a four if you were judging it on it's own, and not one of seventeen novels. ...more Stephanie Plum does Sister Act II The mystery surrounding the missing person in this book isn't so much who did it - sorry Janet, that was a bit obvious - but how/why. It took 'til at least three quarters of the way through and memories of some wierd film whose name I can't remember to work that one out. The villan is pretty creepy though and the last bit ... urgh! I think that in terms of sense of menace this is only beaten by the first one. However, we are talking Stephanie Plum and the gang so Stephanie Plum does Sister Act II The mystery surrounding the missing person in this book isn't so much who did it - sorry Janet, that was a bit obvious - but how/why. It took 'til at least three quarters of the way through and memories of some wierd film whose name I can't remember to work that one out. The villan is pretty creepy though and the last bit ... urgh! I think that in terms of sense of menace this is only beaten by the first one. However, we are talking Stephanie Plum and the gang so there is plenty of farce to brighten things up. Lula's reaction when she finds out she's wasted her knickers on a fake Tom Jones, the inability of Stephanie's crackshot bodyguards to deal with the chaos that surrounds her, Connie's (possible) marriage to an Elvis impersonator ... Anyway, that's my last one for now - at least until I get back onto bookcrossing and start searching out the rest! ...more Did anyone else sense the similarities of this book to the Twilight series? Stephanie Plum is Bella, Morelli is Edward (except he's not a vampire), and Ranger is Jacob (and he's not a werewolf). They aren't exact parallels, but in this book I was brought back to Edward allowing Bella to sleep in the tent with Jacob to stay warm when Morelli asks Ranger to take Stephanie to protect her. At least Stephanie is funny and kind of badass - even if she creates more danger than she stops!! I am more dra Did anyone else sense the similarities of this book to the Twilight series? Stephanie Plum is Bella, Morelli is Edward (except he's not a vampire), and Ranger is Jacob (and he's not a werewolf). They aren't exact parallels, but in this book I was brought back to Edward allowing Bella to sleep in the tent with Jacob to stay warm when Morelli asks Ranger to take Stephanie to protect her. At least Stephanie is funny and kind of badass - even if she creates more danger than she stops!! I am more drawn to her than I ever was to Bella. ...more", "Title": "To the Nines"},
