{"Comments": "I almost liked this book.<---F> Almost an added star</---F>. This is my 4th Sparks book. Message in a Bottle (<---B>2 stars</---B>). The Lucky One (1 star). Three Weeks With My Brother (1 star). This is the winning book for February 2011 Bestseller Book chosen by The Filipino Group here in Goodreads. I bought this book at regular price. I waited for the mass paperback (cheaper) edition but it is almost a year now since this book came out. February just started and I was about to open the thread (I am one of the moderators I almost liked this book. Almost an added star. This is my 4th Sparks book. Message in a Bottle (2 stars). The Lucky One (1 star). Three Weeks With My Brother (1 star). This is the winning book for February 2011 Bestseller Book chosen by The Filipino Group here in Goodreads. I bought this book at regular price. I waited for the mass paperback (cheaper) edition but it is almost a year now since this book came out. February just started and I was about to open the thread (I am one of the moderators of that group) so I grabbed me a copy. I am saying this just to explain that I have to love this book because I spent a fortune for it and I should try to entice members to read by coming up with a fair review. Which is a roller coaster. First hundred pages: Typical Sparks. Reading him is like eating at McDonalds. You know the taste. No surprises. If you want quick fix to your hunger, you pass by an outlet. Quality food at reasonable price. What I am saying is that there is nothing wrong with <---A>Nicholas Sparks</---A>' novels. You want romance, you get romance. You just read to be entertained, you get entertained. You don't want mind-boggling read, you just read and no need to think. You get what you expect. Second hundred pages: So I thought. Because suddenly, Nicholas Sparks made a detour. Unlike the first 3 books, he tried to become something that he hasn't done before. He tried to write a suspense thriller novel. Ala Ken Follett. Sparks caught my attention. He pulled it off as he stole some of my sleeping time. I slept only for only 3 hours that night as I got caught up with the mystery behind Katie (who turns out to be Erin ) and how is her life being a battered wife. Totally unexpected. Definitely no hums-hums in the wee hours of the morning! Last 50 pages: Unfortunately, this part did not fly for me. It seems too ordinary. Even that revelation about Jo. Seems contrived and I read and saw many of that in this lifetime: The Sixth Sense (movie),<---M> The Others (movie)</---M>, Pedro Paramo (book). Even the battered wife part. I saw or read about it in Sleeping with the Enemy (Julia Robert's novel), Black and Blue (book) and I supposed most of those Oprah books. So when I closed the book and went through the plot in my mind, I just did not like the whole story. Sparks tried to make Kevin's character multilayered and it was a nice try but Sparks did not explain his background. I thought that a page or two of his life as a child could make a lot of difference. Alex and his children seem like not characters at all. They are like stuff toys with what I think are so-typical characterizations. They are like movie starlets trying to win people by smiling a lot and saying all the right things. But this doesn't mean that I will not drop by a McDonald's outlet anymore. I mean we, once in a while, get hungry and have just enough money (for a burger) to spend, right? ...more Opening line: \u201cAs Katie wound her way among the tables, a breeze from the Atlantic rippled through her hair.\" Wow, this is definitely one of the better Sparks books I\u2019ve read, I sure hope he keeps going in this darker, less sappy direction with the next book too. I picked up SAFE HAVEN during a very busy time in my life and still found it unputdownable. Full of twists and turns, mystery and surprise and a HUGE suspense factor throughout. Of course we also get the romance (nicely done) and it again Opening line: \u201cAs Katie wound her way among the tables, a breeze from the Atlantic rippled through her hair.\" Wow, this is definitely one of the better Sparks books I\u2019ve read, I sure hope he keeps going in this darker, less sappy direction with the next book too. I picked up SAFE HAVEN during a very busy time in my life and still found it unputdownable. Full of twists and turns, mystery and surprise and a HUGE suspense factor throughout. Of course we also get the romance (nicely done) and it again takes place in a small North Carolina town (write what you know) but this was way darker then anything of Sparks\u2019 I\u2019ve read before. With a slowly and deliciously unravelling story, we don\u2019t ever get a huge background dump with any of the characters multiple POV\u2019s instead their lives, secrets and issues are gradually introduced, which I loved. And the bad guy here, jeez he was horrible, and I mean that in a good way. The kind of character that you love to hate, but I also really enjoyed getting into his head, as he slowly fell apart. Intriguing, creepy and well written. I highly recommended this one even for those non-Nicholas Sparks fans; I think you\u2019ll be surprised. The story here is somewhat reminiscent of ( A Bend in the Road )but way better, it also reminded me very much of that older Julia Roberts movie ( Sleeping With the Enemy ) but again its better then that too. I won\u2019t give away too much here with the synopsis, its well worth discovering on your own. Cheers. Katie is on the run, but the good people of Southport don\u2019t know that, they\u2019re too busy wondering what the pretty new waitresses\u2019 story is and why she keeps to herself so much, after all everyone here knows everybody else. For the first time in months Katie is allowing herself to breathe again, she\u2019s found a good paying job, a secluded place to live, and avoiding any personal ties should allow her enough time here to save some real money before she has to move on again. What she hadn\u2019t counted on was being drawn into the lives of anyone in this small town. First it was her outspoken single neighbour Jo, who only made her realize how much she missed having friends and then it was Alex, the widowed shop owner and his two adorable children. Slowly Katie is letting her guard down, growing attached and falling in love, allowing herself to dream of a future with a man that won\u2019t hurt her. But Kevin is good and he\u2019s on her trail. I\u2019ve just learned that this is going to be made into a movie, can\u2019t wait. I just got a chill ...more 2.5 rounded up It's not so much that there is anything bad about this book, it is just that it is.... boring. A very large portion of the story is devoted to describing the day to day life of the characters who live in a small, seaside town. What one does as they get up, what they eat, how they cook, the routine conversations between family members, what they buy at the grocery store, which tablecloth to put out etc. etc., comprises not only most of the book, but each of our own daily lives. Whil 2.5 rounded up It's not so much that there is anything bad about this book, it is just that it is.... boring. A very large portion of the story is devoted to describing the day to day life of the characters who live in a small, seaside town. What one does as they get up, what they eat, how they cook, the routine conversations between family members, what they buy at the grocery store, which tablecloth to put out etc. etc., comprises not only most of the book, but each of our own daily lives. While familiar, it's NOT what most sit down to read about. We all live it. It does not need to be explained to us. We KNOW already! Most people choose to read for an escape from the workaday life, not to endlessly re-hash it. That, along with the over-the-top climax makes this a rather disappointing attempt by a talented author. ...more This book, in my opinion, was completely different from any other book I've read of Sparks'. And that is a good thing! I would classify this book as a romantic suspense, or even a suspense in general. There were many instances where my heart was racing, and I couldn't find the strength to put the book down. And, as with all of Sparks' book, I found myself tearing up in parts. But not for the normal mushy-gushy reasons. Instead, I was crying because of the traumatic events taking place, and the h This book, in my opinion, was completely different from any other book I've read of Sparks'. And that is a good thing! I would classify this book as a romantic suspense, or even a suspense in general. There were many instances where my heart was racing, and I couldn't find the strength to put the book down. And, as with all of Sparks' book, I found myself tearing up in parts. But not for the normal mushy-gushy reasons. Instead, I was crying because of the traumatic events taking place, and the horror I felt for the main character. The pace of this book was an excellent break from the normal, and I think any Sparks fan will love this book, regardless of the fact that it's so different! Sparks is a great writer, and that definitely shows in <+++>Safe Haven</+++> . ...more That ending! I did not see that coming... Ahhhh I'm literally speechless and my heart is racing! ------------------------------- I should start off by saying that I already knew I would love this book before actually reading it. I've been a huge Nicholas Sparks fan since high school! Happy to say I loved this and I was captivated from the very beginning. I know his writing style can be a bit difficult to get used to, and some people find it boring. I do not find it boring at all. <+++>Safe Haven</+++> follows That ending! I did not see that coming... Ahhhh I'm literally speechless and my heart is racing! ------------------------------- I should start off by saying that I already knew I would love this book before actually reading it. I've been a huge Nicholas Sparks fan since high school! Happy to say I loved this and I was captivated from the very beginning. I know his writing style can be a bit difficult to get used to, and some people find it boring. I do not find it boring at all. Safe Haven follows the life of Katie, as she tries to hide from her husband, Kevin. Basically she has been physically abused by her husband for years and she finally decides to run. She arrives at Southport emotionally and physically scarred, and begins to form a new life. There she starts a relationship with Alex, who is a widowed father of two children, and she slowly begins to let her guard down. Not to mention her friendship with Jo! That\u2019s all I can say about the plot without spoiling anything. But this story\u2026 All the feels. All of them! The characters were really likable, with the exception of Kevin!!! Katie is a very strong woman, she has lived a lonely, difficult life and it is hard not to feel bad for her. I literally cried for her and wanted to take away the pain. Alex was a sweetheart, I loved him! He is the most kindhearted, selfless, perfect man a girl could ask for! Jo is that best friend we all have, or we all want, she was fantastic. Kevin is another story. That man has serious demons that have driven his mind to insanity. Legit psycho!!! He is that villain that you hate with a passion and seeing inside his head was the most disturbing thing ever! I mean for someone who quotes the bible a lot, the world he lived in was just wrong in every single aspect. My favorite part about this book was the danger that was added to it. It reminded me a lot of The Guardian and why I loved it so much because of the suspense, (my favorite book by Nicholas Sparks.) It had my heart racing just by sitting here reading it. When a book does that then you know it\u2019s a good book! The twist at the end though\u2026 I could barely contain myself! I honestly didn't see that coming at all and I was seriously in pure shock when I read the last page. Over all, another beautiful love story by Nicholas Sparks. ...more This is a MUST read for anyone in an abusive relationship. It will give you the courage needed to escape. I have a personal friend who did this exact thing and now her life is much better. When I listened to her tell her story it sounded exactly like Safe Haven. Nicholas Sparks is a wonderful writer. You can see truth in his writing. This was my first time reading Nicholas Sparks. I never even seen any of the movies. I must say I am a new fan, for sure. This story was truly beautiful. I don't know if I can even explain why I loved this book so much. The characters are great, the romance is done well, and the conclusion was deeply satisfying. I am eager to see the film, now! When I think of NS I think gooshy, sappy romance with a hint of sadness...that's what I always hear his books are like. This one, though, was a bit differ This was my first time reading Nicholas Sparks. I never even seen any of the movies. I must say I am a new fan, for sure. This story was truly beautiful. I don't know if I can even explain why I loved this book so much. The characters are great, the romance is done well, and the conclusion was deeply satisfying. I am eager to see the film, now! When I think of NS I think gooshy, sappy romance with a hint of sadness...that's what I always hear his books are like. This one, though, was a bit different than I expected. The writing style was amazing, because switching between the comforting, safe life Katie has now, and Kevin's search for her makes for an edge of your seat read. Very suspenseful. Very well done. ...more I bought this book on a whim. All the ladies at my workplace seem to be reading it and I keep overhearing them rave about it. It's Nicholas Sparks best book yet! When I got up to the register the lady ringing me up said, \"Ooh, Nicholas Sparks! I love his books. They're soo good. Oh, and look! It's going to be a movie. Gotta see that one.\" Mind you I had two other books in the pile, not a word about those. I didn't have high expectations for this book because it didn't seem like my kind of thing. I bought this book on a whim. All the ladies at my workplace seem to be reading it and I keep overhearing them rave about it. It's Nicholas Sparks best book yet! When I got up to the register the lady ringing me up said, \"Ooh, Nicholas Sparks! I love his books. They're soo good. Oh, and look! It's going to be a movie. Gotta see that one.\" Mind you I had two other books in the pile, not a word about those. I didn't have high expectations for this book because it didn't seem like my kind of thing. But I figured it's good to expand one's horizons. I shouldn't be so judgmental. Maybe I'd have something to talk to my co-workers about, other than the weather or work. The story was OK. Definitely not bad. The love interest, Alex, was a nice guy, albeit too good to be true. But this is a Nicholas Sparks novel right? I assumed certain stereotypes would reign. His kids seemed cute and equally too good to be true. Our heroine, Katie, aka Erin, was also OK considering how annoying this character had potential to be and given that she was also a stereotype--blonde and lanky, skinny with big breasts (which is almost verbatim her physical description, as detailed, conveniently, by the bad guy). She's pretty much the mysterious hot chick with the dark past. But when the sh*t hit the fan, she's the one that took the bad guy out. That's cool. The bad guy, Kevin, was a decent enough villain-ignore some \"too convenient coincidences\" and he'll do in a pinch--and thanks to him the plot hummed along at a good pace. If we didn't have Kevin to hate, surely we'd be left with perfect Alex and perfect big-in-only-the-right-places Katie and there goes the entire plot. I read this book in one day because I did want to know where the author was going with this. Thus, I admit to taking the bait. The ending ruined it for me. The ending is dumb, contrived, unnecessary, insulting even. It made me feel stupid for spending the time to read this book. All the way until the end I was debating whether to give this book three stars or four because for all its faults (up until that point) it did keep me reading. Lesson learned. I'll just continue to make small talk about the weather any time someone wants to talk about a Nicholas Sparks book. Otherwise my opinionated side might rear its head and I'll be mobbed by angry secretaries. ...more I hadn't read a Nicholas Sparks book since high school, after my friends insisted I read The Notebook (and I didn't like it...) So I don't know what possessed me to pick this one up, except that upon reading the description, it was supposed to be different than Sparks' other work. I wanted to give him another try. I'm not disappointed I did, though this book rated only 2 stars for me. Brief summary is that Katie is a mysterious new woman in town (in Southport), who likes to keep to herself. She s I hadn't read a Nicholas Sparks book since high school, after my friends insisted I read The Notebook (and I didn't like it...) So I don't know what possessed me to pick this one up, except that upon reading the description, it was supposed to be different than Sparks' other work. I wanted to give him another try. I'm not disappointed I did, though this book rated only 2 stars for me. Brief summary is that Katie is a mysterious new woman in town (in Southport), who likes to keep to herself. She strikes up an unlikely friendship with Alex, a widowed general-store owner with 2 young children. The not-so-secret secret is that Katie is a runaway battered wife. The book switches between the povs of Katie, Alex and Kevin (the abusive husband). I actually did like this book, but there were a few structural things that knocked it down a star for me. Here are the things I think Sparks does well: 1. Creating likable, yet real, protagonists. Sparks tends to look at the very best of human nature, with many of his main characters being extremely good and kind. However, there is a realness to them, and they react logically and filled with emotion. I feel readers (including myself) naturally connect to his main characters, which Sparks accomplishes within a few short pages. While Katie is nothing like myself (completely different backgrounds, life goals, etc.), I liked her and connected with her fears and dreams. 2. Setting. I guess the south (esp. North Carolina) is prominent in all of Sparks' novels, and this one is no exception. While descriptions of life in Southport aren't exactly thrilling, Sparks makes it seem like a special little world, almost akin to world building in fantasy novels. Gripes: 1. The first 100 pages is very quiet. It's essential for Katie and Alex to build their relationship, but once I figured out Katie's background (very early on in the novel) it was a little boring. The flashbacks are intriguing though. 2. It does get different after the first 100 pages or so, because we get the point of view of Kevin, the abusive husband. That was interesting, but to be honest, as the novel went on, I think we got too much Kevin. Or at least, we got too much of the same information. If you're going to stick his pov of view in so much, I would've liked new information about his character, background, etc. as opposed to him drinking himself into angry oblivion. 3. I wasn't crazy about the whole Jo resolve. I would've preferred her to be an actual person. Two reasons: A. I think it would've been nice for Katie to make another real friend, who wasn't her romantic partner. B. I think it was a cheat to make everything 100% \"okay\" that Alex loved another woman after his wife died. That stuff doesn't happen in real life; a person has to just trust their instincts after a loved one dies. That's about it. I did appreciate Sparks' slight variation in his writing. For the most part, the book was engaging, and I felt the flashbacks were realistic portrayal of an abusive relationship. The resolve was a bit fantasy (getting to kill your abuser, and end up with an incredibly perfect guy), but Katie's strength and ability to overcome and live feeling safe were very real. Edit: One more gripe. Though I think the abusive relationship that Katie went through was pretty real, I did think her resolve was \"too neat.\" When a person is in an abusive relationship, usually it takes a long time (years) to get over it, and incidents can trigger bad feelings/reactions. I would've appreciated a hint at this kind of struggle, because abuse doesn't just end quickly. ...more Well I just finished this book and let me just say that I have never been so happy to have puffs tissues in my house. My eyes are so swollen from crying its crazy. This was defiantly one of the darker books I've read from sparks. However, it still managed to rip me apart and them put me back together again... Sorta. I always lose a part of myself with a good book. I feel this is also the reason why some books stay with me for a while and why these same books stir emotions in me that both amaze m Well I just finished this book and let me just say that I have never been so happy to have puffs tissues in my house. My eyes are so swollen from crying its crazy. This was defiantly one of the darker books I've read from sparks. However, it still managed to rip me apart and them put me back together again... Sorta. I always lose a part of myself with a good book. I feel this is also the reason why some books stay with me for a while and why these same books stir emotions in me that both amaze me and scare the shit out of me as well. This book ( damn you sparks) did this to me. It will stay with me for some time and touched me on levels that I have a hard time explaining. This book took you down a topic that I feel so many women and children and maybe even men ( it could happen) have to live with every day. Abuse, physical, emotionally and mentally. This story discussed domestic abuse. While this was one of sparks more darker, twisted plots, he was able to write the story in a way that gave just enough information but still let you to fill in some blanks. Something clever I thought sparks did was wrote some of the book from Kevin's ( the abuser) POV. This was both intriguing and disturbing. Kevin, very obviously had some issues. His rants were fighting and insane and often times jumped around in a disturbing manner. I feel he may of had a mental disorder as well. He's touch on reality was hanging on by a thread, if at all. And then there was Katie's relationship with her friend Jo. The twist at the end dealing with Jo and the friendship was...beautiful. It healed my heart with soothing salve. Sparks has a way of bringing out a reaction in me that often times leaves me to wonder why I put myself through his books time after time. Then I read a part in the book that reminds me. He always reminds me why and puts me back in my place. In most cases these moments come in the form of a letter someone has either left behind or has been given to someone. Say what you want about the author. Love him. Hate him. Tolerate him. But never. Ever underestimate the man when he writes his letters. They are often my favorite and more memorable moments in his books. And for this, Nicholas Sparks, I both love you and hate you. ...more 5 stars The emotions attached to them were like sand castles in the tide, slowly washing out to sea., What a beautiful, heart wrenching story! I loved Katie\u2019s strength and Alex\u2019s devotion to his kids and the people he cares about. Katie\u2019s journey kept me glued to the page and seeing her open herself up to Alex and his kids was beautiful\u2026 I can\u2019t really give away too much and I\u2019m so glad I haven\u2019t seen the movie (which I hope to rectify ASAP) but you just have to dive in and experience each mom 5 stars The emotions attached to them were like sand castles in the tide, slowly washing out to sea., What a beautiful, heart wrenching story! I loved Katie\u2019s strength and Alex\u2019s devotion to his kids and the people he cares about. Katie\u2019s journey kept me glued to the page and seeing her open herself up to Alex and his kids was beautiful\u2026 I can\u2019t really give away too much and I\u2019m so glad I haven\u2019t seen the movie (which I hope to rectify ASAP) but you just have to dive in and experience each moment with them. The only thing that killed me was there was no epilogue, now this is the first ( I know shocking, Nicholas Sparks book I\u2019ve read, so I\u2019m not even sure if this is the norm) but I wanted more, to find out how their HEA turned out. * Reviewed on 01/01/2014 - after the holiday craziness * ...more Southport, North Carolina sets the stage for this book. Katie is running from a bad relationship right into the arms of Alex, the local store owner who has two adorable kids and is a widower. As with most predictable love stories by Mr. Sparks the bad relationship catches up to the good one-- this one ending with a massive firestorm and a unrealistic twist that doesn't quite make the heart strings pull. I found this one overly wrought with scenes that would never happen in real life, and the end Southport, North Carolina sets the stage for this book. Katie is running from a bad relationship right into the arms of Alex, the local store owner who has two adorable kids and is a widower. As with most predictable love stories by Mr. Sparks the bad relationship catches up to the good one-- this one ending with a massive firestorm and a unrealistic twist that doesn't quite make the heart strings pull. I found this one overly wrought with scenes that would never happen in real life, and the ending made me roll my eyes so hard I almost had to close the book before it was over. ...more People don't understand why I dislike Nicholas Sparks' books. Here's what I think... I think he wrote a pretty good novel-- The Notebook --out of the gate. And then, because he had a fabulous smile and was a man who seemed to understand true romance and could write about it minus the smut, he got assigned to the best PR person in the history of publishing. Sparks is a mediocre writer at best. His plots might have a seed of promise, but the writing reads like someone who is taking their first creati People don't understand why I dislike Nicholas Sparks' books. Here's what I think... I think he wrote a pretty good novel-- The Notebook --out of the gate. And then, because he had a fabulous smile and was a man who seemed to understand true romance and could write about it minus the smut, he got assigned to the best PR person in the history of publishing. Sparks is a mediocre writer at best. His plots might have a seed of promise, but the writing reads like someone who is taking their first creative writing class. Or maybe he's channeling an average writer from the past. His style is flowery yet stilted. All the characters talk the same. The movies made from his novels are much better than the books, so that pretty much says it all. Now as far as Safe Haven goes... I'm fairly sure he stole the plot from \"Sleeping With the Enemy\" and changed a few minor details. It made me nuts that he only eluded to the fact Katie's husband beat the shit out of her for w-a-y too long before he said it outright. And I wanted to yell, \"Yeah, I get it already! That loser, Kevin, is a lousy, narcissistic, controlling and crazy Bible quoting drunk. He's the quintessential wife beater.\" I can't even begin to know how many times he repeated the description of this guy. I guess he was trying to allow the reader into Kevin's head. All it did was piss me off. And then there was Katie. Like I said--\"Sleeping With the Enemy.\" She managed to physically escape her abuser, and then she spent all her days waiting for him to find her. She trusted nobody except she allowed herself to visit with her neighbor. She was determined to make it on her own. Until she met widower Alex. At first she was tentative, but one thing led to another (imagine that) until they had a full-fledged relationship. Alex was directly opposite of Kevin, but Katie couldn't risk getting too close to him. But that's exactly what happened. Finally Kevin found Katie--er--Erin and was enraged to see her with another man. She and that bastard would pay! There were fire and guns and near death experiences before Kevin finally met his maker. Predictable, but I could handle that. Then Nicholas Sparks couldn't resist taking it to the hokey and totally unbelievable level by making it so Katie's neighbor was really a magical spirit. She was Alex's wife who loved him so much she wanted him to be happy with another wife who would also love her children. Puhleease. ...more This is my 3rd book from Nicholas Sparks, and just by the 3rd book I already know Sparks' writing formula. The beginning was sort of a drag since I already know what to expect from the way in which the author would set the tone of the story, introduce the characters as to who's the good, the bad, and the one we should watch out for, etc. What caught my attention was the latter half part of the book, and the twist at the end (The Sixth Sense much). In a nutshell, it's a light, familiar and feel g This is my 3rd book from Nicholas Sparks, and just by the 3rd book I already know Sparks' writing formula. The beginning was sort of a drag since I already know what to expect from the way in which the author would set the tone of the story, introduce the characters as to who's the good, the bad, and the one we should watch out for, etc. What caught my attention was the latter half part of the book, and the twist at the end (The Sixth Sense much). In a nutshell, it's a light, familiar and feel good read. You pretty much know what to expect from Nicholas Sparks, and he never disappoints. ...more There is no doubt that you can rely on Nicholas Sparks to deliver a warm-hearted, well-written piece of contemporary fiction which combines romance with drama and current community issues. In Safe Haven he does not fail to deliver. This is an entertaining story, with just the right mix of elements, that engaged this reader from the opening pages. Katie is working hard as a waitress at Ivan\u2019s cafe, in coastal Southport, NC, and living in a run-down, low-rent house. She seems very remote and detach There is no doubt that you can rely on Nicholas Sparks to deliver a warm-hearted, well-written piece of contemporary fiction which combines romance with drama and current community issues. In Safe Haven he does not fail to deliver. This is an entertaining story, with just the right mix of elements, that engaged this reader from the opening pages. Katie is working hard as a waitress at Ivan\u2019s cafe, in coastal Southport, NC, and living in a run-down, low-rent house. She seems very remote and detached from the other residents, though Alex Wheatley and his two young children, Josh and Kristen take a keen interest. As their friendship grows, Alex and the kids arrange to present the penniless Katie with a bicycle, so she can ride places. She discloses to her neighbour Jo that she has been the victim of domestic violence, and is in fear of being discovered. Gradually Katie relaxes and comes out of her shell as she socialises with Jo and with Alex and his kids. Eventually she tells large parts of her story, about the abuse and how she ended up in Southport. Her friendship with Alex blossoms, but so too does the trouble with her ex-husband. As always, Sparks\u2019s prose is polished, fluent and readily accessible. The narrative is very straight-forward, there is a minimum of sub-plots and deviations. The climax is tense, with the fiery, violent showdown at Alex\u2019s store and Katie\u2019s home being well-written and riveting reading. The stuff about Jo was a bit naff for me, but I imagine it would go down a treat with a lot of readers. 3.5 \u2605s ...more Plot - 20/20 - full of plot twists Characters - 20/20 - very complex, you'll get emotionally attached Creativity - 20/20 - with all the plot twist it made this book so creative and unquie Writing - 20/20 - dark, suspenseful, emotional, hopeful, happy, EVERYTHING! All the feels! Pace - 10/10 - super fast paced Ending - 10/10 - perfection. the ending was perfect 100/100 = A 5/5 stars *Mild Spoilers* My heart feels like it's been ripped out of my chest and thrust back in. I read started Safe Haven this Plot - 20/20 - full of plot twists Characters - 20/20 - very complex, you'll get emotionally attached Creativity - 20/20 - with all the plot twist it made this book so creative and unquie Writing - 20/20 - dark, suspenseful, emotional, hopeful, happy, EVERYTHING! All the feels! Pace - 10/10 - super fast paced Ending - 10/10 - perfection. the ending was perfect 100/100 = A 5/5 stars *Mild Spoilers* My heart feels like it's been ripped out of my chest and thrust back in. I read started Safe Haven this morning on the drive up to Colorado. I barely stopped listening to it at all. Probably three times at the most. I loved every little thing about Nicolaus' story. From the beginning, so gripping I was into the story instantly. To the characters who were each phenomenally written in which I'll be adding details to next: Kevin, I've never been so scared of a character. I mentally flinch at the way he thought. And how much he believed what he was telling himself. I know that there are most defiantly people like that in the world. So wound up in their lies that they just become one. Not only lying to others but to themselves. Becoming the lies they tell. It breaks my heart, to think of all the people like that and how much they are suffering. Though most don't even know they are having never felt the joy/love to miss it. Moving on we have Katie. She's so strong. What she's been through and how she has pushed through from her challenges as a child; her dad being a mean drunk, her never inviting anyone home, getting kicked out after graduation, never the helping hands or encouragement to go to college, her parents dying I a car accident and on. The list goes on. What she went through as a child just to jump into abusive marriage after she meets the guy from getting jumped! How?! How can someone go through that and still be able to know how to care for a person? How to know when to stand up, or stay down for the threatening times for survival? Such courage showed her an every given moment just from what she survived and yet she's still completely selfless. The exact opposite of what Kevin was yelling and hitting at her for. Because she \"only thought of herself\" SHE DID ANYTHING BUT THAT! Oh, it still makes me so angry. She constantly fought to not give up, so full of faith. She was incredible to read about. Alex, what an example! His situation with his kids is a common one in our real world today and he handled it all so well. His actions and thoughts so humane in everything he did making me love reading his POV. It definitely wasn't my normal fantasy or contemporary YA read. This characters felt real and acted as such. Him Never yelling, lying, yes he wasn't perfect (no one is) but he became the best he could be and always tried to stick to that. I definitely want someone in my future life to be able to treat me with the same kind of respect as he did Katie as well as his children. Oh, I could rant on of how he was protective. Instantly bolting from his store when he took notice that his dear child was thrashing in the water. Worry and love consume his thoughts for him. Okay, okay I'll stop now and move on;) And lastly Joe. How much this story revolved around her just blew, BLEW my mind away. How much I respected her as Katie quietly read her letter... I don't believe I've felt that for a character before. Joe, Christy, Alex's first wife or whoever you want to call is someone I want to grow up and become like. I want to be selfless and love my husband and children that much that I would do anything and everything for their happiness. This story is perfect. So many messages were brought across from it. So many important morals. I was totally crying silently in the car with my two brothers and my dad. How embarrassing haha. Thankful Kent and Richard were asleep and my dad is driving in front of me, so I don't think he noticed if so he didn't comment. So yes this book was everything. I will most definitely be reading Nicholas Sparks books in the future, I'm so impressed with his writing. It cannot compare. If you haven't read Safe Haven and like thrillers you'll adore this one. Please read, and thank you can thank me later for it ;) Plot - 20/20 - full of plot twists Characters - 20/20 - very complex, you'll get emotionally attached Creativity - 20/20- with all the plot twist it made this book so creative and unquie Writing - 20/20 - dark, suspenseful, emotional, hopeful, happy, EVERYTHING all the feels! Pace - 10/10 - super fast paced Ending - 10/10- perfection. the ending was perfect 100/100 = A 5/5 stars ...more Small, close-knit, picturesque town. Check. Good people with good family values. Check. A terminal illness or two. Check. Long paragraphs devoted to describing the view and the weather. Check. Long, serious conversations. Reminiscing of sob stories. Check. Check. Tearjerkers. Check. It's undoubtly Nicholas Sparks'. I'd know even if I hadn't heard about the book and found it with covers ripped off and title and author's name missing. But for once-and I can't express how much joy I'd felt about this- Spa Small, close-knit, picturesque town. Check. Good people with good family values. Check. A terminal illness or two. Check. Long paragraphs devoted to describing the view and the weather. Check. Long, serious conversations. Reminiscing of sob stories. Check. Check. Tearjerkers. Check. It's undoubtly Nicholas Sparks'. I'd know even if I hadn't heard about the book and found it with covers ripped off and title and author's name missing. But for once-and I can't express how much joy I'd felt about this- Sparks had let his hair down. Because. . . There's a bad, crazy, murderous character. Check. Fast-paced , action-packed chapters. Check. And a happy ending *insert fireworks here*. Check and a thumbs up. I watched the movie twice in 2013 and I know exactly what would happen and how the story will end so before turning the first page I conditioned my mind to forget about it, to not even think about it, to give the book a clean slate that it deserved. The first part is engaging enough, Katie is a strong character and I liked that. She also had a dark past that she's trying to ran away from. And Alex is,well, good inside out and has family on top of his priority list. They're clearly meant to be. I admit there are parts that drag,like when they're talking endlessly at the beach or when Katie is recounting her day with Jo. I mean Jo might not know what Alex and Katie and the kids did but we do. Also the characters are far too mature and serious for me to relate to. Alex worries about kids and parenting. And Katie- she's disciplined enough to look only for items on sale while shopping! But I like them both individually and as a couple, which is why I was almost bored as they took and took and took their time to fall in love on the first part of the book. Enter Kevin and it became so much more exciting. Sparks made him sound so confused, and confusing and delightfully disturbed. Reading about him felt like really getting to pick the mind of an actual, real, breathing, living crazy person. His character infuriated me but of course without him this book would've been boring. I would never ever dream of someone even remotely close to him in anyone's real life but in Nicholas Sparks' novel of generally good and normal people, he's everything I could wish for. And then there's Jo. Oh, you'd never suspect Jo to be who she turned up to be in the end. She sounded so real, so earthy. She whined about cobwebs and she sweats! She sweats! What ghost sweats? That's why in the end,at the grand reveal ,I almost weep for making the mistake of seeing the movie first before reading the book. Imagine the shock,the wonderment, the fun I would've had at the incredible surprise Sparks had prepared. Nevertheless I still enjoyed this book a lot, specially the middle to end part. So turned out the guy could write something that has depth, good moral lessons and tearjerker kind of ending but is neither tragic nor boring. He should write more books like this one. Go ahead Sparks! ...more The book is another romantic novel by Nicholas sparks that took place in South Carolina. I loved the fact that this book had an element of suspense added to it. It was difficult for me to put down this book and it took me less time to finish it than I anticipated. I once came home and sat on the couch and stayed there reading every word of the book for three straight hours without noticing the hours that went by. I loved the plot, the choices of words. moreover, the characters seemed real to me The book is another romantic novel by Nicholas sparks that took place in South Carolina. I loved the fact that this book had an element of suspense added to it. It was difficult for me to put down this book and it took me less time to finish it than I anticipated. I once came home and sat on the couch and stayed there reading every word of the book for three straight hours without noticing the hours that went by. I loved the plot, the choices of words. moreover, the characters seemed real to me and convince-able. And the metaphors and descriptions were out of this world. I liked the fact that for each character there is a detailed story or background and that for each setting there is a detailed description. in addition, he captured the emotions clearly and carefully and I truly felt the romantic spark between the two main characters, Alex and Katie. I felt the pain of the abusive husband thanks to the descriptions of the physical and mental pain, the love of a single father thanks to the never ending concerns that were straight forward and the ones that were hidden between the lines and that were apparent to me thanks to the sense of reality and the choice of words and how they blend well together, and Alex's love towards Katie. I loved that there was a surprise ending that no one and I mean no one would have saw it coming. In light of the above, I learned a lot from the way Nicholas Sparks writes and I believe that I could use that in my own personal writings when it comes to writing short stories or even novels. I wish there would be a sequel to this story, because it's still lingering in my mind and I believe that it will always stay with me from how much I've loved and enjoyed it and from how much I've learned from it. The writing was simple, realistic and full of emotions. ...more If you're a Nicholas Sparks fan, you probably already knew what to expect for his newest book, Safe Haven, which was released this past week: a love story set in small-town North Carolina that will probably make you cry. It's definitely a formula, but one that works. Why mess with success, right? Well, it turns out that this one strays a little bit form the formula, but I still think it counts as a success. Part of the variation from the norm are the twists and surprises, but I won't give anythin If you're a Nicholas Sparks fan, you probably already knew what to expect for his newest book, Safe Haven, which was released this past week: a love story set in small-town North Carolina that will probably make you cry. It's definitely a formula, but one that works. Why mess with success, right? Well, it turns out that this one strays a little bit form the formula, but I still think it counts as a success. Part of the variation from the norm are the twists and surprises, but I won't give anything away here. This is a spoiler-free zone! This story is set in Southport, NC. If you're familiar with the Tarheel state, it's just a bit south of Wilmington and seems to tout the small-town, Southern charm that's the perfect backdrop for a story. The first 243 pages are typical of a Nicholas Sparks novel: boy meets girl and falls in love. There's enough backstory to make the characters real and enough description to appreciate the author's talent. I especially loved this section from page 60: \u201cThe storm finally broke in the early evening, and Katie opened the kitchen window. The temperature had dropped and the air felt cool and clean. While pockets of mist rose from the ground, rolling clouds drifted past the moon, bringing light and shadow in equal measures. Leaves turned from silver to black and silver again as they shimmered in the evening breeze. \u201cKatie drifted dreamily on the wine, the evening breeze, and Jo\u2019s easy laughter. Katie found herself savoring every bite of the buttery crackers and sharp, rich cheese, remembering how hungry she had once been. There was a time when she\u2019d been as thin as a heated strand of blown glass.\u201d Beautiful, right? So yeah, the first 243 pages are par for the course. But on page 244, the story takes a leap from romance to thriller and stays that way for a while. As I approached page 328 (out of 340), I have to say that I was a little bit mad at Mr. Sparks. Not only had he changed his format on me and deeply scarred some of the characters I'd grown to love, but I hadn't cried at all! One of the best parts of his books is when something happens to make me cry hard enough that the words blur on the page and I sit there sniffling like an idiot. It sounds silly, but I love being that invested in the characters, and I love the emotional response that the story evokes. So no tears with only 12 pages left? I felt jipped! I should have known. I turned to page 329 and there was a twist. I missed all of the clues. And I cried like a baby through the very last page. I should have known that Nicholas Sparks would not let me down! In conclusion, though this book is different from the other Sparks novels, it's well-worth the read. At this point, I think Mr. Sparks could write a grocery list and I'd still read it. And it would probably make me cry. But I wouldn't have it any other way! ...more \u201cI've come to believe that in everyone's life, there's one undeniable moment of change, a set of circumstances that suddenly alters everything.\u201d Since I'm in the mood for a movie marathon and I had read this book before I decided to see it on movie. And again the movie is much better. Although I give the book version 4 stars after watching the movie it earns a lot of additional stars. I love the suspense, romance, magic and second shot for love. I like Julianne Hough portrayal on the movie. The \u201cI've come to believe that in everyone's life, there's one undeniable moment of change, a set of circumstances that suddenly alters everything.\u201d Since I'm in the mood for a movie marathon and I had read this book before I decided to see it on movie. And again the movie is much better. Although I give the book version 4 stars after watching the movie it earns a lot of additional stars. I love the suspense, romance, magic and second shot for love. I like Julianne Hough portrayal on the movie. The first wife appearance on their lives was a major tearjerker. \u201cThat's the thing about life. A lot of the time, it isn't easy at all. We just have to try to make the best of it.\u201d \u201cIf you love Alex now, then love him forever. Make him laugh again, and cherish the time you spend together. Take walks and ride your bikes, curl up on the couch and watch movies beneath a blanket. Make him breakfast, but don't spoil him. Let him make breakfast for you as well, so he can show you he thinks you're special. Kiss him and make love to him and consider yourself lucky for having met him, for he's the kind of man who'll prove you right.\u201d ...more OK, I really need to stop reading Nicholas Sparks. Everytime I read something by him I think \"Right. That's it. I will not waste anymore time in my precious short life reading his bland, shmaltzy, velveeta cheese like substance novels. But then one of the many people (and yes, well educated people) I know will say \"Oh, but Kristen, you should read his latest book. You'll like this one.\" I fall for it everytime. This book, I was told by numerous people was different because it was darker, not as OK, I really need to stop reading Nicholas Sparks. Everytime I read something by him I think \"Right. That's it. I will not waste anymore time in my precious short life reading his bland, shmaltzy, velveeta cheese like substance novels. But then one of the many people (and yes, well educated people) I know will say \"Oh, but Kristen, you should read his latest book. You'll like this one.\" I fall for it everytime. This book, I was told by numerous people was different because it was darker, not as marshmallowy (that was my adjective, not theirs) as his other books, so I read it. And I disliked it. A lot. It just seems like every male character and every female in all of his books are really just the same people only with different names and occupations. And they are all so boring. Just once i would like a Sparks character to say f*** or talk about their periods, or not like kids and have it not be because they are the villain. Having said that, I had the pleasure of talking with a 96 year old lady at the hospital the other day and she had this book sitting on her bedside table and told me she likes N Sparks' novels \"because they aren't too racy for me\" which I thought was adorable so hats off to Mr Sparks for providing a good read for people of a certain age and disposition. However. This book especially irritated me with the whole \"dead wife's ghost trying to fix up hubby with some new sweet young thing to raise their kids and have great sex with plot\" eww. eww. eww. Maybe I'm just not spiritually mature enough, but the whole thing just smacked of ridiculous male fantasy. It's one thing if the wife is really just dead and wrote a letter to whomever might someday take her place, but the idea that she is going to be looking down from heaven watching them...well if I was the new wife I would be very creeped out. And then, what happens when they all get to heaven someday? Is there going to be a wife sharing situation, or will wife number one have moved on and shacked up with some other guy?? I know I'm sorry, but it BOTHERS me. Wow. So, I guess I have some issues. Anyway, I vow that this really really was my last Sparks novel. This time I mean it! p.s. Snark Disclaimer: Years ago I watched The Notebook and SOBBED. LIKE A BABY. My then grade school aged son even felt the need to come into my bedroom and pat my leg saying \"It's OK mom, it's only a movie\" ...more I LOVED this book!!! Seriously... all the feels. I fell in love with all of the characters especially Josh and Kristen =]. I really enjoyed Alex and Katie's relationship, it was so sweet and real. I most definitely cried and I really loved the ending. I only had one problem: (I'm going to try to say this without spoiling anything :) ) I wish the book focused more on the present and the relationship between Alex and Katie and not as much on Katie's negative past and a certain other person's point I LOVED this book!!! Seriously... all the feels. I fell in love with all of the characters especially Josh and Kristen =]. I really enjoyed Alex and Katie's relationship, it was so sweet and real. I most definitely cried and I really loved the ending. I only had one problem: (I'm going to try to say this without spoiling anything :) ) I wish the book focused more on the present and the relationship between Alex and Katie and not as much on Katie's negative past and a certain other person's point of view. Other than that it was fantastic!! ...more I am still one of those people that enjoys Nicholas Sparks books and movies. I really prefer to read the book before I watch the movie, so I've owned the movie since it came out but never watched it. This was the first TBR takedown book and I am happy to say this seems to be working well, and now I don't have to unhaul this book. I really enjoyed the story and the characters. The story is a typical story for him to write but I still liked it nonetheless, and particularly the letter at the end. No I am still one of those people that enjoys Nicholas Sparks books and movies. I really prefer to read the book before I watch the movie, so I've owned the movie since it came out but never watched it. This was the first TBR takedown book and I am happy to say this seems to be working well, and now I don't have to unhaul this book. I really enjoyed the story and the characters. The story is a typical story for him to write but I still liked it nonetheless, and particularly the letter at the end. Not going to lie I am just excited that I can watch this movie tonight! ...more This is my first Nicholas Sparks read & I loved it. More Romantic Suspense/Thriller than just straight Romance. Even though you have good idea of what\u2019s coming (even more so if like me you saw the movie first) the suspense is still there & has you on the edge of your seat waiting to see \u201cwill he find her & what will happen if he does\u201d. Initially I wasn\u2019t sure about the chapters seeing things from the husbands P.O.V, just really wanted to stay with Katie & Alex & their newly f This is my first Nicholas Sparks read & I loved it. More Romantic Suspense/Thriller than just straight Romance. Even though you have good idea of what\u2019s coming (even more so if like me you saw the movie first) the suspense is still there & has you on the edge of your seat waiting to see \u201cwill he find her & what will happen if he does\u201d. Initially I wasn\u2019t sure about the chapters seeing things from the husbands P.O.V, just really wanted to stay with Katie & Alex & their newly forming romance, but it really worked, it allowed you to see just what sort of sick psycho the man was & added to the suspense. The Twist at the very end after the ending (so to speak) may not be to everybodies liking, but I liked it, something a little different. ...more \u00bfOs cuento por qu\u00e9 todav\u00eda no hab\u00eda renunciado a leer a Nicholas Sparks? 1- Este escritor fue uno de los primeros que me contaron historias de amor un poquito m\u00e1s adultas. Fue a ra\u00edz de ver las adaptaciones de Un paseo para recordar y El diario de Noah que descubr\u00ed a Nicholas. Y me compr\u00e9 los libros. Y los le\u00ed y los disfrut\u00e9. Y mi cari\u00f1o por Nicholas fue en aumento. Y me pon\u00eda feliz cada vez que tomaba un libro suyo de la biblioteca. Pero un d\u00eda... rele\u00ed por tercera vez Un paseo para recordar y \u00bfOs cuento por qu\u00e9 todav\u00eda no hab\u00eda renunciado a leer a Nicholas Sparks? 1- Este escritor fue uno de los primeros que me contaron historias de amor un poquito m\u00e1s adultas. Fue a ra\u00edz de ver las adaptaciones de Un paseo para recordar y El diario de Noah que descubr\u00ed a Nicholas. Y me compr\u00e9 los libros. Y los le\u00ed y los disfrut\u00e9. Y mi cari\u00f1o por Nicholas fue en aumento. Y me pon\u00eda feliz cada vez que tomaba un libro suyo de la biblioteca. Pero un d\u00eda... rele\u00ed por tercera vez Un paseo para recordar y se acab\u00f3 la magia. Trat\u00e9 de releer El cuaderno de Noah y solo quer\u00eda llorar. Y trat\u00e9 de releer El guardi\u00e1n y odi\u00e9 todo cuanto hab\u00eda escrito. Sin darme cuenta, mi amor hab\u00eda desaparecido. No quedaba nada. Y despu\u00e9s de eso prob\u00e9 con otras obras del autor, como con Cuando te encuentre, y no le vi la gracia. 2- Este libro lo compr\u00e9 unas semanas despu\u00e9s de ver la pel\u00edcula. LA GRAN PEL\u00cdCULA. ALUCIN\u00c9 CON UN LUGAR DONDE REFUGIARSE. Fue todo un soplo de aire fresco. Una historia emotiva, preciosa, con unas actuaciones maravillosas, donde el actor sorprend\u00eda con un rol diferente, con un cuento de amor que era casi \u00e9pico. Vamos, pas\u00f3 a ser otra de mis pel\u00edculas favoritas. Compr\u00e9 el libro. Me lo guardaron en cajas y no pude leerlo. Le rescat\u00e9 hace un par de meses. Sab\u00eda que en esta etapa de mi vida ya no me iba a gustar. Y as\u00ed fue. 3- Lo empec\u00e9 con la mejor de las intenciones pero fue superior a mi. Seg\u00fan le\u00eda m\u00e1s lo odiaba. No pas\u00e9 de la p\u00e1gina 70. Solo pod\u00eda pensar en que me estaba arruinando una preciosa pel\u00edcula al obligarme a leer este libro. Que si, que de este original naci\u00f3 la adaptaci\u00f3n, pero me quedo con la adaptaci\u00f3n y yo tan feliz. Con el libro no puedo porque es m\u00e1s de lo mismo, porque es Nicholas Sparks con los mismos ingredientes de siempre, los mismos personajes de siempre, la misma psicolog\u00eda y pobre y lenta y sosa evoluci\u00f3n de siempre, la misma pluma de siempre. Resumiendo, que esta historia ya la he le\u00eddo. Y que en sus diferencias no me llama la atenci\u00f3n ni me hace querer seguirlas. Es que fue un suplicio leer esas 70 p\u00e1ginas y lo \u00fanico que me duele es haberme gastado dinero en este libro, para la pr\u00f3xima ya s\u00e9 que Nicholas y yo nunca m\u00e1s. 4- Este hombre siempre tiene personajes perfectos, romances lentos e ins\u00edpidos, atracciones que se saca de la manga, protagonistas militares, chicas que necesitan de un h\u00e9roe pero que son perfectamente mujeres de hoy, y todo es perfecto en el mundo de fantas\u00eda de Carolina del Sur. Para no sentir nada leyendo este libro y cogi\u00e9ndole mania a los personajes y a sus tontas y pr\u00e1cticas intenciones hacia el otro (Alex quiere una mam\u00e1 para sus hijos y Katie quiere... Katie no quiere nada pero se dejar\u00e1 querer... \u00bfno? Sobre todo si Jo le dice que su ex es un buen partido), me voy a leer o a suspirar por el enorme calor o... ver doramas entretenidos como Full house, que no ser\u00e1n lo m\u00e1s pero aportan algo, cosa que este libro y este autor, en mi no hace. [PD. Nombro Full house porque es el \u00faltimo k-drama que he visto, y es un cl\u00e1sico -2004- que dio pie a la comedia rom\u00e1ntica XD] http://mayuamoraprimeravista.blogspot... Aqu\u00ed fotos XD ...more Talk about heart pounding! It\u2019s like \"Hope Floats\" meets \"Sleeping with the Enemy\"! Great read! I couldn't put it down and now that I'm done with it I'm finding I want to go back and read it again. Sparks' characters were as vivid as they come; full of life, history and emotion. The aura that distends from Katie, it's like you could feel everything she went through. Sparks pulls you into his story and throws you into his characters' lives with an unbelievable sense of familiarity. What's great abo Talk about heart pounding! It\u2019s like \"Hope Floats\" meets \"Sleeping with the Enemy\"! Great read! I couldn't put it down and now that I'm done with it I'm finding I want to go back and read it again. Sparks' characters were as vivid as they come; full of life, history and emotion. The aura that distends from Katie, it's like you could feel everything she went through. Sparks pulls you into his story and throws you into his characters' lives with an unbelievable sense of familiarity. What's great about this novel is that you still have the love story (notice how I didn't say \"romance\"); you still have the buildup of the relationship and the adventure of not knowing where or how it's going to end up; but this time around you get a little stronger dose of what he delivered in \"The Guardian.\" (If you haven't read that, you need to.) Sparks has written another thriller and he's nailed it. For one of the first times, you can actually feel yourself hating one of Sparks' characters. It's crazy to believe that somewhere out in Hollywood, even before this novel was written, the rights to adapt it into a movie had been purchased. It will be interesting to see who's going to live up to the amazing cast Sparks has come up with yet again. A+ Mr. Sparks. ...more I absolutely loved this book. I read it as I'm going to see the movie. And I hope they do the book justice as it is a beautiful heart warming book. It has you gripped on every page right to the end. Then you say OMG I never thought of that!! The characters are lovely and very believable you feel lie you are there living the whole thing with them. I really enjoyed it and would recommend to all. Que hartada a llorar me he pegado con este libro. Esa carta del final me ha partido el alma. Siempre digo lo mismo: \u201cNing\u00fan libro de Sparks, que luego termino llorando como una magdalena\u201d Y siempre caigo en la trampa. Es un bucle infinito. Have you ever been in a difficult situation and removing yourself to a new state of love and happiness was the only way to escape? Safe Haven by Nicholas Sparks displays the fearful journey from an abusive, sickening world to a relationship of love and utter peace. I was left in awe as each page turned was a new heart-wrenching challenge for the characters. The three main characters that faced life's burdens grew to become close to the readers heart. When Katie, the new mysterious women in town, Have you ever been in a difficult situation and removing yourself to a new state of love and happiness was the only way to escape? Safe Haven by Nicholas Sparks displays the fearful journey from an abusive, sickening world to a relationship of love and utter peace. I was left in awe as each page turned was a new heart-wrenching challenge for the characters. The three main characters that faced life's burdens grew to become close to the readers heart. When Katie, the new mysterious women in town, meets Alex, the widowed father of two, they both realized that despite their past hardships there was still a chance at love for them in the world. Being afraid and on the run, Katie put up a wall in the fear of ever letting someone in. She lived in the debris of an abusive, demanding, and sick marriage that sent her on a journey across the country with a new name and scars that were imprinted on her heart. With images of her marriage flashing through her mind, Katie was unable to feel the love for someone new until, with the help of her new friend Jo, she meets Alex and his family. Jo teaches Katie the lesson of bravery and trust as she reveals secrets of her past and allows Katie to move toward a new life of happiness. Is Jo really who Katie thinks she is and although she feels she is free, will Katie's past hunt her down and destroy the life she made returning her to the sick walls of her essence? This suspenseful story of love, fear, and safety, made me realize that trusting others is not always easy and no matter how much time has passed, previous burdens can haunt you until you have received full closure from the fearful situation. I highly recommend this story and the message you are left with will lead you to question your own life and the people you believe you can trust the most. ...more 5 million stars! This book touched my heart, it was a truly wonderful read! I really loved Katie, she was so strong, brave, smart, kind and compassionate, and Alex was just perfect; a great dad with a gentle heart. They had both suffered tragedy in their lives and it really tugged on my heart strings. Their chapters together were so heart-warming and touching, (view spoiler) [ yet Kevin's chapters were dark and chilling, and his thought processes were sometimes disturbing! The way he kept referin 5 million stars! This book touched my heart, it was a truly wonderful read! I really loved Katie, she was so strong, brave, smart, kind and compassionate, and Alex was just perfect; a great dad with a gentle heart. They had both suffered tragedy in their lives and it really tugged on my heart strings. Their chapters together were so heart-warming and touching, (view spoiler) [ yet Kevin's chapters were dark and chilling, and his thought processes were sometimes disturbing! The way he kept refering to the bible about the 'wrongdoings' of Katie - how he called her stupid and selfish - made me so angry; I hate him. (hide spoiler) ] . I loved Josh and Kristen and Jo, I loved Katie's crappy little house and the way she made it her own, I loved how much Alex cared for his children and also his late wife, and I loved the beautiful letters. I just loved everything about it, it had so much emotion and feeling and I can't recommend it enough! It was romantic (obviously, haha), but also surpirisingly suspensful and thrilling (Sparks seems to have diverted from his usual structure), and the combination of the two meant that the only time I wasn't reading it was when I was at college or sleeping. Read it, now. ...more<---C>Nicholas Sparks</---C>", "Title": "Safe Haven"},
