{"Comments": "3.5 stars <---A>Sarah Addison Allen</---A> is one of the very few ladies' lit authors I can tolerate. Her stories are sweet and fluffy and utterly insubstantial, but they're nice when you need a break from heavier fare. I always know what I'm asking for when I pick one up, so I can't complain too much afterward that they're sappy and implausible. That would be like ordering vanilla ice cream and then complaining that it wasn't mashed potatoes and gravy. Or buying a Britney Spears CD and then wondering why it 3.5 stars Sarah Addison Allen is one of the very few ladies' lit authors I can tolerate. Her stories are sweet and fluffy and utterly insubstantial, but they're nice when you need a break from heavier fare. I always know what I'm asking for when I pick one up, so I can't complain too much afterward that they're sappy and implausible. That would be like ordering vanilla ice cream and then complaining that it wasn't mashed potatoes and gravy. Or  buying a Britney Spears CD and then wondering why it doesn't sound like AC (<---B>lightning bolt</---B>) DC. Anyway, my point is that you go into a Sarah Allen story knowing it's a confection, and you just happen to have a sweet tooth at the moment. Allen uses magical realism in a light and playful way, as a means of helping the characters have that happy ending we all want for them. This particular story features an eight-foot-tall grandfather who spends a lot of time checking the dryer for frogs. (Made ya curious, didn't I?) You'll also meet a family whose men have a genetic anomaly that makes it uncomfortable for them to go out after dark.<---F> (Hint: They're NOT werewolves or vampires</---F>.) Also, there's some wallpaper that functions sort of like those mood rings that were popular in the 70s, only cooler. And a delightful baked goods theme that will make you swear you can smell vanilla and cinnamon. This is the third Allen book I've read. I have only one ongoing gripe, and it seems to be the one thing that keeps me from nudging my ratings up to four stars. She spends a lot of time building a back story for her characters, getting me really interested in the secrets of their past and making me curious about their futures. Then, when all has been revealed and it's time to tie up the story, she hits me with a bang-boom-bomb-bing-wham-bam-damn-thank-you-ma'am ending that leaves me feeling like the entire book was just foreplay. Ya know? All that buildup, and THIS is how it ends?! In spite of that one complaint, (not to mention the gooey romantic barfy stuff), I still recommend the books for a certain mood. Why? Because while I'm sitting there in my sugar coma with a big goofy grin on my face wondering what just happened, I'm also greedily looking forward to my next fix. ...more This should really be 2.5 stars, but I give the benefit of the extra .5 for the entertainment value. There were things I really loved about this book, and there were things I really didn't like about this book. Mainly, I loved Addison Allen's descriptions of both the normal (the small town,<---M> the brown leaves</---M>, the lake, etc) and the magical elements (Win's warmth, Stella's husband's black powdery soot left on the legs and necks of other women, Sawyer seeing/sensing sweets, the wallpaper, etc). She This should really be 2.5 stars, but I give the benefit of the extra .5 for the entertainment value. There were things I really loved about this book, and there were things I really didn't like about this book. Mainly, I loved Addison Allen's descriptions of both the normal (the small town, the brown leaves, the lake, etc) and the magical elements (Win's warmth, Stella's husband's black powdery soot left on the legs and necks of other women, Sawyer seeing/sensing sweets, the wallpaper, etc). She has an amazing ability to bring the reader in with those senses and it's easy to see and feel everything the characters do. Sadly, the characters were so one-dimensional I couldn't connect with any of them. I fell easily into Addison Allen's world, but felt nothing for the characters within. I felt like she had two great ideas for two different books (Julia's sort of chick-lit story and Emily's sort of young adult romance story) but didn't have either flushed out enough to stand alone so she pushed them together. It kind of works with back story, but the characters remain flat. Julia's mental health issues feels forced and just there without really being part of the character, a surface element. We get no real emotion from Emily whose mother, and only family she knew of, died. It's just something that has happened to her, and she acts as if her mother is just off in France or somewhere else while she's been sent to the grandfather she never knew. Addison Allen says that Emily and her mother were close, but she never really gets that across from the character's POV, the reader never feels it. If Addison Allen took as much time with her character development as she did with her descriptions of the world around them, this would have been a five-star book. ...more Two Christmases ago, my co-worker gave me a book. No surprise there, but the particular book she presented me with was unlike anything I had ever come across before. The book was Garden Spells by Sarah Addison Allen and the genre was magical realism. As soon as I started in, I was lost. I was in love. Upon sinking into the story, I found myself awash in mouth-watering food, complicated yet beautiful relationships, and surrounded by intriguing people with a little touch of magic. Did I mention Two Christmases ago, my co-worker gave me a book. No surprise there, but the particular book she presented me with was unlike anything I had ever come across before. The book was Garden Spells by Sarah Addison Allen and the genre was magical realism. As soon as I started in, I was lost. I was in love. Upon sinking into the story, I found myself awash in mouth-watering food, complicated yet beautiful relationships, and surrounded by intriguing people with a little touch of magic. Did I mention that the book was set in the south? Yes. Perfection. So it should come as no surprise when I say I was somewhat eagerly anticipating Allen's newest release <+++>The Girl Who Chased the Moon</+++> . I didn't know much about it, expect that it would be centered on BBQ and set in a small North Carolina town. But knowing who the author was, I knew it was gonna be good. I really didn't need much more incentive than that. Following the death of her beloved, activist mother Dulcie, <---C>Emily Benedict</---C> is sent to live with the grandfather she never knew she had in the small town of Mullaby, NC. It's hard enough to find your place as a teen in a new town without discovering that your grandfather is actually a shy, reclusive giant, and that your seemingly perfect mother was really quite cruel and openly disliked as a teenager. Needless to say Emily is feeling a little lost and sorely overwhelmed when she meets the strange and decidedly attractive Win Coffey whose cryptic references to their 'history' leave Emily rather curious about the past and determined to uncover the secrets surrounding her mother. Living next door to Emily is Julia Winterson - baker extraordinaire and a woman who is counting the days until she can escape Mullaby. Having experienced a fairly troubled and turbulent youth in Mullaby herself, Julia is quick to welcome Emily and is one of the few who don't hold her mother's actions against her. Emily is sure there is something special about Julia - hoping she will be able to lend some understanding to her mother's history - and their first meeting only confirms it: Julia laughed. It was a great laugh, and hearing it was like stepping into a spot of sunshine. That she came bearing cake seemed oddly fitting. It was like she was made of cake, light and pretty and decorated on the outside -- with her sweet laugh and pink streak to her hair -- but it was anyone's guess what was on the inside. Emily suspected it might be dark. Don't you want to meet this woman? I know I do. Once again Sarah Addison Allen has ensnared me with her airy and enchanting storytelling. Emily was sweet and endearing in her curious, youthful confusion but I absolutely adored Julia. Adored. Admired. Aime . I want to spend the day baking with her or just follow her around in the hope that some of her loveliness would magically rub off on me. Her story alone is too beautiful for words and had me constantly gasping with delight. What's more, the town of Mullaby itself was also practically fit to bursting with quirky and distinct characters - all southern and all steeped in tradition and BBQ. How could you not love a place where people can see trails of butter and sugar in the air, ghost lights dancing in the trees, and wallpaper that changes according to your mood? Not to mention the constant references to Julia's delectable cakes that just might have sent me racing to the kitchen. I just knew it was gonna be good. And it was. ...more This novel contains two parallel storylines: 1). The former high school misfit, the boy she couldn't have and the secret that lies between them and 2). A teenaged orphan that arrives in town and realises her mother wasn't always the person she thought she was. Although this novel is apparently aimed at an adult audience, I felt it would be better suited to be labelled as young adult. There wasn't really a lot happening in this book. At times it was boring and a bit of a chore to get through. The This novel contains two parallel storylines: 1). The former high school misfit, the boy she couldn't have and the secret that lies between them and 2). A teenaged orphan that arrives in town and realises her mother wasn't always the person she thought she was. Although this novel is apparently aimed at an adult audience, I felt it would be better suited to be labelled as young adult. There wasn't really a lot happening in this book. At times it was boring and a bit of a chore to get through. The novel lacked plot and character development and the ending was extremely predictable. The storylines weren't original - half the novel ripped off Twilight. A teenage boy named Win, along with the other males in his family never leave the house at night because of a freakish skin condition (no they don't sparkle, they glow in the dark, though that's not far off) and Win has a habit of sneaking into the bedroom of the girl he likes at night to watch her sleep. That was creepy and stalkerish in Twilight and it's still creepy and stalkerish now! Authors reading this review: please take note and quit using this in your novels. I recommend this novel to teenage girls aged 12-16 that are looking for a light read for the beach that doesn't require much of your attention. Two stars! ...more <+++>The Girl Who Chased the Moon</+++> Five stars: Another delicious, heart felt read from Sarah Addison Allen. What is home to you? A comfortable, warm place filled with loving faces? Is it the scent of freshly baked cookies or pie wafting through the air? A worn blanket draped across a favorite chair and a good book? The soft, silky touch of a beloved pet\u2019s fur? Finding shelter in the protective embrace of a lover? Home is more than just a place it is a destination where you feel safe; someplace where all The Girl Who Chased the Moon Five stars: Another delicious, heart felt read from Sarah Addison Allen. What is home to you? A comfortable, warm place filled with loving faces? Is it the scent of freshly baked cookies or pie wafting through the air? A worn blanket draped across a favorite chair and a good book? The soft, silky touch of a beloved pet\u2019s fur? Finding shelter in the protective embrace of a lover? Home is more than just a place it is a destination where you feel safe; someplace where all is right with the world; a spot you always want to be. The Girl Who Chased the Moon is all about finding that elusive point called home. What I Liked: *As with all the Sarah Addison Allen books this story is inhabited by characters that are genuine and amiable. I feel like they are old friends after hearing their stories, that manage to reach out and touch my heart. Julia, has unwillingly returned back to her home town of Mullaby, North Carolina after twenty years, to put her father\u2019s business in order and sell it for a profit. She is filled with regrets and unsettled; unsure of where her home and heart lie. She has no intention of staying or getting mired in her past. A past that involved pink hair, self inflicted cuts, one night with a handsome boy named, Sawyer, a teenage pregnancy, and the difficult adoption of her tiny, infant daughter. Since then she patiently bakes her deliciously, fragrant cakes and pies hoping that the sweet scent of vanilla and sugar will guide her daughter back to her one day. Emily, is a sixteen year old girl, reeling from the death of her mother. She comes to Mullaby to live with her grandfather, a man she has never met, nor even knew existed. Emily discovers that the town of Mullaby holds a grudge against her mother for a past transgression. Somehow she must right a wrong, and make the people of the town see her mother was not the girl of her youth. Her grandfather Vance is an eight foot tall man, who is adrift in a sea of loneliness. He is constantly peering into the dryer hoping to reconnect with the ghosts of his past. His a kind hearted giant, whom I felt needed a big hug. Then there is Sawyer, the man that has always been in love with Julia but never acted on his feelings. After a failed marriage, his heart still holds a soft spot for Julia in spite of their troubled past. He has a unique ability that allows him to see the glittery, sugary trails of sweet aromas. Winn, is a sixteen year old boy with a big, mystical secret. He is eager to have someone see his true self. He just might know a thing or two about the mysterious Mullaby lights that appear when the moon shines. *I love the writing. Ms. Allen\u2019s books always have fantastic characters, magnificent, detailed descriptions and just a wisp of magic. I can almost smell the tantalizing food scents; buttery vanilla, bold, tangy, smokey BBQue, and fragrant cakes and pies. If only those scrumptious aromas could drift out of the pages. *The story is a complex chorus of many people. Each lends their own voice to the blend and they all come together so sweetly and subtly into the perfect, poignant story, just like a beautiful melody. Julia's song is making peace with old ghosts and learning to open her heart and love. While Sawyer's tune is about reaching out and grabbing his heart\u2019s desire. Emily and Winn harmonize to find their identities. Emily rectifies her mother's past and establishes her place in the town. Winn reveals to Emily his true self and in her eyes he finds the acceptance he so desperately sought. Together they hear the promising notes of a new beginning. Vance learns to sing with Emily and he is able to turn forward and peer into the future instead of his past. In the end there is harmony and home for all. And The Not So Much: *This story builds with such emotion. I wanted to savor it like you would a piece of cake. Slowly eating each scrumptious bite; saving the rich, velvety, chocolate frosting for the end, to relish the melting taste of the heavenly, sweet cocoa. Just as I got to the sugary creaminess, the moment Julia\u2019s glittery cake aroma is answered, the story ends and it is snatched away. I wanted to revel in all that decadent emotion. I felt robbed...please tell me there will be a continuation and I can read Maddie\u2019s story. *I was a bit disappointed with the whole story line behind the Mullaby lights and the moon. It was just one element that I just couldn't relate to. It is a good premise but Winn and Emily\u2019s story didn\u2019t speak to me the same way that Julia and Sawyer\u2019s story did. The next time you are feeling down and need a cozy escape, pick up the Girl Who Chased the Moon. In its pages you will meet some new friends, who will invite you to Mullaby for a decadent piece of cake and a sweet story about the journey to home. You will laugh and shed a tear and leave the town knowing your friends have found their own comfortable corner in the world. Favorite Quotations: \"He not only saw her, he accepted her.\" \"We get to choose what defines us.\" \"Adolescence is like having just enough light to see the step in front of you and no further.\" \"I am always homesick, I just don't know where home is.\" \"The broken circle of history should have let all the animosity pour out but it didn't.\" ...more I very much enjoyed The Girl Who Chased the Moon by Sarah Addison Allen as Emily and Julia's storylines were both engaging and refreshing to read. All of the characters in this story were likeable and the plot was infused with steady-paced intrigue and moments of mystical enchantment that kept me captivated the entire time. In this story, seventeen year old Emily Benedict arrives in Mullaby, North Carolina, a town filled with misfits, after the death of her mother Dulcie. When she comes to town I very much enjoyed The Girl Who Chased the Moon by Sarah Addison Allen as Emily and Julia's storylines were both engaging and refreshing to read. All of the characters in this story were likeable and the plot was infused with steady-paced intrigue and moments of mystical enchantment that kept me captivated the entire time. In this story, seventeen year old Emily Benedict arrives in Mullaby, North Carolina, a town filled with misfits, after the death of her mother Dulcie. When she comes to town to live with her grandfather, she soon realizes her mother's past is filled with scandal and regret, and Emily struggles to understand the mom she thought she knew and the town that hasn't let go of the past. Parallel to this, thirty-four year old Julia Winterson is counting the days she can leave Mullaby as she is forced to settle some unresolved debt after the passing of her father a couple years prior. As she works to get back to the life she left, she finds there's a part of her past that is waiting to resurface and hopefully offer a different outcome than the last time she was in Mullaby. One thing these both girls have in common\u2026 They are both chasing the moon in search of happiness\u2026 Great read that will leave you wanting to read more about Emily/Win and Julia/Sawyer, but not because the story abruptly ends, but rather because you come to care about the people of Mullaby. Love it! A year of full moons\u2026. Full Moon in January: People tend to eat, drink and play too much during this full moon. Full Moon in February: People tend to dream of places they'd rather be during this full moon. Full Moon in March: People tend to do something daring during this full moon. Full Moon in April: People tend to hope this month and some ask their love to marry during this full moon. Full Moon in May: People tend to think they are most attractive during this full moon. Full Moon in June: People tend to seek forgiveness during this full moon. Full Moon in July: People tend to buck heads during this full moon. Full Moon in August: People tend to feel restless and overwhelmed during this full moon. Full Moon in September: People tend to be moody during this full moon. Full Moon in October: People tend to obtain insight during this full moon. Full Moon in November: People tend to complete something they've procrastinated during this full moon. Full Moon in December: People tend to sleep best during this full moon. ...more I enjoyed this, it's a little book filled with unusual magic :) I loved the house and it's strange wallpaper, I loved the Grandfather, I loved the whole plot! This is a book I'll probably keep on my shelf, rather than take it back to the second hand store for someone else to buy :) I enjoy reading books by Sarah Addison Allen. They are so comforting and familiar. This is the story of Emily, a young girl who has lost her mother, and returns to the town where her mother grew up. She goes to live with her grandfather who is a giant, over six feet tall. Emily is not exactly welcome in town because of the problems her mother caused so long ago. It also tells of various town folks, mainly focusing on Julia. You learn of her past and how this is impacting her future. Julia bakes I enjoy reading books by Sarah Addison Allen. They are so comforting and familiar. This is the story of Emily, a young girl who has lost her mother, and returns to the town where her mother grew up. She goes to live with her grandfather who is a giant, over six feet tall. Emily is not exactly welcome in town because of the problems her mother caused so long ago. It also tells of various town folks, mainly focusing on Julia. You learn of her past and how this is impacting her future. Julia bakes cakes and there is a particular reason she bakes cakes. Sarah Addison Allen is a food lover, there is no denying that. In each of her books I have read, food is a big focus in the book. In this one, you have a baker who bakes mouth-watering concoctions. After this story, I have a huge desire to make a hummingbird cake. This woman truly has a sweet tooth. Each of her stories has elements of magical realism - I loved the story of the wallpaper changing based on the moods of the occupant of the room, the reason that Emily 'chased the moon', etc. I listened to this one via audio. For the most part, the audio was just OK. The narrator changed her voice for the male characters in the book, and I didn't care the voice that was used. However, I had a family member visiting recently and I happened to be listening to the audio while making dinner. Family member (who is a huge book reader) loved the narrator and wants to start listening to audios now. She found it quite soothing to listen to someone read to her. Awesome! ...more This is the third novel by Allen that I've read, and I am happy to say they cannot be pigeonholed. There are two romances going on here, but the theme of the story is acceptance. The author is so skilled at characterization that I don't even notice it being done. These people simply seem to exist. I love Allen's way with words. \"It had probably been an opulent white at one time, but now it was gray, and its Gothic Revival pointed-arch windows were dusty and opaque. It was outrageously flaunting it This is the third novel by Allen that I've read, and I am happy to say they cannot be pigeonholed. There are two romances going on here, but the theme of the story is acceptance. The author is so skilled at characterization that I don't even notice it being done. These people simply seem to exist. I love Allen's way with words. \"It had probably been an opulent white at one time, but now it was gray, and its Gothic Revival pointed-arch windows were dusty and opaque. It was outrageously flaunting its age, spitting paint chips and old roofing shingles into the yard.\" There isn't much action in this plot, it's more about how people think of each other, and the exposition of the theme takes all the room. The little bit of magic included in the story is charming but doesn't really interfere with the believability. In this book, I think the magic is used metaphorically to stand for ideas. Though this isn't my preferred genre, I will be happy to read anything this author comes out with in the future. ...more I just want to live inside every single Sarah Addison Allen book. Seriously. I can't express how much I love the worlds and characters she creates. If those place actually existed I would be packing my bags and moving there. Oh goodness, again Sarah Addison Allen has written a charming book. Just enough magic, glitter and sugar. I loved every page.... I received an advance copy of this through First Reads, a program which consistently makes me happy. Allen is one of those authors who puts me in a pensive mood, like my brain has to digest her style and story for a bit before I can really decide what to do with it. I'm a fan of her magical realism, because they all seem rooted in a greater emotional arc for her characters. I am also willfully old-fashioned in my appreciation of her plotting. This book satifies my desire, left over from childhood, I received an advance copy of this through First Reads, a program which consistently makes me happy. Allen is one of those authors who puts me in a pensive mood, like my brain has to digest her style and story for a bit before I can really decide what to do with it. I'm a fan of her magical realism, because they all seem rooted in a greater emotional arc for her characters. I am also willfully old-fashioned in my appreciation of her plotting. This book satifies my desire, left over from childhood, for things to be put right - even the characters recognize that it's like a fairy story. So the good win and the slightly less savory are, if not punished, put in their places. I like this about the book, and about Allen as an author. Others will not. There are some who will point out that everything ties up a bit too neatly, that certain elements of character development strain the suspension of disbelief, that the writing style is overloaded with figurative language. My only complaint is that I can feel more story here - we're left in the middle of the characters' lives, and I want to know what happens next. I'm not altogether sure that is a complaint. ...more Verdadeiramente encantador! Opini\u00e3o em http://bioquimicadaleitura.blogspot.p... This was my first Sarah Addison Allen book, and I am utterly enchanted. I can't believe that I've waited so long to read this. I want to thank my dear friend Carrie for pushing these books until I finally listened and picked one up. I loved the mix of summer heat in a small town, delicious food, and magic. My only complaint is that the story didn't last long enough! I didn't want to leave the town of Mullaby or these characters. The Girl Who Chased The Moon follows two story lines that converge This was my first Sarah Addison Allen book, and I am utterly enchanted. I can't believe that I've waited so long to read this. I want to thank my dear friend Carrie for pushing these books until I finally listened and picked one up. I loved the mix of summer heat in a small town, delicious food, and magic. My only complaint is that the story didn't last long enough! I didn't want to leave the town of Mullaby or these characters. The Girl Who Chased The Moon follows two story lines that converge in the small town of Mullaby, North Carolina. Emily Benedict has just arrived in Mullaby to live with her grandfather, after the sudden death of her mother. Apparently Emily's mom Dulcie grew up in the small southern town, although she's never told Emily anything about her life there or the tragedy she left behind. Julia Winterson grew up in Mullaby and has only been back for the past year and a half, trying to get her finances in order after her father died and left his restaurant to her. Everyone in town has fallen in love with the delicious cakes that Julia bakes daily. But her goal is to stay another six months and escape back to her life in Baltimore, before she's forced to dig up any more of her past. Especially the part that involves a very persistent and charming man named Sawyer. I loved both Emily and Julia's stories and could have read a full book about both of them. Family secrets, love lost and found again, a giant, and wallpaper that changes with your moods, The Girl Who Chased The Moon was a perfect first read of 2015. Now I need to read all the books by this author! Love Triangle Factor: None Cliffhanger Scale: Standalone ...more I just loved this book. It's short, and I easily finished it in a day - well, I stayed up late to do it, but it was still in a day. I just couldn't put it down! While parts are predictible, it was a light hearted read and one that drew me into it within the first few pages. I rated it more of a 3, because it's not quite the same literary quality that I would rate higher, but if I categorized and rated on light hearted reads? It would be a 4... The author does an amazing job with character develop I just loved this book. It's short, and I easily finished it in a day - well, I stayed up late to do it, but it was still in a day. I just couldn't put it down! While parts are predictible, it was a light hearted read and one that drew me into it within the first few pages. I rated it more of a 3, because it's not quite the same literary quality that I would rate higher, but if I categorized and rated on light hearted reads? It would be a 4... The author does an amazing job with character development. You are instantly transported into what I envision is the south - that of deep rooted beliefs and not so easily forgotten transgressions. You can easily imagine the \"we do what we've always done because that's who we are\" mentality that stretches through this small town. While I am not much for \"magic\" sorts of things (other than Harry Potter, of course), the parts of this book that take on a fantasy element just add a special quality - like it's something that would happen in this time, in this place. It made me want to go out and dance with fireflies and laize about in a big Adirondack chair on a summer night with a big glass of lemondade. Romantic in a sense, but not just the characters - the entire setting, the entire moment in time, the essence of it all. EASY EASY read, and just put me in the best mood! :) ...more After reading and loving both of Sarah Addison Allen 's first two books I just went ahead and popped her on over to my auto-buy list and sat back to wait for THE GIRL WHO CHASED THE MOON. I was lucky enough to discover Garden Spells and The Sugar Queen only a few months ago and so it hasn't been that long a wait. But Garden Spells was perfectly delightful and The Sugar Queen was quite literally an example of the perfect book at the perfect time. I can't wait to re-read it again. So I found myself After reading and loving both of Sarah Addison Allen 's first two books I just went ahead and popped her on over to my auto-buy list and sat back to wait for THE GIRL WHO CHASED THE MOON. I was lucky enough to discover Garden Spells and The Sugar Queen only a few months ago and so it hasn't been that long a wait. But Garden Spells was perfectly delightful and The Sugar Queen was quite literally an example of the perfect book at the perfect time. I can't wait to re-read it again. So I found myself just about as anxious to find out what delights Ms. Allen had in store for us next as I would have been had I been forced to wait a year or more as is so often the case when I discover a debut author. I suppose that's just the way of things with the good ones. And, given how much I enjoy these reads, I wouldn't have it any other way. Emily Benedict is seventeen and motherless the day she moves in with her Grandpa Vance in the out of the way town of Mullaby, North Carolina. Having never been to the town where her mother grew up, Emily hopes to get to know her unusually tall grandfather and find out more about her extremely private mom. Her first night there, Emily meets her next door neighbor Julia Winterson, when she knocks on her door bearing a welcome cake and a warm smile to go with it. Julia is a native of Mullaby who hasn't been home in a long time and is now living a determinedly temporary existence there just long enough to sell her dead father's diner for a tidy profit and get the hell out of Dodge. She never loved it there and the memories are bad enough to have her faithfully marking off the days on her calendar. Chief among those memories is Sawyer Alexander. The golden boy of Mullaby. The soccer playing, scholarship getting, beautiful boy who seemed to understand and even like her for the briefest of moments in high school and then forgot all about her. Unfortunately, try as she might (and for various reasons), Julia was never able to quite forget about him. Now he haunts her bakery and upstairs apartment trying to reforge that old connection just as she evades his attempts in a desperate bid to leave the past where it belongs. But as Julia befriends Emily, they both discover truths that make their lives difficult in so many messy ways. As with her two previous novels, THE GIRL WHO CHASED THE MOON features a sleepy Southern town, a couple of young women in need of healing and a whole lapful of magic, loss, and longing. The narrative shifts back and forth between Emily and Julia's experiences and I have to say I wish it had spent more time with Julia. I've realized that with Allen's novels I tend to identify more with one of the two protagonists and in the past they have both been the characters with the most page time as well. But in this case I just didn't connect very well with Emily and her adventures with the infamous Coffey family, so her sections were a bit harder to get through. Not that the lovely writing is ever anything like a chore, but I kept speeding my way through those portions to get back to Julia and Sawyer and their wonderfully aching history. Because it was simply a delight to read and I found myself fingers crossed, full of hope for them. A favorite passage: As Julia took two towels out of her bag and spread them out on the sand, Emily shaded her eyes from the glare of sun and looked around. \"Were you meeting Sawyer here?\" \"No. Why?\" Julia asked as she shimmied out of her white shorts, revealing the bottom half of her red bikini. She left her gauzy long-sleeved shirt on over her red bikini top, though. \"Because he's coming this way.\" Julia immediately turned to see him walking down the beach toward them. Sawyer stood out too much to blend in anywhere, but the closest he came was here, with the sun and the sand. He was golden. A sun king. \"He's nice,\" Emily said wistfully. \"The moment I saw him, I knew he'd have an accent like that. I don't know why.\" \"Some men you know are Southern before they ever say a word,\" Julia said as she and Emily watched Sawyer's progress, helpless, almost as if they couldn't look away. \"They remind you of something good--picnics or carrying sparklers around at night. Southern men will hold doors open for you, they'll hold you after you yell at them, and they'll hold on to their pride no matter what. Be careful what they tell you, though. They have a way of making you believe anything, because they say it that way .\" \"What way?\" Emily asked as she turned to her, intrigued. \"I hope you never find out,\" she said. \"You've been spoken to that way ?\" \"Yes, she said softly, just as Sawyer stopped at their towels. And that's why I love Sarah Addison Allen books. Because, like Sawyer's smile and Julia's cakes, they make me feel wistful and warm, sated and full of good things. This book was just as well written as her books always are, but I think it suffered a bit from uneven pacing and the unfortunate placement of the more compelling storyline in the background. That said, I was captivated with Julia's story. She was an incredibly sympathetic character and I wanted to sit on the banks of Piney Woods Lake with her, eating apple stack cake, talking about Southern men, and worrying about nothing at all. ...more Charming novel of second chances in small-town North Carolina. I had just recently purchased this book and decided on reading it since I was struggling with my current read. This was a first time read of this author and I found that this was light enough to keep me from going into a reading slump. I am glad that I had this one on hand. Parts of it reads more like a YA than an adult book, but it had a good mix and I found that it was very fluid. Synopsis Emily Benedict came to Mullaby, North Carolina, hoping to solve at least some of the riddles surrounding he I had just recently purchased this book and decided on reading it since I was struggling with my current read. This was a first time read of this author and I found that this was light enough to keep me from going into a reading slump. I am glad that I had this one on hand. Parts of it reads more like a YA than an adult book, but it had a good mix and I found that it was very fluid. Synopsis Emily Benedict came to Mullaby, North Carolina, hoping to solve at least some of the riddles surrounding her mother\u2019s life. Such as, why did Dulcie Shelby leave her hometown so suddenly? And why did she vow never to return? But the moment Emily enters the house where her mother grew up and meets the grandfather she never knew\u2014a reclusive, real-life gentle giant\u2014she realizes that mysteries aren\u2019t solved in Mullaby, they\u2019re a way of life: Here are rooms where the wallpaper changes to suit your mood. Unexplained lights skip across the yard at midnight. And a neighbor bakes hope in the form of cakes. Everyone in Mullaby adores Julia Winterson\u2019s cakes\u2014which is a good thing, because Julia can\u2019t seem to stop baking them. She offers them to satisfy the town\u2019s sweet tooth but also in the hope of rekindling the love she fears might be lost forever. Flour, eggs, milk, and sugar . . . Baking is the only language the proud but vulnerable Julia has to communicate what is truly in her heart. But is it enough to call back to her those she\u2019s hurt in the past? Can a hummingbird cake really bring back a lost love? Is there really a ghost dancing in Emily\u2019s backyard? The answers are never what you expect. But in this town of lovable misfits, the unexpected fits right in. I thought that there was a lot going on in this book, lots of magical and mysterious elements. Some of this however made the story feel a little unrealistic, but despite that I really enjoyed the story as a whole. There are several different perspectives in this book so you are getting involved with the lives of many different people. I think that it kept the story more upbeat and it did not become confusing while switching to different people. I did find some things that were kind of left unexplained and I am not sure if there is a sequel coming or not, but it would be nice to have an answer for my questions. So we will see. I did like the characters a lot. Emily was a little less relatable since she was a teenager, but she was still very likable and she had to put up with quite a bit, and despite that she stayed pretty level headed so readers do not have to deal with a lot of teen drama. My favorite character though was Julia. I really related to her the most, she was much older and had been through quite a bit. I thought that she was a pretty strong character and also very smart and likeable as well. I recommend this to anyone who likes YA or adult contemporary with some magical elements mixed in. I look forward to more from this author in the future and I hope for a sequel to this book. I would love to spend some more time with these characters. ...more After the death of her mother Dulcie Shelby, seventeen year old, Emily Benedict moved to North Carolina to the town of Mullaby to live with her grandfather Vance -aka the giant of Mullaby- whom she's never known about before. Curious as to why her mother never mentioned her time at home and she never came back to visit, Emily wants to learn about the obvious story lurking in this small town, and why some seem cold to her. Will she have to live with the sins of her mothers past? ...It's been almost After the death of her mother Dulcie Shelby, seventeen year old, Emily Benedict moved to North Carolina to the town of Mullaby to live with her grandfather Vance -aka the giant of Mullaby- whom she's never known about before. Curious as to why her mother never mentioned her time at home and she never came back to visit, Emily wants to learn about the obvious story lurking in this small town, and why some seem cold to her. Will she have to live with the sins of her mothers past? ...It's been almost 20 years since, once troubled teen, Julia Winterson has come back home to Mullaby. Only in town to settle her fathers debt since he died, Julia plans to leave as soon as possible. What happens when her cakes filled with hope and a regret from long ago comes back in the form of sexy smile and a second chance for happiness? Two women. Two different stories. Both chasing the moon. The Girl Who Chased the Moon was so cute and so charming that I absolutely loved it. The story line is simple but it's also incredibly irresistible. This is a love story but it's also something much much more. It's about finding a place when you feel so out of place. It's about regrets, mistakes, redemption, magic and mystery. This has a little bit of everything in a good read, the plot was intriguing, the writing is remarkable and the characters are confident and refreshing. Julia's story focuses on her regret all though reformed, haunted by memories of past mistakes. While Emily story focuses on magic, mystery and a mother that she thought she knew. The men in there lives, Sawyer and Win, equally won my heart, both filled with wonderful southern charm and sexy smiles. I think what I loved the most about it was that this wasn't a story that was overpowering, it's a very simple story of two women and the men in there lives but it left me believing in love, magic and most of all hope. Very Squeal-worthy, in fact I really hope we'll see more about Julia and Emily in the near future! All though this is targeted at adult readers, I think that YA readers would still appreciate this gem. Recommended to anyone looking for a feel good read. Enchanting, Endearing and Captivating. This is a beautiful love story that will touch your heart. ...more When Emily Benedict's mother dies, Emily goes to her old hometown to live with her grandfather Vance. As Emily searches for her mother's history, she becomes entangled with mysterious Win Coffey, who has secrets of his own. Meanwhile, Vance's neighbor Julia Winterson, bakes delicious concoctions and dreams of her past, of connections made but long broken. As with Allen's other novels, this one is light, charming, and faintly magical, but somehow, I didn't enjoy it as much. Partly it was because When Emily Benedict's mother dies, Emily goes to her old hometown to live with her grandfather Vance. As Emily searches for her mother's history, she becomes entangled with mysterious Win Coffey, who has secrets of his own. Meanwhile, Vance's neighbor Julia Winterson, bakes delicious concoctions and dreams of her past, of connections made but long broken. As with Allen's other novels, this one is light, charming, and faintly magical, but somehow, I didn't enjoy it as much. Partly it was because I was much more drawn to the Julia parts than to Emily and Win, especially once a plot element was revealed which reminded me far too much of Twilight . (No, nobody is a vampire, but there's an unmistakable similarity.) Allen is often compared to Alice Hoffman, but there's a depth of feeling and character in Hoffman's best which Allen so far hasn't attained. ...more This is pure magic!! There is a bit of magic in this book. And I adore the story. I love all the characters except for this annoying stepmom. The story is all about family secrets from generation to generation. This is an easy read and just amazing. The grandfather Vance reminds me of Roald Dahl's book the BFG, the big friendly giant. I love him he is so kind and the kind of grandfather anyone would like to have because he is just so good and really loves his family and his wife. When he tells the This is pure magic!! There is a bit of magic in this book. And I adore the story. I love all the characters except for this annoying stepmom. The story is all about family secrets from generation to generation. This is an easy read and just amazing. The grandfather Vance reminds me of Roald Dahl's book the BFG, the big friendly giant. I love him he is so kind and the kind of grandfather anyone would like to have because he is just so good and really loves his family and his wife. When he tells the story of his wife I was a bit teary eyed. I absolutely wanted Emily and Win to be together. Win's family secret blew me away. I didn't expected that. The turn of events was really something. I just can't stop reading this till I find all the answers to my curiosity. Emily is adorable there's something in her that amazes me. I love love Win for me he is one dashing boy! Very mysterious and well mannered kid. Grandpa Vance's revelation about what really happened before was shocking (view spoiler) [on how Emily's mom take all the blame for Logan's suicide, the thing about them glowing (btw it is very cool!) the exposure and all, her mom was not really the way people think she is (hide spoiler) ] Their story reminds me of Romeo and Juliet, family feud thing but in a quite different and magical way this is. Julia on the other hand was this lady who was her own battles to fight. And I think in the end she has found a home right back where she really did come from. Sawyer was kind of funny, I like him and I think he really adores Julia. I love that they ended up being together. again! (view spoiler) [The lost daughter wooohh that comes as a surprise to me, all the while I thought Emily was their long lost daughter but it turned out it was really someone else. I just wish that there are more about the daughter and her reunion with her mom (hide spoiler) ] The ending was a blast everything went very well. Emily and Win together I love! Grandpa and Emily belongs to each other together and I love how they spend each time together. Julia never left and have found solace in Sawyer again. (view spoiler) [The daughter I was excited to read the story about her life. I was expecting but damn! There isn't any. I just wish there could be more I wanna know what happen! (hide spoiler) ] Book was amazing. I love it. I wish I have the changing wallpaper too and some Mullaby lights that is. HAHA! ...more Emily is 17 and her mother has recently died. She has to live in a small town with her only relative, her rich old grandfather who she'd never met or knew existed. Emily's mother had left town in the midst of a scandal right after high school. Julia had been an outcast in high school and bullied by Emily's mother. Twenty years later, Emily and Julia are neighbours and is one of Emily's few friends. Sawyer is still sniffing after Julia ... they had a one night stand in high school and neither has f Emily is 17 and her mother has recently died. She has to live in a small town with her only relative, her rich old grandfather who she'd never met or knew existed. Emily's mother had left town in the midst of a scandal right after high school. Julia had been an outcast in high school and bullied by Emily's mother. Twenty years later, Emily and Julia are neighbours and is one of Emily's few friends. Sawyer is still sniffing after Julia ... they had a one night stand in high school and neither has forgotten each other even though both have moved on and away over the last 20 years. Without giving any spoilers, here are something of the things I had a hard time with: * Emily's wallpaper in her bedroom keeps changing * The Coffey men can't go out after dark and try to keep it a secret as to why * Emily's grandfather is a giant who keeps looking in the dryer * Sawyer has a special craving for sweets The ending wrapped up too cleanly for me. Plus this story was too \"magical\" for me. I guess it's not my kind of book. I enjoyed the writing style and that's why kept me going. I doubt I'll read any more of her books, though. Blog review: http://www.teenaintoronto.com/2011/04... ...more I'm so pleased to see that Sarah Addison Allen came back to her magical writing as she did in Garden Spells . This woman has such an incredible knack for describing sight, sound and feelings with food. What better combination can a book have than love and sugar?! Combine some magic, lots of romance, a bit of mystery, some elusive lights glowing in the woods, tasty sweets and what do you have? The perfect recipe called The Girl Who Chased The Moon . And on a side note...man alive, Sawyer to me was I'm so pleased to see that Sarah Addison Allen came back to her magical writing as she did in Garden Spells . This woman has such an incredible knack for describing sight, sound and feelings with food. What better combination can a book have than love and sugar?! Combine some magic, lots of romance, a bit of mystery, some elusive lights glowing in the woods, tasty sweets and what do you have? The perfect recipe called The Girl Who Chased The Moon . And on a side note...man alive, Sawyer to me was the same Sawyer from the show Lost. Hot dog! Woo-wee! Hubba hubba! ...more Couple of thoughts: A beautiful writing voice. I savored the words and reveled in the setting. All my senses were engaged. A sweet story with a natural tension to carry the story forward. It had me turning pages gently and consistently. Lovely and quirky characters. Can't wait to discover more of this author's work. Not exactly what I was expecting. Sweet, but strange. I found it difficult to suspend my disbelief which affected my enjoyment, although I did enjoy it overall, just not as much as I might have if I'd been able to buy into the story more. Not sure whether I would read any more by Sarah Addison Allen. A good southern chick-lit. I will have to read some more of Allen. Livro m\u00e1gico que n\u00f3s transporta para outro mundo! Here two very different women discover how to find their place in the world\u2026no matter how out of place they feel... That blurb excerpt is a little lame, and doesn't do the story justice. I would hesitate to call this urban fantasy, because the setting isn't particularly urban (sort of small-town Southern) and the fantasy is less fantasy than ... a touch of magical realism, basically. But it is the story of two women, one 17 (Emily) and one in her thirties (Julia). Emily is struggling with her mot Here two very different women discover how to find their place in the world\u2026no matter how out of place they feel... That blurb excerpt is a little lame, and doesn't do the story justice. I would hesitate to call this urban fantasy, because the setting isn't particularly urban (sort of small-town Southern) and the fantasy is less fantasy than ... a touch of magical realism, basically. But it is the story of two women, one 17 (Emily) and one in her thirties (Julia). Emily is struggling with her mother's death (particularly relevant to me) and moving to a new place to stay with a grandfather she's never met; Julia, who lives next door, is trying to figure out if Mullaby is where she belongs, and if so, who she is if she belongs there. (Julia bakes. I love that, for reasons obvious to anybody who knows me. She bakes cake a day; excessive, but points for endurance. =) It's a really nice read; the touch of oddness in the atmosphere, the mystery of the Mullaby lights and of why the men of the Coffey family never come out at night, the mystery of why Emily's mother is so hated by the people of the town that it filters down to Emily herself even now... It all just fits together very nicely. Julia and Emily form a bond based on Emily's understated yearning for a person to fill the empty motherspace in her life, and Julia's understated yearning for the daughter she doesn't have; I like that relationship, and how it plays out. I stayed up all night reading it, and I've been thinking about it off and on today, which speaks pretty well for its staying power. The men in the book were present but mostly cyphers: Win Coffey, whose \"falling in love with\" Emily seemed far more about himself than about her; Sawyer Alexander, whose love for Julia was both belated and stalkerish but ultimately kind of sweet; Morgan Coffee and Grandpa Vance, whose lives were far more about the past than about the present. But overall, I really enjoyed the way the characters were allowed to grow and change over the course of the novel, and I liked the writer's style. I might read it again. ...more This was another magical and beautiful story by Sarah Addison Allen, filled with likeable characters. After her mothers death, Emily is moving to Mullaby to live with a grandfather she never knew. She soon finds out that the small town is filled with misfits; there is for example her grandfather the giant and the Coffey family that don't leave their house after dark. She realizes that she might have a hard time fitting in, as everybody seems to despise her late mother for the things she has done This was another magical and beautiful story by Sarah Addison Allen, filled with likeable characters. After her mothers death, Emily is moving to Mullaby to live with a grandfather she never knew. She soon finds out that the small town is filled with misfits; there is for example her grandfather the giant and the Coffey family that don't leave their house after dark. She realizes that she might have a hard time fitting in, as everybody seems to despise her late mother for the things she has done as a young girl and many people still look down on Emily for it. Julia is a thirty-something woman who grew up a troubled teenager in Mullaby, but has left town early on to change her life around and find happiness. She returned a couple of years ago after her fathers death, planning to run his restaurant for a while to save money in order to leave town yet again and open up her own bakery. But does she really need to leave to find real happiness? The thing I missed in this book, compared to Allens other two novels was a magical object leading one of the character through the story. The wallpaper was supposed to do the job but it just didn't have the personality of \"Garden Spells\" apple tree or the charm of \"The Sugar Queen's\" magic books. Other than that it was another enchanting read and I'm looking forward to Allens next offering ...more Acabei agora O Feiti\u00e7o da Lua e assim j\u00e1 li todos os livros dela publicados em portugu\u00eas. \u00c9 um livro lindo e m\u00e1gico, como a autora j\u00e1 nos habituou. Dificilmente o considero o melhor dos tr\u00eas. Mas nem por isso deixa de ser um romance muito giro. Para j\u00e1, tenho imensa pena que os livros dela sejam t\u00e3o pequenos. Apesar de ela escrever bem e estruturar bem as suas hist\u00f3rias, enredos e personagens queremos sempre mais e quando damos por n\u00f3s j\u00e1 n\u00e3o h\u00e1 mais p\u00e1ginas para ler. E n\u00e3o considero este livro o Acabei agora O Feiti\u00e7o da Lua e assim j\u00e1 li todos os livros dela publicados em portugu\u00eas. \u00c9 um livro lindo e m\u00e1gico, como a autora j\u00e1 nos habituou. Dificilmente o considero o melhor dos tr\u00eas. Mas nem por isso deixa de ser um romance muito giro. Para j\u00e1, tenho imensa pena que os livros dela sejam t\u00e3o pequenos. Apesar de ela escrever bem e estruturar bem as suas hist\u00f3rias, enredos e personagens queremos sempre mais e quando damos por n\u00f3s j\u00e1 n\u00e3o h\u00e1 mais p\u00e1ginas para ler. E n\u00e3o considero este livro o melhor dos tr\u00eas por uma simples raz\u00e3o. Ficou muita coisa no ar. Eu pessoalmente n\u00e3o sou f\u00e3 de finais em aberto, a n\u00e3o ser quando falamos de uma s\u00e9rie e h\u00e1 mais livros a seguir. E este livro, deixou-me um sentimento agridoce. Com tanta do\u00e7ura na hist\u00f3ria e nas personagens, tenho de lidar com um final daqueles? Ficou aqu\u00e9m das expectativas. J\u00e1 se tem ouvido falar na possibilidade de haver uma continua\u00e7\u00e3o para este livro e na minha opini\u00e3o para este livro ser realmente soberbo \u00e9 isso que lhe falta. Uma continua\u00e7\u00e3o \u00e0 altura da Sarah Allen e que d\u00ea um final doce a todas estas personagens de Mullaby. Mais uma vez fui surpreendida pela riqueza da imagina\u00e7\u00e3o da autora. E pela originalidade. Gostei. Fico com esperan\u00e7a que Mullaby n\u00e3o se fique por aqui. ...more", "Title": "The Girl Who Chased the Moon"},
