{"Comments": "This is when two and a half stars would be handy. I really couldn't stand this book for a couple of reasons when I first started reading it. It has a narrative voice that sounds like an oldish adult trying to sound like a five year old. Jones writes in staccato sentences that are occasionally poetic but more often tend toward a voice I will refer to as Tragic Deadpan, a voice that was also used to disastrous effect in Octavia Butler's writing. It is uniquely unenlightening on the plight of the P This is when two and a half stars would be handy. I really couldn't stand this book for a couple of reasons when I first started reading it. It has a narrative voice that sounds like an oldish adult trying to sound like a five year old. Jones writes in staccato sentences that are occasionally poetic but more often tend toward a voice I will refer to as Tragic Deadpan, a voice that was also used to disastrous effect in Octavia Butler's writing. It is uniquely unenlightening on the plight of the Papuan masses, though I can now rest assured that I should be glad not to be a member of that immiserated bunch. Worst of all, toward the beginning the novel reads like Dead Poets Society-type teacher schmaltz. (Being a teacher does sensitize one to the presumption that a good teacher is a combination of Erasmus,<---M> Steve Martin</---M>, and Mother Teresa.) But the ending was really good, in an inconclusive, life-sucks, Coetzee kind of way. I wasn't expecting it to go in quite the direction that it did; I certainly wasn't expecting it to be as horrifyingly violent, especially since a lot of it is more YA than Bookeresque. It also made me go directly on to my fourth attempt to read Bleak House , no small feat. Anyway, read it and let me know what you think. And maybe you can explain to me why everyone is saying this book takes place on some anonymous island, when we are told that (a) the village in question has copper mines nearby, (b) the place is within boating distance of the Solomons, and (c) the main character's father worked in Arawa? All of which narrow it down to Bougainville? ...<---F>more I *hated* this book</---F>. Let me tell you why: this novel read like this: look at this poor, uneducated island, and these poor, noble-savage ignorant and simple black people who are caught in the middle of a violent conflict between the savage black rebels who will eventually sell you out and the even more savage redskins (no joke, \"redskins\") who terrorize you, rape you, and machete you into pieces they will then feed to a pig. The violence, indeed, the whole setting, seemed wildly superfluous. The I *hated* this book. Let me tell you why: this novel read like this: look at this poor, uneducated island, and these poor, noble-savage ignorant and simple black people who are caught in the middle of a violent conflict between the savage black rebels who will eventually sell you out and the even more savage redskins (no joke, \"redskins\") who terrorize you, rape you, and machete you into pieces they will then feed to a pig. The violence, indeed, the whole setting, seemed wildly superfluous. The novel was like the literary version of that horrific Mel Gibson movie \"Apocolypto\" (or however you spell it) which was basically a 2 hour long version of \"ooooh, look at the savages and how savage they are! Aren't they savage!!\". To add insult to injury, the only \"civilizing\" force on the island is a white man who sprinkles down the magic of white civilization, imagination, and joy by reading Great Expectations. Look, I loved Tale of Two Cities, but Great Expectations? Come on. Someone needs to tell this author we've moved on from Colonialism (or at least we try to pretend we have). We call it \"Post-Colonialism\" now. We don't write about people of other races as though only we and our white civilization can save them, like they are only there for us to be saved, like they are only brutalized victims or brutal victimizers. And we definitely don't do it while self-righteously clinging to Great Expectations as a panacea for human understanding. Very \"Shakespeare in the Bush\" only without the actual intentions of finding anything out about the power of literature, instead it just reads as the power of the white ego. ...more Re-reading a firm favourite can be salutary, a cure for that breathless over-enthusiasm that marked the initial reaction. I'm not sure if anything can recapture the emotional punch in the solar plexus this book gave me the first time round. Appalled outrage at the fact that the civil war in the 1990s on the island of Bougainville which blasts devastation through the narrator's life was barely reported in any Western media ; shocked horror at the atrocities (all based on fact); painful, gut-wrench Re-reading a firm favourite can be salutary, a cure for that breathless over-enthusiasm that marked the initial reaction. I'm not sure if anything can recapture the emotional punch in the solar plexus this book gave me the first time round. Appalled outrage at the fact that the civil war in the 1990s on the island of Bougainville which blasts devastation through the narrator's life was barely reported in any Western media ; shocked horror at the atrocities (all based on fact); painful, gut-wrenching empathy with the main characters; that gasp of recognition as the plot unfurls; nail-biting concern for the fate of <---C>Matilda</---C>; deep tenderness and appreciation for a whole book dedicated to the power of narrative; joy at those few funny or uplifting moments; satisfaction at a well-rounded finish. A second read will usually reveal the stitching, it is rarely the same seamless slide. It can be like seeing the winches, pulleys and traps that are necessary to create a stage illusion, either your admiration for the cunning construction is confirmed, or you're left wondering how you ever fell for it. Or can it be a bit of both? What carries this novel is that absolutely convincing voice. That deceptively simple voice. Straightforward, unsentimental, modest, unsophisticated. Short, easy sentences in plain English. So easy to read that it's easy to overlook the pulleys and ropes. The narrator, Matilda, has a wondrous eye for the telling detail: how it's only the dogs and chickens that have names that hide from the helicopters with the people in the jungle. She reads body language, she sees her mother: When she dug in her heels all her heft raced to the surface of her skin. It was almost as if there were friction between her skin and the trailing air . Hardly the language of a 13 year old, but it slips through, it works, why ever not. Maybe it's the grown-up Matilda talking there. The plot is beautifully worked. What at first seems to risk turning into clich\u00e9, the transformative power of an inspirational teacher \u00e0 la Mr Chips or Mr Keating is first undermined and then complicated, turning into a Shakespearian tussle with guilt, revenge and redemption. One slight caveat: it founders a little after the shock of the worst atrocities. Matilda has to get out, how that is managed is just a little messy and wet and reminiscent of The Mill on the Floss. But that was my only quibble, not enough to really detract from the sum. What I did notice this time was that occasionally it got a bit preachy. Some of the Big Themes were flagged up a little too obviously, a bit too clearly signposted. It's not going to be one of those where you can discover more and more: it's all there on the surface for you, ready to pick up like a shell from the beach. That's fine: it is a wondrous thing of beauty with an iridescent, pearly sheen that will sit on your shelf and whisper to you again when you hold it to your ear. ...more This is a fascinating book ostensibly about an isolated island in the south Pacific and its inhabitants caught in a war over a copper mine. The lone white man on the island decides to help the children through the tension by reading from Great Expectations, and various repercussions follow. But, the story is so much more. In fact, I think I'll need to read it again to really understand it. Right now, I'd say it's about the power of stories and how they shape our lives; how they provide context a This is a fascinating book ostensibly about an isolated island in the south Pacific and its inhabitants caught in a war over a copper mine. The lone white man on the island decides to help the children through the tension by reading from Great Expectations, and various repercussions follow. But, the story is so much more. In fact, I think I'll need to read it again to really understand it. Right now, I'd say it's about the power of stories and how they shape our lives; how they provide context and meaning and explanation in circumstances that can provide none of this. This is one to keep on your shelf and go back to. The writing is powerful and the characters are hard to shake, even after you've finished the book. ...more <+++>Mister Pip</+++> written by <---A>Lloyd Jones</---A> focuses on the power of imagination and the ability of literature to act as an escape from reality. Mr. Watt is one of the few remaining white men after the war begins on the island of Bougainville. He becomes a teacher for the native children of the island and uses Charles Dicken's Great Expectations to teach the children about the importance of imagination. Pip is significant to Jones's novel because he is the main character of Great Expectations that Mr. Watt <+++>Mister Pip</+++> written by Lloyd Jones focuses on the power of imagination and the ability of literature to act as an escape from reality. Mr. Watt is one of the few remaining white men after the war begins on the island of Bougainville. He becomes a teacher for the native children of the island and uses Charles Dicken's Great Expectations to teach the children about the importance of imagination. Pip is significant to Jones's novel because he is the main character of Great Expectations that Mr. Watts uses to show the children about foreign ideas and morals. Mister Pip expresses the conditions of war, tension between people of different races, and the importance of education. Mister Pip emphasizes the relationship between Mr. Watts, a white man, and the native islanders of Bougainville, black people. There is lots of tenstion between the adult islanders, including Dolores, Matilda's mom, and Mr. Watts. Meanwhile the children of the island, especially Mr. Watts star pupil, Matilda, all get along with and look up to Mr. Watts. Mr. Watts uses Great Expectations to teach the children about a world they do not know. He shows them a world they can escape to. This is helpful as the island is in a time of war which largely affects the quality of life for the islanders. Living in a place of war largely consumes Jones's plot. The war turns friends against each other, such as when an islanders brother returns from the rambo camp and the community is \"scared the redskins [will] discover him, which would make [them] a rebel village\" (Jones 82). The fear of what the redskins are capable of keeps the islanders from offering help to the rebel group. This expresses the power of fear to readers and sheds light on a mostly unexperienced topic. Tension between white people and black people in this book provides commentary on not belonging. This is seen when Mr. Watts comments on \"being as lonely as the last mammoth\" (Jones 112). Both racial groups feel like they do not belong amongst the other due to emphasis that society puts on the color of their skin. This idea is also known in todays society, feeling different or having a sense that one does not belong is common and relatable. This intensifies the bond the reader feels to Mister Pip's characters and amplifies the books message of war, equality, and imagination. Lloyd Jone's book also comments on the importance of education. This idea is expressed through Mr. Pip who gives himself to the children of the island, and encourages the elders of the island to share their knowledge with the young. Jones emphasizes the importance of literature through Mr. Watts emphasis on the importance of Great Expectations. For example, Matilda comments that, \"No one had ever told us kids to look there [in a book] for a friend. Or that you could slip inside the skin of another. Or travel to another place. . .\" (Jones 24). Lloyd Jones uses his novel Mister Pip to bring the experience of living in war to america's door. He expresses the effect feeling different can have on a man's behavior, and analyses the way literature can help readers escape the misfortune of their lives. ...more My friend Rose, who also is reading \"Mister Pip,\" early on described the book as schmaltzy, and I am inclined to agree. Treacly might be another good word. And the book often comes across as condescending toward anyone who isn't white, though I'm sure Lloyd Jones didn't mean for it to be. If \"Mister Pip\" is ever turned into a movie, it's a given that the role of Mr. Watts will go to Robin Williams, in his inspiring-teacher mode but wearing that fucking clown nose from \"Patch Adams.\" Without givin My friend Rose, who also is reading \"Mister Pip,\" early on described the book as schmaltzy, and I am inclined to agree. Treacly might be another good word. And the book often comes across as condescending toward anyone who isn't white, though I'm sure Lloyd Jones didn't mean for it to be. If \"Mister Pip\" is ever turned into a movie, it's a given that the role of Mr. Watts will go to Robin Williams, in his inspiring-teacher mode but wearing that fucking clown nose from \"Patch Adams.\" Without giving too much about \"Mister Pip\" away, the only consolation for those of us who dislike Robin Williams would be Mr. Watts' ultimate fate. That actually might make the movie worth seeing. Also, and this is just a pet peeve of mine, but I'm getting pretty tired of supposedly inspiring novels that focus on the act of reading and how much literature enhances our lives. Look, I know being a dedicated reader is something of a rarity these days, but that doesn't justify the number of books out there that glorify the act of reading. Just as we don't need dozens upon dozens of movies about film-making nor do we need countless television shows about the production of television shows, we also don't need this many books about reading. It comes across as book porn, and it's wearying. OK, rant over. Despite all my complaints, \"Mister Pip\" is skillfully written, with some nice descriptions of Matilda's island and the people who live on it. I just didn't care for the book's theme nor how cloying it often is. ...more I've had this book on my shelf for a few years now, and when New Zealand came up as the first country in the Travelling the World challenge, it seemed like fate that I'd waited this long to read it. Well, the author's a Kiwi but the book is actually set on the small tropical island of Bougainville, near Papua New Guinea, in the 1990s. It's the kind of tropical island where communities live in small villages by the beach, amidst the jungle, living off fish and coconuts, chicken and pigs. Matilda I've had this book on my shelf for a few years now, and when New Zealand came up as the first country in the Travelling the World challenge, it seemed like fate that I'd waited this long to read it. Well, the author's a Kiwi but the book is actually set on the small tropical island of Bougainville, near Papua New Guinea, in the 1990s. It's the kind of tropical island where communities live in small villages by the beach, amidst the jungle, living off fish and coconuts, chicken and pigs. Matilda lives with her mother; her father got a job with the mine and, when it closed, moved to Queensland for a new job in Townsville - they haven't seen him since, though postcards and occasional gifts still arrive. When the small island descends into war between islanders protesting the environmental impact and poor compensation to the landowners by the copper mine, and armed soldiers (called \"redskins\" by the islanders), Matilda's small community does its best to continue on as always, even though their young men and boys are leaving to fight with the rebels and they have to hide in the bush every time a helicopter comes by. Amongst these deeply black-skinned islanders is one white man, nicknamed \"Pop Eye\", who lives in the old missionary house with his possibly crazy wife, Grace. Pop Eye - or Mr Watts - takes it upon himself to teach the village's children in the old abandoned schoolhouse. There are no resources for the children, but Mr Watts brings an old copy of Great Expectations , which he reads to the kids. The story - and the setting - is completely foreign to them, but it engages their minds to the fullest and sparks their imaginations. Matilda especially thinks of the characters in a personal way, and takes a keen interest in Pip, writing his name in the sand and decorating it with shells. When the soldiers come through and take down the villagers' names, the one person unaccounted for is this Pip whose name they found on the beach. Ill, malnourished and looking almost insane, the soldiers are determined to find this missing villager, who they believe is a rebel the village is hiding. They are unable to believe in Pip being a fictional character, and the book itself is missing. Without the book, Mr Watts gives the children a new task: to remember the book, and resurrect it. The political and historical backdrop is essentially just that, a backdrop, to the real themes of the novel - but it is one of those skilfully depicted, moving and deeply tragic backdrops that provide more than context to the main story. Set in any other time or place, Matilda's story of awakening imagination and the freedom it brings would have little impact, or much less anyway. The juxtaposition of this comparatively frivolous story of the orphan boy and his great expectations against the frightening reality of armed soldiers and rebels terrorising villagers, of the blockade preventing resources from reaching them, of the lack of international interest in what was happening on their island, is powerful, complex and fascinating. On a smaller scale, Matilda experiences the conflict between her mother, a god-fearing woman, and Mr Watts, an atheist. As we progressed through the book something happened to me. At some point I felt myself enter the story. I hadn't been assigned a part - nothing like that; I wasn't identifiable on the page, but I was there. I knew that orphaned white kid and that small, fragile place he squeezed into between his awful sister and lovable Joe Gargery, because the same space came to exist between Mr. Watts and my mum. And I knew I would have to choose between the two. (pp.46-7) Not only does the novel express the importance of imagination and of having the words to express yourself, but it also shows the timeless quality of great fiction. As western students we routinely moan about having to study Shakespeare, never really understanding the relevance because the teacher doesn't get it either; it's just on the curriculum. But these stories survive and live on in our imaginations for many reasons, not least of all the \"universality\" of their stories (within a white, Anglo/Western/European context, mostly) - Matilda and Mister Pip show that even a black person from a tropical island who can't even picture English marshes or pork pies, can relate to the core themes of a story, the essentials, the characters and their relationships. It's a shared human experience, isn't it? Take the essential elements of the story and transpose them to an African country, or an Asian one - would they necessarily change all that much? This is part of what keeps these stories alive at the academic level, I'm sure. As a story, it's simply and beautifully told in Matilda's older voice, and while you might think that by looking back and writing this story as a young, well educated woman, she would provide more adult insight and context, I loved that she shared her story as the child she was when it happened; that is, with her child's understanding. There are moments when Matilda will explain things, but you never lose the impression of her as a child and young teenager, experiencing all these things. You really come to believe in her and her world, and care deeply for them all. Mr Watts - or \"Mister Pip\" as he was, in one sense - is another strong character, as is Matilda's mother. Mr Watts is a curiosity in the village, an oddity, as is his wife Grace who grew up on the island but left to continue her education, returning years later a broken woman in the company of a quiet white man. He's a familiar character to us not least because he's identifiable, being white and of \"our\" world, but also because he embodies that subtle, sardonic persona that you can find in Dickens and other western works. Yet, through Matilda's eyes, we see and feel his strangeness, and our own. It's quite wonderfully done. It's a surprisingly quick read, if you have the time to sit down with it and not be distracted, and it's easily accessible to younger readers. I would say it's a benefit to have read Great Expectations first, to better understand the details from the story that are talked about between Mr Watts and the children, and also because there are spoilers in this for the older book. If you haven't read the Dickens book, this might encourage you - I hope so, it's worth reading. ...more What a nearly perfect book, especially right after reading the original Pip (Great Expectations). A white NZ man introduces the black children of the tiny island of Bougainville, Papua New Guinea to Great Expectations against a background of civil war with the \"redskins\" from the larger island. I don't want to give any of the plot away and I recommend that you do not read the jacket cover. This is an intensely moving, lyrical book. Unconvincing narrator, condescending, patronizing, less than successful end. Other than that it's an OK story. Note to middle aged white guys - think twice before writing as 13 year old black island girl. Wow! I didn't expect this when I started reading. What a well told story. There are opposites throughout: idyllic island surrounding/Victorian London; peaceful island/rebels & militia; Great Expectations/no expectations. The juxtapositions are harsh and affective. Mr. Watts, the only white man on the island, takes it upon himself to teach the children during times of war after the school has been closed. He uses Great Expectations as a textbook, teaching the children of a world beyond their o Wow! I didn't expect this when I started reading. What a well told story. There are opposites throughout: idyllic island surrounding/Victorian London; peaceful island/rebels & militia; Great Expectations/no expectations. The juxtapositions are harsh and affective. Mr. Watts, the only white man on the island, takes it upon himself to teach the children during times of war after the school has been closed. He uses Great Expectations as a textbook, teaching the children of a world beyond their own, asking them to open their imaginations. The parallels & similarities between the two worlds are wonderfully interwoven as the story reveals itself. Mr. Watts will stay with me. What a wonderful character. Flawed and yet perfect at the same time. ...more Goodness I loved this book. If I sound surprised -- I am. From the description I wasn't sure if it was going to be my kind of thing and I wasn't even sure I would bother reading it (which is kind of why I took it with me on the plane -- then I have no choice!). But the story just wove its way into my head and wouldn't let go. It's even in first-person -- and I don't like first person -- but I didn't even really notice. The story is set in Papua New Guinea -- it doesn't explicitly say that, but t Goodness I loved this book. If I sound surprised -- I am. From the description I wasn't sure if it was going to be my kind of thing and I wasn't even sure I would bother reading it (which is kind of why I took it with me on the plane -- then I have no choice!). But the story just wove its way into my head and wouldn't let go. It's even in first-person -- and I don't like first person -- but I didn't even really notice. The story is set in Papua New Guinea -- it doesn't explicitly say that, but there's little doubt it's anywhere else -- and mostly concerns the fate of a tiny village caught up in conflict between soldiers and rebels who fight for undisclosed reasons. In the village is a single white man, Mr Watts, who becomes the village children's teacher, using Charles Dickens' \"Great Expectations\" as his text book. Through the perspective of one girl, forced to tread a thin path between her mother's \"make-believe\" (the Bible and the natural world) and Mr Watt's make-believe world (Pip and Dickensian London), we get a unique view of the world. Other reviewers have criticised the book for using language well outside the realm of its childhood narrator. But I was okay with that, and there is a logical explanation for it once you get to the end of the book. There are definitely surprising (perhaps, more accurately, *shocking*) moments. A couple of times I stopped and had to re-read, but I don't want to say anymore because this is a story you just have to go with and let it unfold for you. Can't wait to see the movie. ;) ...more Picked up due to the bright colours on the cover. Mister Pip is a rich and engrossing story told from the point of view of Matilda during civil war on a small pacific island. Without a normal routine or life the only white man on the island teaches the children from Great Expectations. It's subtle and rich, particularly when detailing the feelings that reading can evoke, providing an alternate reality and support system. The characters are developed and complex and the underlying menace and outri Picked up due to the bright colours on the cover. Mister Pip is a rich and engrossing story told from the point of view of Matilda during civil war on a small pacific island. Without a normal routine or life the only white man on the island teaches the children from Great Expectations. It's subtle and rich, particularly when detailing the feelings that reading can evoke, providing an alternate reality and support system. The characters are developed and complex and the underlying menace and outright horror which permeate are counterd by a very humane atmosphere. By the time you near the end you've invested so much into the characters that you get hit for six by the turn of events and subsequent emotions. I had a sense of numb shock mirroring that of certain characters near the end. Powerful emotions and a worthy read. Also makes me want to pick up Great Expectations (which I've never read). Won the 2007 Commonwealth Writer's Prize and shortlisted for the Booker the same year. ...more I bought this book solely because I liked its cover. And it was shortlisted for Man Booker in 2007. So I thought it was good. I mean, the only thing that I liked, was this whole general idea. About native people living on this exotic post-colonial island which is struck by civil war between the rebels and redskin army with their helicopters flying above the palm trees, and how white world doesn\u2019t give a shit, and relations among the villagers and their relations with the war situation and everyd I bought this book solely because I liked its cover. And it was shortlisted for Man Booker in 2007. So I thought it was good. I mean, the only thing that I liked, was this whole general idea. About native people living on this exotic post-colonial island which is struck by civil war between the rebels and redskin army with their helicopters flying above the palm trees, and how white world doesn\u2019t give a shit, and relations among the villagers and their relations with the war situation and everyday domestic things. And the only white person on the island is Mr. Watts, called Mr. Pip, who is really no teacher at all, but is the only one who is capable to teach local children. So, he gives them life lessons from the only book on the island, Great Expectations. Ok. Not a clich\u00e9. God Save the Queen. The thing that I really disliked was how badly 1st person narration was written. So, this is why I say, whole general idea was really good \u2013 it had huge potential, but when I read it through the eyes of 14 years old Matilda, one of the local girls, uuuuu, it just sucked. Author forced me to watch through her eyes, and I was really empathetic-less :). But put like this, I was just annoyed, picture bad. I couldn\u2019t relate with her in any possible way. In no way. I couldn\u2019t picture her being this poor native girl, because some of her thoughts were completely westernised. She made many assumptions but they were not very well interpreted. Most of the times I was just convincing myself to finish it \u2013 because I was reading Lloyd Jones' words, which is fair enough because he\u2019s the author, but, it\u2019s just that, his words, not some blimmin' Matlida's words. The language was simple and quite likeable (which is contradiction to everything above), but I had such strong and bad shifts from Dickens\u2019 white England to this oceanic island that it made me pretty angry overall. Because I so hoped it would be good. It never did. That was my impression of the first 150 pages. And then last 50 came. And my opinion changed. My thoughts about Matilda changed completely. It was like I was reading a different book. That annoyance from the beginning toward narration, plot, people, book, Mr. Watts ... that disappeared. Not completely, because I still had 150 pages behind me, but... Another perspective was given. Why is it like this?, found its answer. I was surprised and eventually closed the book with a smile. Not really a happy one, because it\u2019s not a happy book, but I smiled because I finally understood Matilda. And that is soothing. ...more Beautiful, horrific, heartbreaking. And shameful that once again, the world looked away while atrocities were committed. There are some books that actually make you feel like you are a better person for having read it. This is one of those books. Mister Pip is the coming-of-age story of Matilda, a teenager living in New Guinea during the height of civil war in the early 1990s. Her two greatest influences are her mother and a self-appointed teacher Mr. Watts. The foil between the mother and Watts helps Matilda reveal an authentic, independent self after she watches the two struggle over ideas purported through relig There are some books that actually make you feel like you are a better person for having read it. This is one of those books. Mister Pip is the coming-of-age story of Matilda, a teenager living in New Guinea during the height of civil war in the early 1990s. Her two greatest influences are her mother and a self-appointed teacher Mr. Watts. The foil between the mother and Watts helps Matilda reveal an authentic, independent self after she watches the two struggle over ideas purported through religion and literature. Matilda is forced to think for herself and begins to see the world not in terms of black and white but in nuanced shades of color. At times sweet and sentimental and others harsh and terrifying, the author Lloyd James does an amazing job of weaving this novel together, especially through the thread of Charles Dickens' Great Expectations, which Mr. Watts uses to teach the island children. Any book lover will appreciate the way Watts harnesses the imagination of youth in a fantastic world and influences them to learn more about life than they ever could on their own. Simply brilliant... ...more 'Mister Pip' is an amazing book filled with all sides of Life: the good, the bad, and the ugly. There is family, friendship, trust, acts of kindness and wisdom. There is an island, that is home , surrounded by nature and the sea. However, there are also some cringe-worthy, horror-inducing war atrocities. The novel doesn't beautify anything: it shows the inhumanity that war is and made me wonder whether war makes monsters or monsters make war. The novel is written extremely well. Lloyd Jones is a 'Mister Pip' is an amazing book filled with all sides of Life: the good, the bad, and the ugly. There is family, friendship, trust, acts of kindness and wisdom. There is an island, that is home , surrounded by nature and the sea. However, there are also some cringe-worthy, horror-inducing war atrocities. The novel doesn't beautify anything: it shows the inhumanity that war is and made me wonder whether war makes monsters or monsters make war. The novel is written extremely well. Lloyd Jones is a very talented and ingenious author. The syntax used in 'Mister Pip' delivered the story and the tone perfectly. The ideas that are thought about, discussed, and implied, definitely provide food for thought. I recommend 'Mister Pip' to people who want to read a novel that manages to be heartbreaking and horrifying, and charming, poetic and uplifting all at the same time. ...more I did not like this book. At first I found myself just trying to get through it for the sake of finishing it and then later I found myself trying to get through it to spare myself from reading anything else horrible. I did not like the casualness with which tramatic events were described. I understand the events were being told from a \"detached\" point of view, but it still doesn't mean I enjoyed it. The end of the book was better than the rest, but by then, it had all been ruined for me. I know t I did not like this book. At first I found myself just trying to get through it for the sake of finishing it and then later I found myself trying to get through it to spare myself from reading anything else horrible. I did not like the casualness with which tramatic events were described. I understand the events were being told from a \"detached\" point of view, but it still doesn't mean I enjoyed it. The end of the book was better than the rest, but by then, it had all been ruined for me. I know this book is full of meanings, lessons, etc., but I just didn't like it. ...more \u201cYou cannot pretend to read a book. Your eyes will give you away. So will your breathing. A person entranced by a book simply forgets to breathe. The house can catch alight and a reader deep in a book will not look up until the wallpaper is in flames.\u201d This lovely (and so true) quote is from \u201cMister Pip\u201d, Winner of the 2007 Commonwealth Writers\u2019 Prize and Shortlisted for the 2007 Man Booker Prize written by Mr. Lloyd Jones. If Pip sounds familiar to you that you\u2019ve probably read \u201cGreat Expectation \u201cYou cannot pretend to read a book. Your eyes will give you away. So will your breathing. A person entranced by a book simply forgets to breathe. The house can catch alight and a reader deep in a book will not look up until the wallpaper is in flames.\u201d This lovely (and so true) quote is from \u201cMister Pip\u201d, Winner of the 2007 Commonwealth Writers\u2019 Prize and Shortlisted for the 2007 Man Booker Prize written by Mr. Lloyd Jones. If Pip sounds familiar to you that you\u2019ve probably read \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d by Charles Dickens and coincidence is surely not accidental. I must admit I\u2019m not in that group as I haven\u2019t read Mr. Dickens\u2019 novel and at first I was afraid that will have an impact on reading (and fully understanding) this novel however I was wrong. I might even shamefully admit that not knowing story of Disken\u2019s Pip was actually advantage so that I could easily jump in the shoes of (barefoot!) Matilda, our 13 year old narrator. The plot is settled on tropical island Bougainville, Papua New Guinea during civilian war which is approaching to the part of the island where they are. Central character of the novel is a teacher who is named Mr. Watts, Bougainville\u2019s only white resident. As a consequence of the war the live on the island\u2019s village is changing and one of the greatest change for our young narrator is that the schools is closed since the teacher has left the island. Until one morning Matilda\u2019s mother yelled one morning \u201cGet up Matilda! You\u2019ve got school today!\u201d since Mr. Watts decided to help the village and children by taking the role of the school teacher. At the very beginning he admits that he\u2019s no educated to be a teacher and that there\u2019ll be questions on which he will not be able to give answers but he promises that he\u2019ll do his best to be good teacher. Since there is no formal education to be had, he improvises the curriculum that comes most easily to him: with \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d, which, incidentally, is the greatest novel by the greatest English writer of the nineteenth century, Charles Dickens\u201d and he starts reading one chapter per day feeding children\u2019s hungry imagination and giving them a ticket into another world, so different than the one they live in. As the students\u2019 interest mounts, so do their parents\u2019 misconceptions. Told of the new importance of a Mr. Dickens on the island, the parents send in requests that Mr. Dickens procure antimalaria tablets, generator fuel, beer, wax candles and so on. Eventually parents decided to give their contribution to the education of their children. So we can be thought that \u201ctrust crabs first and above all others\u201d or \u201cto kill an octopus, bite it above the eyes\u201d and so on but of course this can\u2019t last forever, especially not on the island where is raging civilian war. Under this circumstance the impact of \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d on the life of children (Matilda) is even greater: it gives her a shelter because \u201cStories have a job to do. They can\u2019t just lie around like lazybone dogs. They have to teach you something.\u201d And I\u2019m afraid this is the place where book is lessening its impact because the dramatic events weren't dramatic whatsoever. I don\u2019t know why; maybe that ascetic narration was precisely what Mr. Jones wanted avoiding by it all possible melodramatic elements. However for me it was just too fast and too flat. As I said the plot is settled on the tropical island in South Pacific but the story is universal, the only local spice might be the stories about crabs and octopuses and when I said that I don\u2019t mean in negative way. Dicken's novel introduces the life in Victorian England to Matilda, while Jones' novel introduces me the life on Bougainville during the civil conflicts and I would love that I could say that this is world removed from me as much as Victorian England is removed from Matilda. However I am familiar with the horrors of civilian war and that might be the reason why geography is irrelevant with \u201cMister Pip\u201d. This is story about life on some remote island, it\u2019s not about broken families and lost of the love ones; it\u2019s not even about horrors of war \u2026 \u201cMister Pip\u201d is \u201ca love song to the power of the imagination and of storytelling. It shows how books can change lives.\u201d ...more We had to read part of this for Uni and I thought I would finish it. There was the fact that it won the Man Booker that put me off slightly, but I've plodded on regardless. This was a disturbing book, much more disturbing than I thought it would have been when I started out or from the fragment I was to read for Uni. It is not the sort of book that one really likes. It is mostly well written and the story mostly moves along at a pace that sustains interest \u2013 often better than this \u2013 but there ar We had to read part of this for Uni and I thought I would finish it. There was the fact that it won the Man Booker that put me off slightly, but I've plodded on regardless. This was a disturbing book, much more disturbing than I thought it would have been when I started out or from the fragment I was to read for Uni. It is not the sort of book that one really likes. It is mostly well written and the story mostly moves along at a pace that sustains interest \u2013 often better than this \u2013 but there are things about the story that are very distressing and so as a \u2018coming of age\u2019 book it is all a bit too sharp edged to be \u2018enjoyed\u2019. I thought this was going to be a Mr Chipps book - and it was in part - but it becomes a much darker vision towards the end. But then fiction is not just about enjoyment and neither are civil wars, so I guess this was to be expected. I never seem to expect this though. At the end I kept thinking of Heart of Darkness \u2013 I don\u2019t plan to spoil this book if you are planning to ever read it, so I won\u2019t go into details. All the same, I hadn\u2019t expected to be reminded so strongly of Heart of Darkness or for quite as much of an inversion of the end of that novel to be quite so obvious. I do like the idea that literature \u2013 in as far as it is \u2018great literature\u2019 \u2013 has the power to move despite the distance of time and space and culture that separates the reader and the writer. However, I\u2019ve never really enjoyed Dickens \u2013 I say that knowing that is a kind of heresy. I got half way through Great Expectations \u2013 the book this book uses as its cornerstone \u2013 and became so irritated with Pip\u2019s voice and Dickens\u2019s habit of telling me how to feel that I tossed it across the room and never finished it. So, if I was in the place of Pop Eye there would have been little chance of my reading the kids Great Expectations in the first place and even if I did make that mistake I would be hardly likely to immediately start it over again once I\u2019d come to the end. The nice part of this book is the attempted recreation of Great Expectations by the school kids and the third telling of the story at night. Like I said, I won't spoil it for you. All the same, I do like the idea of the joint construction or reconstruction of texts and this was handled better in this book than I would have given it credit for when I started reading the text. There are really strange things about this book that nearly stopped me reading it. Not least is the very, very strange idea that it takes a white man to teach an effectively pre-literate society how to tell stories to their children about their own local environment. This just seemed silly to me, I'm afraid - and one of the times I struggled to suspend disbelief. The other obvious problem with the suspension of disbelief in how the story is told is actually resolved really well in the novel. There were things I really liked and really disliked about this novel - but I'll just go with 3 stars and be damned. ...more I am always a bit dubious about a book that has won the Man Booker Prize, purely because I almost always don't like them. This was no exception: I found it patronising and uncomfortable reading because of it. The language in places was quite beautiful but the story premises were way dodgy as it seemed to say a white man was needed to.....pretty much teach the locals how to present their own stories/culture to each other. A society in chaos and one from outside who didn't leave. His need to be nee I am always a bit dubious about a book that has won the Man Booker Prize, purely because I almost always don't like them. This was no exception: I found it patronising and uncomfortable reading because of it. The language in places was quite beautiful but the story premises were way dodgy as it seemed to say a white man was needed to.....pretty much teach the locals how to present their own stories/culture to each other. A society in chaos and one from outside who didn't leave. His need to be needed was great, I think. ...more (The entire full-length review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) So once again it's time for the Booker Prize, which for those who don't know is basically the British version of the Pulitzer, and in fact an award that a lot of people consider a lot more important than the Pulitzer, and a lot more indicative of the best that culture had to offer that particular year. And for those who don't know, only books that have been written and published wi (The entire full-length review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) So once again it's time for the Booker Prize, which for those who don't know is basically the British version of the Pulitzer, and in fact an award that a lot of people consider a lot more important than the Pulitzer, and a lot more indicative of the best that culture had to offer that particular year. And for those who don't know, only books that have been written and published within the \"British Commonwealth\" are eligible for a Booker, which means that most Booker nominees tend to have a strong British flair to them as well; and seriously, it doesn't get much more British in tone than the first of the 2007 Booker nominees to be reviewed here at CCLaP this year, New Zealander Lloyd Jones' Mister Pip , which in fact many consider the favorite to actually win it all this year. It is an odd and delicate book, one I wouldn't normally otherwise read, if not for wanting to cover as many Booker nominees as I can this year; and now that I'm done with it, I'm not sure whether to call it brilliant or a fey little mess, or perhaps a unique little creature in-between. The novel is set at an unnamed third-world tropical island somewhere near New Zealand, one that works a lot like many third-world societies in Africa and Central America as well: a bloody dictatorship is in control of the government and major cities, an organized rebellion hides and fights in the outlying areas, and the small villages in the wilderness keep doing what they always do, no matter what's going on in the cities or with the people who don't like what's going on in the cities. As described with a kind of magical metaphorical slant by Jones, the village at the center of Mister Pip seems to be one of those lovely wonderful edens seen in a lot of \"The White Man\"s view of these societies -- a human version of The Lion King , perhaps, where every off-handed tale from a village mother just happens to be a beautifully-worded allegorical story regarding some modern liberal moral virtue or another, and you're just waiting for everyone to break into synchronized song and dance. This is an early and big complication in Mister Pip , to tell you the truth... ...more On an unnamed tropical island, war disrupts the lives of young Matilda and she classmates. When almost all of the whites living on her island, including the school teachers, flee the conflict, only the reclusive Mr. Watts remains. Married to a local girl, Mr. Watts takes over schooling the island's children. However, lacking any curriculum or experience, his teaching revolves around reading aloud from Dickens' Great Expectations. The kids are enthralled, despite having no real understanding of t On an unnamed tropical island, war disrupts the lives of young Matilda and she classmates. When almost all of the whites living on her island, including the school teachers, flee the conflict, only the reclusive Mr. Watts remains. Married to a local girl, Mr. Watts takes over schooling the island's children. However, lacking any curriculum or experience, his teaching revolves around reading aloud from Dickens' Great Expectations. The kids are enthralled, despite having no real understanding of the world of Dickens. But the power of stories is the point of this not very subtle book. Luckily its a point I can totally get behind. A nice touch is that in addition to the readings from Dickens, Mr. Watts invites the local island women to address the class with more practical lessons like how to kill an octopus (bite it behind the eyes, apparently). Matilda's mother is jealous of the influence of both Mr. Watts and Mr. Dickens on her daughter, which leads her to an act that will have lasting consequences for everyone on the island. Although the book is obvious in its message, it is still a charming read. ...more This is a good book on the whole, though not as fully realized as it could've been. I liked a lot of it, esp the theme of what narrative and story can do, both for good and bad; but near the end it dragged and was repetitive, which is really, I thought, unacceptable in such a short book. It wasn't explained how the narrator knew a certain character that appears near the end even existed. If it was supposed to be a surprise to the reader (it was), it still could've been explained better. I am a Di This is a good book on the whole, though not as fully realized as it could've been. I liked a lot of it, esp the theme of what narrative and story can do, both for good and bad; but near the end it dragged and was repetitive, which is really, I thought, unacceptable in such a short book. It wasn't explained how the narrator knew a certain character that appears near the end even existed. If it was supposed to be a surprise to the reader (it was), it still could've been explained better. I am a Dickens fan and enjoyed the connection with Pip and the rest of \"Great Expectations,\" but even that started to feel repetitive near the end. ...more A well-written book, good narrative. I think what I enjoyed the most was how Lloyd Jones consistently gave examples of how the location and moment in time you read a book in really does affect how you absorb it, and how it impacts your life or connects with you. I do love books that seem to offer some commentary on the act of reading itself. That said, I felt like the end was a little bit sensationalistic - which is not to say it lacked emotional heft, because I was certainly gripped, it just le A well-written book, good narrative. I think what I enjoyed the most was how Lloyd Jones consistently gave examples of how the location and moment in time you read a book in really does affect how you absorb it, and how it impacts your life or connects with you. I do love books that seem to offer some commentary on the act of reading itself. That said, I felt like the end was a little bit sensationalistic - which is not to say it lacked emotional heft, because I was certainly gripped, it just left me dissatisfied in some way, and feeling a little manipulated. Hence the 3 stars. It was a good read, though, and has made me want to go read Great Expectations. ...more I just finished Mister Pip, by Lloyd Jones, which was quite good. It was a finalist for the Man Booker prize. It's about a young native girl on an island near Australia that is engulfed in a rebel war. All the white people have left the island, except for Mr. Watts, who is married to a native woman. Mr. Watts takes over teaching the children of the village and reads them \"Great Expectations,\" enflaming their imaginations. Trouble comes for the whole village when government soldiers show up to in I just finished Mister Pip, by Lloyd Jones, which was quite good. It was a finalist for the Man Booker prize. It's about a young native girl on an island near Australia that is engulfed in a rebel war. All the white people have left the island, except for Mr. Watts, who is married to a native woman. Mr. Watts takes over teaching the children of the village and reads them \"Great Expectations,\" enflaming their imaginations. Trouble comes for the whole village when government soldiers show up to interrogate the villagers on the person called \"Pip\" they have been hearing about. It's about imagination and the power of story--a short book, but powerful and very poignant. ...more Was unprepared for the violent section--but an island at war is bound to suffer. As a teacher I like to read about methods other teachers use to engage students in lessons and especially literature, so I liked the integration of the Dickens tale. Good story, but it wrenched my heart. A wonderful book, quite surprising in content as I was expecting a \"white-man-in-the-jungle\" tale, but this was told from the perspective of a girl living on war-torn Bougainville. Now, of course, I must read Dickens \"Great Expectations\". Oh my what a novel. A fabulous and tragic story of power of literature to transform, transport, escape and provide a tonic for the struggles of real life. For the first half of this novel I thought 'this could be a great book for Year 7 or 8', then the novel took a turn and I ended up thinking 'this would be a great book for Years 11 or 12'. Perfect for HSC English 'Area of Study Discovery' text. I have a very limited understanding of PNG having never visited, nor read much about the people and t Oh my what a novel. A fabulous and tragic story of power of literature to transform, transport, escape and provide a tonic for the struggles of real life. For the first half of this novel I thought 'this could be a great book for Year 7 or 8', then the novel took a turn and I ended up thinking 'this would be a great book for Years 11 or 12'. Perfect for HSC English 'Area of Study Discovery' text. I have a very limited understanding of PNG having never visited, nor read much about the people and their history so Mister Pip is a springboard for me to find out more. It also makes me want to read Great Expectations - have read other Dickens but not this one. Warning: tissues required. ...more I'm definitely looking forward to the book group discussion of this book. Wow. I love so much of the basic premise: that a book has power, that it can change your life. So much of the book I'd love to quote here. So here's just one \" I had always liked her, but now I admired Celia. I hadn't stopped to think that someone else might also treasure the book and actively inhabit that world. The quality of Celia's question meant that the book must also occupy her thoughts. Possibly Pip too. Mr. Watts I'm definitely looking forward to the book group discussion of this book. Wow. I love so much of the basic premise: that a book has power, that it can change your life. So much of the book I'd love to quote here. So here's just one \" I had always liked her, but now I admired Celia. I hadn't stopped to think that someone else might also treasure the book and actively inhabit that world. The quality of Celia's question meant that the book must also occupy her thoughts. Possibly Pip too. Mr. Watts thanked Celia. Her comment, he said, provided us with an interesting insight into the parallel world the reader develops from the words on the page.\" Definite spoilers ahead, so don't read until you've read the book. Questions I had: Why does Mr. Watts only read from Great Expectations? We learn early on, and then later when his house is emptied, that he has lots of books. Instead of picking another, they begin this one again. And they admit it is unsatisfactory in some ways. I wondered this as I was reading, and then later as I was considering it, and how personal this is for Mr. Watt's, and the narrator, I understood it a little better. For me the book would be Pride and Prejudice. Why do I go back to this every year even though there are books on my shelf that I haven't read? Though it's not exactly my story, I do love the humanness of the characters, their ability to realize their mistakes, the humor, and the romance. Was anyone else disappointed to learn that Mr. Watts had edited the book for them? I was really disappointed by this. I liked how he would explain the unfamiliar terms/concepts to the students. Did he not trust them enough? Or was he just so afraid that they wouldn't like it? It makes me wonder, as the narrator does also, was Mr. Watts just acting? Does that matter? What I loved: the power of story: the ability of a story to change a life, or allow one to change a life, or travel to another world; the power of storytelling as Mr. Pip tells his story; the lists he and Grace made, the stories contributed by the villagers at Grace's funeral. ...more This book is all about the ending--the inevitable trauma that you sense waiting in the wings from the first appearance of the \"redskins\" and the disappearance of all the village males into the jungle. This book is not about Charles Dickens, Great Expectations or the strange captivation the book and its teacher hold upon this group of isolated South Pacific-islanders in the midst of a civil war. And strangely, I think Mr. Pip might have been stronger had it leaned a little more heavily on Dickens This book is all about the ending--the inevitable trauma that you sense waiting in the wings from the first appearance of the \"redskins\" and the disappearance of all the village males into the jungle. This book is not about Charles Dickens, Great Expectations or the strange captivation the book and its teacher hold upon this group of isolated South Pacific-islanders in the midst of a civil war. And strangely, I think Mr. Pip might have been stronger had it leaned a little more heavily on Dickens-style sentimentality, or drawn a closer parallel between the events of GE and those in Mr. Pip . As it was, the entire power of this novel had to do with the strange, numbed, flat and affectless voice of the narrator as she related the decline of her life around her, paced by the chapters of Great Expectations. As a reader, I was on high alert for the atrocity to come but despite knowing it would, I didn't make the connection between Matilda's voice and the events that would later have such a profound effect on her. At some points, it had a magical realism quality in its disconnection from reality, especially in the odd way Matilda interpreted events; the strange and surreal nuggets of wisdom provided by the parents to Mr. Watts's class and the caricatured grotesques of he and his wife, Grace (surely intended to be Dickensian). In retrospect, I can now see the artistry in this. I'm just not sure that's enough somehow. Like so many Mann Bookers, I'm left a little puzzled and underwhelmed. Like others before it, Mr. Pip tries for big metaphor, allegory and drama, but falls a little short for me. ...more", "Title": "Mister Pip"},
