{"Comments": "I fucking cried like a big baby made of baby tears and the only down side to this whole novel was the very last sentence. Don't think she was ready for that step AT ALL but still... Someone give me a hug! *runs off to cry some more* So this series just keeps getting more and more intense.<---F> And in such unexpected ways</---F>. I love it when an author has the ability (<---B>and the guts</---B>) to slip in a real shocker without compromising her characters or the story as a whole. In a series, that's particularly hard to do without making it seem like a gratuitous plot twist inserted merely to keep the series going. <---A>Patricia Briggs</---A> has a 7-book deal for her Mercy Thompson series and book three has shown that not only does she know exactly what sh So this series just keeps getting more and more intense. And in such unexpected ways. I love it when an author has the ability (and the guts) to slip in a real shocker without compromising her characters or the story as a whole. In a series, that's particularly hard to do without making it seem like a gratuitous plot twist inserted merely to keep the series going. Patricia Briggs has a 7-book deal for her Mercy Thompson series and book three has shown that not only does she know exactly what she's doing, but that we can trust her. To keep her characters and her world consistent. To take them down the right paths and introduce them to the right people...or werewolves and vampires in this case. Mercy lives in a world where werewolves, vampires, and the fae exist side by side with humans. The first book,<---M> Moon Called </---M>, focuses on the werewolves. The second, Blood Bound , centers on the vampires, including Mercy's quirky Scooby Doo loving friend Stefan. In this third installment, coyote shape shifter and VW mechanic Mercy Thompson is called in to help the fae solve a series of murders on the local fae reservation. Soon after, her friend Zee is arrested for the murder and, just like that, Mercy's in the thick of it, determined to clear Zee's name no matter what. Add to that the increasingly imperative choice she must make between the two werewolves in her life: <---C>Adam Hauptman</---C> (the Alpha of the local pack who's already claimed her as his mate) and Dr. Samuel Cornick (the wolf she fell in love with at 16). In what is becoming classic Briggs style, <+++>Iron Kissed</+++> combines an intriguing mystery with a streak of compelling romance, interspersed with glimpses of your worst nightmares. The combination is the height of entertainment. And what holds it all together is Mercy herself. The girl doesn't know the meaning of the words back down. I absolutely love these books. ...more The book that committed me to continuing the series. Zee, Mercy's mechanic mentor, needs the help of her nose investigating a recent death on the fae reservation. Briggs gets to pull out all the stops and introduce the readers to a number of fae and their magical artifacts. Investigating the crime scenes proves fascinating, and also points out a person of interest. Next thing Mercy knows is that Zee is being held in the human jail as the primary suspect in the POI's murder. In the interests of ke The book that committed me to continuing the series. Zee, Mercy's mechanic mentor, needs the help of her nose investigating a recent death on the fae reservation. Briggs gets to pull out all the stops and introduce the readers to a number of fae and their magical artifacts. Investigating the crime scenes proves fascinating, and also points out a person of interest. Next thing Mercy knows is that Zee is being held in the human jail as the primary suspect in the POI's murder. In the interests of keeping fae business from human scrutiny, the fae intend to let Zee take the blame. Mercy, of course, can't bear to have her innocent friend blamed, so she continues to investigate the murders, bringing her to the attention of a number of powerful fae. At the same time, Mercy attempts to balance her love life between Samuel, roommate and childhood love, and Adam, her current crush. When it comes to plotting, there was a much better balance of interesting things happening without reliance on dramatic, life-threatening events. There's the investigation, the music festival, a night out for pizza, and a meeting for a change of pace. At first, it wasn't clear where the murder investigation would go, but eventually it narrowed down to an obvious suspect. While choosing between potential love interests is often a plot device that has me eye-rolling, I thought Mercy's dilemma was handled nicely with gentle self-revelations rather than dramatic angst. The ending was truly gut-wrenching. Any frustration I would have leveled at Briggs was mitigated by Ben's perceptive and emotional explanation. Mercy is allowed her trauma but also to regain some of her self-confidence in a capstone fight. Mostly, however, I just loved the introduction of various fae. Briggs did a nice job with the eerie threatening power of the fae, capturing the capriciousness and ruthlessness of folklore fae. Kudos for the Walking Stick, one of my favorite non-sentient (?) characters ever. Still, for a female-led urban fantasy, there's an awful lot of males around, with most of them engaged in rating each other on the dominance scale. It's the kind of thing that will end up putting me off a series. Re-read May 2016 ...more The 3rd book in the enchanting Mercy Thompson Series and the more I get to like Mercy\u2026. This is an intense and emotional story. Mercy becomes involved in some dangerous things when she becomes involved in the fae world and politics in her quest to save her former mentor and fae, Zee. Filled with nerve-wracking moments, suspense and tension \u2013 you just can\u2019t wait for turning the next page to finding out what happens now!!! You kept guessing until the very end and it\u2019s certainly not what you expec The 3rd book in the enchanting Mercy Thompson Series and the more I get to like Mercy\u2026. This is an intense and emotional story. Mercy becomes involved in some dangerous things when she becomes involved in the fae world and politics in her quest to save her former mentor and fae, Zee. Filled with nerve-wracking moments, suspense and tension \u2013 you just can\u2019t wait for turning the next page to finding out what happens now!!! You kept guessing until the very end and it\u2019s certainly not what you expect!! The world building continues growing and it\u2019s becoming more and more interesting with all the different characters. We finally get to see Mercy making up her mind about the man she really loves\u2026and I was beyond happy with her decision!!!! A great and fabulous read. ...more <+++>Iron Kissed</+++> has made me even more of a fan of Patricia Briggs. This story takes off shortly after Blood Bound. Mercy and her friends are still recovering from dealing with the demon-possessed vampire, and the wave of violence that he inflicted on the Tri-Cities area. Do not be fooled into thinking that things will go back to normal for Mercy. The heat is on as the pressure to choose between two werewolves who want her as their mate: her former flame, Samuel and the sexy, powerful alpha of the Tr Iron Kissed has made me even more of a fan of Patricia Briggs. This story takes off shortly after Blood Bound. Mercy and her friends are still recovering from dealing with the demon-possessed vampire, and the wave of violence that he inflicted on the Tri-Cities area. Do not be fooled into thinking that things will go back to normal for Mercy. The heat is on as the pressure to choose between two werewolves who want her as their mate: her former flame, Samuel and the sexy, powerful alpha of the Tri-Cities pack, Adam, gets explosive. Normally I hate love triangles, but Ms. Briggs handles this one so well, I was loving it. I could see how it was hard to choose between Samuel and Adam, because they both have a lot to offer a girl, although my heart already made the choice for her, and I was glad that Mercy made the same choice. I adore both Adam and Samuel, for different reasons. They are both tough and powerful men, with a primal edge that I just adore. Adam is protective but he knows that Mercy is always going to be her own woman, and works hard to give her space, even though his urge to claim her is increasingly hard to control. Although he is dominant and formidable in his own right, Samuel is more touchy feely and does sweet things like cooks for Mercy and provides her with the feelings of home and hearth that she sometimes misses from being part of Bran\u2019s pack long ago. I enjoyed the flirtations she had with both guys, and I didn\u2019t feel like she was stringing them along. It was clear how hard it was to choose one man, and possibly lose the other. Ms. Briggs balanced the tension beautifully in this book. On top of emotional/relationship aspects, is the mystery about who is killing Fae at the Walla Walla faerie reservation. I love reading about the Fae, and this book didn\u2019t disappoint me. Ms. Briggs captures the ruthless/dangerous aspects of these creatures, but also the allure and the otherworldly appeal awesomely. Mercy is in serious danger in this book, and there are some moments that are intense and very heartbreaking, as Mercy puts herself in jeopardy to save her friend Zee from being framed for the murder of a bigoted, anti-Fae guard who worked at the reservation. Ms. Briggs is my favorite fantasy author, and this book only solidifies her place in my keeper shelves. She writes urban fantasy with a light, subtle touch, her narrative sparing but rich at the same time. She has all the human elements that make an urban fantasy book call to this reader. Yet she also gives a reader the magic and the preternatural creatures that make fantasy one of my favorite genres. I loved her wolves from book one, and this book makes me love them more. Adam is just awesome, but Samuel is delicious and adorable too. And the rest of the pack and their dynamics stands out beautifully, especially Ben. I loved how Ben was able to talk to Adam and Mercy and help them through the horrible situation the potential mates found themselves facing in this novel. This book was just fantastic. In fact, I feel the urge to read it again already, although my tbr pile is calling me to other books. I\u2019m so glad that I have the rest of the books to come back to when I get my reading schedule under control. Ms. Briggs, I want to shake your hand. You know how to write an enthralling book for fantasy lovers, and you proved it with Iron Kissed. Casting Choices: Julia Jones as Mercy Thompson: Christian Bale as Adam Hauptman: Wentworth Miller as Samuel Cornick: ...more Full review, originally posted on Fantasy Literature : Patricia Briggs, who has explored werewolf and vampire societies in the first two volumes of her MERCY THOMPSON urban fantasy series, turns her attention to fae society in this third volume. In the second volume, Blood Bound , Mercy had been lent a powerful knife, a fae treasure, by Zee, her former boss and a fae, to kill a demon-ridden vampire. When Mercy used the knife for an additional and very much unauthorized purpose, she knew there woul Full review, originally posted on Fantasy Literature : Patricia Briggs, who has explored werewolf and vampire societies in the first two volumes of her MERCY THOMPSON urban fantasy series, turns her attention to fae society in this third volume. In the second volume, Blood Bound , Mercy had been lent a powerful knife, a fae treasure, by Zee, her former boss and a fae, to kill a demon-ridden vampire. When Mercy used the knife for an additional and very much unauthorized purpose, she knew there would be consequences and that she would need to repay the favor in some way. It turns out that owing a favor to one of the fae is pretty much as dangerous as owing a favor to a vampire. Like the werewolves, the fae have been gradually disclosing their existence and some of their members to humanity, based on the theory that with the ever-increasing sophistication of technology, humans were going to find out about them anyway and it would be better to control the process. Many of the fae who are publicly known have moved to a reservation outside of the city of Pasco, Washington, in a development that echoes America\u2019s treatment of Native Americans. In this case, however, the fae are using the reservation to hide magic that would alarm humans, including magical links to Underhill, the fae world. Zee asks Mercy to help investigate the serial murders of seven fae on the reservation, using her sharp coyote sense of smell. When she finds a particular human\u2019s scent at all of the murder scenes, Zee and another fae, known as Uncle Mike, go to this person\u2019s home to confront him \u2015 and find him already dead, attacked by someone or something with superhuman strength. Zee is found there at the murder scene by the police, and the fae rulers abandon him to the human justice system to avoid an unwanted investigation into fae affairs. Mercy stubbornly continues with her independent investigation of the case, determined not to allow Zee to take the blame, but in doing so she\u2019ll expose herself to unimaginable danger. The climax of the story is extremely traumatic for Mercy, and may be distressing for some readers. This deeply disturbing event and its repercussions were dealt with honestly and realistically, without being too explicit. I could quibble about the very end of the story, but it added a welcome note of hope, even if it didn\u2019t strike me as entirely believable. [ETA: The beginning of the next book in this series, Bone Crossed , recasts this incident, so I'm withdrawing my quibble.] Complicating Mercy\u2019s life further are her relationship woes, including the love square/trident that irked me in Blood Bound . Those issues come to a head in this volume and while the final resolution in one sense seems overly facile, as two men drop out of the running with much less fuss than I expected, in another sense Mercy is still struggling tremendously with commitment issues, especially since she fears that she may lose her autonomy and ability to make her own decisions. Her thought processes as she works through her fears and considers the nature and character of the man she is choosing to be her partner are instructive in a larger, real-world sense, despite the urban fantasy setting. After three books, I\u2019ve been well and truly sucked into this series, and have grown highly attached to many of the characters. Briggs\u2019 MERCY THOMPSON books have improved with each successive entry in the series. ...more This was the best yet! When I read the first book in this series my reaction was : meh- I can't remember what persuaded me to read the second one but it turned my opinion round. And now the third instalment has completed my re-education. Mercy Thompson is such a great character. She has backbone, she is completely loyal to those she loves, brave, curious and the cast around her are just as interesting . I read this in only 2 sittings and loved every minute. Towards the end there is a traumatic eve This was the best yet! When I read the first book in this series my reaction was : meh- I can't remember what persuaded me to read the second one but it turned my opinion round. And now the third instalment has completed my re-education. Mercy Thompson is such a great character. She has backbone, she is completely loyal to those she loves, brave, curious and the cast around her are just as interesting . I read this in only 2 sittings and loved every minute. Towards the end there is a traumatic event that happens and this and its aftermath are dealt with in the best of ways by Patricia Briggs. The love triangle is over and I'm keen to pick up in the next book where this one leaves off. Recommended. ( But read the series starting at the beginning!) ...more I have mixed feelings about Iron Kissed. It started absolutely great - Mercy gets in the middle of fae trouble, story finally moves forward with new plot twists. But... Romance. I love suspense/mystery side of this series much more than romance. It \"pops up\" in the weirdest situations and I was just: \"Get over yourself already, woman!\" I didn't really feel chemistry between Mercy and Adam because there is no actual interaction - just endless Mercy's soliloquies about why she likes Adam and why s I have mixed feelings about Iron Kissed. It started absolutely great - Mercy gets in the middle of fae trouble, story finally moves forward with new plot twists. But... Romance. I love suspense/mystery side of this series much more than romance. It \"pops up\" in the weirdest situations and I was just: \"Get over yourself already, woman!\" I didn't really feel chemistry between Mercy and Adam because there is no actual interaction - just endless Mercy's soliloquies about why she likes Adam and why she likes Sam and why she can't choose (but she did choose, it's obvious from her rants, plus constant repeating of what happened before with both men. So yes, romance ruined Iron Kissed for me. On the other hand, mystery was brilliant. I was on my toes whole time and I really didn't guess who was the bad guy. I never thought that it would be (view spoiler) [Tim (hide spoiler) ] - I actually had few other suspects, but never (view spoiler) [him (hide spoiler) ] . Ending was... wow. Powerful. Also, it made me like pack dynamics more. Speaking about how the story ended, I noticed one thing - it is so obvious that Iron Kissed is a little bit older book - it's quite tame (actually, term conservative would be better in this case) when it comes to explicit scenes. I guess authors braved with more graphic descriptions later. I should rate this book, right? Romance is 2 stars, mystery 4 stars, writing changed depending of subject, so it would be... 3 stars. ...more [5 Stars] What is it with third books in urban fantasy series? Seriously. Magic Strikes by Ilona Andrews was one of my favorites from the series, and it was the third book in the series. Iron Kissed is no different. Oh. My. Goodness. This was really freaking good. I love Mercy, her character development, how she thinks, just her entire decision process is amazing. She goes through so much in this book, so freaking much, and I admit it was a little hard to read at times, but I really love how Pat [5 Stars] What is it with third books in urban fantasy series? Seriously. Magic Strikes by Ilona Andrews was one of my favorites from the series, and it was the third book in the series. Iron Kissed is no different. Oh. My. Goodness. This was really freaking good. I love Mercy, her character development, how she thinks, just her entire decision process is amazing. She goes through so much in this book, so freaking much, and I admit it was a little hard to read at times, but I really love how Patricia Briggs handled everything in this book. Wow, so many run-on sentences. I also loved how we got more fae in this book. It was cool learning more about them, and can we all just collectively acknowledge how much of a badass Zee is? Seriously if him and Aunt B from Kate Daniels series ever had a conversation, that would be one hell of a meeting! I'm just blabbing at this point, but yeah I loved this one. The series just keeps getting better and better, and it is already a firm favorite. Can't wait to read more! (Hopefully we see some Stefan in the next book... hopefully? may be?) ...more I liked the main plot of this one better than the first two. Fae! Interesting! And Zee is awesome. I had a lot of issues with other things though. I think I would enjoy this series a lot more without the romance, and this book had more of that than the others did. I think that, if the choice is between Adam and Samuel, Mercy made the right choice; that doesn't mean I like Adam. I hate all the werewolf dominance stuff, and Adam has his dominance turned up to eleven. He's controlling and possessive I liked the main plot of this one better than the first two. Fae! Interesting! And Zee is awesome. I had a lot of issues with other things though. I think I would enjoy this series a lot more without the romance, and this book had more of that than the others did. I think that, if the choice is between Adam and Samuel, Mercy made the right choice; that doesn't mean I like Adam. I hate all the werewolf dominance stuff, and Adam has his dominance turned up to eleven. He's controlling and possessive and can control her against her will (and does , immediately after saying he won't; I don't care if he thought it for her own good, that should not be his call ) and, oh yeah, will stalk her to the ends of the earth if she tries to get away from him. That's not romantic, it's creepy as hell. He might give her more freedom than Samuel would have, but not by much. I feel like she's giving up a lot of herself for him, and he doesn't seem worth it. Mercy goes on about pretending to be submissive, but it seems like she's actually submitting to him more than she realizes. I'm just really uncomfortable with their relationship. The rape was another thing I had issues with. The actual event I could deal with; it was horrifying, but that was the point. But I was very uncomfortable with the aftermath, particularly that she was ready for a sexual relationship so soon after it happened. A sexual relationship with someone who, like her rapist, can potentially control her against her will (I don't care if he says he won't). It seemed way too soon for that after such a seriously traumatic event. I don't like rape as a plot device anyway, but rape as a plot device that ends up bringing people together romantically? CREEPY. The werewolf politics and whatnot just make me generally uncomfortable. I like Warren and Ben, but I could do without all the rest of them and be very happy. I'll definitely get the next book in the series whenever it is published, but, yeah, I also definitely have a lot of issues with it. Still fun that it's set where I live though. This one was especially weird since, not only could I picture where everything was, but they were at Tumbleweed. I go to that music festival every year! If this book was real, I would have walked right by Samuel when he was performing that day. ...more Also finished this while traveling in Australia. Yep, I'm on an urban fantasy kick and this series is meeting all my expectations for great UF. January 2017 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah December 2015 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah : Every time I start this book I have a huge sense of anticipation and - at the same time - a huge sense of apprehension. This is one of my favorite books in the series and considering it deals with one of the most difficult triggers (for me), that's saying something. So, TRIGGER WARNING (AND SPOILER): this book contains rape. It is not gratuitous, nor is it graphic, but it happens. And it never feels like one January 2017 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah December 2015 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah : Every time I start this book I have a huge sense of anticipation and - at the same time - a huge sense of apprehension. This is one of my favorite books in the series and considering it deals with one of the most difficult triggers (for me), that's saying something. So, TRIGGER WARNING (AND SPOILER): this book contains rape. It is not gratuitous, nor is it graphic, but it happens. And it never feels like one of those things that happens just to make the heroine suffer (as I've read in so many books). It's a real trauma and it's handled with care and delicacy. The relationship developments in this story are what really drove me. We learn so much more about everyone that this is the book that ended up cementing my love of ALL the characters in this book. Samuel's quiet despair - and care, in spite of that; Adam's stubborn, steady love; Ben's ... well, I'll let you read and find out. Then, through it all, tying everyone together, is Mercy. It's her strength of heart, I think, that draws so many people to her. When she claims someone as hers, that's it. They're hers. She will do anything for them, anything to help them. This doesn't mean that she forgives or forgets easily, but that she still loves - always. I love that about her. I also love that she's smart, and she knows how to work around the autocratic ways of the Pack. Another reason this is my favorite book (of the first three) is that it deals so much with the fae and their artifacts. The fae in this series are fascinating. These aren't the fairy-tale fae that you've read about (unless you've been reading the really dark stuff). They're dangerous, not usually nice, and incredibly tricky. Though they can't lie, they do the next best thing and obfuscate with truth. And I love them. I always want more of Mercy's dealings with them. Probably because they kind of scare me. I will say that I'm not a fan of where the book ends. It's a hell of a cliff-hanger - and not necessary. But, luckily, you can now pick up Bone Crossed immediately and pick up right where it left off. And that's just what I did. Original Review: Mercy at one point thinks, in this book, that she's suddenly not quite so anonymous in the preternatural communities anymore. That after spending nearly 15 years without any significant contact with them, she's been absolutely embroiled in mess after mess for the past couple of years. First it was helping Adam get Jesse back, then she owed Stefan for that one. After helping Stefan, she ends up owing the fae. And this is where we pick up Iron Kissed. Fae are getting murdered on the reservation, and they have no idea who's doing it. Zee and Uncle Mike call Mercy in to sniff around and see if she can come up with anything. And she does. But then things go bad. Zee's arrested for murder of a human, the fae look to be leaving him to hang, and Mercy won't stand for it. I loved this book. It's a page-turner for me to this day (several re-reads later), and I can never put it down or stop reading it. We get a lot more insight into Mercy's relationships with Samuel and Adam, and how his claiming her as his mate affected him and the pack, in this book. And I'm glad to say I was ecstatic when she chose. I don't want to say too much about this and risk spoiling anything because it's such a wonderful book. But I will say that there's some very hard moments in it. Heart-breaking, and wrenching, and they had me in tears several times. And it does end on one big cliff-hanger, though the main story is tied up. It was hell waiting for Bone Crossed to come out when I first read this. P.S. I loved Ben from, nearly, the first moment we met him, but I have to say my love and care for him solidified in this book. ...more Oh my God, you guys. Stop the presses! I have figured it out. The sudden, shocking explosion of paranormal romantical urban fantasy written in the first-person on a plucky, mouthy heroin? You wondered why, and now I know. It's not the blood-tingling appeal of a sexy vampire. Oh no no no. It's much better than that. I mean, this is 2008, for God's sake. We're, like, post feminist, okay? We want books about plucky, smart-mouthed heroins who every man [vampire, werewolf, police officer [delete as a Oh my God, you guys. Stop the presses! I have figured it out. The sudden, shocking explosion of paranormal romantical urban fantasy written in the first-person on a plucky, mouthy heroin? You wondered why, and now I know. It's not the blood-tingling appeal of a sexy vampire. Oh no no no. It's much better than that. I mean, this is 2008, for God's sake. We're, like, post feminist, okay? We want books about plucky, smart-mouthed heroins who every man [vampire, werewolf, police officer [delete as applicable]] inexplicably falls in love with. But we really don't want to get carried away, right? Don't want to ruin a good thing. Which is why this whole paranormal romantical first-person fantasy thing is awesome \u2013 your [vampire, werewolf, alpha of the pack [[delete as applicable]] can be the overbearing, obnoxious, belittling asshole of yore, but it's all right, he can't help it, it's the nature of being a [vampire, werewolf, alpha of the pack [[delete as applicable]]. You have the awesome hotness of a disrespectful, dominating love interest, and none of that nasty guilt! Even when our heroin is raped and spends the rest of the book angsting about how this means the pack won't respect her boyfriend anymore! Win! ...more [4.5 Stars] I am more pleased than this cat right now! I really am very very satisfied with Patricia Briggs and the way she dealt with this novel. I loved the plot, I loved the action and I just freaking loved Mercy! I had picked up this series about 2 years ago. That was a time when I was obsessed with the PNR genre, bitten with the Vampire Academy bug you could say. I read so much of PNR that I really wasn\u2019t surprised when I finally got nauseated with it. I hated the bitchy self sacrificing protagonist, t I am more pleased than this cat right now! I really am very very satisfied with Patricia Briggs and the way she dealt with this novel. I loved the plot, I loved the action and I just freaking loved Mercy! I had picked up this series about 2 years ago. That was a time when I was obsessed with the PNR genre, bitten with the Vampire Academy bug you could say. I read so much of PNR that I really wasn\u2019t surprised when I finally got nauseated with it. I hated the bitchy self sacrificing protagonist, the oh so perfect heroes and especially the darn LOVE TRIANGLES! Every book I read made me think: I hung garlic around my neck (Edward doesn\u2019t get repulsed by that stuff, cauz he isn\u2019t a VAMPIRE!) and went for a pilgrimage down the lane of other genres;thus leaving behind many series unread. Some of the series include: Vampire Academy (couldn\u2019t deal with Rose), House Of the Night(EEEEKS!), Suhkeeh series(oops, Sookie), Awakened series(bleh), Midnight Breed(booo!), Night Huntress(5th part wasn\u2019t out) and Mercy Thompson. The prime reason why I left this series was the love triangle; which was on the verge of becoming a square, due to Stefan (another freaking vampire!)and his proclamation of love to Mercy. After reading this book though, I think the love triangle and the way it was resolved was one of the most satisfying aspects of this novel. Yes, there is a love triangle, but unlike other Mercy has a rock solid reason for being incapable to choose between the very hot alternatives. The hot alternatives are the overprotective Adam, and the over caring Sam. She loves both of them, and again, unlike others she isn\u2019t lying. Mercy isn\u2019t the kind of person to be the damsel in distress and let people take care of her, even if they are as amazing as Sam and Adam. I think, ultimately, that is the reason why they and the readers respect her. Mercy really stands out among her contemporary PNR heroines. She might be the only one who is not a hypocrite. She isn\u2019t an all sacrificing and righteous, still she is loyal, and stands by her fae friend Zee, she disobeys orders and realizes the stupidity of it and most of all, and she isn\u2019t disillusioned into thinking that keeping facts helps protect people. Like I said, the love triangle is resolved in a very very convincing and satisfying way, not involving killing one off, making them fall in love with their baby, or hatred between former lovers. Mercy makes a choice! And I understand her reasons, and I really admire her for not going down the \u201cbut if I choose, that would break my heart!\u201d road. Rose, Ehlena, Sookie, Zooey, learn something! All, I am yammering away is about the love affairs, but the book really wasn\u2019t totally focused on it. This series is waay too good for that. In fact, the mystery surrounding the murders was thrilling; and the supernatural characters all too real. Also that incident at the end was equal parts shocking and heart breaking. Ben\u2019s character is shown in a totally new light and I LOVED IT! Very very pleased with a PNR novel after a very long time. PS: What\u2019s with the totally inappropriate and disgusting cover? I know, don\u2019t judge book by its cover, still, what were they thinking? ...more Iron Kissed was deceptively calm in the beginning, and then all hell broke loose. Parts of the ending were shocking and heartbreaking, and then touching and heartwarming. You\u2019ve won my heart Adam! As you can probably guess from the title, the mystery here revolves around the fae. Mercy is called in for assistance by her former boss and sort of father figure. The fae are a dangerous and powerful race full of secrets, and don\u2019t like outsiders discovering them. So of course, Mercy puts herself in gr Iron Kissed was deceptively calm in the beginning, and then all hell broke loose. Parts of the ending were shocking and heartbreaking, and then touching and heartwarming. You\u2019ve won my heart Adam! As you can probably guess from the title, the mystery here revolves around the fae. Mercy is called in for assistance by her former boss and sort of father figure. The fae are a dangerous and powerful race full of secrets, and don\u2019t like outsiders discovering them. So of course, Mercy puts herself in grave danger to help out her friend. Fortunately, she has the wolves at her back. I\u2019m not going to go into a long review, but I will say this is my favorite so far of the series. As I said it was heartbreaking and intense for Mercy and I\u2019m sure the after effects will haunt her in the future. The situation with Adam, Samuel and Mercy is finally resolved and I\u2019m thrilled with how things turned out. I can\u2019t wait to see how it impacts Mercy and her friends in the coming books. I want to mention that I was pleasantly surprised by Ben who I have been wary of in the past. He stepped up and won my heart in the process. This series is shaping up to be a favorite of mine, burrowing into my heart a little more with each installment! I listened to the audio version of this book and I highly recommend it Lorelei King\u2019s narration was perfection! Favorite quote: \u201cIt's only fair to warn you that you sealed your fate tonight. When you knew you were in trouble, you came to me. That makes twice, Mercy, and twice is almost as good as a declaration. You are mine now.... Ben says you might run. If you do, I will find you and bring you back. Every time you run, Mercy. I won't force you, but. .. No more excuses, Mercy. You are mine, and I am keeping you.\u201d ...more *** 4.40 *** I read this in one breath... Mercy and her battle for survival after some of her choices, which are never well thought out but always deeply felt, kept me up most of the night. This time it is the Fae friend who is in trouble and Mercy's devotion to those she calls her friends once again lands her in some deep and dark waters... Some times literally... This same loyalty is what makes me fall more and more with this character - she is everything I think a good UF leading lady should *** 4.40 *** I read this in one breath... Mercy and her battle for survival after some of her choices, which are never well thought out but always deeply felt, kept me up most of the night. This time it is the Fae friend who is in trouble and Mercy's devotion to those she calls her friends once again lands her in some deep and dark waters... Some times literally... This same loyalty is what makes me fall more and more with this character - she is everything I think a good UF leading lady should be - emotionally strong, loyal, smart, but at the same time not invulnerable, quite disadvantaged when it comes to magic and physical strength when it comes to her very powerful enemies... Well, with every book the stakes on her safety are raised and she takes more blows both physically and emotionally... By the end of the book we wonder if she will ever be strong enough to live through her latest adventures... I do not want to give anything away - the fun of reading these books is the tension that comes with not knowing how things will progress.. . The books continue being written in the classic Urban Fantasy stile and I do believe they get better with every new issue. Patricia Briggs is a gifted story teller and I like diving in the pool of her creativity despite it not being as flashy or frantically paced as some of the newer books out there... I am a fan and am impatient to finish this review and get into the next volume. So, as always, happy reading to all!!! :-) ...more These books are trashy. Normally, I enjoy them anyway, they are a guilty pleasure. This third book in the Mercedes series has the weakest plot of them all. Not much really happens in it. I can forgive that, since I find the books to be near-romance novel quality. The biggest problem I have with it, other than the main character's whining about the decisions of her love life, is the author's inability to write. Oh, Briggs can compose a sentence and her grammar is fine, but the treatment she gives These books are trashy. Normally, I enjoy them anyway, they are a guilty pleasure. This third book in the Mercedes series has the weakest plot of them all. Not much really happens in it. I can forgive that, since I find the books to be near-romance novel quality. The biggest problem I have with it, other than the main character's whining about the decisions of her love life, is the author's inability to write. Oh, Briggs can compose a sentence and her grammar is fine, but the treatment she gives certain situations and topics in the book is . . . I don't want to say ham-fisted, because she crafted it well. She just didn't craft it right. The male behavior (even the behavior explained away as 'werwolf' behavior), the culminating event of the book, all should have been treated with more depth and respect and understanding. I guess I will have to give away a bit of the end of the book to better explain this. There is a rape in the book. Yes, the rape has certain supernatural characteristics in it, but it is still a rape, and still presented very much like a non-magical criminal rape. Now, maybe Briggs did do research on the subject, and maybe she did speak to rape victims before writing the book. Maybe she even (and I certainly hope not) was the victim of violence, sexual or otherwise, herself. If she was or had done any of that, I would be totally surprised. The way the main character deals with her rape in this novel, you would think Briggs didn't do any of that. It reads as if she never spoke to a rape victim before, or even watched a moderately serious movie on the subject. This is probably my last Briggs novel. The author's inability to realistically portray the seriousness of certain events (or explain them away, such as 'he was sexually abused as a child and that's why he's a real jerk now') totally killed it for me. I enjoy the universe and mythology she has set up in these books. I would love to see some other author write a story in the same setting. ...more I love this series! I have a huge girl crush on Mercy. I love Patricia Briggs\u2019 fascinating world where werewolves and fae walk amongst us. In this installment of the Mercy Thompson series, Mercy is asked to investigate a few murders on the fae reservation. She accompanies Zee to sniff out several of the crime scenes. Mercy seems to have the power to act as a bridge between our world and the super secret world of the fae. The fae world reminds me of Dr. Who\u2019s tardis \u2013 what we see on the outside i I love this series! I have a huge girl crush on Mercy. I love Patricia Briggs\u2019 fascinating world where werewolves and fae walk amongst us. In this installment of the Mercy Thompson series, Mercy is asked to investigate a few murders on the fae reservation. She accompanies Zee to sniff out several of the crime scenes. Mercy seems to have the power to act as a bridge between our world and the super secret world of the fae. The fae world reminds me of Dr. Who\u2019s tardis \u2013 what we see on the outside is not necessarily the reality. The fae reservation seems to be a portal to their Underhill, complete with a sandy ocean and a hungry selkie. The characters are what make this series so special. We are treated to Samuel\u2019s musical side at the Tumbleweed festival, Warren and Kyle\u2019s homey and entertaining banter, and some very eye opening girl talk between Honey and Mercy. Ben, a character that I despised in the last book, redeemed himself with his revelations to Adam about Mercy. I liked how we are given a glimpse of Zee without his fae glamor. Nemane, one of the Gray Lords, was a great addition to the fae cast of characters, as was the very hungry and scary Fideal. It is in this book that Mercy\u2019s special role in her world is fully realized. Mercy understands that she walks a fine line between calming and inciting her wolves. She has a special place in Zee and Uncle Mike\u2019s hearts, too. Mercy is therefore under the protection of both the wolves and the fae. The best part of the book was Mercy\u2019s self realization of her choice of mate. Throughout the first two books she vacillated between Samuel and Adam in a kind of love triangle (or square if you add Stefan). This competition between two dominant wolves was tenuous at the best of times. Mercy\u2019s thought process behind her choice was truly insightful. I can\u2019t wait to read the next book in the series. I can\u2019t seem to get enough of this world. ...more Wow. I don\u2019t think I can write a review without gushing about this book! Iron Kissed completely surpassed my expectations, went beyond anything I could have conjured up in my mind about Mercy and seriously left me in shock by the time I flipped the last page. Seriously. Blown. Away. As the first book dealt primarily with werewolves and the second with vampires, Iron Kissed focused mainly on the fae. Now I\u2019m not usually a fae fan, but Briggs writes about a world that isn\u2019t too different from ours Wow. I don\u2019t think I can write a review without gushing about this book! Iron Kissed completely surpassed my expectations, went beyond anything I could have conjured up in my mind about Mercy and seriously left me in shock by the time I flipped the last page. Seriously. Blown. Away. As the first book dealt primarily with werewolves and the second with vampires, Iron Kissed focused mainly on the fae. Now I\u2019m not usually a fae fan, but Briggs writes about a world that isn\u2019t too different from ours. Mercy has to get up each morning and go to work. She\u2019s got bills to pay and so on, but Briggs incorporates fantasy element flawlessly into her narrative and it just makes the Mercy Thompson world more appealing. I think that\u2019s why I love Mercy so much. She\u2019s just a regular girl who just so happens to be a coyote shifter that gets caught up in another world. New characters are introduced in this book and I knew from the moment that Tim was introduced that he would be some major trouble. What I didn\u2019t know was how he had the power to break someone as strong and resistant as Mercy. I\u2019ve noticed that rape is popular in a lot of UF series. I don\u2019t know why and I don\u2019t see the appeal in making your heroine endure something so traumatic, but it got to me. Out of the three books so far, this one had the most heart in it. And if I didn\u2019t love Mercy already, I think this book would have made me love her even more. It wasn\u2019t just because I felt sympathy for her, though I did, it was the fact that she still fought Tim despite her believing that he was her love. It showcased an inner strength of true love and will more so than any other book I\u2019ve read in awhile. Briggs finally addressed the whole Adam/Sam debacle and she did it well. She managed to write it so that Mercy finally chooses Adam, but still doesn\u2019t disregard Samuel as a person she once loved in the past. I thought the car scene with Sam was perfect. It was sometimes tense and angry, but also lovable. It makes it believable that Sam and Mercy can go on as friends. And then there\u2019s that bathroom scene with Adam and Mercy. I wish I could have Adam\u2019s werewolf babies! I just adore him and I love how he takes care of Mercy. With Mercy so vulnerable after everything that has happened, you can see the change in Adam already. He\u2019s still fiercely possessive and has that temper, but there\u2019s tenderness when he\u2019s with Mercy. I can\u2019t wait to see how their relationship works out! My favourite quote from this book is as fiercely passionate as the Alpha who said it. A little territorial and very honest, it\u2019s almost as if he\u2019s telling her he loves her. *sigh* His hands, which had been moving in circles in my fur, stopped and took a good hold. \u201cBen says you might run. If you do, I will find you and bring you back. Every time you run, Mercy. I won\u2019t force you, but... I won\u2019t leave or let you leave either. If you can fight that cursed fairy drink, you can certainly overcome any advantage being an Alpha gives me if you really want to. No more excuses, Mercy. You are mine, and I am keeping you.\u201d ...more It was really nice to step back into Mercy's world after reading a less than stellar shifter romance . It was also interesting that this focused on the Fae this time. For once, Mercy isn't the cause of the trouble in this book. Well, at least not at first. She gets a call from Zee to go check out the Walla Walla Reservation, or Fairyland as it's commonly known. He wants her to do some sniffing around at some crime scenes to see if she can find something that may have been missed. Mercy ends up do It was really nice to step back into Mercy's world after reading a less than stellar shifter romance . It was also interesting that this focused on the Fae this time. For once, Mercy isn't the cause of the trouble in this book. Well, at least not at first. She gets a call from Zee to go check out the Walla Walla Reservation, or Fairyland as it's commonly known. He wants her to do some sniffing around at some crime scenes to see if she can find something that may have been missed. Mercy ends up doing just that and a little bit more, she sees something she's not supposed to and gets the attention of the Gray Lords. And then, when she tells Zee who the killer is and he goes to \"talk\" to the culprit he and Uncle Mike find the killer dead and the cops pull up to the scene with Zee still kneeling in the warm blood. He gets arrested for the murder and it's up to Mercy to figure out what's really going on. First I have to say I don't know how anyone thought this book was slow. I couldn't put it down and I read it straight through in an afternoon. I like stories about Fae though so if you don't you might find parts kind of boring, but I couldn't wait to see what would turn up next. I love the relationships that Mercy has with everyone and I'm really happy that she's finally chosen one of the men. I almost gave this book 3 stars with where it ended, but I peeked at Bone Crossed and the first few page are the last few of this one, so it picks up right where it left off! I was worried she'd just fade to black and I'm glad she didn't because I can't wait for the juicy details! I somehow got spoiled on part of this book and so I had it in the back of my mind the entire time I was reading, waiting for it to happen. So try to avoid spoilers if you can! Even though I knew what was going to happen I still had trouble reading it. And I had even more trouble with the aftermath because it was positively heartbreaking. I thought the explanation with Ben at the end was a little long-winded but when he teared up, so did I. So sad. Can't wait to read the next one and I'm glad we get to find out what's going to happen with Marsilia, the vampire queen. That should be interesting . ...more Well, the plot does thicken, and this book sucked me so much further into Briggs world. It never slows down and was completely un-put-down-able! Mercy's mechanical mentor Zee comes to her for help 'sniffing out' a killer of the fae. When Mercy involves herself in fae affairs, many of them don't take kindly to her poking her nose into their secrets. And it's not even the guilty party that is the only bad guy here. These fairies are evil! They don't mind Zee taking the fall for the crime as long a Well, the plot does thicken, and this book sucked me so much further into Briggs world. It never slows down and was completely un-put-down-able! Mercy's mechanical mentor Zee comes to her for help 'sniffing out' a killer of the fae. When Mercy involves herself in fae affairs, many of them don't take kindly to her poking her nose into their secrets. And it's not even the guilty party that is the only bad guy here. These fairies are evil! They don't mind Zee taking the fall for the crime as long as it keeps human police out of their reservation and out of their affairs. Of course, Mercy won't stand for that, and in opposition to what everyone, including her alpha Adam, and even Zee, wants, she sets out to clear Zee of the crime. There is some disturbing content in this installment of the Mercy Thompson series. Not in graphic detail, but I know that some are sensitive to rape scenes, or in this case, more of a forced seduction date rape type of thing, so I feel like I should give a warning. I know as a woman, it made my gut churn and it was almost more than I was prepared to handle. Again, not in detail, but enough was there to get the gist of it. If you want more Adam and Samuel and are looking for a resolution, this is definitely the book for you! Mercy finally makes a decision; in fact, the decision seems to be mutual. Although the future is still left up in the air a bit, at least this love triangle is over and we can look forward to Mercy's future with.******. And don't get too excited because the fade to black love scenes leave pretty much everything to your imagination, which sort of feels like Briggs cheated. I wanted a bit more. Still, this book was amazing. The world of Mercy is multifaceted to the extent that I once again wonder if Briggs manages to reside there somehow. I feel like I'm right there with Mercy for the entire story, I'm so sucked in! Five stars from me for this amazing third book in a fantastic Urban Fantasy series!! ...more Stefan! Where are you??? Seriously, he is MIA in Iron Kissed . Bloody vampires, they think they have all the time in the world\u2026. One of the things that I appreciate about Mercy Thompson is her loyalty to her friends. And she has to be very loyal indeed to make her way through this third installment of the tale, because everyone seems to be trying pretty hard to convince her not to trust them anymore. She takes a big risk to fulfill her obligation to the Fae and what do they do? Make her life miser Stefan! Where are you??? Seriously, he is MIA in Iron Kissed . Bloody vampires, they think they have all the time in the world\u2026. One of the things that I appreciate about Mercy Thompson is her loyalty to her friends. And she has to be very loyal indeed to make her way through this third installment of the tale, because everyone seems to be trying pretty hard to convince her not to trust them anymore. She takes a big risk to fulfill her obligation to the Fae and what do they do? Make her life miserable! Even her mechanical mentor Zee is reportedly saying nasty things from the jail cell that he has ended up in. Despite the fact that she is trying to exonerate him and the rest of the Fae seem to be willing to let him take the fall. Plus, the werewolves are behaving like werewolves (i.e. bossy, pushy, insistent) when maybe they ought to just tone it down a notch. There\u2019s a reason that Mercy is such a tough cookie, and it\u2019s from dealing with them for her whole life. At least by book\u2019s end, it seems that Mercy has made a choice between Adam and Sam, and it seems well reasoned and sound. Mercy needs some women friends in the worst possible way. Much as I love Kyle and Warren, they just can\u2019t replace what female friends have to offer\u2014people to talk to, no holds barred, about the things that are bothering you, not trying to fix, just to listen while your sort it out for yourself by trying to explain it to a trusted other. As strong as Mercy is, she could be even stronger with a woman or two on her side. ...more This one just blew my mind. I couldn't stop reading and what happened in the last 3 chapters? I have to have more...More! My mom keeps annoying me saying that even being addicted to books isn't good. But MOM... It took three books for Patricia Briggs to get a 5 Star review out of me. I'd say that's pretty damn good. Iron Kissed is simply...breath taking. Not only did it center around the fae - easily the most mysterious and subtly dangerous of the three paranormal species that feature heavily in this series - but it also contained an unexpected depth of insight into Mercy herself. And, of course, for those who have already read this book, the end chapters will come as both a shock and an inspiration, a It took three books for Patricia Briggs to get a 5 Star review out of me. I'd say that's pretty damn good. Iron Kissed is simply...breath taking. Not only did it center around the fae - easily the most mysterious and subtly dangerous of the three paranormal species that feature heavily in this series - but it also contained an unexpected depth of insight into Mercy herself. And, of course, for those who have already read this book, the end chapters will come as both a shock and an inspiration, a saddening act of events and one that is courageous and compelling at the same time. More than anything else, it is the perfect balance between plot and character, feeling and emotion that Briggs has managed to achieve with this novel that has made me love it so. What makes the Mercy Thompson Series so unique is simply how well-plotted they are. With the other UF novels I've read - Kate Daniels and Downside Ghosts - each book is a separate adventure that is loosely connected to the previous novels, mostly because of the secondary characters. While this works perfectly and keeps me enthralled, I'm both surprised and enamored by the clear-cut cause-and-effect method of Briggs' plots. Each novel builds off the events of the previous installment, making even the first book one of utmost importance. With Iron Kissed especially, the repercussions of past situations have come back to haunt Mercy and she finds herself suddenly in the debt of the fae. More than that, though, she finds herself forced to choose between Adam and Samuel. What I love about the love triangle in this series is that it isn't overwhelming or dramatic in any way - perhaps because it takes place between mature adults. Instead of a plethora of making out and then guilt and then a ridiculous death to get rid of the third - and unfortunately un-chosen guy - in the love triangle, the romantic entanglements in this novel work so that Mercy can clearly think through what she wants from life before rushing into any type of romantic relationship at all. Although I usually shy away from love triangles, I absolutely loved the way it was solved in this - the understanding, the friendships, the bonds. Iron Kissed is practically a perfect book in the sense that we really get inside Mercy's head - well and truly in it - and our understanding of her, of the other wolves in Adam's pack, and of the mystery at hand in this novel. With these three elements working seamlessly together, it's no wonder that this is the best of the series yet. You can read this review\" and more on my blog, Ivy Book Bindings. ...more WTF??? The ending really? I stayed up until 2:30 this morning finishing this up. I cried a little, I was surprised but Mercy was really put through the ringer in this one. On the other hand ugh they are making this so hard on themselves... Seriously Mercy just pick him!!! I promise you won't lose yourself in Adam. Sam please move on, and let her live. Definitely liked the crime and didn't think so much of the weirdo but he did fit all the motives to it. Was missing Stefan in this one, but got to WTF??? The ending really? I stayed up until 2:30 this morning finishing this up. I cried a little, I was surprised but Mercy was really put through the ringer in this one. On the other hand ugh they are making this so hard on themselves... Seriously Mercy just pick him!!! I promise you won't lose yourself in Adam. Sam please move on, and let her live. Definitely liked the crime and didn't think so much of the weirdo but he did fit all the motives to it. Was missing Stefan in this one, but got to see Warren. I'm happy! ...more Lately I\u2019ve been craving some alpha-shifter-romance novels and I stumbled upon my Mercy Thomson shelf. There was a time before my kindle, you know, when I ordered books and never really read them resulting in me hording a full shelf of Patricia Briggs novels that are now morphing into dust catchers in my basement. I\u2019ve been reading Mercy Thompson a few years back but never went further than book nr. 2. Unfortunately, this hasn\u2019t kept me from pre-ordering every fucking book which leaves me no oth Lately I\u2019ve been craving some alpha-shifter-romance novels and I stumbled upon my Mercy Thomson shelf. There was a time before my kindle, you know, when I ordered books and never really read them resulting in me hording a full shelf of Patricia Briggs novels that are now morphing into dust catchers in my basement. I\u2019ve been reading Mercy Thompson a few years back but never went further than book nr. 2. Unfortunately, this hasn\u2019t kept me from pre-ordering every fucking book which leaves me no other option but to admit that clearly I suffer from compulsive book hoarding syndrome. There you have it, I need help, medical care, psychological therapy. The first Mercy Thommpson book was even better than I remembered and I was sucked right back into this world. Then I skipped the second book, Blood Bound , because it was all about the vamps and went right to the third book Iron Kissed , which focuses on the fey. I love Briggs\u2019 fey, especially Zee. Why? I am just so impressed about the accurate German references in this book. As you might know, Briggs graduated from Montana State University with degrees in history and German and her love for German cars, German language and German fairy tales shows. I adore it! But the more the story in Iron Kissed progressed the more it got difficult for me to really like it. Some of the scenes were so bewildering. \"M\u00e9nage-\u00e0-trois\" or \"Curtain up for alpha monstrosities\": A love triangle is not per se something I dislike, but in this case both male characters and the execution of the romance were more than perplexing. Mercy switches her \"love/affection\" between her childhood sweetheart Sam and her more recent attraction to Adam. I was into neither of them. Sam a several hundred years old Werewolf tried to seduce her at age 16 not because he loved her or anything but because Mercy in his eyes was the only female worldwide (talk about specialness, yo!) who can give birth to werewolf puppies. What a creepy, pedophile, manipulative bastard. And now he is Mercy\u2019s roommate and wants to win her back? And she lets him court her, because she has these First Love memories? He coldly manipulated her into falling in love with him when she was just 14, he wanted to marry and mate with her when she was 16/17. This is just something \u2026 simply no! And there is this moment after a party when they both laugh it off and decide they are not in love with each other and never will be? This was the lamest solving of a love-triangle I ever heard of. You just don\u2019t fall out of love one night after being in love for more than 15 years. Just no! And then there is Adam, Alpha supreme, and imho asshole superlative. He is constantly invading her personal space, he showers his unwanted affection on her, he declared her his mate before his pack and now she has to deal with the ramifications. And everybody pesters her to decide although she never wanted to be his mate in the first place. Example: He installs a security system in her garage without even asking her. I never for one second felt emotional attached to their \u201cromance\u201d. I just couldn\u2019t care less about his character. There is a scene at the beginning where his daughter comes home after being beaten by some high-school dumbasses and he doesn\u2019t care that she is bleeding and hurt, he doesn\u2019t call a doctor \u2026 What he does is shouting and intimidating her further into telling him who did it so he can go and murder them. Mercy has to constantly tiptoe around his volatile character and play submissive wolf just so that Adam doesn\u2019t turn HULK punching walls. I mean really this is sooooo not romantic: a pedophile creep on the one side and an aggressive cave-man who barely controls himself on the other. My bullshit-o-meter alarm is blaring. (view spoiler) [And then the ending: Are you fucking kidding me? She was raped and two days later she walks around all back to normal and decides I am no victim and thus is over the whole rape-incident and then decides that Adam is THE MAN and has sex with him??????????? (hide spoiler) ] How to change from awesome to stupid female Mercy\u2019s character also made a 180 degree turn from the first book to this one. She gets herself non-stop into stupid and dangerous situations and then runs screaming to Adam for help where in Moon Called she was the one who saved Adams life and helped save his daughter. It\u2019s like she digresses from a smart and inventive, albeit impulsive heroine into an emotional instable bunny that needs constant saving and pampering. It was very sad to witness her decline. Conclusion The mystery elements and the overall storyline as well as the world of shifters, witches and vampires really kept me engrossed. But the romance and character development annoyed the hell out of me. ...more 4.5 Stars Note to self, never use a Fae item more than you are allowed to, it gets you into nothing but trouble. Mercy owes the Fae a favor and Zee hopes that if she helps them solve a string of murders on the reservation she will be able to fulfill the favor without much dismay. Haha we all knew it wasn\u2019t going to be that easy right. \u201cShe sees ghosts,\u201d said Samuel, impatient with my whining. I see dead people,\u201d I deadpanned back. Oddly, it was Uncle Mike who laughed. I hadn\u2019t thought he\u2019d be a mo 4.5 Stars Note to self, never use a Fae item more than you are allowed to, it gets you into nothing but trouble. Mercy owes the Fae a favor and Zee hopes that if she helps them solve a string of murders on the reservation she will be able to fulfill the favor without much dismay. Haha we all knew it wasn\u2019t going to be that easy right. \u201cShe sees ghosts,\u201d said Samuel, impatient with my whining. I see dead people,\u201d I deadpanned back. Oddly, it was Uncle Mike who laughed. I hadn\u2019t thought he\u2019d be a moviegoer.\u201d Since Mercy has a great sense of smell and an ability to see ghosts she agrees to check out a few crime scenes to help Zee find out who is killing Fae on the reservation. It seems easy enough an open and shut case, smell the bad guy and the Fae will distribute justice. But like everything Mercy sticks her nose into it always becomes more complicated and Zee ends up in jail for murder and the Fae have noticed Mercy and have a growing interest in her. This was an emotional book for me. The author really took some bigger chances and man our heroine goes through some huge trials. I teared up and cried in parts. The trauma that Mercy endures is difficult to read through, but very well written and goes to show that even our heroine is not safe from terrible deeds. Break out character of the book award goes to Ben! I hated Ben in the first book, he grew on me a bit in the second and now I think he might be one of my favorites. The way that Ben stands up to help Mercy by explaining things to Adam was in a word WOW. He grew on me so much in that speech and it meant more since he really laid into our Alpha when that is a bit taboo as a low wolf. But Ben saw things clearly and I really got a great insight into the mind of a victim. Let\u2019s also say that the love triangle gets resolved in an interesting way that I really felt good about. I understand both Samuel and Adam more after this book and their motivations. This is one of the few love triangle resolutions that felt true to me. I liked that Mercy was strong enough not to bounce between the two men in her life and use them against the other. Instead she figured it out and resolved things like an adult. (view spoiler) [ \u201cIt's only fair to warn you that you sealed your fate tonight. When you knew you were in trouble, you came to me. That makes twice, Mercy, and twice is almost as good as a declaration. You are mine now.... Ben says you might run. If you do, I will find you and bring you back. Every time you run, Mercy. I won't force you, but. .. No more excuses, Mercy. You are mine, and I am keeping you.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] This was my favorite in the series so far even with the harsher content. It was handled very well and believably. ...more I'll keep it short. Mercy fans, look away. If not for relationship and character developments, I would suggest skipping Iron Kissed , Mercy Thompson #3. Kissed's writing is rough and artless at times. It suffers from repetition, pacing problems, and pay-attention-to-this-boring-sh-t-that-turns-out-important problems. (Maybe that's a more authentic crime novel.) We don't need to read a discussion of To Wong Foo or for the fifth time read that the Gray Lords are bad, real bad, m'kay ? I don't need to I'll keep it short. Mercy fans, look away. If not for relationship and character developments, I would suggest skipping Iron Kissed , Mercy Thompson #3. Kissed's writing is rough and artless at times. It suffers from repetition, pacing problems, and pay-attention-to-this-boring-sh-t-that-turns-out-important problems. (Maybe that's a more authentic crime novel.) We don't need to read a discussion of To Wong Foo or for the fifth time read that the Gray Lords are bad, real bad, m'kay ? I don't need to listen to Mercy judging people on their choices of window treatments or going on about hot cocoa \"the real stuff.\" Can I get some editing? We don't know any more about the reserved fae than when we started, who are, after all, the novel's premise. So I didn't care about them any more than when I started. If I told you \"You see too much, Mercy\" and spoiled The Event, I think I would have summed up all the substance in Kissed . The investigation was nonexistent outside of the preliminaries that her tight-lipped teammates could have revealed at any time because the Murderer reveals his or her self, complete with a villain's speech describing motive, means, etc. I didn't think exploiting something terrible as a plot device really compensated for all the tedium of the rest of the book, I'm sorry to say. I think I was right in putting this down the first time. ...more I think I just about hyperventilated through the last three chapters of this book. Excuse me, but I must get this out of my system --- OMFG!!! Anyway, this is the third of Patricia Briggs' Mercy Thompson series. Just as the first book was an introduction to the wolves and the second book brought the Vamps to the fore, this one brings the third of the major preternatural \"races\", the Fae into sharp focus. Mercy is asked by her friends in the Fae community to use her special talents to help them track I think I just about hyperventilated through the last three chapters of this book. Excuse me, but I must get this out of my system --- OMFG!!! Anyway, this is the third of Patricia Briggs' Mercy Thompson series. Just as the first book was an introduction to the wolves and the second book brought the Vamps to the fore, this one brings the third of the major preternatural \"races\", the Fae into sharp focus. Mercy is asked by her friends in the Fae community to use her special talents to help them track down a killer who is targeting the Fae. Unlike the vamps who will never go public and the wolves who are planning to go public with (but only with very careful PR) -- the Fae are already public. They were forced to reveal themselves as preternatural beings to the human population by their leaders the mysterious Grey Lords. But they've very carefully only revealed the harmless among the Fae. In truth, the Fae (and their Fae possessions) are just as dangerous as the vampires as we find out in a harrowing, awful way in this book. I won't go into much detail except to say that I read this in one sitting. The book is deceptive. It starts out as one thing and then the stakes kick up like crazy and becomes something completely different in the end. I will say that I am beyond happy that Briggs does not draw out the love triangle between Sam, Mercy and Adam for eleventy-twelve books like some authors who shall not be named. I hate it when a reader gets strung along for no good reason and by the 14th book you really don't care anymore you just wish all three would go away. But not so with this author. I love the manner in which Mercy made her realization of who she wanted. No stupid plot points, no big misunderstandings, no grand betrayals -- just grown people acting like grown ups. I also liked the insight into Ben's character. Talk about adding some depth to a character in an awesome way! Anyway, three books and counting in this series and not a false note yet. Highly recommend!! ...more", "Title": "Iron Kissed"},
