{"Comments": "Since I wrote it, I kind of think it deserves 5 stars. =) Aliens, hot aliens? DAEMON BLACK???? YES PLEASE! Loved this book, read it in 2012 but decided to come back and write a review for it. This is actually the book that made me start book blogging! This book was such a quick, fun read! I haven't read an alien book before, and I found these aliens to be so interesting. Katy was a great main character and I LOVED that she had a book blog. It was a little repetitive at times and the constant bickering between Katy and Daemon,<---M> although funny and filled with sexual tension</---M>, was almost too much sometimes. However, I'm invested in this story now I will be picking up the next book sometime in the future! Not long ago, someone I know got into a really bad relationship. It was the kind of relationship where the guy was a pretty-faced douchebag who would tell her he loved her one minute and the next he would be making snide remarks about her weight and about her career, or standing her up when they were supposed to be going somewhere. But the worst part of this relationship wasn't him, it was my friend. Everyone she knew, including me, warned her away from him, told her he was bad and that she dese Not long ago, someone I know got into a really bad relationship. It was the kind of relationship where the guy was a pretty-faced douchebag who would tell her he loved her one minute and the next he would be making snide remarks about her weight and about her career, or standing her up when they were supposed to be going somewhere. But the worst part of this relationship wasn't him, it was my friend. Everyone she knew, including me, warned her away from him, told her he was bad and that she deserved better...<---F> you know, the usual</---F>. And she knew exactly who he was, knew that he was playing constant mind games. But she honestly believed that what she put up with was a worthy sacrifice for love . And she honestly believed she could change him. She would say \"he's just an immature guy\" as we sat with her while she cried because he'd made her feel like shit again. We subtly tried to remind her that there was such a thing as self respect and she was rapidly losing grip on it. I sat there and wondered how someone so pretty, smart and full of fiery personality could truly believe this was something normal that she had to accept and get through. But it's when I read books like <+++>Obsidian</+++> that I receive a painful reminder that this kind of psychology is not only way too frequent, but also constantly reinforced by books selling such relationships as romantic and passionate. Do I need to point out the obvious example? Some people said this book was another Twilight - complete with sappy heroine, paranormal love interest and a shit ton of angst. Honestly, they insulted Twilight with that one. Give me that creepy creeper called Edward Cullen any day over this rude, arrogant piece of work . I'm pretty sure Edward was actually kinda nice to Bella in his weird archaic \"I won't shag you before marriage but I will sneak into your room and watch you sleep because that is totally acceptable and normal\" way. Daemon, on the other hand, is an arrogant and downright RUDE dickwad. I'm not even going to pretend to understand the attraction because I don't see it. 'kay, he's beautiful, whatever. He also talks to the MC like she's crap he just stepped in, whilst interspersing the abuse with heated kisses and whatnot. There is nothing, NOTHING attractive to me about making out with a guy who insults me and acts like I'm worth less than nothing. I don't get it. The heroine - Katy - isn't terrible. She has high points where she pulls out some well-placed snark AND she's a book blogger - woohoo! But she has plenty of eye roll-worthy Mary Sue moments where she frets about her obvious beauty. In the first chapter (<---B>I think</---B>) she describes herself in a way that is supposed to imply she is somehow plain - with \"curvy hips, puffy lips and huge eyes\". So... she has big eyes, full lips and curves. Yeah, we really feel your pain, Katy. I realise I just basically trashed a book that tops a lot of people's favourite lists - sorry. I am currently working my way through some popular YA that I always meant to read but never did, so that's how I crossed paths with this book after avoiding it for so long. But yeah, guess you figured out this one wasn't for me :) Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr | Youtube ...more \u201cI have a strange idea that I should test this out.\u201d \u201cTest what?\u201d My eyes dropped to his lips. I felt myself sway. \u201cI think you would like to know.\u201d He moved closer, his hand sliding up my arm and resting carefully at the nape of my neck. Well, now I know why this series is so popular :) It took me one scene, meeting Daemon, to completely fall in love with him/the book. And it just got better and better! I literally couldn't stop reading and ended up finishing it in the same day I started. Well tha \u201cI have a strange idea that I should test this out.\u201d \u201cTest what?\u201d My eyes dropped to his lips. I felt myself sway. \u201cI think you would like to know.\u201d He moved closer, his hand sliding up my arm and resting carefully at the nape of my neck. Well, now I know why this series is so popular :) It took me one scene, meeting Daemon, to completely fall in love with him/the book. And it just got better and better! I literally couldn't stop reading and ended up finishing it in the same day I started. Well that says a lot :)) -Here's something you need to know about the STORY- Katy and her mom move to Vest Virginia after her father's death, and she meets her gorgeous, irritatingly rude neighbor Daemon. The tension between them is incredible, but with Daemon acting like a jerk, they end up fighting most of the time, and the other times are just swoony as hell!!!! Since Daemon behaves terribly toward Katy, and his sister Dee forces him to be nicer to her, which leads to some very very nice scenes like car-washing, swimming in the lake, the swing scene (*sigh*), the kitchen scene and well basically every scene where Daemon and Katy are together (and there are a LOT of those) One night Daemon saves Katy from a terrible accident and she realises he's not what he seems, he is in fact - an alien! The laptop scene... No comment to that, you just have to read it ;) The ending was awesome, action packed, but also emotional and sweet. And funny. Well it was everything!!! -The romance- *sigh* Well, first thing you need to know is that with Daemon, hearing something romantic come out of his mouth is practically impossible, even though he had his wonderful moments which I treasured because they were rare :D But it was all still there, even though he behaves like a jerk to her, he's still protective, and man, that made some amazingly swoony scenes in here <3 And even though I've said it before, every scene with those two was amazing, it was full of tension and butterflies <3 Can't wait to see how their relationship moves forward with each book :) -Daemon- He's the overprotective brother, trying to prevent Dee (the sister) from forming a friendship with Katy, the new neighbor. He's kind of hot and cold toward her, one moment flirting, the next insulting, probably because he's intrigued by her, but at the same time, he knows what humans can do to him and his family :( As he reveals himself to Katy, he knows he has to keep her safe from his enemies, and they have to spend a lot of time together (ehehehehe). Well, for me, Daemon was insta-love. I loved every scene with him, when he was a jerk, when he was swoony and protective, and yeah, even him being so incredibly full of himself :DDD My favorite scene with him was when they were at the lake and she hugged him <3 I don't know why, but he just seemed so vulnerable there, maybe because he's so tough throughout the book, I don't know. Anyway, love love love him!!! -Katy- She's a book review blogger, pretty much an ordinary girl, whose life changes completely once her dad dies and she moves to West Virginia with her mom. She becomes friends with her neighbor Dee, but frenemies with Dee's brother Daemon, who tries to push her away from his family, but at the same time flirts like hell with her :D As time goes by, it gets tough for her to fight the attraction, especially because Daemon feels it too, and on top of all that, he has too look after Katy in case his enemies target her. For a heroine, she's pretty great :) She gives as good as she gets, and it was so fun to watch the bickering and fighting all the time :) She is brave, and I have to say, I am very very happy with how she deals with the enemies! It surprised me, and I guess that's why I love that fact even more :) The end fight was awesome even though I can't say I understand everything that happened, but I think I'm not supposed to (aka it will probably be explained in the next book). -Overall feelings about the book- The pic says it all :DD I devoured this book! I loved every single scene between the MCs, and the good thing is, the book is full of those!!! Honestly, I just can't think of anything that bothered me here or that I didn't like. Anything! Maybe this is just the new fangirl me talking, but I don't know, this book definitely deserves 5 stars from me, and it's going into my bestest of the best shelf :)))) PS: V... I love you woman! I would've never picked this up if it weren't for you. Yes you told me so, but I just have to say THANK YOU!!! <3 PPS: This should be made into a movie. ...more All my ratings have been pretty high lately, mostly because I choose very carefully what to read next. I value my time too much to purposely read books I know I won\u2019t like. So what on earth possessed me to pick up this book after the Half-Blood debacle, I have no idea. Most of my friends loved <+++>Obsidian</+++> and I respect that, I really do. I can even see why, the ingredients are all there: a gorgeous, mean guy and a plain, book-nerdish girl, a love-hate relationship between our protagonists, hero\u2019s p All my ratings have been pretty high lately, mostly because I choose very carefully what to read next. I value my time too much to purposely read books I know I won\u2019t like. So what on earth possessed me to pick up this book after the Half-Blood debacle, I have no idea. Most of my friends loved Obsidian and I respect that, I really do. I can even see why, the ingredients are all there: a gorgeous, mean guy and a plain, book-nerdish girl, a love-hate relationship between our protagonists, hero\u2019s perky sister that becomes the heroine\u2019s best friend, the evil ex-girlfriend that spits fire every time our heroine gets close, two clueless friends and a mostly absent single parent\u2026 need I go on? However, even when you figure all this out, Armentrout finds a way to sneak up on you. Every now and then I\u2019d lose myself in a funny piece of dialogue or an especially steamy scene, but it wouldn\u2019t take long for me to remember what I was really reading and why it was making me so mad. But let\u2019s start at the beginning. Three years after the death of her father, Katy\u2019s mother decides that it\u2019s time to move on and that, in order to do that, they need to sell everything they own and move from sunny Florida to a town of about 500 inhabitants in the middle of nowhere, West Virginia. On her first day in the new house, Katy meets her next door neighbors, twins Dee and Daemon. While she and Dee instantly hit it off, Daemon acts like a total jerk and makes some cryptic comments about \u2018Katy\u2019s kind\u2019. He is, of course, absolutely gorgeous ( Ohmigod, he\u2019s so gorgeous, how could he possibly be attracted to plain ol\u2019 me? I must be imagining things. ), and very mysterious. As the time passes, Kat starts noticing that something is not quite right with the way Daemon, Dee and their friends are behaving, and then he saves her from an attacker and well\u2026 you know the rest. Apparently, aliens are the new vampires. No, seriously. Daemon is Edward 2.0 \u2013 a moodier, meaner and prettier version of our dear Mr. Cullen. To be honest, this entire book is just another Twilight rip-off. Not flat-out stolen like Half-Blood, but not that far, either. That alone wouldn\u2019t really upset me much since it's not the first and it certainly won't be the last, but what I found unforgivable was that Armentrout felt the need to make fun of Twilight while writing the exact same story . And when he spoke, it wasn\u2019t out loud. It was in my head. This is what we look like. We are beings of light. Even in human form, we can bend light to our will. There was a pause. As you can see, I don\u2019t look like a giant insect. Or\u2026 sparkle. Even in my head I could hear the disgust on that last one. See? So rude. It\u2019s true that Daemon doesn\u2019t sparkle, but he IS made of light. Pot, meet kettle. Kettle, you should kick pot\u2019s ass. I\u2019m sure this book will have many fans, but I\u2019m afraid my short and turbulent relationship with Ms. Armentrout is now over. ...more Actual rating: 3.5 (I think? Geez, I don't know! I just know I liked it a lot, okay?) Wow. I did not expect to enjoy Obsidian as much as I did. For some reason, I've just been avoiding it, but it was always there in my Twitter and GoodReads feeds. Daemon was frickin' invading my life. Finally, after seeing everyone change their avatars to the Lux series' covers, I felt I had to check it out. Almost all of my friends have given this book anywhere from 3-5 stars, but most averaging around 4. So nat Actual rating: 3.5 (I think? Geez, I don't know! I just know I liked it a lot, okay?) Wow. I did not expect to enjoy Obsidian as much as I did. For some reason, I've just been avoiding it, but it was always there in my Twitter and GoodReads feeds. Daemon was frickin' invading my life. Finally, after seeing everyone change their avatars to the Lux series' covers, I felt I had to check it out. Almost all of my friends have given this book anywhere from 3-5 stars, but most averaging around 4. So naturally I had to read it to see what the big fuss was about. I was initially wary because I had heard Obsidian was Twilight all over again and we all know how I feel about Twilight and its reincarnations. But surprisingly, I really liked it! Weirdly enough, I could probably go on and on why I didn't like it, but I don't have that urge. I have an urge to hug this book closely because it made me laugh on more than one occasion. Also, Armentrout. I want to hug her too. Because despite Obsidian's headdesk-worthy clich\u00e9s, I cannot deny... it's an enchanting read. Either that, of I probably shouldn't be drinking while reading.... Ha! Yeah, right. Another reviewer said , \"It was as if the author felt obligated to fix Twilight catastrophe and tried make it right again\" and I completely agree with her. I'll even take it a step further and say it was like Armentrout woke up one day and said, \"I'm going to write a book using all the tropes and clich\u00e9s people usually hate and they're still gonna love the shit out of this book.\" You might be wondering, \"How can one possibly make Twilight better?!\" Well, let's take a look at Armentrout's plan for blogosphere domination: Step One: Create a likable and relatable main character. How do you make a female main character instantly relatable to most of the female blogging community? The answer is so simple I'm honestly kicking myself that I've never thought of it before. You make her one of them. There are so many books I've read where the protagonist is an avid reader. And now I usually find myself going, \"YAWN. She can read. Good for her.\" But not here in Obsidian. Because not only does Katy love to read, but she is a book blogger. Say what? This main character has a... hobby other than staring at her hot next-door neighbor? Nice. Not only that, but Katy is smart, funny, witty and gives Jerkface Daemon a run for his money. Step Two: Add a bad boy with two scoops of asshole. Ah, the bad boy. Almost every girl goes through the \"bad boy phase.\" It's like a black hole, totally unavoidable, unless you happen to be smarter than the rest of us, in which case, you rock. But there's just something about the thrill of fooling around with someone you know you have no business fooling around with. It can be the best and worst days of your life. That is... until you grow up and get married! XD Anyway, that's kinda what Daemon is for Katy in Obsidian. He is the irresistible, hot, bad boy who Katy can't deny she's attracted to. But the kicker is that even though Daemon treats her awfully (reasons are revealed in Shadows ), she's not one of those heroines that sits back and accepts that. It's one of the first times I've seen a YA heroine differentiate between love and lust. Here's a girl who is saying, \"Okay this guy pretty much sets my panties on fire and I would totally exercise him in my bedroom (and possibly in the kitchen by the buttered rolls), but I'm not gonna because he's a complete asshole and I'm better than that.\" How refreshing! And yeah, maybe Daemon is a nice guy underneath all his Jerk-titude, but that doesn't mean Katy has to bend over backwards and ignore his past behavior. Armentrout sets up Daemon's character for redemption because finally someone is saying, \"Enough with all the douchebags treating the heroine like shit and still ending up with her in the end just by apologizing.\" And that is why Obsidian ultimately won me over. At first I couldn't figure out how everyone could love a book when the love interest was a complete tool, but when Katy gave Daemon the one finger salute with a nice \"fuck you very much,\" I knew I was won over. Step Three: Choose a paranormal creature that isn't written to death. Vampires? Ugh. Werewolves? Old news. Fairies? Boooring! How about something we don't get to see a lot of in YA? Something that will grab your attention! (And I'm not talking about Daemon's... er... friendly nature.) Actually, now that I think of it. That image is pretty accurate. Maybe I'm not as well read as I thought I was with YA novels, but I don't see a lot of PNR\u00a0authors tackling aliens. And what a shame! There is so much untapped potential there. In Obsidian you have hundreds of aliens living in West Virginia amongst humans. They're in the schools, holding normal jobs and interacting with humans on a regular basis. So what happens if someone finds out their secret? Awesomeness happens. That's what. Step Four: Make overused YA clich\u00e9 and tropes interesting again. Girl moves to a new small town? Check. Heroine doesn't know she's beautiful? Check. Single parent home who has a convenient excuse to leave the heroine alone for long stretches? Check. Paranormal characters hit the genetics jackpot lottery? DOUBLE CHECK. Love interest is so hot he practically melts the heroine's panties off with a grin? Check. Boy save girl from near death experience, therefore revealing his paranormal abilities? Check. Boy tries to deny those abilities? Check. Girl is allergic to his bullshit? Check. I admit, some of these this did bother me, but in the end, it didn't matter too much, especially since there is no insta-love and Katy is frickin' awesome!\u00a0Hmm... This review turned into one huge lovefest for the MC, Katy. How odd. Step Five: Sit back and watch your magic work. Your work here is done. Pinky ring not required, but recommended. -------------------- Reaction right after finishing Obsidian: Gah! This is unexpected. I think my rating is more of a 3.5? 3.75? Got dammit! I don't even know. All I know is my emotions are confused. THEY ARE CONFUSED! This book is like Twilight. But I hate Twilight. Wait... does that mean I like Twilight?! NO. I refuse to believe that. Ahhhh! Katy, I love you. Daemon Edward , I want to shake you. There are so many things in Obsidian I despise. But I still liked this book. A lot. Review to come after I sort out these strange feelings. And now I'm off to buy Onyx from Amazon even though it's 3am. Armentrout, what have you done to me? Who am I becoming? Cat woman? (Between you and me, I look pretty damn hot in all leather.) (Okay, that made no sense and was really random.) Gahhhhh!!! ...more Alien. I fell in love with a freaking alien . Not one of those greeny three-eyed creatures but still he is extraterrestrial life. As if book boyfriends from this galaxy weren't enough. \u201cWelcome to West Virginia, the land of lost models.\u201d There was something off with this little Virginia town Katy was forced to move in. Strange things happened, people were supposed to light up like Christmas trees and there was gossip about Men in Black lurking in the streets. And things got even weirder when Ka Alien. I fell in love with a freaking alien . Not one of those greeny three-eyed creatures but still he is extraterrestrial life. As if book boyfriends from this galaxy weren't enough. \u201cWelcome to West Virginia, the land of lost models.\u201d There was something off with this little Virginia town Katy was forced to move in. Strange things happened, people were supposed to light up like Christmas trees and there was gossip about Men in Black lurking in the streets. And things got even weirder when Katy spent time with her extremely beautiful neighbors, Dee and Daemon. Dee wanted desperately to become friends with Katy, while her brother seemed to consider Katy a stone in his shoe, something unpleasant and annoying. The truth behind this hatred? The Black twins were aliens, hiding from some not so friendly aliens, and Katy found herself involved in a world of secrets, super powers, obsidian knifes and a battle between light and darkness. And a seriously bipolar Daemon. \u201cI was always able to lose myself in reading. Books were a necessary escape I always gladly jumped into headfirst.\u201d I LOVE Obsidian so, so much . Mystery and paranormal romance combined with sassy characters and humorous dialogues, a healthy dose of tension and agony and sexual frustration and fast paced writing made this book such an enjoyable read! It's my first <---A>Jennifer L. Armentrout</---A> book and I am pleasantly surprised, I can say for sure she gained a new fan! She managed to make aliens fascinating without following the cliches, and her heroes are easily relatable! Kat was an amazing heroine, stubborn and feisty and sarcastic and caring and funny, it's impossible not to love her! And Daemon? \u201cBeautiful face. Beautiful body. Horrible attitude. It was the holy trinity of hot boys.\u201d Totally swoonworthy . An arrogant, hot, overconfident, sex-on-a-stick asshole who gave you heart attacks and took your breath away at once. There were times I wanted to bang his pretty head in a wall and times I wanted him to bang kiss me hard against a wall. He was mostly a rude jerk, but his love towards his sister was touching and the moments he was vulnerable were enough to balance his assholiness. And the scenes between Daemon and Kat? Holy Hawt Chemisty, Batman! If you're looking for a good Young Adult novel from a very talented author, then Obsidian is the book for you. After you finish it, you will wish you were kidnapped by aliens (the hot ones who don't look like Chewbacca anyway). ...more 5 WHOLE INSANE STARS! One of the best books I have ever read and also the best series starter I know. I have read this series and I must say it gets better and better.But believe me it starts GREAT .The story is interesting and keeps you thrilled the whole time.The characters are smoky cool.I could relate so much to this book (beside the alien thing). Me while reading the book : \u201cYou look like you got more of a bath than the car. I never thought washing a car would be so hard, but after watching 5 WHOLE INSANE STARS! One of the best books I have ever read and also the best series starter I know. I have read this series and I must say it gets better and better.But believe me it starts GREAT .The story is interesting and keeps you thrilled the whole time.The characters are smoky cool.I could relate so much to this book (beside the alien thing). Me while reading the book : \u201cYou look like you got more of a bath than the car. I never thought washing a car would be so hard, but after watching you for the last fifteen minutes, I\u2019m convinced it should be an Olympic sport.\u201d \u201cIf she was mine, I'd cherish every inch of her. And I wanted to. Now\u201d \u201cI was always able to lose myself in reading. Books were a necessary escape I always gladly jumped into headfirst.\u201d \u201cKat, say something insulting. Come on.\u201d I highly recommand you to read this book and the whole series.It's one of the greatest I have ever read. Me after finishing the book : I HEARD RUMORS ABOUT THE MOVIE COMING OUT SOON!!! ...more Sweet. Baby. Jesus. Picked this book up at 1 AM and read it straight through until 6 AM. A funny, entertaining, and very addicting read. (I'm totally exhausted after staying up late to finish this, but I ain't even mad.) I loved the take on aliens, and the characters are so feisty and fun! It's one of those \"new girl moves to town and falls in with a group of non-humans lead by a gorgeous yet douchey guy\" kind of stories, but Katy is a really refreshing main character. She's snarky and can stand u Sweet. Baby. Jesus. Picked this book up at 1 AM and read it straight through until 6 AM. A funny, entertaining, and very addicting read. (I'm totally exhausted after staying up late to finish this, but I ain't even mad.) I loved the take on aliens, and the characters are so feisty and fun! It's one of those \"new girl moves to town and falls in with a group of non-humans lead by a gorgeous yet douchey guy\" kind of stories, but Katy is a really refreshing main character. She's snarky and can stand up for herself and despite her attraction to Daemon, she's not afraid to call him a dickhead when he's being one. Definitely a must read for lovers of YA paranormal romance! I will be picking up books 2 & 3 ASAP then impatiently waiting another month for book 4. More Katy and Daemon please and thank you! ...more I want to believe. I really do. Just following the news these days is enough to make one lose faith in humanity. I really want to believe that there is something out there, god, gods, whatever. Aliens. ANYTHING. I want to feel like there are other creatures out there in this vast universe of ours, with greater knowledge, greater intelligence, and maybe one day they'll grace us with their presence and bestow on us their superior intellect. I certainly hope those future aliens are more intelligent t I want to believe. I really do. Just following the news these days is enough to make one lose faith in humanity. I really want to believe that there is something out there, god, gods, whatever. Aliens. ANYTHING. I want to feel like there are other creatures out there in this vast universe of ours, with greater knowledge, greater intelligence, and maybe one day they'll grace us with their presence and bestow on us their superior intellect. I certainly hope those future aliens are more intelligent than the dumb-as-dirt creatures in Obsidian . Seriously, how stupid can you get? I've never been on the run, I've never had to hide, but if there's some things I've gleaned, it's how NOT to stick out like a sore freaking thumb. First, you find a HUGE goddamn city, like San Francisco, where nobody will even blink if you step out into the street in rainbow-colored pantyhose and an accompanying beard. You do not find a backwoods town where it's likely you're considered outsiders if your grandparents were born the next town over. Secondly, you BLEND IN. 2 pairs of triplets move into town within days of each other? That is not blending in. Supernatural beauty? Not blending in. Names like Daemon? NO. NOT BLENDING IN. Thirdly, you FIT IN. You make friends, you're friendly to people. You do not act like everyone is your enemy and warn off the friendly girl next door just because she wants to know where the closest store is. I just don't understand how this book got so many positive reviews. I get that this is fantasy/sci-fi YA fiction, but there's gotta be a limit to willing suspension of disbelief. For me, there's very little to like about this book. The heroine is all right, but I kind of rolled my eyes at the \"I'm a BOOK BLOGGER. I'M SO HIPSTER. I'M A ZOOEY DESCHANEL GEEK GIRL\" bit. That's how she seemed to me. She's a fair bit more intelligent than some of the YA fiction heroines I've read, but considering there exists Luce/Bella/etc...that's not saying much. The spaghetti scene was kick-ass, though. I found Daemon to be an enormous asshat for most of the novel. He's hot, sure, but that's it. He's such an unbelievable jerk, and I found Dee to be like the patient wife of an abusive husband, sniveling and simpering and constantly making excuses for her brother's rude, boorish, borderline abusive behavior. And Ms. Armentrout, enough with the 100000x random alien references/foreshadowing in the book already. It's called subtlety. ...more Don't mind me doing my happy dance... ****** This Valentines Day I fell in Love with Jennifer L. Armentrout. I had been hearing through the grapevine about JLA an one particular grape has been rather loud about her work. So with all the faith that Kay @ K-books knows what she is talking about I picked up Obsidian first chance I had to read one of \"my choice\" reads. And now I can officially jump on Ms. Armentrout's space ship and enthusiastically follow her anywhere... I am not usually a big sci Don't mind me doing my happy dance... ****** This Valentines Day I fell in Love with Jennifer L. Armentrout. I had been hearing through the grapevine about JLA an one particular grape has been rather loud about her work. So with all the faith that Kay @ K-books knows what she is talking about I picked up Obsidian first chance I had to read one of \"my choice\" reads. And now I can officially jump on Ms. Armentrout's space ship and enthusiastically follow her anywhere... I am not usually a big sci-fi reader but there are a few I can like, well I guess now there is one I LOVE and that is the Lux series. Which is actually quite refreshing! Some Authors try to capture true sarcastic personalities and wittiness in their characters but JLA masters it. There is a delicate line that must not crossed for you to truly appreciate the humor in it without turning you off to the character. You just fall for this highly passionate and combustable relationship between Kat and Daemon in Obsidian . You never know if the are going to kiss or kill each other and you can get lost into the journey with them. If you have not read this series yet you are seriously missing out! It's extraordinary! I also love the quirky personality in Kat and the way she stands up to the enigma that is our sexy arrogant devastatingly handsome Daemon. One of my favorite Kat quotes... \u201cBeautiful face. Beautiful body. Horrible attitude. It was the holy trinity of hot boys.\u201d And doesn't that just say it all! So yes I will be eagerly awaiting the Prequel due out February 21st & the second book Onyx May 15th 2012. As well as purchasing everything that this budding new author has out. And the other good news is that I have already stalked her website and google and gotten you all the links you will need to properly follow her along, in what I am sure with be a very long and extremely successful writing career. Offical Website of Jennifer L. Armentrout , blog , twitter , facebook , and goodreads . You didn't doubt my stalking skills didja? Recommended for teens & Adult YA lovers. This one gets my top rating above the five stars it was - BEAST! Book covers And of coarse as always I will leave you with what I dug up and the characters. This one is easy becuase the cover is fabulous and matches the characters perfectly. Although there was not nearly enough pictures of the the models for my liking but here is what I was able to find... To see this review in all it's glory got to my blog shareAread.com Updated July 2012 Too see my Pepe Pics, read about my Armentrout fan girl antics, and meeting her go to passionatebookdivas.com ...more Whilst I was aware of this novel before Stephanie read and reviewed it, it didn\u2019t strike me as something that I needed to read until that point. There are many unfavourable comparisons to Twilight floating around. This is not an invalid point. -6 inhuman teenagers who pretend to be siblings \u2013 1) the love interest (Edward/Daemon) 2) the delicate best friend of the protagonist (Alice/Dee) 3) The bitch sister who doesn\u2019t approve (Rosalie/Ash) 4+5) Background dudes who we don\u2019t see a lot of \u2013 one of Whilst I was aware of this novel before Stephanie read and reviewed it, it didn\u2019t strike me as something that I needed to read until that point. There are many unfavourable comparisons to Twilight floating around. This is not an invalid point. -6 inhuman teenagers who pretend to be siblings \u2013 1) the love interest (Edward/Daemon) 2) the delicate best friend of the protagonist (Alice/Dee) 3) The bitch sister who doesn\u2019t approve (Rosalie/Ash) 4+5) Background dudes who we don\u2019t see a lot of \u2013 one of which is partnered with Alice/Dee. -New girl MC goes to school and meets asshole who is only behaving that way to protect his family. -New girl is with sole parent who provides highly dubious supervision and new girl acts like the parent \u2013 cooking, cleaning, shopping etc. -Love interest is devastatingly, unbelievably, inhumanly hot. Blah, blah, blah \u2013 we all know the deal. And I knew this going in \u2013 but was willing to go with it anyway because, as Steph repeatedly told me, \u201cIt\u2019s like she wrote what Twilight SHOULD have been.\u201d To that I say: maybe, yes, kind of, no, a little \u2013 but mostly\u2026 I guess? So let\u2019s get this out of the way quickly: If you enjoyed Twilight but found the relationship dynamics, i.e. Bella Swan\u2019s permissiveness and stalkish tendencies to be aggravating, then this is your perfect novel. Go forth and multiply, my friend. You will be in heaven. And I can certainly see how this novel could be as addictive as many of my friends say it is. Katy and Daemon scenes, when he\u2019s not being a complete and utter dick, were exceptionally hot. But, to be clear, by scenes I mean \u201cscene\u201d (because there was only one of them \u2013 and he went right back to being a dick afterwards) and that wasn\u2019t enough for me. But I could have put that aside, technically, and given this book a higher rating if I hadn\u2019t found myself, for a not insignificant amount of time, bored with the story. Don\u2019t be fooled by the fact that I breezed through it in a few hours. I was trapped in bed all day with sickness. There were a couple of times where the slightest distraction, had one existed, would have fairly swept me off my feet and away from the narrative. Then I started imagining a drinking game for every time I could have come up with a better comeback than Katy. Not an alcoholic one, because I\u2019m sick, but with actual water in the hopes that I wouldn\u2019t dehydrate \u2013 which I didn\u2019t. Some of my favourites included: \u201cGlow-stick-for-a-dick\u201d, \u201cOver-grown Fairylight\u201d, \u201cSkinny, limp Twat-bedazzler\u201d and \u201cYou have all the charm of a facehugger and only the half the technique, you extraterritorial welfare-mooch!\u201d (this one, clearly, happened after a certain scene that readers will all know and understand my reaction to.) But, and it must be said, having such a strong reaction to the love lives of the characters was a huge indication that I was at least invested, and after reading hundreds and hundreds of books, the ability to still get invested can sometimes be something of a gift. Ultimately I did like Katy even if, as far as I was concerned, she was far too permissive of Daemon\u2019s behaviour. Sticking around and giving him a break when my personal sense of vengeance would have seen a different, more violent and less polite response. And I did, in true guilty-pleasure style, enjoy enough of the book to at least read the free chapters of its sequel, posted at the back. I decided that I will very likely read the next book, because it seemed much more my thing \u2013 and I think that interest in reading the subsequent novel is the highest praise I can give. Extra points* to whoever comes up with the best curses to throw at Daemon in the comments! *Points are completely meaningless, have no value, and result in nothing other than my esteem. This review can be found on my blog, Cuddlebuggery Book Blog . ...more \"If she was mine, I'd cherish every inch of her. And I wanted to. Now.\" HOLY ALIEN HOTNESS. After hearing nothing but positive things about this series, I thought it was about time I'd give it a try myself to find out what all the hype was about and WOW... I'm SO GLAD I finally started it!!! There was never a dull moment in this first part of the series and once I got into the story, I ended up devouring it! I'm pretty sure this will quickly become my new favorite YA series once I continue wit \"If she was mine, I'd cherish every inch of her. And I wanted to. Now.\" HOLY ALIEN HOTNESS. After hearing nothing but positive things about this series, I thought it was about time I'd give it a try myself to find out what all the hype was about and WOW... I'm SO GLAD I finally started it!!! There was never a dull moment in this first part of the series and once I got into the story, I ended up devouring it! I'm pretty sure this will quickly become my new favorite YA series once I continue with the rest of it!!! Although it's considered to be YA, I felt it had a much more mature feeling to it. I loved the characters, the original storyline and the engaging writing style and well, <---C>Daemon Black</---C> is one hot alien you just HAVE to meet... THE STORY Starting over is never easy... After Katy's father passed away, her mother decides it's best for them to leave the house they used to live in and move some place new. They leave Florida and decide to start over in a small town in West Virginia. Moving into a new town and enrolling in a new school for her senior year, isn't easy... But what's worse is having a new neighbor who isn't very welcoming to her at all. \"I thought people in small towns were supposed to be nice, not act like the son of Satan.\" While struggling to find her place in this strangely populated town, Katy also has to find a way to cope her handsome but extremely arrogant neighbor Daemon Black . Although Katy quickly becomes friends with Daemon's sister Dee, Daemon keeps treating her like she doesn't belong is this town, which makes her feel like something is off about him... And then she discovers the neighbors next door are nothing she could have ever expected; they're aliens. KATY SWARTZ \"The day my internet was hooked up was better than having a hot guy check our my butt and ask for my phone number.\" I really loved Katy's personality. She's down to earth, funny, sarcastic and full of witty remarks. Plus, she's also a book nerd which made her all the more easy to relate with. I loved that the story was written in her point of view, because being inside her head was never boring. She's a strong character and I admired that she stood up for herself so well. Especially against someone like Daemon... DAEMON BLACK \"Beautiful face. Beautiful body. Horrible attitude. It was the holy trinity of hot boys.\" Yes, Daemon is HOT as hell BUT at the same time he's also infuriatingly annoying. At first I didn't know whether to love him or hate him... And neither did Katy! Daemon constantly switches his attitude from hot to cold and back again. Most of the time, he treats her like his number one enemy and he even tries to keep her away from his sister, in fear of them becoming to close. \"To Daemon, my arrival was the beginning of the end. The apocalypse. Kat-mageddon.\" Most of the time Katy and Daemon don't get along AT ALL. But since, Katy has become best friends with Daemon's twin sister Dee (who's character I absolutely loved btw!), they are forced to spent some time together. Whenever they do meet though, Daemon manages to infuriate the hell out of Katy. \"I'd always avoided confrontation in the past, but this guy was flipping my bitch switch like nothing else.\" I loved the playful banter between the two of them. It kept the story interesting and refreshing and it provided some hilarious and highly entertaining moments... \"You're such an ass. Has anyone ever told you that?\" He flashed a genuinly amused smile. \"Oh, Kitten, every single day of my blessed life.\" And even though they're constantly arguing, they also share a few intimate moments where Daemon shows the \"real\" him and he becomes a much nicer version of himself. Daemon tries to keep his distance from Katy, but because he's had to save her life a few times, she carries a glow of energy around her that the Arum, the Luxen's greatest enemy, can detect. Therefore, Daemon is \"forced\" to spend time with Katy and protect her from potential attacks until the effect from his alien mojo has faded away. Whenever they're around each other, there's a tension in the air and it's obvious they're attracted to each other... \"Holy Hawt Chemistry, Batman!\" And when they *finally* kiss, the chemistry is off the charts!!! The entire story is written in Katy's POV but at the end of the book we also get a few chapters from Daemon's POV and for that I am VERY grateful. They really show that despite his cockiness, he actually had a good reason for acting the way he did. So, Daemon, despite some of your more \"jerkish\" moves... Luckily, this first part of the series does not end with a cliffhanger, but the ending still makes me want to read the next part of the series very soon!!! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED to anyone who enjoys YA paranormal stories!!! ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ \"I won't hurt you, Kat.\" His tone was softer, but still laced with fury as he tried to control me without doing any real damage. \"I could never hurt you.\" 4.5 STARS. ...more \u201cSo the dickhead had a name. Daemon\u2014seemed fitting.\u201d What do you get when you combine a shy girl from Florida and a sexy, arrogant next door neighbor? You get OBSIDIAN! What do I think about this book? [image error] Okay! I think that shows just about how much I love this book! And how absolutely crazy I am of it but at first I didn\u2019t really feel that way towards it. INITIAL THOUGHTS A lot of my goodreads friends recommended this book to me but I was like \u201cOh no! Aliens?\u201d. Then I saw a lot of \u201cSo the dickhead had a name. Daemon\u2014seemed fitting.\u201d What do you get when you combine a shy girl from Florida and a sexy, arrogant next door neighbor? You get OBSIDIAN! What do I think about this book? [image error] Okay! I think that shows just about how much I love this book! And how absolutely crazy I am of it but at first I didn\u2019t really feel that way towards it. INITIAL THOUGHTS A lot of my goodreads friends recommended this book to me but I was like \u201cOh no! Aliens?\u201d. Then I saw a lot of good reviews about it so I decided to grab a copy but still haven\u2019t read it I wasn\u2019t interested. But then this June I just had the urge to open it up and read it. After just reading a few pages I was in love! It was like love at first sight! THE GIRL Katy! I love you girl! Well of course not as much as I love beeeepp Daemon but yeah she\u2019s a good and very amusing character. Why? First, she loves books and she blogs. You don\u2019t often get kickass characters who read and blog right? Also she was not like most of the other female lead characters in YA books nowadays who are so dependent on their guys that it almost makes me gag just by reading about it. I hate needy, reliant female characters and Katy was NOT one of them. And I seriously enjoyed reading about her because she doesn\u2019t take crap from ahhheeem Daemon who was also well a jerk most of the time. Plus this girl was not stupid. Yeah well she doesn\u2019t have super powers (and most of the time I think she honestly forget this. Hahaha ) but she thinks before she acts and she thinks about the welfare of other too like. She doesn\u2019t ogle. Even though Daemon was hot as hell she didn\u2019t. She had thoughts yes but she doesn\u2019t show it to Daemon well expect for the\u2026 Hahaha. I wouldn\u2019t want to say when because that would obviously ruin the surprise! THE GUY OHHH I could feel myself fangirling again!!!! Oh Daemon! Where were you when I fell in love with Ash! You bad boy! You\u2019re making me so unfaithful! Seriously, once you get a piece of Daemon you\u2019ll definitely ask for more. Daemon\u2019s character for me was so out of this world. Well technically he is really from out of this world. He was obnoxious, rude, arrogant and mean. But one thing is for sure though, DAEMON BLACK IS THE HOTTEST GUY I\u2019VE EVER READ! It infuriate me sometimes that he could be such an asshole when he\u2019s around Katy but when you read his short POV\u2019s at the end of the book you\u2019ll find out why he has to be that way. All I could really say is he\u2019s more than that. He is more than the arrogant jerk that he puts off in front of everybody. DAEMON + KATY = UNDENIABLE CHEMISTRY They are mean to each other most of the time and I find it really enjoyable to read. I like how Katy stands up for herself even when Daemon embarrass her she still stick to her guns and stand up tall. There was really something there whether they deny it or not. Whether Daemon tries to fight it off by being a douche, he won\u2019t be able to keep that for long. They\u2019re just so cute. MORE THOUGHTS The plot for me was well executed. I mean it wasn\u2019t fast paced as I would have wanted it to but everything seem to fall into place. There were no dull moments nor where there moments that you wouldn\u2019t understand what was going on. Ms. Armentrout made sure that the readers would devour every scene and every word and every action of the characters. And she was successful in doing that. I read her other book but I wasn\u2019t as into it as much as this book. This book was awesome! I couldn\u2019t even find the right words. [image error] This book gives new light to Aliens. Well I did like I am Number Four but I don\u2019t think it was as enjoyable to read as this one. And the writing was just so fluid for me. It was as if a teenage girl was really telling the story. It was just so authentic. TO RECOMMEND OR NOT TO RECOMMEND TO RECOMMEND DEFINITELY! I would have to say I enjoyed everything about this book start from the characters, the setting, the pace, the plot, the writing, the humor, everything. I couldn\u2019t find a miss from my part. It was all too perfect for me. I mean you all might not agree with me but yeah I think this book was just perfect. And also did I mention that I love Daemon?! :D A PERFECT 5! Or 10! Or 100! :D ...more First, a caveat: I did not enjoy this book. The following is my honest opinion, however I mean no disrespect to those of my friends who liked it. Just to be clear, I approached Obsidian optimistically, looking for something fun and entertaining to read. Because hot alien spells fun, am I right? Particularly on the heels of a couple of quite emotionally taxing books. Well, apparently I should have checked myself before I wrecked myself, and paid heed to those little warning bells in the synopsis: First, a caveat: I did not enjoy this book. The following is my honest opinion, however I mean no disrespect to those of my friends who liked it. Just to be clear, I approached Obsidian optimistically, looking for something fun and entertaining to read. Because hot alien spells fun, am I right? Particularly on the heels of a couple of quite emotionally taxing books. Well, apparently I should have checked myself before I wrecked myself, and paid heed to those little warning bells in the synopsis: \u201cArrogant.\u201d \u201cStab-worthy.\u201d Attaching these descriptors to the love interest should have tipped me off that at least part of this story really wasn\u2019t going to gel with me. Overall though, I am more disappointed than anything, because I feel that there was a lot going for this premise. It makes me sad to see such potential and a fun idea be eclipsed by a banal romance that draws so heavily on YA paranormal tropes and clich\u00e9s. There was promise in Katy. Despite her familiar casting as the new girl in town who has no idea that she\u2019s pretty \u2013 Katy has personality, interests, a good relationship with her mother and is generally down to earth. She wasn\u2019t a vapid, self-insert type of character, which was a positive sign. Sure, the \u201cbookish\u201d type heroine feels a little tired these days, but Katy seemed like a strong enough character to carry this story. Enter the hot alien mysterious boy next door. From this point on, while there were flashes of the book I thought this would be, it started to take a disappointingly familiar path. I felt my enjoyment steadily decline, to the point where I was frankly just angry and frustrated. Having the protagonist state upfront that the love interest is a \u201cdouche\u201d does not give said love interest carte blanche to go around committing Random Acts of Assholery in the name of Broody Hotness. The fact that the protagonist acknowledges the bad behaviour does not suddenly make it acceptable. Beating readers to the punch of calling out the love interest as a jerk does not award him a \u201cBe A Jerk For Free\u201d card. Honestly, it makes me just plain cranky even after Katy recognises that Daemon is a douche, we are supposed to simply swallow this and understand her poor choices because he\u2019s so allegedly \u201cintriguing\u201d and has a smokin\u2019 bod. Demeaning, obnoxious behaviour is still demeaning and obnoxious any way you slice it. No matter how rock hard his abs, how finely chiselled his jaw, how piercing his eyes, I don\u2019t find it hot. Acknowledgment and justification are not the same thing. In short, and to channel Cher Horowitz of Clueless: \u201cSo okay, I don't want to be a traitor to my generation and all but I don't get YA love interests today. I mean, come on, they just turn up to the door shirtless and throw around some insults and make suggestive comments - ew - and then ignore you completely and like, we're expected to swoon? I don't think so .\u201d Unfortunately, I suspect that there is an Edward Cullen style \u201cI\u2019m horrible to you because I secretly love you and I can\u2019t admit it\u201d dynamic at play here. I can\u2019t help but speculate that beneath Daemon\u2019s outward displays of arrogance and kick-to-the-crotch-worthy insults, Armentrout is going to slowly reveal a tender heart that beats with genuine love for Katy. Please. While there are some scenes that are quite funny and/or tense, and the make-out moments are well-written, I have to say that I feel the whole thing is let down by a rather formulaic plot. A few sharply rendered, interesting characters are counter balanced with some that feel like caricatures. The pacing, particularly of the climax, is gripping and fast \u2013 yet the events themselves feel all too familiar. Given the fact that a book I wanted to find entertaining yet left me feeling wound up and annoyed, I think it\u2019s safe to say that it wasn\u2019t for me. So if anyone can rec me a good alien book, please do. I\u2019m all ears ...more Well, looks like I'm a black sheep for this one guys. I did not go into this book expecting wonderful prose or a particularly moving story. I went into this book expecting pure fun, guilty-pleasure like entertainment and a hot alien. All I got was a hot alien. (Maybe I could put that on a t-shirt, \"I read this book and all I got was this hot alien tshirt\" and then just slap a picture of Daemon Black's face/abs on the back) Obsidian was a novel I avoided for a very long time as it sounded like somet Well, looks like I'm a black sheep for this one guys. I did not go into this book expecting wonderful prose or a particularly moving story. I went into this book expecting pure fun, guilty-pleasure like entertainment and a hot alien. All I got was a hot alien. (Maybe I could put that on a t-shirt, \"I read this book and all I got was this hot alien tshirt\" and then just slap a picture of Daemon Black's face/abs on the back) Obsidian was a novel I avoided for a very long time as it sounded like something I would despise. I finally bit the bullet and read it and while I didn't hate it, I certainly didn't enjoy it. I'm not going to sit here and draw all the parallels to Twilight because I'm pretty sure every man and their dog has come to that conclusion. The parallels to Twilight isn't even my main problem with this book, in fact I found it to be better written and marginally more entertaining than Twilight. My main problem with this book is that it was boring . I found myself putting this down and not really having the desire to pick it back up because I just didn't care. The plot was so damn predictable and I didn't feel any sense of urgency or excitement in it at all. I went into this thinking this would at least be entertaining and fun to read even if it wasn't a work of art, but I didn't even feel a little entertained by the story for the most part. Sure, there are parts where it's exciting and there's a few hot scenes between Daemon and Katy because they do have some pretty great chemistry, but those weren't enough for me to love this book. I actually really liked Katy, despite finding her a bit annoying at times. Not only is she a book blogger in which I found myself reminiscing about how book blogging used to be a few years ago, and I found her much more relatable in that she would come home after a bad day, see a parcel of books waiting for her and she would get super excited. But she was also snarky, aggressive and different to a lot of other YA heroines. As for Daemon, the alien who is super hot and infuriating etc, I found him hotter toward the end of the story, but for the most part I just didn't give a shit about him at all. The other characters were all cardboard cutouts and essentially added nothing to the story. The writing was okay and I did find this super easy to read in the parts I wasn't bored out of my mind. Even the antagonists were hilariously bad. Like, there's this one scene where THEY'RE ACTUALLY MAKING HISSING SOUNDS WHEN THEY SPEAK AND I COULDN'T CONTAIN MY LAUGHTER. It was so absurd, it was hilarious. The antagonists are supposed to be this huge threat and everything but oh my god, they had no substance whatsoever which just ended up making them seem more like caricatures than anything else. Overall, this was super underwhelming and I'm pretty sure I gave myself an eye strain from rolling them so much. I might read the next book in the series to see if it improves, but I'm not getting my hopes up. ...more \u275dIf she was mine, I'd cherish every inch of her. And I wanted to. Now.\u275e Rating: \u2605\u2605 I don't think I'll ever get to love Paranormal Romance in any way. It's just something that doesn't get my attention or has me hooked up in any way. I kind of find that kind of romance weird to start off with. It's not something I enjoy reading about simply because it is a human catching feelings for some creature\u2014faes, vampires, werewolves, aliens, zombies, ghosts, and other paranormals that I can't think of. Afte \u275dIf she was mine, I'd cherish every inch of her. And I wanted to. Now.\u275e Rating: \u2605\u2605\u00bd I don't think I'll ever get to love Paranormal Romance in any way. It's just something that doesn't get my attention or has me hooked up in any way. I kind of find that kind of romance weird to start off with. It's not something I enjoy reading about simply because it is a human catching feelings for some creature\u2014faes, vampires, werewolves, aliens, zombies, ghosts, and other paranormals that I can't think of. After reading mixed reviews about this one, I honestly did want to try and out and see what all the excitement and love is about or what all the annoyance and arrogance is about. I don't blame the people that disliked this book. Either disliked or hated it actually. And I also don't blame the people that enjoyed reading it for some reasons. I only got this novel because I wanted to see how Jennifer's writing is at first and how it might improve. Knowing her recent novel, The Problem With Forever recently came out this year, I wanted to get a hint of her writing style and see how it is. I I normally do that just because I don't want to move directly to their recently published one. Obsidian was an okay story for me. There were some bonus' but for the rest, I didn't really care about it. The characters were rude, the plot came to make sense towards the end, the romance didn't feel right at first and still doesn't, and everything else slowly came to a fast end leaving me worried about thinking if I should order the other books. _________________________________ Starting off with the story, we see that Katy and her mom have recently moved to West Virginia from Florida. Katy's dad had just passed away so her mom wants to start a new and fresh life with Katy and not be remembered about the past. Katy isn't really worried about much actually. She knews she's gonna be the new girl at school; she knows it'll take some time to make friends and be welcomed; she knows this might just be her hardest year since it is senior year; and she knows nothing is gonna be a more pain in the ass than her rude next-door neighbor, Daemon Black. Although Katy wasn't welcomed with a nice welcome when she went knocking on the Black's door, she didn't get a warm welcome anywhere else. She knew there was a reason to it, but she didn't understand it and wasn't able to figure it out. Even though Katy quickly forms a friendship with Dee, Daemon's younger twin sister, Daemon still treats her bad and insults her, telling her she should leave this town and not come back. Daemon knew her friendship with Dee might just be a problem, he just doesn't want to tell Katy. But after being suspicious for a while, Katy finds out what crazy world she'll be living in for the rest of her life: her neighbors are aliens. _________________________________ Katy was someone I loved since the beginning. She was positive to herself and always tried finding a way to make her mom happy and make sure nothing from the past would ruin anything. She was smart, funny, and was one of those girls I admire that don't take insults seriously and are able to back themselves up quickly. She wasn't sassy and rude, but she was rather nice and enjoyable. She was able to stand up for herself against everyone and especially Daemon. She was a book blogger and admired books very much so that was something else I loved about her. I'm no book blogger, but she has a love for books like many of us have here. The story being told in her point of view was nothing I would want changed and nothing disappointed me. Everything seemed right in her point and reading it from her perspective and seeing how well she handled things was something I was able to enjoy. Daemon was not my kind of dark bad book boyfriend. It took me a while to get into his character and see the real him, even though I didn't like any of them. At first, Daemon is rude, arrogant, and only spends time with Katy because he is forced to! He probably didn't enjoy it but he did it just for his car keys. I mean, I was glad he was finally gonna hang out with Katy and maybe be nice to her for once, but after that, he was back to the Jerk Daemon Katy knew so well. He was hot, fit, and had those perfect beautiful emerald green eyes but even with that, Daemon didn't impress me in any way. His attitude and personality would go from cold to hot and I would question myself if he was bipolar? Other than saying negative things about him, I will admit, he did turn into a respectful and nice guy when it came to Katy. He would still call her Kitten, but he wouldn't tell her that she needs to leave this town or that she isn't wanted here. If he did, he would feel bad about it and want to punch himself in the face; he would want to run down to Katy and apologize for the shitty thing he just did; he would want to go to back to the lake or Senaca Rocks with Katy and see what other adventure they would have together. Or, I guess that's how I saw it according to Daemon's point of views in the end. The romance didn't feel right until after. Daemon and Katy had to put up with each other and none of them liked it; none of them liked each other. Since Katy is good friends with Dee, Daemon has to show \"some interest\" in Katy because keeping them apart didn't work, so he would just tell him himself. But even with their horrible relationship together trying to grow and work out, Daemon later shows the real himself and Katy finds out he can be rather nice which was a surprise. He had saved her 3 2 times and after treating Katy like his #1 enemy, he instead finds himself having fun around her and feeling normal. He finds out he doesn't have to show his mask or hide it after she finds out the truth, letting him relax a little and see where all of this can really be taken. I will admit, I was glad they didn't get along quickly because if they did, we wouldn't be able to see Katy's other side of handling him so well and not really caring about what he has to say to her and about her. It kept everything interesting and a little captivating. After finding out the truth, I guess I had to approve of Daemon and why he acted like an ass at first. Even though this novel didn't end with a cliffhanger, I kind of still want to read the rest and see where this all goes. I was to see how Katy and Daemon's relationship works and how it really is accepted. In Obsidian, we see that Daemon is only attached to Katy and likes her because he is forced to. The reason for the attachment is because when Daemon saved Katy, he left a trace on her. That trace is what leads the Arum, the Luxen's greatest enemy, to her and the people around her. Because of that, Daemon has to be around her and that is why he didn't want her to grow a big friendship with his sister. And after hanging out with Katy quite some time, Daemon is able to see how fun it can be and how nice he can be around her as well. Daemon is in love with Katy, he just doesn't show it. He feels it and regrets some moments, but he is also afraid to show it because of what happened with his brother, Dawson, and his girlfriend, Bethany, who was a human. Although I know their relationship will work in the end, I'm curious as to how it works, and that is why I want to read the rest of the series. Overall, Obsidian had it's disappointments and its small plot twist but even with that, I think I'm gonna keep reading the series and see if it improves. Hopefully Daemon's character development grows and changes into the kind of guys I fall hard for. Hopefully he realizes what an asshole and jerk he is and how keeping a fair amount of distance is actually easy without hurting the person or treating them in some bad way. Katy was insecure, but when it came to showing Daemon she can be the strong girl she wants to be known as, she shoved Alien ass down and showed herself worthy of many things. Hopefully her character stays the same or grows as well. I'm just hoping nothing really changes from her. She was a character I absolutely loved since the beginning and hopefully continue to. Being honest, if you're a fan of rude jerks that suddenly turn into evil angels but are swoon-worthy hot males with some paranormal romance in it and a world where its not really like the one we live in, then this is the story you're looking for. If you're a fan of guys that can be douchebags at times but make up for it and enjoy a cute romance story where everything flows well and together, this isn't your story. I was actually excited for the romance, I admit it, but I was left disappointed with regret. Their relationship didn't fit well until I truly saw that Daemon really cares about Katy but before that, he was still rude. (view spoiler) [When they kissed, because she was glowing and having sex or a hot and long make-out session uses energy, he used her and pretended he was enjoying it. Okay maybe he was. But after that, he literally picked up his shirt and left. Oh! And left her topless in her own fucking couch! I was mad at that because the day after, he didn't even mention it or seem to bring up the subject. He didn't apologize until she brought it up. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Oh WOW! That's all I've got. Well that and you MUST read this. It took me a while to read this book I was a bit busy with personal issues at the time!!! AND HAD SO MUCH WORK LOAD IN JAN USUALLY TAKES ME 4 Hours to complete e-book! According to me a Prologue or the 1st Chapter of a book is THE reflection - SO it must capture my attention from page 1 I will continue a few more chapters to give the Book a fair chance to change my mind! My review! Relationship development in this book and characters according to my like and dislikes If you're looking for a stro It took me a while to read this book I was a bit busy with personal issues at the time!!! AND HAD SO MUCH WORK LOAD IN JAN USUALLY TAKES ME 4 Hours to complete e-book! According to me a Prologue or the 1st Chapter of a book is THE reflection - SO it must capture my attention from page 1 I will continue a few more chapters to give the Book a fair chance to change my mind! My review! Relationship development in this book and characters according to my like and dislikes If you're looking for a strong female main character, this will be a book I will recommend and if you like PNR Seriously. Katy is just awesome. Even though Daemon insists that humans are weak, she manages to prove to him wrong time and again on so many levels. She's witty. She's strong. And she's stubborn, and one hell of a character as she do not even listen to anything Daemon tells her to do\u2013 what a girl \u2013 LOVE HER!!!! If people want to read my bad ass Katy - and why I love her read this book I LOVE KAT! Katy is a book blogger who has to relocate from sunny Florida to woodsy West, I liked her from the 1st page. She didn't allow Daemon to run all over her and scare her away from his sister or the town. There is this one awesome incident involving spaghetti, and I was like, \"YES!\" I seriously wished at that moment I could go into the book and high-five Katy! This is probably the first time I've read a book where the main character is a book blogger, and I thought it was a unique and fun thing to include. Her peculiar mother works all the time since the passing of Katy's dad. So Katy has a lot of free time on her hands, and her mom wants her to make new friends. So Katy sets off to meet her neighbor's and possibly make new friends before school start Then we meet Daemon, he opens the door and what spurts out of that mouth (READ TO ENJOY) of his make you realize this is going to be one hell of an interesting relationship, Katy just wants to slap him even if Daemon is the most gorgeous guy Katy has seen in her life, and she can compare him to many of her book BB but alas he remains an ass (BUT I LOVED - LOVED ME SOME DAEMON). Now, I can tell you I fall pretty hard for fictional boy...even the quiet, broken ones that are hard to crack...! BUT Daemon left me incredibly annoyed with him at points, BUT ALAS Daemon is not your usual next door boy, he has tons of secrets. He was a interesting hard headed character when Katy first met him. He's TRUST NOBODY and humans the least and he is willing to do whatever he can to protect his sister and himself the only family he has left. Daemon sister wants to be friends with Katy very badly, BUT Daemon disapproves of this friendship, well there is a few secret reasons for this, one he really do not trust humans. It didn't excuse the way he acted, but I felt like I understood his reasons not to be so nice sometimes. As the book progresses, it seemed Daemon just enjoyed getting under Katy's skin. He definitely had his moments and of course, and that's why I couldn't help but to like him (UGH NOT KIDDING YOU LOVED HIM)! I loved Katy's friends, Dee, Lesa, and Carissa. They were funny, honest, and loyal, which are the qualities I expect from friends, EVEN MY FRIENDS! We learn about the Arum who is intriguing \"bad guys\". This for the Arum \u2013 such blood sucking sick thingies or something \u2013 they are demons, so how good can they be hmmmm? Recommend to the following type of readers: \u2192 Not sure :D but it is a NA Why my rating?\u2192 Don\u2019t be foolish read the book!!!! Will I read it again?\u2192 OH YES My feelings while reading this: \u2192 To the Author I'm telling you Obsidian is one just one big roller coaster ride, the immediate, intense and sizzling chemistry between the main character Katy and her next door neighbour Daemon will instantly captivate readers and pull them into this world of rivals, danger and forbidden attraction, that won't let go. Obsidian was highly addictive and filled with all kinds of funny, surprising, HOT, Jennifer L. Armentrout really knows how to make it easy to get into a story! ...more I had so much fun reading this, i just posted my full review/booktalk: http://youtu.be/K_gXWm8LhIU =) Ok, I have to gather my thoughts now, because this book has blown my mind! I absolutely loved it! This is my first book by Jennifer, but it definitely won't be my last. I will now stalk all of her work - beware! There is no wonder she has been getting rave reviews so far. Obsidian gets us acquainted with Katy, who has just moved to a boring small town in West Virginia, and with not-so-boring Daemon who is the most arrogant human being she has ever met. And, lucky her (seriously! lucky her!), he l Ok, I have to gather my thoughts now, because this book has blown my mind! I absolutely loved it! This is my first book by Jennifer, but it definitely won't be my last. I will now stalk all of her work - beware! There is no wonder she has been getting rave reviews so far. Obsidian gets us acquainted with Katy, who has just moved to a boring small town in West Virginia, and with not-so-boring Daemon who is the most arrogant human being she has ever met. And, lucky her (seriously! lucky her!), he lives right next door. But at least his sister is great. When Katy finds out they're all aliens, though, her life kind of gets weird... a little. I instantly clicked with Katy- and not just because she is a book blogger even though that was awesome -, I found her to be a lot like me. Her reactions, her emotions, her attitude were all very realistic and I could completely relate to her. I particularly appreciated her reaction to finding out Daemon was an alien. First of all she actually HAD a reaction! Secondly, she questioned it. Much better than the \"Oh so you're a (insert paranormal being here)? That's neat! So\u2026*awkward silence* wanna make out?\" reactions I've too often encountered. I loved her friendship with Dee. I think Dee is a great person and she's absolutely a lot of fun. I was also very happy with Katy's mom. She was down to earth, funny and caring. Daemon, yes, you need your own paragraph. Daemon is very likely going to end up on the top of everyone's \"most sexiest male character\" list. He is definitely on mine! He is irritating, infuriating and downright bullheaded, but holy damn is he ever hot! Daemon is incredibly protective of his sister and others of his race, but even when he was being\u2026 difficult, it wasn't without reason. He did love to push Katy's buttons and I mostly found it hilarious (though if I was her I would have punched him in the face). What came out of his mouth actually made me gape with disbelief a few times. Despite his loveable personality, he is an incredible character who fit extremely well with the story, even more-so with Katy, and gave it a very attractive vibe. Together, Daemon and Katy were fantastic. There was enough chemistry between them to give Marie Curie a run for her money! Their relationship was very love/hate. You never knew what Daemon's intentions were from one page to the next and it drove me crazy as much as it did Katy. However, you still couldn't help but adore him to pieces. Now for the plot, I found it was very exciting and well thought out. I really enjoyed Jennifer's take on the aliens in Obsidian: how they got there, their powers, the villains. It reminded me a bit of Smallville but it was still original and incredibly exciting. The book definitely does not lack in action and the climactic ending was completely fulfilling. I really have no negative aspect to mention in regards to this book. It was everything I was hoping for and more than I was expecting. No doubt that Jennifer is the up and coming author to watch out for! ...more WOW just WOW~! O_O bye! i need to go read it again! Full review at chocolatecoatedreviews.blogspot.com Okay so I waited for this book forever! I finally got it and read it non stop! It was amazing. I loved everything about it. The story line, plot, the idea of aliens, the characters, the romance and all the hilarious conversations between Daemon and Katy! LOL ;) It was kind of sad about the whole situation with Dawson (Daemon's brother). I can't wait to find out his story. I just wish he comes back with Bethany somehow. My fave part about the book was the first conversation Daemon and Katy have. I Okay so I waited for this book forever! I finally got it and read it non stop! It was amazing. I loved everything about it. The story line, plot, the idea of aliens, the characters, the romance and all the hilarious conversations between Daemon and Katy! LOL ;) It was kind of sad about the whole situation with Dawson (Daemon's brother). I can't wait to find out his story. I just wish he comes back with Bethany somehow. My fave part about the book was the first conversation Daemon and Katy have. It was soooooo funny, I had tears in my eyes cause I was laughing so hard! ;p Katy is your average teenage girl. I love the fact the she doesn't get intimidated and has a mind of her own. She believes in what is right and follows her instincts and her heart (Daemon...LOL)! She was incredible in this story, no matter how many times Daemon pushed her away, she only tries harder to be in his and his sister's life! It was inspiring. Then we have Daemon.mmmmmmm! Well, the first thing that comes to my mind is YUMMMM and then he is sooo funny! Although, he puts up a \"douchebag\" face he actually cares for Katy...even if it's in his own weird way. I love him. Really, that's all I can say. I think I am addicted to his funny comments. It was funny, cause when I was reading I always was anticipating when he would say something hilarious and I would laugh my ass off! LMAO;) It was a really great, amazing, fantastic book! I can't wait to read Onyx next and see where Katy and Daemon's relationship goes. I just wish the waiting time was much less. If I had it my way...I'd get that damn book in this second!!! LOL ;) I recommend this book to everybody! It was crazy but sweet. A great way to pass your time! ;) ...more Long story short, hate Daemon, love Katy. That's pretty much it. --Well, this is not a review but these posts are so hilarious, I couldn't resist. ^___^ --------------------------------------------------------------- MY SAD OLD REVIEW. -To be honest I didn't read this series until now because of the hideous cover as the guy on the cover looks like someone in a Turkish soap. But yesterday when I didn't had anything to read at all and the only choice I had was either this or some weepy sappy romance novel by Nicholas Sparks,I thought why not. -BUT what I didn't --Well, this is not a review but these posts are so hilarious, I couldn't resist. ^___^ --------------------------------------------------------------- MY SAD OLD REVIEW. -To be honest I didn't read this series until now because of the hideous cover as the guy on the cover looks like someone in a Turkish soap. But yesterday when I didn't had anything to read at all and the only choice I had was either this or some weepy sappy romance novel by Nicholas Sparks,I thought why not. -BUT what I didn't know was that i was going to fall in love again...after a very long time.*sigh* The second reason it was untouched until now was the name Daemon since I have major issues with THE DAMON from Vampire Diaries. BUT Daemon was a jerkface(as Katy points out about a million times) but still AWEsome(as he points out a hundred million times),but that whats makes him so.....I can't even find the right words. I had flashbacks of twilight but who cares. Not me obviously. ^____^ ...more Maravilloso, espl\u00e9ndido, incre\u00edble. Me encant\u00f3 este libro, ame las historia y los personajes. Tiene un ritmo perfecto, la fluidez de las escenas es maravillosa. Estoy completamente enamorada de Damon y del concepto de Lux. Espero leer muy pronto el siguiente libro. Totalmente recomendado Rese\u00f1a Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0... It's like Twilight but better. The writing was so good that it saved this story from blending into the countless other YA books about inhuman teenage guys who look like models but are assholes to the main character in order to protect their attractive family's identity. The plot was a bit predictable, but I don't think anyone's reading this for a super complex story. It was a really easy read and I didn't have a problem with most of the cliche scenarios that are usually in these types of stories. It's like Twilight but better. The writing was so good that it saved this story from blending into the countless other YA books about inhuman teenage guys who look like models but are assholes to the main character in order to protect their attractive family's identity. The plot was a bit predictable, but I don't think anyone's reading this for a super complex story. It was a really easy read and I didn't have a problem with most of the cliche scenarios that are usually in these types of stories. Katy wasn't a pushover at all and had an actual personality, hobbies, and self-respect. Her friendship with Dee was adorable and they totally passed the Bechdel test. Her mother wasn't entirely incompetent and had a legitimate reason for not being in most of the book. And Daemon was a complete jerk, but at least didn't cross the line into any outright abusive behavior. At least Katy's attraction to Daemon wasn't built off the fact that he's super threatening and could easily kill her, but decides to protect her instead (like Patch in Hush, Hush). So... yeah I'm actually giving a book extra stars for that at this point?? But Daemon spent way too much of the story being an asshole without many redeeming scenes... like there just wasn't enough there for me to like in the end. I know that that \"hate\" creates tension and blah blah, but eventually I just stop caring. The main thing that saved the story for me was Katy having enough self-respect to not accept his horrible behavior. This was a pretty funny, light read and definitely one of the better books in its genre. I mean, I wasn't terribly into Daemon or the relationship, yet was still invested enough in the whole story because of the solid execution. (Also, I typically lower my expectations when I go into these YA paranormal type romances that try to romanticize dangerous guys, so maybe take that into account). 3.5 stars -- it was tolerable! If you loved this book, I'd also recommend checking out Velvet by Temple West! My blog | Tumblr | Twitter | Instagram ...more 4.5+ stars! PURE YA GOLD!!! I\u2019ll be honest here, I didn\u2019t think I was going to love a book about aliens. That\u2019s why I put off starting this book for so long. Its not that I had anything against them, I just wasn\u2019t sure if they were my \u2018thing\u2019, you know?? I was wrong. Horribly wrong. They are SO my thing. Well, at least Daemon is. Holy hotness. He\u2019s just\u2026 *fans self*\u2026 seriously for a YA book the sexual tension is just out of CONTROL!! I mean wow! I totally loved it!! Honestly, I have no complaint 4.5+ stars! PURE YA GOLD!!! I\u2019ll be honest here, I didn\u2019t think I was going to love a book about aliens. That\u2019s why I put off starting this book for so long. Its not that I had anything against them, I just wasn\u2019t sure if they were my \u2018thing\u2019, you know?? I was wrong. Horribly wrong. They are SO my thing. Well, at least Daemon is. Holy hotness. He\u2019s just\u2026 *fans self*\u2026 seriously for a YA book the sexual tension is just out of CONTROL!! I mean wow! I totally loved it!! Honestly, I have no complaints\u2026 well, maybe only that the series isn\u2019t finished yet and I freaking want MORE but there\u2019s not much I can do about that except bite my nails and wait no-so-patiently. Ok\u2026 about the book\u2026 In an effort to \u2018start over\u2019 after her Dad dies, Katy\u2019s mom moves them to a small town. And although Katy would much rather spend her time reading books or writing her review blog (yes, she writes a blog. So cool!! Instant bond!), her mom encourages her to get to know the neighbors\u2026 and she does. Meet Daemon Black. Gorgeous, tall, and alluring. But after her first conversation with him, she quickly realizes he\u2019s also arrogant, stab-worthy and oh-so-very-very-infuriating. \u201cHe was probably the hottest guy I\u2019d ever seen in real life, and he was a total douche. Go figure.\u201d \u201cBeautiful face. Beautiful body. Horrible attitude. It was the holy trinity of hot boys.\u201d But something just feels a little off about him and his polar-opposite warm, sweet, fun twin sister who has befriended her. The way people treat them, little glances, tricks of the light\u2026 something about them is different and Katy is about to find exactly what it is. I fell in love with this book and with the characters from the first chapter. It was fresh, fun and catchy. The dialogue was snappy, the banter was awesome, the story-line was engaging, and there was Unresolved Sexual Tension thick enough to cut with a knife. I mean holyyyy!! The writing style had an easy flowing pace that never dragged or felt rushed. Honestly, it just a purely enjoyable experience. Total brain candy =) I loved the light feel of the book. The little hints at mystery. The humor. The snark. The intrigue. But despite the \u2018alien\u2019 thing, it never felt over-the-top fantastical. And it was quite refreshing to have a new twist on the typical paranormal storylines. Daemon\u2026 I couldn\u2019t help but fall for him. Underneath all the bad boy, arrogant, stab-worthyness was a really gorgeous softie that we got little glimpses of here and there. Oh, and he apologizes!!! I\u2019m such a sucker for guys who are badass enough to apologize and still remain badass Even before you read his POV scenes at the end, you can tell that he\u2019s a good guy despite some of his infuriating actions. But I loved that despite his chemistry with Katy being undeniable, she didn\u2019t put up with Daemon\u2019s crap \u2013 not even for a minute. She called him on it, gave him the middle finger on occasion and just because she swooned over him, didn\u2019t mean she just turned into a puddle of goo. She stood up for herself, held her own (I\u2019m thinking about a certain cafeteria scene here involving pasta being dumped on someone\u2019s head) and honestly, never annoyed me. \u201cHoly Hawt Chemistry, Batman!\u201d No kidding!! Half the time I just wanted to shove them at each other and be like \u2018just kiss already!!!!!\u2019 \u201cGeez, I thought you guys were supposed to be nice and charming.\u201d He frowned. \u201cWhat guys?\u201d \u201cYou know, the knight in shining armor and saving the damsel in distress kind.\u201d\u2026 \u201cI\u2019m not your knight.\u201d This book is a little different than a lot of romances because the main couple aren\u2019t officially a couple for the whole of this book. There is a lot that comes between them. His kind isn\u2019t supposed to mingle with humans and she is a huge liability to him, his family and his people. But events just keep throwing them together and by the end, we do get some feeling of \u2018togetherness\u2019 between them. And quite honestly, with his attitude in the beginning, if they had gotten together any sooner, it wouldn\u2019t have felt right. As for the ending, this is the first book in a series of 5 so there is definitely a lead in to the next book. But there is no nail-biting cliffhanger and although I promised myself that I would only read book #1 to see what all the fuss was about and then stop until the rest came out but I need MORE!!! So yeah\u2026 I\u2019ll keep reading them as they come out \u2026. oooo!! And, the author has also written a bunch of the scenes from this book from Daemon\u2019s perspective so we get to see whats inside his head. This whole book is written from Katy\u2019s POV so we really don\u2019t have a clue other than our own suspicions what\u2019s going on inside his head so I found that it totally rounded out the story. A wonderful addition. CLICK HERE FOR THE EXTRA SCENES. Bottom line \u2013 definitely add this to the YA to-read pile! CASTING: Now, I know that, because of the book trailers, a lot of people have cast the cover models as Daemon and Katy (see above picture). And I think they are both really gorgeous, but just don\u2019t 100% fit the way I see the characters. So here\u2019s my version: Katy (I\u2019m still trying to find the perfect picture but I imagine her more as someone like this\u2026 I\u2019m sure I\u2019ll find the right picture as I read further in the series): For more of my reviews, visit Aestas Book Blog And come join the Aestas Book Blog Facebook Page ...more I was honestly surprised by how much I enjoyed this book. I tend to stay away from paranormal romance, because I don't think the genre is for me, but this one was actually decent. I really liked the main character and I thought it was cool that she was a book blogger. She was also sassy and a bit unpredictable at times, which I liked. I also loved the side character Dee, she was a fantastic supporting character. As for the male lead, Daemon, I'm still not sure how I feel about him. He's such a f I was honestly surprised by how much I enjoyed this book. I tend to stay away from paranormal romance, because I don't think the genre is for me, but this one was actually decent. I really liked the main character and I thought it was cool that she was a book blogger. She was also sassy and a bit unpredictable at times, which I liked. I also loved the side character Dee, she was a fantastic supporting character. As for the male lead, Daemon, I'm still not sure how I feel about him. He's such a frustrating character, he was super moody and temperamental throughout this book. For the most part I found this book entertaining! The dialogue between the characters was often hilarious and I was surprised by some of the action packed scenes. THEY WERE AWESOME. Something that did make me uncomfortable was the steamy lovey dovey scenes, but that's mostly because I just don't like that kind of stuff. In fact at times I found myself skimming over those scenes. :P Overall this was a fun read! ...more", "Title": "Obsidian"},
