{"Comments": "This book would be perfect for twelve-year-old girls, but it's just too precious for grown-up readers. Had it been published and promoted as a book for youngsters, I would have rated it higher and reviewed it more gently. But it was marketed as an adult book, so I'll rate and review it as such. The writing, plot, and characters aren't all that bad for light fiction. I was able to finish it without hating it, which is increasingly rare for me with fluff novels. THE PROBLEM: There were a lot of op This book would be perfect for twelve-year-old girls, but it's just too precious for grown-up readers. Had it been published and promoted as a book for youngsters, I would have rated it higher and reviewed it more gently. But it was marketed as an adult book, so I'll rate and review it as such. The writing, plot, and characters aren't all that bad for light fiction. I was able to finish it without hating it, which is increasingly rare for me with fluff novels. THE PROBLEM: There were a lot of opportunities for real depth here. The story could have explored serious issues such as mental illness,<---M> a child's loss of her mother</---M>, and racial tensions in the South of the 1960s. Hoffman kills every chance for depth and dramatic tension by tidily dispatching every crisis with perfectly worded homilies delivered at just the right moment by just the right character. These little sermons are happily accepted by the other characters, who never raise the issue again. They all float along in saccharine harmony until the next crisis, which will be just as neatly dissolved with another special conversation. Sunshine, lollipops, and rainbows get tediously predictable by about halfway through the book. There are some delightful characters, but they aren't believable when they're so easily swayed and soothed. If you're looking for something sweet and fun and you're less critical of light fiction than I, you will probably find this a wonderful little escape. It has a lot of Southern charm and colorful characters, and there are some quite humorous escapades. I loved the photo journey of Miz Hobbs's remarkable traveling brassiere! Aunt Tootie, Oletta, and Miz Goodpepper are lovable but not very convincing. ...more I adore this style of writing, dripping with deep southern charm set in the summer of 1967 Savannah, Georgia. What a sparkling gem of a debut for Hoffman. I'm gonna have to compare this book a little because of the age of the main character to Secret Life of Bee's with a 12 year old girl named CeeCee living in Ohio, with her tender heart in shambles after the passing of her mentally-ill mother and having an absent father with no parenting skills. This event changes her life as she moves to live I adore this style of writing, dripping with deep southern charm set in the summer of 1967 Savannah, Georgia. What a sparkling gem of a debut for Hoffman. I'm gonna have to compare this book a little because of the age of the main character to Secret Life of Bee's with a 12 year old girl named CeeCee living in Ohio, with her tender heart in shambles after the passing of her mentally-ill mother and having an absent father with no parenting skills. This event changes her life as she moves to live with her wise, little Aunt Tootie and her dearest friend and housekeeper Oletta. Told with a beautiful and unique voice and vividly described setting, wonderful eccentric side characters and neighbors. This is a lush story that squeezes your heart, so full of warmth, humor and charismatic characters so real, you just feel like could run over to sit-and-share with them while sipping Iced sweet tea in Tootie's backyard basking in the aroma of Magnolia and Wisteria blossoms. You just can't help but adore Aunt Tootie, Oletta, Miz Goodpepper and Mrs. Odell these generous, spunky, loveable characters that seem to know just what to do to heal CeeCee's tender broken heart and help her bloom simply by being themselves. CeeCee adds to there lives as well to seal a strong circle of friendship. so touching I was crying, laughing and cheerfully embracing this story that feeds the soul and leaves an intoxicating, aromatic delight of great southern food and exotic flowers. A must read for anyone who enjoys southern stories like Ya Ya's series, Steel Magnolia's or The Help. ...more I cried real tears at parts of this lovely story of young CeeCee Honeycutt, a little girl who suffers unimaginable loss at the hands of a mentally ill mother and unsympathetic father. But like the spider web-trapped hummingbird rescued in Chapt. 27 by pulling \"the stickiest strings free of the bird's delicate wings,\" a community of concerned women carries out a similar attempt for CeeCee. In both cases, a wounded creature is allowed to enjoy the life it should. I loved this book that climbs from I cried real tears at parts of this lovely story of young CeeCee Honeycutt, a little girl who suffers unimaginable loss at the hands of a mentally ill mother and unsympathetic father. But like the spider web-trapped hummingbird rescued in Chapt. 27 by pulling \"the stickiest strings free of the bird's delicate wings,\" a community of concerned women carries out a similar attempt for CeeCee. In both cases, a wounded creature is allowed to enjoy the life it should. I loved this book that climbs from frustrating despair to capturing a real glow in life restored. ...more I'm probably the only person in the U.S. of A.<---F> who didn't like this book</---F>. I just don't get what everyone sees in it. It was so sugary sweet I thought it was going to put me in a diabetic coma. And the characters were such steriotypes. Like the wise Oletta who says \"Child, child, you've got a whole lot of healin' to do. But the Good Lord sent you to the right place. Ain't nobody walkin' this green earth got a bigger heart than Miz Tootie\". Argh!! The author was constantly barraging the reader wit I'm probably the only person in the U.S. of A. who didn't like this book. I just don't get what everyone sees in it. It was so sugary sweet I thought it was going to put me in a diabetic coma. And the characters were such steriotypes. Like the wise Oletta who says \"Child, child, you've got a whole lot of healin' to do. But the Good Lord sent you to the right place. Ain't nobody walkin' this green earth got a bigger heart than Miz Tootie\". Argh!! The author was constantly barraging the reader with forced, awkward sounding metaphors. \"I was nestled deep in the feather bed like a baby bird in a nest\". \"A string of cream-puff clouds seemed to bump into the treetops\". \"I noticed an adventuresome earthworm...it lay there sizzled up like a forgotten sausage on a grill.\" I haven't seen so many bad metaphors since Creative Writing 101. I expected a lot from this book because of all the rave reviews, but I was really disappointed. ...more A book very reminiscent of \"The secret life of Bees\", \"Midnight in the garden of Good and Evil\" and a book that at times is so predictable it feels like it has copied the dozens of other books that involve southern charm, race relations, mother daughter relations and young women who rise above disadvantage and ultimately triumph. At times the book would take a turn and I would think \"but hasn't this plot line been in so many other books?\" Even the names of the characters are so predictable of a A book very reminiscent of \"The secret life of Bees\", \"Midnight in the garden of Good and Evil\" and a book that at times is so predictable it feels like it has copied the dozens of other books that involve southern charm, race relations, mother daughter relations and young women who rise above disadvantage and ultimately triumph. At times the book would take a turn and I would think \"but hasn't this plot line been in so many other books?\" Even the names of the characters are so predictable of a southern novel. That said, I read the book in two days......it captivated me. The characters were strong and story line engaging but what did it for me was the imagery. This book was an indulgent sensual bath- at times leaving me raw and sad and then at others being full of comfort, love and goodness. It's a mentally visual feast full of splendid gardens, old homes, lovely architecture, a first visit to the sea, peacocks, hummingbirds and a host of crazy, colorful, indomitable southern women who know how to cook up some comfort food and tell tall tales. I was not surprised that the author was previously the head of a successful interior design firm. And for someone like me, who loves the aura of old houses and splendor of gardens this book just engaged my senses. Just when it verged on being trite one of the characters would offer pearls of wisdom or insight that were so beautifully stated I would be knocked down. And the underlying storyline about grief and overcoming it is something I understand and am interested in. A very satisfying read. ...more This book was a total escape for me. I got lost in the world of precocious, 12-year old <---C>Cecelia Honeycutt</---C> who experienced growing up in a depressing Ohio home, with an absentee father and a psychotic mother that dies tragically. Hope finally appears with a flare, upon the arrival of her unknown, great-aunt Tallulah Caldwell. Aunt Tootie drives CeeCee off to Savanna, Georgia, and a bright new life begins. The book flowed with Southern charm, unforgettable characters, and everyday adventures filled This book was a total escape for me. I got lost in the world of precocious, 12-year old Cecelia Honeycutt who experienced growing up in a depressing Ohio home, with an absentee father and a psychotic mother that dies tragically. Hope finally appears with a flare, upon the arrival of her unknown, great-aunt Tallulah Caldwell. Aunt Tootie drives CeeCee off to Savanna, Georgia, and a bright new life begins. The book flowed with Southern charm, unforgettable characters, and everyday adventures filled with wisdom and love. Here's an excerpt that I related to: \"I loved this time of night, how everything softened and lost the hard edges of day, and how, if the wind moved just right, the live oaks would murmur tender green words across the shadowy lawn. Sitting with a book in the warm circle of light from the table lamp had become my favorite way to end the day.\" I also read at night. I lost a lot of sleep over this book, because I had a difficult time putting it down. I wanted it to go on forever... ...more I wanted to give this book 2 stars, but that felt a little unfair. There\u2019s nothing wrong with the book per se, but it definitely didn\u2019t live up to my expectations. The story is about CeeCee, a young girl from Ohio whose mother just died. CeeCee goes to live with an aunt in Savannah, Georgia where she meets several eccentric Southern ladies. The story itself was fine, but I didn\u2019t find a lot of substance there. The characters were all interesting enough, but pretty one-dimensional, and the storyl I wanted to give this book 2 stars, but that felt a little unfair. There\u2019s nothing wrong with the book per se, but it definitely didn\u2019t live up to my expectations. The story is about CeeCee, a young girl from Ohio whose mother just died. CeeCee goes to live with an aunt in Savannah, Georgia where she meets several eccentric Southern ladies. The story itself was fine, but I didn\u2019t find a lot of substance there. The characters were all interesting enough, but pretty one-dimensional, and the storyline was a little too good to be true. I also felt like CeeCees \u2018voice\u2019 wasn\u2019t that authentic. She came across as way too mature for a 12 year old girl. I just couldn\u2019t see a lot of her thoughts and words coming from a girl that age. This book is good if you need a quick, \u2018pick-me-up\u2019 kind of book, but it\u2019s not the kind of book I felt the need to rush out and recommend to all my friends after reading it. ...more <---A>Beth Hoffman</---A> wrote an incredible first novel. This book to my breath away and I could not put it down. Cee Cee Honeycomb is growing up with a very troubled mother and a father that ignores his entire family. Cee Cee is on an emotional roller coaster. She does SURVIVE.... This book is full of Southern charm and I coould just see myself sitting with her on the porch and the beautiful gardens of Savannah. Cee Cee meets and is taken care of by some wonderful people that I would love to call my friends Beth Hoffman wrote an incredible first novel. This book to my breath away and I could not put it down. Cee Cee Honeycomb is growing up with a very troubled mother and a father that ignores his entire family. Cee Cee is on an emotional roller coaster. She does SURVIVE.... This book is full of Southern charm and I coould just see myself sitting with her on the porch and the beautiful gardens of Savannah. Cee Cee meets and is taken care of by some wonderful people that I would love to call my friends. I cried in this book many times and could imagine being a part of Cee Cee's life back in the 1950's. Think big Pink Convertible with the top down of course. If you loved THE HELP and SECRET LIFE OF BEE'S you must read this wonderful story of love, friendship and beauty. I will be taking a trip to Savannah this summer to see those beautiful flowers ...... ...more For some reason I was little hesitant to pick this book up. It's definitely not a book I would normally read, but it was one of my group's BOtM so I gave it a try. Despite my initial reluctance to try it, once I started reading I couldn't put it down. CeeCee Honeycutt is a little girl who grew up in a house that was anything but normal. Her mother was constantly going through different moods, she had no friends to speak of, and her father was consistently leaving to go on business trips. When Cee For some reason I was little hesitant to pick this book up. It's definitely not a book I would normally read, but it was one of my group's BOtM so I gave it a try. Despite my initial reluctance to try it, once I started reading I couldn't put it down. CeeCee Honeycutt is a little girl who grew up in a house that was anything but normal. Her mother was constantly going through different moods, she had no friends to speak of, and her father was consistently leaving to go on business trips. When CeeCee's mom dies, her world gets turned upside and she is sent to live with family in Savannah Georgia. There she meets an unbelievable cast of characters that help her discover what life is really about. Each character in this book was unique and entertaining. They each had a different story to tell, and a different lesson to teach CeeCee. At the base level this book is about just about a girl who is trying to keep her life from falling apart, but as you dig deeper there are so many different stories that a person can relate to. Threads of racism, prejudice, philosophy of karma, friendship etc... It was a short, quick book that was filled with life lessons and wrapped in a heartwarming package. I loved it! ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 (<---B>This is a review of the audiobook.</---B>) This was charmingly narrated by Jenna Lamia who convincingly sounds not only like an intelligent, forlorn little 12 year-old girl, but the many moods of CeeCee herself \u2013 worry, happiness, embarrassment, guilt, wonder, revenge, fear, grief, sadness, humor, forgiveness, and delight. Ms. Lamia performs the various accents, Northern and Southern, female and male, with distention and authenticity. There are some wonderful, touching scenes in this coming-of-a \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 (This is a review of the audiobook.) This was charmingly narrated by Jenna Lamia who convincingly sounds not only like an intelligent, forlorn little 12 year-old girl, but the many moods of CeeCee herself \u2013 worry, happiness, embarrassment, guilt, wonder, revenge, fear, grief, sadness, humor, forgiveness, and delight. Ms. Lamia performs the various accents, Northern and Southern, female and male, with distention and authenticity. There are some wonderful, touching scenes in this coming-of-age story and she delivers them nicely. ...more \"The afternoon sun sent fireworks of light sparkling off the hood ornament- a miniature silver angel with open wings and her arms stretched out in front of her, palms forward, as if she were ready to push aside anything that dared get in her way.\" First off I want that hood ornament! Sadly they don't put them on cars anymore. *sigh* This quote really jumped out at me because it describes the story as a whole. Ceecee will be protected by the brave, fierce, and beautiful women of Savannah, and \"The afternoon sun sent fireworks of light sparkling off the hood ornament- a miniature silver angel with open wings and her arms stretched out in front of her, palms forward, as if she were ready to push aside anything that dared get in her way.\" First off I want that hood ornament! Sadly they don't put them on cars anymore. *sigh* This quote really jumped out at me because it describes the story as a whole. Ceecee will be protected by the brave, fierce, and beautiful women of Savannah, and they will fight tooth and nail for this girl, just like the angel. Poor Ceecee has had a hard time to say the least. Her crazy mother gets killed. In a way it proves to be a good fortune for her, but just like any other girl she is devasted. Though her mother did more harm then good and many a time she wanted her gone, deep down she knows she always hoped that her mom would someday be a normal mother. Her father is basically out of the picture, and just avoids the whole situation as much as possible. He does do one good thing for her; he decides that Ceecee will go to Savannah with her great-aunt Tootie. That one decesion will change Ceecee Honeycutt's life forever. The southern charm always gets to me. Right off the bat I love books with this kind of setting. The story is not only set in the south but in the 1960's. I'm glad the author didn't try to shove down our thoarts the Civil Right movement, but she does give us clear displays that this in fact is happening. It's not the central idea to the novel but is part of the telling how Ceecee comes to see the world through different eyes. The whole cast of women were great. Starting with Oletta all the way to even Viola. It's actually hard to believe there could be so many generous people, but I do want to believe. The only reason why I didn't give it the whole five stars was because it seemed just a tad too perfect. Other than that the story is lovely and makes you smile to see that people could care so much about one girl. One person after all can make a huge difference. ...more Okay, Readers. I can see the local AMC marquee now -- \"SAVING CEECEE HONEYCUTT\" in scrolling big caps -- and, suitably, it's only a matter of time before Warner Brothers, Imagine, Touchstone, or maybe Castle Rock see the possibilities and potential of this hugely adored novel readers have fallen in love with. I hope there will be a day when this amazing book's enlightening quotes, soul-inspiring words of wisdom, and beautifully developed characters are gathered from the pages and placed before o Okay, Readers. I can see the local AMC marquee now -- \"SAVING CEECEE HONEYCUTT\" in scrolling big caps -- and, suitably, it's only a matter of time before Warner Brothers, Imagine, Touchstone, or maybe Castle Rock see the possibilities and potential of this hugely adored novel readers have fallen in love with. I hope there will be a day when this amazing book's enlightening quotes, soul-inspiring words of wisdom, and beautifully developed characters are gathered from the pages and placed before our eyes in a blockbustering delightful and heartfelt movie. I can foresee the talented cast. I can hear the whirlwind of emotions voiced by the delicately sweet and blooming, yet painfully innocent, book-loving 12-year-old storyteller. And there I will be, front and center. Inside the classy and metaphorically graced hummingbird hardback cover of <+++>Saving CeeCee Honeycutt</+++> are 306 pages of \"saving\" grace. With chapters so wonderfully satisfying and emotionally fulfilling, I lost myself, in the best possible way, within this book and found my heart savoring the power of love, beauty of life, and the prominence of God radiating throughout. Read this story. From one motherless daughter to another, thank you, Cecelia Rose Honeycutt, for saving a little piece of me. ...more It wasn't the worst book I've ever read, but it was pretty flat, and I was disappointed after all the good reviews I read about it. And I had a lot of issues with the book that stopped me from really enjoying it: The characters were pretty flat and stereotypical. The benevolent old Southern white society lady who saves her little grand-niece. Her grumpy-but-oh-so-loveable black maid. The smart but troubled young girl. The crazy mother. I was very aware that these were characters, made up by some It wasn't the worst book I've ever read, but it was pretty flat, and I was disappointed after all the good reviews I read about it. And I had a lot of issues with the book that stopped me from really enjoying it: The characters were pretty flat and stereotypical. The benevolent old Southern white society lady who saves her little grand-niece. Her grumpy-but-oh-so-loveable black maid. The smart but troubled young girl. The crazy mother. I was very aware that these were characters, made up by some author. I particularly had issues with the crazy mom. The author clearly tried to give her some depth, but the character just felt so overdone. I tend to be really critical of \"Mentally Ill Mother\" characters because 1) they're a commonly used plot device, and they have to be really well-written to pull it off, and 2) my mother struggled with alcoholism and depression when I was growing up, so I generally either really relate to the stories or it just seems phony to me. In this story, it seemed contrived. I don't know - maybe the author really had experiences like CeeCee's, and maybe some people with mama-issues related to this story, but I sure didn't. There wasn't really any conflict in this story. I guess the conflict was supposed to have been CeeCee coming to terms with the loss of her mother, which I found utterly un-compelling, or the issues related to Oletta and her friends killing a white man, which was neatly wrapped up in a page. But honestly, it was 300 pages of CeeCee living the charmed life in her big rich Southern house with her big rich Southern aunt. Gee, how interesting. And then there was this little gem: \"Northerners have no idea what real living means, and they don't know a damn thing about etiquette or hospitality.\" Oh, whatever. This book romanticizes the South to a ridiculous degree. Maybe it\u2019s just my Minnesota pride talking, but it really grated on my nerves \u2013 and I\u2019m not against Southern charm in novels by any means. But I don\u2019t think moving to the South solves everyone\u2019s problems, and the idea that being in the North caused her mother\u2019s illness and CeeCee\u2019s unhappiness is simplistic and ludicrous. And it alienated me, as a reader, and made me get all defensive. The writing was all right, but it was very deliberate - nothing about this book seemed effortless to me, it all seemed planned and made up. I think in a really good book, it almost seems that the author is channeling the story and the characters instead of making them up - that was not the case with <+++>Saving CeeCee Honeycutt</+++>. For better, Southern folksy charm books with real substance I would recommend Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe, The Secret Life of Bees, The Help, To Kill a Mockingbird, Divine Secrets of the Ya-ya Sisterhood, or Where The Heart Is. This book wasn't an utter waste of time, it was a simple and pretty quick read, but there are plenty of similar, better books out there. ...more What a wonderful, heart warming surprise this book was. Exceptionally well written. It had me laughing out loud, crying into my hanky, and then laughing again. The \"unpredictable escapades of Miz Hobbs\u2019s remarkable traveling brassiere\" had me laughing until tears rolled down my face. Probably because it reminded me of my daughter, who hung one of my bras on a moose statue in a park in New Hampshire, took a photo and posted it on Facebook. I was in New Jersey at the time or I would have smacked he What a wonderful, heart warming surprise this book was. Exceptionally well written. It had me laughing out loud, crying into my hanky, and then laughing again. The \"unpredictable escapades of Miz Hobbs\u2019s remarkable traveling brassiere\" had me laughing until tears rolled down my face. Probably because it reminded me of my daughter, who hung one of my bras on a moose statue in a park in New Hampshire, took a photo and posted it on Facebook. I was in New Jersey at the time or I would have smacked her! There's a cast of genuine, lovable, female characters that I enjoyed spending time with and left with reluctance. I wish the book had been much, much longer. I wish that I hadn't finished it in one sitting. ...more Great hysterical book set in Savannah. The characters were the best part. Another great southern fiction. Not fond of this book. Here's the recipe for this book: Steal liberally from Pollyanna (including the prism scene), Fried Green Tomatoes(all our woes can be solved by talking to a wise Southern woman), and Steel Magnolias (Southern Belles having a slap down in public); Add a pinch of Southern racial anecdotes ala The Help(although the maid never minds making food while everyone else has fun, she's just happy to be a friend, and on her feet all day.); Add the author's own interest in decorating (a Not fond of this book. Here's the recipe for this book: Steal liberally from Pollyanna (including the prism scene), Fried Green Tomatoes(all our woes can be solved by talking to a wise Southern woman), and Steel Magnolias (Southern Belles having a slap down in public); Add a pinch of Southern racial anecdotes ala The Help(although the maid never minds making food while everyone else has fun, she's just happy to be a friend, and on her feet all day.); Add the author's own interest in decorating (and being rich); Dump in a bag of sugar.. wait, no, two bags of sugar, and three bundles of gooey pink cotton candy; As you stir this mixture together, bit by bit add unrealistic expectations for traumatized children; Don't bake, that would ruin the sweetness! Garnish with a picture perfect happy ending, more sugar, and a huge sticky sweet pink bow. Excuse me, I think I need treatment for diabetes now. ...more I'm about to say something startling, not to say that is out of the norm for me. This book was better than \"The Help\". There it is and yes, you read that correctly, so you don't need to check it again...LOL. I would seriously listen to this one on audio CD, though....excellently done! I have to be honest and say this book was a bit reminicent of 'The Help' in some ways...but I'm not willing to share what those things are, you would have to read it. I currently live in Savannah, GA...which is whe I'm about to say something startling, not to say that is out of the norm for me. This book was better than \"The Help\". There it is and yes, you read that correctly, so you don't need to check it again...LOL. I would seriously listen to this one on audio CD, though....excellently done! I have to be honest and say this book was a bit reminicent of 'The Help' in some ways...but I'm not willing to share what those things are, you would have to read it. I currently live in Savannah, GA...which is where most of the book takes place. I can't say enough about this book...and if I did, I couldn't possibly do the book justice....just read it....I'm not going to say more than that. I will say that I cried several times..this book touches the heart. ...more A sweet and tender book that delivers with plenty of southern charm. I loved the simplicity of this story. A full cast of wonderful colourful characters, it depicts the essence of southern hospitality in a heartwarming way. Although at the beginning the story is tinged with sadness it's delivered with a softness that makes you feel all gooey inside. The women who rally around CeeCee when she goes to live with her Great Aunt in Georgia become paramount in changing CeeCee's life for the better with A sweet and tender book that delivers with plenty of southern charm. I loved the simplicity of this story. A full cast of wonderful colourful characters, it depicts the essence of southern hospitality in a heartwarming way. Although at the beginning the story is tinged with sadness it's delivered with a softness that makes you feel all gooey inside. The women who rally around CeeCee when she goes to live with her Great Aunt in Georgia become paramount in changing CeeCee's life for the better with lots of uplifting lessons learnt along the way. A truly wonderful book! ...more This book was fantastic, I felt like I was in the story. The characters were so authentic and realistic they had me hooked from the beginning. I found myself getting choked up and then laughing out loud, a thoroughly delightful listening experience. CeCe, is an isolated young girl who lives with her bipolar mother and an absentee father. She has no friends, or family that visit, her only real attachment is to an elderly neighbor who has loved and watched over her since she was a baby. After her This book was fantastic, I felt like I was in the story. The characters were so authentic and realistic they had me hooked from the beginning. I found myself getting choked up and then laughing out loud, a thoroughly delightful listening experience. CeCe, is an isolated young girl who lives with her bipolar mother and an absentee father. She has no friends, or family that visit, her only real attachment is to an elderly neighbor who has loved and watched over her since she was a baby. After her mothers untimely death, a new chapter in CeCe's life starts when she goes to live with her, Great Aunt Tootie in Savanna, GA. Aunt Tootie, as it turns out, is the Salt of the earth and lives in grand home that is full of wonderful smells and warm memories. Over time she, her friends, and her hilarious neighbors, help CeCe to heal and learn how to open her heart to love and friendships. Oletta, Aunt Tooties' maid, (long time friend), and CeCe, quickly become thick as thieves. After a mishap while on a trip to the beach, the two of them have a secret that may be their undoing. Many amusing adventures and wonderful feelings of comradery, simply make this charming book one I would definitely recommend to all. Jenna Lamia does a stellar job with all the different women's voices. It's amazing how she did so many different voices all with the southern accent. Each character had a different dialect and were distinctly recognizable. Spectacular Job. ...more I was surprised that I did not like this book since it's had such good reviews. As you may know, it's the story of 12 year old Ceecee Honeycutt from Ohio who has been dealing with her mentally ill mother for years. Her father is mostly absent from their lives. After her mother's death, a wealthy great aunt takes her to live in Savannah where Ceecee meets lots of her aunt's friends most of them slightly eccentric. Hoffman's characters are either very very good or very very bad. Her characters seem I was surprised that I did not like this book since it's had such good reviews. As you may know, it's the story of 12 year old Ceecee Honeycutt from Ohio who has been dealing with her mentally ill mother for years. Her father is mostly absent from their lives. After her mother's death, a wealthy great aunt takes her to live in Savannah where Ceecee meets lots of her aunt's friends most of them slightly eccentric. Hoffman's characters are either very very good or very very bad. Her characters seem wooden and predictable. I didn't even feel much for poor little Ceecee. Surely a child who has had such a terrible life as she would turn out a little less than perfect, which she seems to be. Her aunt and her aunt's friends are stereotypes of what people think of wealthy Southerners. Oletta is the black maid who loves her white family (think \"Help\" without the behind the scenes remarks). There are humorous scenes which could have been much better had they not been so outrageous and predictable. Almost slapstick. I really got tired of it toward the end. Hoffman lives in the North and I doubt has ever lived in the deep South. If she did, she'd know her characters are way off base. ...more Saving CeeCee Honeycutt is a heart-warming, tender, poignant and charming story, sprinkled with a whole lot of love. It includes both very sad and very funny moments. Set in Georgia, it is a Southern tale full of quirky, eccentric, most lovable, resilient female characters. One of the aspects I enjoyed most was the fabulous names of the characters. In addition, I adored the descriptions of Savannah. I could almost imagine the beautiful houses, the characters, the town itself. I could almost tast Saving CeeCee Honeycutt is a heart-warming, tender, poignant and charming story, sprinkled with a whole lot of love. It includes both very sad and very funny moments. Set in Georgia, it is a Southern tale full of quirky, eccentric, most lovable, resilient female characters. One of the aspects I enjoyed most was the fabulous names of the characters. In addition, I adored the descriptions of Savannah. I could almost imagine the beautiful houses, the characters, the town itself. I could almost taste all of that delicious food that Oletta made. I could almost smell the beautiful flowers described throughout. I could almost feel that glorious sunshine in Georgia. Although this book is not dissimilar to The Secret Life of Bees, I much preferred this one and enjoyed it a whole lot more. Even though I felt I had read the story before in comparative books, and I wouldn\u2019t normally like sugary sweet, which this book was on all accounts, I still loved it. If you are looking for a light, emotive and fuzzy read with captivating characters, this book is ideal. ...more \"With a neighbour like mama who needed a TV.\" \u201c'I find all men to be very much like wearing high-heeled shoes\u2014I love how pretty they make me feel, but by the end of the night I can't wait to get rid of them.'\u201d This book was just full of peaches and cream. What a delightful read. It reminds me of a book I read many years ago, Nora, Nora by Anne Rivers Siddons. It has the same small town southern feeling and similar kind-hearted strong women characters. I read in another review\u2014someone compared thi \"With a neighbour like mama who needed a TV.\" \u201c'I find all men to be very much like wearing high-heeled shoes\u2014I love how pretty they make me feel, but by the end of the night I can't wait to get rid of them.'\u201d This book was just full of peaches and cream. What a delightful read. It reminds me of a book I read many years ago, Nora, Nora by Anne Rivers Siddons. It has the same small town southern feeling and similar kind-hearted strong women characters. I read in another review\u2014someone compared this book to the movie Steel Magnolias. Yeah, I can see that. I loved character Oletta Jones. She's one of those honest, no-fuss types. \"'Lord, next time I climb this many steps it best be on the stairway to heaven.'\" \"'The devil will invite Jesus to Sunday supper before I give that women a crumb of my cooking.'\" P.S. Alternate title for this book should be, CeeCee Honeycutt and the Traveling Brassiere. ...more This was my book club's monthly pick, and that was the only reason I finished it. The characters are stereotypes, with one or two quirks tacked on to make them \"eccentric\". The conflict, where it exists at all, is neatly wrapped up so that CeeCee can learn a valuable lesson, PSA-style. The description is overwrought and repetitive (everything is \"sun-dappled\" and looks like \"miles of lace\"), and the voice seems to swing between 8 and 38 years old. There's no real continuing plot; the book is mor This was my book club's monthly pick, and that was the only reason I finished it. The characters are stereotypes, with one or two quirks tacked on to make them \"eccentric\". The conflict, where it exists at all, is neatly wrapped up so that CeeCee can learn a valuable lesson, PSA-style. The description is overwrought and repetitive (everything is \"sun-dappled\" and looks like \"miles of lace\"), and the voice seems to swing between 8 and 38 years old. There's no real continuing plot; the book is more a collection of anecdotes. Books written that way can be good, but in this book, there are so many that each one seems diluted, quickly glossed over to get to the next scene. Readers aren't given time to connect to the characters, the supporting characters aren't given time to develop, and the main characters don't change at all. Not that they need to-- their flaws are things like being too nice, too optimistic, too forgiving. Ugh. Way too syrupy-sweet girl-power for my taste. By the end of the book, I felt like I was the one who'd been hit by an ice cream truck. ...more The opening blurb on Goodreads \"Steel Magnolias meets The Help\". Apt comparison for sure. Full of Southern charm with the subject of growing up female in the 60's handled tenderly. A slight twist in that the little girl in the story is not southern by birth, coming to live in Savannah after her mother dies in a freakish accident. I found the cast of characters engaging and easy to love or not, and laughed out loud a few times with the antics of the often eccentric but thoroughly charming women. The opening blurb on Goodreads \"Steel Magnolias meets The Help\". Apt comparison for sure. Full of Southern charm with the subject of growing up female in the 60's handled tenderly. A slight twist in that the little girl in the story is not southern by birth, coming to live in Savannah after her mother dies in a freakish accident. I found the cast of characters engaging and easy to love or not, and laughed out loud a few times with the antics of the often eccentric but thoroughly charming women. Life lessons and pearls of wisdom abounded on subjects every girl needs to learn,forgiveness, grieving,responsibility,nurturing one's self esteem and finding your passion or fire. I understand this was a debut novel, and I say bravo! I will be looking out for more form this author. ...more Beth Hoffman's Saving CeeCee Honeycutt , set in the 1960s, is Southern fiction at its best -- poignant, lush and enveloping like breakfast in a sunny nook. That's pretty much how I felt while reading this story: wrapped up in a comfortable world with colorful characters willing to share their secrets with me. CeeCee is a bright, introspective young woman who absorbs everything she sees and desperately hopes she'll find security with her aunt in Savannah. That's what she seems to crave, more than Beth Hoffman's Saving CeeCee Honeycutt , set in the 1960s, is Southern fiction at its best -- poignant, lush and enveloping like breakfast in a sunny nook. That's pretty much how I felt while reading this story: wrapped up in a comfortable world with colorful characters willing to share their secrets with me. CeeCee is a bright, introspective young woman who absorbs everything she sees and desperately hopes she'll find security with her aunt in Savannah. That's what she seems to crave, more than anything: friendship. Love. Support. Things most of us probably take for granted -- myself included -- but which she has never experienced after caring for her ailing mother for so long. A minor quibble of mine involves CeeCee's ability to think philosophically and well beyond her years one moment, but still say something adolescent and sweetly oblivious the next. Maybe that's the jaded cynic in me bursting forward, but I felt a little annoyed with CeeCee's naivet\u00e9 a few times in the story. CeeCee as a narrator seems much older than CeeCee the character, and that may have been part of my unease. Still, it wasn't a major issue -- and certainly didn't dampen my enjoyment of the story. Lovers of Southern fiction and coming-of-age tales will fall in love with CeeCee and the friends she makes in Georgia, and those of us with a sweet tooth will savor every recipe and dish Oletta lovingly prepares in Aunt Tootie's kitchen. My stomach grumbled so loudly at the mention of Oletta's famous cinnamon buns that I almost had to shove the book aside and make a bakery run. Hoffman's ability to make my stomach gurgle -- and tug at those old heartstrings -- is quite a feat. A heart-warming read I'm happy to share with friends. ...more CeeCeelia Rose Honeycutt is only twelve but acts as the primary caretaker of her mother. Being unable to deal with her mothers mental instability, her father walked out on them, leaving CeeCee to bear the burden. Often parading herself around town in prom dresses, tiaras and her 1951 Vidalia Onion Queen sash Camille (CeeCees mother) makes her daughters life complicated. When tragedy strikes, CeeCee is whisked away to Georgia, by her great aunt Tootie, and introduced to a world of southern living CeeCeelia Rose Honeycutt is only twelve but acts as the primary caretaker of her mother. Being unable to deal with her mother\u00b4s mental instability, her father walked out on them, leaving CeeCee to bear the burden. Often parading herself around town in prom dresses, tiaras and her 1951 Vidalia Onion Queen sash Camille (CeeCee\u00b4s mother) makes her daughter\u00b4s life complicated. When tragedy strikes, CeeCee is whisked away to Georgia, by her great aunt Tootie, and introduced to a world of southern living. Reminiscent of such novels as The Secret Life of Bees and Whistling Past the Graveyard, this novel has southern charm written all over it. The narartive follows CeeCee, an avid reader and bright girl, that has to bear a stigma placed upon her because of her mother. Dealing with what appears to be bipolar disease, Camille can not get a grasp of reality. Her husband walked out and CeeCee was left to pick up the pieces. That is until, she arrives in Savannah and is embraced by her great aunt Tootie. From the kind and supportive Oletta to the eccentric Miz Goodpepper, CeeCee is introduced to a network of southern women. Along with their hospitality, they offer CeeCee their friendship and upmost support. Its not until CeeCee experiences this new life that she can truly deal with her life with her mother and to see her in a different light. While the novel has some issues, it ultimately was a fast, easy and charming read. One that left a smile on my face and had me wishing I had someone like Oletta in my life. ...more This book started out with an interesting premise. I love a mom who has gone crazy-train and thinks she's a beauty queen 24/7. But then it didn't go anywhere. Following her mother's death CeeCee moves to Savannah where apparently everyone is wonderful and everything perfect (Except Mrs. Hobbs who really isn't that bad. I didn't like Mrs. Goodpepper that much to be honest). It has a couple of false-starts where I think there will be action and plot starting but almost as soon as it's there they'v This book started out with an interesting premise. I love a mom who has gone crazy-train and thinks she's a beauty queen 24/7. But then it didn't go anywhere. Following her mother's death CeeCee moves to Savannah where apparently everyone is wonderful and everything perfect (Except Mrs. Hobbs who really isn't that bad. I didn't like Mrs. Goodpepper that much to be honest). It has a couple of false-starts where I think there will be action and plot starting but almost as soon as it's there they've moved on to another small vignette of CeeCee's savannah life. This book may have squelch by with 3 stars but at times the prose felt purple. I listened to this on audiobook (love Jenna Lamia) and it was hard to ignore the fact their were similes almost every sentence. Example \"The clouds were like the veil of a runaway bride\" probably not the exact wording because I have no way to look it up. The little girl is 12 and as far as I garner she has no experience with runaway brides (this is prior to the popular movie). The similes and imagery often felt distracting and unnatural. Some people love pretty flowery language but I am not one of them. It's probably a good thing I listened to this on audiobook or else I could give you a whole list of similes, metaphors and images that didn't work for me. But lucky for both of us I can't do that. Audiobook comment: As always Jenna Lamia does an excellent job narrating. She does a young girl better than any other narrator I've heard. ...more I am not sure I can even put into words what a great read this book was for me. I loved every word. I laughed and cried and felt so blessed to be reading this story. I cannot think of another word that covers what a wonderful feeling I had for the young girl in this story and all of the older women in her life that she met in Savannah, Georgia, where she went to live after her mother died. She had no friends except an elderly woman neighbor for the first twelve years of her life. No getting aroun I am not sure I can even put into words what a great read this book was for me. I loved every word. I laughed and cried and felt so blessed to be reading this story. I cannot think of another word that covers what a wonderful feeling I had for the young girl in this story and all of the older women in her life that she met in Savannah, Georgia, where she went to live after her mother died. She had no friends except an elderly woman neighbor for the first twelve years of her life. No getting around it, her mother had mental problems. Books were her friends. And then, her life changed. The characters in this story are real characters. Funny and scary and over the top. Beth Hoffman can really string words together. Beautiful words. The young girl was crying. Her aunt retrieved a handkercheif srom her shiny black handbag and pressed it into the girl's palm. \"Her handkerchief smelled as wonderful as she did. Edged in delicate lace wih tiny violets embroidered along its edges, it was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen. But after I'd wiped my eyes and blown my nose, it looked like a soggy bouquet laying limp in my hands.\" Does anyone under the age of 70 carry, real cotton, lace edged hankies in their purses today? Maybe the magic in this story has to do with the Southern setting. The wonderful old houses, the old oaks draped in Spanish moss, all of the flower gardens. \"The biggest trees I's ever seen reached out to one another as if trying to hold hands over wide, brick-paved streets, and grand old houses stood tall and proud on smooth shade-dappled lawns. Like a curious spaniel, I leaned my head out the window and breathed in.\" Meet Miz Goodpepper: \"It was impossible not to gawk at her outfit. Like bread dough rising in a warm pan, her milky-white breasts overflowed from a purple bikini top. Tied at her waist was a filmy red scarf that floated over black cigarette pants.\" Meet Mrs. Fontaine: \"A white-haired, rosy-cheeked woman opened an interior door. She smiled, looking as happy and plump as a July toad.\" \"Southern hospitality not only came from the heart but was a practiced social art that had been passed down from one generation to the next - like fine silverware or china. Southerners had a way of doing things that made youi feel special...\" It is a beautiful story. I hope you read it soon. ...more This quirky, funny story had me from hello. It was heart-warming, humorous, sad and moving...sometimes all on the same page! A charming, sweet story of Deep South Savannah, this is an emotional roller coaster of a book. It's impossible not to have your heart break when you read about young CeeCee dealing with her mother's mental illness and the pain and guilt she goes through after her mother dies. But it is equally impossible not to smile and even laugh at the antics the ladies of Savannah get This quirky, funny story had me from hello. It was heart-warming, humorous, sad and moving...sometimes all on the same page! A charming, sweet story of Deep South Savannah, this is an emotional roller coaster of a book. It's impossible not to have your heart break when you read about young CeeCee dealing with her mother's mental illness and the pain and guilt she goes through after her mother dies. But it is equally impossible not to smile and even laugh at the antics the ladies of Savannah get up to occasionally, and by the end of the book your heart will rejoice at CeeCee's new-found happiness and faith in the future. I fell in love with Aunt Tootie and Oleta. Aunt Tootie is the grandmother we all dream of. Oleta is a feisty character who really brings CeeCee out of her shell by her no-nonsense attitude. The house feels so warm and inviting. If you knocked on their front door, they would invite you in for one of Oleta's \"fabulous cinnamon rolls.\" I hope the rumors of a sequel are true because I want to know more about this unusual family. Now I want to move to Savannah!:) **\"It's how we survive the hurts in life that brings us strength and gives us our beauty.\" **\"Don't go wasting all them bright tomorrows you ain't even seen by hanging on to what happened yesterday. Let go, child. Just breathe out and let go.\" ...more I read this a few weeks ago and somehow my review was lost. And now, sadly, I have to think about this book again. This is a terrible book. The story is about a girl whose mother goes crazy and dies and her father has no interest in parenting her. So she goes to live in a southern paradise with her great aunt, her black maid and an assorted cast of characters. But they love their colored help. Heck, they even invite them to their garden parties and give them TVs. And not only are they invited, t I read this a few weeks ago and somehow my review was lost. And now, sadly, I have to think about this book again. This is a terrible book. The story is about a girl whose mother goes crazy and dies and her father has no interest in parenting her. So she goes to live in a southern paradise with her great aunt, her black maid and an assorted cast of characters. But they love their colored help. Heck, they even invite them to their garden parties and give them TVs. And not only are they invited, they actually accept the invitation. This world is the creation of the myth that southern \"genteel\" whites want to believe so they can rationalize the subjugation of a people for so long. And the writing is awful. Most of the book is people sitting Ceecee down and telling her stories. It just doesn't work. I am stunned this made a bestseller list. Read The Help or The Secret Life of Bees instead. ...more", "Title": "Saving CeeCee Honeycutt"},
