{"Comments": "I absolutely devoured this book! I found it engaging and very well written. The reason I am giving this book 5 stars is because not only was the story engaging, but it was fast paced and I could identify with one of the main characters, Steve. Like him, I was upset with Western Medicine and how I felt and sometimes do still feel dismissed. It was in Eastern medicine combined with Western medicine that I found many of my issues able to be controlled. One of the main things in the book when Steve I absolutely devoured this book! I found it engaging and very well written. The reason I am giving this book 5 stars is because not only was the story engaging, but it was fast paced and I could identify with one of the main characters, Steve. Like him, I was upset with Western Medicine and how I felt and sometimes do still feel dismissed. It was in Eastern medicine combined with Western medicine that I found many of my issues able to be controlled. One of the main things in the book when Steve does something to his doctors that many may find reprehensible is to get them to both realize that one needs to \"marry both types of medicine together\".<---F> I could not agree more</---F>. The only thing I found about this book that bugged me was at the end when the author describes Steve and Paul's childhood adventures in a specific location. I thought this information could have been scattered throughout the book but it was not enough for me to drop a star of my rating. The ending chapter was a nice ending and a surprise ending at the best. I did not see it coming and honestly, many readers may not see it coming. This book is staying on my Kindle to be read again if I meet my challenge goals before the end of 2012. I do recommend this book to anyone who enjoys Eastern medicine and a great story about the search for truth. ...more GREAT BOOK! A GREAT Thrilling Ride!!! Intelligent writing- (much respect for the author's ability to craft TRUE FACTS and weave them into an exciting FICTION/MYSTERY/DRAMA. ANYONE interested in their 'own' personal HEALTH ---(and who isn't?), or interested in Western medicine vs. Eastern Medicine-- ....alternative preventative care---acupuncturist, ... benefits of yoga and meditation (stillness), GiGong,<---M> rebalancing the elements</---M>, energy in the body, etc. ....and who enjoys reading stories based on GREAT BOOK! A GREAT Thrilling Ride!!! Intelligent writing- (much respect for the author's ability to craft TRUE FACTS and weave them into an exciting FICTION/MYSTERY/DRAMA. ANYONE interested in their 'own' personal HEALTH ---(and who isn't?), or interested in Western medicine vs. Eastern Medicine-- ....alternative preventative care---acupuncturist, ... benefits of yoga and meditation (stillness), GiGong, rebalancing the elements, energy in the body, etc. ....and who enjoys reading stories based on TRUE medical FACTS and complications ---(with a fun thriller-twist)---this is the perfect book to read! Steve Benson (a frank, fast thinking always interesting main character), spends 15 years of his life ---(and money),looking for a cure into his mysterious illness. He has debilitating pain and loss of ability to have sex ---devastating to his psyche. Trouble sleeping, chronic joint pain, etc. His coffee & chocolate junkie food habit exacerbate more stress. Western doctors suggest pills (lots of pills) --and often tell him he is having Pyschosomatic manifestations. Not only did Steve Benson spent 15 years searching for a cure to end his pain--he wanted the doctors who missed diagnosed him to experience the pain he went through and admit they were failing their patients. He was going to TEACH the DOCTORS a life lesson! As the reader: One cannot help but feel GOOD while Steve Benson holds two doctors hostage. (fantasy at its best). There is tenderness in this book, too, but doled out judiciously. This is a fiction book---but the 15 year 'search-for-a-cure' was THE AUTHORS daily life. Its sad-its funny-its moving-inspiring- AND.... You just might wonder about your own latent trigger points and the effects they might be having on YOUR nerves in YOUR body... If you are like me--you might find yourself looking up carotid sheath and the vagus nerve in the body. ---And walk away with a better understanding of how metal, fire, water, wood, and earth are connected ---as in connected to the organs in your body. And last: The book has a wonderful ending!!!! ...more okay, so here's my problem: i enjoyed the book. but steve's a psychopath. what he did to yoshida & silberman is inexcusable. i suppose i need to think of him as more of a hannibal lecter, so i can get over my sense of moral outrage. :) This book is extremely fascinating. It deals with the idea that the medical profession, highly respected specialists specifically, feel that they are infoulable. It also deals with ancient Chinese medicine, qigong and the five elements in Chinese culture. It takes place in modern Czech Republic for the most part and is in part a medical story, a mystery and comment on society. While it may confuse some readers who like to skim read books, if you take you time, really read it and ponder what is w This book is extremely fascinating. It deals with the idea that the medical profession, highly respected specialists specifically, feel that they are infoulable. It also deals with ancient Chinese medicine, qigong and the five elements in Chinese culture. It takes place in modern Czech Republic for the most part and is in part a medical story, a mystery and comment on society. While it may confuse some readers who like to skim read books, if you take you time, really read it and ponder what is writen you could very well find yourself learning something new and even questioning some of the medical treatments you or your loved ones have received. May even change your life style a little. Very well written and highly recommended. ...more This is one of the most innovative stories that I have come across in a long time. The storyline grabbed me from the very start and I couldn't put it down until I finished. Chris has an amazing ability of tying personal pain and frustration into a fictitious tale, while spreading the word about Eastern Medicine vs. the ever failing, over prescribing Western medical doctors. He truly opened my eyes to the world around me, especially being someone who has been told that my health issues are \"psyc This is one of the most innovative stories that I have come across in a long time. The storyline grabbed me from the very start and I couldn't put it down until I finished. Chris has an amazing ability of tying personal pain and frustration into a fictitious tale, while spreading the word about Eastern Medicine vs. the ever failing, over prescribing Western medical doctors. He truly opened my eyes to the world around me, especially being someone who has been told that my health issues are \"psychosomatic.\" Kudos Chris! You are an extremely talented writer and teacher. I hope it takes you far. ...more Did you like the DaVinci Code? If you did, then I guarantee you'll love this book too. It's truly a unique page-turner that takes you on an exciting journey. I thought it was equally well written and intelligent in its plot. It's a must read for anyone interested in alternative medicine. The fact that it's based upon true events made it even more interesting. I wasn\u2019t sure what to expect when I bought this book, but I knew I had to read it because I love anything having to do with Chinese medicine. At first I was disappointed it was fiction, but as soon as I started reading it I found myself completely taken in by a well-crafted story. <+++>The God Complex</+++> is brilliantly inspiring, and it was in no way predictable-full of suspense and completely thought provoking. I appreciate the fact that I learned a few things (okay, a lot) that I didn\u2019t know about Chi I wasn\u2019t sure what to expect when I bought this book, but I knew I had to read it because I love anything having to do with Chinese medicine. At first I was disappointed it was fiction, but as soon as I started reading it I found myself completely taken in by a well-crafted story. <+++>The God Complex</+++> is brilliantly inspiring, and it was in no way predictable-full of suspense and completely thought provoking. I appreciate the fact that I learned a few things (okay, a lot) that I didn\u2019t know about Chinese medicine, and I was happy when the book confirmed what I already know\u2014that it works. I won\u2019t soon forget this story, and in fact, it\u2019s a book I\u2019ll read more than once. I hope to read more from <---A>Chris Titus</---A> in the future, and I\u2019ll be recommending this book to the people I care about. ...more I really enjoyed this story and learned alot from it. I had a health problem myself and was in the hospital for a week, because they did not what was wrong with me. They would come and go and tell me this and that, and I starting feeling like they really didn't care about my well being they were just trying to find a solution so they could get me out of there. Finally they sent a lady in with a paper and concluded that my condition was like Steve's all in my head. So I could really relate with t I really enjoyed this story and learned alot from it. I had a health problem myself and was in the hospital for a week, because they did not what was wrong with me. They would come and go and tell me this and that, and I starting feeling like they really didn't care about my well being they were just trying to find a solution so they could get me out of there. Finally they sent a lady in with a paper and concluded that my condition was like Steve's all in my head. So I could really relate with the pain the main character felt. I really am interested in Chinese medicine now and will be doing my own research on it. Thank you for a great story =) ...more As a person who is less than enamored with traditional doctors & Western medicine, I found this to be a very interesting read. Which is amazing, since I never would have picked up a book claiming to be a handbook of Eastern medicine, martial arts, or acupuncture. But elements of all those things were included in this thriller - and I could hardly put it down. This book was both informative AND entertaining. I definitely would read more by this author! The book was a little 'slow' in places but I loved the storyline. Having worked for doctors most of my adult life, there is absolutely (what I call) the MD, PhD, GOD syndrome. This is especially true when Eastern/alternative medicine is involved. I would have liked a little more 'closure' pertaining to the doctors. I would be interested in reading more books by Chris Titus in the future. The author Chris Titus is a native of Boston, Massachusetts. Over the past fifteen years, he has held various investment research positions with a focus on the health care sector. A traveler at heart, Titus has lived in Austria, Greece, and the Czech Republic, where he taught English and built an online social network for Greeks. He is conversant in German and is learning Greek. He currently resides in Boston, Massachusetts. (source: http://www.godcomplexnovel.com/ ) The synopsis Inspired by actual The author Chris Titus is a native of Boston, Massachusetts. Over the past fifteen years, he has held various investment research positions with a focus on the health care sector. A traveler at heart, Titus has lived in Austria, Greece, and the Czech Republic, where he taught English and built an online social network for Greeks. He is conversant in German and is learning Greek. He currently resides in Boston, Massachusetts. (source: http://www.godcomplexnovel.com/ ) The synopsis Inspired by actual events, The God Complex takes readers on a thrill ride through Chinese medicine. Discover the secrets of the Orient as you embark on a Da Vinci-style adventure. Follow along as a dynamic conspiracy ensues, pitting Eastern medicine against its critics in the West. Each clue brings you one step closer to solving the mystery and uncovering an ancient secret that connects Chinese medicine to martial arts. (source: http://www.godcomplexnovel.com/ ) The review This book caused some mixed feelings. I noticed it when it was posted as a freebie somewhere and checked the synopsis and got it because I felt it was interesting. The other day in one of my book clubs it was introduced as possible book of the month and I was considering not reading it after reading the introduction there. It took me some time to put things together and realize it was the same book I just got. This book is introduced as a thriller, conspiracy and mysteries should be the anchor point of this book. Though there is a murder and a kidnapping included I did miss out on the whole thriller story. For me this book was more about Chinese medicine, acupuncture and martial arts. Did this disappoint me? Yes, cause I love a good thriller, suspense novel and no.. because the book caught me on other interests. I practice nunchaku a martial art which got nothing to do with the acupuncture points cause it has a whole different origin. Still it is combined with other martial arts and it occasionally happens one is hit on a soft spot and goes down. On the same hour there is a group next to us practicing Wing Chun, which definitely fits in this whole story. So that part was interesting enough already. Next, I suffer from post traumatic neuropathy as a result from the removal of a kidney (don't worry I had three of them) and have been confronted with the God complex of medical specialist on various occasions. It actually took me 20 years to get a diagnose (and I am 31 while writing this). This condition triggered various other problems in my belly area and for a year back I was send to \u201calternative\u201d treatment by a company doctor as she noticed that the regular medicine made things worse. The regular treatment for my condition is a corticosteroids treatment where they put the steroids in your spine to disturb the signals of pain getting trough to your brain. The only problem with this treatment was that it stopped all the other signals too like those of the intestine system. As soon as I walked in the practice of the alternative treatment facility they started to acknowledge things and in this book I found a lot of recognition. That was very entertaining specially because my doctor sometimes says things but cannot explain them proper (language barrier) and I saw them explained in this book. Other than that, the story is a bit shaky. I got the whole clue before the warehouse chapter already (to avoid spoilers, if you read it you will get it). The diary was very realistic, though I cannot imagine making the same choices, the feeling is similar. The whole book is a bit bumpy but surely an interesting read if you want to have a basic understanding why people decide to turn their backs on regular medicine and look for alternative ways combined with a basic explanation why it can work. ...more This was really like 2 separate books. The first part concerned Paul. He has traveled to Prague after his brothers death there. The death is treated like a suicide, but Paul does not think his brother would have killed himself. He begins an investigation into the death, but he really doesn't get very far. I loved the descriptions of the city and the culture in Prague. It made me want to travel there, to see the same sites as Paul. The next part of the book concerns Steve, and his quest to bring t This was really like 2 separate books. The first part concerned Paul. He has traveled to Prague after his brothers death there. The death is treated like a suicide, but Paul does not think his brother would have killed himself. He begins an investigation into the death, but he really doesn't get very far. I loved the descriptions of the city and the culture in Prague. It made me want to travel there, to see the same sites as Paul. The next part of the book concerns Steve, and his quest to bring together Chinese medicine and American Medical doctors. This is no easy task, as most medical doctors find it hard to look for anything other than pharmaceutical answers. I did feel that this portion of the book was too abrupt. Suddenly we are in the middle of a plot to kidnap and re-educate doctors. It didn't seem to flow with the first part of the book in Prague. I felt much of the book was like reading a text book on Chinese medicine. This is fine if you are expecting a text book, but I was expecting a good, entertaining story. The description of the book compared it to the Da Vinci Code. I was expecting more of conspiracy theories, messages hidden in plain sight, etc. Instead, this book had none of the feel of Da Vinci Code, so I was a little disappointed by that. If you are looking to get a broad understanding of Chinese medicine, you might like this book. But I felt this book attempted to educate the reader at the expense of the story. ...more \"The God Complex\" is a novel that revolves around our health care system we have. Doctors nowadays don't take the time out to really see their patients and find out what is the underlying cause of their illness. All they care about is the insurance and copayments they get for each visit (but I know that this isn't true for all doctors out there, just the majority). Steve Benson went to numerous western doctors to find out what health problems he has, but most or all of them turned him around and \"The God Complex\" is a novel that revolves around our health care system we have. Doctors nowadays don't take the time out to really see their patients and find out what is the underlying cause of their illness. All they care about is the insurance and copayments they get for each visit (but I know that this isn't true for all doctors out there, just the majority). Steve Benson went to numerous western doctors to find out what health problems he has, but most or all of them turned him around and just said he is psychsomatic (was that the word?) Or, they just prescribe him with antibiotics and other nonsence meds to no avail. Only when he finds out about Eastern medicine, does his health start to turn better. There is a kick of mystery involved in this novel. This novel was very interesting, and quite realistic too (except the end). I am Chinese myself and I found the TCM parts fun to read, confusing, but something new to know about. There was a part in the novel that discussed about the health care system we have here and its quite true. ...more What would happen if a doctor, who relies on western medicine, was given a chance to be taught traditional Chinese medicine? Would that doctor embrace the chance to learn and expand his knowledge, or would he scoff at the 'crack pots' who believe in a more holistic approach? What would you do if someone approached you with a totally different way of treating patients symptoms? Steve Benson has been plagued by various undiagnosed symptoms for years. He inadvertently finds a practitioner of Chinese What would happen if a doctor, who relies on western medicine, was given a chance to be taught traditional Chinese medicine? Would that doctor embrace the chance to learn and expand his knowledge, or would he scoff at the 'crack pots' who believe in a more holistic approach? What would you do if someone approached you with a totally different way of treating patients symptoms? Steve Benson has been plagued by various undiagnosed symptoms for years. He inadvertently finds a practitioner of Chinese medicine who sets him on a path of healing. With real events woven into an intriguing fictional mystery, The God Complex takes you through a twisting journey of unrelenting symptoms, strange medical encounters, traditional fighting skills and finally peace. The characters are believable, the settings are real and Steve Benson's difficulties finding relief are all too true. If you are interested in alternative medicine, like a page-turner that takes you on an exciting journey, then this book is a must read. ...more FASCINATING! The God Complex is a mystery/thriller with a great plot, interesting characters, and a fascinating look into traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture, its contrast with Western medicine. Inspired by true events, it really made me think about how I live and treat my own body as well as what knowledge I\u2019m passing along in my own family! The story follows the paths of two brothers. One, Steve, has apparently committed suicide in a foreign country and it is up to his brother, Paul, to g FASCINATING! The God Complex is a mystery/thriller with a great plot, interesting characters, and a fascinating look into traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture, its contrast with Western medicine. Inspired by true events, it really made me think about how I live and treat my own body as well as what knowledge I\u2019m passing along in my own family! The story follows the paths of two brothers. One, Steve, has apparently committed suicide in a foreign country and it is up to his brother, Paul, to get to the truth behind his actions. I loved the settings in this book. The story shifts between the Boston, Prague, and Greece. Very nice! I really got a feeling for each location. I was left wanting a little more though. It seemed like the author was just ready to wrap the story up and be done when I got to the final page. But maybe I was whipping through too quickly, it gets intense! But what happened to the doctors? ...more I won this book in a giveaway contest, but I didn't know what exactly I can expected from this book. I just knew part of the book is located in Prague (I'm from Czech republic) and there is Chinese medicine involved (which I found very interesting). So after I start reading this book I was really suprised (in positive way) how well it is written. It starts in Prague, where we meet with Paul Benson, who just found out that his brother probably commited suicide. He starts reading his journals and I won this book in a giveaway contest, but I didn't know what exactly I can expected from this book. I just knew part of the book is located in Prague (I'm from Czech republic) and there is Chinese medicine involved (which I found very interesting). So after I start reading this book I was really suprised (in positive way) how well it is written. It starts in Prague, where we meet with Paul Benson, who just found out that his brother probably commited suicide. He starts reading his journals and he learns that his brother was in pain for many years and no doctor was able to help him, until he discovered mystique of chinese medicine... I realy enjoyed this book I would recommend it to everyone who wants to know some basic and easily understandable things about chinese approach to medicine and martial arts. And yes, Czech girls are the most beautiful. :) ...more This book is not what I expected. I expected a mystery involving a medical modality that acquainted me with Prague. The book did not deliver. The mystery and story were weak. If the author wanted to get his message out about eastern medicine, I think he would have been better off to write it as non-fiction. Pluses: -gives good opportunity to appreciate the blend of western and chinese medicine. -a nice visit through Prague - understandably angry; however, the anger overshadows the book a bit - a page turner, but not really \"DaVinci Code\" as billed This is a great book with an exciting page turning roller coaster ride through. I really liked this book and will hopefully get to read more of Chris Titus. Good job. Definite recommend. LOVED it This isn't a book I would normally read, because the idea of torturing people is too evil and dark to even think about or imagine. Despite that I felt drawn into the questions it poses about healthcare in the US and viewed it more as an analogy instead of as act done by a human to another human. In this case, when healthcare is not managed well in the best interest of the patient it can cause great harm. For example, in the way doctors are so specialized in certain areas of the body that they fa This isn't a book I would normally read, because the idea of torturing people is too evil and dark to even think about or imagine. Despite that I felt drawn into the questions it poses about healthcare in the US and viewed it more as an analogy instead of as act done by a human to another human. In this case, when healthcare is not managed well in the best interest of the patient it can cause great harm. For example, in the way doctors are so specialized in certain areas of the body that they fail in the collaboration of healing the entire system or patient undergoing treatment. Other questions were raised by this book as well, like eastern medicine and diet. The reason I only give it a 3 is because the ending seemed weak to me due to the way it raised concerns about how patients are treated in the healthcare system. ...more This was another book that I really had trouble putting down. Perhaps because I'm currently struggling with some health issues, I found the information about Eastern Medicine quite intriguing. The premise for this book is that the main character has a history of medical issues, and due to their thankfully near-bottomless depth of financial reserves, is able to explore all that Western Medicine has to offer. When he finds it coming up short, for reasons related to the influence of Insurance compa This was another book that I really had trouble putting down. Perhaps because I'm currently struggling with some health issues, I found the information about Eastern Medicine quite intriguing. The premise for this book is that the main character has a history of medical issues, and due to their thankfully near-bottomless depth of financial reserves, is able to explore all that Western Medicine has to offer. When he finds it coming up short, for reasons related to the influence of Insurance companies and Big Pharma on diagnoses and medical treatment, he begins to explore Eastern medicine and what it has to offer. Of interest is not that he declares that one is better than the other, but rather ultimately concludes that it is a combination of both methodologies that has the best effect. That being said, the author then takes this person's personal struggle and wraps an exciting tale around it. I can't go into too many specifics without providing spoilers, but this character becomes our proxy medical hero - the kind of informed patient we all want to be, and the kind that medical professionals probably loathe. I had issues with some unresolved plot items at the end of the book, but otherwise found this book fascinating in its technical explanations, effortlessly presented to the reader in practical examples, and with a story-bound instructional plotline that helps explain the myriad complex concepts. The storytelling itself was fairly tight, and quite engaging. As I mentioned, I had a hard time putting this one down, so it made for a quick read. There are definitely some fantastic and improbably elements to the story, but hey - that's fiction. ...more I got this free from a Kindle promotion months ago and didn\u2019t get to read it until now. This was quite the strange reading experience. It started out with me thinking on the lines of \u201cOh, I like this writing style \u2026 it flows fluidly and draws me in on the first page\u201d. Then, a few pages later the perspective shifted and I began to get bored. Don\u2019t get me wrong. I liked the integration of eastern medicine into the story and that it was deeper than just your normal mystery/thriller. But it did lack I got this free from a Kindle promotion months ago and didn\u2019t get to read it until now. This was quite the strange reading experience. It started out with me thinking on the lines of \u201cOh, I like this writing style \u2026 it flows fluidly and draws me in on the first page\u201d. Then, a few pages later the perspective shifted and I began to get bored. Don\u2019t get me wrong. I liked the integration of eastern medicine into the story and that it was deeper than just your normal mystery/thriller. But it did lack somehow in the execution. There were large passages quoted from a diary of a person who committed suicide, detailing his long-term illness years previously, his disappointment with western medicine and how he was eventually cured by eastern medicine. It was just a bit too much. After a while the mystery-part of the story took second row and the ending was taking on a bit of a unbelievable turn. Oh, and sometime in-between there was another shift in perspective, leaving the previous narrator far behind. I did finish it and I don\u2019t really regret having read the book. However, it didn\u2019t quite live up to expectations. It is advertised as a thriller. Well, this it certainly is not. Even during passages where I felt like I should be \u201cthrilled\u201d I was only vaguely curious. It is a nice work to point out some of the flaws in modern medicine and how alternative methods might sometimes give better results, but that is just about it. ...more Evidently inspired by true events, we follow the story of a man whose health steadily deteriorates as a result of poor diagnoses by medical professionals who are too busy to pay attention, too brainwashed to recognize other methods of treatment, and/or too invested in their own delusions of omnipotence to notice they\u2019ve failed. Filled with lots of information about ancient Eastern practices of healing, I found this a highly entertaining/enlightening/thought-provoking read. Although the main char Evidently inspired by true events, we follow the story of a man whose health steadily deteriorates as a result of poor diagnoses by medical professionals who are too busy to pay attention, too brainwashed to recognize other methods of treatment, and/or too invested in their own delusions of omnipotence to notice they\u2019ve failed. Filled with lots of information about ancient Eastern practices of healing, I found this a highly entertaining/enlightening/thought-provoking read. Although the main character resorts to some pretty drastic means to prove his point, it has a certain appeal to our darker desires to exact revenge and teach a lesson to those who harm us. I liked the mystery aspect and wished it had played a bigger part. The presentation of the mistakes of Western medicine versus the holistic approach of Eastern medicine became a little long-winded/repetitive at times, but overall a good read. A few minor typos were noted, but not enough to ruin the story. ...more I enjoyed this interesting foray into the world of modern medicine's failure to cure the many sick of our society, rather choosing to treat symptoms with a plethora of pharmaceuticals. A bit over the top response from the main character when he takes things into his own hands. I would imagine a person having studied Eastern medicine would take a more peaceful or zen approach to self treatment and education. (You'll have to read it to understand what I am talking about.) The ending was strange, a I enjoyed this interesting foray into the world of modern medicine's failure to cure the many sick of our society, rather choosing to treat symptoms with a plethora of pharmaceuticals. A bit over the top response from the main character when he takes things into his own hands. I would imagine a person having studied Eastern medicine would take a more peaceful or zen approach to self treatment and education. (You'll have to read it to understand what I am talking about.) The ending was strange, and unfulfilling, hoping a sequel is coming to answer questions about the ending. ...more This was a really interesting book and unlike anything else I've read this year. I was completely engrossed throughout and I was eager to read it every day. Understanding the principles of Eastern medicine really opened me up to alternative forms of treatment because it made so much sense. I loved the way this book taught the reader something as well as had an interesting mystery behind it. Really riveting book. Highly recommended. I received this book through the Librarything Giveaways. Intelligently put in the format of a thriller, The God Complex is a book full of vital information with the power to change one's perspective towards Western and Eastern medicine. Apart from a gripping story-line which constantly makes you wonder, what's gonna happen next?, it's the intricate and detailed explanation of the basics of martial arts and Eastern medicine that makes The God Complex a must read. This book came up when I did a \"books set in\" search. I wanted a novel set in Prague because of an upcoming trip. I liked it...weird but compelling. It's about a man who has had a mysterious illness for 15 years and he is fed up with western doctors who have \"the god complex\" -- they think they have all the answers. This is a great explanation of Eastern medicine and how it is undervalued by Western societies. Although this book is a novel, it shows the importance and necessity of integrating Eastern with Western medicine to treat the whole patient. This is a very short book, an easy read, and its information will stay with you forever. Nice theme and quite relevant. Tends to read like non fiction when gets into technical details and diagrams related to Chinese medicine and martial arts. Brilliantly conceived but mediocre in execution. Definitely worth reading,<---C>Chris Titus</---C>", "Title": "The God Complex"},
