{"Comments": "What a sweet story, it's one you can transport yourself into another world where things like communicating with animals and controlling the wind seem entirely feasible.<---F> The characters are really likeable (esp</---F>. Geric- I don't think there was enough of him. Every word he said would make a girl smile) I'm classifying this book as strong female because I loved the fact that when Geric wrote Ani off,<---M> she was upset and angry</---M>, but her world did not collapse (contrast that to Bella in New Moon who did n What a sweet story, it's one you can transport yourself into another world where things like communicating with animals and controlling the wind seem entirely feasible. The characters are really likeable (esp. Geric- I don't think there was enough of him. Every word he said would make a girl smile) I'm classifying this book as strong female because I loved the fact that when Geric wrote Ani off, she was upset and angry, but her world did not collapse (contrast that to Bella in New Moon who did not want to live after Edward left her because that was her sole purpose for being on this earth, please!) I loved that Ani was upset, but had more important things to do than sulk over a guy that didn't work out (like save the Bayern kingdom from a dishonest queen and the Kilendrean kingdom from an impending war!) I think she was more upset about losing her horse than losing Geric. This book has a little bit of everything- suspense, adventure,self discovery,romance, friendship, loyalty, magic, and a happy ending. Ani discovers how powerful she really is, and that she has been all along. My favorite line in the book is a statement about true friendship. When Ani confides to her friend Enna about her true identity, Enna says \"When you get tired of worrying and mourning your horse and trying not to be afraid, tell me and I'll do it for you a while so you can shut your eyes and sleep peaceful.\" ...more December 21-22, 2015 This book is sooooo fantastic! I love it! June 17-19, 2014 I freaking love this book!!! December 24, 2010 - January 2, 2011 Not sure what else to say about this book beyond, \"Wow! It's awesome!\". I mean, I've read it SEVERAL times now and just bought it for my sister-in-law for Christmas... I love it! March 9-10, 2010 Errr... ditto to what I said before. And now I'm REALLY excited to read Enna Burning just as soon as it gets here through ILL!! April 3, 2009 In an Austin Powers voice: December 21-22, 2015 This book is sooooo fantastic! I love it! June 17-19, 2014 I freaking love this book!!! December 24, 2010 - January 2, 2011 Not sure what else to say about this book beyond, \"Wow! It's awesome!\". I mean, I've read it SEVERAL times now and just bought it for my sister-in-law for Christmas... I love it! March 9-10, 2010 Errr... ditto to what I said before. And now I'm REALLY excited to read Enna Burning just as soon as it gets here through ILL!! April 3, 2009 In an Austin Powers voice: \"One million stars...\" It's been a really long time since I added a book to my favorites bookshelf. (It takes quite a special book to earn a spot there, after all... thought it may not LOOK like it to the casual observer...) But I didn't hesitate before adding this one. This is what I think about the book: If someone had told me before I read this book, \"Hey, Sara! You should read this book! It's about a girl who can talk to birds!\" I would have (1) tried really hard not to roll my eyes, (2) smiled and nodded, and (3) never ever picked up the book. Things like that are just.... CHEESY, you know? \"Oooh... Animal whisperer...\" But this book SUCKED me in. Like a really powerful vortex that even the Starship Enterprise could never get out of... (And Captain Janeway got them out of a really bad-ass vortexy-type thing one time.) Usually there's kind of a \"boring\" part of a book\u2014at the beginning.... somewhere in the middle, when it starts dragging... But this book had nonstop suction. (Wow. It sounds like a vacuum cleaner!) ANYWAY, the book sucked me in. It was just so interesting, with its mythology-type stories/legends at the beginning, and then really quickly, she starts her journey toward Bayern... And all along the way CRAP keeps happening to her. Usually books that make you tear-up do so near the end, you know? But this one... it was like 50 pages into the book, and I'm on the verge of tears. The mere fact that I cared enough about the characters only 50 pages in to cry over stuff that's happening to them REALLY speaks highly of the writing, I'd say. So ALL THIS CRAP keeps happening to her, and I'm like, \"Uhhh... Shannon.... I read your Austenland book, and it had a happy ending... If this book doesn't start turning around, I might go jump off a bridge!\" (Nevermind that there aren't any bridges in Bryan other than overpasses...) Parts were just so sad. But it all turned out pretty all right in the end, I'd say. (I can't stop grinning, so that's an understatement...) I was going to say something else... what.... character development. Ani/Isi shows REMARKABLE character development through the course of the book, which is fabulous! From shy, timid, and with an I'll-never-be-as-good-as-my-mother attitude to what she ends up as.... It's great. Just wonderful. Anyway, go read the book. The audiobook was AMAZING!! Produced by Full Cast Audio. It had a different reader for every character! It was fabulous! Like listening to a movie with a narrator! The library's copy of Enna Burning is checked in... I'll have to go pick it up tomorrow morning! :) Then on to River Secrets and Forest Born ! EDIT: The library copy of Enna was lost, so I STILL haven't been able to get it... grrr... ...more 4 stars! Ani is a young princess with a unique gift, she can speak animal languages. From a very young age she learned to speak to the swan\u2019s in the pond and forged a beautiful connection with a horse foul, Falada. When her father, the king, dies, Ani learns from her mother that she is to be sent off to a neighboring kingdom to be wed to their prince. Along the journey, Ani\u2019s handmaid Selia leads a coup and gets half of Ani\u2019s soldiers to turn against her. Ani flees for her life, and when she fi 4 stars! Ani is a young princess with a unique gift, she can speak animal languages. From a very young age she learned to speak to the swan\u2019s in the pond and forged a beautiful connection with a horse foul, Falada. When her father, the king, dies, Ani learns from her mother that she is to be sent off to a neighboring kingdom to be wed to their prince. Along the journey, Ani\u2019s handmaid Selia leads a coup and gets half of Ani\u2019s soldiers to turn against her. Ani flees for her life, and when she finally reaches the kingdom she finds that Selia has assumed her identity, and has all of the guards on her side. Ani becomes the palace goose girl, and she hides in the castle hoping to earn enough money to return home\u2026 This book started out very slowly, I had to work hard to get to the point where the plot was moving quickly. It took about 100 pages in until the plot became clear as to where it was going. Once Ani reaches her new kingdom is where the story gets really interesting. She is placed in a new land without any allies and must figure out how to survive. Through the kindness of others, Ani manages to get healthy again, and find a job where she makes new friends. This is a heroine who perseveres when bad things kept happening to her instead of falling apart. Ani is a great role model for young girls because she learned from her experiences and did not give up, she was kind to other people even when they weren\u2019t that nice to her. When finding herself destitute she got a job and earned money instead of turning to others to do it for her or by other less honorable means. This story is a classic case of the good girl wins and the spoiled misbehaving girl loses, a message meant to teach children to be kind and tell the truth and good things will come to you. The romance was sweet and very clean, but not the central point of the story. The most important factor was Ani\u2019s journey of self-discovery and how she became her own person once her princess title was stripped from her. A great fantasy book, and perfect for tween girls. Thanks again to Feifei for all of the great tween recs! :) ...more Wow, is all I can say, just plain old flat out wow. You expect this to be some sort of, princess fairy tale, in a sense it is just give it a little bit of action and suspense and there you go, <+++>The Goose Girl</+++>, It goes in a direction you totally don't expect, all of a sudden Ani the little naive princess is suddenly on the run from the scary warriors! The ending doesn't disappoint there's even a battle, who'd expect that from a Princess Fairytale? I really liked how it kind of kept you on your toes Wow, is all I can say, just plain old flat out wow. You expect this to be some sort of, princess fairy tale, in a sense it is just give it a little bit of action and suspense and there you go, <+++>The Goose Girl</+++>, It goes in a direction you totally don't expect, all of a sudden Ani the little naive princess is suddenly on the run from the scary warriors! The ending doesn't disappoint there's even a battle, who'd expect that from a Princess Fairytale? I really liked how it kind of kept you on your toes the entire time and when you think you're safe for a while <---A>Shannon Hale</---A> sends in the bad guys and attack Ani in the middle of the night. Once you finish the book you're wanting more. If only Megan didn't turn Enna Burning into the library the day before I finished it... ...more I found this confusing to get into because there are many different characters that come and go quickly. Some elements to the story that it lingered on never really seemed to serve much purpose. The audiobook production was amazing though - a full cast and sound effects - and that kept me going. I really enjoyed how Ani was able to sit with the hand she'd been dealt. She found joys in where she was and bade her time. She wasn't consumed with revenge or sorrow, but in the end she knew how to step I found this confusing to get into because there are many different characters that come and go quickly. Some elements to the story that it lingered on never really seemed to serve much purpose. The audiobook production was amazing though - a full cast and sound effects - and that kept me going. I really enjoyed how Ani was able to sit with the hand she'd been dealt. She found joys in where she was and bade her time. She wasn't consumed with revenge or sorrow, but in the end she knew how to step up to try to make things right. The ending was very fulfilling and gripping to me. ...more The Goose Girl is an adaptation of the Grimm fairy tale by the same name \u2014 which I had never heard of before reading this book. I guess if Disney hasn\u2019t already adapted it, I\u2019m more or less clueless when it comes to fairy tales. ;-) That comes in handy, though, when reading a new story \u2014 I figured that Princess Anidori-Kiladra (a.k.a. Ani; a.k.a. Isi, the Goose Girl; a.k.a. the Yellow Lady \u2026 there\u2019s a lot about disguise and identity in this story, if you can\u2019t tell) would live happily ever after The Goose Girl is an adaptation of the Grimm fairy tale by the same name \u2014 which I had never heard of before reading this book. I guess if Disney hasn\u2019t already adapted it, I\u2019m more or less clueless when it comes to fairy tales. ;-) That comes in handy, though, when reading a new story \u2014 I figured that Princess Anidori-Kiladra (a.k.a. Ani; a.k.a. Isi, the Goose Girl; a.k.a. the Yellow Lady \u2026 there\u2019s a lot about disguise and identity in this story, if you can\u2019t tell) would live happily ever after \u2014 the heroines always do in fairy tales. Still, I flew through the pages to see what would happen in the meantime. (In a non-spoiler summary, she\u2019s not spared from sorrow, but things still work out for the best.) Hale\u2019s prose is terrific \u2014 poetic and lyrical, easily creating a world where it\u2019s entirely believable that strange and almost-magical things could happen. I loved one of the major themes of the book: that Ani\u2019s unique talents (or even Ani\u2019s so-called \u201cweaknesses,\u201d for she didn\u2019t have the talents which seemed natural to a princess) could be a boon once they were developed. It sounded a lot like a Young Women\u2019s lesson (which probably isn\u2019t too far off, really, as some research revealed that the author is LDS). Great read. ...more Poor Shannon Hale. I think the most frequent comment I've heard about her as an author is, \"She's LDS and like Stephenie Meyer, doesn't write LDS fiction.\" I'm not sure it was a good enough reason to check out her book, Goose Girl, but I did it anyway. My sister, Jen, liked this book and that was one more reason, but a good enough one for me. It was a nice break from some of the meatier stuff I've been reading. It's not meatless, exactly, but written as a fairy tale in the voice of a young prince Poor Shannon Hale. I think the most frequent comment I've heard about her as an author is, \"She's LDS and like Stephenie Meyer, doesn't write LDS fiction.\" I'm not sure it was a good enough reason to check out her book, Goose Girl, but I did it anyway. My sister, Jen, liked this book and that was one more reason, but a good enough one for me. It was a nice break from some of the meatier stuff I've been reading. It's not meatless, exactly, but written as a fairy tale in the voice of a young princess so it's about as meaty as Chicken Noodle Soup. There are some worthwhile themes throughout the book. Ambition, gifts, honesty, work. The princess, whose name was blessedly shortened to Ani for most of the book, lacks the power of persuasion that her mother, the Queen, possesses. The author calls this gift \"People Speaking\" and while Ani doesn't possess that particular gift, she does possess the rarer, and less esteemed \"Animal Speaking\" and later \"Nature Speaking\" gifts. She can talk to swans, as a girl, and later, while in hiding when her lady-in-waiting pulls a coup during their journey to meet her betrothed, learns to speak to the geese she keeps. Ultimately, she uses these gifts, especially her ability to talk with wind, to restore her place as Crown Princess, leaving us with the lesson that we can rely on the gifts we possess to accomplish what is necessary. I think. At least, that's what I'm taking away from it. A la....To Thine Own Self Be True without all the fancy talk. Those elements create the fairy tale, as well as all the prince and princess stuff, but this felt surprisingly modern to me. There were times the dialogue seemed appropriate to the time of the story, but most of the time, I heard the voices of young, spoiled American teens in my head, especially when the ruthless Selia spoke. In any light, Goose Girl is an easy read, with some sound moral backbone - as fairy tales usually have, but isn't incredible literature - as fairy tales usually aren't. But sometimes, it's nice to simply read a good story. Goose Girl is that. ...more At first, I was only mildly interested in what was going on in this retelling of a classic fairy tale. However, once the action got started, I really enjoyed listening. The cast was perfect--voices, ages, gender; every voice seemed correct. I think this was/is especially true in terms of the emotional aspects of the characters--I could totally hear it in their voices, which was refreshing. In terms of the story, I really enjoyed the character of Geric. His relationship with Ani, especially when s At first, I was only mildly interested in what was going on in this retelling of a classic fairy tale. However, once the action got started, I really enjoyed listening. The cast was perfect--voices, ages, gender; every voice seemed correct. I think this was/is especially true in terms of the emotional aspects of the characters--I could totally hear it in their voices, which was refreshing. In terms of the story, I really enjoyed the character of Geric. His relationship with Ani, especially when she was the goose girl, was very realistic and I liked the humorous note that Hale wrote into their conversations. Another of my favorite characters was Enna. I am excited to read more and see what happens to her after these events. Though I haven't read the blurb on the back of the second book (I think I'll probably listen to that one too, if it is available), I hope she and Finn get together. ***SPOILER ALERT*** A few things that annoyed me about the book: 1. Imagine you need to tell someone something. Something that could mean you live or die--how would you go about it when you were facing them and surrounded by people? Would you shout and scream \"Please! Let me say something! Please!\"? Or, perhaps, would you JUST SAY WHAT YOU NEED TO SAY AND STOP YELLING STUPID CRAP? Yeah, I thought so too. 2. Imagine you're in the process of discovering that you can hear voices, whether they are from animals or nature. Regardless, if you heard a voice that told you you dropped something in a stream, would you just walk away? Neither would I. 3. I felt like Ani was an idiot for not running to her horse as soon as she thought something was up. 4. I didn't want the horse to die. ...more [5.0 Stars] Original Rating [4.5 Stars] Re-Read 2016 I still absolutely adore this book, but I confess Ani/Isi really annoyed me the first 50 pages or so. For those reasons this re-read gets knocked down half a star. My original rating still stands though. This book is a favorite of mine because of how simple, magical, and heartwarming it is. Can't wait to re-read Enna Burning! Super fun read. Incredible imagination that was clear and easy to read. Very likeable characters that made the books that followed interesting and appealing. I got this book at Half-Price Books the other day, only because I remembered to bring the list I made of authors and books I needed to look for. *applauds self* Only happens once in a blue moon. Next time I go, I will be picking up any of the Books of Bayern that I see, even if it's number four. Normally when I read series, I'll buy book one, read, book two, read, book three, read, etc. But I can't risk letting these slip away, and possibly buying book two and NOT HAVING BOOK THREE!!! Which is a I got this book at Half-Price Books the other day, only because I remembered to bring the list I made of authors and books I needed to look for. *applauds self* Only happens once in a blue moon. Next time I go, I will be picking up any of the Books of Bayern that I see, even if it's number four. Normally when I read series, I'll buy book one, read, book two, read, book three, read, etc. But I can't risk letting these slip away, and possibly buying book two and NOT HAVING BOOK THREE!!! Which is also why I have Cinder and Cress but not Scarlet . Terrible, terrible me. But let's move on... I was super excited and nervous to start reading this, mostly because it sounded sooo good, and I wanted it to live up to that. I'm quite sure it did. As usual, major potential spoilers within spoiler tags. The Good -The characters. Gravy, I loved Ani. And Talone. Conrad was pretty rad too. (See what I did there? :P) Pretty much everybody was appropriately loved/hated. I love how much Conrad came around in the end. -Talking to animals. Talk about awesomeness! I loved the bird speaking stuff, but as a horse person, I really loved everything with Falada. And yes, horses care very little for the world of humans. Very, very little. (view spoiler) [My love for Falada is probably what made me not want to believe he was dead. At all. If there was one thing I could change about this book, Falada's death would be it. But that should be in the bad section, so I'll shut up now. (hide spoiler) ] -The worldbuilding. Such. A. Gorgeous. World. I am so jealous, and I now want to move to Bayern, thank you very much. Kildenree sounds awesome too, but Bayern's even better. Also, the fact that I remember the names is also really good. ;) -The plot. Oh, how I loved it. Heartbreak, heartache, and such a perfect ending. -Enna. Duh, I know the title of the next book. I loved how Hale worked in Enna. Makes me even more excited for Enna Burning . (view spoiler) [-Betrayal. I was SO SO ANGRY at Selia. HOW COULD SHE??? But there were hints, and I applaud Hale for her wit. Also, how her own punishment designed for Ani came back to bite her in the rear (close to literally). -The wind-speaking. SO COOL!!! After Ani finally figures it out, it's just... *sigh* Awesomeness. I am so jealous. (hide spoiler) ] The Bad -...not enough??? I wish there would have been more of everything. However, sequels. *wiggles eyebrows* (view spoiler) [-Dying-not-dying. From here on out, I shall be calling this \"Marvel Syndrome\". Only a small case of this, with Talone, and I seriously, completely forgive this, because I love him so much. -Geric as prince. I guessed this ages before. Especially when I found out the \"prince\" was so young. However, I thought that maybe Geric and the supposed prince had switched places or something. Clearly, much less complicated in the actually book. (hide spoiler) ] The Ugly There was a ton of blood in this one. Didn't bother me too much, but... death and goriness. (view spoiler) [And killing horses. *beats keyboard* (hide spoiler) ] Also there's mention of a punishment that I can't exactly quote (and I'm too lazy to find it) that is quite, um, not fun. To say the least. Involves being dragged by horses and being in a barrel of nails. And a little more. I think that's all... I ADORED this book. I have put it on my mental re-read-as-many-times-as-possible list, along with my BUY-SEQUELS-NOW list. And many others. If you haven't read this, go read it. And for the person/people who recommended this, THANK YOU SO MUCH YOU ARE AMAZING. *wink*Chloe*wink* ...more Anidori-Kiladra Talianna Isilee was born the Crown Princess of Kildenree, but her mother didn\u2019t feel she was fit to rule and instead arranged a marriage with a neighboring kingdom, passing the title on to Ani\u2019s brother. Ani was always a strange child, she didn\u2019t open her eyes for the first three days after her birth, and her aunt taught her to speak with birds. It\u2019s no wonder her mother didn\u2019t feel that someone who could be considered a witch should sit on the throne. So off Ani goes with her La Anidori-Kiladra Talianna Isilee was born the Crown Princess of Kildenree, but her mother didn\u2019t feel she was fit to rule and instead arranged a marriage with a neighboring kingdom, passing the title on to Ani\u2019s brother. Ani was always a strange child, she didn\u2019t open her eyes for the first three days after her birth, and her aunt taught her to speak with birds. It\u2019s no wonder her mother didn\u2019t feel that someone who could be considered a witch should sit on the throne. So off Ani goes with her Lady-in-Waiting Selia to be married to the prince of Bayern, in order to bring peace to the two neighboring kingdoms. On her journey, Ani is betrayed by Selia and soon finds herself alone in a foreign land, with Selia\u2019s guards hunting for her and her former Lady-in-Waiting stealing her name. Taking a job as a goose girl (a girl who cares for the king\u2019s geese) puts a roof over her head and allows her to save up money to return home and tell her mother of the betrayal. That is, until she finds out war\u2019s coming and she no longer has time to return home, but must instead take back her name and her heritage to protect her kingdom. This is the first Shannon Hale book that I\u2019ve read, and I now understand why everyone\u2019s been singing her praises. The story was well-crafted and captivating, and I immediately wanted to go out and buy the next two books that take place in this world. Happily, she\u2019s the not the kind of author who feels the need to rehash a finished story, and the other two books are about secondary characters from The Goose Girl, and I look forward to reading them. Here\u2019s another fine book with a strong heroine who didn\u2019t exactly ask for her position, but rose to it none the less. Ani as the Crown Princess never really felt like she could fulfill that role\u2014she simply thought she would have to. When she loses her role as the next ruler of Kildenree, she finds herself unsure of who or what she will become next. Even though she\u2019s betrothed to a prince, she knows she\u2019ll never be the ruler, just the wife of one. Still, she doesn\u2019t really think about all of this until she finds herself alone in the woods without her name or royal identity. She redefines herself, becoming a goose girl and finally stepping up and becoming a princess in action, not just in title. The magic in this book is well worth mentioning. Instead of traditional \u201cwave a magic wand\u201d or have a fairy godmother appear magic, Hale crafts a world of people-speaking, animal-speaking, and nature-speaking. These rare magics allow Queens to command attention and for Ani to learn to talk to the wind. It\u2019s great to see such unique magic woven into an already excellent story. The animal talking was also well crafted; Hale stayed true to the way animals would talk, not letting Ani have long conversations with them, but more getting ideas and things like \u201cdanger\u201d or \u201cgood grazing land\u201d across. The geese were especially well-written, as anyone who\u2019s been around geese knows that they\u2019re both truly evil and incredibly loyal animals. A goose would make a good attack animal for an evil overlord, now that I think about it. Read the rest of my review at Bookwyrm Chrysalis :: YA Fantasy Book Reviews ...more I really feel like I am missing something--or, at least, whatever the agents, editors, and legions of Shannon Hale fans found so fabulous about this debut novel that launched her successful career, including two sequels to this book. Given all the fanfare about Hale, I was sorely disappointed in this novel. The premise is interesting, and the opening chapters are breathtaking. No doubt about it, Hale can write some gorgeous prose, and the story sparkled with possibilities. However, the character I really feel like I am missing something--or, at least, whatever the agents, editors, and legions of Shannon Hale fans found so fabulous about this debut novel that launched her successful career, including two sequels to this book. Given all the fanfare about Hale, I was sorely disappointed in this novel. The premise is interesting, and the opening chapters are breathtaking. No doubt about it, Hale can write some gorgeous prose, and the story sparkled with possibilities. However, the characters and plot just didn't really develop, in my opinion. It's hard to say much without creating spoilers, so I will say only that I think that, in Hale's mind, Ani (the Goose Girl) developed and grew and changed and came into her own a lot more than was apparent to me. The secondary characters, for the most part, seemed one-dimensional. I was also disappointed in the seeming lack of use of Ani's ability to talk with geese, etc. I guess it just promised a lot, and every time I'd start a chapter I would think, oh, yes, here we go, NOW we are going to flesh out so-and-so character or NOW we are going to see the fruition of Plot Point A...but, no--instead we'd get some repetition of other points. Like a flower bud, there was all the potential but then it never really blossomed. Perhaps since this was Hale's debut novel, she has honed her skills--indeed, I would suspect so since she has since won the Newbery Honor Award. This just reminded me of a first draft of a talented author's novel--it's all clear in the author's head and she thinks she is developing the points well enough, or perhaps really wants to make one point clear and then focuses on that to the point of exhausting it to the detriment of other points. It's not a bad story--I enjoyed it well enough, but I found myself bored and frustrated more times than I was pleased and engrossed. Even so, I think Hale does have a way with words and I will look forward to reading one of her more recent works to enjoy what I imagine will be a more maturely developed story. NOTE OF CAUTION: Although this story is very old-fashioned and seemingly innocent, parents and sensitive readers should be advised that there are a few passages that quite surprised me with their violence--one involving an animal killing and another a story that touches upon rape of village women. It's still a very PG-13 sort, but even so it seemed grossly out of place in this tale. ...more I think this is going to be a very difficult review to write. I did enjoy the book - in parts - but overall I was underwhelmed and left feeling that the book could have been so much better. At times, Hale's writing was very poetic, painting a vibrant picture in her unique and fluid style. At other times, it felt redundant, and time was spent on unimportant descriptions. I liked the characters, but wanted more from them. I liked the plot, but felt all \"the good stuff\" was never explored. I felt as I think this is going to be a very difficult review to write. I did enjoy the book - in parts - but overall I was underwhelmed and left feeling that the book could have been so much better. At times, Hale's writing was very poetic, painting a vibrant picture in her unique and fluid style. At other times, it felt redundant, and time was spent on unimportant descriptions. I liked the characters, but wanted more from them. I liked the plot, but felt all \"the good stuff\" was never explored. I felt as though I understood where Hale was trying to take the story, where the intent was meant to lead, but I felt I had to take myself there, and it was up to me to fill in the gaps. Also, the story itself is really cute in parts: a defiant goose who adores Ani? Sweet! A loyal horse who understands Ani's inner feelings? Enchanting. But some of the story is really quite unnerving and, though the descriptions aren't really gruesome, I felt they didn't fit with the rest of the story. Like I said, I did *like* the characters, but more for what was implied than actually written. I believe we were to understand that the characters grew, became stronger, more assured, but I never really saw much of it. And while I think each character was supposed to be unique in their own right, there wasn't much that separated one from the other. But, I still feel the story is worth three stars because, for whatever reason, I was always curious to read the next chapter, always curious to see what exactly would transpire. It's just that, more than not, the book didn't live up to my hopes. It felt more like a great first draft that needed further development. But, it is a fairly unique twist on a fairy-tale-ish story, and I give Hale credit for her ingenuity. I just would have liked even more. And, I am curious to read the sequel, and other of Hale's work. ***** Here's goes! I've been really anxious to read this:) ...more Love this book just as much on my third reread. <3 This novel is a re-telling of the traditional fairy tale of the same name, telling the story of a princess, who, en-route to a marriage to a prince of a neighboring country, falls victim to the machinations and ambitions of her servant girl, who passes herself off as the real princess, forcing the real royal to take the position of a goose girl. The book sticks to the details outlined in the Brothers Grimm version of the tale pretty exactly - you can read it here: http://www.pitt.edu/~dash/grimm08 This novel is a re-telling of the traditional fairy tale of the same name, telling the story of a princess, who, en-route to a marriage to a prince of a neighboring country, falls victim to the machinations and ambitions of her servant girl, who passes herself off as the real princess, forcing the real royal to take the position of a goose girl. The book sticks to the details outlined in the Brothers Grimm version of the tale pretty exactly - you can read it here: http://www.pitt.edu/~dash/grimm089.html But the writing is excellent, and really makes the characters come alive. Very emotional, and satisfying for anyone with a love of traditional stories. update: Fans of this book may also wish to take a look at another take on the story, Intisar Khanani's 'Thorn.' https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ...more The Goose Girl (The Books of Bayern #1), Shannon Hale This book is impossibly sweet and wonderful. I'm only sorry it took me so long to read it! 5 stars . This book. Beautiful. Magical. I don't even know where to begin, or what exactly I adored the most about it. I finally narrowed down my thoughts into 5 points as to why I loved this book so much. 1. I loved how the lovely Miss Shannon Hale chose to adapt one of the lesser known of Grimms' fairy tales - to be honest, I had no idea there was a fairy tale called the Goose Girl until I read this book - but this tale is such a dark and yet uplifting one, it truly deserves to be shared 5 stars . This book. Beautiful. Magical. I don't even know where to begin, or what exactly I adored the most about it. I finally narrowed down my thoughts into 5 points as to why I loved this book so much. 1. I loved how the lovely Miss Shannon Hale chose to adapt one of the lesser known of Grimms' fairy tales - to be honest, I had no idea there was a fairy tale called the Goose Girl until I read this book - but this tale is such a dark and yet uplifting one, it truly deserves to be shared with more people. It's also just such a breath of fresh air to not read yet another Cinderella or Snow White retelling. 2. The magic system of this world: The gifts of people-speaking, animal-speaking, nature-speaking - I can't even form words, it was so unique, so beautiful to read about, it was just delightful, honestly. 3. The characterization - Ani's transformation throughout her journey, and the people she met along the way, all of them were flesh-and-blood characters in their own right, unique, and with a story to tell. 4. The writing in general was wonderful . Beautiful. Haunting. Hopeful. Magical. I'm gushing, I know, just let me. 5. Finally (although I'm sure I could keep on going) Falada. I just. I loved this character so much. His role in this tale added a depth that was just breathtaking. This. BOOK. Guys - do yourself a favor, and read it. It truly touched my heart. I recommend it to everyone. ...more \u201c... If we don't tell strange stories, when something strange happens we won't believe it.\u201d This is a precious fairy tale retelling! Shannon Hale has a beautiful writing style that transports you back in time to your innocent childhood self. If your looking for a sweet bedtime story to read to your little girl, please PLEASE pick this up! Overall Rating \u2192 5 \u201cWarrior Geese\u201d STARS Price is Right? \u2192 (view spoiler) [ YES ($2.99 on Amazon, 1/2/2017). (hide spoiler) ] Love Triangle? \u2192 (view spoiler) [ no. \u201c... If we don't tell strange stories, when something strange happens we won't believe it.\u201d This is a precious fairy tale retelling! Shannon Hale has a beautiful writing style that transports you back in time to your innocent childhood self. If your looking for a sweet bedtime story to read to your little girl, please PLEASE pick this up! Overall Rating \u2192 5 \u201cWarrior Geese\u201d STARS Price is Right? \u2192 (view spoiler) [ YES ($2.99 on Amazon, 1/2/2017). (hide spoiler) ] Love Triangle? \u2192 (view spoiler) [ no. Appropriate for Grade 6-9 (hide spoiler) ] Cheating? \u2192 (view spoiler) [ no. It\u2019s YA! There had better not be any cheating in books for Grade 6! (hide spoiler) ] Angst Level: High, Medium, Low \u2192 (view spoiler) [ For a young girl/boy, I would say medium. Like all/most young adult fairy tales there is death... death of a father, horse, soldiers, and some bad men (hide spoiler) ] Heat/Language Level: Rated G, PG, PG-13, R, NC-17 \u2192 (view spoiler) [ Rated G IMO. \u201cSex\u201d is not mentioned. A female character named Selia addresses her secret partner as Love or Lover. The most risqu\u00e9 thing said by Geric to Ani is \u201cI don\u2019t think your geese care much for your betrothed, and I hope they hadn\u2019t any plans on sharing our bed\u201d (hide spoiler) ] HEA \u2192 It\u2019s YA! (view spoiler) [ YES (hide spoiler) ] Page Turner? \u2192 yes/no I\u2019m a little old for this book, but I still enjoyed it Would I recommend? \u2192 I wish I had a little girl to read to at night. Good for all age groups, even us \u201cold people\u201d can enjoy a YA fairy tale from time to time. However, this would be an extra special read between and mother and child. Would I re-read? \u2192 Probably not, not until I have my own little ones. Would I read more from this author? \u2192 Maybe. It\u2019s not the author, it\u2019s her target audience. I think I\u2019m just a little too old. Still glad I read it. \u201cI, Geric-Sinath of Gerhard, declare that you're beautiful and you're perfect and I'll slay any man who tries to take you from my side. Goose girl, may I kiss you?\u201d AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more As of right now, 6,990 fans have given The Goose Girl the top 5-star rating, and only 62 have given it a 1-star. I guess I'm going to be #6,991, because I obviously have found a new treasure :DD This is the first book I've read since finishing the epic saga The Bridei Chronicles , and I was relieved to have something less perplexing. I generally love fairy-tale retellings, as long as they dont go too \"realistic,\" which is pretty much the modern euphemism for \"trashy.\" I'd actually forgotten about As of right now, 6,990 fans have given The Goose Girl the top 5-star rating, and only 62 have given it a 1-star. I guess I'm going to be #6,991, because I obviously have found a new treasure :DD This is the first book I've read since finishing the epic saga The Bridei Chronicles , and I was relieved to have something less perplexing. I generally love fairy-tale retellings, as long as they dont go too \"realistic,\" which is pretty much the modern euphemism for \"trashy.\" I'd actually forgotten about the \"Goose Girl\" tale, as it never stuck out to me as one of the Grimms' major stories, but I found this book to be a fun but substantial read. I will say, I could have used more character development. I like my villains to be explained, and I kept wondering as to why the villains in this story (including a backstabbing \"frenemy\" who could very well have been Regina George's ancestor) went to the trouble of doing their deeds. Jealousy? Is that it? The perspective followed the main character, Ani/Isi, all throughout and I could have done with a shift to some other characters, just so I could get a better understanding of what they were going through. I really liked Shannon Hale's characters, but on the other hand of that compliment is a bit of a complaint, because I didnt really feel that they were as developed as they could have been. I especially liked Geric, and I agree with lots of other reviewers that he should have had more scenes. But Shannon Hale deserves an award (okay, she deserves ANOTHER award) just for writing a clean, sweet romance. I mean, maybe I read between the lines too much, but I was picking up on some very very decent messages about romance, and that's always a plus :D So if you like YA books where both characters have vice-like behavior, this book is NOT for you :P Cant wait to start Enna Burning . THANK YOU for recommending it, RAE! ...more A fairy tale fantasy novel full of imagination and creativity, The Goose Girl could easily fit in with Brother Grimm's or Hans Christian Anderson's work. With a wonderful main character and vibrantly-described settings, it's a book no reader will ever forget. This is a book so wonderful I wish I had written it myself! Although some criticize the heroine as being too passive, I think Hale does a good job of showing that she is dealing with such intense grief and shock that it takes her time to recover and assert her personality. I just loved it! what can I say. I didn't know I was getting myself into yet another series, but here I am, in one. Looking forward to the next three. While I have read a few books by Shannon Hale before (Book of a Thousand Days and Austenland), I was truly blown away by The Goose Girl. Hale took a simple Brothers Grimm fairy tale, and created a fully realized world around that structure, truly making it her own. Shannon Hale's writing is lush and gorgeous, filled with stunning, vivid descriptions. Both Kildenree and Bayern become vivid, real places under her pen, and the simplest descriptions of forest trees or flowers bloom to life. On multip While I have read a few books by Shannon Hale before (Book of a Thousand Days and Austenland), I was truly blown away by The Goose Girl. Hale took a simple Brothers Grimm fairy tale, and created a fully realized world around that structure, truly making it her own. Shannon Hale's writing is lush and gorgeous, filled with stunning, vivid descriptions. Both Kildenree and Bayern become vivid, real places under her pen, and the simplest descriptions of forest trees or flowers bloom to life. On multiple occasions through the course of this audiobook, I actually stopped, paused my iPod, and thought over the phrase that I had just heard, marveling how a simple decision of word choice and word order managed to paint such a scene in my mind. I wish I had read this book when I was in middle school. Ani is a strong, determined female character, one who saves two kingdoms from war and also manages to thwart a cadre of men and a devious 'friend' scheming to take her life. Yet she's unsure of herself, shaky in her self-belief, and not at all confident that her meager powers are enough to allow her to either fit in or triumph over the forces pushing against her. It is quite refreshing to witness a character express that lack of confidence and to see a loner gradually opening up to people around her and finding a place in a world that welcomes her, exactly as she is. The fourteen year old me who was so anxious about acceptance would have found a kindred spirit in Ani. One of Hale's strengths in this book is pacing, as the action never drags, yet we still witness quiet moments of Ani settling in, exploring, and finding her place in her new environment and new role as a Goose Girl. On the surface, the plot of this books seems as if it should be so simple: Mutiny occurs, Ani becomes a Goose Girl, Ani regains her crown. As easy as one, two, three. Yet so much more happens within the lines of this novel, as twists and turns, complications and missteps occur, leading Ani to test her strength in new ways and to form new relationships. In addition to Ani, the supporting characters are quite well-developed and three-dimensional. I was especially impressed with the character of Conrad, the Goose Boy whose jealousy of Ani's popularity with the fellow child laborers leads to unforeseen consequences. This character could so easily have slipped into the token antagonist role, yet Hale managed to make his motives complex and relatable. The villians, most notably Selia and Ungolad, are menacing, yet appear in the flesh rarely. Hale uses the threat of their plots and Ani's fear to great effect, creating a sense of foreboding throughout the story. The Goose Girl was my first experience with an audiobook produced by Full Cast Audio, which used multiple actors to play various roles, rather than just one narrator taking on the voices of all the novel's characters. The result is a lush, fully realized production that feels more like hearing a stage production of a story than listening to an audiobook. The music is interspersed at the perfect moments, with lilting tunes accompanying Ani's communion with nature and animals, and tones of foreboding announcing the approach of danger. The main narrator Cynthia Bishop's voice is authoritative and commanding, grabbing the listener's attention and blazing a path through Hale's tale. Erica Lustig, the voice of Ani, has a sweet, melodious voice, one that seems ideal for communication with both nature and animals. Her intonation, while slightly timid, is able to gain enough strength to depict Ani's transformation in the last half of the novel. I was also impressed with the work of Emily Holgate, the voice of Enna. Holgate perfectly portrays the strong, assertive character whose support and friendship gives Ani the courage to forge ahead and the acceptance to be herself. I am looking forward to continuing with the next book in Shannon Hale's Books of Bayern series, Enna Burning. I would hand this to fans of Robin McKinley, Tamora Pierce, or Gail Carson Levine. ...more I love fairy tales and I will read anything which even remotely resembles a fairy tale in appearance. It is because of this same reason that I could never pick out a favorite from the lot but I will tell you one tale that is not in my list of favorites and that is Goose Girl . I have always found this story frustrating and scary regardless of how many times I have read it. The easily bullied, weak princess is the frustrating part and the talking horse head constitutes the scary part. Over the yea I love fairy tales and I will read anything which even remotely resembles a fairy tale in appearance. It is because of this same reason that I could never pick out a favorite from the lot but I will tell you one tale that is not in my list of favorites and that is Goose Girl . I have always found this story frustrating and scary regardless of how many times I have read it. The easily bullied, weak princess is the frustrating part and the talking horse head constitutes the scary part. Over the years even though the story has faded somewhat from my mind the feeling I had about this tale stuck with me. So with a title like Goose Girl and knowing fully well that this book is a retelling of that same old story I approached this one with much apprehension. To be frank Good reads rating of 4.25 stars was the only thing that persuaded me to overcome this apprehension (Not having read any of the author's other books) . Having finished reading the book I can honestly say that Shannon Hale's Goose Girl is everything a fairytale retelling should be. Other than the fact that I loved the book, this book also made me love the original fairy tale. If a retelling can make a person fall in love with the original then that definitely is something special. The book answers all the questions that made the fairy tale less likable and that too in a satisfying and believable manner. My main problem with the original story was how easily the princess stepped aside or was forced to step aside for her lady-in-waiting. Because in the original story there was only the princess and the maid sent on the journey to the neighboring kingdom. But in Shannon Hale's tale when Princess Ani is shipped off to a neighboring kingdom as a bride, her scheming entourage mounts a bloody mutiny to replace her with a jealous lady-in-waiting, Selia, and to allow an inner circle of guards more power in the new land. Barely escaping with her life, Ani disguises herself as a goose girl as a way to regain her identity and claim what is rightfully hers not knowing that her little ruse can help her in more ways than one. Other than the refreshing take on the story I thoroughly enjoyed the author's writing style. The engaging plot and the medieval fictional land settings has done it's part to set the mood but it is the heroine Princess Ani that stole the show and made this book a worth while read. At first when she was introduced I would have bet she was going to turn in to one of those weak, whiny, irritating characters that you could never sympathize with. Then as the story progressed her character changed from one of those \"too stupid to live heroines\" to a likable character with enough strength and courage to do what is right no matter what the odds are. I especially liked that aspect of her character which enabled her to let go of the things she treasured not letting them define her. The talking horse head part which I found scary in the original story was transformed in this book to something magical and praise worthy. Ani's ability to talk to animals and birds and her power of controlling wind made the story all the more interesting and way they manifested in the hands of Shannon Hale fascinating. The Q&A session in the end with the author is insightful and is a very useful addition to the book. Definitely a book for the re-reading shelf. ...more I thought that this was a sweet book. I learned from this book that often times it's easier for people to be their best self if unrealistic expectations aren't on them. Ani was born the first princess of Kildenree. She didn't open her eyes for 3 days until her Aunt came and sung songs and told stories of the old days when people could talk with the animals and some even with the elements. She spends her time with her Aunt and learns to speak with the swans and other birds. Her mother dislikes thi I thought that this was a sweet book. I learned from this book that often times it's easier for people to be their best self if unrealistic expectations aren't on them. Ani was born the first princess of Kildenree. She didn't open her eyes for 3 days until her Aunt came and sung songs and told stories of the old days when people could talk with the animals and some even with the elements. She spends her time with her Aunt and learns to speak with the swans and other birds. Her mother dislikes this and finds it unfit for the Crown Princess and sends her Aunt away. Ani doesn't fit in with all of the royalty as much as she tries. Her father dies and immediately following his death she is told that she will be married the the Bayern prince and not become queen of Kildenree. She is dissappointed because she has been trying so hard to be what is expected of her but she leaves for Bayern, over a 3 month trip. On the way their her lady in waiting, Selia, turns on her and has her loyal guards killed. Selia plans on taking on Ani's identity and becoming Queen of Bayern. Ani escapes and lives with a forest family until she make her way to Bayern and becomes the tender of the kings geese and hence becomes the Goose Girl. She learns to speak with the geese and conceals her identity by keeping her blonde hair always covered and dying her eyebrows. She makes some friends and also meets a handsome man named Geric while tendig the geese. She tells one of her friends, Enna, her story. She has some run ins with Selia's guards, who need her dead if Selia is going to be queen, but is saved by her new friends. The day comes for Selia to be married and Ani plans as attending as her little sister. Selia's guards catch her but not before the King of Bayern hears of her arrival. Selia and her guards are left alone with Ani and the truth comes out. Geric, who we now know is the prince, and his father are hiding and overhear everything. There is a fight but Ani prevails. I love the message of this story... \"In layer upon layer of detail a beautiful coming-of-age story emerges, a tale about learning to rescue yourself rather than falling accidentally into happily-ever-after.\" -The New York Times Book Review ...more \u2026 And they lived happily ever after, *le sigh.* Reading Goose Girl is a breath of fresh air especially after the types of books I\u2019ve been reading lately. It did take me a while to warm up to Ani. She was an absofreakinglute doormat\u2026even the geese bruised her up! I could not get my mind around how pitifully she was treated. Despite that, I still enjoyed this. It\u2019s a sweet fairytale fantasy. Who doesn\u2019t love a good fairy tale? A princess, a prince, and a betrothal. Except it wasn\u2019t that simple as \u2026 And they lived happily ever after, *le sigh.* Reading Goose Girl is a breath of fresh air especially after the types of books I\u2019ve been reading lately. It did take me a while to warm up to Ani. She was an absofreakinglute doormat\u2026even the geese bruised her up! I could not get my mind around how pitifully she was treated. Despite that, I still enjoyed this. It\u2019s a sweet fairytale fantasy. Who doesn\u2019t love a good fairy tale? A princess, a prince, and a betrothal. Except it wasn\u2019t that simple as that. The beginning in particular had me very curious about her family. Yeesh, cut throat, weren\u2019t they? But Ani, being the graceful princess that she was, accepts the lot she was dealt with. Again, it was this meek acquiescence that had me iffy about her, (that\u2019s even with her initial protests\u2026 because she still did as told!) Then there\u2019s the fact that it is immediately apparent who will cause all her problems. But her complacence makes her blind\u2026 another reason for me to gnash my teeth. BUT, it\u2019s a fairytale fantasy\u2026 so I went on.. And on and on\u2026 and finished it with a smile on my face and little sigh. So even all those misgivings, Ani\u2019s story still drew me in. Too sweet to pass up! Read! ...more While reading the Goose Girl, I felt I was in the middle of a fairy tale. I should admit right now, I am a very big fan of re-told fairy tales, doesn't matter if it's the 100th re-telling of Cinderella or an off-beat tale, like the twelve dancing princesses. If it's a re-told fairy tale, chances are pretty huge that I am going to read it. Read the rest of my review here A delightful and well thought-out take on the old fairy tale, this is one of my favorite fairy tale novels. Shannon Hale has created a detailed world in which some of the odd details of the original fairy tale are reworked and make much more sense. Hale has made the story into a strong coming-of-age tale with heart and humor and a little romance. This book shouldn't be missed by anyone who likes novelizations of fairy tales.<---C>Razo</---C>", "Title": "The Goose Girl"},
