{"Comments": "It's Kind of A Great Book In respectful acknowledgment of Vizzini's suicide on 19 December 2013, I have cleared my rating of his book and removed my review. There is no more tragic occurrence in a family's life than the suicide of one of its members. My most heartfelt sympathy to Vizzini's wife and young son. I came across this movie the other day on TV and watched it. I didn't think the movie was great or anything, but I thought the idea of the story was interesting. So I decided to give the book a try.<---F> I loved this book</---F>. It is about teens and it discusses suicide, sex,<---M> drugs and more</---M>, but it is a great book with an important message. Sometimes you have to get all the way to the bottom of the barrel before you can get back to the top. Craig is like a lot of teens nowadays. Overly stressed out. He is I came across this movie the other day on TV and watched it. I didn't think the movie was great or anything, but I thought the idea of the story was interesting. So I decided to give the book a try. I loved this book. It is about teens and it discusses suicide, sex, drugs and more, but it is a great book with an important message. Sometimes you have to get all the way to the bottom of the barrel before you can get back to the top. Craig is like a lot of teens nowadays. Overly stressed out. He is very smart and has a seemingly bright future ahead of him until he decides that being a teenager is simply too much to handle and he contemplated just how easy it would be to commit suicide. Luckily, instead, he calls a suicide hotline, but then he shocks his family when he checks himself into a mental hospital. Only problem is that the teen ward is closed down so he is forced to live with the adult patients and meets an interesting group of people. This was a very touching story and one that everyone who has ever had depression can probably relate to even if just a small amount. It's an inspiring story, because it shows that there are ways to get help. The self discovery that Craig goes through is amazing. He learns that no matter how bad you think your life is, there is always someone worse off. Of course we all know that, but we may forget it sometimes, especially when we are at our low points and throwing ourselves pity parties thinking things couldn't be worse. The characters were all well written, and I really feel the fact that the author had been in a mental hospital before showed through the vivid descriptions of the place and types of people you may see there. I'm not sure why, but I feel like the fact that he is a now successful person and openly admits that he had a stay in a mental hospital makes this book stand out to me in comparison to most other YA books that deal with mental illness. It's one thing to write about these things even having well researched the subject, but it's entirely different writing about them after experiencing them firsthand. Also, I thought the writing in general was good. I love when an author can write about such a sad subject, but make humor shine throughout. This book is about suicide, but it's not depressing. I laughed a few times as well. The only parts I didn't enjoy were the romantic ones. It seemed totally contrived. The chances of two teens put into an adult ward and falling in love are just so bad. The best part about this story was Craig's upbringing. This wasn't the typical suicide story where they kid had it rough, and in the end couldn't take it. He had a great family with supportive parents and a beautiful little sister. He was quite privileged, and I'm glad that author was able to show that mental illness does not discriminate. Even the most together person in the world can suddenly become depressed and the stigma attached to mental illness is something that infuriates me. Even though this book was made into a movie it doesn't seem too popular so maybe I'm in the minority. Maybe it just isn't well marketed. I have no idea, but I would recommend this book for sure. ...more Young Adult books seem to have a few formulas: divorce, unrequited love, death of a parent, self-transformation, and as of late... vampires. Oh... and angst. Usually always angst . Sometimes these can be written quite loverly. As with the few that have been jostled around GR lately, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close , The Book Thief , I Am the Messenger ... These authors will come along and break, twist, switch it up... make.you.think. And manage to rise above the whole stigma of what it means to b Young Adult books seem to have a few formulas: divorce, unrequited love, death of a parent, self-transformation, and as of late... vampires. Oh... and angst. Usually always angst . Sometimes these can be written quite loverly. As with the few that have been jostled around GR lately, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close , The Book Thief , I Am the Messenger ... These authors will come along and break, twist, switch it up... make.you.think. And manage to rise above the whole stigma of what it means to be reading YA. I think I found another one. <---A>Ned Vizzini</---A>.... I knew nothing of you prior to finding you on the GMBA (<---B>Green Mountain Book Award</---B>) list. And, well... that introduced me to Zusak, Foer, Vowell... So, I jumped in all willy nilly. You didn't disappoint. In fact, you're one of those child prodigies---publishing your first book at 19. He began writing articles for The New York Times Press while still in school and continues to do so, getting an essay published in The New York Times Magazine\u2026.yeah, I hate you. It\u2019s Kind of a Funny Story centers on Craig Gilner, 15. Basic overachiever, two parent household, precocious little sister, privileged. Not someone that I usually bond with. But, the writing is so dead on\u2026 so unpretentious and raw. I loved it. Usually I\u2019d be all \u2018cry me a river, buddy\u2019 but to watch this 15 yr old lose it. (Yes, I don\u2019t put it quite so eloquently\u2026deal)\u2014You really get sucked in. You get to think. How much pressure is there on kids to succeed? Did it start with my generation? I don\u2019t remember the be all end all of my parents having to complete college. I come from a very blue collar situation, my father didn\u2019t even finish junior high\u2026 Yet, it was ingrained in me to get into college and that if I didn\u2019t, I\u2019d be a nobody. A loser. Forget about making anything of yourself. Now it seems that even THAT is not enough. It has to be the right college, with the right grades (93s are average, my friend), you have to have the RIGHT extracurriculars\u2026 etc, etc. Who wouldn\u2019t break down? Craig\u2019s disconnect reminds me of Oskar in Extremely Loud\u2026he has his own terms\u2026 his own language. \u2018Tentacles\u2019 are the \u2018evil tasks that invade life and then jut out into new tasks that lead to new ones that take him away from his original goal -\u2018Cycling\u2019 is when his brain won\u2019t shut down, it repeats each tentacle\u2026 which leads to the ultimate failure. A \u2018fake shift\u2019 is when you think that these issues are being resolved, but it\u2019s only a front\u2026 a temporary reprieve. \u2018Anchors\u2019 are the items that hold him down\u2026 keep him safe. He finally decides that he\u2019s going to take the big leap off the Brooklyn Bridge\u2026that this is the ultimate anchor, but instead finds himself self admitting into a psychiatric ward in a local hospital. Here is where Craig shines, finds his voice. And it\u2019s not overtly formulaic. You see yourself in this fucked up kid\u2026you see how he can relate to amphetamine heads and transvestites and how he can reach back and truly find his anchor\u2026which happens to be making \u2018brain maps\u2019--- drawing the streets, highways, bridges, traffic circles, chaos, order, symmetry, beauty that\u2019s in all of us, wrapped around firing neurons and SSRIs and warped brain cells. It\u2019s truly beautiful. It\u2019s funny, typical teenage boy shit and a joy to read. Sounds strange, but---not. Because this is life and it can suck and it can hurt and it can overwhelm and make you feel minuscule and that\u2019s okay. Because every now and then \u2018okay\u2019 can be your anchor and maybe there will be less days when it will suck. When we realize, like said in this book \u2018life can\u2019t be cured, but it can be managed.\u2019 We hope. ...more Take a good helping of \"The Perks of Being a Wallflower,\" add a heaping spoonful of \"Girl, Interrupted,\" and stir in a dollop or two of \"Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close,\" and you'll have a good idea what you're going to get with \"Funny Story.\" A week after the author, Ned Vizzini, was discharged from his own stay in the psychiatric ward of a New York hospital, he began the tale of depressed teen Craig Gilner. On the point of suicide, Craig checks himself into the hospital, hoping to come to Take a good helping of \"The Perks of Being a Wallflower,\" add a heaping spoonful of \"Girl, Interrupted,\" and stir in a dollop or two of \"Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close,\" and you'll have a good idea what you're going to get with \"Funny Story.\" A week after the author, Ned Vizzini, was discharged from his own stay in the psychiatric ward of a New York hospital, he began the tale of depressed teen Craig Gilner. On the point of suicide, Craig checks himself into the hospital, hoping to come to find hope beyond his depression. Inside he gains perspective on his illness, his current lifestyle, and his own talents and strengths. Smoothly written with a strong voice, \"Funny Story\" is full of vivid, real characters. What rings less true is Craig's almost-miraculous recovery and ability to gain a new lease on life after only five days. However, the fairly unbelievably happy ending was welcome after the flood of depressing books that seem to be hitting the charts. ...more ETA: Ned Vizzini's death makes me feel sick to my stomach with sadness. Rest in peace, so sorry he lost his fight. The plot of this book -- teenage boy admitted to mental hospital for five days to treat anxiety/depression -- is super close to my heart and I wanted to love it, but the execution reminds me way too much of John Green. Those of you who love John Green: this is a recommendation! But personally, there are few types of characters that annoy me more than the dorky boy whose main ambition ETA: Ned Vizzini's death makes me feel sick to my stomach with sadness. Rest in peace, so sorry he lost his fight. The plot of this book -- teenage boy admitted to mental hospital for five days to treat anxiety/depression -- is super close to my heart and I wanted to love it, but the execution reminds me way too much of John Green. Those of you who love John Green: this is a recommendation! But personally, there are few types of characters that annoy me more than the dorky boy whose main ambition* is to touch the inside of a girl's vagina (and who eventually does, because he's a dork but not SUCH a dork that the hot girl won't let him fool around with her anyway). There are other things in life, boys! * : OK, Craig has other ambitions. This may be a bit of an exaggeration. Still. Vagina touching gets a lot of mention. Actually, it's not the teenage quest for sex that bugs me so much as the fact that in this book, like in Looking for Alaska , the first person boy protag is lusting after and objectifying a girl that specifically does not want to be objectified and is, in fact, made miserable when she is. Gross. At least (and I never thought I'd say this) in John Green's version, there's some acknowledgment and shame felt about this. It's unfortunate that that aspect of the book sucks, because it all comes to a very good ending. Vizzini's been in a psych ward, so he knows what the Shift from unwellness to wellness feels like upon becoming stabilized enough to leave -- it's wanting to [verbs! wherein any verb = a metaphor for \"live\"] rather than wanting to nothing. Yes. This is exactly the difference between depression/anxiety and NOT depression/anxiety. I don't know if that's a difference you can understand so acutely if you haven't experienced it, to be happy even to want to pee or to go grocery shopping or to commute to work or whatever. Also: I love Jimmy the schizophrenic. He is the best. Even though two stars is a little stingy for this one, one of those full stars is for him. He deserves it. ...more While I could relate to this book on some levels... there was something about it that didn't quite gel with me. Was it the character? Not at all. I actually kind of like Craig. Was it the plot? Nope. I actually books that deal with psychological issues. Was it relatable? It was. It dealt with depression quite a bit. Even had suicidal thoughts at some point. So this was not it either. But I had a big problem with how the story was told. It dragged out on a lot on the first part of the book. It was on While I could relate to this book on some levels... there was something about it that didn't quite gel with me. Was it the character? Not at all. I actually kind of like Craig. Was it the plot? Nope. I actually books that deal with psychological issues. Was it relatable? It was. It dealt with depression quite a bit. Even had suicidal thoughts at some point. So this was not it either. But I had a big problem with how the story was told. It dragged out on a lot on the first part of the book. It was only at about 45% when something really started happening. In short it was a bit boring. I'd have to say the movie was better paced than this. ...more \u201cEverybody has problems. Some people just hide their crap better than others.\u201d Craig Gilner is a fifteen-year-old Brooklynite who\u2019s spent the past year waiting for \u201cThe Shift\u201d to take place. Up until a year ago he wasn\u2019t an insomniac, could hold down more than four bites of food, didn\u2019t break out in cold sweats, could finish his sentences, and didn\u2019t have cycling thoughts about committing suicide. Through a series of events, Craig finds himself in the adult wing of the local psychiatric hospital w \u201cEverybody has problems. Some people just hide their crap better than others.\u201d Craig Gilner is a fifteen-year-old Brooklynite who\u2019s spent the past year waiting for \u201cThe Shift\u201d to take place. Up until a year ago he wasn\u2019t an insomniac, could hold down more than four bites of food, didn\u2019t break out in cold sweats, could finish his sentences, and didn\u2019t have cycling thoughts about committing suicide. Through a series of events, Craig finds himself in the adult wing of the local psychiatric hospital where he meets a slew of different patients. Although each has a different version of events leading up to their admittance, they\u2019re each attempting to cope with life. A semi-autobiographical coming-of-age novel, the postscript mentioned the following: \u201cNed Vizzini spent five days in adult psychiatric in Methodist Hospital, Park Slope, Brooklyn, 11/29/04-12/3/04. Ned wrote this 12/10/04-1/6/05.\u201d Something that sticks in my mind is that Vizzini was only a couple of years older than me. Ironically, he lost his battle with depression and committed suicide in December of 2013, nine years after he was hospitalized. It\u2019s a really sobering thought. It\u2019s also why the last paragraph of the book seems so sad. He obviously really wanted to live, and saw himself thriving on into the future. It doesn't elude me that this book had similarities to Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar, also semi-autobiographical, and much like Vizzini's life, hers ended much too early. ...more I refuse to believe that writing a book from the perspective of a fifteen year old boy is any excuse for the level of transphobia, sexism, homophobia, and classism that defines this book. I kept trying to excuse the narrator--he's fifteen, he's sheltered, he's a stupid kid who wants to have sex with every female-bodied person he encounters (minus the poor ones, duh)--but that's not fair to fifteen year old boys. I was tolerating the book until Craig, our hero, refers to a human being as \"he/she/ I refuse to believe that writing a book from the perspective of a fifteen year old boy is any excuse for the level of transphobia, sexism, homophobia, and classism that defines this book. I kept trying to excuse the narrator--he's fifteen, he's sheltered, he's a stupid kid who wants to have sex with every female-bodied person he encounters (minus the poor ones, duh)--but that's not fair to fifteen year old boys. I was tolerating the book until Craig, our hero, refers to a human being as \"he/she/it\" and that was probably the high point of his encounter with a trans-woman. (When she got human pronouns at all, it was always, always \"he.\") She was hypersexualized, devious, lying, manipulative, and disconcertingly hot. But it's OK because Craig is our HERO. He knows he's flawed (as he continuously reminds the reader, he has to be to end up in a psychiatric treatment facility--but, of course, his depression is his only real flaw and the cause of all of the ways in which he treats other people terribly) but he becomes the Savior of Six North, helping the other patients with his penis and his privilege. (I say this at the risk of sounding like an angry feminist. But, well, I'm a feminist and this book made me angry.) From the sexual assault survivor he teaches to love again (though his continued advances are clearly unwanted and unneeded), to the poor man he saves with the shirt off his own back, all of the other patients in Six North LOVE Craig and are sure to tell his parents what a great kid he is. The ones that don't love him are just too messed up to see what a great guy he is. Somehow, amid all the Craig-worship, we get a few moments to laugh at the silly conflict in the middle east and their silly religions. That's fun! Vizzini manages to pack in everything that could possibly mortify and still save room for tedious writing and contrived plot devices. I would say it was a waste of time, but a little bit of self-righteous indignation can be nice from time to time. Unfortunately, this was more than a little bit of self-righteous indignation. ...more I read this in less than 24 hours. All I can say is, that it's still such an important read and one of all-time favorite books. I recommend it to everyone. Depresyona girmi\u015f bir karakterin hikayesi ancak bu kadar e\u011flenceli olabilir san\u0131r\u0131m. Okumadan \u00f6nce kapa\u011f\u0131n\u0131n tatl\u0131l\u0131\u011f\u0131na vurulsam da akl\u0131mda hep \"bu kitap bayar m\u0131 ki ya, depresyon bu sonu\u00e7ta?\" diye bi d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnce vard\u0131. Ama Craig'i o kadar sevdim ve okurken onu o kadar iyi anlad\u0131m ki... Tuttum ben bu kitab\u0131 :') On be\u015f ya\u015f\u0131ndayken intihar\u0131n e\u015fi\u011fine gelmek art\u0131k \u00e7ok normalle\u015fti san\u0131r\u0131m. \u00c7\u00fcnk\u00fc hepimiz \"ba\u015far\u0131ya\" odaklan\u0131rken mutlulu\u011fu es ge\u00e7ti\u011fimiz bir d\u00f6nem ya\u015f\u0131yoruz illa ki. Ka\u00e7 ya\u015f\u0131nda olursan\u0131z olu Depresyona girmi\u015f bir karakterin hikayesi ancak bu kadar e\u011flenceli olabilir san\u0131r\u0131m. Okumadan \u00f6nce kapa\u011f\u0131n\u0131n tatl\u0131l\u0131\u011f\u0131na vurulsam da akl\u0131mda hep \"bu kitap bayar m\u0131 ki ya, depresyon bu sonu\u00e7ta?\" diye bi d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnce vard\u0131. Ama Craig'i o kadar sevdim ve okurken onu o kadar iyi anlad\u0131m ki... Tuttum ben bu kitab\u0131 :') On be\u015f ya\u015f\u0131ndayken intihar\u0131n e\u015fi\u011fine gelmek art\u0131k \u00e7ok normalle\u015fti san\u0131r\u0131m. \u00c7\u00fcnk\u00fc hepimiz \"ba\u015far\u0131ya\" odaklan\u0131rken mutlulu\u011fu es ge\u00e7ti\u011fimiz bir d\u00f6nem ya\u015f\u0131yoruz illa ki. Ka\u00e7 ya\u015f\u0131nda olursan\u0131z olun, eminim okurken siz de Craig'le kendiniz aras\u0131nda bi benzerlik bulacaks\u0131n\u0131z. Ve okuyun bu kitab\u0131. MUTLAKA :') ...more 4 1/2 stars. For such a moving and detailed look at an important subject, I can't believe how little I've heard about this book. I was hooked from the first sentence: \u201cIt\u2019s so hard to talk when you want to kill yourself.\u201d <+++>It's Kind of a Funny Story</+++> is a brutally honest contemporary following a teen who has a mental illness - yep, it's another one of those. But out of the thousands already published, this one stood out because it was so well written. My hat goes off to Mr. Vizzini. He gave an hones 4 1/2 stars. For such a moving and detailed look at an important subject, I can't believe how little I've heard about this book. I was hooked from the first sentence: \u201cIt\u2019s so hard to talk when you want to kill yourself.\u201d <+++>It's Kind of a Funny Story</+++> is a brutally honest contemporary following a teen who has a mental illness - yep, it's another one of those. But out of the thousands already published, this one stood out because it was so well written. My hat goes off to Mr. Vizzini. He gave an honest and informative description of exactly what mental illness - in this case, depression - does to a person. He showed the inner workings of fifteen year old Craig's mind, how depression slowly crept up on him and pressure built from places he'd never expected, such as school and his friends. Craig is afraid of what he calls the \"Tentacles\" overwhelming him. If he gets low grades, he thinks this will set him up to get into a bad college and get a bad job and thus fail at life. He's constantly anxious and over thinking things. After one particularly bad night, Craig gets admitted into a psychiatric hospital. The story follows Craig before he became depressed - what he calls \"the time when he was happy\" - and after, showing his days in the hospital and the friends he makes there who are just as screwed up as he is. This was a very emotional story. I can be pretty cold hearted when it comes to these kinds of books, but I found myself tearing up when Craig's mom found out that her son was planning to kill himself. The loving support provided by Craig's family was amazing; I loved the characters and their realistic relationships, the fantastic dialogue that made me crack up, and above all how the people in the hospital were painted as real, no matter what kind of illness they had. Some people think having a mental illness is \"cool,\" a way to stand out, and that saddens me so much. Craig's friend <---C>Aaron</---C> was this way, but the author showed how horrible depression really is. I think this could be a very important book for someone who has never experienced depression. To be able to step into Craig's shoes was eye opening. \u201cSometimes I just think depression\u2019s one way of coping with the world. Like, some people get drunk, some people do drugs, some people get depressed. Because there\u2019s so much stuff out there that you have to do something to deal with it.\u201d ...more It's Kind of a Funny Story isn't my usual kind of book, to be honest. Its synopsis makes it clear from the get-go that it's a book about a character going through some tough times, which isn't usually my thing because I'm of the opinion that we go through enough tough times ourselves without watching or reading about other people having it too, but I have myself gone through depression and I thought, \"Well, here's your chance to read about tough times you actually identify with.\" And weirdly enou It's Kind of a Funny Story isn't my usual kind of book, to be honest. Its synopsis makes it clear from the get-go that it's a book about a character going through some tough times, which isn't usually my thing because I'm of the opinion that we go through enough tough times ourselves without watching or reading about other people having it too, but I have myself gone through depression and I thought, \"Well, here's your chance to read about tough times you actually identify with.\" And weirdly enough, especially for someone who runs out of the room with his index fingers stuck in his ears, screaming \"LALALA, CAN'T HEAR YOU!\", whenever the tragedies of the world are being discussed, I really did connect with Craig and his ordeal with depression. Mostly because despite the theme It's Kind of a Funny Story tackles, it never lets things get on the melodramatic end of the storytelling spectrum, but also because it is one of the most lovely and lighthearted books I have read to this day. Depression is a weird little thing, because you can never really know when or why it started; you can't get tested and be diagnosed with it; you can't have an unsafe encounter with a really bad situation and boom , it's over, you have depression, no way to back out now. Depression is a weird thing that slithers in if you let it, but that's exactly the catch: it's all inside you, inside your head. Not because it's not true, or because you're making it up, but because that's exactly where it lies. I mean, at least this is what I think, I'm not a psychiatrist, a shrink, or anything like that, but from my personal experience, that's how it works. And there was just an immensely helpful sense of relief or, I don't know, vindication, maybe, to read about Craig's time in a mental ward and realize that it wasn't just me who felt that, somebody understood. I mean, of course I know people who have gone through it as well, but for the most part, the way Craig dealt with his issues (or non-issues) was so similar to mine that I was staggered to realize that just as in the end he understood that problems are only as big as we make them to be, so did I. I loved the time I spent inside his head, learning about his passion for map-making, for watching other people play videogames, then for studying hard. I understood him in his self-applied pressure to never waste a second and subsequently wasting all of them, to desperately cling to the things you have and at the same time distance yourself from them. I didn't spend days or weeks reading It's Kind of a Funny Story, just mere 48 hours, but in those hours I laughed, and cried, and felt the chills all over. I read about people with all sorts of problems, from self-mutilation to drug abuse, and despite them not being real and the irrelevancy of my endless sympathy (and empathy) for them, I loved every single one of them. In the end, a book is just a book, but a book can nudge you in the right direction, and sometimes that's all you need. I don't know if I'll ever pick up It's Kind of a Funny Story again, or if I'll ever read another book like it, but I'm glad that, for these brief 48 hours, I felt like I had someone who understood me, and who made me understand that depression isn't this huge black hole you sometimes find yourself being sucked into; depression is just what happens when you forget to live. So live. ...more Despite its overly confident title, I failed to find the humor in It's Kind of a Funny Story . However, there were many things about this book that were, in fact, an absolute joke. I tend to be overly generous with regards to book reviews, so I let Funny Story take three stars. If I could, I would grant it two and a half stars, but that's not an option on Goodreads. And I will admit, there were a few things about the novel that I liked. I suppose I'll start with the good things, else I'll be too wo Despite its overly confident title, I failed to find the humor in \ufeff It's Kind of a Funny Story .\ufeff However, there were many things about this book that were, in fact, an absolute joke. I tend to be overly generous with regards to book reviews, so I let Funny Story take three stars. If I could, I would grant it two and a half stars, but that's not an option on Goodreads. And I will admit, there were a few things about the novel that I liked. I suppose I'll start with the good things, else I'll be too worked-up and frothingly-mad by the end of the criticism to actually say anything positive. The first half of the book was earnest, genuine, and not exactly powerful but definitely memorable--Craig is basically a good guy, and the reader can sympathize (or empathize, depending) with the kid. His friends seem like cardboard cutouts of teenagers (oh, wait, it's not time for negative criticism yet, is it?), but Craig remains fresh and realistic. Craig's descriptions and experiences of chronic depression are pretty accurate, initially. Those good things are heavy outweighed by the bad, however. Firstly, what makes me so mad about the book is its resolution. Craig hooks up with not one but TWO girls during his stay in psychiatric care. That seems a little ridiculous--the hospital sounded more like a four-star hotel than a center of mental health: I mean, a smoking lounge, poker games every other night? Just saying. I expected more formalities, structure, and healing--and became a sort of deus ex machina. Ohoho, teenage boy gets some action, he can't even remember> what it was like to suffer from anxiety! Craig just \"gets better\" almost overnight, which comes as a slap in the face to me. Let me tell you, it really does not happen like that. It also bothered me that Craig's problems seemed to obviously stem from school-related stress, yet this was almost ignored in his treatment. Not that that wasn't a valid cause for his distress; it was just misleading, if the reader did not know any better. Regardless of whether the cause was external or internal, though, I doubt that a teenage fling or two would have \"fixed\" everything. Overall, I was disappointed. There was so much potential--here was a tale of genuine teenage problems that didn't turn the victim into a punch line. Vizzini just had to ruin it by leaving readers with the moral that \"true luv\" and a positive attitude can nullify genuine illness. And to that I say, Vizzini, go perform a physical impossibility. ...more okay, so, i don't know what to say about this book. it focuses on some privileged white dude's depression recovery in the Best Possible Circumstances and ends up, starting in the middle of the book, becoming really, strangely transphobic/transmisogynistic (think \"trans women as deceivers for the male gaze\"), to the point where after our trans lady is bussed out of the novel, the main character decides, 200 pages later, to remind us that his new girlfriend isn't a trans girl, but \"a *real* girl\". okay, so, i don't know what to say about this book. it focuses on some privileged white dude's depression recovery in the Best Possible Circumstances and ends up, starting in the middle of the book, becoming really, strangely transphobic/transmisogynistic (think \"trans women as deceivers for the male gaze\"), to the point where after our trans lady is bussed out of the novel, the main character decides, 200 pages later, to remind us that his new girlfriend isn't a trans girl, but \"a *real* girl\". uh. obligatory uses of the word 'tranny,' yada yada yada, and you have a book that was just...uncomfortable to read. i get how it can make me understand depression in teenagers, but, just...no thanks. ...more Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com Ned Vizzini has a distinct advantage over other authors who write about teen depression, attempted suicide, and the ins and outs of psychiatry--as a teen he was clinically depressed and even spent time in a psychiatric hospital. That experience has allowed Mr. Vizzini to bring to life the kinds of situations that were once largely absent in teen fiction; that of the fact that not all teens are happy, spontaneous, happy-go-lucky youths. For Craig Gilner, gaining Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com Ned Vizzini has a distinct advantage over other authors who write about teen depression, attempted suicide, and the ins and outs of psychiatry--as a teen he was clinically depressed and even spent time in a psychiatric hospital. That experience has allowed Mr. Vizzini to bring to life the kinds of situations that were once largely absent in teen fiction; that of the fact that not all teens are happy, spontaneous, happy-go-lucky youths. For Craig Gilner, gaining acceptance into the elite Executive Pre-Professional High School in Manhattan is not the end of his problems, but only the beginning. All the studying, the cramming, the all-nighters he pulled to get high marks in his old high school and ace his entrance exam now seem mediocre, at best, at his new school. Craig realizes quite early on that he's not brilliant, he's not at the top of his class--he is, in fact, average. For a guy who worked as hard as Craig did, with such obsessive determination, this is a blow not just to his ego, but to his very soul. Craig soon finds himself unable to eat, unable to sleep, unable to find joy in just about everything. As he realizes he's clinically depressed, he tells his shrink--excuse me, psychiatrist--that his only joy in life comes from peeing. Yes, peeing. You go in, you get it done, you accomplish what you set out to do, and you're finished. It's pretty sad that going to the bathroom seems to be the highlight of his day (he even manages to stretch each trip out to about five minutes), but it's also the truth. Dr. Minerva, for $120/hour, is attempting to help Craig figure out exactly why he's depressed and how to overcome it. But Craig no longer thrives on a life of complexity; for him, life is a nightmare. And as his depression leads to thoughts of suicide, he's not even surprised to find that there's an 800 number he can call. And after taking the plunge and calling 1-800-SUICIDE Craig hikes over to the local emergency room at the hospital, where he meets Dr. Mahmoud (who is not a terrorist). From there, Craig is checked into a psychiatric hospital, and he meets a motley crew of patients who, amazingly enough, become better friends to him than the ones he had before he went in ever were. For Craig, being in the hospital might just save not only his life, but his sanity and his will to keep on keeping on. IT'S KIND OF A FUNNY STORY is a great read. Filled with issues that plague a large number of teens today, the author has managed to take sensitive topics and deal with them in a humorous way that never seems disrespectful. A very enjoyable, thought-provoking read. ...more I really cannot describe how much this books means to me. I read it for the first time when I was only twelve years old on a trip to Wisconsin and it helped me come to terms with a situation in my life I really couldn't understand. I had read it many times between that and the last time I read it, sometime last year, when I felt almost exactly like the main character in this book did. I really cannot say in any words how much this book helped me in my life. I hope Ned Vizzini knew how much his bo I really cannot describe how much this books means to me. I read it for the first time when I was only twelve years old on a trip to Wisconsin and it helped me come to terms with a situation in my life I really couldn't understand. I had read it many times between that and the last time I read it, sometime last year, when I felt almost exactly like the main character in this book did. I really cannot say in any words how much this book helped me in my life. I hope Ned Vizzini knew how much his book helped people. I really do. ...more A Synoptic Version of a Review Written but then Deleted. Accidentally This is a book about a kid who thinks about killing himself but doesn't. It is edgy; I mean that there is sex and f-bombs in the book. The characters do drugs too. Kids will like that, some parents will get their closed little minds into a fucking tangle over it. I wrote a whole review and then accidentally refreshed the page and lost it. Oh well. I'm not even going to try to re-write what I had written. Your lose. You missed a A Synoptic Version of a Review Written but then Deleted. Accidentally This is a book about a kid who thinks about killing himself but doesn't. It is edgy; I mean that there is sex and f-bombs in the book. The characters do drugs too. Kids will like that, some parents will get their closed little minds into a fucking tangle over it. I wrote a whole review and then accidentally refreshed the page and lost it. Oh well. I'm not even going to try to re-write what I had written. Your lose. You missed a book report. You also missed me talking about myself in ninth grade and how I related to this passage: \"How long have you had feelings like that, Craig?\" \"Since last year, mostly.\" \"What about before then?\" \"Well... I've had them for years. Just less intense. I thought they were, you know, just part of growing up.\" \"Suicidal feelings.\" I nodded. Dr. Barney stared at me, his lips puckered. What was he so serious about? Who hasn't thought about killing themselves, as a kid? How can you grow up in this world and not think about it? It's an option taken by a lot of successful people: Ernest Hemingway, Socrates, Jesus. Even before high school, I thought it would be a cool thing to do if I ever got really famous.\" I also talked a bit about the kids in Bergenfield, New Jersey who in 1987 killed themselves. This was one town over from where I lived at the time. I didn't add a link to the song \"New Jersey Exit\" by Alice Donut because I couldn't find a version of it online. It is a wonderful song though about an event that deeply affected my childhood. You should listen to it. And other Alice Donut songs because they are really good. The lyrics to the song I was going to link to are as follows: Yeah, Due to acne. Due to heavy metal. Due to Fred and Barney, Wilma and Pebbles. New Jersey Exit Suzy's got the flu. Well, maybe this will clear up her sinuses She's got nothing better to do. You're kids are having a gas (in the garage)(3X) Hah, Hah, Hah, Hah, Hah! Daddy comes home To the kiddie circus. Charlie, get out of that car. Sorry, Daddy got rigor mortis. You're kids are having a gas (in the garage)(3X) Hah, Hah, Hah, Hah, Hah! (What's the use, anyway?) If something's pretty much dead, you might as well shoot it. What will this do to car insurance? How 'bout the family unit? Seven at a time Death extravaganza Little Joe and Hoss Never did this on Bonanza You're kids are having a gas (in the garage)(3X) Hah, Hah, Hah, Hah, Hah! You're kids are having a gas (in the garage)(2X) You're kids are getting gassed That is where I was at when I erased the fucking thing. ...more I\u2019m just going to put this out there, in case you have the preconceived notion - like I did - that this book is supposed to be a hilarious, slap-knee comedy about being a depressed teenager on the brink of suicide: this book really isn\u2019t that funny, and I seriously wish it hadn\u2019t been so desperate to be. To an extent, this book is enjoyable, even credible. Within the first 100 pages of this book, the MC-underdog Greg Heffley Craig Gilner won my heart with his realistic voice, and the portrayal o I\u2019m just going to put this out there, in case you have the preconceived notion - like I did - that this book is supposed to be a hilarious, slap-knee comedy about being a depressed teenager on the brink of suicide: this book really isn\u2019t that funny, and I seriously wish it hadn\u2019t been so desperate to be. To an extent, this book is enjoyable, even credible. Within the first 100 pages of this book, the MC-underdog Greg Heffley Craig Gilner won my heart with his realistic voice, and the portrayal of his suffering, which evoked much empathy. I honestly felt pretty confident that I was bound to adding IKOAFS to my favourites list. In fact, for a while, I thought that literature had a new Holden Caufield to marvel over. Craig\u2019s therapist: \u201cWhat happened when you woke up?\" Craig: \"I was having a dream. I don\u2019t know what it was, but when I woke up, I had this awful realization that I was awake. It hit me like a brick in the groin.\" CT: \"Like a brick in the groin, I see.\" C: \"I didn't want to wake up. I was having a much better time asleep. And that's really sad. It was almost like a reverse nightmare, like when you wake up from a nightmare you're so relieved. I woke up into a nightmare.\" CT: \"And what is that nightmare, Craig?\" C: \"Life.\" CT: \"Life is a nightmare.\" C: \"Yes.\u201d You see what I mean? What sucks is that once Craig booked himself into the hospital for rehab, most of his authentic qualities flew right out the window. What began as a mostly-serious/moderately-playful book changed too quickly to revolve around a boy who forgot all about his very life-altering problems because people made him eat every meal, empathized with him, and because a pretty girl paid attention. The book felt forcefully light; instead of focusing on the depression that is taking over Craig\u2019s life, the final 75% of the book centers on the relationships Craig has and makes, and seems to leave the biggest, heaviest, most important part of the story behind to give way to not-so-funny one-liners and bad, bad jokes. I appreciate that Vizzini recognizes that depression is often a hard subject to take, and that entertainment is a great tool to lighten the mood, but I was extremely put-off by the flippant way he treated such a serious topic, and also how he alienated his MC \u2018s voice, making everything within the first quarter of the book seem like some big scam. It should also be said that the last 50 pages of the book are basically one huge lecture given by preachy doctors and even Craig himself, and that the resolution (view spoiler) [or lack thereof (hide spoiler) ] leaves much to be desired. Aside from the too-tidy way Craig\u2019s story was handled, Vizinni\u2019s writing isn\u2019t very tight - not only did slang take over nearly every conversation, but basic sentences seemed off-beat and awkwardly phrased. What also provided some eyebrow-raising was the depiction of Craig\u2019s love interests. Neither Nia nor Noelle\u2019s relationships with Craig were developed, nor were they based on anything else than lust, and it was really hard to enjoy any scenes featuring either girl. Every single relationship Craig made in this book seemed shallow as a puddle, though fortunately there was no DPS going on. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ll be reading any more Ned Vizzini, despite how much promise the beginning of this book held. Something about his writing style has really, really grated on me, to the point where I could hardly help myself from giving up on this book. Maybe it's me being over-critical, or the fact that I know first-hand about depression and that I don't, in any way, think there's anything funny about it, but there's something about this book that has very seriously rubbed me the wrong way, whatever its source may be. Still, IKOAFS is a pretty popular reading choice amongst teens \u2013 so much so that it\u2019s even been adapted into a movie \u2013 so I wouldn\u2019t say not to give it a chance, since you might feel differently than I do. 2/5 stars ...more A beautifully delivered novel - something I would definitely read again in the future. - We follow the story of a teenage boy named Craig. Craig is an extremely ambitious young man who has a very clear idea of what he wants for his future and how he is going to get there. Unfortunately the build up of pressure and stress surrounding school causes Craig to slip into a very depressed state. With circumstances not seeming to get any better and the onset of suicidal thoughts, Craig makes the decision A beautifully delivered novel - something I would definitely read again in the future. - We follow the story of a teenage boy named Craig. Craig is an extremely ambitious young man who has a very clear idea of what he wants for his future and how he is going to get there. Unfortunately the build up of pressure and stress surrounding school causes Craig to slip into a very depressed state. With circumstances not seeming to get any better and the onset of suicidal thoughts, Craig makes the decision to check himself into the local psychiatric hospital. We then see how Craig builds friendships with the diverse group of people who are living in the same ward as him and how he starts upon the journey to getting better. - As Craig befriends this new group of people he slowly begins to make realisations about his life and his hopes for the future. He rekindles his love of art and through his creative drawings his mental health begins to improve. Come the end of the novel he has some big decisions to make on love, life and his plan for the future but this now doesn't seem so daunting. - Craig was a very humorous character who I really grew to love over the course of the novel. I found the way his school friends dealt with his depression to be somewhat frustrating at times although I think this gave the novel a very realistic feel. The friends he makes during his time in the ward are fantastic - really funny and they clearly have a big impact on Craig. - I would recommend this to anyone who has an interest in mental health. I have also made a video on my youtube channel ( youtube.com/shoutame ) where I speak about many other books that relate to mental health if that takes your fancy! 4 out of 5 stars! ...more A lot of people have summarised this already, so I won't bother. I started off really liking the book because Craig is a character that I found easy to relate to, as I have depression and some similar thoughts to his. At some point, however, it fell kind of flat, especially when Noelle was introduced. At that point it became all about sex and how much he wanted it, and sex was treated like the key to overcome his depression...all wrong. At that point, the characterisation seemed to flop a bit, t A lot of people have summarised this already, so I won't bother. I started off really liking the book because Craig is a character that I found easy to relate to, as I have depression and some similar thoughts to his. At some point, however, it fell kind of flat, especially when Noelle was introduced. At that point it became all about sex and how much he wanted it, and sex was treated like the key to overcome his depression...all wrong. At that point, the characterisation seemed to flop a bit, the writing became dull and it was a pain to finish the book. I was bothered how, at the end, he's pretty much all better. That's not how it works, especially since some of the threads of Craig's thoughts (ie. realising that he liked being in a structured community where food was handed to him) were dumped by the wayside and not dealt with because he was too busy thinking about genitals. I would be able to excuse that kind of ending for the sake of the plot if it weren't for that, because it felt really inconsistent, it felt like an easy fix. In the end, it gives the impression that mental illness for teens can be just dealt with, it's an ephemeral event easily solved by being more relaxed with your life when, in reality, it's a lot more complex. In the end, I am glad that this book makes depression a more easily approachable subject for teens, I am just disgruntled with the execution and the way the theme is treated. ...more I'd prefer not to review this in detail. Suffice to say that what began as a smart and touching narrative ended up feeling too forced and flippant as the story progressed beyond the halfway mark. It is extremely saddening that the author, who chose to end this book with the very optimistic word \"Live\" , couldn't make himself do just that. Depression, when it well and truly hits, is seldom a funny story. 2.5 EDIT: I've just watched the movie! Or what my eyes managed to let in, anyway. I think I stopped after the first half hour or less. I mean, I disliked the second part and surprise surprise, the movie eats up the first essential part and starts with the second one. I must admit the movie fucked the book very well. And I thought the book was boring? The movie is much worse! And much more boring, ugh. I'm not going to rate this book for now, possibly forever. Because this might be the most co EDIT: I've just watched the movie! Or what my eyes managed to let in, anyway. I think I stopped after the first half hour or less. I mean, I disliked the second part and surprise surprise, the movie eats up the first essential part and starts with the second one. I must admit the movie fucked the book very well. And I thought the book was boring? The movie is much worse! And much more boring, ugh. I'm not going to rate this book for now, possibly forever. Because this might be the most confusing, boring yet beautiful book I'd ever get to read. Craig is a hardworking 15-year-old that wants to join Executive Pre-Professional High School, the thing is, the school needs some serious hard work and that's something Craig doesn't mind. Up until he actually goes to school. The work's too hard for him and he sees everybody doing extra work while he can't even finish the essential stuff. He starts feeling down, puking, stops eating and everything doesn't feel right. But Craig's a good guy. And a very confused one, he suddenly decides to off himself, but then he has a change of heart and calls the Suicide Hotline, and checks himself in a hospital. We then follow up to his story and how he healed. Or started healing. I won't rate this because I want to give it two stars, but I want to high rate it, but it doesn't deserve three stars, either. I think I'm in no place to rate this because..because it's just great. But it's great when you stop reading it. Craig is a very good person, the way he was confused was honest, straightforward. A perfect portrayal to a teenager who gets under a lot of stress. The way he thinks, just beautiful. And I'm speaking as a person who can't relate to him, but knows that many people do. For all I know, I've always been like Aaron, not with the shallowness or the assholism, but with the I-don't-study-but-I-get-high-marks, but that didn't stop me from understanding Craig very much and liking him. It felt so accurate. And the best thing about it is that he's honestly confused, he loves himself and he gives himself another try, another shot. It was plain amazing. But that's it. The first half. The first half was good, boring yes, but good. The thing about this book is that you have to stop. Stop and think Because the story won't seem half as great if you didn't do so. Here I was, liking it a bit but finding it very boring, until I took a break and actually thought about it and God knows I..liked it. And thinking about it got me sad, because I can't believe someone who helped people like this killed himself, it's so painful to think about and I pray and will pray everyday for God to forgive Ned Vizzini, such a pure person. May his soul rest in peace. The other half, however, was just awful. I'm talking generally, of course there were many good parts and quotes, but overall it just felt too boring for me. Not mentioning how unnecessary the transsexual sex addict existence was. We only meet her and yes Craig, it's a her not He/She/It, anyway, we only meet her at the very beginning of his stay at the hospital, then she goes. I don't know why she existed in the first place. And unlike the first part, I couldn't stop and think about it. The characters unfortunately felt flat and one dimensional, especially Noelle, the one Craig has hormones for. I hated the insta-love, and Noelle annoyed me beyond belief (Craig too) but I understood very well where they came from. Alas, I reached a part (last 44 pages) where it was such a struggle to finish this book. I, without exaggeration, had a voice in my head yelling EEEEEEND! EE-EEEND PLEASE JUST EEEEEND! and I felt angry that I felt this way because it is a..umm..uh..a good book. It is but it's just...I.... It didn't help that the writing style was terrible very annoying sometimes. I'm quite sad at how many times the book annoyed me. And I wish it was just less boring. I mean, it was supposed to be funny, apparently. I didn't laugh and maybe that's why I find it too boring. But it's still uh,..good. Kind of. The first half. And realistic. Very realistic. ...more 5/5 2016'n\u0131n ilk favorisi kesinlikle bu kitap! Yorumu i\u00e7in: http://kronikokur.blogspot.com.tr/201... \"I'm going to be here until I'm cured?\" \"Life is not cured, Mr. Gilner. Life is managed\". Vediamo un po'. In Italia, Moccia a parte, il romanziere acclamato che scrive per adolescenti e viene invitato a parlare nelle scuole \u00e8 d'Avenia. Tizio che non ha fatto altro che prendere una storia vera sentita da supplente e trasformarla in un libricciolo per gente stupida. Adolescenti stupidi. L'America, oltre a Chbosy e al suo The perks of being a wallflower, ha anche Ned Vizzini. Ned Vizzini ha veramente \"I'm going to be here until I'm cured?\" \"Life is not cured, Mr. Gilner. Life is managed\". Vediamo un po'. In Italia, Moccia a parte, il romanziere acclamato che scrive per adolescenti e viene invitato a parlare nelle scuole \u00e8 d'Avenia. Tizio che non ha fatto altro che prendere una storia vera sentita da supplente e trasformarla in un libricciolo per gente stupida. Adolescenti stupidi. L'America, oltre a Chbosy e al suo The perks of being a wallflower, ha anche Ned Vizzini. Ned Vizzini ha veramente vissuto cinque giorni in un ospedale psichiatrico. Su questa esperienza ci ha ricamato una storiella molto caruccia per i ragazzi. Una storiella con una base triste (ragazzo malato di depressione), ma con un percorso che vuole solo farci capire quant'\u00e8 importante scegliere di vivere la propria vita. \u00c8 chiaramente impossibile trovare in un ospedale psichiatrico tutto ci\u00f2 che non si \u00e8 riusciti a trovare nella vita. Gli amici, l'amore. La propria vocazione professionale. Infatti non credo nel realismo di questo libro (e del rispettivo film che ho visto prima), credo nel suo messaggio. E il messaggio \u00e8: anche se fuori c'\u00e8 un mondo e una realt\u00e0 con cui non riusciamo a fare i conti, dobbiamo almeno provare a superare questa barriera, perch\u00e9 dopo non vorremo pi\u00f9 smettere di vivere. Vivere e tutti quegli altri verbi che facciamo nostri quando decidiamo di non buttarci dal ponte di Brooklyn. Magari avremo bisogno di un aiuto per farcela. Ma non dobbiamo rifiutare l'aiuto degli altri. Non bisogna sempre pensare che lo facciano per compassione. A volte vogliono davvero aiutarci. Comunque, detto ci\u00f2, Craig e Noelle sono tenerissimi. Vero, sono influenzato dal fatto che al posto di Noelle io vedo Emma Roberts, ma c'entra poco. Noelle \u00e8 una grande figa ed \u00e8 anche dolcissima. I hug her one more time and pull her down to the bed. And in my mind, I rise up from bed and look down on us, and look down at everybody else in this ospital who might have the good fortune of holding a pretty girl right now, and then at the entire Brooklyn block, and then the neighborhood, and then Brooklyn, and then New York City, and then the whole Tri-State Area, and then this little corner of America - with laser eyes I can see into every house - and then the whole country and the hemisphere and now the whole stupid world, everyone in every bed, couch, futon, chair, hammock, love seat, and then, everyone kissing or touching each other... and I know that I'm the happiest of all of them. Questo libro \u00e8 intenso perch\u00e9 \u00e8 umano. Perch\u00e9 \u00e8 composto dai nostri problemi e da una soluzione metaforica e divertente, facendoci s\u00ec riflettere, ma anche ridere sopra. \u00c8 sempre una buona cosa. Durante la narrazione ricorre spesso il tema del successo, in particolare quello voluto dalla famiglia. Su tantissimi ragazzi e ragazze, sia in America che in Italia - ma soprattutto in America -, viene esercitata una pressione fortissima da parte dei genitori nei confronti dei loro figli, affinch\u00e9 abbiano sempre successo in tutto nella vita. E questi ragazzi, essendo stati cresciuti cos\u00ec, non riescono nemmeno ad andare d'accordo con il pensiero che i genitori potrebbero rimanere delusi dalle loro performance. In questo modo il mondo di fuori non fa che apparirci ancora pi\u00f9 ostile. \"And I didn't want to be part of it,\" she says. \"I didn't want to be part of that world.\" I grab her leaning into me, feel for the first time the soft dimple of her body. \"Me neither.\" She puts her arms around me and we hold each other like that from two chairs, like a house constructed over them, and I don't move my hands at all and neither does she. Insomma, questo \u00e8 il livello medio dei romanzi adolescenziali in America. Nessuno vuole essere il nuovo Holden. Alla fine i temi trattati sono sempre quelli. Per\u00f2 si respira aria di verit\u00e0. Si vede che gli adoelscenti sono diversi da come a volte vengono descritti. E guai a sottovalutare i loro problemi. Perch\u00e9 quella che per un adulto pu\u00f2 essere una cotta adolescenziale, per un ragazzo pi\u00f9 essere una ragione di vita o gi\u00f9 di l\u00ec. Capito? ...more what a way to start 2017. Great story. R.I.P Ned. I am so glad I finally picked this book up. I thought it was so on point when discussing depression and mental health and it was written about in such a real & funny way which I think is massively important. I can imagine this book changing and saving people's lives. **FIVE stars!!** This book is funny, with hilarious characters, and entertaining plot. It ended up in my favorite shelf because of its uniqueness. Most of the time, books that deal with psychiatric problem, it'll be very depressing, but this is very different as it's funny. It has quirky characters that made this book even better. It started out slow, but with enough things happening to keep the reader interested. Then, it picks up and become a lot more interesting. The plot is really good, and **FIVE stars!!** This book is funny, with hilarious characters, and entertaining plot. It ended up in my favorite shelf because of its uniqueness. Most of the time, books that deal with psychiatric problem, it'll be very depressing, but this is very different as it's funny. It has quirky characters that made this book even better. It started out slow, but with enough things happening to keep the reader interested. Then, it picks up and become a lot more interesting. The plot is really good, and unique. ______________________________________ Things I like in this book: 1) The art, and the fact that the cover has a lot to do with the story. I love the unique idea of the art, and I found it very interesting. I really wanted to see it just like in Confess by Colleen Hoover, but there were no art whatsoever which is a shame. I like the idea regardless though. 2) The characters, especially Craig and Noelle. At first I wasn't so sure about Craig because he seemed too nice and couldn't even say 'no' to his friends. But then I liked him more as we read on. 3) The fact that there is a lot of character development happening slowly. It's not the type of book that we only read about the characters sick, and then fast forward after they're well. It also make the reader see how Craig became a better slowly, and found out what he like to do in life. 4) The writing. It's very hilarious, and I found myself wanting to read more of this book. Stuff I didn't life: 1) Nia! God I wanted to punch the bitch in her face. I didn't even understand what Craig liked about her. Ugh!! 2) Aaron because he's a bad friend. _______________________________ I also wanted to read more about Craig and what happened after he was released into the world. I wanted to read about his life after few years, and how his relationship with Noelle will develop. However, I love this book regardless. Main Hero: 4.5stars. Main Heroine: 4 stars. Plot: 5 stars. Ending: 4.5 stars. ...more Um livro totalmente otimista mas, ainda assim, muito profundo. Uma leitura que eu recomendo pra quem acha que \"depress\u00e3o \u00e9 frescura\". Essa hist\u00f3ria mexeu muito comigo e estou muito feliz por finalmente ter lido esse livro.", "Title": "It's Kind of a Funny Story"},
