{"Comments": "\"I never knew a girl to have such gumption,\" [Mom would] say. \"But I'm not too sure that's a good thing.\" -- <+++>Half Broke Horses</+++> I loved this book! It's a true-life novel about Walls' grandmother,<---M> Lily Casey</---M>, who had an amazing life. She was born in 1901 in a dugout in Texas, and learned about ranching from her father. At 15, she left home to be a teacher in a one-room schoolhouse in Arizona. She was also an accomplished horsewoman, she knew how to repair cars and she learned how to fly a plane. Li \"I never knew a girl to have such gumption,\" [Mom would] say. \"But I'm not too sure that's a good thing.\" -- <+++>Half Broke Horses</+++> I loved this book! It's a true-life novel about Walls' grandmother, Lily Casey, who had an amazing life. She was born in 1901 in a dugout in Texas, and learned about ranching from her father. At 15, she left home to be a teacher in a one-room schoolhouse in Arizona. She was also an accomplished horsewoman, she knew how to repair cars and she learned how to fly a plane. Lily reminded me of my own grandmother, who also had a lot of gumption and who could teach you a thing or two about life. There were so many good quotes in the book, but one of my favorites is from when she started college: \"I wished I could take every course in the curriculum and read every book in the library. Sometimes after I finished a particularly good book, I had the urge to get the library card, find out who else had read the book, and track them down to talk about it.\" Lily Casey is the kind of character who stays with you long after you've finished the book. What a woman! Update: I finally read The Glass Castle, and even though Walls wrote that first, I'm glad I read Horses first because it gave the story of her grandmother, and then Castle is about Walls' mother. There are some references to Lily Casey in Castle, and I appreciated them more having already read Horses. So if you're new to Walls, I would recommend reading Horses first. ...more If you've read The Glass Castle by <---A>Jeannette Walls</---A>, and wondered about Rosemary's lack of maternal instincts and caring, this book will help explain why she was the way she was. Told in first person, with Jeanette's grandmother, Lily, as the central character, the novel is strewn with facts and stories handed down through family members to Jeannette. Not as compelling as The Glass Castle , it is, nevertheless, a book well worth reading. Lily is a most unforgettable character, and the time frame a If you've read The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls, and wondered about Rosemary's lack of maternal instincts and caring, this book will help explain why she was the way she was. Told in first person, with Jeanette's grandmother, Lily, as the central character, the novel is strewn with facts and stories handed down through family members to Jeannette. Not as compelling as The Glass Castle , it is, nevertheless, a book well worth reading. Lily is a most unforgettable character, and the time frame and geological regions she lived in adds to the enjoyment of the story. Now that I have read this tale a second time, it is evident to me that children have to make their own way in the world, on the path that is right for them. Rosemary could nor more be like Lily wanted her to be than a mule could be like a stallion. But it also does not excuse the lack of stability and provisions that permeated the lives of Rosemary and Rex and their children. That Jeannette and her siblings prospered and succeeded illustrates just how much of Lily's character and personality they inherited. ...more Jeannette Walls's original intent was to write a book about her mother Rose Mary's childhood on an Arizona ranch. Rose Mary convinced her that it was grandmother Lily's life story that needed to be told. Having read the book, I have to agree. What a life! Hard times and hard work in the early 1900s, trying to scratch out a life on ranches in Texas, Arizona, and New Mexico. Lily lived on Route 66 when it was still a dirt road. Walls chose to call the book a novel because she got all the stories s Jeannette Walls's original intent was to write a book about her mother Rose Mary's childhood on an Arizona ranch. Rose Mary convinced her that it was grandmother Lily's life story that needed to be told. Having read the book, I have to agree. What a life! Hard times and hard work in the early 1900s, trying to scratch out a life on ranches in Texas, Arizona, and New Mexico. Lily lived on Route 66 when it was still a dirt road. Walls chose to call the book a novel because she got all the stories secondhand, from Lily's daughter Rose Mary. However, I'm shelving it as a nonfiction memoir. It reads like a memoir, and the stories are true. Walls wrote it in the first person, as if <---C>Lily Casey Smith</---C> were telling you her life story. After awhile I got so into it that I forgot it wasn't really Lily speaking.<---F> Walls is such a gifted writer</---F>. The stories come alive and move along so easily. If you've read The Glass Castle , you'll also appreciate the insight Half Broke Horses gives about how Rose Mary's early life made her the unconventional mother she later became. If you're not the type to normally enjoy biographies, I recommend giving this book a try. It's relatively short and never boring or overdone. ...more One way to really get me pissed off is to tell me that the past was innocent and simple. What you really mean when you say that is that your childhood was innocent and simple, which is probably also debatable, but at least seems fair from a nostalgic standpoint. The farther we look back to our childhoods, the more innocent life seems, and so things that happened before we were born must be the most innocent. No. Not true. People have always been just about as fucked up as we are now. I would say One way to really get me pissed off is to tell me that the past was innocent and simple. What you really mean when you say that is that your childhood was innocent and simple, which is probably also debatable, but at least seems fair from a nostalgic standpoint. The farther we look back to our childhoods, the more innocent life seems, and so things that happened before we were born must be the most innocent. No. Not true. People have always been just about as fucked up as we are now. I would say we\u2019ve never been significantly better or significantly worse. That is why I love honest memoirs and biographies like this one. It is tough to even wrap my brain around the amazing and horrible things people have done and still do, and I want to hear about all of it. As you probably know, Jeannette Walls wrote Half Broke Horses about her grandmother\u2019s insane life. Talk about a real life superhero! The book starts out with a harrowing description of Lily, Walls\u2019s grandmother, saving her little brother and sister from a flash flood by making them climb a cottonwood tree and cling there overnight while the flood subsided. She quizzed them on multiplication tables and trivia to keep them awake through the night so they didn\u2019t fall out of the tree. In the morning, when the children limped home through the residual water from the flood, Walls describes their reunion with their parents: Dad was on the porch, pacing back and forth in that uneven stride he had on account of his gimp leg. When he saw us, he let out a yelp of delight and started hobbling down the steps toward us. Mom came running out of the house. She sank to her knees, clasped her hands in front of her, and started praying up to the heavens, thinking the Lord for delivering her children from the flood. It was she who saved us, she declared, by staying up all night praying. \u2018You get down on your knees and thank your guardian angel,\u2019 she said. \u2018And you thank me, too.\u2019 Helen and Buster got down and started praying with Mom, but I just stood there looking at them. The way I saw it, I was the one who\u2019d saved us all, not Mom and not some guardian angel. No one was up in that cottonwood tree except the three of us. Dad came alongside me and put his arm around my shoulders. \u2018There weren\u2019t no guardian angel, Dad,\u2019 I said. I started explaining how I\u2019d gotten us to the cottonwood tree in time, figuring out how to switch places when our arms got tired and keeping Buster and Helen awake through the long night by quizzing them. Dad squeezed my shoulder. \u2018Well, darling,\u2019 he said, \u2018maybe the angel was you.\u2019\u201d And the story basically just takes off from there. As a teenager, Lily rides her pony five hundred miles across Arizona to teach in a rural school. She moves to Chicago to experience love and heartbreak, and she basically dominates the entire time. The Chicago story is nuts, like every other story in this book. I love it all, and while I was reading it, I just thought, \u201cI KNEW you assholes lived crazy lives. Why isn\u2019t all of history THIS??\u201d Because these are the people I care about \u2013 people like Lily Casey Smith who take life head on and drain every drop out of it. I love that. I want to hear about all of it. I think a couple of things are going on here, though, with the fact that this book wasn\u2019t as much of a hit as The Glass Castle . I think The Glass Castle actually, counter intuitively, benefitted from its off-putting child-molestation cover. It hit the Oprah audience square on with that cover, but then it was actually brilliant, so to the extent the anti-Oprah crowd could be convinced to try it, it was gritty enough for them. We all came to Half Broke Horses , though, with that history and expectation. Like, we wanted to have that, \u201cOMG SO MUCH BETTER THAN I EXPECTED\u201d experience with this book, too. But, since we expected brilliance, it was kind of an impossible standard. So, I really, really loved this book. I think it was at least as good as The Glass Castle , and it presents this incredible American history that I have never known or imagined. Where The Glass Castle was me and my childhood and my life, this was the alien landscape of our past \u2013 of the weirdness, bravery, and cruelty of American genealogy. But, if I had expected that surprise of something genius wrapped in an off-putting cover, and if I had counted on that, I think I would have been a little disappointed, like a lot of people were. I was the opposite of disappointed. This book was spectacular. I know a lot of people treat their own personal histories as though they are a social faux pas. We hesitate to say what makes us who we are and pretend that we magically dropped into our successes and failures, that we were never victims, that we were always proper and never broken. And, while I would never encourage self-indulgence, there is nothing more beautiful to me than personal histories. These stories of floods, horseback rides, men with backup families, backbreaking work, and fierce family loyalty are that magic to me. Those are the magic that dropped us here, and I want to know and understand it all. ...more This is the second book I've read from Jeannette Walls, and for the second time I've really enjoyed her writing. The voice in this story is different from The Glass Castle but equally as engaging, and once again it's all true! It also inevitably makes you wonder (<---B>for those who've read the GC</---B>) how this story ties into the lives of author's parents, and why things turned out the way they did. It's a great escape from the reality we live in now, with computers, text messaging, and the crazy speed at This is the second book I've read from Jeannette Walls, and for the second time I've really enjoyed her writing. The voice in this story is different from The Glass Castle but equally as engaging, and once again it's all true! It also inevitably makes you wonder (for those who've read the GC) how this story ties into the lives of author's parents, and why things turned out the way they did. It's a great escape from the reality we live in now, with computers, text messaging, and the crazy speed at which technology moves us. The first person narrative of Walls' grandmother brings us to another time and place, bringing us alongside her life growing up in the southwest riding horses and living on a ranch, among other things. It's especially gratifying to read about how strong a woman can be, without having to apologize for it. This book ended too quickly, and made me want to know more about all its characters. ...more This book is based on a real person, Liley Casey Smith. She was a tough woman who learnt enough lessons in her life to make her survive in any which way possible. Along the way she learns not to trust people, and with reason. Born in a dug-out in Texas with a anti-authoritarian father with a physical disability, but a very strong mind, and a mother who cared more about lost social standing than physical hard work, Lily quickly learns to make up her own mind and let things happen. Riding five hund This book is based on a real person, Liley Casey Smith. She was a tough woman who learnt enough lessons in her life to make her survive in any which way possible. Along the way she learns not to trust people, and with reason. Born in a dug-out in Texas with a anti-authoritarian father with a physical disability, but a very strong mind, and a mother who cared more about lost social standing than physical hard work, Lily quickly learns to make up her own mind and let things happen. Riding five hundred miles alone on her pony, at the age of fifteen, to become a teacher in a remote town; becoming a rancher with her husband in Arizona; trying to learn to fly; turning a hearse into a school bus; selling illegal moonshine from her home, and taking on the mighty Mormons in her teaching of their children, all adds color and adventure to an impressive CV of life. (view spoiler) [To call yourself a pilot, you must be able to land a plane on a solo flight. She never did that, so cannot really claim to be a pilot, and did not spend enough time in the air either. (hide spoiler) ] \"\u2026if people want to steal from you, they get you to trust them first. And what they take from you is not only your money but also your trust.\" ... \"\u2026people who don\u2019t plan for the future get ambushed by it.\" ... \"Dad followed me, and as I saddled up, he started deluging me with all sorts of advice, telling me to hope for the best but plan for the worst, neither a borrower nor a lender be, keep your head up and your nose clean and your powder dry, and if you do have to shoot, shoot straight and be damn sure you shoot first. He wouldn\u2019t shut up.\" A good read, since I couldn't put it down. However, the second half of the book lost me. Since it is based on the life of the author's grandmother, it can be expected that drama cannot be added where it does not belong. Although it is claimed to be a novel, I personally think it is more of a biographical memoir in fictional form and was written in the first person for more effect. The writing was very well done and can mean a lot to the descendants. Lily had her moments - which undoubtedly demand respect and admiration. It is a memory of a remarkable women with a very creative mind at work during very difficult times. There was enough adventures to keep me riveted to it. The idea of a fictional novel did not work for me. It needed more intrigue, drama, plot and surprise. More character-building should have taken place. A mediocrity crept in that just deflated my enthusiasm for it. It became obvious that a collection of anecdotes and legend was used to construct a story and try to make it work as a novel. The book, if it was written as true fiction, could have been just so much more. The collection of lose memories, combined into this version of a book, had enough creative possibilities and energy behind it to make it something really special. Alas, it did not happen, which takes this version of the tale out of the novel-genre, IMHO. Like Alexandra Fuller, the author uses her family to write and sell her stories. But like Fuller, it can become stale bread, although Fuller never tried to sell it as fiction. The painting of the Arizonian landscape, and their life on the ranch, was excellently done. I really enjoyed it. I don't feel like I have wasted my time with it. It really is a relaxing, interesting, easy-readable story. It was good to meet this strong woman. I liked it (two stars), but adding another star for the excellent writing. Just don't call it a novel. ...more Walls, Jeannette. HALF BROKE HORSES. (2009). **. I seem to have stumbled across a sixth-grade reader masquerading as main-stream fiction. The inside jacket calls this book, \u201cLaura Ingalls Wilder for adults.\u201d I\u2019d call it more, \u201cCalamity Jane: Her Life as Told by Herself.\u201d It is, ostensibly, a partly fictionalized life of the author\u2019s grandmother, Lily Casey Smith, who grew up on a hard-scrabble farm/rance, learning to do what all the other ranch hands did and what her father couldn\u2019t do. Her fath Walls, Jeannette. HALF BROKE HORSES. (2009). **. I seem to have stumbled across a sixth-grade reader masquerading as main-stream fiction. The inside jacket calls this book, \u201cLaura Ingalls Wilder for adults.\u201d I\u2019d call it more, \u201cCalamity Jane: Her Life as Told by Herself.\u201d It is, ostensibly, a partly fictionalized life of the author\u2019s grandmother, Lily Casey Smith, who grew up on a hard-scrabble farm/rance, learning to do what all the other ranch hands did and what her father couldn\u2019t do. Her father was partially physically disabled and also had a speech impediment. The impediment meant that none of his ranch hands \u2013 mostly Mexican workers \u2013 couldn\u2019t understand what he was saying, so, of course, Lily had to give the orders. Her independence stemmed from these early days. She later went on to spend some time in school, but had to drop out because of lack of money. Didn\u2019t matter. She was so smart that she was hired on, at age 15, as an itinerant teacher in some of the smaller towns in the Southwest. After a few years, she decided that that wasn\u2019t going to work. She had an authority complex and resented others, like the parents and school board, telling her what and how she should teach. OK. It\u2019s off to Chicago with her, where she meets a travelling salesman (vacuum cleaners) and gets married. She finds out that he already has a wife and three children in another part of Chicago, and that his \u2018trips\u2019 out of town were really spent with his alternative frau. That\u2019s annuled and she heads out west again. This time, she looks to the future and decides to embrace it. She learns how to drive a car and fly an airplane. She marries a lapsed Mormon and together they set up a business that ultimately fails because of the Great Depression. This goes on and on, but she always manages to come out on top. It\u2019s a Horation Alger (was there a Horatia?) novel on speed. It\u2019s told in short, choppy chapters filled with exploits and \u2018can do\u2019 exhortations that lend themselves to adaptation for the screen as a Saturday afternoon serial \u2013 if they still make them anymore. After a while, I had to lay the book down and go brush my teeth to get all the fuzzies out of my mouth. This was obviously not my kind of book. ...more I am in the midst of this read but I have to say as soon as I read the first page I was invested in what was to unfold. It was a real grabber of a opening. I finished this book and enjoyed every moment of reading. It was so interesting. It covered many changes in the main characters life and it represented how most people will deal with what comes their way, with grace and acceptance. Very good book. This is the story of the author's grandmother, Lily Casey Smith. It is called a \"True Life Novel\" because it is written from the stories that the author, Jeannette Walls, remembers her grandmother telling, rather than from personal papers. Lily comes across as a pretty amazing woman, who is also a survivor. She makes her way through life in a pretty no-nonsense kind of manner, always managing to find a way to make things work, whether it is The Great Depression, or tornadoes and floods. I read thi This is the story of the author's grandmother, Lily Casey Smith. It is called a \"True Life Novel\" because it is written from the stories that the author, Jeannette Walls, remembers her grandmother telling, rather than from personal papers. Lily comes across as a pretty amazing woman, who is also a survivor. She makes her way through life in a pretty no-nonsense kind of manner, always managing to find a way to make things work, whether it is The Great Depression, or tornadoes and floods. I read this entire book, and didn't *not* enjoy it, but I can't say I really liked it. Maybe because Walls was the one creating most of the dialogue and the arcs of the story, as she could remember hearing, but Lily seemed like someone who would not be that enjoyable to spend time with, and who was a little bit to in love with herself. She just seemed unwilling or unable to admit that she was ever wrong, or that anyone else could have ever come up with reasonable solutions. I can see the appeal of this book to lots of people, as Lily is a strong female character, not letting her gender or her financial status hold her back from doing what she sets her mind to doing. But in the end, I was kind of glad to be rid of her. ...more A great story, just as in The Glass Castle. How could a mother and daughter be any different? To me, there were 2 \"sins of omission\" here--one, I really wish Walls would have put a map at the beginning of the book of the west where Lily lived because I'm not familiar with the distances and all the moves back and forth. The other, since it is a work of fiction based on her grandmother's life (vs. a biography) Walls could have extended the book by another 100 pages or so to really emphasize some o A great story, just as in The Glass Castle. How could a mother and daughter be any different? To me, there were 2 \"sins of omission\" here--one, I really wish Walls would have put a map at the beginning of the book of the west where Lily lived because I'm not familiar with the distances and all the moves back and forth. The other, since it is a work of fiction based on her grandmother's life (vs. a biography) Walls could have extended the book by another 100 pages or so to really emphasize some of the remarkable things Lily did, make more of a build up. (copied review) By age six, Lily was helping her father break horses. At fifteen, she left home to teach in a frontier town -- riding five hundred miles on her pony, all alone, to get to her job. She learned to drive a car (\"I loved cars even more than I loved horses. They didn't need to be fed if they weren't working, and they didn't leave big piles of manure all over the place\") and fly a plane, and, with her husband, ran a vast ranch in Arizona. She raised two children, one of whom is Jeannette's memorable mother, Rosemary Smith Walls, unforgettably portrayed in The Glass Castle. Lily survived tornadoes, droughts, floods, the Great Depression, and the most heartbreaking personal tragedy. She bristled at prejudice of all kinds -- against women, Native Americans, and anyone else who didn't fit the mold ...more That was fun! Very much looking forward to author's own memoir. The first person narrator worked so well. I wish Jeannette Walls' biography/novel 'Half Broke Horses' had been available prior to her own biography 'The Glass Castle'. Both of the stories are related and rivetting but 'Half Broke Horses' provides the background for Jeannette's bizarre upbringing. This account of her grand-mother's life living on ranches in west Texas, New Mexico and Arizona is a wonderful tribute to a 'pioneer' who isn't afraid of hard labor--she's one spunky, admirable woman and a real survivor. It would be difficult not to like the writing style of Jeannette Walls. Elegant and down to earth at the same time, she has the ability to strike a chord of familiarity in the reader. She makes it easy to let yourself become a part of the story and to visualize the characters within their element. Loved this story. It\u2019s the simple things in life that can sometimes lead to extraordinary story telling. Ms. Walls gets a four on the GR scale because of her ability to tell a great tale. And for that, It would be difficult not to like the writing style of Jeannette Walls. Elegant and down to earth at the same time, she has the ability to strike a chord of familiarity in the reader. She makes it easy to let yourself become a part of the story and to visualize the characters within their element. Loved this story. It\u2019s the simple things in life that can sometimes lead to extraordinary story telling. Ms. Walls gets a four on the GR scale because of her ability to tell a great tale. And for that, Jeannette truly has the gift. ...more Walls' latest novel skillfully blends her grandmother's rich history with the fascinating history of her day, taking us on a journey from the turn of the twentieth century to the post-WWII era. Readers get a thorough and compelling picture of what life was like for competent, hard-working cattle ranchers in the American southwest during the Dust Bowl days. Unflappable, grandmother Lily Casey Smith lived an adventurous life: a young woman growing up on ranches in wide open spaces (and at various Walls' latest novel skillfully blends her grandmother's rich history with the fascinating history of her day, taking us on a journey from the turn of the twentieth century to the post-WWII era. Readers get a thorough and compelling picture of what life was like for competent, hard-working cattle ranchers in the American southwest during the Dust Bowl days. Unflappable, grandmother Lily Casey Smith lived an adventurous life: a young woman growing up on ranches in wide open spaces (and at various times larger cities) during an ever progressive, modernizing America. Walls shares the tales of Lily's life-long vocation: teaching young children in one-room schoolhouses in remote southwest locales. She dedicates the novel to all teachers, and ties in how her mother Rosemary remembers her own mother: a teacher first and foremost in all aspects of her bold and honest life. \"Half Broke Horses\" is not the autobiographical shocker that \"The Glass Castle\" is, but it is a wonderful story that also happens to enlighten readers about part of America. ...more I recently read the The Glass Castle and decided to pick up this memoir which is a prequel to it. The author tells the story of her grandmother the rancher who was a gritty, resourceful, moxie filled character. The era and lifestyle are so beautifully portrayed; that you almost can sense the heat, dust, and animal smell. I found the book particularly interesting because the author also chronicles her own mother as a child and young adult. In fact, Half Broke Horses ends with Jeannette Wall's bir I recently read the The Glass Castle and decided to pick up this memoir which is a prequel to it. The author tells the story of her grandmother the rancher who was a gritty, resourceful, moxie filled character. The era and lifestyle are so beautifully portrayed; that you almost can sense the heat, dust, and animal smell. I found the book particularly interesting because the author also chronicles her own mother as a child and young adult. In fact, Half Broke Horses ends with Jeannette Wall's birth and sets the stage for her abused and neglected childhood. I did not however find this memoir as gripping as its predecessor. I listen to the audio book as read by the author herself. ...more A well-told story about a gutsy, rock-strong lady with a heart bigger and better than most folks out there...a friend who recommended and loaned the novel to me remarked that she wished that Lily Casey really was a fictional character so that there could be a whole series based on her...I agreed, but at the same time, I almost wish it was a story that was completely nonfiction, a pure biography...I want the true Lily Casey to be as strong and amazing, as solid and determined, as she was depicted A well-told story about a gutsy, rock-strong lady with a heart bigger and better than most folks out there...a friend who recommended and loaned the novel to me remarked that she wished that Lily Casey really was a fictional character so that there could be a whole series based on her...I agreed, but at the same time, I almost wish it was a story that was completely nonfiction, a pure biography...I want the true Lily Casey to be as strong and amazing, as solid and determined, as she was depicted in the novel. Still, every moment of this book is interesting, and the tragic parts are told as Lily Casey would tell them: matter-of-factly. Life isn't easy, but you still have to live it, and in an unconventional way, Lily Casey lived it large. Jeannette Wells is a masterful storyteller--the tidbits about Lily's father and his love of phonetic spelling provide wry bits of humor throughout. A million book reviews will tell you the same and more...so stop mucking about, grab a copy, and go read it. ...more I liked this book a lot. It has great, humorous lines. The author call this a book of fiction because although it is about her grandmother (Lily) and the youth of her mother, the star of The Glass Castle , Jeannette was only eight when her grandmother died. What we are told are the stories repeated by her family. The dialogs are invented. It is these lines that are so marvelous. There is such humor in them and wisdom too. I like Lilly. Here is a woman who was never crushed by hard times. She live I liked this book a lot. It has great, humorous lines. The author call this a book of fiction because although it is about her grandmother (Lily) and the youth of her mother, the star of The Glass Castle , Jeannette was only eight when her grandmother died. What we are told are the stories repeated by her family. The dialogs are invented. It is these lines that are so marvelous. There is such humor in them and wisdom too. I like Lilly. Here is a woman who was never crushed by hard times. She lived out West (Texas, New Mexico, Chicago, and Arizona) through the Depression and World War II. She was a survivor, and a good person too. The story is told in the first person point of view, and the author narrates her own book, so you have to remember that when she says \"I\", she is in fact referring to her grandmother! The book is funny, wise and easy to read. Read it. i think it is even better than her first book! (See the link above.) (I am a little bit disgusted because I wrote another review and then forgot to save it.....so this will just have to do!) ********************************** After about 4 hours of listening: Oh, I do see eye-to-eye with the author\u2019s grandmother (Lily), about whom this book is written! She and her husband are now managing a ranch in, I think, Arizona. Her philosophies on cooking and cleaning: Cooking - keep it simple. I agree. If I quote from the book: What my cooking lacks in variety it makes up for in consistency. No surprises, but no disappointments either! Cleaning - she does a thorough house cleaning every few months. A little bit of dirt won\u2019t kill anyone! These are my mottoes too. So I am thinking, today, I want to go outside, work on my knees in the dirt, pick up pine cones, move rocks, and cut bushes. So why should I clean the house\u2026.. now? It\u2019s gonna get dirty again, so soon! When you clean up outside it all looks so pretty and you see it every time you look out a window. Hmmm, but yeah I will clean inside and then go out. I wish I could be like her! Logically, I guess a cleaned up house is pretty too. And then another time she spends hours making cottage cheese from scratch, which everyone gobbled up in less than a minute. Her response was she would never make that again. What a waste of time! Again I agree! The book is fun, and it is not yet finished. There is humor, and she is so darn optimistic. Yeah, bad things happen, but nothing daunts her. She picks up her feet and goes on. Good attitude. ...more I feel exactly the same way my friend Anna did about this book - I loved it at first but then it kind of went downhill from there. I'd say me and this book parted cordially, not really friendly like. I just finished reading it and that's why I'm using country-bumpkinish language. A note to Ms. Walls -it's not all that charming, is it? This story follows Walls' real life grandmother and her colorful life, living in a dugout out West, being scammed in Chicago, working her way back out West, marr I feel exactly the same way my friend Anna did about this book - I loved it at first but then it kind of went downhill from there. I'd say me and this book parted cordially, not really friendly like. I just finished reading it and that's why I'm using country-bumpkinish language. A note to Ms. Walls -it's not all that charming, is it? This story follows Walls' real life grandmother and her colorful life, living in a dugout out West, being scammed in Chicago, working her way back out West, marrying again, teaching school, driving a hearse, running a ranch, etc. It's a work of fiction since Walls uses her grandmother's voice to tell it and fills in blanks where she needed to. And I can't help feeling like if she was filling in the details couldn't she have made her grandmother more than just a tough as nails cowgirl? The woman had little kindness, little compassion, little interest in anything other than gettin' the job done. How tiring . You know, a story about a hard working lady who doesn't let things get her down and makes a life for herself on the ranch seems like it can't lose. . . and yet it does. Maybe it's because I just read \"Unbroken\" a true life story of adversity where the hero still finds traces of beauty, humor, and humanity in his hard world. Walls' grandmother just paled in comparison. I thought that it was a great story but totally lacking in heart and soul. ...more \u201dYou can\u2019t fence them in, Cause they were born to run and then, You think you\u2019ve got \u2018em where ya want\u2019\u2019em Then they leave you all alone\u2026 Half Broke Horses, They never come back home- Jaida Dreyer\u201d Setting: Texas and Arizona; 1901-1965 Cover Thoughts: These kids look thoroughly unimpressed with everything. Even the cat looks unimpressed. But I really feel that this picture (by Dorothea Lange) captures the hardscrabble, no nonsense feel of the book. Plot: \u201dI asked Dad if he believed that everything tha \u201dYou can\u2019t fence them in, Cause they were born to run and then, You think you\u2019ve got \u2018em where ya want\u2019\u2019em Then they leave you all alone\u2026 Half Broke Horses, They never come back home- Jaida Dreyer\u201d Setting: Texas and Arizona; 1901-1965 Cover Thoughts: These kids look thoroughly unimpressed with everything. Even the cat looks unimpressed. But I really feel that this picture (by Dorothea Lange) captures the hardscrabble, no nonsense feel of the book. Plot: \u201dI asked Dad if he believed that everything that happened was God\u2019s will. \u2018Is and isn\u2019t,\u2019 he said. \u2018God deals us all different hands. How we play them is up to us.\u2019\u201d We first heard about Jeannette Walls\u2019 dysfunctional family in her critically acclaimed memoir, The Glass Castle. It all had to start somewhere though, and it all started with her tough, no nonsense grandmother, the infamous Lily Casey Smith. Born in a dugout in the heart of a Texas ranch, by the time she was five Lily was learning how to break horses with her father. By the time she was fifteen, she was riding 500 miles to get to her first teaching job. In between, she made herself known wherever she went. Her acts as a rancher and horse trainer were legendary in her parts, and she never believed in doing anything half-way. She went ALL the way. She was wild, untamed, gregarious, and practical. Throughout her life that was riddled with hardships, tragedies and despair, she managed to triumph despite all those setbacks to becoming one of the most striking individuals one would ever meet. Here is her story. Wowza, this book was amazing. Jeannette Walls has quickly cemented her place as one of my favorite writers. Her writing style is so easy to follow, practical and to the point. I loved reading about the adventures and shenanigans of her grandmother, and her mother when she was a little girl. You have to admire the resilience of this family to actually survive after all the crap life put them thorough. It transports you to a different time and place where people just didn\u2019t sit there waiting for their problems to be solved. Hell no; they solved it their own damn selves. And they wouldn\u2019t have it any other way, either. Characters: \u201dI never met a kid I couldn\u2019t teach. Every kid was good at something, and the trick was to find out what it was, then use it to teach them everything else. It was good work, the kind of work that let you sleep soundly at night and, when you awoke, look forward to that day.\u201d Make no mistake; Lily Casey Smith was a force to be reckoned with. Whether it\u2019s partaking her love of learning to the students she cared for so deeply, to making business transactions, or sweet talking her way into a deal, Lily was a larger than life, one of a kind woman. And in this book, she\u2019s the star of the show. She\u2019s the type of person who people doesn\u2019t just announces herself politely to the world; she makes sure to make an entrance. Lily wasn\u2019t always dealt the best hand in life, as her father said, but she made the best of every situation and eventually triumphed over it all. There was never a child Lily couldn\u2019t teach. However\u2026 \u201d\u2019I always liked to think I\u2019d never met a kid I couldn\u2019t teach,\u2019 I said. \u2018Turns out I was wrong. That kid is you.\u2019\u201d The one child Lily couldn\u2019t fully control was, ironically, her own daughter, Rosemary. For those of you who read The Glass Castle before reading this book, you\u2019ll understand why. But for those of you who haven\u2019t, Rosemary is like Lily 2.0, but on steroids. And when she\u2019s with her future husband Rex, she\u2019s Lily 2.0, The Incredible Hulk version. Rosemary loved living on the ranch, but she\u2019s not much good at living anywhere else. She\u2019s talented at painting, but gives her teachers hell at school due to poor grades and behavior. She thinks with her impulses, not with her brain. These tendencies will eventually shape her own future, and the future of her daughter Jeannette. Pros: I loved Lily\u2019s passionate love of teaching and loving. As a future teacher, it was so inspiring to hear her words of wisdom, and while I can\u2019t take every piece of advice she gave (cause it\u2019d get me fired), her infectious, never encing enthusiasm for teaching and learning just leaps off the pages. \u201dI wished I could take every course in the curriculum and read every book in the library. Sometimes after I finished a particularly good book, I had the urge to get the library card, to find out who else had read the book, and track them down to talk about it.\u201d I absolutely loved the writing style as well, and I think it suited Lily rather well. It was straight to the point, no nonsense and folksy, just like Lily was. She told people like it was, with no embellishments or flourishes. Cons: None; this book was a treat to read from start to finish. Love Triangle?: Nope! Instalove?: Nope! A Little Romance?: \u201dHe had plenty of good qualities, but the most important one was that I felt I could trust him.\u201d Lily\u2019s first marriage to a so called traveling salesman is a complete and utter disaster, so she\u2019s extremely wary of romance after that. She soon meets her match in Big Jim Smith, a big man with an even bigger heart. They weren\u2019t the overly sentimental type, but they did get along rather well as a couple, in their own weird way. Conclusion: Although this might seem like a crazy thing to say, considering how nutters her family was, I think it\u2019d would\u2019ve been fascinating to grow up a Lily Casey Smith had. I loved reading from her POV, and her real life was so interesting and eventful that it does, in fact, seem like it could come right out of a novel. I think she would have been so proud of her granddaughter for telling her story, especially since it was done so beautifully. Highly HIGHLY recommended!! Read This!: Jeannette Walls wrote this because her readers wanted to know more about her mother\u2019s childhood, based on her previous actions in Walls\u2019 first book, The Glass Castle. Check it out. ...more This book is exactly what it promised to be: a fictionalized memoir, based on the author's oral family history. It follows the author's grandmother's life story, which was a somewhat adventurous one. The story, like all good family histories, has the unmistakable elements of the tall tale (or as my own dad puts it, \"telling lies\") where the truth has been either stretched or embroidered to fill in the gaps or make boring stuff more interesting, or to interpret events as Fate/God's Will. The prob This book is exactly what it promised to be: a fictionalized memoir, based on the author's oral family history. It follows the author's grandmother's life story, which was a somewhat adventurous one. The story, like all good family histories, has the unmistakable elements of the tall tale (or as my own dad puts it, \"telling lies\") where the truth has been either stretched or embroidered to fill in the gaps or make boring stuff more interesting, or to interpret events as Fate/God's Will. The problem for me was that, at the 50% mark (~4 hours of listening), this story wasn't all that interesting, even with all the stretching and embroidering. I could have finished, barely paying attention as I listened while doing housework, etc., but life is just too short and I've got 45 other audiobooks on my acquired-TBR shelf to listen to. So, DNF at 50%. YMMV. This audiobook was borrowed from my local public library. It was read by the author, whose obviously amateur performance was still pretty good, and gave the narrative the ring of authenticity. ...more To be honest, five stars might be too generous, but I was so very impressed by this author's rise to a seemingly unsurmountable challenge, which was to create a worthy, readable, enjoyable book following the HUGE success of her first book. In her first book, \"The Glass Castle\", Ms. Walls gives us a glimpse into her tragic yet memorable family. And while \"Half Broke Horses\" is a novel, it satisfies the voyeuristic curiosity by retelling us tales about her maternal grandmother which seems to defini To be honest, five stars might be too generous, but I was so very impressed by this author's rise to a seemingly unsurmountable challenge, which was to create a worthy, readable, enjoyable book following the HUGE success of her first book. In her first book, \"The Glass Castle\", Ms. Walls gives us a glimpse into her tragic yet memorable family. And while \"Half Broke Horses\" is a novel, it satisfies the voyeuristic curiosity by retelling us tales about her maternal grandmother which seems to definitely lay a foundation for future events. This book is good on so many levels. First, it was a pleasure to read. The prose is poetic without being exhausting. The characters, especially the grand mother, are well defined and fun to know. The story itself tends to drag and get convoluted at times, but is very interesting and provides a genuine sense of what it must have been like to be a girl growing up out West at the turn of 20th century America. I'd recommend it for anyone interested in American history, women's issues and western culture. ...more Not as compelling as \"Glass Castle,\" but this definitely grew on me half-way through. Once you realize that it's not another autobiography (oops) of Walls, you'll probably be disappointed. This is a short-ish read of the life of her mother's mother, Lilly. Walls put together a first-person story of her unique grandmother who lived her hard life on a ranch. Although Walls might have captured the essence of her grandmother, this does not come close to her own memoir. She should stick with what she Not as compelling as \"Glass Castle,\" but this definitely grew on me half-way through. Once you realize that it's not another autobiography (oops) of Walls, you'll probably be disappointed. This is a short-ish read of the life of her mother's mother, Lilly. Walls put together a first-person story of her unique grandmother who lived her hard life on a ranch. Although Walls might have captured the essence of her grandmother, this does not come close to her own memoir. She should stick with what she does best, but nevertheless, I enjoyed it. ...more I really enjoyed this book, it gave you quite an image of what life was like in the rural West back in the early 1900's. And it totally makes me want to re-read the Glass Castle! (No, you don't need to have read it before you read this.) There is one way to sum this book up: WWLCSD! WHAT WOULD LILLY CASEY SMITH DO!? If you liked the Glass Castle by Jeanette Walls you will love Half Broke Horses, the follow up.. err should I say the prequel? I never know which story to recommend reading first, a toss up that of which can only be properly settled by reading both stories and deciding for yourself. The Glass Castle was the author's first book, a memoir detailing her childhood that would give just about anyone who thinks they had it There is one way to sum this book up: WWLCSD! WHAT WOULD LILLY CASEY SMITH DO!? If you liked the Glass Castle by Jeanette Walls you will love Half Broke Horses, the follow up.. err should I say the prequel? I never know which story to recommend reading first, a toss up that of which can only be properly settled by reading both stories and deciding for yourself. The Glass Castle was the author's first book, a memoir detailing her childhood that would give just about anyone who thinks they had it rough a run for their money. Half Broke Horses her second novel, tells the illustrious story of her Grandmother Lily Casey Smith's life, which eventually sets the basis for The Glass Castle. Oddly enough, it is entirely different than her own autobiographical account. Half Broke Horses borders on what I would consider to be a western, the story taking place throughout the American Midwest in the early 1900's. Lilly Casey Smith, a pearl handled pistol packing, iron fisted broad who is best described by the old saying \"they just don't make 'em like they used to\", is more than a character, she's a literary breath of fresh air, her originality making her a true classic. Along with it's counter part The Glass Castle, Half Broke Horses has become a beloved staple in my collection. ...more Picked this up at the airport and blew through 100 pages same day. I am loving the main character so far, her voice cam through loud and clear. This was definitely the right read at the right time kind of book. Also enjoyed having read the Glass Castle, I had a perspective of how Rosemary's life would turn out and such a contrast in the way her mother raised her vs. how she raised her daughter. Well worth purchasing in paperback, I see myself lending this out to lots of folks. Good read!! I am surprisingly enjoying this book that I picked up as a plane-trip book at the Chicago airport. Having heard of the author, it was a whim to read this, her latest memoir/novel featuring thoughts and memories of her grandmother, great grandmother and mother. It's an exceptionally heartwarming read full of pioneer stories and characters. February book club read..... What an enjoyable read. It was unanimous by the group, that we all would loved to have known Lily and the author did a fantastic job of bringing us right into the story. Highly recommended. The writing in Jeanette Walls\u2019s \u2018Half Broke Horses\u2019 is unfussy, unfancy and unfettered. Told in the first person\u2014and fictional\u2014voice of her grandmother, it is by necessity free of high-falutin\u2019 vocabulary. Lily Casey Smith would not have put up with any such nonsense. That\u2019s not to say \u2018Half Broke Horses\u2019 is unpoetic. When Lily\u2019s hopelessly romantic sister Helen ends her own life, the hurt transcends personal grief: \u2018When people kill themselves, they think they\u2019re ending the pain, but all they\u2019re The writing in Jeanette Walls\u2019s \u2018Half Broke Horses\u2019 is unfussy, unfancy and unfettered. Told in the first person\u2014and fictional\u2014voice of her grandmother, it is by necessity free of high-falutin\u2019 vocabulary. Lily Casey Smith would not have put up with any such nonsense. That\u2019s not to say \u2018Half Broke Horses\u2019 is unpoetic. When Lily\u2019s hopelessly romantic sister Helen ends her own life, the hurt transcends personal grief: \u2018When people kill themselves, they think they\u2019re ending the pain, but all they\u2019re doing is passing it on to those they leave behind.\u2019 In another powerful passage, after Lily\u2019s children frolic in the reservoir she and her husband, Big Jim Smith, have built to conserve the commodity most precious to ranchers in Arizona, he tells them the water they played in \u2018had probably been to Africa and the North Pole. Genghis Khan or Saint Peter or Jesus himself might have drunk it. Cleopatra might have bathed in it. Crazy Horse might have watered his pony with it. Sometimes water was liquid. Sometimes it was rock hard\u2014ice. Sometimes it was soft\u2014snow. Sometimes it was visible but weightless\u2014clouds. And sometimes it was completely invisible\u2014vapor\u2014floating up into the sky like the souls of dead people.\u2019 I haven\u2019t read Walls\u2019s \u2018The Glass Castle,\u2019 a more straightforward memoir. Even though it was written first, reading the books in reverse order makes sense chronologically. \u2018Half Broke Horses\u2019 begins with Lily demonstrating her rock solid practicality even as a child by saving the lives of Helen, her little brother Buster, and herself, as a flash flood sweeps through the family\u2019s west Texas homestead on Salt Draw in the Burnt Spring Hills during the early 1900s. Lily\u2019s mother tells her to thank God, but Lily is sure God had less to do with it than her quick decision to get herself and her siblings up a tree. The captivating tale of this indomitable woman ends as her daughter Rosemary, who appears to have inherited less of Lily\u2019s practicality and more of Helen\u2019s (and Lily\u2019s parents\u2019) dreamy nature, marries the wild and hard-drinking Rex. That leads to grandchildren, notably Jeanette, the \u2018little critter,\u2019 and what I presume is the starting point for \u2018The Glass Castle.\u2019 What a life Lily leads in between. Her family leaves Texas for the Hondo Valley in southern New Mexico. Only fifteen, she strikes out on horseback for the town of Red Lake, Arizona, near the Grand Canyon and hundreds of miles away, to take up school teaching. As World War I draws to a close, the job market shrinks, and Lily moves to Chicago, where she learns she was not cut out to be a maid, and marries a cad. Returning to Arizona, she gets official teacher\u2019s accreditation, and runs into a far better man, Big Jim. They struggle to scrape out a living in the Great Depression and raise a family in wide open and demanding country. She busts broncos, sells hooch, operates a long distance cab company with an old hearse, and eventually, Lily finds a hard-won happiness, even achieving her dream of flying a plane. It\u2019s just a great story, and will have particular resonance if you\u2019re at all familiar with New Mexico and Arizona, or if you come from a family of strong and feisty women. Highly recommended. ...more Wow! How would you like to have a grandmother who had been a bootlegger, poker player, mustang breaker and racehorse rider, in addition to filling the more conventional roles of mother of two, schoolteacher, and ranch wife? This book tells the story of the interesting life of the author's grandmother who lived from 1901 to 1968 and spent most of her life in rural areas of New Mexico and Arizona. Anyone who has read the author's previous book, The Glass Castle , will recognize the same spunky spir Wow! How would you like to have a grandmother who had been a bootlegger, poker player, mustang breaker and racehorse rider, in addition to filling the more conventional roles of mother of two, schoolteacher, and ranch wife? This book tells the story of the interesting life of the author's grandmother who lived from 1901 to 1968 and spent most of her life in rural areas of New Mexico and Arizona. Anyone who has read the author's previous book, The Glass Castle , will recognize the same spunky spirit coming through as she tells the story of her Grandmother's life. Jeannette Walls was eight years old when her grandmother died, so she does have some childhood memories of her grandmother's vibrant personality. But of course she depended on stories about her grandmother told to her by her mother and other family members to put this book together. She then used her writing talent to bring these memories and stories together into a very real and believable first person narrative in the voice of her grandmother. The experience of reading this book is much the same as reading an intimate memoir. Therefore I have categorized it for myself as as a memoir. But the author has classified it as a novel since it is based largely on second hand stories and contains speculative internal thoughts of her grandmother. I was impressed with the writing in both this book and The Glass Castle . However, I found this book generally more hopeful and optimistic than the story of the author\u2019s life in The Glass Castle which describes a downward trend of conditions before a happy ending. Those who have read The Glass Castle will find it interesting to observed the childhood development of Jeannette Walls\u2019 mother who we know will later be guilty of infamous behavior as an adult. This book raises some questions in my mind about the variety personalities than can appear within a single family tree. I would like to know what an expert in human behavior can suggest as a reason why some family members described in this book and The Glass Castle are blessed with focused initiative and drive while others seem to lack any ambition at all. As a matter of fact, in the case of Jeannette Walls\u2019 family, there seems to be a pattern of these two contrasting characteristics alternating between every other generation. Is there something about strong willed parents that causes their children to be weak willed? How does one explain brothers and sisters of the same generation who have completely different personalities? Is it genes, birth order or environment? ...more Jeannette Walls\u2019 first book, The Glass Castle, was the best book I read last summer. While that book detailed her life on the road with a pair of nomads as parents, this book told the incredible story of her maternal grandmother, Lily Casey Smith, as she grew up in the tough terrain of the old west. Lily Casey Smith was quite a woman. She could ride horses better than any man, teach any child who entered her classroom, and at a time and place when the tough terrain of the west could kill you at Jeannette Walls\u2019 first book, The Glass Castle, was the best book I read last summer. While that book detailed her life on the road with a pair of nomads as parents, this book told the incredible story of her maternal grandmother, Lily Casey Smith, as she grew up in the tough terrain of the old west. Lily Casey Smith was quite a woman. She could ride horses better than any man, teach any child who entered her classroom, and at a time and place when the tough terrain of the west could kill you at any moment, from sudden flash floods to lightning strikes to horrible droughts, she alone saved her family on several occasions. She is the sort of strong woman that anyone can appreciate these days, but few could really understand back then. Life threw many hardships her way, and she overcame them all with a fierce spirit that is simply inspirational. The chapters in this book aren\u2019t really chapters. The book is composed of short but continuous stories that span the length of Lily Casey\u2019s life, from when she was a young girl living on her parents ranch to the day she married off her daughter, Rosemary (Walls\u2019 mother). While biographical, Walls wrote this book based on family stories passed down to her, mainly from her mother, which is why this book is listed as a \u201ctrue-life novel\u201d instead of a \u201cbiography.\u201d After reading The Glass Castle, I found it interesting to see how Rosemary\u2019s childhood contributed to the kind of woman (and more importantly, mother) that she turned out to be. In a way, I felt like Walls\u2019 was trying to justify her mother\u2019s dismal parenting skills by showing the kind of woman she was raised by. While it was very, very interesting to compare the two books, I don\u2019t feel as though this book would be any less intriguing without having the background of The Glass Castle. Altogether, the book truly offers a glimpse of another era and another lifestyle. I found the book thoroughly addicting and hard to put down. One of the things I loved most about the book was the first person narration: it really gives the reader a good sense of what kind of a person Lily was. Another thing I really enjoyed was the pictures. I\u2019ve always loved old pictures, and to be able to place them with different scenes in the Lily Casey\u2019s life was very interesting. ...more", "Title": "Half Broke Horses"},
