{"Comments": "There are two stupid things about this book, neither have to do with the writing. The writing is good,<---M> the story is original</---M>, I highly recommend this book.<---F> Let's address the stupid things</---F>. The name is stupid. It is like a garage band was after a clever name. There are no sheep in this book, there is no wool in this book. There is one tiny insignificant piece where a character is knitting but she isn't even using wool, she knits with cotton. Given the subtitles are all knitting related (unravel, There are two stupid things about this book, neither have to do with the writing. The writing is good, the story is original, I highly recommend this book. Let's address the stupid things. The name is stupid. It is like a garage band was after a clever name. There are no sheep in this book, there is no wool in this book. There is one tiny insignificant piece where a character is knitting but she isn't even using wool, she knits with cotton. Given the subtitles are all knitting related (unravel, cast off etc) I think the book should have been called \"knitting\" and then the book would have never sold a single copy. I shall rename the book for the author SILO. Hereafter I shall refer to the book as such... Because it is a much better name that will actually appeal to the target market. The second stupid thing about SILO (okay WOOL but my name is better) is that it is serialised into individual books. The author asks at the end of this omnibus if the reader would rate and review each book separately. As far as books/stories/novellas go only WOOL1 and WOOL 3 really stand alone. The others are just parts in a novel. They are also all the size of novellas not novels, making this omnibus edition about the size of a book. Here is my advice to the author. Just sell the omnibus edition, ebook users can read a sample anyway, the $6 price tag is very reasonable for the whole book. In fact because I didn't realise it was a series of novellas I bought the first part plus the omnibus which was silly of me. Perhaps good for the authors pocket but it doesn't endear me toward him. None of that has anything to do with the novel. The novel was original and highly interesting. Finally a novel that I don't think I could flippantly surmise in a paragraph or two. Usually I do like to give a summary of the novel but I won't in this review as I think there are lots of refreshing little things about the novel that are enjoyable to discover while reading, plus a few good places where you can say \"oh wow I didn't see that coming\". WOOL is a good little dystopian novel. The type that leaves you thinking about it for days. The type that creeps back into your mind months after you have read it. It has a fairly original concept that kept me thinking. I thoroughly enjoyed it and recommend it to all lovers of dystopian fiction. Despite complaining about the way it has been serialised I am hoping the author has lots more little stories about this world coming. ETA: Before you comment. This review has been around for almost two years, and it has spawned a wonderful bunch of friendly people who laugh and joke in the comment section - many (most?) of whom completely disagree with me. Please read the comments (even the first page or two). You don't want to be that douche who thinks he is the first person in 500 comments to think to inform me that wool was used for cleaning, or that is was a metaphor. I disagree with the importance of either as a reason for naming the book WOOL, and if you read even a few of my comments you will find lots of reasoning. Enjoy the community, but don't be the dude that makes us snogger (yes, so crazy is this littler community that we even coined our own word!!). ...more This is the review for the entire Wool pentalogy (my new favorite word, btw). Wool introduces us to a postapocalyptic world where survivors of whatever disaster that made the outside uninhabitable huddle underground in a giant \"silo\" that houses hundreds of people. As we can predict, the disaster was man-made (*). (view spoiler) [What we may not immediately suspect is that there are several more dozen of similar silos around (hide spoiler) ] (*) \"You Maniacs! You blew it up! Ah, damn you! God damn This is the review for the entire Wool pentalogy (my new favorite word, btw). Wool introduces us to a postapocalyptic world where survivors of whatever disaster that made the outside uninhabitable huddle underground in a giant \"silo\" that houses hundreds of people. As we can predict, the disaster was man-made (*). (view spoiler) [What we may not immediately suspect is that there are several more dozen of similar silos around (hide spoiler) ] (*) \"You Maniacs! You blew it up! Ah, damn you! God damn you all to hell!\" - courtesy of \"Planet of the Apes\" (I give credit when it's due!) Left - what a silo looks like, in case you are agriculturally challenged, like me. Right - apparently people already live in the underground missile silos. No shit. Even speaking about the outside has become taboo, and breaking this taboo results in exile to the toxic outside, where - for reasons unknown to most - the condemned take time to clean the silo \"windows\" before their death, and the survivors inside can enjoy the toxic views for a few more years. For a long time, the Silo has been functioning like a well-oiled machine until we witness a confrontation between a strong-willed young woman who is not afraid to dig through the secrets of this shelter/prison and an equally strong-willed official who for reasons of his own prefers a status quo. The question stands - what is preferable: safety and security or truth and potential devastation? And the answer to that one is not that easy. This story began as a standalone novella and was subsequently expanded into 4 more volumes (with more potentially to follow, but seems that this particular story arc is complete). The first part has a bleak and haunted, almost vintage sci-fi feel to it. The sequels are more action-packed and touch upon this world's politics (which do not detract from the story). All together they make a fun and enjoyable read. The plot remains tight throughout and all the storylines are compelling. The end may be a bit rushed, but it is still satisfying. The characters are well-developed and multidimensional. Due to originally unplanned expansion of the story, the protagonist <---C>Juliette</---C> does not take center stage until the third part, but she quickly and effortlessly becomes the natural center of the story. She is an awesome heroine - rational, practical, level-headed, strong-willed, courageous, tough, and outspoken. She is good with machinery and kicks ass. She is a good friend. In short, she is cool, and I want to be her BFF now. The story is well-written and a page-turner. Worth giving it a shot. 4.6 stars - rounding up to 5 with clear conscience. Edit September 2013: 3.5 stars - a skim-through a year later showed me its flaws, or maybe I became more critical. Who knows? [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Forget Wool. This should have been called Forge . Writing that's a power-punch to the gut. Direct, slow build of heat, singeing as it suddenly roars into flame. A world that feels solid, heavy, hard-edged, soldered with characters that are heated and molded into something new. This isn't knitting a scarf so much as forging a steel chain. I absolutely love the character of Juliette, determined, essentially elemental, a person that rocks my character world. I love how all her metaphors are mechanical Forget Wool. This should have been called Forge . Writing that's a power-punch to the gut. Direct, slow build of heat, singeing as it suddenly roars into flame. A world that feels solid, heavy, hard-edged, soldered with characters that are heated and molded into something new. This isn't knitting a scarf so much as forging a steel chain. I absolutely love the character of Juliette, determined, essentially elemental, a person that rocks my character world. I love how all her metaphors are mechanical ones, problems and solutions both. Even though I'm completely tool-impaired, her thinking was relatable, a clear schematic of sense. \"But as Bernard's footsteps receded... she felt a new resolve steel her nerves. It was like encountering a rusted bolt that refused to budge. Something about that intolerable stiffness, that reluctance to move, set Juliette's teeth on edge. She had come to believe that there was no fastener she culdn't unstick, had learned to attack them with grease and with fire, with penetrating oil and with brute strength\" (p. 132). But as organized and mechanistic as Juliette is in her world, by no means is she limited in her range of emotion: \"She had made the same choices as an adult, to love without sanction, and so her hypocrisy was more keenly felt\" (p.137) Howey has a gift for understated prose, and the writing was one of pleasures of the book. With clear, straightforward language he captures subtlety of emotion and action. The funeral scene just about made me weep: \"But then, the lowering of the body and the plucking of ripe fruit just above the graves was meant to hammer this home: The cycle of life is here. It is inescapable. It is to be embraced, cherished, appreciated. One departs and leaves behind the gift of sustenance, of life... We are born, we are shadows, we cast shadows of our own, and then we are gone. All anyone can hope for is to be remembered two shadows deep\" (p.158) I absolutely loved all the little connections linking the sections. I was particularly fond of the shadow imagery and the chain imagery. A moment in the uprising solidly hit the connection: \"It startled Knox, this sudden link to a mysterious past. And it wasn't that terribly long ago, was it? Less than two hundred years? He imagined, if someone lived as long as Jahns had, or McLain for that matter, that three long lives could span that distance. Three handshakes to go from that uprising to this one\" (p.321) One of my only complaints is (view spoiler) [ how easily everyone in the rebellion made the adjustment to the mental gymnastics of having been manipulated, and their innovation--the guns and bombs, in particular, seemed odd in a culture that seemed to be lacking them (two sheriffs per 30 plus floors?). And being so ready to believe in Juliette's discovery. I also had to wonder at the lack of agorophobia in going outside. But I was willing enough to believe and it soon smoothed over. (hide spoiler) ] Sophisticated in its ethics and philosophy. Although I expected something unusual given the buzz, I was still astounded at what I found. While it is not a novel I would read again and again (that's what Kate Daniels is for), it's powerful and worth a second read. Thoughts on the Omnibus: Wool: Stunning in its character development. Introduces the psychology of the people in the intimate space through the story of the sheriff and his dead wife. Romantic, tragic, doomed; truly a hint of Romeo and Juliet. Wool Two, Proper Gauge: Compelling mix of character and plotting. Mayor and Deputy find renewal during the search for a sheriff. Using the climb gives a terrific tour of the physics and politics of the silo without infodump. Wool Three, Casting Off: Juliette takes center stage, struggling in isolation in her new job. Powerful discoveries mean the pattern starts to come together. Wool Four, The Unraveling: The overarching structure clarifies, like being able to see a map zooming out. Delicious ending line of kickassitude. Wool Five, The Stranded: Action packed tension. Delicately balanced characterization means no villains here. And I can tell you beyond a shadow of a doubt that I will never go cave/wreck diving. Five dust-smudged and elusive stars. Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0... [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I don't get the hype. If you'd judge a book by its rating on Goodreads and Amazon, you should consider Wool to be a science fiction miracle - the vast majority of Goodreaders gave it 5 stars, and on Amazon it currently holds an astonishing 3,740 five star reviews - with new ones appearing every day. Wool seems to be a prodigious child of a next Asimov or Heinlein, destined to last for decades and inspire generations of readers and writers. What's even more interesting is that Wool began its life I don't get the hype. If you'd judge a book by its rating on Goodreads and Amazon, you should consider Wool to be a science fiction miracle - the vast majority of Goodreaders gave it 5 stars, and on Amazon it currently holds an astonishing 3,740 five star reviews - with new ones appearing every day. Wool seems to be a prodigious child of a next Asimov or Heinlein, destined to last for decades and inspire generations of readers and writers. What's even more interesting is that Wool began its life as a short, self-published novella, Wool , which so excited the readers that the author quickly published the next four parts, finally gathering them all in this omnibus. Film rights have already been sold to 20th Century Fox, with Ridley Scott showing interest in adapting Wool into a movie. Does anyone here remember the PC game Fallout ? Here's its great introductory movie , with its famous war never changes speech. I played the hell out of it when it came out and it's one of the games on which I learned the English language. In Fallout its 2161, and after a major nuclear war humanity has hid in underground vaults. Generations have lived in such way, without having seen natural light. The player controls an inhabitant of Vault 13, where a computer chip responsible for purifying water has broken - and is sent into the outside world to journey to other communities, looking for a replacement. The player has 150 game days to complete the assignment and return to the vault before its water supply runs out. Fallout has won many awards and sprawled a number of sequels, and it stole many childhoods with its addictive qualities - including a large and open word, with many non-pcs ready for interaction, quests and subplots ready to indulge in. Wool starts intriguing enough, and Howey has a good sense of pacing to keep up the interest all the way through the first part. After an unnamed apocalyptic event the earth has been rendered uninhabitable, and people have to live in an underground Silo, which extends many stories beneath the surface of the planet. Inhabitants can see the outside world only through a lens, and the images are grim: constantly cloudy and dark skies, the ragged plains and mountains depopulated by strong radiation. Despite this, people live quite comfortably in the Silo, except for one small detail: the lens which shows them the outside world gets dirty with dust and rust, and has to be cleaned - a perilous duty, as it involved going outside and becoming exposed to a deadly amount of radiation. Although technicians working at the Silo managed to develop protective suits, they only last for a short time before disintegrating from exposure - effectively making the cleaning a one-way trip. Therefore, the only people who clean the lens are those sent to do so as punishment. And everyone who is sentenced to cleaning cleans - there has not been a case of anyone going outside and not cleaning in the history of the Silo. The first part of Wool follows the story of Holston, the Silo's sheriff who is trying to understand the circumstances which led to his wife's death. She has been sentenced to Cleaning - and Holston is doing his best to understand why, as he believes the sentence was connected to his wife's investigation of Silo's historical records. Although there is only basic wordbuilding and the characters are sketchily drawn at best, the familiar concept is still intriguing enough to turn the page. But then Wool 1 ends, and trouble sets in. Although the author maintains that each of the five installments is meant to be read as a standalone, there is simply no way that they could work this way. Wool 1 leaves far too many questions unanswered - each introduced idea begets interest which is never properly cared for. Howey embarks an ambitious idea - trying to create a new society from scratch, and create characters the readers can care for - but a vast majority of questions the reader can have about his world, its past and present, science and technology are never answered. Holston, his wife, their relationship and the whole society is painted rather than presented, never feeling quite real. But how could it in just 50 pages? Wool 1 ends with a giant cliffhanger, prompting a swift reader response demanding one thing - more! So <---A>Hugh Howey</---A> wrote four extra parts, again claiming that each was always meant to be read individually, but I don't believe it. Howey seems to be caught between wanting to tell a single story, and split it into several independent short novels - but doesn't pull it off, leaving each installment bordering awkwardly between wanting to experiment with new ideas and characters and dependence on the old for the sake of continuity. This leaves each installment unsatisfying on its own, as new characters are introduced, presented and dispatched - without offering the readers a proper chance to grow attached to them. The single storyline quickly starting to feel convoluted, as the subsequent parts merely dilute the ideas found in Wool 1 instead of presenting truly new and fascinating concepts. I don't know how much of it was pre-planned, but it seems to me that the success of Wool 1 caught the author by surprise, and he didn't quite knew what to do with the plot to do justice to his premise, and what he came up with provoked only a small \"eh? that's it?\", with the author emerging not carrying a torch of victory but clutching a straw. (view spoiler) [The whole notion that the earth was razed down and the inhabitants of the silos were kept in secret about the whole ordeal seemed to be the most obvious plot choice ever, and this is exactly what happens. There are literally thousands New World Order conspiracies and this is just another one of them - albeit not a very creative or surprising one. It was Earth all along - 45 years later! (hide spoiler) ] The science in Wool seems to be treated with a very soft brush, and paid only minimal attention to for the sake of moving the plot along. But most unbelievable is the cleaning process, on which the whole plot lies - it's really pointless and inexplicable with its needless complexity and waste of precious human resources. I couldn't believe that the society wouldn't invent a mechanical cleaner whom they could simply send out to clean the lens. Really? We sent humans, dogs and monkeys into space. Surely a small robot could be thought of. We have one on Mars right now. And the sheer idea that every single person in history of the Silo has always cleaned the lens is simply unimaginable. With the cleaning being essentially capital punishment, it's ridiculous to suggest that every single person sentenced to death dutifully cleaned the lens for posterity instead of leaving it be or even breaking it. The cleaners knew that they had one final chance to get back at those who sent them there, sometimes perhaps unjustly - would we really believe that they all cleaned the lens out of their own free will, after they were condemned to death and were beyond the reach of their opressors? What happened to all rebels and simple assholes? Wool received so many rave ratings all over the web, but in terms of novelty, originality and even entertainment it has delivered so preciously little. It's really nothing more than a relatively simple idea stretched and separated into 5 novellas and then published as a single volume. It has nothing of the grand richness of great science fiction, with detailed and inventive world-building and creative ideas, complete with compelling characterization of both heroes and villains, making them vivid and memorable. From what I see here the author has already pulled a George Lucas on us, publishing a new series of prologue novels of the Silo's origin - but the reviews are beginning to get mixed. I won't be reading them - there are far too many other interesting novels to attend to. This year I have read Paul Auster's In the Country of Last Things and Brian Evenson's Immobility , both also dystopian novels - and much better than Howey's cycle of five. I would recommend them both over this any time, and although the time devoted on it goes by pretty fast it'd be much better spent by discovering the hidden gems of the genre which has so much to offer instead of following this goose only painted to look gold. ...more Bullet Review: Good story, but OMG, did we REALLY need 500 pages to tell it?! So much of the \"story\" is just Juliette spending chapters getting into and out of clothes and airlocks, it was about ready to drive me nuts. Could be a superb story minus about 200 pages. And because of that, it's doubtful I'll pursue the rest of the series. There's a good internet saying for this: tl;dr Too long; didn't read Sums up how I feel pretty well. Full Review: It is some unspecified time in the future; people live i Bullet Review: Good story, but OMG, did we REALLY need 500 pages to tell it?! So much of the \"story\" is just Juliette spending chapters getting into and out of clothes and airlocks, it was about ready to drive me nuts. Could be a superb story minus about 200 pages. And because of that, it's doubtful I'll pursue the rest of the series. There's a good internet saying for this: tl;dr Too long; didn't read Sums up how I feel pretty well. Full Review: It is some unspecified time in the future; people live in silos, but they never talk about the circumstances of living in the silo. If they do, they head out to clean the cameras viewing the miserable outdoor world. Juliette takes over for the Sheriff, Holston, and quickly begins to uncover the secrets IT, led by Bernard, are hiding. This book got several good reviews from Goodreads' friends, whose opinions I deeply trust. This is what led me to the book; this is what led me to choose this book for my Book Club book. And while my gut churns just thinking this in light of their favorable opinions, I got mixed feelings about this book. On one hand, it's got a fascinating story and was a great lesson for me to think about characters being non-white (see my Casting Review below). On the other hand, it's soooooooo sloooooooow. It seriously smarts of \"first author syndrome\" - the detailing of Each and Every Action, no matter how important to the actual story. There were definitely great characters. Juliette proved to me that you can have a female lead without relying 100% on the romance angle. Other excellent nuanced characters include the slimy Bernard, Holston, Marnes, Peter, and Knox. Lots of great characters - it was even more fun for me because, instead of imagining each as a white dude or chick, I went out of my way to find non-white actors and actresses for each role. As I mentioned above, the story and world-building had a lot of promise. I can't help but liken it to Justin Cronin's \"The Passage\" in this regard - both are about isolated societies in a post-apocalyptic world. I liked learning how the society was, even though there were plenty of details that made no sense (such as young, healthy people treating several stories as a huge deal when they've lived their ENTIRE LIVES on stairs). It felt like a dystopia - not like the fauxtopias that are all the rage these days. But really, what really kept me from liking it, what is holding back all the stars is the fact the book is too damned slow. This is best exemplified in the second short story where the entire plot is Marnes and Jahns descending and ascending the stairs. Yes, there is character development going on. Yes, it does build the world. But seriously, 100+ pages for this? Absolutely not. And this never really improves over the course of the novel. Howey spends whole chapters on Juliette flailing through airlocks and removing or putting on clothes. Again, really? I understand trying to detail his surroundings, but it quickly goes overboard. As I was trying desperately to finish this before the new year, I agonized over something: why was I eager to continue Justin Cronin's equally slow \"Passage\" trilogy but considering giving up Howey's \"Wool\" series? Both are slow, both don't seem to go anywhere - so why one and not the other? And then I remember - yes, \"The Passage\" was slow and boring in places, but the first 250 pages were AWESOME. I devoured them. They didn't wallow in the characters' every detailed movement from one room to the other. They didn't spend huge chapters just entering an airlock. Stuff happened. So, while this is a decent book, I won't be continuing the series. I've heard it just gets slower and more dragged out, and if I ever plan on making a dent in my To Read list, I need to start figuring out what books to read and which to let go. Now, that isn't to say this is a terrible book that everyone should avoid. It just means: be prepared for a very, VERY slow pace. Casting Review: Because I have no life and am trying to get over my white privilege bias, I wanted to visualize actors for these characters, with an emphasis on non-white actors. Give me a hand! Holston: Jaime Foxx Allison: Lucy Liu Jahns: Phylicia Rashad (I totally didn't think I could find someone other than maybe Diane Keaton or Sigourney Weaver for this part, because of the age, but Phylicia fits how I think of Jahns!!) Marnes: Avery Brooks Thanks to Julia for this one! Bernard: Paul Giamatti Thanks to Julia for this one! Juliette: Michelle Rodriguez OK, I don't see Juliette looking exactly like THIS pic - but this pic is AWESOME!! Lukas: Max Mingehella Thanks Rachel (BAVR) and Becky!! Peter Billings: Ideas: Anthony Mackie Scottie: Justin Long Knox: Tom Hanks (with beard - beard is a MUST) McLain: Helen Mirren (she popped into my head from the first) Solo: Michael Ealy Thank you, Rachel (BAVR) , for this excellent selection!! Marck: Chiwetel Ejiofor Not sure if he should be Marck, but he DEFINITELY needs to be cast in this movie!! Dude is awesome!!! Shirly: Gina Torres Walker: Kris Kristofferson Thanks to Blade I canNOT think of anyone else as Walker but Kris. Jenkins: Kal Penn A bit of a strange one, but I'm thinking of his character from the TV series, \"House\". Smart, but also completely overwhelmed and underexperienced. Normally, I don't do these sorts of things, but in this case, I thought, hey, why not! Also, post images of who YOU think should be each of the major(ish) characters!!h ...more Outstanding! WOOL began its life as a self-published short novella in July of 2011. That's hard to believe. I feel like I've been hearing about this thing for ages and ages . So I'm late to the party, but not that late. Due to excited reader response over WOOL 1 , author Hugh Howey quickly released the next four parts in the series . Then came along this Omnibus which collects Parts 1-5. There is now a 2013 edition with a great new cover that features a blurb by none other than Justin Cronin , author Outstanding! WOOL began its life as a self-published short novella in July of 2011. That's hard to believe. I feel like I've been hearing about this thing for ages and ages . So I'm late to the party, but not that late. Due to excited reader response over WOOL 1 , author Hugh Howey quickly released the next four parts in the series . Then came along this Omnibus which collects Parts 1-5. There is now a 2013 edition with a great new cover that features a blurb by none other than Justin Cronin , author of The Passage . In a few short years, Howey has given all struggling writers out there toiling away at their craft in obscurity real hope. Word of mouth among bloggers and enthusiastic readers on sites like Amazon and Goodreads has the potential to lift the curse of invisibility from self-published works so that they may find their way to audiences who will love them. Never before have the barriers between author and reader been so few, the access so direct. No longer are authors strictly dependent on big publishing houses to discover them and deem their work important enough to go to market accompanied by a sexy publicity campaign. Authors and readers are doing it for themselves, and I for one think it's a beautiful thing. I love everything about this story -- I love the details of the world-building, I love the characters, I love the shifting points of view, I love the slow burn when you're not sure what is going on. When it became clear to me exactly what was going on I love that I wasn't disappointed. For a post-apocalyptic story trodding very familiar science fiction territory, it still feels fresh. The author definitely gives it his own spin. I love that the stakes are so high. I love that the author is patient and in control of his narrative. That he doesn't reveal too much too soon. That he understands the relationship between tension and release. All of that to say, I love that the writing is so strong and capable (I've read too much self-published stuff where the prose is inexcusably sloppy). Howey's writing is the exact opposite of sloppy. It's polished. Its engine hums. The shoes are shiny and it's wearing a tie. It's ready to take home to mom. Finally, I love Juliette. She's Ellen Ripley, Katniss Everdeen, and Dana Scully all rolled up into one. She's got brains and courage and heart and a will made of iron. There's a lot of under-developed, underwhelming dystopian fiction kicking around out there these days. WOOL leaves those attempts in its dust. It's worth your time. Trust me. Book trailer available here ...more I'm not one to expound too much on low ratings, but I feel compelled to do so, here, given the high praise heaped on this book by other reviewers. That said, this will be spoilerific, so if you want out, now would be the time to bail. Seriously. I'm going to spoil the hell out of this. Disclaimer: I have absolutely nothing against indie publishers (authors who choose to self-publish). This review has nothing to do with that. First, the things I liked about the book. The author is actually very good I'm not one to expound too much on low ratings, but I feel compelled to do so, here, given the high praise heaped on this book by other reviewers. That said, this will be spoilerific, so if you want out, now would be the time to bail. Seriously. I'm going to spoil the hell out of this. Disclaimer: I have absolutely nothing against indie publishers (authors who choose to self-publish). This review has nothing to do with that. First, the things I liked about the book. The author is actually very good at pacing. The book reads easily -- one might almost say 'effortlessly' -- and you keep turning page after page to see how things come out. I think that, from a technical viewpoint, the author is not bad. Nothing leaped out at me, as sometimes happens, to kick me out of the story because of some technicality of writing or style that reminded me, \"Hey, you're reading a book.\" Some beautiful little turn of phrase or clever dialogue that made me focus on the words and not the story. I thought the main characters were likable, and I found myself caring what happened to them at every point. This was, for me, the saving grace of the book. Now, if that were all I judged the books on, I would easily have given this 4 stars and moved on. I was entertained. But a couple of things just have to be said. First of all, I'm not a psychologist, nor do I have any clinical understanding of the field. But I couldn't help but notice that the people in this world don't behave like real people living in a real world. We are told early on that none of the people banished to clean the lenses has ever -- EVER, in hundreds of years -- failed to do his or her duty before dying. Unless we're being lied to -- and that is a possibility, but if that's the case, then it was far too subtle for me to pick up on -- I find it highly improbable that not a single person would have failed to clean the lenses in hundreds of years. I would not have cleaned them, and I don't think I'm SO different from other people. I would have thought, \"So long, suckers, I'm going to head over toward that miraculous city over there.\" Probably tinged with a little, \"You jerks kicked me out. Why should I do you any favors?\" Or maybe I would have frantically jumped up and down gesticulating wildly at the onlookers, trying to make them understand that they were being lied to. I had a real problem getting past that. It seemed plausible right up to the point where you kind of started to figure out what was going on, and then with the least bit of thought about it, the premise just collapses. I read this on my Kindle (so no skipping ahead). After the main character of the first section dies, I thought, \"Oh, so that was kind of a prologue. No problem.\" Then I read the second part, where the mayor was the main character . . . and then SHE dies. \"O . . . K,\" I thought, angry, but willing to move on. Then the third section opens with Juliette about to be sent out for cleaning, and we quickly find out that the deputy committed suicide, and I stopped reading for over a week, absolutely disgusted with the book. This was at 23% in the Kindle. I mentioned as much to a friend who had read the whole thing, and she told me that Juliette remained the main character for the remainder of the book. Had I not known this, I would have honestly stopped reading it right there. It's too much. Give me a character to hang onto from the beginning. Don't yank the rug out from under me like that not once, not twice, but THREE times, and expect me to continue reading. The next time I almost stopped reading was when Bernard explained to Lukas how all the silos came to be. It was . . . just so contrived. I mean, straight out of insane conspiracy theories about the New World Order. In short, the US saw that it was in decline, and rather than just deal with that, the Ebil Gubmint decided that if they couldn't be in charge, no one ELSE could, either, so they literally made the surface of the entire planet uninhabitable and established the silos as a kind of Ark to preserve the species and their ideological way of life. Why? Because they're EBIL. And they're the GUBMINT. WHAT? Had this come earlier in the book . . . I would have stopped reading it and moved on to something else. As it was, this came after I was invested in the characters of Juliette, Solo, Walker, Shirly, and Lukas. So I kept reading to find out how it ended. That, incidentally, is why I didn't give it 1 star. I did get invested in the characters, and I did want to know what happened. And, as I said, the pacing was marvelous. Speaking of getting invested . . . Juliette risks her life to leave silo 17 and return to silo 18. I fully expected Lukas to die, so I was pleasantly surprised when it turned out to be Bernard. But in spite of her promise to the inhabitants of silo 17, we are not shown that she mentions them AT ALL after her return to silo 18. At the end, in an epilogue, we are given a glimpse into what's going on in silo 17 as Solo is about to call Juliette . . . but we don't know if anyone in silo 18 was primed to receive the call. For all the 17ians knew, Juliette died in the Outside. She was, after all, out of commission for weeks while she healed from her burns. I was expecting Juliette's acceptance of the Mayorship to hinge on connecting 17 and 18 in the Down Deep and get some engineers over there to get 17 running again. But . . . no. To be fair, perhaps this is the story for the sequel series, but it would have been nice for him to have at least followed up on this. One last thing that just bothered the crap out of me is resources. It was stated that the silo complex was located near Atlanta, Ga. There were mines and oil wells under the silo. But I find it very difficult to believe that there is enough ore and oil in Georgia to sustain 50 silos for hundreds upon hundreds of years of constant mining and pumping. I also found it very difficult to believe that in all that time, not even once did a wall collapse between the mines of adjacent silos. Anyway, that's enough. My two stars are because I just can't accept the psychology, world building, physics, and math of the world I'm being asked to accept. And basing the entire premise on a loony conspiracy theory didn't help. I wanted to like this book more. I'm not sorry I finished reading it, but if someone had told me from the beginning that it was based in New World Order conspiracy theories, I would have passed. ...more When the old sheriff of the Silo dies, Juliette, a Mechanic, is thrust into the role and quickly finds herself in over her head after asking the wrong questions. What will she discover when she's cast out of the Silo into the toxic world beyond and left for dead? Yeah, that's not a great summary but there's a lot I don't want to spoil. Since I've become more and more interested in the idea of Kindle publishing as of late, I decided to check out Wool, one of the juggernauts of self-publishing. Whil When the old sheriff of the Silo dies, Juliette, a Mechanic, is thrust into the role and quickly finds herself in over her head after asking the wrong questions. What will she discover when she's cast out of the Silo into the toxic world beyond and left for dead? Yeah, that's not a great summary but there's a lot I don't want to spoil. Since I've become more and more interested in the idea of Kindle publishing as of late, I decided to check out Wool, one of the juggernauts of self-publishing. While I heard the title (and thought it was stupid), I went in cold and was pleasantly surprised. Wool takes place in a dystopian future where what's left of humanity lives in a Silo underground, levels upon levels of apartments, farms, mines, machinery, a self contained community. People who commit certain offenses are sent out to Clean, to clear the grit off the sensors providing the residents a view of the outside, before dying in the nuclear wasteland. Juliette, the protagonist of parts 2-5, is a fantastic character. Her logical mind, honed from years of repairing ancient machines, quickly has her asking all sorts of questions about the history of the Silo and the possibility of life beyond. Her relationship with Lukas was believable and not at all sappy. The book reminds me of old school science fiction, exploring ideas about control, conformity, and manipulation. When Juliette and company figure out what's been going on for two hundred years, the manure hits the windmill. The writing was understated but still good. It's several notches above what you'd expect in a self-published book and probably a notch or two above some Big Six publishing house efforts lately. Is it deserving of the massive hype it gets? Probably not but it's still really good. I think the \"little guy done good\" aspect of Howey's success gives it a little more punch in some people's eyes. A few minor things bugged me, most related to pace and how readily some of the people revolted. Also, I wouldn't have minded a little more of Silo 17 in the epilogue. Still, it has some strong scenes in it. Juliette running out of air was a pretty powerful scene and will stick with me for a long time. Wool should appeal to old school science fiction fans and dystopia fans alike. 4.5 out of 5 stars. ...more Hugh Howey paints a world, or what is left of one post apocalypse, with an eye for detail that is easily visualized; one that you can descend into and inhabit. This is epic storytelling, told with a taut hand on the tiller, controlling the pace and direction, allowing the reader to uncover truths together with the many, care worthy, relatable characters that populate this place. I blinked a couple of times and found myself entrenched in this world. And it all seems so effortless, the narrative fl Hugh Howey paints a world, or what is left of one post apocalypse, with an eye for detail that is easily visualized; one that you can descend into and inhabit. This is epic storytelling, told with a taut hand on the tiller, controlling the pace and direction, allowing the reader to uncover truths together with the many, care worthy, relatable characters that populate this place. I blinked a couple of times and found myself entrenched in this world. And it all seems so effortless, the narrative flows, the voices are real, the soup thickens and the heroine Jules is absolutely kick ass, with a mechanics cool composure; confident in her analytical ability to fix anything, determined to maintain that which is not broken. Stroke it or strike it. She rocks! I\u2019m telling you I climbed those stairs from down deep, round and round, to up top, with these people, legs cramping, heart pounding in my ears, breathless and shaken from the trip. And every time I thought I knew where I was going, Howey held his grip firm on that tiller and took me someplace else. I laboured over the details, peeking in at the players, letting the pressure build, scarfing down every morsel offered, thumbing the pages, ingesting the words. Yum. I LOVED IT!!!!! Note: Read the omnibus containing all five parts. ...more A bunch of people live in an underground community and those who break the rules are cruelly expelled to their doom? Reality TV producers have to be kicking themselves for not coming up with this idea themselves. At an undetermined time in the future, the people of the Silo have lived for generations with only a few dusty camera views to show them the world above ground. After the sheriff steps down from his post in rather dramatic fashion, the mayor and a deputy determine that a mechanic named J A bunch of people live in an underground community and those who break the rules are cruelly expelled to their doom? Reality TV producers have to be kicking themselves for not coming up with this idea themselves. At an undetermined time in the future, the people of the Silo have lived for generations with only a few dusty camera views to show them the world above ground. After the sheriff steps down from his post in rather dramatic fashion, the mayor and a deputy determine that a mechanic named Juliette is the best candidate to replace him, but her appointment results in a series of events that threaten to expose long kept secrets and tear the Silo apart. Hugh Howey is one of the biggest success stories in self-publishing, and I understand why after the early chapters do an exceptional job of introducing us to this world. The stairwell is a vertical highway connecting the complex, and journeying from top to bottom is no easy task. Having two characters make the trek in the early part of the book was a great way of giving us a tour of the Silo that established not only how it works logistically, but how it functions as a society. Juliette started out as a very strong character against this vivid background, and Howe sets her up perfectly as the hero to carry the story. Unfortunately, he seemed to have some problems with what to do after that, and I was slightly let down at where the plot went from there. I can\u2019t say much about that without giving the book away though. (view spoiler) [ I was disappointed that Juliette wasn\u2019t given more to do in the sheriff\u2019s role and as a character overall. In fact, while Bernard made for a great villain with his infuriating arrogance, he was so ahead of Juliette at every turn that it made her disappointingly passive. While she takes plenty of actions during the course of the story, none of them really accomplish anything. Juliette doesn\u2019t uncover the conspiracy; her friend in IT finds the data that clues her into what\u2019s going on although she does figure out the bit about the suits being deliberately made badly. Before she can really do anything as sheriff she\u2019s almost instantly demoted and sent out to clean and only survives that because her friends swapped the faulty parts of the suit. That kicks off the whole rebellion, but Juliette has no part of it. At the other Silo she spends most of her time trying to get a pump working and almost dies doing so, but again, that doesn\u2019t resolve anything in this story. Finally, in the end, she again almost dies because she accidently tries to save the life of the villain of the story, and we learn that Bernard wasn\u2019t bested because of anything she did, rather it was all done by other people. Part of this is disconnection is because of the structure of the plot. Sending Juliette out of the Silo automatically cuts her out of the action that takes place for the rest of the story. Her dangers mainly come from her environment, not because of anything connected to the plot although an argument could be made that Howey was trying to put in some kind of theme about her overcoming the elements since she almost dies by earth and air (Surviving the toxins and asphyxiation after being sent out to clean.), water and then fire. One of her Big Damn Hero moments is supposed to be her rushing up the stairs of the second Silo when she\u2019s completely exhausted because she\u2019s desperate to get back into radio contact with her friends, but what exactly was that going to accomplish even if she had gotten back in touch of them? Essentially the character's major achievement is that she suffers and endures so that she can continue to suffer and endure. So I found it very disappointing that we had a good character that I wanted to root for as the lead in the story, but she felt removed from the action with little actual impact on the plot. It\u2019s kind of sad that Howey built up such a great sci-fi setting and then pushed the best character away from it to have her explore something similar but decayed and mostly empty. I was also wishing that the story would have been more than a vast conspiracy storyline. The idea that all the silos were part of some centuries old evil master plan was OK, but I think it would have been far more interesting if the situation in the Silo was the result of internal conflicts that had built up over the decades. Juliette and Bernard at war with each other in the Silo is a story I\u2019m more interested in than just another plot about unspeakable secrets kept from a society. (hide spoiler) ] Overall, Howey created a well written sci-fi tale with an intriguing setting that I was very interested in, but unfortunately, I found the plot and actions taken by the characters far less compelling. I don\u2019t regret reading this, but I probably won\u2019t be checking out the follow-up books to it. ...more Wool, by Hugh Howey is reminiscent of Robert Silverberg\u2019s Time of the Great Freeze or Philip K. Dick's The Penultimate Truth with a population living underground following a climate-changing catastrophe. The <+++>Wool Omnibus</+++> is actually a collection of five novellas connecting the action, a serialization of an ongoing storyline. The setting reminds me of the Zion population in the Wachowski Matrix films, an isolated, encased and quarantined populace. I found the narration mainly good, sometimes very Wool, by Hugh Howey is reminiscent of Robert Silverberg\u2019s Time of the Great Freeze or Philip K. Dick's The Penultimate Truth with a population living underground following a climate-changing catastrophe. The <+++>Wool Omnibus</+++> is actually a collection of five novellas connecting the action, a serialization of an ongoing storyline. The setting reminds me of the Zion population in the Wachowski Matrix films, an isolated, encased and quarantined populace. I found the narration mainly good, sometimes very good, but inconsistent, disjointed and with some holes in the plot. I felt like the great work in the beginning slacked off towards the later chapters; I really liked the first story and the second and third novellas, but by the last book, I was ready to see this wrap up. In fairness to Howey, I did like the ending and felt he concluded his story well. This book also made me consider my interest in the post-apocalyptic / dystopian genre. A study could be made about the course of fantasy /sci-fi from the 50s on and how the dominant themes have moved from generally optimistic to more pessimistic. Was the 1969 moon landing a high water mark in our culture and since then has our collective artistic vision been more depressed and less optimistic? Ultimately I think this book, like most dystopian stories, is fundamentally optimistic, with a story about the resiliency and determinism of humanity. Howey creates a meaningful metaphor for how we will survive, perhaps a seed tucked away in a silo, awaiting a better time, but surviving and enduring beyond bad times. ...more This book is an excellent and unique take on a post-apocalyptic earth. Recently, literature has been saturated with post-apocalyptic stories and sometimes it is hard to find something that is fresh . . . something that doesn't feel like it has already been done before. Everything about this book was suspenseful and interesting - no boredom of rehashed ideas/concepts/storylines for me. Another cool thing about it is the book is divided into little novellas which kind of refresh the story every 50 This book is an excellent and unique take on a post-apocalyptic earth. Recently, literature has been saturated with post-apocalyptic stories and sometimes it is hard to find something that is fresh . . . something that doesn't feel like it has already been done before. Everything about this book was suspenseful and interesting - no boredom of rehashed ideas/concepts/storylines for me. Another cool thing about it is the book is divided into little novellas which kind of refresh the story every 50 to 100 pages while keeping with the bigger story as a whole. The characters you meet in this book are great. They are easy to empathize with. They are easy to cheer for. They are easy to despise. In the end, some are hard to mourn. I am not sure this book is for everyone. I have read reviews that say it is too long or too slow. I did not feel either of those things so hopefully you won't either! ...more Some books take a while to dig into. The first few chapters set up the story, introduce you to the main characters and build a framework for the tale to come. Wool sets up the story too, but in a heartbreaking and gripping way that has you consuming the book as quickly as possible, if only to learn the answer to: \"that's not really about to happen, is it?\" There are moments in Wool when I wondered if maybe the book was too dark. I mourned for characters and didn't know how they would possibly get Some books take a while to dig into. The first few chapters set up the story, introduce you to the main characters and build a framework for the tale to come. Wool sets up the story too, but in a heartbreaking and gripping way that has you consuming the book as quickly as possible, if only to learn the answer to: \"that's not really about to happen, is it?\" There are moments in Wool when I wondered if maybe the book was too dark. I mourned for characters and didn't know how they would possibly get themselves out of the messes they (or others) had gotten them into. I won't say it worked out for everyone, but there is enough hopefulness and light in the book to brighten the darkest depths of this silo. Wool is not a long read (even shorter when you can't put it down and read it over two nights) but it is one that will stick with you. ...more I enjoy Post apocalyptic Stories every now and again and as this book had been getting rave reviews I had to give it a go. The idea is really interesting, \"This is the story of mankind clawing for survival, of mankind on the edge. The world outside has grown unkind, the view of it limited, talk of it forbidden. But there are always those who hope, who dream. These are the dangerous people, the residents who infect others with their optimism. Their punishment is simple. They are given the very th I enjoy Post apocalyptic Stories every now and again and as this book had been getting rave reviews I had to give it a go. The idea is really interesting, \"This is the story of mankind clawing for survival, of mankind on the edge. The world outside has grown unkind, the view of it limited, talk of it forbidden. But there are always those who hope, who dream. These are the dangerous people, the residents who infect others with their optimism. Their punishment is simple. They are given the very thing they profess to want: They are allowed outside\" The first chapter had me gripped and I really thought I had another The Road in my hands and really looked forward to something special. While I did like the concept of the novel I found the book lost its initial impact after the first couple of chapters. I found the characters very weak and poorly developed and the I got bogged down in the overwhelming descriptions of everything and this made the book seem endless. There are a couple of twists and turns towards the end of the novel but they came too late for me. Having read and loved The Road and The Passage I was hoping that Wool would be just as atmospheric and eerie but unfortunately it didn't appeal to me. The book is over 550 pages long and I really felt that it could have been a lot shorter . Having read this back in November, I had to re-read this one for a book club read this month. I listened to it this time and the narrator was quite good but the book dragged regardless. ...more This is going to end up being one of those books I force on all my friends, insisting that they read it immediately. I loved it and can't wait for more. Please see my full reviews of the stories: Wool 1 Wool 2: Proper Gauge Wool 3: Casting Off Wool 4: The Unraveling Wool 5: The Stranded Now go read this! You won't regret it! Update May 13, 2012: Hugh Howey has announced over on his blog that his self-published book Wool has been acquired by Fox! I couldn't be happier for him, and I am so excited for the This is going to end up being one of those books I force on all my friends, insisting that they read it immediately. I loved it and can't wait for more. Please see my full reviews of the stories: Wool 1 Wool 2: Proper Gauge Wool 3: Casting Off Wool 4: The Unraveling Wool 5: The Stranded Now go read this! You won't regret it! Update May 13, 2012: Hugh Howey has announced over on his blog that his self-published book Wool has been acquired by Fox! I couldn't be happier for him, and I am so excited for the future of this promising author. How crazy to have something explode so quickly like Wool has! Update October 29, 2012: Wool has been spotted at Powell's Books in Portland! I was bleary-eyed and walking towards the coffee shop when lo! what should I spot on the new release shelf but the Wool Omnibus. I gasped and ran over to it and fondled it affectionately. The person shelving close by gave me a weird look and stepped away. Nobody gets between me and my Wool. Another update! October 30, 2012: Guess what book is totally on the Goodreads choice for best sci-fi novel? Yeah! I know! I cast my vote so fast I didn't even see what else was on there. I'll be rooting for you, Hugh! ...more Wool tells the story of a group of people living in an underground bunker with over 100 floors. Just talking about what's on the outside, or a desire for any change in their situation is considered treason, and may cause them to be sent for Cleaning. Cleaning is when the condemned person cleans the windows so the people can get a clearer view of the world outside. This series has Twilight Zone written all over it, and I'd be surprised if it doesn't end in a Twllight Zone-type fashion. Wool One, 4 Wool tells the story of a group of people living in an underground bunker with over 100 floors. Just talking about what's on the outside, or a desire for any change in their situation is considered treason, and may cause them to be sent for Cleaning. Cleaning is when the condemned person cleans the windows so the people can get a clearer view of the world outside. This series has Twilight Zone written all over it, and I'd be surprised if it doesn't end in a Twllight Zone-type fashion. Wool One, 4.5 stars A man who is still grieving for his wife who was sent out for Cleaning three years ago, decides to go for Cleaning himself. Through flaskbacks, we learn what led to this decision. This left me full of questions, but not in a bad way! Wool Two, 4 stars The elderly Mayor is interviewing for a job position that's opened up, and travels down 100 levels to interview a person who wants nothing to do with the job. We get to see what goes on and how they're able to survive living underground for so long. Wool Three, 5 stars A young woman searches for answers. Wool Four, 5 stars Wool Five, 4.5 stars Don't forget to read the epilogue after the Q&A. I almost missed it. I don't know what I can say about Wool 5 that wouldn't be a spoiler of the previous books, so I won't say anything, except that I loved it! Great worldbuilding, Hugh! Thank you! ...more Before I read this, I . . . er . . . siloed myself off from other reviews. Now that I'm finished, I'm glad I did. The sense of claustrophobia and restrained liberty was complete, as a result. But I'm a middle class American living a life of relative freedom when compared to most of the world today, and definitely when compared to the world of Wool . There were times, many times, when I had to remind myself to breathe ! This is the amazing thing about the book - the way it captures you and slyly le Before I read this, I . . . er . . . siloed myself off from other reviews. Now that I'm finished, I'm glad I did. The sense of claustrophobia and restrained liberty was complete, as a result. But I'm a middle class American living a life of relative freedom when compared to most of the world today, and definitely when compared to the world of Wool . There were times, many times, when I had to remind myself to breathe ! This is the amazing thing about the book - the way it captures you and slyly leads you from plot point to plot point without you knowing you are being shepherded along by the author. It's much like . . . well, like living in a dystopian world where you don't know anything about what is beyond your immediate reach, while someone, someone else does. Someone who you might know. Or maybe not. How would you know? The plot is really the unveiling of masks, nothing fancy, nothing elaborate. It's a very workman-like plot, and I guessed a few things before they were revealed. But I was along for the ride like a child locked in a car seat with a lollipop. The writing is just that smooth. But what I really enjoyed were the characters. Jahns, Lukas, Juliette, Bernard. These were maybe not entirely believable all the time (Peter's \"conversion\" was off-putting, though necessary), but each character was identifiable enough and warm enough that it was fairly easy to willingly suspend my disbelief. And what can one say about Juliette? She is strong, determined, yet vulnerable. Smart, but prone to mistakes. Her heart is crusted on the outside, but soft in the middle. She is, in a word, \"human\". I greatly enjoyed getting to know her. And Lukas was one of the most believable characters I've read in a long time. \"Conflicted\" is the word that comes to mind when I think of Lukas. He wants to do what's right, but is torn between the logic of duty and the freedom of his heart. I felt like I related to him a great deal, like there is some of Lukas in me. That's the kind of connection I felt while watching him move, tentatively and naively, perhaps, to an emotional space that was simultaneously sad, bold, and endearing. No, the science isn't perfect, and the deep history behind the whole setup was hackneyed. But Howey uses the setting, the situation, and the players so well that those minor annoyances soon melt into the background. You've probably noticed that I'm not giving a blow-by-blow on the relevant plot points, that I'm being vague. This is intentional. I want you to be submerged in the silo, as well, so you can discover for yourself something about human nature, the need to control, and the need for freedom. I hope you'll jump into this world and struggle and hem and haw and backtrack and embolden yourself so that you can find your own way out. You're going to have to trust some people to help you on your way out. You can't do it alone. Be careful who you choose as your friends, but once you've chosen them, trust them . . . and yourself. I wish you luck. Oh, and don't believe everything you see or everything you hear. The world isn't how it seems. But maybe you aren't how you see yourself, either. ...more This one grew on me as I went along with successive generations of sheriffs in the silo society coming up against the hidden forces of conspiracy. But my drive to understand the real story behind this post-apocalyptic colony was undermined by the slowness of revelations, their contrived nature, and wooden quality of character portrayals. I couldn\u2019t suspend disbelief on the lack of communal knowledge about the causes of the apocalypse, why the world outside is so toxic, how the society could make This one grew on me as I went along with successive generations of sheriffs in the silo society coming up against the hidden forces of conspiracy. But my drive to understand the real story behind this post-apocalyptic colony was undermined by the slowness of revelations, their contrived nature, and wooden quality of character portrayals. I couldn\u2019t suspend disbelief on the lack of communal knowledge about the causes of the apocalypse, why the world outside is so toxic, how the society could make a celebration out of the capital punishment associated with cleaning the lens of the only camera on the outside world, or that enough food could be grown without sunlight and enough energy generated from coal conveniently available for mining under the silo. I did like the atmospherics of the place and cultural divisions of the society associated with people\u2019s jobs and floor of the silo. And I appreciated the power struggle between the evil and secretive IT folks at mid-level and the more salt-of-the-earth mechanical technician caste in the basement power plant. That our heroes with law enforcement are handicapped by so much ignorance and constraints on acquiring dangerous knowledge had the flavor of Dorothy looking for the Wizard of Oz\u2014that had its positive and negative aspects with me for the tale. The concept that it would take days to traverse 140 floors of the silo was particularly hard to fathom. But hurray for how a self-published short story could draw an audience and evolve into a broader vision and success for the author. ...more The basic premise: mankind has devastated the surface of the world, leaving ruined cities, endless wasteland and a toxic atmosphere. The only survivors live in an underground silo, a closed society with a mayor, a sheriff, and a shadowy IT department that seems to control everything, including the population's understanding of reality outside the silo. Cameras offer a glimpse of the outside world on monitors throughout the silo, letting the inhabitants see the sunrise over the wasteland and all The basic premise: mankind has devastated the surface of the world, leaving ruined cities, endless wasteland and a toxic atmosphere. The only survivors live in an underground silo, a closed society with a mayor, a sheriff, and a shadowy IT department that seems to control everything, including the population's understanding of reality outside the silo. Cameras offer a glimpse of the outside world on monitors throughout the silo, letting the inhabitants see the sunrise over the wasteland and allay some of their claustrophobia, but the cameras often get grimy because of the atmosphere. Hence the silo's ultimate punishment: cleaning. For many crimes, including the forbidden act of simply expressing a desire to go outside, the convicted is put in an airtight suit and sent on a one-way trip to clean the lenses of the cameras. For some reason, the convicted always does the job, no matter how much they protest in advance. Within minutes, however, the suit deteriorates and the convict collapses, becoming another permanent feature of the landscape. There is much more going on than the IT department lets on, however. When a new sheriff of the silo begins to explore some dangerous secrets uncovered by her predecessor, she makes powerful enemies and stirs up forces that could lead to civil war. The characters are well-drawn, and even the villains have a sympathetic side. Secrets unfold with just the right pacing, and I had to set my e-reader down several times and say, \"Wow,\" when a major twist was revealed. The structure of the story, told in five interconnected parts, makes WOOL unlike a conventional novel, and gives it extra depth, much like the layers of the silo itself. I loved the feisty heroine Juliette especially, who endures so much tragedy and shows so much courage. And who can't relate to the notion of an IT department being run by nefarious villains who deliberately sabotage the exchange of information? If you're looking for a good post-apocalyptic read, you can't do much better than WOOL. It's targeted at adults, but is completely appropriate for YA readers as well. ...more There are many books that deny the hype and expectations associated with them. To a degree Wool is one of these books in that it is both better and worse than hype would inform you. Regardless it is a brilliant modern dystopian novel, a modern work with style and ideas similar to those seen in Ray Bradbury or George Orwell. When other readers try and argue that The Hunger Games or Divergent are the best modern dystopian novels, Wool is the novel that you point them to for correction. This novel c There are many books that deny the hype and expectations associated with them. To a degree Wool is one of these books in that it is both better and worse than hype would inform you. Regardless it is a brilliant modern dystopian novel, a modern work with style and ideas similar to those seen in Ray Bradbury or George Orwell. When other readers try and argue that The Hunger Games or Divergent are the best modern dystopian novels, Wool is the novel that you point them to for correction. This novel contains five books in one, though all five books are, in actuality, part of the one unfolding story. This story begins with a ritualistic 'cleaning', in which one man is sent from the underground silo to the outside. This outside world is destroyed entirely and the only glimpse of this world allowed from the silo is through one single camera. This camera requires cleaning, therefore certain crimes result in individuals being sentenced to die outside as they clean the camera. From the beginning this novel was excellently written to provide instant descriptive power and the impact of granting a glimpse into the emotions of the main character as he awaited his sentence, reflecting on his life. From this point on the reader is drawn into a plot about lies and truth within the silo, analysing the power struggles within this tightly controlled environment. What is the role of IT in this world? Are the cleanings so necessary? Is the truth more dangerous than the lies? These are questions prompted early on and later answered. The ultimate power of this novel is in how it is so character driven. As a result the reader can experience a beautifully written (not poetically but structurally or linguistically beautiful) novel that delves into the character's minds to look at the trauma and pain they experience in this gritty post-apocalyptic, dystopian, world. I've not seen this in many books or read a book that so seamlessly integrates description into plot, showing and not telling. At least that is what I felt about the novel. Finally, since the book stunned me and will probably now haunt me for the next few days, a look at the title. The title 'Wool' is simple and punchy, but at the same time a title that seems irrelevant to the book. A clever title designed to be thought provoking and in some sense, deep. The kind of postmodern title most books adopt these days. Yet I thought of several potential meanings for the title and I will briefly explain them: 1) Wool in connection to the idea of insulation or protection. 2) Wool as a metaphor for knitting, as most of the chapters are connected by knitting related titles. 3) Wool in connection to the idiomatic expression 'to pull the wool over your eyes'. Therefore the sense of being blinded to the truth. 4) Wool in connection to the phrase 'a wolf in sheep's clothing'. Again the deceptive element of wool where someone wearing wool can appear to be soft and caring but really be a true monster. 5) Wool in connection to all the above ideas, as a deceptive and soft insulative material with the capability to be used for multiple purposes (like many of the people and products in the silo). Ultimately while it may seem that wool can be grown and developed it is only dead material taken from the coats of sheep and therefore is a material that ends up cycled, much like the people and materials in the silo. Wool is deceptive and if you look further into it, and question where it came from and what it is, you begin to understand the reality of what wool is. Wool, is a multifaceted, multi-useful material. And it is the nature of duplicity that features throughout this book. I fully recommend you go and read this, taking into account your own personal reactions and not merely the reactions granted by hype and popularity. ...more Well, I didn't think this would live up to the hype or the reviews, but it simply does. With a slightly slow start I wasn't sure for a while how this would go but from the halfway point onwards I was devouring words like a thirsty person drinks water. I LOVED Jules, what a heroine and a half, none of this namby pamby female protaganist stuff here, nope, she was gritty, clever, determined, brave and gutsy. She was also darn handy with a set of tools, I am always impressed by that as even an IKEA Well, I didn't think this would live up to the hype or the reviews, but it simply does. With a slightly slow start I wasn't sure for a while how this would go but from the halfway point onwards I was devouring words like a thirsty person drinks water. I LOVED Jules, what a heroine and a half, none of this namby pamby female protaganist stuff here, nope, she was gritty, clever, determined, brave and gutsy. She was also darn handy with a set of tools, I am always impressed by that as even an IKEA Allen key throws me into much confusion. She is just ever so likeable. I was cheering for her every step of the way. By the point where I had it confirmed what I thought was going on I knew it was going to get better, and it did. I felt like I was right there in the Silo, seeing and feeling and sharing the experiences of those living in it. This is fiction that to be honest I can almost see as a possible (and very scary) future the way our world is going, it's not as far-fetched as some novels I have read, food for thought. Some other excellent characters in the book and I can see this being a movie or series very easily, no doubt it will happen. The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars was at times the long description of events or mechanical happenings/engineering moments took up too many pages, I guess if you were a Mechanical Engineer it would be better, it doesn't take from the book too much but at times I just wanted the descriptives to end and some action to happen, the latter half of the book certainly managed that. Sometimes less is more. It had me a bit glassy eyed in places. This is the Wool omnibus edition, so all five books in one, which frankly reads like an entire novel, you can't pick the end of or the start of the next book, very seamless writing. I will be reading the next books/omnibus in the series as very keen to see what happens next. Note: Sadly the follow on books in this series did not do it for me, after a great start I was very let down. For more of my reviews, book talk, recommendations and more, meet me at: https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat... ...more It's past my bedtime, and I have to work in the morning, so I'm going to try to bang out this review quickly. Apologies if, like many of my reviews, it's spastic and rambly and generally sucks. This book, omnibus, whatever has been on my reading radar for a long time. It's been recommended to me vociferously by one of my real-life-friends who, every time I tell her what I'm reading at the moment, responds with \"But have you started Wool yet? No? Tell me when you have.\" But one of the reasons why It's past my bedtime, and I have to work in the morning, so I'm going to try to bang out this review quickly. Apologies if, like many of my reviews, it's spastic and rambly and generally sucks. This book, omnibus, whatever has been on my reading radar for a long time. It's been recommended to me vociferously by one of my real-life-friends who, every time I tell her what I'm reading at the moment, responds with \"But have you started Wool yet? No? Tell me when you have.\" But one of the reasons why I'd been so reluctant to start it is simply the fact that there are so many parts. There's Wool's 5 novellas, which is a series on its own, if read that way, but then Wool is only book 1 of a larger series, called Silo. That's a little daunting, and I had to be sure of the reading order before I started because otherwise I get all twitchy. But I can see why friend was so adamant about me reading it. I was hooked almost from the very beginning, and felt the need to know more. I enjoyed the characters, the different story lines, the writing and the pacing and the mystery of it all. And it's rather ambiguous as well - which I liked quite a bit, though I wish that the main antagonist's character had been a little bit more in the gray than the black. I'm reminded of how the doctor from The Girl With All The Gifts was handled. It's the same kind of thing... from the perspectives of our protagonists, the antagonists seem evil and ruthless... but viewed in a big picture kind of a way, they are really the ones who are striving, even if it's in a misguided way, to help humanity survive. But, it gets a little morally murky there. Things are vague... but the explanation that we're given about the history of how things came to be this way is just... horrifying. There's no other word for it. It's not so much that the silo's ancestors destroyed the world... but the WHY that's so horrifying. The thought makes me literally sick to my stomach. Ugh. I fully admit that I don't understand the reason for the lies. I think that people, just by nature, are going to want to aspire to more... to stretch their wings (to be all cliche) and leave the nest. We're explorers and by nature we're curious. Was it just to cover up the deed that landed everyone in a silo and to control the people remaining? It seems like the lies would be more troublesome to continue with than the truth would be - and the wasted resources in fabricating the lie that ensures the condemned will clean seems... excessive to me. If the goal is the preservation of life, in a certain way... I think people are more willing to work towards a common goal than be held back by fear. One can only exist in a state of fear for so long before something has to change. Or maybe it's just late and I'm being idealistic again. There's not a lot of science in this book, and what is there is pretty vague. There's a lot more engineering and mechanical based jargon, which makes sense considering the world they live in and who the main character is. But I couldn't help but think about the real logistics of living in a closed environment like that, especially one that is holding itself in limbo for an unknown future. Not just about the big things like making sure that there's power and food and water and clean air... but resources would by nature be limited. So I think about things like clothes and shoes, right? Sure, I'm betting that they laid in a huge supply of coveralls and boots at the beginning. But these things wear out. And fast when they're worn all the time and actually used. I'd imagine that a porter, who's job is running up and down stairs with messages and packages and rumors would go through a pair of shoes in... I don't know, a month? Two? They're walking on metal grating, which is going to be more abrasive than other types of flooring, so two months would be on the high end. So their supply is going to run out very quickly. They can make more... but rubber, I would think, would be in short supply as well. They drill for oil and refine it to make gas to power generators and such, but are they also making other things from it, like rubber for shoe soles? Is that a Legacy skill? What about fabric? Are they growing cotton? Or is everything wool just because that's the title? What about sanitation? Unless the birth control that is only briefly mentioned at the end also prevents menstruation, there's going to need to be some sort of preparation for that. What about glasses? Nail clippers? Toothbrushes? Toilet paper? They live in a world of metal sunk into the ground... when was the last time anyone had a Tetanus shot?? Mental health care? Medicine? Probably in supply - but what about the skill and knowledge to make more? The supplies to make more? Are there even scientists? Emergency response teams? Firefighters? This leads me to my next question... If a specialized segment of the silo workforce is lost... how do they recover? For instance - Mechanical is at the very bottom of the silo, and they keep all of the power and machines that keep the silo running, well... running. They work night and day to make sure that these machines will last. So what happens if there's a an accident, like a fire or a flood, or an explosion or something, and they can't get out in time? These people have learned their jobs and skills by shadowing the previous generation and learning on the job. There doesn't seem to be a back-up plan if a segment of the population is lost. Yet when that happens, the solution is to send farmers down to be mechanics now. Led by someone who seems to have engineering skill, sure... but does that person have ALL of the knowledge necessary to keep an entire silo's machinery working? And the skill to teach others how to do that from scratch? It seems that there's a definite lack of planning in the running of the everyday silo operations - the planning was more geared toward controlling the people to ensure they never want to leave rather than preparing for situations which might leave the silo uninhabitable by accident. And speaking of farmers, I'm assuming that they are the ones responsible for keeping animals as well. What kind of animals are in the silo? I know of pigs, rabbits, rats, and dogs, and assume that there are sheep (because of the wool), but what else? Only food animals and dogs? No cats? Nothing else? Every single other type of animal on the planet is assumed to be extinct? That's horrifying to me, too. But ok, even if they did plan for preserving animals (and there is no evidence of this in the book) - where would they keep them? What if they weren't keeping LIVE animals, but their DNA or something, because this is presumably the future and we may have that technology... but that brings me back to logistics. How would they have compiled samples of every animal species in secret, and where do they store them, and are there scientists or people with the knowledge to figure out how to Jurassic Park them? I don't know. Still... if one doesn't think too much about the details, this is a pretty interesting and compelling book. I enjoyed it and I will definitely continue on with the series, because I'm curious and I want to know more. I'm sure that there's more that I have rattling around in this ol' brain of mine that I should have included in here... but I am tired and it's time for bed. So that is all. ...more I loved Wool ! Not that the title is that great. I realize Howey used the word \u2018wool\u2019 to symbolize a thick cloud of deception that encompasses his grim and terrifying world, but the word has other meanings like sheep and itchy sweaters that I think detracts from the sharpness of this fantastic story. Don\u2019t be fooled though, this is a wildly imaginative and thoughtful tale. I enjoyed it a lot. Howey is an excellent writer and has several things going for him. One is his vivid characters and rich di I loved Wool ! Not that the title is that great. I realize Howey used the word \u2018wool\u2019 to symbolize a thick cloud of deception that encompasses his grim and terrifying world, but the word has other meanings like sheep and itchy sweaters that I think detracts from the sharpness of this fantastic story. Don\u2019t be fooled though, this is a wildly imaginative and thoughtful tale. I enjoyed it a lot. Howey is an excellent writer and has several things going for him. One is his vivid characters and rich dialogue. I cared about these people. I didn\u2019t want anything bad to happen to them. So many apocalyptic stories are peopled with douchebags (it drives me crazy!) and that wasn\u2019t the case here. The villain has an agenda and I understood it, even if I didn't agree. And Juliet, Howey\u2019s heroine, is awesome! She\u2019s strong, compassionate, and clever (Howey shows you this too, instead of telling you. Yay!) She also doesn\u2019t lose her focus mooning over some guy. She\u2019s got a job to do and she wants to do it well. I loved it! Howey\u2019s other gift is his pacing. Wool opens up like an onion, revealing layer upon layer of mystery and treachery, the suspense almost excruciating. Yes the second book has a long passage of world building which probably could have been chopped down, but once that\u2019s over with the story doesn\u2019t slow down. And it\u2019s not endless action either. It\u2019s mystery. I simply had to find out what was beyond the silo. The next thing I loved about Howey\u2019s writing was his visceral description. I mean, wow! I was there, with Juliet and everything she goes through\u2026sight, sound, touch, and smell. A couple of scenes left me breathless. Another made me want to go wash out my mouth. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve been so completely pulled into another world in a long time. In fact, I dreamed about this world. If you read this right before you go to bed, I bet you don\u2019t leave. Lol I\u2019ve read in critical reviews that Howey goes into way too long descriptions about pumps and mechanical devices. But that didn\u2019t bother me. In fact, it just embedded me more in Juliet\u2019s point of view. After all, she\u2019s a mechanic and she would be focused on stuff like that. There is also some symbolism in Wool that added another dimension. Some of it is obvious, like the title, but others are more subtle. (view spoiler) [ For instance the number eighteen in numerology has the same meaning as \u2018The Moon\u2019 card in the tarot. The Moon stands for deception and warns that people are lying to you. That description completely fits Silo 18. Then there is Silo 17. Seventeen stands for \u2018The Star\u2019 which is a source of light and direction in the distance. But most stars are dead, their light having burned out years ago. That eerily fits. (hide spoiler) ] Howey originally wrote Wool as a nail-biting short story, and then added onto it. But there were some plot holes and unanswered questions in that story, so Howey spends some time trying to explain things in his subsequent books. I think for the most part he succeeds, but I\u2019m sure there\u2019s something nitpickers will find to pick apart. After all that\u2019s what we Scifi lovers do. Lol If I was going to knock anything, it would be the ending. I thought it was a little rushed and maybe a bit too convenient, but that didn\u2019t stop me from enjoying this. I highly recommend this exciting scifi story. ...more Many, many readers here (including many of my friends) have rated this book (these books) 5 stars. While I like the novel I can't go 5 stars. There are parts that truly annoy me. Still that being said I'm going to recommend it (as I've said before, the parts that annoy me will be what other readers like). Over all I'd go 3.5+. You have probably read the book's synopsis. For me to say any more would involve spoilers so I won't address much specifically about the plot etc. outside a spoiler warning Many, many readers here (including many of my friends) have rated this book (these books) 5 stars. While I like the novel I can't go 5 stars. There are parts that truly annoy me. Still that being said I'm going to recommend it (as I've said before, the parts that annoy me will be what other readers like). Over all I'd go 3.5+. You have probably read the book's synopsis. For me to say any more would involve spoilers so I won't address much specifically about the plot etc. outside a spoiler warning. A part of the point of this book (these books) is (are) the gradual revelations you get. In general this is a post-apocalyptic novel told in an episodic manner with shifting points of view. The writer develops a habit of setting up a sort of \"cliffhanger\" situation and then shifting to the other point of view for a while. The plot comes together very well and there aren't any major sticking points where you can look back and see internal problems. What's said makes sense inside the story. There are 3 things that tend to annoy me. The first he only does a couple of times and that's set up a situation...and drop back and give a long (usually not that interesting) flashback to tell about the person or world. The second I mentioned above. There is more \"book\" here than there needs to be to tell a good story. Howey frequently stretches the storytelling out...even drags it out at times. I occasionally wanted to scream and did a couple of times skip forward a little. (view spoiler) [ Juliet's swim up the stairs takes forever and while at first I was caught in the \"will she make it, what happened to Solo tension\" I hit an \"oh come on and get on with it\" point. I hit that point several times. (hide spoiler) ] . One of the things that gets drawn out is my third annoyance. The internal dialogues (Juliet needed to get her love life worked out on her own time not mine) and emotional tangles that had little to do with the story (and of course some of them did). On the whole I think there's something here for everyone but everyone won't like everything in the book... Try it for yourself I can recommend it. ...more What started as a colorful take on a closeted and dystopian narration with a science fiction bent, ran out of air sooner enough. All the unpredictability which my nourishment craving brain was ready to convert into goodwill, evaporated. The ending turned out to be incomplete, with the promise of more sequels on the way. I don't understand the hype for this book. Conclusion? It's a book not for me, but will find adoption in many a heart. My unfortunate brood is that I saw too much of Tolkien in What started as a colorful take on a closeted and dystopian narration with a science fiction bent, ran out of air sooner enough. All the unpredictability which my nourishment craving brain was ready to convert into goodwill, evaporated. The ending turned out to be incomplete, with the promise of more sequels on the way. I don't understand the hype for this book. Conclusion? It's a book not for me, but will find adoption in many a heart. My unfortunate brood is that I saw too much of Tolkien in the last chapters. A version of LoTR where Aragorn and Gandalf and Frodo are all crowned king, simply because the heroine is simultaneously all three. I rest my case. ...more Ok where shall I start apart from very carefully - I am always weary of commenting about famous or popular books as you can guarantee someone will come up and take a pop at you over criticising their bestest book ever! Okay that may be a little extreme but still what can be said that has not been said already. So that said I will put my hand up and say I enjoyed it - The book left me asking more questions than I think it gave me answers, although I will not go away to ponder them for days to come Ok where shall I start apart from very carefully - I am always weary of commenting about famous or popular books as you can guarantee someone will come up and take a pop at you over criticising their bestest book ever! Okay that may be a little extreme but still what can be said that has not been said already. So that said I will put my hand up and say I enjoyed it - The book left me asking more questions than I think it gave me answers, although I will not go away to ponder them for days to come I do wonder why do I invest in a book I know I will have to read on the series to find out more over. Yes I enjoyed the characters but still I didn't completely connect. The work that Mr Howey built is a fascinating idea but being an engineer I do struggle to see how it could work. One thing I will comment about - after seeing other peoples reviews about how the book was structured, was that it was originally self published and broken up in to parts - and reading further in to the books history it seems like both it and the author has had more than their fair share of adventures to get to this level of fame and awareness. So full credit where it is due and it certainly shows a level of commitment and perseverance that I know I would not have. which sort of makes me respect the man and his creation even more. So back to the book - I know there are more books out there ( as well as shared universe additional stories by other authors who expand on the who world of the Silo series) and I know that many if not all the secrets are kept back for them but the story itself is fair paced once you break through the whole setting the scenes chapters. One thing I will say and I am not sure if its part of the storyline or how the author writes but I do think that such an oppressive and totalitarian order has been sanitised and cleaned up and presented in a story of personal struggle and hardship. Now I am not making light of it - sometimes the more impressive impacts can be the subtlest but when you think about the reasoning behind the Silo world it is quite a nightmare to consider and I think is one that is waiting to be addressed later on. So my final thought - it seems of recent that post apocalyptic totalitarian dystopia fiction (now thats some mouthful) is getting a lot of air time especially when we see a lot of sassy young (ok Juliette is in her 30s) fight the system and win - but I do ask the question how do people let the world get in to that state in the first place, just wondering. ...more With great pleasure, I read this book. From the first page, I was simply drawn into the world of Silos. This dystopian world is also well presented and I felt as I read it is literally in the Silos with numerous underground levels in which people live for hundreds of years. The writer has evoked the world with such ease and enjoyed in this imaginary world through the book. In a hostile world that has destroyed large war, in the huge Silos live last remnants of civilization. At the top of the Sil With great pleasure, I read this book. From the first page, I was simply drawn into the world of Silos. This dystopian world is also well presented and I felt as I read it is literally in the Silos with numerous underground levels in which people live for hundreds of years. The writer has evoked the world with such ease and enjoyed in this imaginary world through the book. In a hostile world that has destroyed large war, in the huge Silos live last remnants of civilization. At the top of the Silos, there are four lenses through which to see the destroyed outside world. Live in the Silo is under strict rules with which all the people are kept in ignorance and obedient. But that's not the only thing that keeps them in obedience, there is a myriad of lies with which they use a certain layer of society at the top of government. Anyone who opposes these rules for whatever reason is thrown out of the Silos. After cleaning Holston who was the last marshal, in his place come Juliette, a mechanic from the deepest part of the Silos. Although she does not know anything about the law, she begins to explore the reasons why Holston voluntary departure in death, and soon realizes that everything around it is based on lies. Silos are beginning to deal with carefully hidden own past. All Juliette had previously believed decomposes into dust and her life is found in immediate danger. Believe me; the story will draw you into such vortices in this cruel world, where human life is worth less than a speck of dust. I enjoyed the whole book and I recommend it to all fans of dystopian science fiction, but also to all lovers of fiction. The story is great. ...more Wool... This must-read work of dystopian fiction happens in a ruined and toxic landscape where a community exists in a giant silo underground, hundreds of stories deep. There, men and women live in a mysterious and controlling civilization that is full of regulations they believe are meant to protect them. I wasn't sold on this one immediately, and I wasn't certain whether or not I should purchase it. In the end I'm really glad that I gave it a go as it's such a wonderful story and interesting se Wool... This must-read work of dystopian fiction happens in a ruined and toxic landscape where a community exists in a giant silo underground, hundreds of stories deep. There, men and women live in a mysterious and controlling civilization that is full of regulations they believe are meant to protect them. I wasn't sold on this one immediately, and I wasn't certain whether or not I should purchase it. In the end I'm really glad that I gave it a go as it's such a wonderful story and interesting setting. Actually, what finally took me over the edge to buy the book is I heard the author explain (well read him explain) that the impetus for this book was much more than wanting to write a story about a post-apocalyptic society living in a silo. I don't want to give what he said away because it'd be a real spoiler, but it was just dark enough to peak my interest, seeing as I mostly enjoy \"feel bad\" type material. Things really start going nuts when Sheriff Holston, who has unwaveringly upheld the silo\u2019s rules for years, unexpectedly breaks the greatest taboo of all: He asks to go outside. His fateful decision unleashes a drastic series of events. An unlikely candidate is appointed to replace him: Juliette, a mechanic with no training in law, whose special knack is fixing machines. Now Juliette is about to be entrusted with fixing her silo, and in enduring this great responsibility she will soon learn just how badly her world is broken. In the end the silo is forced to confront what its history has only hinted about and its inhabitants have never dared to whisper. Uprising. The original installment was just a short novel (only 68 pages) but this edition has the whole enchilada. Still it takes very little time to read and I never found myself bored or thinking of other things. In some ways you get to feel like you know the author even, if that makes any sense. He reveals a lot of himself in this book. I also knew from reading other reviews how the story would end and even knowing the goods I still enjoyed the book (imagine that). Even knowing what was going to happen, I didn't feel like I was trudging through the story just to get to the end. Perhaps, I wasn't quite as over the moon as most readers of Wool, but I must say that I really did enjoy it. The bad can really be encapsulated into small grievances like character development and information. We really could have used even more time to get to know a whole lot about the players or about the silo itself. Yet, there is something very captivating about the mystery of it all, and Howey shows his subtle brilliance by giving the reader just enough to make him seek more. The only issues I have with the book are some of the characters' motivations, as well as missing details on the history of the society and why they choose to live like they do. I mean, much of this is revealed, but I think the book would have been stronger if he would have included more of this. I.e., there are sparing details about the silo, the monitors and the society. It would have been great if he had delved more into the psychology of each character, especially what makes some people bow to authority while others question it. But in the case of WOOL, wanting more from the story is less a flaw and more a wish as this was still a wonderful book that I enjoyed. I also think the author succeeded in creating a world where I want to know more about the characters and that says a lot right there. We find out enough to know about Holston's hurts and to understand his motivations. We learn he's a good man, with people who care about him. We share his emotions and comprehend his loss. By the time I reached the halfway point, I really wanted to follow along behind the sheriff to see what outcome he was reaching for. Wool's prose is far from the best I've read, but it still gets the job done. With each section of the book that was written in installments, it's evident that the author just kept getting better and better as he honed his craft and gave readers what they want. Well I realize I just said a lot but I have a lot to say about this wonderful book. Give it a read and I'm certain you'll enjoy it as well! ...more I imagine most struggling self published authors would like to follow the trail blazed by Hugh Howey. He hit the ground running with the novella Wool which is now available as a free e-book. I can highly recommend this without reservation as it is free and very good. It is also very astute marketing as most people who read it are likely to want to know what happen next, even though it is not have a cliffhanger ending as such. I think as a standalone short story (or novella) novella Wool works ve I imagine most struggling self published authors would like to follow the trail blazed by Hugh Howey. He hit the ground running with the novella Wool which is now available as a free e-book. I can highly recommend this without reservation as it is free and very good. It is also very astute marketing as most people who read it are likely to want to know what happen next, even though it is not have a cliffhanger ending as such. I think as a standalone short story (or novella) novella Wool works very well, the surprise at the end is just the sort of thing people love in short stories. Wool is set (I believe) in the near future, the year in relation to our calendar is not indicated but there is no weird far future tech to speak of and people\u2019s names are the same as the common names today (Peter, Bernard etc.). The post-apocalypse and dystopian subgenre of sf is often mixed up by online list makers but the world of the Silo series is clearly both. After an apocalypse (unexplained in this book), humans live in a dystopian society, sealed in subterranean silos, under the control of a shadowy authoritarian government. The open air in the world outside is poisonous and the world is inhabitable, except inside the silos\u2019 sealed environment. The world building in this Wool Omnibus is top notch, it seems very vivid and easy to immerse into. The culture inside the silo, the long trips up and down hundreds of levels (by stairs only, no elevators) and the \u201ccleaning\u201d tradition are all very believably depicted. On the whole the book is quite well written, not in term of literary achievement but in the more important term of effective and involving story telling. My only complaint is that after the half way point I felt the pacing sags considerably. There is a substantial section dealing with a rebellion which I find to be less than riveting. Fortunately the narrative moves on to a very good and rousing climax. The author manages to pull yet another rug from under my feet when I thought he has already exhausted his supply of rugs. Characterization of the main characters is quite good, Howey switches the main protagonist two or three times and eventually settles with Juliette. Who is beautiful, resourceful, intelligent, brave, kind and tough as nails. Not exactly an original archetype but not a Mary Sue either; she has enough personality to be worth rooting for. Unfortunately she puts the other characters in the shade and when she is not in the narrative some steam seems to escape from the story. In fact I find most of the central characters introduced in the second half of the book are not quite as compelling as the previous ones. Still, I congratulate Hugh Howey for his wonderful success against the odds against self published authors (graphic novels, film rights sold etc.). Hopefully he will inspire many more authors of his caliber and I look forward to reading more from ten series. ...more I feel as though I really need to go to confession before I start this review. Bless me for I have sinned...I initially gave Wool #1 a 3 star rating. I did! I know. I know! I need to hang my head in shame. Please forgive me! Here's the deal. Someone mentioned the first book in this series was seriously discounted or possibly completely free. I picked it up. I read a few pages. I was HOOKED BEYOND BELIEF. Then, the book ended. I didn't know the book was a sequel, assumed it was a novella, and was I feel as though I really need to go to confession before I start this review. Bless me for I have sinned...I initially gave Wool #1 a 3 star rating. I did! I know. I know! I need to hang my head in shame. Please forgive me! Here's the deal. Someone mentioned the first book in this series was seriously discounted or possibly completely free. I picked it up. I read a few pages. I was HOOKED BEYOND BELIEF. Then, the book ended. I didn't know the book was a sequel, assumed it was a novella, and was exceedingly disappointed. Nothing written that good should end that abruptly with nothing tied off and finished off. And as a stand alone, it IS an excellent bit of fiction, but I don't LIKE short stories. Even when I know in my heart they are good, I resent them for their brevity. With this book being as amazing as it was, I was even more annoyed than normal with it. I gave it 3 stars, I moved on. Or did I? No, I didn't if I'm honest with you. I TRIED to move on, but I kept thinking about it. And thinking about it. And disagreeing with certain aspects of how groups of people in the story coped with certain things that happened. But then I started to think maybe I wasn't giving it enough credit, changed my mind and started finding it plausible again. Rinse, repeat. The book got in my head, which meant that it filled one of my major criteria for a 5-star rating. When you keep thinking about a book long after you've put it down, there's something about it that is special. At least, for someone like me, who has the attention span of a gnat. I found myself 'Google-ing' the author, wanting to know what else he had written, and BAM, I realized I was a moron and had overlooked that there was more to the series. Back to Kindle, found the omnibus, picked it up, and DEVOURED the book. I couldn't put it down! It was so well written, and yet so unclear what the final message would be, I read frantically with dread in my heart. Dread that the story would end on the same sort of cliffhanger, dread that characters that I cared about and had invested in would be tossed away, but most importantly..well... Most importantly I worried about what exactly this author, who is so gifted at making the reader FEEL something, would decide was the *message* of this book. I didn't want it to be an act of futility, and I cared enough about it to hold my breath and read at a frantic pace to try to rush to the end. I NEEDED to know what the truth of humanity would be in this world. What WAS the verdict? What was the message? I can't tell you that. I won't even tell you whether I found the ending disappointing or not. Spoilers. But I will say that this book is fantastically written, and it WILL become a classic work in this genre in the next 20 years, you can bet your bottom dollar on it. Yup, go read it. It's cheap, it's fab, it's worth it. ...more", "Title": "Wool Omnibus"},
