{"Comments": "<+++>Let's Pretend This Never Happened: A Mostly True Memoir</+++>I wrote this book so I think I'm required to like it. But I'd like it even if someone else wrote it. Although if they did I'd sue them for stealing my life story.<---F> How confusing</---F>. Much like the book. If you're looking for a Sedaris alternative, this unfortunately isn't it. Which kills me, because I get the feeling Lawson had the potential (<---B>and raw material</---B>) to knock it out of the park, but it just doesn't come together. <---A>Jenny</---A> Lawson is definitely funny. When she really gets going on a story, it's pretty fantastic - but that's only 10% of the book, and the remaining 90% is just awful. I can't help feeling like this book was all written in a single sitting, with little editing or review. It's u If you're looking for a Sedaris alternative, this unfortunately isn't it. Which kills me, because I get the feeling Lawson had the potential (and raw material) to knock it out of the park, but it just doesn't come together. Jenny Lawson is definitely funny. When she really gets going on a story, it's pretty fantastic - but that's only 10% of the book, and the remaining 90% is just awful. I can't help feeling like this book was all written in a single sitting, with little editing or review. It's uneven,<---M> it's all over the place</---M>, and some chapters feel like pure filler - I don't need pages of imaginary post-its written to her husband Victor, for instance. There are lots of places where I think we're just supposed to enjoy Lawson's rapid-fire babble, but it's not babble with meaning to it, it's just nonsense. And that's a shame, because it means the only reason I keep reading is because I'm waiting for another story like the turkeys to show up, and instead I get very tiny moments like the bobcat toss. It's like Lawson forced herself into writing a memoir when she really excels at writing moments. Drawback being, crafting an entire book of curated, arranged moments takes a hell of a lot of concentration and effort, while stream-of-consciousness nonsense is relatively easier.* I could do without the footnotes, which are just irritating - it is hard to explain how badly footnotes work on a Kindle, but between this book and Jasper Fforde I think I could make a compelling case. I could do without the editor's parentheticals (which weirdly are sometimes also footnotes). I could do without the long-winded flourishes that loop back in on themselves when talking about absolute rubbish. And that all sucks, because Lawson's childhood sounds enjoyably nuts. When she actually stitches a story together, one with multiple events and a timeline, it's HILARIOUS. But all too often, she's just throwing the punchline in there without much else. In the end, I guess this is where I end up with LPTNH: weird shit happens to everyone, but few people know how to structure the story in a way that legitimately entertains. Lawson knows how to structure a story, she's just not choosing to do it most of the time. Also, people are very capable of acting like crazy insane people quite frequently - if you sound too pleased with how wild and crazy you are and keep thumping on about it, it can get REALLY ANNOYING. * I do recognize that Lawson also writes about her general anxiety disorder, and she explains that she finds herself almost incoherent in social situations and is much better on email, when she can edit. But given that this is a book, it feels like a lot of the narrative flailing could have been avoided through editing. We definitely get a good grasp of what it's like to be inside Lawson's head, but she finds her condition exhausting and for a whole book, so did I. ...more First, I should mention that I listened to this one on audiobook. Didn't read the text version. Second, the audio version is read by the author. I think Jenny did a nice job with it, too. If you're used to nothing but professional audiobook narrators, there might be a few verbal ticks in here that might bug you. But me? For an autobiographical work like this? I'd much rather hear it in the author's own voice. Third, she got some actual laughs out of me. Not just amusement or smiles. Not just chu First, I should mention that I listened to this one on audiobook. Didn't read the text version. Second, the audio version is read by the author. I think Jenny did a nice job with it, too. If you're used to nothing but professional audiobook narrators, there might be a few verbal ticks in here that might bug you. But me? For an autobiographical work like this? I'd much rather hear it in the author's own voice. Third, she got some actual laughs out of me. Not just amusement or smiles. Not just chuckles. Real laughs. I was driving around in my car, alone, laughing like a madman. Fourth, several times I sat in the car after I'd finished whatever trip I was taking just to continue listening to the audiobook. Fifth, driving around, listening to this audiobook, I missed the proper turnoff several times. I didn't mind much, because turning around and driving back the right way gave me more time to listen to the book. Sixth, she made me cry reading this. Three times. Now admittedly, I seem to be rather soppy lately. But even given my recent emotional fragility, that's a mark of good writing some good writing. Seventh, the stories Jenny Lawson tells are, in turns: crushingly honest, funny, witty, sweet, heartbreaking, and delightfully bizarre. Lastly, I'd like to say that while I've read some of Jenny's blog, and I know of her considerably fame as The Bloggess, I didn't pick this book up because I was a fan. I bought this audiobook audio because I like her, and I've heard people say good things about it. After listening to it? Yeah. Now I'm a fan. ...more Skull and crossbones on this one if you're easily offended. So no whiners, okay? I mean it. Just....no whining. This is the most hilarious vagina memoir ever written. Okay, so technically it's not just about vaginas, but she mentions hers more often than anyone I've ever known who actually owns one. And besides, I had to throw that out there right at the start, so if you're going to get all upset you can just get it overwith and stay. away. from. the. book. Should you choose to read it anyway , d Skull and crossbones on this one if you're easily offended. So no whiners, okay? I mean it. Just....no whining. This is the most hilarious vagina memoir ever written. Okay, so technically it's not just about vaginas, but she mentions hers more often than anyone I've ever known who actually owns one. And besides, I had to throw that out there right at the start, so if you're going to get all upset you can just get it overwith and stay. away. from. the. book. Should you choose to read it anyway , don't come back to me all complainy about how crass she is. Oh, and also? This book is not suitable for people who dislike frequent interjections of words beginning with \"f\" and ending with \"u-c-k.\" And I mean with no letters in between the \"f\" and the \"u-c-k,\" so \"firetruck\" doesn't count. So just to be clear: To my knowledge there is no use of the word \"firetruck\" in this memoir. You've been warned. NB: Jenny's dad is a taxidermist, so there are also a lot of dead animals in this memoir. But there are some adorable live ones, too. Especially if you like robertcats. (I know, most people call them bobcats, but I prefer to use robertcat until we get to know each other better.) So be impressed. This book is chock full of curse words, and I managed to write my review without officially using any of them. ...more **edited...with content!** watch your fucking back, sloane crosley...this lady is funny -funny, not \"boys tell me i am funny at parties because i am pretty\" funny. i am so glad that kelly read this before me and it encouraged me to pick up my ARC and get into it far earlier than i ordinarily would have. BUT NOT EARLIER THAN I WOULD HAVE HAD I ACTUALLY WON THIS THROUGH THE FIRSTREADS PROGRAM, WHICH IS HOW THIS SHOULD HAVE GONE DOWN, GOODREADS!STOP WITH THE SNUBBING ALREADY! i had never heard of jenny **edited...with content!** watch your fucking back, sloane crosley...this lady is funny -funny, not \"boys tell me i am funny at parties because i am pretty\" funny. i am so glad that kelly read this before me and it encouraged me to pick up my ARC and get into it far earlier than i ordinarily would have. BUT NOT EARLIER THAN I WOULD HAVE HAD I ACTUALLY WON THIS THROUGH THE FIRSTREADS PROGRAM, WHICH IS HOW THIS SHOULD HAVE GONE DOWN, GOODREADS!STOP WITH THE SNUBBING ALREADY! i had never heard of jenny lawson before, but now i can't stop thinking about her. in a non-creepy way. i think. it's hard for me to gauge my own creepiness when \"enthusiastic\" can often come across as \"creepy.\" i am pretty sure i am just enthusiastic. and it wasn't love at first sight. there were a couple of things in the introduction and first essay that made me wince and hope that some of the \"look how hard i am trying!!\" missteps would be toned down before publication. i have no way of knowing whether they were. well, i do, but i am lazy. but there were still some genuinely funny moments, and i was on board as she recounted episodes from her childhood with her well-meaning taxidermist father and the...gifts and ...surprises... he would supply for her and her sister. oh, dear. i mean, a lot of the stories sound wonderful and magical like having goats and porcupines and raccoons just hanging out inside the house, wandering around, but for every story featuring a raccoon in jams, there is a story about accidentally running face-first into the carcass of a deer being hosed down in the backyard. and vomiting. inside the carcass of the deer. there's no way to come back from that, really. i love the fights she has with her long-suffering husband, i love her love of tiny taxidermied animals in period clothing, i love her habit of uncontrollably telling inappropriate stories and lies when cornered at dinner parties, i hate all the deadly things that surround her texas home... except the foxes. greg will like that story. i love that i laughed so loud and hard at portions of this book that i had to be checked on because \"i thought you were screaming.\" i was totally screaming. and i wet myself a little, too. it was that good. i love that she curses as much as i do. and talks about her vagina frequently. in many ways, we are the saaaaaame. we should get a drink together. wait, is that creepy? whatever. not a perfect book, no, but a book i liked enough that i am going to buy the hardcover because this ARC has blurry pictures that you can barely read the funny captions on, and the hardcover has these amaaazing patterned endpapers with pictures of animals on them. i love it. and i am waiting for the second book. call me, jenny. let's taxidermify sloane crosley. that was definitely creepy. shit. okay, so i thought i should give you a sense of her lunacy even though you could just go to her blog and see it, and even though it is totally illegal for me to do so since i only have the ARC, but i am kind of banking on the hope that that is one of those mattress-tag laws and no one will actually come and arrest me, although i would love to see what book prison is like. this isn't one of the passages that made me scream-laugh, but i totally understand her concerns here, and i am frequently startled at the shit we think of.....i like this part mostly because of all the caps and italics and energy jumping off the page....i'll just throw you right into it: THIS IS JENNY LAWSON: also, i just want to say that i think when the doctor is stitching your vagina back up (for real, child-free people: stitching. your. vagina. up. ), i don't know why they don't throw in some cosmetic surgery while they're down there, to make it look cuter. like, when my gynecologist told me that she'd probably have to cut my vagina, i was all, \"YOU ARE A FUCKING PSYCHOPATH,\" and she was like, \" not for fun [unspoken: \" dumb-ass\" ]. to get the baby out.\" and i said, \"oh. well' if you're going to have to scar me, could you do it in some kind of kick-ass shape? like, how about a lightning bolt?\" and she just stared at me, so i explained, \"you know...like harry potter's?\" then she just looked at me like i shit on the floor, and i thought maybe it was because the sentence structure kind of implied i was referring to harry potter's vagina, and so i clarified: \"but not on my forehead like his was.\" and she still didn't respond, so i pointed down and said, \" on my vagina \" then she shook her head like she'd know all along i wasn't referring to harry potter's vagina, and said, \"uh, we don't really do that. in fact, we prefer for you to tear naturally, because it heals better,\" and i'm all, \"MOTHER. FUCKER. are you fucking serious??\" and i kind of suspected she was just making that up because she didn't want me to have a nicer vagina than hers, because she's never had a kid and so hers was probably all perfect and cheerful, and she probably didn't want me rubbing my vagina in her face when it was all lightning-bolt awesome. like i would ever even do that, dr. ryder. i would never rub my vagina in someone's face, even though it would be the most badass vagina in the world. and whenever i have menstrual cramps i could just pretend that voldemort was close. ...more Basically the best review I can give this book, is that as a librarian I'm pretty much giddy with excitement waiting for the things people will come tell me after they've read this book. From the (boring) I loved that it was an honest look at mental illness and survival (very true) to the (no seriously I can not wait) YOU LET MY CHILD READ THIS AND NOW THEY WANT A DEAD SQUIRREL PUPPET and THIS BOOK IS BLASPHEMY AND READING IT KILLS PUPPIES AND KITTENS. I pretty much giggled in excitement when I w Basically the best review I can give this book, is that as a librarian I'm pretty much giddy with excitement waiting for the things people will come tell me after they've read this book. From the (boring) I loved that it was an honest look at mental illness and survival (very true) to the (no seriously I can not wait) YOU LET MY CHILD READ THIS AND NOW THEY WANT A DEAD SQUIRREL PUPPET and THIS BOOK IS BLASPHEMY AND READING IT KILLS PUPPIES AND KITTENS. I pretty much giggled in excitement when I won the advance copy, and then waited not really patiently to get my copy and then it came and I was away and that basically destroyed me and there was a 3 day long emotional trauma period. Anyways. I finally got to my copy and it was everything I wanted it to be. Heart-breakingly (also, it tries to auto-correct breakingly to lawbreaking. Fitting) wonderful, actually laugh out loud funny (not just LOL'd) and hands down one of my favourite memoirs and books out there. Go. Buy it. As soon as you can. I might buy it again so I can see the pictures. But then, I kind of loved that they were blurry. But I'm weird. http://vivalakt.blogspot.ca/ ...more Overall Rating: 1.5 I don\u2019t know if it\u2019s specifically American problem, but let me tell you, this is one of the worst memoirs I\u2019ve read. (Seriously America, do you honestly find this funny? O.o) And I\u2019ll tell you why, I\u2019m not just saying this because of some misplaced sense of spite, ok? When I first heard about this book, I was very excited \u2013 it sounded like a real good reading material and it had an awesome cover to boost with too. From the very beginning though, I realized it would be far from t Overall Rating: 1.5 I don\u2019t know if it\u2019s specifically American problem, but let me tell you, this is one of the worst memoirs I\u2019ve read. (Seriously America, do you honestly find this funny? O.o) And I\u2019ll tell you why, I\u2019m not just saying this because of some misplaced sense of spite, ok? When I first heard about this book, I was very excited \u2013 it sounded like a real good reading material and it had an awesome cover to boost with too. From the very beginning though, I realized it would be far from the book I expected. I have no idea who this individual(Jenny Lawson) is, but the whole book was one big mess, full of stories that were meant to be funny and unique (but were neither). Every single story felt forced and exaggerated. The author couldn\u2019t stop herself from constantly reminding and insisting her childhood was unique and that she\u2019s gone through SO MUCH and so on and so on\u2026 Well, be sure it\u2019s not. Maybe for someone living in modern America it\u2019s rarity to have to collect water in a cistern or to have wild animals for pets, etc, etc. But for the rest of the world it\u2019s daily occurrences. The only thing that this book makes me want is to slap the oh, so great nation of \u201cliberty\u201d and shout \u201c GET YOURSELF TOGETHER FOR FUCK\u2019S SAKE! YOU HAVE IT BETTER THAN SO MANY PEOPLE, AND STILL YOU ONLY WHINE! \u201d ...more JENNY LAWSON ATTACKED ME WITH A MACHETE!! OK, so I have never met Jenny Lawson, and she didn't attack me with an actual machete, but I'm being metaphorical here, y'all. Because reading Jenny Lawson's book made me feel as if I were being beaten with some kind of weapon, and it may as well have been a machete. Which is a word she uses in her book. She also likes the words chupacabra and vagina. And numerous swear words. She also likes postscripts. Lots of them. But back to the machete. I opened my re JENNY LAWSON ATTACKED ME WITH A MACHETE!! OK, so I have never met Jenny Lawson, and she didn't attack me with an actual machete, but I'm being metaphorical here, y'all. Because reading Jenny Lawson's book made me feel as if I were being beaten with some kind of weapon, and it may as well have been a machete. Which is a word she uses in her book. She also likes the words chupacabra and vagina. And numerous swear words. She also likes postscripts. Lots of them. But back to the machete. I opened my review this way to demonstrate how Jenny has written her memoir. She will say something totally exaggerated and in a hysterical voice, and then she tells a 30-minute story, after which you realize the thing that actually happened has nothing to do with what she claimed happened. For example, when Jenny says: \"I was attacked by a bear last night!\" What she really means is: \"I saw a stray cat by the pool.\" When Jenny says: \"I was mauled by a pack of wild dogs!\" What she means is: \"The neighbor's pet was excited to see me.\" When Jenny says: \"I was stabbed in the face by a serial killer!\" She means: \"The cat sat on my head while I was asleep.\" Halfway through the book, I realized Jenny Lawson is a fabulist and a narcissist. Put another way, Jenny Lawson is a very successful blogger. I think the terms have become interchangeable. Here is a quote from one of Jenny's chapters, in which she shares ridiculous and inappropriate emails to a coworker that she never actually sent: It is exhausting being me. Yes, Jenny, I understand that. I was exhausted just reading your book. At this point I need to clarify, as Jenny often does after she has made an absurd statement, that there are some funny stories here. Jenny had a wackadoo childhood in rural Texas, and her dad liked to drag dead animals home and scare her in the middle of the night. But after about 50 pages I recognized the template of her storytelling, and the repetitiveness of it wore me down. I considered abandoning the book, but so many friends had liked it that I wanted to push through. A few stories are quieter than the rest, such as when her beloved dog died, or when she relates her struggles with anxiety and depression, but there is always an undercurrent of mania. Most of the book is exaggerated fluff, which is fine for a blog, but I don't need it in book form. ...more Jenny Lawson (aka The Bloggess ) is seriously effed up, and that doesn't always equate with being seriously bleeping funny but in her case, this book will S-L-A-Y you. I laughed so hard in parts I shed tears (and a little pee I think). Just sayin'. For anyone out there with some incontinence issues already. Her frantic, stream-of-consciousness delivery (though punctuated with gems of insane hilarity) can get exhausting. Sometimes you just want to scream, \"Jenny, will you just shut the *&%@# u Jenny Lawson (aka The Bloggess ) is seriously effed up, and that doesn't always equate with being seriously bleeping funny but in her case, this book will S-L-A-Y you. I laughed so hard in parts I shed tears (and a little pee I think). Just sayin'. For anyone out there with some incontinence issues already. Her frantic, stream-of-consciousness delivery (though punctuated with gems of insane hilarity) can get exhausting. Sometimes you just want to scream, \"Jenny, will you just shut the *&%@# up already!\" -- imagine being stuck in an elevator with a coked up Robin Williams who just also happens to be sipping on a Red Bull laced with vodka. As horrible as that sounds, Jenny Lawson makes it work. Despite her frantic crazy energy, she will make you laugh your ass off, teach you how to curse like a sailor (that woman loves to let the expletives fly), force you to appreciate all of life's absurdities, face tragedy with (enough) dignity, and be grateful for every single blessing that you have. She also taught me that the most interesting person in the room is probably the one hiding under the table (or in the bathroom) hyperventilating. Only stupid people aren't locked and loaded for the zombie apocalypse (well d'uh, that one I knew already). That chupacabras are REAL. That people who tell you that acupuncture is painless are \"complete fucking liars.\" And most important of all, Texas may be big and beautiful and have awesome BBQ, but it's also where all the bitey, stinging things live. Today the exterminator came out to spray for scorpions again , and he left a note saying that he found an enormous snakeskin next to our house. Then I screamed, \"EVERYTHING IN THE COUNTRY WANTS TO KILL YOU,\" and Victor told me to go lie down. But then I went to look at the snakeskin, and I was all, \"This is a used paper towel.\" Then Victor said, \"Dude. That's totally a snakeskin that's been shed. Look at the diamond scale pattern,\" and I was all, \"That's a textured diamond weave to absorb more wetness. You can tell it's a paper towel because snakeskins aren't square. Or perforated.\" And I spread it out on the ground and then he was all, \"Huh. That is a fucking paper towel. I think we need a new exterminator.\" We're probably not going to survive the year. ...more I read lots of memoirs, but something about Jenny Lawson\u2019s Let\u2019s Pretend this Never Happened was different. REALLY DIFFERENT! It\u2019s not just the messed up lives thing which seems to be a prerequisite for memoir writers. In case you were wondering, though, dysfunctionality thrives in this book. And there is definitely no calm voice of reason beating it back. This dysfunctionality and the bizarre way it manifests energizes Lawson. How Lawson faces this reality, a really skewed and messed up version I read lots of memoirs, but something about Jenny Lawson\u2019s Let\u2019s Pretend this Never Happened was different. REALLY DIFFERENT! It\u2019s not just the messed up lives thing which seems to be a prerequisite for memoir writers. In case you were wondering, though, dysfunctionality thrives in this book. And there is definitely no calm voice of reason beating it back. This dysfunctionality and the bizarre way it manifests energizes Lawson. How Lawson faces this reality, a really skewed and messed up version of reality (but probably the one we\u2019re all in denial about) quickly approaches and passes warped! I\u2019ve seen the book described as profanity-laced stream of consciousness, but there are zany and very memorable stories mixed in with her (there\u2019s a squirrel) more distracted moments. It was entertaining to have a glimpse of this world. Good read! ...more I\u2019m not sure what I enjoyed more about this book. The actual laughing to tears moments while reading or the actual laughing to tears moments while retelling the stories to my boyfriend (who kept mentioning that he and Victor have a lot in common). It says a great deal about Jenny Lawson (of blogging fame) that at 38, she was able to write a 300+ page memoir that is interesting to read. Interesting, not because she is a celebrity or has boinked a celebrity, but because she has lived a strange lif I\u2019m not sure what I enjoyed more about this book. The actual laughing to tears moments while reading or the actual laughing to tears moments while retelling the stories to my boyfriend (who kept mentioning that he and Victor have a lot in common). It says a great deal about Jenny Lawson (of blogging fame) that at 38, she was able to write a 300+ page memoir that is interesting to read. Interesting, not because she is a celebrity or has boinked a celebrity, but because she has lived a strange life and has maintained a good attitude about that life. As Lawson mentions in her prologue, \u201cyou are defined, not by life\u2019s imperfect moments, but by your reaction to them.\u201d This sets the tone for the book. Lawson could have written a book about her parent\u2019s questionable child-rearing skills. She could have written a book about tearful issues with fertility. Instead, Lawson wrote a story that holds dark aspects but is told in a lighthearted manner. Lawson is able to play the role of an unreliable narrator with grace. I\u2019m not sure whether she truly believes in what she says or if she says she believes as such for laughs. Either way, it works for me. My only disappointment was at the end of the book, when I had turned the last page. I did not want this trip into the mind of Lawson to be over, I wanted to stay in her world for just a bit more. Luck for us, Lawson blogs about her life so that we can have a taste to keep us happy until her next book. I would recommend this book \u2026 to people with a dark sense of humor who do not mind stories coming from a lady with the mouth of a trucker. Well, if a trucker and a sailor had a baby, that baby would be Jenny Lawson. My favorite quote \u2026 \u201cMy God, this is going to be a terrible book.\u201d ...more I think there might be something wrong with my sense of humor. I tried to read this book but it's not making me laugh. In fact, it's making me annoyed. It reminds me of a whiny nagger who is all about \"me\". Oh right, it's a memoir. Anyway, I jumped to some of the chapters to see if I missed anything funny but it was all the same. I'm giving away my copy in the hope that someone may find it funny and not completely waste the tree that this book was printed on. i heard an interview with jenny lawson on npr and she was really interesting. i had read some of her blog and it was funny, so i got the book it's fun, and quite funny, but when someone moves from blog form to a published book, i expect the text to be more polished and streamlined. instead, this book reads like it comes directly from her blog with no editing, clearly there was an editor since she quotes the editor in the text, but it still doesn't read like there was one. anyway, it's worth a glanc i heard an interview with jenny lawson on npr and she was really interesting. i had read some of her blog and it was funny, so i got the book it's fun, and quite funny, but when someone moves from blog form to a published book, i expect the text to be more polished and streamlined. instead, this book reads like it comes directly from her blog with no editing, clearly there was an editor since she quotes the editor in the text, but it still doesn't read like there was one. anyway, it's worth a glance but i'd skip paying for it and just read her blog instead Also: comparing this text to David Sedaris in the book's main page is just silly. David can go from hysterically funny to heart touching with infinite ease. Lawson tries to do this, but ends up just making the sad things less moving than they should be. Merged review: I wanted to love this book soooooooooo much Jenny is a truly funny person, and her writing is decent, but the book felt like she took her blog and plopped it in a book. there were some things, like quoting her editor, that she clearly did for the comic value, but to my eye it just looked lazy i enjoyed some of her stories, but if i had to do it again i'd rent the book from the library instead of buying it ...more One of the perks at working at a large chain bookstore are the free Advanced Reader's Copies of future books. But I guess one really can't get an Advance Reader's Copy of a book that came out in the past. Although, strangely enough I've seen it happen. But I think it's because the store mail got lost. So I got this book for free. Which was awesome. Because when it finally comes out for reals, I'll think, HOLY CRAP I KNOW WHAT I'M GETTING! and totally buy it for like $45 minus my other perk of a One of the perks at working at a large chain bookstore are the free Advanced Reader's Copies of future books. But I guess one really can't get an Advance Reader's Copy of a book that came out in the past. Although, strangely enough I've seen it happen. But I think it's because the store mail got lost. So I got this book for free. Which was awesome. Because when it finally comes out for reals, I'll think, HOLY CRAP I KNOW WHAT I'M GETTING! and totally buy it for like $45 minus my other perk of a employee discount. It's like going used car shopping, but already knowing how awesome what you're gonna be bringing home is. I've also never read anything that made me laugh as much as this book did. I'd be reading on my lunch break and someone would be talking about that jerk customer or how that kid just threw up in the children's department and I'd be giggling hysterically over a big giant metal chicken. Although, seeing how my coworkers know me, they probably didn't think twice about asking why I was giggling. But more like how could I have fit a big metal chicken in my car. Because it wouldn't fit. Not even if I put my back seat down. Basically, it's like Jenny Lawson was secretly my mother. Which would be hard cause I'm almost 30 and she would have to had me when she was like 4 or 5 or something and even though she lives in the south I'm sure that's frowned upon. (sorry southerners) So yeah. It's like WE SHARE THE SAME HEAD. only she's from the south and I'm from Jersey. But it's creepy. Because I don't get paid to blog cause I don't really blog and I'm not that funny. But really. It's like laughing at all the things that go through my head, only it's someone else's. Also, I hope everyone who reads this review appreciates my 'zombie' and 'apocalyptic' tags. Because if you don't, you won't enjoy this book. EDIT: I AM GOING TO SEE JENNY LAWSON ON TUESDAY!!!!! SHE'S GONNA BE AT THE PARAMUS STORE!!!! EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE ...more I don't like David Sedaris. And I distrust \"funny\" books the same way I distrust sitcoms with laugh-tracks, because it's condescending and discourages thinking for yourself. I will not be coaxed into mindlessly laughing because there is a recorded track of a bunch of people (computers? robots?) mindlessly laughing. Good grief. So why did I buy this book? Well, because the Strand sells proofs for $2. I found this one, which I'd never heard of, thought it had a cool title, and then saw that the fro I don't like David Sedaris. And I distrust \"funny\" books the same way I distrust sitcoms with laugh-tracks, because it's condescending and discourages thinking for yourself. I will not be coaxed into mindlessly laughing because there is a recorded track of a bunch of people (computers? robots?) mindlessly laughing. Good grief. So why did I buy this book? Well, because the Strand sells proofs for $2. I found this one, which I'd never heard of, thought it had a cool title, and then saw that the front cover had been sort of vandalized: under the subtitle\u2014(A Mostly True Memoir)\u2014someone has pencilled in: About love Murder by Robert Verger and then the actual author's name is scribbled out. I thought that was absurd and hilariously great and totally worth $2. As for the book itself? Well, it turns out, as usual, that I was too knee-jerk-ily judgy: Jenny Lawson is fucking funny . Seriously funny. Like no-laugh-track-needed-goddammit funny. This is a terrific rundown of a crazy life\u2014her dad is a taxidermist, her husband sort of voodooed her into marrying him, they live in rural rural rural Texas. But there's a lot of \"normal,\" too\u2014she works in HR, she is often lonely, she struggles with depression and weird pains, she is a misanthropist mostly and socially awkward to a spectacular degree, she is a mother who is terrified of being a mother. And but then there are also episodes like her dog turning into a zombie, the time she went to her husband's company party with no underwear on (a fact which did not escape public notice), a hunt for a hidden burial ground in her neighborhood, childhood anecdotes of her father surprising her with a hand-puppet made from a dead squirrel, wild geese following her to school, and having to artificially inseminate a cow, as well as a million preposterously hilarious conversations between her & her husband, who make up the most lunatic and outrageously perfect pair. This is actually the only time I have ever been sad to be reading a proof, because it seems the actual book is full of photographs of most of the above, whereas in the proof there are only image callouts in brackets. I had to google her to find out what she even looked like, which was when I (finally) learned that Jenny isn't some random discovery I made\u2014she is a massively famous blogger, and most of the rest of the world already knows how hilarious and great she is. Which brings me to my final point. I was sort of planning to do a snarky editorial analysis of this book, as I often do. I was going to mention that the editing could have been a lot better, that she wavers in tone from super-casual to trying-too-hard-to-be-kind-of-formal, that there are many cases of the particular kind of repetitiveness that comes from lining up a bunch of short pieces that were originally written far apart from one another in both space and time. But then I read that this book is already on the New York Times bestseller list, and Jenny is already hugely popular among a certain set, and anyway like I said, this book is really really funny and fun and totally enjoyable. So maybe what the fuck do I know? Maybe I should take my editorial snobbery and just shove it up my own ass, because this book is great and people will love it and who cares if I think it could have been better. Who am I, anyway? I don't even know. Is this me giving up on literature? Or just finally accepting things as they clearly are and learning to stop bitching already and live with it? I didn't mean to get so woefully existential there. All I meant is: Jenny is super and you should stop reading this review and start reading this book. ...more Yeah...I thought I had it weird growing up. Besides being the daughter of an atheist father and a religious nut-job mother, Mom was also what the humane society likes to call a \"collector.\" (This is a polite way of saying \"animal hoarder.\") At any given time, we had a dozen dogs and cats (and I mean a dozen of EACH, not total!) living in the house. For years, I used the toilet with my mother's pet possum sleeping right beside me. Jenny Lawson had it worse than me, however. At least the animals i Yeah...I thought I had it weird growing up. Besides being the daughter of an atheist father and a religious nut-job mother, Mom was also what the humane society likes to call a \"collector.\" (This is a polite way of saying \"animal hoarder.\") At any given time, we had a dozen dogs and cats (and I mean a dozen of EACH, not total!) living in the house. For years, I used the toilet with my mother's pet possum sleeping right beside me. Jenny Lawson had it worse than me, however. At least the animals in my house were alive ...not bloody carcasses being used as ventriloquist dummies by my dad. Oh, and I never got MY arm stuck inside a cow's vagina. Things aren't quite as strange (or as funny) after Lawson grows up, gets married and has a kid. (Hell, even I managed to do those things...) It may seem that she and her husband spend an inordinate amount of time talking about zombies, rodents and chupacabras, but once you've been married for over ten years, there really is nothing else to talk about. My husband and I once had a conversation much like the one below, only I was the one unwilling to donate my organs...just in case, you know... JENNY: Why would you need them? (Your organs.) YOU'RE DEAD. VICTOR: What if I became a zombie? Huh, smart-ass? I'd be a pretty shitty zombie if they took my eyes out. I'd be biting poles and cats and shit. JENNY: So you're making a decision to not save someone's life on the off chance that it might be inconvenient if you turn into a less efficient zombie? VICTOR: It sounds stupid when you say it. Yup. That's married life. Hands down, my favorite chapter was Jenkins, You Mother****er . This one had very special meaning to me, as it entails the misadventures of Lawson and her father's herd of Wisconsin jumbo quail turkeys. Perhaps now would be the opportune time to mention that I left home not as everyone assumed, because I wanted to have sex with my boyfriend, but because my mother had started keeping a full-grown tom turkey in the kitchen and it attacked me every time I headed to the fridge for a Coke. So, high-five, Jenny Lawson. I know just where you're coming from. ...more FUCKING BRILLIANT. Like seriously... fucking.brilliant. And hilarious. Like I nearly choked on a sandwich while eating my lunch at work hilarious. This book is the \"mostly true\" memoir of Jenny Lawson, aka The Bloggess who was a poor kid raised in West Texas with poisoned drinking water, a father who practices taxidermy in the backyard and collects bobcat urine, a younger sister who swam with her in a cistern that they shared with pigs, a mom that wrangled them all into a family, and a menagerie of FUCKING BRILLIANT. Like seriously... fucking.brilliant. And hilarious. Like I nearly choked on a sandwich while eating my lunch at work hilarious. This book is the \"mostly true\" memoir of Jenny Lawson, aka The Bloggess who was a poor kid raised in West Texas with poisoned drinking water, a father who practices taxidermy in the backyard and collects bobcat urine, a younger sister who swam with her in a cistern that they shared with pigs, a mom that wrangled them all into a family, and a menagerie of pets including racoons, goats, and turkeys. Oh and she might be just a tiny bit on the mental side. It covers mini vignettes of her life from childhood, through high school, marriage, and children, and each story is crazier than the last! Oh and the photos! Yes, there are pictures, and you all know you love a book with pictures. They totally complete the hilarious package of this book that includes insanely funny stories, a shitload of cursing and sarcasm, and TONS OF CAPITALIZED AND ITALICIZED TEXT! Seriously. Everyone should read this book. This poor woman has to deal with a ton of shit in her life, yet moves through it all with a witty comment (or severely awkward thought/realization/idea/story that shuts up everyone around her) and some really good prescription drugs. You want to read this book. You will love this book. You will laugh your ass off at this book. And then you will fucking thank me for telling you to read it...and you know what, you're welcome. **** One of my favorite lines (which I especially love because I am from Texas and my father owns 3 gun cabinets) - \"In rural Texas pretty much everyone has a gun cabinet. Unless they're gay. Then they have gun armoires.\" ...more This book is a laugh out loud, get yelled at by your husband because your silent laughter is shaking the bed too much, entertaining book. I've never read the author's blog but really enjoyed the book. The only detractor for me was the over use of the F-bomb. Granted, I was assured that this is just the way that the author talks so I wont complain too much but I could have done without the overuse. Read it! 4.5 I Laughed So Hard I Peed a Little Stars Buddy read with some of my friends at Buddies Books and Baubles because after I read Beyonce the Chicken there was no way I was not going to read her book. Humor is a really subjective thing. Either something falls into stuff you think is funny or it doesn\u2019t. Regretfully my hubs LOVEs Jackass type humor and all Will Ferrell movies. But for me that stuff is hit and miss. Either I love it or I roll my eyes at the ridiculousness of the entire thing. Jenny 4.5 I Laughed So Hard I Peed a Little Stars Buddy read with some of my friends at Buddies Books and Baubles because after I read Beyonce the Chicken there was no way I was not going to read her book. Humor is a really subjective thing. Either something falls into stuff you think is funny or it doesn\u2019t. Regretfully my hubs LOVEs Jackass type humor and all Will Ferrell movies. But for me that stuff is hit and miss. Either I love it or I roll my eyes at the ridiculousness of the entire thing. Jenny Lawson is MY KIND OF FUNNY and I had the best time in her book. But is she going to be your kind of funny??? She will not be for everyone, so ask yourself these important questions: \u2460 - Do you like to laugh? I totally love to laugh\u2026I try to laugh at myself and others as much as possible. \u2461 - Are you okay with some vulgar language like the use of f-bombs? It is totally okay with me. My motto is you can say it if it is funny. \u2462 - Are you comfortable with references to vaginas? I have a Ronald Reagan (you\u2019ll get that if you listened to the audiobook) and I know what they do so again reference my answer to #2. \u2463 - Do you like humorous personal stories where some unexpected things happen, like a bobcat being thrown on you or a serial killer on the other side of the bathroom door tries to pass you a note? Well I do enjoy a good story with a serial killer in it and who doesn\u2019t think an unexpected bobcat being thrown in someone\u2019s lap is hilarious??? \u2464 - Do you like reading/listening to others peoples messed up lives that make you realize that \u201cno, you are not that crazy or fucked up and by comparison you are the pinnacle of sanity\u201d? YES, I love stories that make me laugh and realize that no matter what crazy things I\u2019ve said or done I have never had my arm stuck in a cow vagina and therefor really life isn\u2019t that bad. \u201cno matter how shitty it got, I could always look back and say, \u201cAt least I don\u2019t have my arm stuck up a cow\u2019s vagina.\u201d In fact, that\u2019s kind of become my life\u2019s motto. It\u2019s also what I say when I\u2019m at a loss for words when talking to people who are grieving the loss of their grandparents.\u201d But seriously while some of the stories were semi-serious with a big dose of funny mixed in most of the chapters and stories where just down right laugh-out-loud funny Dear Victor: I wanted to feel sorry for you sometimes while reading this because that your wife can seem to go off the deep end. But then I thought about and realized that for all the crazy panic attacky/or inappropriate things that come out of her mouth she really must be incredibly fun to have in a day to day world and she probably keeps you on your toes. A few of my favorite moments from the book were the conversations you had together even if they were bickering or bantering they seemed mostly playful and fun. That said I side with Jenny on the Snake, the Metal Chicken and Couch Etiquette (who knew there was such a thing) but I\u2019ll totally side with you on housework, the GPS and zombies. P.S. - I think Jenny\u2019s first book is so much fun I plan to listen to it with my husband on our next road trip. P.P.S - If you can get both the print edition because it has some super funny pictures and the audio since Jenny is so funny while she reads her own book. But really if you chose just one I HIGHLY recommend the audio. P.P.P.S \u2013 Here are a few quotes from inside the book. Because seriously had I read some of these I probably would have read her book sooner. Or at least followed her blog. Family dynamics \u201cThe Dangerous Thesaurus of My Father.\u201d An abridged version: \u201cIt\u2019s very excited.\u201d = \u201cIt has rabies.\u201d \u201cNow, don\u2019t get too attached.\u201d = \u201cI got this monkey for free because it has a virus.\u201d \u201cNow, this is really interesting.\u201d = \u201cYou\u2019ll still have nightmares about this when you\u2019re thirty.\u201d High School Embarrassing Moments \"And that\u2019s how I ended up shoulder-deep in a cow\u2019s vagina, squishing out the semen baster as a bunch of teenage boys looked on. It was the closest I\u2019d ever come to doing porn. Falling in Love \"I wanted to cheer him up, but it felt weird wanting to cheer up someone who was possibly depressed because they didn\u2019t murder you correctly, and that\u2019s when I thought, \u201cThis must be what love is. When you want to make it less difficult for someone to murder you.\u201d And that\u2019s when I realized that I was far too in love with him for my own good, and also that I probably needed therapy Having a Baby \"Like, when my gynecologist told me that she\u2019d probably have to cut my vagina, I was all, \u201cYOU ARE A FUCKING PSYCHOPATH,\u201d and she was like, \u201cNot for fun [unspoken: \u201cdumb-ass\u201d]. To get the baby out.\u201d And I said, \u201cOh. Well, if you\u2019re going to have to scar me, could you do it in some kind of kick-ass shape? Like, how about a lightning bolt?\u201d Meeting New People \u201cI've found, though, that people are more likely to share their personal experiences if you go first, so that's why I always keep an eleven-point list of what went wrong in my childhood to share with them. Also I usually crack open a bottle of tequila to share with them, because alcohol makes me less nervous, and also because I'm from the South, and in Texas we offer drinks to strangers even when we're waiting in line at the liquor store. In Texas we call that '_southern hospitality_.' The people who own the liquor store call it 'shoplifting.' Probably because they're Yankees. I'm not allowed to go back to that liquor store.\u201d Jenny\u2019s Vagina \u201c...I just want to clarify that I don't mean 'without my vagina' like I didn't have it with me at the time. I just mean that I wasn't, you know...displaying it while I was at Starbucks. That's probably understood, but I thought I should clarify, since it's the first chapter and you don't know that much about me. So just to clarify, I always have my vagina with me. It's like my American Express card. (In that I don't leave home without it. Not that I use it to buy stuff with.)\u201d Overall - If you just need a good time and a good laugh than save this for then. There were so many wonderful moments in this and I loved the time I spent with Jenny and her myriad or misadventures and life\u2019s learning experiences. I laughed so hard in some spots I might have peed a little. ...more When Jenny Lawson relates a childhood story she's funny and engaging...but so far, that's only occurred for about 10% of her writing in this book. The other 90% I've read is just terrible. The parenthetical ramblings and anxious Turrets-style outbursts quickly get old, and they distract from some of the really funny and entertaining bits. Everything is \"totally\" or \"basically\" life-threatening or she's stabbing or kicking someone in the balls \"in her head.\" Her nervous, panicky breakdowns feel l When Jenny Lawson relates a childhood story she's funny and engaging...but so far, that's only occurred for about 10% of her writing in this book. The other 90% I've read is just terrible. The parenthetical ramblings and anxious Turrets-style outbursts quickly get old, and they distract from some of the really funny and entertaining bits. Everything is \"totally\" or \"basically\" life-threatening or she's stabbing or kicking someone in the balls \"in her head.\" Her nervous, panicky breakdowns feel like an act -- an act that has gotten her laughs in the past, so she leans on it rather than exploring her more genuine writing talents. Her constant arguments with her husband are particularly tiresome -- they're like that one couple everyone knows who like to argue in front of other people, playing up the theatrics of their exasperating roles. I'm 70% through the Kindle version, and I don't think I can continue. But, I'm giving two stars because, hidden in the muck, there are a few gems here. This is one in a slew of recent books that many friends have rated highly, where I'm left clueless after reading. Is it me? ...more Let's Pretend This Never Happened (A Mostly True Memoir) is a collection of stories from the life of Jenny Lawson, who is also known as The Bloggess on her blog of the same name. I was somewhat familiar with Lawson from reading bits of her often irreverent blog posts and laughing my ass off. She talks about a whole range of topics from childbirth all the way to squirrel puppets. Anyone who knows me knows that I love a good story. I love telling them and I especially love hearing them. The more a Let's Pretend This Never Happened (A Mostly True Memoir) is a collection of stories from the life of Jenny Lawson, who is also known as The Bloggess on her blog of the same name. I was somewhat familiar with Lawson from reading bits of her often irreverent blog posts and laughing my ass off. She talks about a whole range of topics from childbirth all the way to squirrel puppets. Anyone who knows me knows that I love a good story. I love telling them and I especially love hearing them. The more awkward or unbelievable the better. With the caveat that some of these stories are not about me, I tell random stories about puking on the Hoover Dam, making wax casts of vulvas, blacking out and waking up in the bed of a truck with no pants on, peeing in a sleeping bag, naming and caring for a bottle of mold, letting a homeless man sleep in the basement, and accosting people in a deviled egg costume. And you know what? People enjoy these stories. But you have to play to your audience, so a lot of the time I'm just sitting there, making small talk and shooting the breeze. This book is mostly a collection of the kinds of stories I love, but there are definitely moments, nay, entire chapters of more seriousness that reminded me that I was listening to a memoir and not an entirely humorous book. Lawson's book was actually our book club pick of the month and it received varied reactions. One of the most interesting points that a friend of mine brought up was that the book rubbed her the wrong way because it perpetuated society's promotion of the \"neurotic woman.\" She cited a lot of reality television participants and their over-the-top personalities and how our need for entertainment has created the idea that doing seemingly outrageous things is now commonplace and acceptable. I'm not sure I agree with her wholly, but I do know that it may not apply to Lawson, as she discusses in the book her multiple psychological and physical diagnoses and how they affect her everyday life. However, the book does definitely straddle the line of funny and... I'm having a hard time picking a word here. Listen, we all have our things. We all have our pain, our loves, our worries, dreams, hopes, past, nightmares, (insert whatever here). Everyone's life is their own and no one can actually experience someone else's every thought. But at the same time, we are all human and no one is totally unlike every other person alive. We have commonalities with other people, even in terms of thought processes, so it annoys me when people make it seem like they are so unlike everybody else. Unique snowflakes? No. But it must be hard to try to write stories in the funniest way possible without sounding like a try-hard. A few times Lawson fails at this but she overwhelmingly succeeded for this particular reader. I am certain that many of Lawson's stories will stick with me for a long time and there are definitely some mental images that I wish I could erase from my mind. For example, she tells a story about turning around and walking straight inside a deer carcass by accident. Another about how her vagina felt after childbirth. And several dead animal stories. I'm not offended by most things, but I can see how this book would be too much for some people. However, Lawson addresses that in the very beginning of the book. You'll know after just a few pages whether or not you are on the same page as she is in terms of humor, and if you are, the book is consistently funny. You can check out her blog , her YouTube channel , or listen to a quick sound bite from NPR here to form your own opinion. (there is also an excerpt from the book on the NPR page) As I listened to the audiobook, which Lawson narrates, it was fun to hear her talk about the pictures in the book, but I did feel like I was missing out to an extent. Luckily for me (and you!), the official book trailer includes some of the pictures, including a raccoon in pajamas and an alligator on an airplane! Here's the book trailer As a narrator, I thought she was engaging and she is a natural storyteller. The audiobook is absolutely conversational, in a way that I haven't experienced before but which I enjoyed. (Flash to Home Alone when Macauley Culkin talks about washing inside his belly button.) She occasionally diverged from the book for a moment or two, but I think it added to the experience because she was forced to describe the omitted pictures and elaborate on what we were missing in audiobook format. A huge bonus to listening to the book is the bonus story and bloopers which are included at the end. Lawson recounts her first job at a sno-cone shack during the sweltering Texas summer and that awkward moment when someone touches a body part to ice and it gets stuck. And no, it isn't something as funny as the tongue scene in A Christmas Story. I told a guy the punchline of that story and his eyebrows almost shot up off his forehead. Jenny Lawson jokes about how she saved tons of stories for book two and I have no idea if she was joking or not, but I really hope she wasn't. I'd read that. I'd read it in a second. (or listen to it, as it were.) I'm giving away the copy of the audiobook I won myself from Lucy at The Reading Date . If you want to enter (US only, sorry), head over to The Readventurer . ...more Oh, Jenny. There is something so completely... extravagant \u2002[ik-strav-uh-guhnt] Part of Speech: adjective Definition: exceeding the bounds of reason, as actions, demands, opinions, or passions. Synonyms: absurd, bizarre, crazy, exaggerated, excessive, exorbitant, extreme, fanciful, fantastic, flamboyant, flashy, foolish, grandiose, immoderate, implausible, improvident, imprudent, inordinate, lavish, ludicrous, nonsensical, ornate, outrageous, preposterous, pretentious, prodigal, profligate, reckless Oh, Jenny. There is something so completely... extravagant \u2002[ik-strav-uh-guhnt] Part of Speech: \tadjective Definition: \texceeding the bounds of reason, as actions, demands, opinions, or passions. Synonyms: \tabsurd, bizarre, crazy, exaggerated, excessive, exorbitant, extreme, fanciful, fantastic, flamboyant, flashy, foolish, grandiose, immoderate, implausible, improvident, imprudent, inordinate, lavish, ludicrous, nonsensical, ornate, outrageous, preposterous, pretentious, prodigal, profligate, reckless, ridiculous, showy, silly, unbalanced, unrestrained. about this (mostly true) memoir. That about sums it up. ****************************************************** Notes on the audiobook: One, it's rather adorable, as she is the reader. Her attempting to verbally describe pictures and footnotes that would be in the book version cracked me up, leaving me wondering if I should read the written book just to compare. Two, Jenny shines at non-sequitur chains of ideas, at capturing a conversational tone in her writing, and at appreciating oddity. For me, she is at her best when capturing a 'funny-but-odd' situation, segueing into nutty metaphors and bringing it back to the odd situation. A perfect example is her description of a childhood horror that resulted from her father cleaning a deer. She amusingly sets the scene, then tangents off on an aside for \"sensitive PETA members\" on what \"cleaning a deer\" means: \"You get some warm water, and some tearless shampoo, and you gently massage the deer. Lather, rinse, but don't repeat even though the bottle says to, because that's just a ploy to sell more shampoo, blow dry on low heat and hot-glue a bow on his forehead. Send him back into the woods to meet a nice Jewish doe. Go to the next chapter.\" She then shares what really cleaning a deer means for \"curious, non-judgmental readers\"--and it apparently involves the \"poop rope,\" the first time I've been privileged to hear that \"French\" expression despite having a deer hunter father as well. Once that is finished she returns to the truly horrible experience of running into the hanging carcass. And throwing up. And her father's version of the \"Grizzly Adams five-second rule.\" Likewise, \"bonus\" chapter titled \"Balls\" was a delight, and perfectly captures oddball humor and the even odder people around her. She balances the laughs created by her naivate, the ridiculous extrapolation of a situation (think tongue-on-ice and short-shorts) and compassionate (their vengeful Sno-cone fund-raiser). Two-point-five: : It doesn't happen often, but occasionally there are sound effects accompanying the audio. The knife sharpening in the deer section was a sinister touch. Two-point-seven-five: She sings the chapter titles. It is truly an ear-cringing experience. Three, I suggest numerous listening/reading breaks. She is overwhelming, particularly in the section of the book that deals with her relationships. Funny as hell, but listen too long and I run the risk of diminishing returns from sheer exhaustion. Four --and this may be just me--but I found myself melancholic at times, particularly the chapter about the women bloggers' weekend, the section on her 'detoxification by laxatives,' the post-it exchanges with Victor, and the dog burial. Mental illness runs through the book and is rarely discussed openly, except in the chapter that she talks about her social anxiety, general anxiety disorder and panic attacks. There's a whole lot of sadness left out of a story about a miscarriage, and from her abridged explanation, a whole lot of crazy. The crazy is almost always played for laughs, and while I get smiling through the pain, appreciating uniqueness, holding one's head high, making lemonade, sharing the pain, etc., etc., I just don't know. It was a thin line that sometimes felt closer to laughing at someone with cancer than with them. (No, no one in the book had cancer. That's just my metaphorical way of saying laughing at mental illness' oddities is a lot like laughing at someone struggling with cancer. It can be all-consuming, can come endowed with lots of symptom baggage and can be a constant struggle. And they probably had about as much choice in the matter. So even if they play the clumps of hair falling out for laughs--and many people do--it still represents a whole lot of hurt behind the smile. And, now that I think about it, there is that same sense of trying to conceal the horror as I watch it happen). Five, for her sake and the sake of the millions living with mental health issues--because don't fool yourself, most people have a fissure that just takes the right experience to break it open--I hope she claims some political power and doesn't just settle for laughs. A wavering three-and-a-half stars. Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0... ...more This is the perfect book to read if you\u2019re constipated, because the abdominal spasms caused by your hysterical laughter will have to create a bowel movement. This is also only the second book that has ever made me vomit. The first book was a History of Cannibalism. To be fair I was running on the elliptical, already a task for me, and I was doing fine until I flipped the page and there was a picture of HUMAN ARMS HANGING OVER A FIRE. I this point I gagged, and my gag reflux is such that I keep ga This is the perfect book to read if you\u2019re constipated, because the abdominal spasms caused by your hysterical laughter will have to create a bowel movement. This is also only the second book that has ever made me vomit. The first book was a History of Cannibalism. To be fair I was running on the elliptical, already a task for me, and I was doing fine until I flipped the page and there was a picture of HUMAN ARMS HANGING OVER A FIRE. I this point I gagged, and my gag reflux is such that I keep gagging until I vomit a little. I gagged reading this book because I think it was my body\u2019s last desperate attempt to get air back into my lung because I don\u2019t think I'd breathed in the last ten minutes. And my eye was twitching like crazy. I had tears rolling down my face. My dogs were staring at me very concerned. Luckily I lived and was able to proceed past the introduction and on to chapter 1. Although, I may have internal bleeding. Worth it. Yes, it really is that fucking funny. Alternately it is very honest and touching. We all have our struggles, what makes us strong is our ability to laugh at them. Thankfully I do not suffer from depression like Jenny, but I do have anxiety (inherited from my mother, and her mother before her, and before that it was Vikings, and I doubt they were ever anxious about anything\u2026), and I have very severe IBS. It\u2019s not fun, but I get through it, because later I can laugh about it. It\u2019s good to see other people doing the same. So cheers to Jenny! PS: In relation to the existence of water-breathing squirrels. Jenny, squirrels TOTALLY swim. You are right. Lewis and Clark actually documented it. Apparently there used to be giant squirrel migrations, and the squirrels would swim en masse across rivers to get to the other side. This is a fact. I can totally even find it for you in some very authoritative books. I thought you might want to point this out to Victor/friends/family et al. PPS: Snausages. PPS: My husband is disturbed by my new found love of crazy taxidermied animals. He blames you. I told him it\u2019s not your fault, it\u2019s totally his, for having grown up on a farm and not introducing me to the fact that THESE THINGS EXIST. I mean, really, who doesn\u2019t want a bandito squirrel. We have all black squirrels where I grew up, they\u2019re pitch black, apparently Iowa and Nebraska is the only place where this happens. I said I wanted a black bandito squirrel. He said that it was racist. I said he was racist for assuming it was racist, and that all black squirrels are alike. Also, wtf spell check, taxidermied is TOTALLY a word. Ok, looked in the dictionary, it\u2019s not. But that\u2019s just stupid. ...more YOU: \"Wait. Erica? You just read this book.\" ME: \"Yes. I did.\" ( Here's the review ) YOU: \"No, but I mean you JUST read this book. Like, two weeks ago.\" ME: \"Wow! You're pretty observant. Why are you watching my Goodreads feed? You know, just out of curiosity...one stalker to another. That kinda thing.\" YOU: \"What? You are SO weird. I wanted to know why you're listening to the audiobook if you just read the hardcover.\" ME: \"You probably should have asked me that in the first place instead of stating an YOU: \"Wait. Erica? You just read this book.\" ME: \"Yes. I did.\" ( Here's the review ) YOU: \"No, but I mean you JUST read this book. Like, two weeks ago.\" ME: \"Wow! You're pretty observant. Why are you watching my Goodreads feed? You know, just out of curiosity...one stalker to another. That kinda thing.\" YOU: \"What? You are SO weird. I wanted to know why you're listening to the audiobook if you just read the hardcover.\" ME: \"You probably should have asked me that in the first place instead of stating an obvious fact. Right?\" YOU: *sigh* \"Yes. I should have done that. I see that now. I am going to not discuss this with you any further because you are a freakin' psychopath.\" ME: \"Well, YOU are the one following my Goodreads feed, so...this is all your fault.\" You can tell I've been over-Bloggessed lately, can't you? Here's what happened: I put both the hardcover and the audiobook on hold at the library. The hardcover came to me first (both because I knew it was going to be published before we'd even ordered it so I demanded it be ordered and was rewarded with being one of the first people on hold for the title AND because the audiobook was delivered a week after the physical book). I thought about cancelling the audiobook hold but then thought it would be fun to hear Jenny (we've traded an e-mail or two and so I feel we're on a first-name basis now)(mostly because she never answered my question on what I should call her so I assumed she didn't care and I just use her first name but sometimes I use cutesy nicknames, too) read her own book so I kept the hold and it came in and I started listening to it but then I had to give it back but now I have it again and am finishing listening to it. Whew. Some main differences between the hardback and audiobook versions: 1) Um obviously one is read BY you and one is read TO you unless you had someone reading the hardback to you; 2) Jenny sings the titles of each chapter and this is at first weird but after about two chapters becomes hilarious. I'm not sure why, but it does; 3) The director/sound crew made some odd choices for soundtrack noises. On one hand, what were bullets in the book are now represented by the shotgun cocking noise, which is clever. On the other hand, there's a mish-mash of barnyard noises mixed with fantasy-esque harpish music. Sometimes there's twangy country music going (makes sense what with Texas being the setting, and all) and other times there are strange noises like a knife being sharpened (which was in context but really ought to not have been done) or watery sounds (to represent washing a deer with baby shampoo)(also should have been skipped). So this sometimes pleasant addition to the story, but more often distraction, is not part of the hardback experience (again, unless someone did all that for you while reading it aloud); 4) OH! The Library edition? The one repackaged by Midwest Tape? Well, it does NOT have Hamlet von Schnitzel on the cover! I guess Midwest couldn't secure the rights to the cover art or they have an aversion to Shakespearean mice because the cover of this edition is the top quarter of a brunette woman's head and her hair is in blue curlers. The woman in question is probably clip art; I'm pretty sure she's not Jenny. Alright, I finished listening to this last night on my long drive home. Now, before I continue, I would like to point out that yes, I realize I gave the hardcopy four stars. I really liked the book but I'm not going to sleep with it every night like it's a teddy bear or anything. However, I might do that with the audiobook and that's why it gets five stars. You can totally tell Jenny has a cold while reading this book; she goes all raspy at times and all her \"ng\"s come out as \"nk\"s, so \"interesting\" is \"interestink\" and it made me go, \"Oooh...Jenny, you poor thing. Here, let's heat up some whiskey and dump it in a tumbler full of lemon and honey for you. And maybe some vanilla. And black pepper. And vodka. This will help, sweetie.\" So my heartstrings were tugged just by her mildly stuffed-up voice. But the clincher? There's a bonus chapter at the end of the audiobook that is not in the hardcover. It's pretty funny. It is not, however, as funny as the well-used end space of the last CD. You know how after the credits are spoken, there are sometimes ads for other books you might enjoy and then the disc ends? Yeah, well not this time. This time, it's Jenny rambling on like a nutcase. This worked for me for a number of reasons: 1) I hadn't been expecting to hear her come back on and just start talking, so that was a fun surprise; 2) Listening to her blathering on about random crap was a lot like having a friend on handsfree talking to me while I was driving, that's how conversational it was; 3) Because I was driving in the dark, I could totally pretend Jenny was not even on handsfree, but was sitting in the passenger seat having a normal conversation (because it totally sounded like a conversation that would happen in my car); 4) I now realize nothing is funnier than hearing \"VUH-JYE-NUH!\" yelled in a raspy voice when you're not expecting it (or the Spanish Inquisition); 5) This is not actually a reason I enjoyed this part of the CD - I had to pee because I was driving a long way and had just had some tea (not cat pee tea, which sounds like Cat PT which could be Physical Therapy for a cat unless CAT stood for something other than the feline) and I was laughing too hard, which hurt my bladder in a most tortuous fashion, and I was yelling, \"STOP! JENNY! STOP!!!!\" and I could have just turned off the CD but remember, I had come to believe she was in my passenger seat and the only way to stop her would have been to kick her out of the car and I don't think she's ever been to Colorado, so she'd get lost if I just left her on the side of the road, especially since her GPS is out to get her. Also, kicking people from your car because they are making you laugh too hard is sort of stupid. Besides, my ejector button broke years ago so it's not like I could have kicked her out anyway. The point here being, my ride home was far more uncomfortable than it would have been had I just plugged my iPod in and listened to music. I loved this CD. I just adored it. Only, I want to fire the sound engineers because SERIOUSLY, people, you HAVE to remember that sometimes readers will be listening to these audiobooks in their cars and they will be driving through busy intersections so it is a very terrible idea to put the sounds of honking traffic on the CD! That was a deplorable decision, sound engineers, and I would have your job for scaring the hell out of me like that if I could. And, again, the random and bizarre music, the random and bizarre sound effects...it's just poorly executed and after those blaring horns while I was in the intersection...well, I'd like to see those sound people poorly executed, too. Other than that, though - best audiobook ever. Pretty much. PS - hilarious (only to me) aside: Near the end of my drive, I came upon the Ronald Reagan Highway (don't ask) and she said Ronald Reagan just as I saw the sign that said Ronald Reagan Highway and that made me realized, \"Huh. That now translates to Jenny Lawson's Vagina Highway. That girl's vagina gets around. And is really long. I am disturbed.\" ...more 12/14/15: BR over at BB&B . And it couldn't be better times b/c I NEEDS a good laugh after the week I just had. SAVE ME, Blogess-lady! I pre-ordered this book at Amazon as soon as I heard about it. I've been reading The Bloggess for years, watched her struggle with her rheumatoid arthritis, her social anxiety, and her depression, all the while being one of the most joyful and optimistic presences on the internet. I was happy for her on a personal level that I rarely am when bloggers get book deals, and besides my real affection for her, I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that Let's Pretend This Never Happened isn't rea I pre-ordered this book at Amazon as soon as I heard about it. I've been reading The Bloggess for years, watched her struggle with her rheumatoid arthritis, her social anxiety, and her depression, all the while being one of the most joyful and optimistic presences on the internet. I was happy for her on a personal level that I rarely am when bloggers get book deals, and besides my real affection for her, I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that Let's Pretend This Never Happened isn't really a \"blog\" book, with blog entries stolen and bastardized into chapters*. It's a book that happens to be written by a blogger, and that's a huge difference. * Except for the post-it chapter. And possibly the zombie Jesus chapter. But really, who gives a shit because those chapters are hilarious. The Bloggess, aka Jenny Lawson, is not only one of the funniest people on the internet, she also happens to have the biggest and most outrageous imagination I've ever heard of, and her book is just as outrageous and inappropriate as I hoped it would be. Yes, it's laugh out loud funny, but there were parts where what I was reading was so ridiculous (just remember that I warned you about the squirrel hand puppet chapter) that I had to stop reading and share it with someone. I'm sure there are quite a lot of people who will be incredibly offended by Lawson's book, but those people don't deserve to have fun anyway. Lawson traces her life from her incredibly bizarre and fucked up childhood (a childhood full of love, though -- don't mistake fucked up for FUCKED UP, if you know what I mean) spent in the Texas countryside, dirt-poor and with the weirdest parents any child has ever had, to her adult life with beleaguered husband Victor and their daughter Hailey. The book is funny, but it's also an examination of life viewed from the outside. Lawson writes that she has always felt different from other people, but as she's grown older, it's those differences that have allowed her opportunities that she would never had otherwise. The one criticism that I have about the book is that after a while the jokes start to wear a little thin. She's writing in some cases about horrific things, and she's a funny person, so of course she's going to use humor as a coping mechanism, but pain and real details are the heart of memoir writing, and she masks them perhaps just a little too well. I found myself wishing that she would give us, her readers, just a little bit more realness in the midst of the insanity. Maybe I did the book a disservice by reading it so quickly. Maybe Lawson's very strong and unique voice is better suited to short bursts of reading than long marathons. Regardless, this is a book worth your time. Just don't read it in public or you might scare people with your convulsions of hysterical laughter. ...more Pretending to be normal is draining and requires amazing amounts of energy and Xanax. I am not surprised at all that this book has received such controversial reviews, it is full of possibilities to get butthurt. It is stuffed with abusive language and touches upon heavy topics like being an outsider, drug abuse, anorexia, anxiety, miscarriage and depression. And you know what? It is one of the funniest books I have read anyways . Jenny Lawson's writing makes her memoir so insanely hilarious, abs Pretending to be normal is draining and requires amazing amounts of energy and Xanax. I am not surprised at all that this book has received such controversial reviews, it is full of possibilities to get butthurt. It is stuffed with abusive language and touches upon heavy topics like being an outsider, drug abuse, anorexia, anxiety, miscarriage and depression. And you know what? It is one of the funniest books I have read anyways . Jenny Lawson's writing makes her memoir so insanely hilarious, absurdly imaginative, brutally honest, occasionally philosophical and completely hysterical, it's just a delight to read. And as much as this book made me laugh out loud, it also made me really sad a few times. I had never heard of Jenny Lawson before, but now I'll make sure to check out her blog more often - I just love her wits, and her imagination. ...more I love humorous memoirs. Fictitious ones like Bridget Jones's Diary or factual like BossyPants, involve me in the protagonists' journey through laughter and tears with subtle humor, honesty and a lot left to the imagination. And that is where the problem with this book lies: the author bores us with limitless stories of wild animals, which, once you've read through 3 you've read through them all. And as if that isn't bad enough - she constantly tries to reinforce how outrageous or funny every ane I love humorous memoirs. Fictitious ones like Bridget Jones's Diary or factual like BossyPants, involve me in the protagonists' journey through laughter and tears with subtle humor, honesty and a lot left to the imagination. And that is where the problem with this book lies: the author bores us with limitless stories of wild animals, which, once you've read through 3 you've read through them all. And as if that isn't bad enough - she constantly tries to reinforce how outrageous or funny every anecdote is, and more often than not literally forces you to find her writing funny. There's no subtlety, humorous undertones because every story, her thoughts on it and much more is brazenly penned down - leaving nothing to the imagination (which for me is the worst kind of writing). I have also observed that in order to engage with readers and audience, authors these days try to directly speak with the reader. Tina Fey has done it in BossyPants with class, Mindy Kaling does it in her memoir but falls flat, all of Marian Keyes's novels (written in first person) do it and make you empathize fully with the character. However even the most average attempts thus far have been a delight to read compared to this. Ms.Lawson's attempts at engaging the reader are a desperate \"PLEASE RECOMMEND THIS TO EVERYONE YOU KNOW and/or I AM SO FUNNY BUT MY EDITOR IS LIMITING MY WIT\" plea and I really wish her editor had been more strict with her because there's too much of this engagement charade (I say engagement because it did engage me into resenting the author, after all) apart from terrible writing that has gone into the book. Finally, nothing about Ms.Lawson's childhood, life or level of success is memoir worthy. She is not a media figure, nor a survivor of anything grave (unless that happens to her after the wedding chapter, because thats where I stopped). While I hold Tina Fey's writing in very high regard, possibly because I'm biased since I really like 30 Rock too, I also found Mindy Kaling's memoir fall into the 'trying too hard' category. Those women however, have accomplished a great deal and are public figures and its still interesting to know how they got there and what challenges they overcame. The same obviously cannot be said about the author - because outside of her blog and book, she is after all, a nobody. If you think that in this review I have strayed off the point more than once and have rambled on, let it be a prelude to reading the book. ...more Review Posted at Got Fiction and also at demon lover's books and more 4.5 stars Ever since I saw Beyonce the Giant Metal Chicken pop up in my twitter feed, I have been hooked on the Bloggess\u2019 special brand of humor. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever laughed so hard in my life as I did when reading about Beyonce. So you can imagine my joy when I received Let's Pretend This Never Happened: in the mail. I know that I pretty much only review romance, but this book is so much more than just \u201cA Mostly True Memoir Review Posted at Got Fiction and also at demon lover's books and more 4.5 stars Ever since I saw Beyonce the Giant Metal Chicken pop up in my twitter feed, I have been hooked on the Bloggess\u2019 special brand of humor. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever laughed so hard in my life as I did when reading about Beyonce. So you can imagine my joy when I received Let's Pretend This Never Happened: in the mail. I know that I pretty much only review romance, but this book is so much more than just \u201cA Mostly True Memoir.\u201d This book actually touches on some pretty heavy issues, from anorexia to depression. But through it all, Jenny the Bloggess keeps us entertained and upbeat. In fact, I\u2019d say this is a romance. She and her husband Victor obviously love each other very much, even though he doesn\u2019t quite get her love of humanely killed taxidermied animals in people clothes. I laughed so hard at how she and Victor argue, and at the same time, how accepting of each other they are of each other. This was my favorite part of the book: On organ donation and zombies: Victor: If you want to throw away all your organs I won\u2019t stop you. Just don\u2019t come complaining to me when I see you in the afterlife and you\u2019re all \u201dOh my God, I just peed all over myself because someone has my bladder.\u201d Jenny: Fine, And if you die first I\u2019m totally donating your organs too. Victor: Like hell you are. I may need them. Jenny: Why would you need them? YOU\u2019RE DEAD. Victor: What if I become a zombie? huh smart-ass? I\u2019d be a pretty shitty zombie if they took my eyes out. I\u2019d be biting poles and cats and shit. Jenny: So you\u2019re making a decision to not save someone\u2019s life on the off chance that it might be inconvenient if you turn into a less efficient zombie? Victor: It sounds stupid when you say it. Jenny: Fine. I\u2019ll just donate the parts that a zombie doesn\u2019t need. Like your skin. Or brain tissue. Victor: Zombies need brains. Jenny: No, zombies eat brains. And then those victims become other zombies, even though their brains have been eaten by other zombies, so obviously you could donate your brain and still be a functional zombie. Victor: yeah, and then I\u2019ve got to spend eternity wandering the world as a mindless idiot. Jenny: [snort] Victor: shut up. Jenny: I didn\u2019t say anything. Victor: If zombie-me finds out I\u2019ve got parts missing you will be the very first person I eat. Jenny the Bloggess keeps us laughing in Let's Pretend This Never Happened: , while reminding us that life isn\u2019t easy, but you make do. Unless your dad\u2019s turkeys follow you to school a la Mary and her little lamb. Then you hide and pretend you don\u2019t notice the turkeys pooping all over your school and your poo-covered dad trying to corral the turkeys while your whole school looks on. ...more Hilarious! Seriously. I mean, she's not serious, but she's freaking hilarious. Though I guess at times she can be serious. Like when she talks about the life lessons she learns after being mauled by a pack of dogs or having to defend her pug's rotting corpse from a group of buzzards with a machete. Or when she's dealing with the anxiety, depression, and myriad of other issues she bravely faces each day with snark, wit, and dry humor that made me snort and almost cry from laughter. I listened to t Hilarious! Seriously. I mean, she's not serious, but she's freaking hilarious. Though I guess at times she can be serious. Like when she talks about the life lessons she learns after being mauled by a pack of dogs or having to defend her pug's rotting corpse from a group of buzzards with a machete. Or when she's dealing with the anxiety, depression, and myriad of other issues she bravely faces each day with snark, wit, and dry humor that made me snort and almost cry from laughter. I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Lawson herself, and I can't recommend it enough. Her delivery is so on point, I was genuinely concerned for my driving while listening. I just kept busting up laughing at how casually she'd talk about getting her arm stuck in a cow's vagina or when her father threw a bobcat on her boyfriend (later husband) the first time they met. Her life seems unreal, and granted it's a 'mostly true' memoir, but I can't help believing that most of this stuff isn't made up. Either she's got the craziest life or the craziest imagination ever. Or both. Nevertheless, it's one of the silliest, funniest, and yet encouraging and hopeful memoirs I've ever read. If you are averse to profanity or any topics that are generally not allowed at the dinner table, you might be a bit put off by Lawson's writing. I adored her no holds barred approach though because I felt she was incredibly genuine, and also if no one else is going to talk about their experience accidentally walking into a deer mid-skinning you better jump on the chance! If that's not enough, here are some chapter titles that might convince you to read this book: -\"If You Need an Arm Condom, It Might Be Time to Reevaluate Some of Your Life Choices\" (my personal favorite) -\"It Wasn't Even My Crack\" -\"And Then I Snuck a Dead Cuban Alligator on an Airplane\" -\"I Was a Three-Year-Old Arsonist\" -and \"Stabbed by Chicken\" ...more<---C>Jenny  Lawson</---C><+++>Let's Pretend This Never Happened: A Mostly True Memoir</+++>", "Title": "Let's Pretend This Never Happened: A Mostly True Memoir"},
