{"Comments": "Literary critics can moan all they want about <---A>Stephen King</---A>'s \"penny dreadful\" oeuvre, but his mastery at the craft of storytelling is indisputable. King writes his novels like a seduction, the story unfolding delicately and deliberately. As any Stephen King fan knows, his coy expository chapters often take up the first hundred pages or more. In <+++>Cell</+++>, however, the reader is brutally dragged into the main action--unspeakable, senseless violence--within the first seven pages. <+++>Cell</+++> is by far King's Literary critics can moan all they want about Stephen King's \"penny dreadful\" oeuvre, but his mastery at the craft of storytelling is indisputable. King writes his novels like a seduction, the story unfolding delicately and deliberately. As any Stephen King fan knows, his coy expository chapters often take up the first hundred pages or more. In Cell, however, the reader is brutally dragged into the main action--unspeakable, senseless violence--within the first seven pages. Cell is by far King's most brutal, transgressive work to date. Many have compared Cell to his earlier epic, The Stand. On the surface, the novels are quite similar: an apocolyptic event threatens the very existence of the human race as a band of survivors struggle to come to terms with the carnage and avert further catastrophe. Cell, however, is the far more mature novel of the pair. The Stand was,<---M> in many ways</---M>, a novel by an idealistic youth, whereas Cell is filled with the trenchant and world-weary observations of an adult. The subtext is laden with so much chillingly apt futurist rhetoric that it is as though the author had Marshall McLuhan whispering plot devices and metaphors into his ear as he labored over his typewriter. King manages to explore several of the major sociocultural conflicts of our time, most persuasively the end of the era of individualism and the rise of collectivism, here symptomatic of heavy reliance on technology. Whereas many dystopian novels are almost comically blunt when expounding upon the dangers of collectivism, King's horrific plot and action give his metaphors a sort of subtlety that renders his subtext much more graceful and easier to stomach than the work of Ayn Rand. As the epigraphs indicate, it is also a meditation on the intrinsic violence of the human race. King clearly feels as though the world is out of control and wants to find out why. His preferred genre, horror, is an excellent one with which to consider the depravaties of modern life. The Stand was a novel that, if not upbeat, was at least optimistic--a reflection of the times in which it was written. There was also violence, but it had its own biblical logic, if violence can ever be called logical. In Cell, the violence is senseless, oppressive, and omnipresent. There seems to be little promise for a better world... at least not one inhabited by human beings. Many reviewers took issue with the unresolved ending. Considering the subtext of the novel, however, the reader will find that the ending's abruptness actually informs the sense that Cell, besides being an excellent horror yarn, is a meticulously painted portrait of the horrors of global culture. The many crises of our time are still developing and mutating. The end is not yet, it seems, in sight. ...more 3.<---F>5 Stars</---F>.....Ok, I do believe I'm with the 'don't like the ending' readers on this one, but oh what a beginning! Clay is happy........he just sold his first graphic novel and can't wait to share the news with his estranged (<---B>but loved</---B>) wife and 12 year old son; and as it turns out, luckily, does not own a CELL phone. While deciding to celebrate with an ice cream, all hell breaks loose on the streets of Boston, and afterward, crazies are everywhere, thousands of them, and travel by night (to get h 3.5 Stars.....Ok, I do believe I'm with the 'don't like the ending' readers on this one, but oh what a beginning! Clay is happy........he just sold his first graphic novel and can't wait to share the news with his estranged (but loved) wife and 12 year old son; and as it turns out, luckily, does not own a CELL phone. While deciding to celebrate with an ice cream, all hell breaks loose on the streets of Boston, and afterward, crazies are everywhere, thousands of them, and travel by night (to get home to his son) turns out to be the only option. Overall, I did like this Stephen King sci-fi thriller, but it does have its lulls and did end a bit too abruptly for my taste. With reminders of Night of the Living Dead, and graphic gore, probably not for everyone, but for me, bring on the movie! (view spoiler) [ (hope we get to find out what happened to Tom's cat and the rest of the gang!) And remember: \"Assume makes an ass out of you and me\" (hide spoiler) ] ...more I don\u2019t know where to start. I don\u2019t know what to say. I own about 30 Stephen King books, I believe I have read them all. Strange enough, it seems like just as I started getting into the King of Horror, his talent began to dwindle. I think it was when I was in sixth grade that I started digging him and becoming a fan, and at about that same time he began to put out books that pretty much anyone with a brain will concede are not nearly the clean-up hitters that his first works were. Carrie, Pet C I don\u2019t know where to start. I don\u2019t know what to say. I own about 30 Stephen King books, I believe I have read them all. Strange enough, it seems like just as I started getting into the King of Horror, his talent began to dwindle. I think it was when I was in sixth grade that I started digging him and becoming a fan, and at about that same time he began to put out books that pretty much anyone with a brain will concede are not nearly the clean-up hitters that his first works were. Carrie, Pet Cemetery, Christine, Cujo, The Stand, The Shining\u2026..esteemed and awesome for the most part, only to be replaced with the likes of Gerald\u2019s Game, The Woman Who Loved Tom Gordon, Insomnia, and the Green F@cking Mile. There\u2019s something wrong in that, I was always under the belief that the more experience you have in your craft the better you will eventually get, unless you\u2019re an absolute nimrod. Well, Mr. King proves me dead-fricking wrong, especially with the release of Cell, a novel I can\u2019t quite find a word for. Disappointing? No, I was expecting about as much. Poor? Too rich for this trash. Feeble? Getting warmer. I want to put this to bed rather quickly, after all, Stephen King has written more than a few badass books and I\u2019d rather not dwell on the poor bastard's dwindling talents as he progresses in age and rocks out in his crappy band, \u201cBookwyrm\u201d. Ok, so his band isn\u2019t called Bookwyrm, but it ought to be; it shows that in one second I came up with a more powerful and awesome name than he ever could. His band doesn\u2019t matter here, what matters is that King had the great idea of making a back-to-the-basics horror novel, and what better subject matter than zombies! Flucking zombies man! Maybe Steve is the only one who hasn\u2019t realized it, but zombies have been beat to death (no pun intended) in recent media via horror films and video games. Not to mention that the Zombie King, the venerable George Romero, has produced some rather slick zombie films in his \u201cDead\u201d series recently, one example is Land of The Dead, which King liberally rips off with the idea of zombies evolving in this novel, although Romero isn\u2019t gay enough to consider having them evolve super powers including levitation, thought-control, and telepathy. Thank god. King, however, is down with this wishy-washy, flimsy shit, and it\u2019s not surprising that the novel starts to nosedive about the time the undead begin using their newfound powers. Like all King novels that center around droves of mindless minions of evil, there is one badass leader zombie that seems to be running the show, and he\u2019s the only character that I can really even recall from the book, how f@cking pitiful is that, especially since the only reason I can imagine the dude is because he\u2019s such a archetypical figure that this is his only real intent. The story plods along after all cell phones receive some sort of \u2018pulse\u2019 which leads to the poor f@cker on the phone becoming a zombie. If I recall correctly, that\u2019s the only thing which turns people into zombies, the Pulse. Now, I understand King is trying to make a point on society through the sheer number of zombies, but let\u2019s face it, the number of people this would effect is not that fucking catastrophic. In Cell, it is, almost 75% of the world seems to either have been zombified, or is in immediate danger due to someone else\u2019s transformation into a zombie. This sheer mathematical impossibility annoyed me throughout the course of the story. Adding to my troubles, the main character, Clayton (of all fuggin names), is hell-bent on finding his family, he\u2019ll do anything just to see if they are alive or dead, blah blah blah. I think another character was a homo and of course there was the ever-present Crafty Child. All dicking around while the zombies grew more powerful through their unnatural cerebral enhancements. Boring. ...more Five stars for the first half. One star for the last 200 pages, wherein King drags his ass like a dog infested with roundworms. Cell is a five-star read all the way up to the halfway mark. You got crazies running around, nom nom nomming on tender bits, and a likable crew of misfits trying to stay alive. Underneath it all, King is stoking the fires of 9/11, trying to keep the fear alive a full five years after the towers fell in a half-ass attempt to scare you with real-world issues. The Phonies Five stars for the first half. One star for the last 200 pages, wherein King drags his ass like a dog infested with roundworms. Cell is a five-star read all the way up to the halfway mark. You got crazies running around, nom nom nomming on tender bits, and a likable crew of misfits trying to stay alive. Underneath it all, King is stoking the fires of 9/11, trying to keep the fear alive a full five years after the towers fell in a half-ass attempt to scare you with real-world issues. The Phonies (I do not type that word with a straight face) speak in a garbled, almost-arabic language. Slap turbans on King's version of zombies and you have a strong argument for racist propaganda. Did King do this on purpose? Mayhap he did. Mayhap he didn't. Either way, 'MURICA! There's this climax that takes place around midway through the book. King shits the bed after that. What action you do find on the downhill side of this novel is tired, rehashed bullshit from the first half of the book. It's honestly like reading two different books. King even repeats the big scene in the middle further down the road, but by then, the cool factor has disappeared. You can't have barbecue every night, friends and neighbors. It's fucking great on Friday, especially when beer's involved, but more of a pain in the ass on Saturday because you're still hungover from the night before and that goddamn grill is making you sweat pure ethanol. This is either my second or third read through of Cell . Can't remember, but it's certainly not my first. Because of this, I let Campbell Scott read it to me. He does a fine job at the narration, but the production quality is iffy at times. Sounds levels are fucked. He'll be really low one minute (not whispering, just low) and then he'll be loud (not yelling, just loud). Sometimes, the tone of his narration changes, as if he's started reading as another character. I still don't think this is his fault. I think it's the quality of the recording, which, in my honest opinion, is utter dogshit. Before we hit the Conspiracy Theory section of our program, I must say that I firmly believe King got in way over his head with this book. There's a reason why The Stand is 1200-pages long and Cell is only 450. Maybe Cell started as a short story or a novella and it just kept on going, or maybe he always meant for it to end the way it did. Either way, the final product makes it seem as if King just got tired of writing this particular book and stopped. I can dig open endings, but to follow Clay on his hunt only to receive the ending we get here... I don't know, man, that's kind of a dick move. Oh well, it's Uncle Stevie. Whatcha gon' do, right? Here there be spoilers for all of King's books. Only click on \"view spoiler\" if you've read through King's entire catalog. I take no responsibility for your sadness and despair at having something spoiled because you can't take instruction, ya muppet. (view spoiler) [ Obvious Tie Ins: Charlie the Choo Choo (the Dark Tower series) The Dark Wanderer comic (obvious nods to the Dark Tower universe, especially since they are graphic novels and this came out around the time MARVEL started working on their DT comics) Conspiracy theory: I believe this version of the King-verse is another beam altogether from the beam of the Bear and Turtle. The Stand happens on one beam, as witnessed in Wizard and Glass , and Cell on another. This is how you can have two end-of-the-world scenarios in one universe. (hide spoiler) ] In summation: I was hoping the sudden stop at the end would be eased by the knowledge of what was to come, but it didn't happen. Cell is still a three-star read and I'm sure it will remain that way for all my days. Especially since I see no reason for me to ever read this again. This one is fine for a first read through, as the ending can be a little shocking in a \"Wait... what???\" kind of way, but the novel definitely doesn't withstand the test of time, nor does it withstand a second read through. Final Judgment: Only slightly better than AT&T. ...more I suddenly realised half way through this book that it is really a zombie novel. After a shower I felt better and rationalised that this was occupying my \"wouldn't normally read this\" slot in my book consumption; sigh of relief. I must admit that I did enjoy some of King's early novels, but this was so far fetched and ridiculous (Am I really saying \"It\" wasn't?). The plot is simple. Somehow, someone sends a pulse through the mobile phone system which wipes clean a person's mind and sends them ba I suddenly realised half way through this book that it is really a zombie novel. After a shower I felt better and rationalised that this was occupying my \"wouldn't normally read this\" slot in my book consumption; sigh of relief. I must admit that I did enjoy some of King's early novels, but this was so far fetched and ridiculous (Am I really saying \"It\" wasn't?). The plot is simple. Somehow, someone sends a pulse through the mobile phone system which wipes clean a person's mind and sends them back to basics and they become unreasoning killers. Those that survive the bloodbath begin to flock together and develop a sort of telepathy. Meanwhile those that didn't hear the pulse and survived the bloodbath also group together and a struggle for survival begins. Sometimes books like this are good mindless fun and I do enjoy well written thrillers. King does write well and is a natural storyteller; but there is something insidious at the heart of this. Basically (and this is actually said in the book), when everything is stripped away from men and women; what is left - MURDER. This, quite simply, is the Doctrine of The Fall (not Mark E Smith's rather good Manchester band), as found in the Old Testament. We are born in sin and are wicked at heart; our first instincts being to kill rather than care for each other. That is the problem with this book; that premise. Nature and nurture matter not; we are hard-wired to Murder. In my more depressive moments I realise we have created an economic system which destroys the weak and poor rather well and we regularly elect governments that play and build on xenophobia and the evils of those who are different. However, in my heart I believe we all have that spark that would rather care for others than destroy them. That's the problem with this book. ...more Stephen King does zombies! Well...kind of. We'll get to that in a bit. But first, here's how I think this book came about: Way back in aught-6 (2006), or just before because Cell was published in '06, but who knows with King, am I right? But anyway, we've come a long way since that time. Everyone was getting cell phones and they were just about getting to every last person around. I imagine him having this conversation with, let's say, his son, Joe Hill. Stephen: \"Wow, cell phones have really gotte Stephen King does zombies! Well...kind of. We'll get to that in a bit. But first, here's how I think this book came about: Way back in aught-6 (2006), or just before because Cell was published in '06, but who knows with King, am I right? But anyway, we've come a long way since that time. Everyone was getting cell phones and they were just about getting to every last person around. I imagine him having this conversation with, let's say, his son, Joe Hill. Stephen: \"Wow, cell phones have really gotten popular lately. Everyone seems to have one.\" Joe: \"Yeah Dad, come on, get with the times already, man.\" Stephen: \"Well, at least we'll never get rid of these landlines right? Both are VERY necessary. [useless joke probably not in King's character, just wanted to make fun of how we used to still had landlines when everyone was switching to cell phones] \"But seriously, I am SO sick of people being on their cell phones all the time. You can't even have an honest-to-goodness conversation with a person without someone bombarding you with a call. \"Can't we just have real conversations with human beings anymore? Instead, we talk to electronics and let them control everything we do, sacrificing our humanity. \"If only there was a way to put an end to this nonsense...I've got it!\" Cell starts out as your basic zombie book. People are going about their normal business when suddenly lots of people start going crazy and attacking other people while a few people escape unscathed for a while until they get attacked. Well, Stephen King made a couple of changes to the normal zombie mythos (I think we can call it mythos now). Here, the zombies are created by a pulse that occurs through cell phones. All the people using their cell phones at the time of the \"pulse\" (as its known throughout the book) are immediately changed into what is essentially a zombie. Those without cell phones or not on them at the time are saved. It's not exactly clear whether they are (or have to be) dead or not, some are, but not all, but they all have the same traits, which are pretty zombie-like. They go crazy, they attack people including their own kind, and make survival the number one priority for those who weren't turned. They are known throughout the book not at zombies, but as \"phone crazies.\" Boy did I hate that term after a while. It's just so dumb. It's also descriptively appropriate, but meh. Call them walkers, call them phoners even, but \"phone crazies\" just bugged me to no end. In addition, the zombies only come out during the day and therefore leave the night to the survivors. Cell follows Clayton Riddell, a survivor of the pulse who happened to be in Boston at the time of the \"pulse.\" He lives in (you guessed it) Maine (but he's not a writer, he's a comic artist, completely different), which is where his family is located at the time of the pulse and provides the impetus for Clay and his group of survivors to head north. I did enjoy this book, but to talk about why I didn't enjoy it enough to even reach the 4 star threshold, I'm gonna have to get into some spoilers . These aren't huge, ruin-the-book spoilers, just possibly ruin a part of the first 200 pages/quarter of the book. You've been warned. /Begin mild spoilers I could go more into Clay's group because they do play a large role in the novel, but I just don't have the time nor the energy at the moment. Know they're there and they are some great characters. The reason I wasn't a huge fan of this particular zombie book is that King almost immediately kills the whole reason I read zombie books. I read them for the constant suspense and scare that the people we've grown close to are going to get eaten, turned, die, whatever. King introduces telepathy into the zombie mythos. While it's an interesting and unique take, I realized toward the end that it pretty much killed this particular zombie novel for me. Because the zombie apocalypse occurred through the pulse, the phone crazies (bleh) are connected somehow, they can even communicate in a way telepathically. It begins through large gatherings where they sleep during the night while getting essentially reprogrammed telepathically. While they are communicating telepathically, they begin to flock just like some types of animals (birds in a \"v\" for instance). While they flock, they don't attack humans. It just stops. There's more that happens and they do begin to do some much more devious things, but the survivors, and especially our little crew we follow, are essentially immune from the day-to-day zombie attack. Bigger Spoiler, for the novel I Am Legend as well: While I'm still within the spoiler section of my review, I also wanted to add that I totally thought he was going to go I Am Legend with the zombies, making the zombies the new society and the survivors the outcasts. It seemed to be going there, but didn't in the end. /end spoilers I enjoyed this book, it had great characters (as expected) and a good enough story to keep me enjoying it. It also had an interesting take on zombies that, while I applaud King for his creativity and boldness, kind of killed the zombie part of this zombie novel. 3 out of 5 Stars (Recommended with reservations) ...more For some reason, I had seen quite a few bad reviews on Cell before I read it. Not one to usually dislike a King novel, I did go into this one without the highest of expectations and ended up being very pleasantly surprised. The story centers around a mass event that turns anyone who happens to be on their cell phone at the time into a zombie. Mass chaos ensues and a small group of survivors bands together and tries to figure out what is going on and how to stop it. Some of the plot-line does have For some reason, I had seen quite a few bad reviews on Cell before I read it. Not one to usually dislike a King novel, I did go into this one without the highest of expectations and ended up being very pleasantly surprised. The story centers around a mass event that turns anyone who happens to be on their cell phone at the time into a zombie. Mass chaos ensues and a small group of survivors bands together and tries to figure out what is going on and how to stop it. Some of the plot-line does have some similarity to The Stand, but the characters are fairly unique, the dialog is good, and the action keeps rolling along at a fairly brisk pace. I really liked this novel. I knew that I probably would, but it was a nice surprise that it was as good as it was. I am of the opinion that not everything that Stephen King writes is destined to be a classic, but the majority of his work is well above average and I feel that one day he will be given his long overdue kudos and be placed in the literary canon with the other greats of modern literature. ...more \"What Darwin was too polite to say, my friends, is that we came to rule the earth not because we were the smartest, or even the meanest, but because we have always been the craziest, most murderous motherfuckers in the jungle.\" Cell is an apocalyptic tale about mobile phones that wipe the user's brain, getting rid of any humanity and leaving behind only aggressive and destructive impulses. The story focuses on the main character, Clay, who is on a mission to find his estranged wife and son. Now l \"What Darwin was too polite to say, my friends, is that we came to rule the earth not because we were the smartest, or even the meanest, but because we have always been the craziest, most murderous motherfuckers in the jungle.\" Cell is an apocalyptic tale about mobile phones that wipe the user's brain, getting rid of any humanity and leaving behind only aggressive and destructive impulses. The story focuses on the main character, Clay, who is on a mission to find his estranged wife and son. Now living in a post-apocalyptic world and unable to use mobile phones for fear of becoming crazed maniacs, Clay and his group must navigate their way in an attempt to find out what has happened to his family. Okay, so, I actually really enjoyed this book. I loved the premise of it, and found it terrifying to even consider what it would be like if such an event occurred in real life. I loved how it was the use of mobile phones that created these crazed \"zombies\", especially because if something like this did happen, your first thought would be to call your loved ones to check they're okay. So I kinda loved that detail, added an extra layer to the story I thought. The characters were so-so. Clay was fine, but I think I actually preferred Tom. I also really liked Alice, so I wasn't overly happy with her storyline. The \"zombies\" or \"phonies\" as they were called in the book were downright horrifying! I really liked their behaviours and how they were used within the story. The fact that they were only active during the day and then \"rebooted\" at night. It felt like a unique portrayal of zombies. I thought the story moved at a great pace, especially at the beginning. It was non-stop terrifying. The pace did slow down a bit, particularly towards the end, but I was still very much interested and eager to see how it all panned out. But then that ending. THAT GODDAMN ENDING. Left me feeling so infuriated and angry. I absolutely hate endings like that...I was so annoyed by it that I felt like deducting a star, but then maybe in hindsight I will look back and like the ending (similar to how I feel about The Sopranos), so it can keep the star... for now. I thought it was a great read (apart from the ending) and very much underrated in the Stephen King universe. If I ever meet Sai King I will slap him across the face for that ending......but then hug him and declare my undying love. ...more I would give this one 31/2 stars. I've read better and worse by King. Not very scary, interesting idea and take on a kind of Zombie like Apocalypse. Great book to read while waiting for a plane. ;-) Yay! Another successful King re-read! I read Cell when it first came out and I loved it. I\u2019ve wanted to do a reread since hearing the whispers about the movie production. All I needed to hear was John Cusack and I knew it would be gold. I mean, seriously. The guy has to be one of the most underrated actors ever. Then came the announcement of Samuel L. Jackson joining the cast and I removed any doubt from my mind. SOLD. Clay Riddell has just sold his first comic. He\u2019s about to make a shit-load of c Yay! Another successful King re-read! I read Cell when it first came out and I loved it. I\u2019ve wanted to do a reread since hearing the whispers about the movie production. All I needed to hear was John Cusack and I knew it would be gold. I mean, seriously. The guy has to be one of the most underrated actors ever. Then came the announcement of Samuel L. Jackson joining the cast and I removed any doubt from my mind. SOLD. Clay Riddell has just sold his first comic. He\u2019s about to make a shit-load of cash. He\u2019s excited. He can\u2019t wait to tell his son- and even kind of his estranged wifey. There he is basking in all the glory of his success when the Pulse occurs. Any person on their phone at the time of the Pulse goes completely insane. They kill themselves or others in violent and vicious ways. One guy even bites the ear off a dog. Another girl smashes her own face repeatedly off of a pole until she dies. It\u2019s fucking awesome. I know people say this is King\u2019s version of zombies but I disagree. I think the Pulse strips you down to your most primal self. You become a beast; an animal. At bottom, you see, we are not Homo sapiens as all. Our core is madness. The prime directive is murder. What Darwin was too polite to say, my friends, is that we came to rule the earth not because we were the smartest, or even the meanest, but because we have always been the craziest, most murderous motherfuckers in the jungle. And that is what the Pulse exposed five days ago. The pace of the book does slow down but the story does not. It develops into a one-of-a-kind mindfuck of a tale. While I love the opening sequence for its relentless violence, I think the ending is my favorite part. King nailed it. His endings are sooooooooooo hit and miss among his fans-at least in my experience- it is nice to see an ending I can really appreciate. I think it was the perfect ending for this book. If you haven\u2019t had a chance to read it yet- I strongly recommend it. If you have- make sure you check out the trailer for the movie! It looks amazing! You can check that out right here Ps. The docked star is mostly due to the inconsistent narration of the audio book. It was patchy and you could clearly hear the edits. It was enough to take me out of the story. ...more Odli\u010dan po\u010detak pri\u010de, radnja sasvim zadovoljavaju\u0107a iako se javlja ose\u0107aj ve\u0107 vi\u0111enog i onda bezvezan zavr\u0161etak. Jednog sasvim obi\u010dnog dana dobar deo ljudi je, na prvi pogled ni\u010dim izazvano, potpuno podivljao. Momentalno po\u010dinje borba za pre\u017eivljavanje - odre\u0111en broj ljudi koji deluje kao da je izgubio razum bez problema napada svoje prijatelje, \u010dlanove porodice pa i ku\u0107ne ljubimce i hladnokrvno ih ubijaju na najbrutalnije na\u010dine. U svom ovom haosu Klejton Ridel, Tom Mekort i Alis Maksvel se pr Odli\u010dan po\u010detak pri\u010de, radnja sasvim zadovoljavaju\u0107a iako se javlja ose\u0107aj ve\u0107 vi\u0111enog i onda bezvezan zavr\u0161etak. Jednog sasvim obi\u010dnog dana dobar deo ljudi je, na prvi pogled ni\u010dim izazvano, potpuno podivljao. Momentalno po\u010dinje borba za pre\u017eivljavanje - odre\u0111en broj ljudi koji deluje kao da je izgubio razum bez problema napada svoje prijatelje, \u010dlanove porodice pa i ku\u0107ne ljubimce i hladnokrvno ih ubijaju na najbrutalnije na\u010dine. U svom ovom haosu Klejton Ridel, Tom Mekort i Alis Maksvel se prepoznaju kao \"normalni\" i uspevaju da se sklone na sigurno. Razmenjuju\u0107i utiske i zapa\u017eanja zaklju\u010duju da je novonastalo ludilo povezano sa mobilnim telefonima - sve ljude koje su videli da su pogubili razum su u tom trenutku razgovarali preko telefona. Alis je izgubila sve \u010dlanove svoje porodice dok Klej strahuje \u0161ta se de\u0161ava sa njegovim sinom i suprugom. Kao grupa odlu\u010duju da moraju da preduzmu ne\u0161to, pa makar to zna\u010dilo ubijanje onih koji su zara\u017eeni telefonskim ludilom. Od ovog trenutka situacija se samo pogor\u0161ava, jer pored neznanja \u0161ta se desilo sa njihovim najmilijima, pre\u017eiveli moraju da se nose sa daljom mutacijom telefonskih zombija. Od prve re\u010denice pa do poslednjih pedesetak stranica \u010ditamo ne\u0161to stvarno sjajno - pri\u010da je dinami\u010dna od starta, uvla\u010di nas momentalno i za divno \u010dudo, imaju\u0107i u vidu sklonost Kinga ka skribomaniji, pri\u010da zapravo jako brzo te\u010de. Nema preduga\u010dkih digresija i nema vra\u0107anja kroz vreme i sli\u010dno. Uvo\u0111enje novih likova u pri\u010du u odre\u0111enim delovima je odli\u010dno tempirano, zaista je jedan ceo niz doga\u0111aja opisan na visokom nivou i prili\u010dno verodostojno \u0161to je meni mo\u017eda i najbitnije. Ono \u0161to se de\u0161ava u poslednjih pedesetak stranica je za mene razo\u010daravaju\u0107e. Opet je po sredi jedan od zbrzanih krajeva i mislim da sam izgubila strpljenje i razumevanje \u0161to se toga ti\u010de. Ta\u010dnije, razumevanje samo donekle jer mogu da razumem razloge koji su rezultirali ovakvim raspletom, ali ne mogu vi\u0161e. Tako\u0111e po\u010dinje da mi smeta nedore\u010denost odre\u0111enih detalja koji su klju\u010dni za razumevanje pri\u010de, a koje King evidentno namerno izostavlja. Sa druge strane, ono \u0161to jeste doprinelo lo\u0161oj oceni jeste upravo moja prezasi\u0107enost Kingom. Verujem da bi mnogi bez problema dali i najvi\u0161u ocenu jer bih je verovatno dala i ja da su okolnosti druga\u010dije. ...more that was one hell of a ride!!! Great apocalyptic thriller! It has very chilling moments and intense too! there are also some sad moments especially during the end! That ending... had me with an open mouth.. i could not believe it was over... i think it leaves your imagination and curiosity on air, on what will happen later! I first saw many negative reviews about the book wich i honestly don't know why they exist.. okay it's not perfect but it's not awful either! the possitive aspects are: +Great s that was one hell of a ride!!! Great apocalyptic thriller! It has very chilling moments and intense too! there are also some sad moments especially during the end! That ending... had me with an open mouth.. i could not believe it was over... i think it leaves your imagination and curiosity on air, on what will happen later! I first saw many negative reviews about the book wich i honestly don't know why they exist.. okay it's not perfect but it's not awful either! the possitive aspects are: +Great story. especially the beginning! +Good characters ( not all of them) +The Pulse the negatives are: - the pace at some places is slow but not nothing that will bother - the ending also was so-so. ( Don't like cliffhangers....) - I t could have a better explanations with some things! overall it deserves 4 stars! ...more My overall feelings on this book? Meh... but in a good way. I'm a huge Stephen King fan, but I think I'm going to start defining my adoration for him by a certain era. I find I love his earlier stuff, but don't particularly love (or sometimes even like) his later stuff. 'Cell' is a good example of how a former master of horror has now become a much more average author. Now, this is not a bad novel. It varies from alright to good, rarely achieving greatness, but scoring points for story, some pac My overall feelings on this book? Meh... but in a good way. I'm a huge Stephen King fan, but I think I'm going to start defining my adoration for him by a certain era. I find I love his earlier stuff, but don't particularly love (or sometimes even like) his later stuff. 'Cell' is a good example of how a former master of horror has now become a much more average author. Now, this is not a bad novel. It varies from alright to good, rarely achieving greatness, but scoring points for story, some pace, and King's usual habit of giving us the creeps. But the story was part of the problem too. Although there was a slight twist on the 'Zombie tale' (people become zombie-ish creatures after receiving a signal through their cell phones), this novel quickly turns into a story we've all heard before: The majority of people become zombies, small groups of living people escape/fight to stay alive in the ensuing zombie apocalypse. Been there. Done that. Many times. And it's played out. But there was a little bit of new life breathed into an old trope, and it was as decent as the next good book about the undead. Still, I expected a lot more from our crowned ruler of creepy books. It's a bit annoying and disheartening when someone like Stephen King starts becoming an imitator instead of an originator, or when it feels like big-time authors are getting lazy in light of their success (I have the same feeling about authors Peter Straub and Dean Koontz). I read a book like 'Cell' and I can't help wonder if maybe it is time we had a new 'King' of horror fiction. ...more It\u2019s the best book I\u2019ve read after A Song Of Ice And Fire! The characterization and the narration is incredibly amazing. It catches the reader\u2019s interest from the first line to the very last word. Yes! The story starts minutes before The Pulse occurred and takes us through the entire scenario in perfect detail. You\u2019ll get a feeling that you are right next to the lead, Clayton Riddell and are experiencing each and everything. The craziers or the phone-crazies are easy to picture and seem scary. Cl It\u2019s the best book I\u2019ve read after A Song Of Ice And Fire! The characterization and the narration is incredibly amazing. It catches the reader\u2019s interest from the first line to the very last word. Yes! The story starts minutes before The Pulse occurred and takes us through the entire scenario in perfect detail. You\u2019ll get a feeling that you are right next to the lead, Clayton Riddell and are experiencing each and everything. The craziers or the phone-crazies are easy to picture and seem scary. Clay\u2019s allies, Tom and Alice are perfect and the way they survive is really intriguing. The major part of the book is about Clay\u2019s journey to save his son and that he does! Or not! Well, the best part (as far as I\u2019m concerned) is the open-ending, which is a treat for reader\u2019s imagination. One of the other things I liked about Cell is that The Pulse, that is the virus, which is also referred to as a programme, is shown to be corrupted and wormed. Which actually takes the entire concept to a whole new level. This book is amazing. I love it and I guess now I\u2019ll be on a Stephen-King-reading-spree\u2026 It very well satisfied my hunger of always wanting more from any post-apocalyptic (specially Zombie) movie. From now on, I\u2019m gonna switch to apocalyptic books instead of movies cause in movies you just get to watch stuff but in a book, specially by King you really get to feel the intensity. Throughout the entire book and it\u2019s events, I was right there with Clay and the gang and I\u2019ll tell you what, I was so involved in the happenings of the book that yes, I did hesitate to pick up my cell when it rang! It\u2019s not a book it\u2019s an experience and I really can\u2019t have enough of it! You can also read this review at The Reading Bud ...more You know, I'm pretty sure he said he was retiring a few years ago. Not that I'm complaining, mind you - this was a fun read. I just figure we should never trust a writer when they say they're done. This is like crack to them, I suppose. With this book, King is back to my favorite story type of his - world-spanning apocalypse. Ain't nothing better than the end of the world, in my judgment, and The Stand is still one of my favorite King books. In this one, though, he takes a slightly different appro You know, I'm pretty sure he said he was retiring a few years ago. Not that I'm complaining, mind you - this was a fun read. I just figure we should never trust a writer when they say they're done. This is like crack to them, I suppose. With this book, King is back to my favorite story type of his - world-spanning apocalypse. Ain't nothing better than the end of the world, in my judgment, and The Stand is still one of my favorite King books. In this one, though, he takes a slightly different approach. In The Stand , the full scale of the disaster is revealed in pieces, with tantalizing peeks at how bad Captain Trips is every now and then until we finally see just what it means to lose 99.6% of the population in ten days. Hint: stinky. For Cell , King tells us right up front, before the first page of the story, that the world as we know it would be gone in two weeks. Then he gives us a happy, almost exuberant main character, whose life has just taken a massive turn for the better and who believes he can see a bright and shining future ahead of him. A few pages later, of course, The Pulse hits. And the world, for all intents and purposes, ends. At 3:03 PM EST, October 1st, everyone who uses a cell phone goes instantly and ferally insane. The people who see the first waves of chaos do the natural thing - pick up their cell phones to find out what's happening. And in an instant, they are part of the madness. It's a terrible new world, to say the least. And Clayton Riddell has to make his way to his wife and son, hoping that they survived the pulse and the murderous madness that followed. The story is not, technically, original. King borrows a great deal from other writers and artists - he thanks Richard Matheson and George Romero up front, as well he should. And he has one of the main characters refer to Neal Stephenson as \"a God,\" perhaps to balance against criticism of apparent similarities with Snow Crash. And, of course, because Stephenson is a god, if a terribly difficult one to understand all the time.... Of course, he can't escape comparisons to his original apocalypse book, The Stand , but he didn't reference it directly. The characters seem to have a more difficult time getting their way in this book, it seems, and they certainly cover less ground. And they're not, to my mind, as memorable as the wonderful cast of characters who wandered through The Stand. No Randall Flagg, either. However, for you Dark Tower fans, there's one oblique reference in this book: It's in the \"Kashwak\" section, just at the end of part 15, pretty close to the end of the book. You should know it when you see it. Speaking of which.... I haven't read everything King's written since he finished out Dark Tower , but it looks like he's decided that closure is overrated. That's all I'm gonna say about that. It's not a bad ending by any stretch, it's just.... *sigh* Anyway, pick it up. Fun book. ...more 4.5 Once again Mr. King shows why he is a master. I wouldn't rank this one among his best, but that is because he has done so many masterpieces that it is hard to compete. But I still thought this was a great book. King used some basic concepts; cell phone usage, zombies, and yet he presented a tale that was unique and creative. This one was short compared to his average novels and because of his entertaining, free-flowing script, this was another one of those books that was a breeze to read. I c 4.5 Once again Mr. King shows why he is a master. I wouldn't rank this one among his best, but that is because he has done so many masterpieces that it is hard to compete. But I still thought this was a great book. King used some basic concepts; cell phone usage, zombies, and yet he presented a tale that was unique and creative. This one was short compared to his average novels and because of his entertaining, free-flowing script, this was another one of those books that was a breeze to read. I can see where some people might scrutinize the ending, but I like the way the author left us with a myriad of possibilities and the opportunity to use our own imaginations to conclude the story. ...more Buen libro de King . En mi opini\u00f3n parte de una idea algo bizarra, sin embargo, el autor la trat\u00f3 de la forma menos rid\u00edcula posible. Empieza bien; las primeras p\u00e1ginas te seducen y te instan a seguir en la historia. A medida que avanz\u00e1s en la trama empez\u00e1s a sentir la desesperanza, la desolaci\u00f3n y la tragedia de los protagonistas . El misterio tiene un gran papel en esta novela. A mi parecer en algunas partes es bastante pesado . No s\u00e9 bien por qu\u00e9, pero lo es. Un poco repetitivo, quiz\u00e1s. El final Buen libro de King . En mi opini\u00f3n parte de una idea algo bizarra, sin embargo, el autor la trat\u00f3 de la forma menos rid\u00edcula posible. Empieza bien; las primeras p\u00e1ginas te seducen y te instan a seguir en la historia. A medida que avanz\u00e1s en la trama empez\u00e1s a sentir la desesperanza, la desolaci\u00f3n y la tragedia de los protagonistas . El misterio tiene un gran papel en esta novela. A mi parecer en algunas partes es bastante pesado . No s\u00e9 bien por qu\u00e9, pero lo es. Un poco repetitivo, quiz\u00e1s. El final muchos lo odiaron con toda su alma. A m\u00ed me result\u00f3 interesante. Es esa clase de conclusiones que te dejan pensando y te golpean con fuerza; y cuando cerr\u00e1s el libro, el dolor prevalece . ...more This was a classic Stephen King novel! Roller coaster ride of thrills, twists, and turns! I read the first half of the book in one night as I could not put it down. Last night I finished the other half. The book is about cell phones that get hit with a pulse phenomenon that practically turns the human race into zombies. It was a different kind of zombie experience. You have a rag-tag of survivors that are trying to get out of the city and they meet up with other survivors along the way. Definite This was a classic Stephen King novel! Roller coaster ride of thrills, twists, and turns! I read the first half of the book in one night as I could not put it down. Last night I finished the other half. The book is about cell phones that get hit with a pulse phenomenon that practically turns the human race into zombies. It was a different kind of zombie experience. You have a rag-tag of survivors that are trying to get out of the city and they meet up with other survivors along the way. Definitely an interesting read. Giving it five stars. ...more There have been many who have compared Stephen King's Cell with his earlier Apocalypse-Now effort, The Stand . And there are some good reasons, End-of-the-World setting, the survivors polarized into two camps, one camp, arguably no longer even human, a big bang ending in an arena like setting, etc. But there are differences as well. When King wrote The Stand , it seemed to mark a moment in that writer's life where he was becoming overt in things religious. The Stand is a battle between good and ev There have been many who have compared Stephen King's Cell with his earlier Apocalypse-Now effort, The Stand . And there are some good reasons, End-of-the-World setting, the survivors polarized into two camps, one camp, arguably no longer even human, a big bang ending in an arena like setting, etc. But there are differences as well. When King wrote The Stand , it seemed to mark a moment in that writer's life where he was becoming overt in things religious. The Stand is a battle between good and evil, darkness and light, King's Book of Revelation if you will. Cell is more ambiguous. The zombie like creatures that inhabit the novel are, through no fault of their own, zapped by the \"surge,\" which pretty much wipes out anyone's human hard drive if they happened to own and use a cell phone. No choice there. To some extent, as animal like as they can be, the zombies of Cell are pitiable. Meanwhile, King's little band of survivors are just trying to get somewhere, find some human traction in a world that has been blasted. In particular, there is Clay Riddell, who in his previous pre-Surge life was a graphic artist, and probably something of dreamer. His marriage is probably on the rocks, but he loves his son dearly, and when the deal goes down, he can only think of one thing: to get to him. In King's universe, we now see the Manichean Good and Evil from the Stand being replaced by Cell's Love and Duty. To some extent Cell is similar to Cormac McCarthy's The Road . Both are Father and Son stories; both look beyond the End, to what must remain if we are to survive as a species: Hope. The ending of Cell has bothered some, but I think this is unwarranted. In many ways, it's one of King's most powerful endings, and shows the mature writer that he has become. There is no need for a sequel, and I would be surprised if King wrote one. Cell is a fine effort by King, and one that will be viewed, as time goes by, as one of his best efforts. It has as an effective leanness and nastiness to it that will remind some of Thinner , but also a suggestive depth to it that carries it beyond merely Pulp Fiction. * Note: I think King totally ripped off Simon Clark's Blood Crazy . I still like what King did with it, but I'm dropping a star (from 4 to 3) as a result. Comparing the two, I also think Clark had the better story. ...more I am actually not the biggest Stephen King fan. I went through a kick where some of my favorite old-ish movies, I was going back and reading the books they had been made from - Jaws, The Exorcist, Silence of the Lambs. So of course, I wound up hunting down quite a few Stephen King books. I kept seeing this book on the shelf at the library, and the blurb intrigued me, so finally I checked it out and read it. I really, really liked it! I am a fan of apocalypse/zombie themes, movies, whatevs, and thi I am actually not the biggest Stephen King fan. I went through a kick where some of my favorite old-ish movies, I was going back and reading the books they had been made from - Jaws, The Exorcist, Silence of the Lambs. So of course, I wound up hunting down quite a few Stephen King books. I kept seeing this book on the shelf at the library, and the blurb intrigued me, so finally I checked it out and read it. I really, really liked it! I am a fan of apocalypse/zombie themes, movies, whatevs, and this book is strong with both of those. Of course, there aren't zombies in this book - they are living, breathing human beings. Just ..., changed. Evolved. Different. This book was haunting. There is no denying that very few authors can give you the heebie jeebies as well as Stephen King, and this book is no exception. When the shiz starts hitting the fan, the pandemonium that's described is scary as all get out. The second time I read it, it was late at night and I was in bed downstairs alone. Unbeknownst to me, the teenage neighbors at the end of the street had decided to throw a kegger that turned into a Fight Club. Needless to say, I nearly peed myself as the noise outside seemed to mirror the noise in the book. Like many Stephen King books, this follows a man going through an unusual, terrifying situation, trying to get back to his family and life, and forming friends and allies and foes along the way. A phone call causes everyone who answered their phone to go insane. Our hero didn't have a phone, thankfully. At first, it's a murderous rampage free for all. Then the phone-zombies calm down a little and start to mass together. Never a good sign. Throw in some psychic abilities and a strong telepath, a frightening red sweater, and lots of guns that never really do anything but hurt the ones trying to use them, and you've got an interesting story. I was very excited when I saw that this was being made into a movie - visions of Thomas Jane as the lead dancing through my head. Instead, last I heard John Cusack was cast to play the hero, and I just can't see that. Boo. If you like Stephen King, read this book. If you don't like Stephen King but like scary novels, read this book. If you don't like Stephen King AND you don't like scary novels, then I'm not sure why you're looking at this page. This book rocks. Check it out. ...more Un libro de King que la verdad casi no termino. La primera parte es excelente, \u00e1gil, cautivante, cruda: lo cual es de esperarse de mi autor favorito y, pens\u00e9 que este libro me iba a encantar porque es uno de mis g\u00e9neros favoritos en el mundo: post apocal\u00edptico. Pero, sinceramente, las \u00faltimas 200 hojas fueron confusas, dif\u00edciles de seguir, lentas y simplemente quer\u00eda acabar el libro de una vez... No me conect\u00e9 tanto como normalmente hago con King y sus personajes y la verdad tampoco me cre\u00eda lo qu Un libro de King que la verdad casi no termino. La primera parte es excelente, \u00e1gil, cautivante, cruda: lo cual es de esperarse de mi autor favorito y, pens\u00e9 que este libro me iba a encantar porque es uno de mis g\u00e9neros favoritos en el mundo: post apocal\u00edptico. Pero, sinceramente, las \u00faltimas 200 hojas fueron confusas, dif\u00edciles de seguir, lentas y simplemente quer\u00eda acabar el libro de una vez... No me conect\u00e9 tanto como normalmente hago con King y sus personajes y la verdad tampoco me cre\u00eda lo que me contaba. La resoluci\u00f3n me pareci\u00f3 demasiado f\u00e1cil y conveniente. No s\u00e9, hasta ahora el \u00fanico libro que no me ha gustado completamente Stephen King ...more Zombie sotto carica Inqualificabile romanzo che anela al ribaltamento di alcuni clich\u00e8 horror ben radicati - le figure di riferimento sono Matheson e Romero - , ma crolla in maniera ingiustificata a causa di un ritmo fiacco ed una narrazione che scivola pietosamente nel manierismo pi\u00f9 becero. Pietra tombale anche sui personaggi: insipidi, apatici e tratteggiati con una svogliatezza disarmante. Il finale da ulcera gastrica \u00e8 la ciliegina sulla torta di un'opera che King poteva tranquillamente risp Zombie sotto carica Inqualificabile romanzo che anela al ribaltamento di alcuni clich\u00e8 horror ben radicati - le figure di riferimento sono Matheson e Romero - , ma crolla in maniera ingiustificata a causa di un ritmo fiacco ed una narrazione che scivola pietosamente nel manierismo pi\u00f9 becero. Pietra tombale anche sui personaggi: insipidi, apatici e tratteggiati con una svogliatezza disarmante. Il finale da ulcera gastrica \u00e8 la ciliegina sulla torta di un'opera che King poteva tranquillamente risparmiarsi. ...more A small group of survivors of the so call \"The Pulse\" event , which happened during our obsession with cellphones, comes together and goes from place to place, searching for a safe heaven and a word about their loved ones who turned into zombie-like drones commonly refereed to as \"phone-crazies\" in this book. That's the basic premise of King's spin on the otherwise beaten to death and left to die idea of zombie infestation. The story was fun (although I think it had a much bigger potential)but f A small group of survivors of the so call \"The Pulse\" event , which happened during our obsession with cellphones, comes together and goes from place to place, searching for a safe heaven and a word about their loved ones who turned into zombie-like drones commonly refereed to as \"phone-crazies\" in this book. That's the basic premise of King's spin on the otherwise beaten to death and left to die idea of zombie infestation. The story was fun (although I think it had a much bigger potential)but for what it was, it was good. The characters were good, but I was not buying the fact that Jordon for the most part, almost had everything figured out. I get the fact that he guessed for most of the time and it turned out to be one hell of an intelligent guess, but still. He was very young and a much brighter for his age. I was hoping to read about some take on the \"zombies\" as horrible, disfiguring mutants, maybe some that go on rampage, maybe others that increased in size due to their exposure or something. Alas, it was none of that. Instead, it was average survival tale where characters look after each other while at the same time trying not to think too much about what happened to their loved ones. One think I did not like (I might be picking on small things here), but most of the people who turned were hard working folks. Therefore, I hated when the main characters said stuff like, \"They can all burn in hell\" when referring to them. It was not their fault they turned into zombies. I understand the main characters lost family members, but don't push it by insulting these mindless people while they go on about not being aware of what they did or what they are doing. ALSO, I am very excited that the movie adaptation of Cell is coming to the big screen in 2015, starring Samuel L. Jackson, John Cusack, and the girl from the Orphan (2009) movie. I was not huge fan of the ending. -SPOILER ALERT- DO NOT READ ANY FURTHER IF YOU DON\"T WANT THIS BOOK TO BE TOTALLY RUINED. YOU'VE BEEN WARNED, CONSTANT READER!! It was one of those \"you figure it out by yourself\" types of endings. I guess it was typical for King, but I wish there was a bit more closure on what happened at the end. What happened to the rest of the people who turned and who didn't turn? Did Jordon's crazy theory turn out to be right? Was there a nuclear strike on big cities since the military and bog government officials thought that there was no hope for most people so they decided to start fresh and build a new habitat for the future? What happened to the main characters? Were they ever reunited? Did they see their loved ones ever again? And did they learn their lesson and decide to never use cellphones again? As you can see, just few question that lingered on my mind haha. ...more I was in high school when Peter Benchley\u2019s epic book Jaws became a movie. I used to laugh long and loud at my then-youthful friends who wouldn\u2019t go near the water that summer, and if they did, they spent lots of time furtively glancing around them to make sure the evil shark wasn\u2019t anywhere near, never mind that they were swimming in a public pool or local reservoir. Why do I tell you all this? Because I\u2019m having just a wee bit of a problem picking up my wireless phone on the first ring these da I was in high school when Peter Benchley\u2019s epic book Jaws became a movie. I used to laugh long and loud at my then-youthful friends who wouldn\u2019t go near the water that summer, and if they did, they spent lots of time furtively glancing around them to make sure the evil shark wasn\u2019t anywhere near, never mind that they were swimming in a public pool or local reservoir. Why do I tell you all this? Because I\u2019m having just a wee bit of a problem picking up my wireless phone on the first ring these days, and it\u2019s directly related to the fact that I\u2019ve just finished Stephen King\u2019s \u201cCell,\u201d DB61241. Clay Riddell is on top of the world. He\u2019s just made his first major sale as an illustrator and author of comic book characters to a publisher in Boston. But his entire world is turned upside down and changed forever on a seemingly normal afternoon in Boston. Civil, ordinary cell phone users are turned into murderous zombie-like creatures when they use their wireless phones because of some kind of pulse that is broadcast to their phone which obliterates their minds and reboots their brain somehow. The consequences are awful. Clay witnesses graphically violent murders all around him, and Boston is soon on fire with flames and explosions everywhere. Clay realizes he must get back to Maine to his estranged wife and son, and he remembers with horror that his son got a new red cell phone for his birthday! He manages to attach himself to a group of normal people who do not use cell phones and therefore haven\u2019t been affected by the pulse. Clay and his companions realize they must take action against the Phoners, as the zombies are called. For the Phoners are evolving into a group of people who can communicate telepathically and levitate themselves. The book is violent with graphic details of murder and mayhem. King drops the F bomb in here quite liberally it seems to me. A major character for whom you develop a great deal of sympathy dies, and I think her death was entirely unnecessary. It did nothing but detract from the story as far as I\u2019m concerned. The overarching theme of this book almost seems to be that we need to beware of our increasing dependence on technology and how easy it would be for the right group of people to somehow forever alter our world through the very technology we\u2019ve come to think of as harmless and indeed helpful. Would I read this again? Well, perhaps. It was well written in so many regards, and King\u2019s ability to horrify and tell a gripping story is well known to us all. This wasn\u2019t my favorite King book, but it\u2019s certainly understandable how it can be a bestseller. ...more What can I say that is positive about this book? The only thing that comes to mind is, Thank goodness it was not another page longer. I was committed to finishing this book as writing a review for it would require I push onward to the end. Now here is the deal, I haven't read a King book since I was in middle school, and I can tell you also I was simultaneously reading a Robert McCammon book at the same time. This made my experience with Cell more profound. Here I am reading, The Queen of Bedlam What can I say that is positive about this book? The only thing that comes to mind is, Thank goodness it was not another page longer. I was committed to finishing this book as writing a review for it would require I push onward to the end. Now here is the deal, I haven't read a King book since I was in middle school, and I can tell you also I was simultaneously reading a Robert McCammon book at the same time. This made my experience with Cell more profound. Here I am reading, The Queen of Bedlam, by McCammon an author who seems to paint his books verbally with skillful brush strokes and then I'm reading a book that seems to have been written by a child and never edited. Cell, was not polished and from the acclaim that King was given early on in his career as an author this book just piggy backed on their shoulders and King was able to reap thousands. Most likely laughing all the way to the bank!! The pages of this book are best used as toilet paper, and the script and story line are best never to be heard by human ears again. In this book, Cell phones emit a pulse and those using them become zombies. Fair enough. But oh no, King wasn't done there! That wasn't enough. He had to make the zombies turn all X-men like. Now they don't just chomp brains, they can levitate, yes that wasn't a spelling error. These zombies can make like superman and fly. Uber gay. Then, they have telepathy! WTF! Seriously, King seemed to be grasping at straws for new ideas here! I was waiting for zombies to start shooting laser beams from their eyes and pop out with adamantium claws any second. Telepathic powers wasn't where it ended. These zombies can get into your mind and make you kill yourself. Ummmmm okay?? If there is a book out there that makes you want to kill yourself, Cell is the one! I felt like bashing my own head in at the absurdity of this novel, if novel is really even the right word to describe this book. If I could turn back time I would read, \"One fish, two fish, red fish blue fish\" by Dr. Seuss a thousand times before reading this crappy tome. I guess from now on I'll just stick to reading books from King's drug days, since apparently that's where all of his creative genius came from in the past. ...more I guess I should have a shelf titled \"read-sort of.\" The first 50-75 pages were fairly engaging-- it is a timely concept and the \"what if\" factor keeps the plot moving. Then I realized I was reading The Stand all over again, but a slightly different version where the story actually becomes less interesting the further I read. I skipped ahead. I tried to find parts that didn't bore me. I failed. Then I fell asleep and later woke to a beautiful world where I had the freedom to not finish this book I guess I should have a shelf titled \"read-sort of.\" The first 50-75 pages were fairly engaging-- it is a timely concept and the \"what if\" factor keeps the plot moving. Then I realized I was reading The Stand all over again, but a slightly different version where the story actually becomes less interesting the further I read. I skipped ahead. I tried to find parts that didn't bore me. I failed. Then I fell asleep and later woke to a beautiful world where I had the freedom to not finish this book. ...more My first-ever dance with Stephen King. Yeah, I know I probably should've started with one of his canonical '70s/'80s works. But I picked this up because I was intrigued by the contemporariness of the premise (cell phones cause zombie apocalypse), because it seemed considerably shorter than King's classic novels, and because I was pretty well hooked by the opening pages I read on Amazon. I missed out on King in my childhood because I was way too much of a pussy to handle anything scary. I distinct My first-ever dance with Stephen King. Yeah, I know I probably should've started with one of his canonical '70s/'80s works. But I picked this up because I was intrigued by the contemporariness of the premise (cell phones cause zombie apocalypse), because it seemed considerably shorter than King's classic novels, and because I was pretty well hooked by the opening pages I read on Amazon. I missed out on King in my childhood because I was way too much of a pussy to handle anything scary. I distinctly remember \"buying\" (with my mom's money, no doubt) a copy of Thinner in an airport bookstore as a kid, and then never even cracking it open for fear of the nightmares that lay between its covers. Flash-forward to me in my early twenties, a dude who has developed a taste for Serious Grown-Up Literary Fiction. King isn't really on my reading radar. But a couple of years ago I went to see the film adaptation of The Mist and was surprised at how much I dug it. A friend told me that he thought The Mist was, though not the best film made from a King source, the film that best represented what King's fiction is all about. For the first time since buying that copy of Thinner my interest in King was piqued, and by now I had a concomitant interest in horror cinema. But I had all this Serious Grown-Up Literary Fiction to read! Piles of it! (Around the time The Mist came out, I was going through a major Don DeLillo phase. Actually, that phase hasn't really ended...) So King was lodged way in the back of my mental to-read shelf (this was pre-Goodreads). Flash-forward to a few months ago, when The A.V. Club's Tasha Robinson posted a helpful \"Gateways to Geekery\" entry on Stephen King . That article, along with its enthusiastic reader comments, convinced me I should actually give King a go, for real. I'll cut off the rambling prehistory here and tell you that I found Cell to be highly entertaining, but just as highly problematic. While King's line-by-line writing is okay, not as bad as Harold Bloom would have you believe (but not exactly artful either), his dialogue and characterization are unbelievably crappy. Has he always failed at the fundamentals of creating even one interesting character and giving him/her some convincing things to say? Or is this a drawback of late-period, old-man King? My sense is that King fans just ignore this problem and focus on the things he does well. So I'll give that a try. Unlike some other reviewers here, I liked the strange directions that King took the zombie mythology in. Frankly, I would've been bored and disappointed if the zombies had stayed regular zombies (that particular well has long since run dry, and if you wanna do a zombie story you'd better bring something new to the table; Zombieland accomplished this by mostly ignoring the zombies and concentrating on the comedy). The hive-mind stuff was interesting, and the unraveling of its mystery gave the book a sense of purpose as well as thematic value. I do wish the theories and revelations had come from some sources other than a 12-year-old computer geek prodigy, but whatever. As everyone seems to agree, King does a good job evoking the post-apocalyptic landscape. But his choice to drive much of the book in character-based drama was a mistake, because he is a pathetically poor observer of human behavior. His ideas about laughter, for one thing, are completely weird and wrong, and I cringed whenever he attempted to have his characters express affection for each other. (Which reminds me of another issue: this book has a maudlin streak a mile wide.) It might have worked better with a just-the-facts-ma'am approach to storytelling, all lean narrative momentum. From what I understand, King has always been interested in the behavior of everyday people in supernatural situations, and if I'm going to dive into his back catalog I just hope he used to do that better than he does here; having seen The Mist gives me hope that he did, because the group dynamics in that film were quite well-done IIRC. I thought the open-ended conclusion was appropriate and effective, and the brief final chapter -- sort of a warped alternate take on The Road , actually, although this book was published first -- was one of the coolest and most disturbing things about the novel. I do sort of wish that King had supplied information about the origins of The Pulse, but that's clearly not what he's interested in, so no big deal. Three stars is probably a bit generous, but it was a page-turner, and I'm always inclined to give it up to authors who can pin me in one place for hours at a time. (This doesn't happen often.) I would definitely not mind turning to this guy every once in a while for the occasional fix of pure, stay-up-all-night-to-finish-it entertainment. ...more Absolutely amazing. Stephen King manages to deliver a very successful depiction of the apocalypse through a very simple premise: a call to everyone's cell phone. Those who answer lose their humanity and become what you could call zombies and what ensues is a gruesome battle for those who didn't answer their phones to stay alive. And in the case of our protagonist, a desperate search for his wife and son. This book is very violent and graphic in the description of the brutality that plagues the w Absolutely amazing. Stephen King manages to deliver a very successful depiction of the apocalypse through a very simple premise: a call to everyone's cell phone. Those who answer lose their humanity and become what you could call zombies and what ensues is a gruesome battle for those who didn't answer their phones to stay alive. And in the case of our protagonist, a desperate search for his wife and son. This book is very violent and graphic in the description of the brutality that plagues the world after that call. He holds no punches when depicting this post-apocalyptic society, one when civilation has completely collapsed and where there's only a handful of unnafected people trying to survive. Sounds familiar? Yes, hello \" The Walking Dead\" et al. But the survivors are extremely well defined, they are characters that will stay with you long after you finish the book. It's particularly moving to see the humanity that's missing in so many still standing in the protagonist, Clayton, as he frantically looks for his missing son. All of this with an amazing mastery of prose and a story that flows flawlessly and flies by at a dizzying speed. There is a sub text, I think, that brings up the issue of society's collective aspirations and the ever increasing surge of individualism, cleverly represented by that thing almost everyone can't live without: our cell phone. And kudos to the guy for bringing this to our attention long before the introduction of smartphones just made so many of us live with our noses attached to our phones. There is a lot of violence but there's also a lot of love and compassion. SK makes you think about what it is that makes us human and the importance of love, affection, family and friendships in our lives. That said, if you're looking for a feel-good book, this is not it. And of course, the ending...I don't know if SK does it on purpose but there's a hell of a cliffhanger at the end. Why? If I had to guess, I'd say it is because he doesn't see an end to the loss of humanity that's eroding all of us. At the time it made me angry but now that I've had time to reflect on it I can see how it makes at a little bit of sense. Of course, the book screams for a sequel but I don't think that's in the cards. So all in all, this is a solid five stars for me. A must read for all SK's fans and I highly recommend it to everyone else. ...more In which King Technophobe turns everyone with cell phones into zombies\u2014or rather, into the Borg. I was more into this in the early chapters when it was survivors vs. zombies; the Borgian bits bored me a little. I was also a little skeeved that King chose to make a black man in a Harvard sweatshirt the leader of the Borg army\u2014there\u2019s so much nasty stuff one could read into an educated black dude being used as the representative of the mind-enslaving Big Bad. But I am afraid to touch Stephen \u201cmagi In which King Technophobe turns everyone with cell phones into zombies\u2014or rather, into the Borg. I was more into this in the early chapters when it was survivors vs. zombies; the Borgian bits bored me a little. I was also a little skeeved that King chose to make a black man in a Harvard sweatshirt the leader of the Borg army\u2014there\u2019s so much nasty stuff one could read into an educated black dude being used as the representative of the mind-enslaving Big Bad. But I am afraid to touch Stephen \u201cmagical Negro\u201d King\u2019s racial issues with a ten-foot pole, so I\u2019m just gonna leave it at that. I\u2019m focusing on the negative rather early here, aren\u2019t I? That\u2019s actually not all that fair\u2014there was in fact a lot about this novel that I enjoyed. King is great at envisioning post-apocalyptic landscapes; what you\u2019ve got here in Cell is basically a more succinct version of the good parts of The Stand . So while it never achieves the heights of the best parts of The Stand , it never hits that book\u2019s low points, either. Also, remarkably for King, one of the main characters is a gay man\u2014a gay man who\u2019s awesome! And who actually survives ! The friendship between this fellow, Tom, and Clay, our everyman hero, is by far the best part of this novel. It\u2019s also slashy as hell. At one point, oh-so-hetero Clay actually thinks about how much he is going to miss Tom\u2019s smile. Hee! How has the internet seemingly failed to produce fic for this? I want to read all about Clay and Tom\u2019s wacky post-apocalyptic adventures! Because if surviving the end of the world isn\u2019t the perfect excuse to experiment with your sexuality, I don\u2019t know what is. ...more Just the dose of King that I needed after reading that clunker From a Buick 8....clunker...get it. Okay, my puns aren't always funny. A first time read for me, I couldn't read this fast enough no matter how late I stayed up at night and flew through the pages. It's a fast paced, action packed, gory laced little gem. I actually can't wait to see this adapted into a film....it's rumored to be in the process....but only if they do it right, c'mon on with the gore! I mean don't get crazy, it's on le Just the dose of King that I needed after reading that clunker From a Buick 8....clunker...get it. Okay, my puns aren't always funny. A first time read for me, I couldn't read this fast enough no matter how late I stayed up at night and flew through the pages. It's a fast paced, action packed, gory laced little gem. I actually can't wait to see this adapted into a film....it's rumored to be in the process....but only if they do it right, c'mon on with the gore! I mean don't get crazy, it's on level with the gore you might see on The Walking Dead...think seasons 5 and 6 zombie gore. You get sucked right in and get attached to the characters, I did, every last one dammit! That's what we love about these type of stories though, right? You want to feel what they're feeling. You want to feel the loss when one of them meets a grisly end...sometimes way earlier than you would have liked! The story keeps you moving without skipping a beat and I really loved that about this one. This may or may not leave you feeling satisfied at the end but it's a damn good story. I just keep thinking....taking the whole phone zombie thing kinda literally aren't we Stephen. Run...go pick it up and give it a read! ...more<---C>Johnny</---C>", "Title": "Cell"},
