{"Comments": "Mangle, Decker and Tazeem. A drug dealer, a killer and a fraudster. Not exactly your typical \"heroes\" but these three men have ended up together in prison - following some bad life decisions - and form an unlikely bond in prison. When they are eventually released, they look for ways to make money but stumble upon a sophisticated sex-trafficking operation that leads them in to real danger. A family member disappears and a friend is killed. Will the three men get justice and be brave enough to bring Mangle, Decker and Tazeem. A drug dealer, a killer and a fraudster. Not exactly your typical \"heroes\" but these three men have ended up together in prison - following some bad life decisions - and form an unlikely bond in prison. When they are eventually released, they look for ways to make money but stumble upon a sophisticated sex-trafficking operation that leads them in to real danger. A family member disappears and a friend is killed. Will the three men get justice and be brave enough to bring down \"<+++>The Zombie Room</+++>\"? RD Ronald builds characters who are flawed but who you root for as they bond and prove themselves to be good and brave men. The plot keeps you guessing all the way through and the action is thrilling. Dialogue is a clear strong-point of RD Ronald's writing and his characters speak in a way that make you realise he knows something of this world. This is the second book by new author RD Ronald, a follow-up to his excellent debut \"The Elephant Tree\". ...more I really enjoyed this book; I definitely think this will be a page turner for most readers. There are lots of twists and turns in this Thriller, which is why I liked it so much. The characters were very interesting; each one had divergent backgrounds. When I first started reading this book I thought it was going to be boring and unappealing to my interest; but I was completely wrong. Once I started reading deeper into the book it got more and more intense. It was hard to put down because I could I really enjoyed this book; I definitely think this will be a page turner for most readers. There are lots of twists and turns in this Thriller, which is why I liked it so much. The characters were very interesting; each one had divergent backgrounds. When I first started reading this book I thought it was going to be boring and unappealing to my interest; but I was completely wrong. Once I started reading deeper into the book it got more and more intense. It was hard to put down because I couldn't help but wonder what was going to happen next. A lot of books I've read in the past were boring and not realistic enough for me to stay interested. <+++>The Zombie Room</+++> was a very gratifying read in my opinion. Unlike some books I've read in the past I found this one to be very realistic. I think this book can actually relate to reality which I found to be surprising. As a reader, I felt like I could really understand and relate to some of the characters based on some of their personalities. I don't think I can see anyone becoming bored with this read. The only complaint I really can make about this book is that it was extremely difficult for me to put it down and not think about what's going to happen next in the story. I can definitely see The Zombie Room becoming an action movie in the future. That's a movie I would see without a doubt. In conclusion, if you're enjoy thrillers with lots of actions then I really think you will love this book; the best way I can describe it is it's a page turner for sure! ...more I really should of read the synopsis cause this book isn't about Zombies at all ! BUT it's a great read ,<---M> fast paced </---M>, enough back story to get you by and few twists and turns along the way ! Another great book from RD Ronald. this book as with the elephant tree consumes your mind. it takes you on a journey through lives that you would never normally know exists.<---F> the whole story seems real</---F>. this is a really great (<---B>and scary</---B>) mystery - the characters are extremely realistic, the plot is gripping. check out the author's website for some good clips and more info about his writing. This is a brilliant Thriller. Love the characterization of the main characters Mangle, Decker and Tazeem with different backgrounds who end up together. When I was thinking how the author will connect the Zombie Room to the story, the introduction of Zombie Room was interesting and some parts were really scary. Several fights towards the end were interesting and cinematic. Overall the book was fun and thrilling to read. 4.25/5. This book leaves an impression and makes you think. Very well done. This book covers everything that could be asked for in a novel of its type, it has extensive and believable action, the characters have depth and believability with a true sense of reality running through every page, the plot is a mind blowing reality of the true human condition and how it is affected by extreme circumstances. The emotions and character connections that are found in the book are far beyond anything I have ever read and I am yet to find a story that manages to be as complex in st This book covers everything that could be asked for in a novel of its type, it has extensive and believable action, the characters have depth and believability with a true sense of reality running through every page, the plot is a mind blowing reality of the true human condition and how it is affected by extreme circumstances. The emotions and character connections that are found in the book are far beyond anything I have ever read and I am yet to find a story that manages to be as complex in story line and character creation while at the same time being as easy to follow and be so addictive. This is a MUST read for anyone who wants to delve their minds in to the worlds criminal underworld and feel the sharp edge of empathy towards characters that are bound to stay in memory for a very long time to come. Verdict: outstanding!! ...more Nope, this book isn't one of those annoying zombie dystopian novels despite its title. Actually it's about three men in prison and the way they survive. I found the language too crass and rude sometimes but otherwise The Zombie Room is an excellent novel with themes similar to books and films like The Shawshank Redemption and Prison of Secrets . After reading this authors debut book 'The Elephant Tree' I was excited for his follow up book and my god it did not disappoint, well written, fast paced and with great characters. The book is set in the same world as the previous and the author is create a rich deep world that your immersed in. Might have to get a few copies for stocking filler this year. Bring on the next book please. Started slow, but damnit!!! I have been having nightmares about that exclusive club. THAT is when you know a good book hits you! The Zombie Room is a story about human trafficking. It has a lot of characters, more action and quite a bit of sex.... R.D.Ronald has done a good job of keeping you on the edge of your seat through out this book. You really have to pay attention to everything that is happening to follow it through. It would probably make a great feature length movie one day. I highly recommend reading it. I loved this book from the very beginning, the plot is very cleverly put together. The twists and turns make it impossible to put down. Also, the characters in the Zombie Room stay with you long after you finish the book, they are weirdly endearing criminals. A must-read if you are looking for a good thriller. \"This book is terrible\" was pretty much the consensus of every person in our book club. It's unrealistic, juvenile, misogynistic, and boring. It feels like it was written by an unmediacted 14-year-old boy with ADD who has seen too many bad movies. brilliant book for such a small book it was surprising how much happened. A definite twist at the end. Highly recommend if your into these kind of books. The Zombie Room is fast paced and Ronald's style is engaging. The characters are diverse and effort was obviously expended to make their actions consistent with their background as established in the early pages. That said, the characters remain a somewhat cardboard - though it is a high quality of cardboard. The plot really breaks no new ground in the genre, but I knew that going on so I was not disappointed. I did find the end somewhat unsatisfying. If this is the first part of a multi-part sa The Zombie Room is fast paced and Ronald's style is engaging. The characters are diverse and effort was obviously expended to make their actions consistent with their background as established in the early pages. That said, the characters remain a somewhat cardboard - though it is a high quality of cardboard. The plot really breaks no new ground in the genre, but I knew that going on so I was not disappointed. I did find the end somewhat unsatisfying. If this is the first part of a multi-part saga then there is time to fix that. I would read a second part to see the story come to a more fulfilling conclusion. And I would like to see more of these characters, especially Decker. If you are not expecting a Bosch, Reacher or John Rain you will have a good time with this book. But if pulp fiction is a turn off, you might want to look elsewhere. ...more Transgressive crime writer , I know what it means. I like it. IT HAS A GOOD TITLE...IM SO EXCITED TO READ THIS STORY! \u201cThe Zombie Room\u201d by <---A>R.D. Ronald</---A> is a very high intensity, action packed thriller with lots of violence and shoot-outs. This is a book for someone who likes suspenseful, plot twisting, quick progression style books. The story follows three convicts with very different backgrounds who meet in prison and become very close friends. Tazeem, Mangle, and Decker are so close that even after their prison sentences, they remain best friends. After prison the story picks up very quickly. They look for leg \u201cThe Zombie Room\u201d by R.D. Ronald is a very high intensity, action packed thriller with lots of violence and shoot-outs. This is a book for someone who likes suspenseful, plot twisting, quick progression style books. The story follows three convicts with very different backgrounds who meet in prison and become very close friends. Tazeem, Mangle, and Decker are so close that even after their prison sentences, they remain best friends. After prison the story picks up very quickly. They look for legal employment but quickly find out that no one wants to hire ex-convicts. So after a while of job hunting they decide to stick to what they\u2019re good at, criminal activity. For a while they live off small scale scams and heists, and manage to stay under the radar. As the first major plot twist comes into play, the trio ends up stumbling across a major prostitution and smuggling ring at a strip club. After a little research on the place the guys find out that Tazeem\u2019s rival enemy, Sadiq, is the leader of the prostitution ring. Tazeem and Sadiq go way back before prison and have always hated each other. R.D. Ronald makes their hatred very apparent in the story but never exactly said why they hate each other or what happened between them before prison. Tazeem is determined to legally bring down the crime ring with the help of authorities. So the trio does a little investigating at the strip club, before they go to the police, and easily find evidence of prostitution. They also find out about a secret room called the zombie room where way more heinous things occur like human trafficking and brainwashing. The trio is having a hard time getting into the zombie room as well as going to the police because most of them are dirty cops involved in the crime ring. They try to get help and answers from the women being kidnapped and smuggled; but they\u2019re all useless because of the heavy brainwashing resulting from sessions in the zombie room. The very successful brainwashing leaves the women mentally disabled and ready to do whatever they are told to do, just like a zombie. Finally towards the end of the story, the guys catch a break because one smuggled girls named Tatiana is deaf which means she can\u2019t be brainwashed in the zombie room. She becomes their biggest ally and is willing to help them 100 percent to bring down the smuggling and prostitution scheme, along with it\u2019s ruthless leader, Sadiq. Overall this book is a five star rating because of its high intensity and suspense that keeps you on the edge of your seat. Its not a particularly hard read book, but it does have good length to it. However because of the fast pace and non-stop action it will be read very quickly because its very hard to put down. This is not a book for a critique on character development, organization, or anything like that because frankly, it lacks most of those things. Its not meant to have strongly developed characters or a well thought out theme; its just meant to be a violent, suspenseful thriller. In this aspect, R.D. Ronald did a fantastic job delivering, and \u201cThe Zombie Room\u201d is an instant classic that should be read by all crime and action lovers. Word Count: 561 ...more This book has loads of great twists and turns, I seriously didn't put it down and finished it in 3 days! BORRRRRIIIIIIINNNNNNNGGGGGGGGGGG!!!!!!!!! The Zombie Room is about three guys who meet in prison, try to go straight, get involved in a little scam and stumble into a sex trafficking gang. The start of the book is highly enjoyable, but as more action is added in the second half the author occasionally failed to describe the scenes accurately and appropriately so that I was confused as to the layout of a scene, or how they are now on foot when previously driving. Tiny points but should have been picked up in the editing. (view spoiler) [The The Zombie Room is about three guys who meet in prison, try to go straight, get involved in a little scam and stumble into a sex trafficking gang. The start of the book is highly enjoyable, but as more action is added in the second half the author occasionally failed to describe the scenes accurately and appropriately so that I was confused as to the layout of a scene, or how they are now on foot when previously driving. Tiny points but should have been picked up in the editing. (view spoiler) [The biggest problem for me though was the abrupt ending, I actually thought there was an issue with the ebook version as it just seems to stop with no real resolution. I know life doesn't have neat endings, but I want to know just a little more about the central characters post all the excitement and indeed, the baddies. Perhaps there is a follow up planed, but the Kindle version that I read via the Android app just stops. (hide spoiler) ] ...more The Zombie Room is a coming-of-age story of youth culture, delinquency, criminality, and ultimately murder. Three anti-hero protagonists held to account for their past actions and then confronted by a much more serious situation when they don't learn from past mistakes. Zippy writing that conjured some great visuals. Pretty daring, with some unexpected twists, cleverly sustained dramatics and moments of dark humour. I enjoyed the storyline and multiple sinister elements and characters. The human The Zombie Room is a coming-of-age story of youth culture, delinquency, criminality, and ultimately murder. Three anti-hero protagonists held to account for their past actions and then confronted by a much more serious situation when they don't learn from past mistakes. Zippy writing that conjured some great visuals. Pretty daring, with some unexpected twists, cleverly sustained dramatics and moments of dark humour. I enjoyed the storyline and multiple sinister elements and characters. The human trafficking aspect piqued my interest and it also added quite a bit of sex into this gritty story. Lots of vividly written graphic scenes. I like books that take me to seriously dark and sketchy places while sitting comfortably and safely on my couch. The Zombie Room did just that. It is well-written and nicely edited which makes for a smooth read, albeit a dark and frightening one at times. I loved it. ...more Loved this book. I read 'The Elephant Tree', Ronald's first novel last year, and had to pick up 'The Zombie Room' when it came out this year. Ronald picks up the pace in this novel, with WAY more action, more characters, and even a cameo from a character in his first book. I'm excited that he linked the two novels, evolving the world in which they belong... and also their stories. This novel deals with race, prison, violence, sex trafficking, illegal immigration.... and much more. It reads like a Loved this book. I read 'The Elephant Tree', Ronald's first novel last year, and had to pick up 'The Zombie Room' when it came out this year. Ronald picks up the pace in this novel, with WAY more action, more characters, and even a cameo from a character in his first book. I'm excited that he linked the two novels, evolving the world in which they belong... and also their stories. This novel deals with race, prison, violence, sex trafficking, illegal immigration.... and much more. It reads like an action movie, in fact, probably should become one! ...more I had high expectations with this novel. Actually the beginning part of this book was highly enjoyable and the events turned out pretty fast paced with unpredictable story line. But after second half, the story was really confusing .I was bemused by how it would start talking about one character then the next swipe of the book would start talking about something else. And the worst part of this book was the ending. The abrupt ending was highly disappointing . The Zombie Room has an intelligent p I had high expectations with this novel. Actually the beginning part of this book was highly enjoyable and the events turned out pretty fast paced with unpredictable story line. But after second half, the story was really confusing .I was bemused by how it would start talking about one character then the next swipe of the book would start talking about something else. And the worst part of this book was the ending. The abrupt ending was highly disappointing . The Zombie Room has an intelligent premise, but it could have been better executed. ...more 1.5 I don't really read much from this genre so I really tried to be openminded about it. The story was flat for me, no character depth, the story felt scattered, and I really found myself not caring what happened. The writing flow and rapid change of POV was a real issue for me. If I hadn't of needed this for two challenges I probably would of DNF it. The only good thing I can say is that at least it was short. Well I have a few different feelings about this book. This is my first novel I've read by this author. I went from intrigued, to curious, to confusion, then at last disappointment. I get the whole storyline and that was good, but if you're looking for a happy ending or any kind of vengeance for the victims, you are not going to find it here. And I'm not sure if it was the kindle format or what, but I was so confused by how it would start talking about one character then the next swipe of the boo Well I have a few different feelings about this book. This is my first novel I've read by this author. I went from intrigued, to curious, to confusion, then at last disappointment. I get the whole storyline and that was good, but if you're looking for a happy ending or any kind of vengeance for the victims, you are not going to find it here. And I'm not sure if it was the kindle format or what, but I was so confused by how it would start talking about one character then the next swipe of the book would start talking about someone/thing else. And I did find a few discrepancies. For instance, when Mohammad is bringing the money, and he is clearly the only one in the scene, then it says that Sadiq unzips the bag. Hello? No Sadiq in this scene. It was just odd to read. Not the worst I've spent on a mediocre book. It just could have been better. ...more This story is gritty and exciting throughout. Excellently well developed characters. Good writing style. The characters are interesting and the plot unpredictable. A coming of age story where wrong choices lead to very bad places. This book was written poorly; the format was strange and it skipped around too much an had no way of differentiating when the narrator was talking about a new character. I don't recommend. Well written and dark. I liked it.<---C>R.D. Ronald</---C>", "Title": "The Zombie Room"},
