{"Comments": "<+++>Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas</+++> is an amazing love story, for me it was a page turner that I read in less than 24 hours (<---B>quite a feat with a nursing baby</---B>)! It is an incredible fictional love story set in New York and Martha\u2019s Vineyard. Part of the book includes experiences from the author\u2019s life. It starts out with Katie,<---M> whose lover of 11 months</---M>, Matt, (from whom she thought a marriage proposal imminent), unexpectedly leaves with no explanation. He sends Katie an apologetic letter, saying he is to <+++>Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas</+++> is an amazing love story, for me it was a page turner that I read in less than 24 hours (quite a feat with a nursing baby)! It is an incredible fictional love story set in New York and Martha\u2019s Vineyard. Part of the book includes experiences from the author\u2019s life. It starts out with Katie, whose lover of 11 months, Matt, (from whom she thought a marriage proposal imminent), unexpectedly leaves with no explanation. He sends Katie an apologetic letter, saying he is to blame and that he hopes she can understand better by reading Suzanne\u2019s Diary for Nicholas. We feel a tremendous amount of joy and heartache sharing in Katie\u2019s experience reading Suzanne\u2019s diary for her son Nicholas. Throughout the novel, one is anxiously reading on to find out the mystery of why Matt would leave, and what happened to turn upside-down a once picture-perfect life. There are so many interesting twists in the plot which capture one\u2019s interest. In addition, the book imparts some important life lessons along the way. Messages that come from it are the importance of a balanced life, the importance of finding the right person to be with, and the importance of family and love. As a mother to three young children, I wholly related to Suzanne\u2019s feelings toward her son, Nicholas. I also related to the loving relationship between Suzanne and her husband. I think I might want to name my next son Nicholas after reading this book (if I have another)! Here are sweet poems written to Nicholas which imparts the joy of having a beautiful, innocent, baby: 1) You\u2019re my little Nicky Knack I love you so, you love me back. I love your toes, your knees, your nose, And everywhere a big kiss goes. I kiss you tons, and know what then? I have to kiss you once again. 2) Nickels and dimes I love you in rhythms I love you in rhymes I love you in laughter Here and ever after Then I love you a million Gazillion more times! Here is the story of the 5 balls: Imagine life is a game in which you are juggling five balls. The balls are called work, family, health, friends, and integrity. And you\u2019re keeping all of them in the air. But one day you finally come to understand that work is a rubber ball. If you drop it, it will bounce back. The other four balls- family, health, friends, integrity- are made of glass. If you drop one of these, it will be irrevocably scuffed, nicked, perhaps even shattered. And once you truly understand the lesson of the five balls, you will have the beginnings of balance in your life. Other good thoughts: \u201cLife doesn\u2019t go on forever.<---F> Enjoy every moment of it</---F>.\u201d \u201cIsn\u2019t it lucky?\u201d \u201cYou are growing up before our eyes, and it is such a glorious thing to watch. I savor each moment. I hope all the other mommies and daddies are remembering to savor these moments and have the time to do so... I love watching you grow, but at the same time I don\u2019t like seeing this time fly by so fast. It\u2019s hard to explain; I don\u2019t really know how. But there\u2019s something so precious about watching your child day after day after day. I want to hold on to every moment, every smile, every single hug and kiss. I suppose it has to do with loving to be needed and needing to give love.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s late, and Daddy and I are being silly geese... We couldn\u2019t resist, so we sneaked into your room and watched over you for several moments. We held hands and blew you kisses... [we] hugged each other as we watched you sleep- which is one of the greatest pleasures in the word- don\u2019t miss watching your child sleep.\u201d [Eric and I LOVE to watch little Michael sleeping... we can\u2019t help going in to look at him several time between when he goes to bed and we go to bed.] \u201cOh my dear little boy, my innocent little sweetheart, my baby son forever. I miss you so much...I miss you so much, I miss you so much, sweet baby. I always will. But isn\u2019t it lucky that I knew you, held you and loved you, for the [time] before God took you away? Isn\u2019t it lucky that I got to know you, sweet little boy, my darling, darling son?\u201d ...more This book was the worst I've read. I actually felt less intelligent when I finished it. I feel empathy for people who think this is quality writing. Put it this way, the book was so bad that the movie was better. I actually liked the movie a lot, which means it wasn't the story, it was the author. Patterson needs to stick to mystery or whatever he does... ...Did I mention I didn't like this book at all? Ovaj romanti\u010dni iskorak u Patersonovom opusu ne zaostaje za Nikolasom Sparksom... :) I've read more of <---A>James Patterson</---A>'s novels than I care to admit, and from what I've observed, their general pattern is a little bit of exposition followed by some drama and suspense, which is mostly boring or unbelievably contrived (or both), followed by some sappy, overly-sentimental, unimaginative, and highly predictable denouement. Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas is a deviation from Patterson's mode of operation in the following respect: it isn't suspenseful or even remotely thrilling. Not even I've read more of James Patterson's novels than I care to admit, and from what I've observed, their general pattern is a little bit of exposition followed by some drama and suspense, which is mostly boring or unbelievably contrived (or both), followed by some sappy, overly-sentimental, unimaginative, and highly predictable denouement. Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas is a deviation from Patterson's mode of operation in the following respect: it isn't suspenseful or even remotely thrilling. Not even if you stand on your head, squint your eyes, and read it backwards. While preparing to jump out of an airplane. Flying over the Marianas Trench. It's just plain cheesy, in a vomit-inducing kind of way. And that's a bold statement, coming from a cheese-lover. On principle, I like to finish anything I start, but I couldn't even get through this one. This book is the sappiest, corniest, lamest, most boring and unromantic piece of crap since... well, probably since the Patterson novel that immediately preceded it. Love story? Please. Do yourself a favor and watch \"The Notebook\" instead. ...more I still rue the day I picked up this book from the library and even more, reading the first page. The overly-contrived plot contains unbelievably \"perfect\" characters and comes off as just hokey and ridiculous. Oh, how I regret reading to the end. The sappy sentimentality. The over-the-top crude attempts at \"tear-jerker moments.\" I resent James Patterson's theft of the three hours of my life it took to read this (although it would have been less had I not kept putting it down to debate whether t I still rue the day I picked up this book from the library and even more, reading the first page. The overly-contrived plot contains unbelievably \"perfect\" characters and comes off as just hokey and ridiculous. Oh, how I regret reading to the end. The sappy sentimentality. The over-the-top crude attempts at \"tear-jerker moments.\" I resent James Patterson's theft of the three hours of my life it took to read this (although it would have been less had I not kept putting it down to debate whether to invest any more time). When the book ended, I hated the characters. My contempt for this book ranks right up there with the movie \"City of Angels\", which I still regret going to see. Any tears I shed were from rage and frustration. ...more What's french for yuck? Eek. Or ew. Guys, this book is taking the cheese and the melodramatic Hallmark imprint to a whole new level. My God, my teeth hurt from all the saccharine, and I actually feel my pregnancy hormones getting pissed. This is why I shouldn't ever read another romance written by a man, even Nicholas Sparks in his worst moments is less sappy. Yuck. Mister Patterson, please, stay to the creepy mass murderers, thank you. Katie, a book editor in New York, has been left by the man that she hoped to marry someday. Matt, a poet from Martha's Vineyard, drops off a diary by Katie's door to help her understand his actions. His first wife, Suzanne, wrote this diary to their son Nicholas, telling him about her move to Martha's Vineyard, falling in love with his father, and the happiness she found in motherhood. When Suzanne had health problems, a friend told her a story about getting better balance in one's life. Life is Katie, a book editor in New York, has been left by the man that she hoped to marry someday. Matt, a poet from Martha's Vineyard, drops off a diary by Katie's door to help her understand his actions. His first wife, Suzanne, wrote this diary to their son Nicholas, telling him about her move to Martha's Vineyard, falling in love with his father, and the happiness she found in motherhood. When Suzanne had health problems, a friend told her a story about getting better balance in one's life. Life is a game in which you are juggling five balls--work, family, health, friends, and integrity. You're trying to keep them all in the air. But work is a rubber ball that will bounce if it is dropped. The other four balls are made of glass, and will be harmed or shattered if they are dropped. The author had the experience of losing a woman he loved when she developed a brain tumor. Years later he married his present wife. In the book Patterson shows that a person can fear to love again, wondering if they are setting themselves up for more heartache. The book had some good messages about love, and about keeping balance in one's life. But it was overly sweet with a predictable plot. The author seemed to follow a similar formula as Nicholas Sparks, so fans of Sparks' romance novels would probably enjoy this story. ...more I absolutely LOVED this book from start to finish. <---C>Katie Wilkinson</---C> has found the love of her life and couldn't be any more in love with Matt if she tried. Matt is a writer and a house painter and he is also very much in love with Katie. But then one day out of the blue Matt disappears with no explanation and Katie is left wondering what went wrong when things were so perfect between the two of them. Then Katie finds a package on the front door step which turns out to be a diary left by Matt. With I absolutely LOVED this book from start to finish. Katie Wilkinson has found the love of her life and couldn't be any more in love with Matt if she tried. Matt is a writer and a house painter and he is also very much in love with Katie. But then one day out of the blue Matt disappears with no explanation and Katie is left wondering what went wrong when things were so perfect between the two of them. Then Katie finds a package on the front door step which turns out to be a diary left by Matt. With the diary Matt leaves a note which says, maybe this diary will explain things better than I ever could. If you have the heart, read it. It's about my wife and son and me. And so Katie begins to read the diary and she finds out so much more about Matt than she could ever imagine. At times whilst reading the diary Katie is overwhelmed with what she reads and learns about Matt's life. Although this story was heart wrenching, touching and at times quite sad it was still a beautiful love story. I have no hesitation in recommending this wonderful page turner. Don't forget to have a box of tissues handy. ...more I have never read any James Patterson books and after reading this one I don't think I'll ever read another. There were so many things wrong with this book I don't know where to begin. This book is a love story, and I usually love a good romance, but it was so saccharine-sweet it made it unbelievable! I didn't find it at all touching, okay, maybe when the second twist was revealed, but everything before and after that was so sappy and overly sentimental that it was hard to stand. Thank goodness I have never read any James Patterson books and after reading this one I don't think I'll ever read another. There were so many things wrong with this book I don't know where to begin. This book is a love story, and I usually love a good romance, but it was so saccharine-sweet it made it unbelievable! I didn't find it at all touching, okay, maybe when the second twist was revealed, but everything before and after that was so sappy and overly sentimental that it was hard to stand. Thank goodness this was a quick read! For me, a love story has to at least give me a good cry for it to be any good and this one left me unemotional. Most of the story is about a woman writing a diary to her newborn son. The diary contains how her and her son's father met and their undying love for each other and their newborn son. I like this idea but even the way this was written made it unbelievable! There were times where I asked myself, \"Who is she writing this diary to?\", \"Is she really writing in this diary about how her son's father unbuttoned her blouse, slipped her blouse off, put his hands on her hips and bed her?\", \"Really, is that something you would tell your son?\" I was confused. I think Patterson also meant for this book to me somewhat inspirational leaving us with cheesy metaphors and quotes, like those you'll find in fortune cookies, inspirational daily calendars or mass chain emails. Like I said, completely unmoved. I was left only with its sticky, syrupy sweetness that I can't seem to remove. Yuck! ...more All I know is that it was a love novel written by a man. Yep, this didn't work out one bit. Basically it felt like a book written by one of the guys off of \"This Old House.\" Damn they are good with building things but expressing love and the intricacies of the heart... yeah no. Stick to his crime novels because this one leaves you wanting to kick yourself in the balls for even had read it, if that was possible. I read this one on a plane and at some point the stewardess came up to my row and gave me tissues. If a book is written well or talks about a touchy subject, I can be a tad emotional. This book did it for me. Im used to Pattersons murder mystery novels so this was a definite change from the norm. I would say I probably prefer the murder mysteries over the sappy stories but he did a pretty good job with this one. ************************************** Amazon.com James Patterson, author of such bests I read this one on a plane and at some point the stewardess came up to my row and gave me tissues. If a book is written well or talks about a touchy subject, I can be a tad emotional. This book did it for me. Im used to Pattersons murder mystery novels so this was a definite change from the norm. I would say I probably prefer the murder mysteries over the sappy stories but he did a pretty good job with this one. ************************************** Amazon.com James Patterson, author of such bestsellers-turned-blockbuster-movies as Along Came a Spider and Kiss the Girls, exposes his sensitive side in his new novel, Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas. Katie Wilkinson's boyfriend Matt dumps her; not a total cad, he leaves her a gift, a diary kept by Suzanne, his first wife, for their son Nicholas. Though it's not exactly the diamond ring Katie was hoping for, she's unable to make herself destroy the diary--against her better judgment, Katie begins to read. Drawn against her will into the other woman 's world, Katie learns of physician Suzanne's heart attack at age 35 and her decision to slow down, accomplished by a move to Martha's Vineyard and a new job as a simple country doctor. When love comes knocking, in the form of housepainter-cum-poet Matt Harrison, Suzanne is ready to listen to her newly repaired heart. Though painful for Katie, she begins to know and like Suzanne and her infant son Nicholas. Suzanne's devotion to Matt and their son shines through, as well as her plainspoken wisdom. While the journal helps Katie understand Matt, whether they can write a future together remains in question. ...more Book on CD narrated by Becky Ann Baker ZERO stars (but I'll give Baker 1 star for her narration) Quick, I need a blood glucose test to be sure I haven\u2019t developed diabetes! Think Nicholas Sparks and Robert James Waller, but nowhere near so good \u2013 and that\u2019s saying a lot, as they aren\u2019t all that great. This is just too awful for words. Patterson is shamelessly cashing in on the trend for male authors to write saccharine tear-jerker love stories. Kate has just been dumped by her perfect boyfriend, M Book on CD narrated by Becky Ann Baker ZERO stars (but I'll give Baker 1 star for her narration) Quick, I need a blood glucose test to be sure I haven\u2019t developed diabetes! Think Nicholas Sparks and Robert James Waller, but nowhere near so good \u2013 and that\u2019s saying a lot, as they aren\u2019t all that great. This is just too awful for words. Patterson is shamelessly cashing in on the trend for male authors to write saccharine tear-jerker love stories. Kate has just been dumped by her perfect boyfriend, Matt, without warning, but he sends her a package \u2013 it\u2019s his wife\u2019s diary and is supposed to explain why he\u2019s left Kate. The whole thing is predictable, melodramatic, and just plain stupid. Mercifully (for the reader) this is a quick read (or listen), so the pain doesn\u2019t last too long. (view spoiler) [ The saddest part is when the dog dies \u2013 and that\u2019s not all that sad. At least the dog didn\u2019t have to put up with these idiots any longer! (hide spoiler) ] ...more This book is my ALL-TIME favourite book :) I absolutely love it. James Patterson has done a brilliant job with the story and its presentation. I've read this book a thousand times. It makes you think about a 101 things related to life and its twists & turns. The story helped me understand that life is not always sweet, not always fair and things do not always turn out the way we want them to. But if we are patient and just keep going - we'll eventually find things that are sweet, that are fa This book is my ALL-TIME favourite book :) I absolutely love it. James Patterson has done a brilliant job with the story and its presentation. I've read this book a thousand times. It makes you think about a 101 things related to life and its twists & turns. The story helped me understand that life is not always sweet, not always fair and things do not always turn out the way we want them to. But if we are patient and just keep going - we'll eventually find things that are sweet, that are fair and somewhere along the way true love as well :) ...more This was a very fast read. I wanted to read a sappy book, and this was sappy at its worst form. However, that being said, I like my sap to be a little more realistic. I want sap that resonates with real life, not one that is so full of perfect people that it never comes across as true. There were so many things wrong with this book. I hate reading books that I am picking apart as I read them and this book was like that from start to finish. The book title was a bit misleading for me. I thought th This was a very fast read. I wanted to read a sappy book, and this was sappy at its worst form. However, that being said, I like my sap to be a little more realistic. I want sap that resonates with real life, not one that is so full of perfect people that it never comes across as true. There were so many things wrong with this book. I hate reading books that I am picking apart as I read them and this book was like that from start to finish. The book title was a bit misleading for me. I thought this book was going to be about a dying mother (Suzanne) who writes her son (Nicholas) a diary so he can have something to remember her by, but really what this story is more about is the love story between Suzanne and Matt...and Katie. But back to picking the book apart: --You can basically throw out the diary part of this. Why? Nobody writes in their diary like this. Not that I keep one, but I definitely cannot see anyone writing in their diary like this. Mental dialogue is written down, descriptions of sex (I thought this was a diary for your son, Suzanne) are noted, narrative descriptions of objects (such as a car speeding down the road). It would have rang more true if the author had stuck to a narrative-type format. --Every charachter is simply beautiful. And even when the character claims they are not beautiful, you know the reader is supposed to think they are and that the character is even more beautiful on the inside because they possess a humilty about their looks. I can't stand this in a book. There's an art about being subtle in describing characters in a book, but I really hate when a book starts off by letting you know you will be reading about gorgeous people who's only flaw is the drama they will be faced with as the story goes on. --I hate quirkiness that sounds contrived. People here quote Walt Whitman in normal conversation, have dogs and cats named Gustavus and Guinevere (and yes, it's two separate owners). One can't help but roll their eyes when reading this. The drama in the book was too maniopulative for me. We were supposed to like both Suzanne and Katie and Matt. Oh, what a dilemma! There were no characters to really hate. None of the characters rang true and so I could never be brought to care about them. Not quite sure why I gave this two stars. Maybe cause it read fast and so I'm grateful that I did not have to yawn through the story. These one teetered between a one and a two, closer to a one. ...more Predictable garbage trying to be deep and passionate. NO! Truly awful writing. Never cared an ounce for the charters. Patterson has written about 800 books. He should really think about quality first. AVOID! \"Neizmjerno sam voleo Suzan. Nema tih re\u010di kojima bih ti preneo \u0161ta zna\u010di kad te zadesi sre\u0107a da na\u0111e\u0161 \u017eenu koju mo\u017ee\u0161 toliko da voli\u0161, a koja ti, \u0161to je \u010dudo nad \u010dudima, uzvra\u0107a ljubav istom merom. Ona je bila najvelikodu\u0161nija osoba koju sam sreo, blagonaklona i ose\u0107ajna. Ono \u0161to mi se kod nje najvi\u0161e dopadalo jeste \u0161to je umela da te saslu\u0161a. I duhovita je bila. I sada bi izvalila neku \u0161alu. Siguran sam da bi. Mo\u017eda to i \u010dini. Sme\u0161ka\u0161 li se sada, Suzan? Voleo bih da je tako. Verujem da je tako \"Neizmjerno sam voleo Suzan. Nema tih re\u010di kojima bih ti preneo \u0161ta zna\u010di kad te zadesi sre\u0107a da na\u0111e\u0161 \u017eenu koju mo\u017ee\u0161 toliko da voli\u0161, a koja ti, \u0161to je \u010dudo nad \u010dudima, uzvra\u0107a ljubav istom merom. Ona je bila najvelikodu\u0161nija osoba koju sam sreo, blagonaklona i ose\u0107ajna. Ono \u0161to mi se kod nje najvi\u0161e dopadalo jeste \u0161to je umela da te saslu\u0161a. I duhovita je bila. I sada bi izvalila neku \u0161alu. Siguran sam da bi. Mo\u017eda to i \u010dini. Sme\u0161ka\u0161 li se sada, Suzan? Voleo bih da je tako. Verujem da je tako.\" ...more \"Neizmerno sam voleo Suzan. Nema tih re\u010di kojima bih ti preneo \u0161ta zna\u010di kad te zadesi sre\u0107a da na\u0111e\u0161 \u017eenu koju mo\u017ee\u0161 toliko da voli\u0161, a koja ti, \u0161to je \u010dudo nad \u010dudima, uzvra\u0107a ljubav istom merom.\" Divnoo <3 I first find James Patterson's way of telling a love story in the movie version of Sundays at Tiffany's , where its story is very much different with Capote and Audrey Hepburn. It was about the spirit of a man taking into human shape, given a mission to make a woman happy, but fell in love eventually, torn between his mission for another and his mission for reaching happiness. In my personal way of browsing the shelves of Book Sale in Market-Market , I was lucky to have found this book. Compromisin I first find James Patterson's way of telling a love story in the movie version of Sundays at Tiffany's , where its story is very much different with Capote and Audrey Hepburn. It was about the spirit of a man taking into human shape, given a mission to make a woman happy, but fell in love eventually, torn between his mission for another and his mission for reaching happiness. In my personal way of browsing the shelves of Book Sale in Market-Market , I was lucky to have found this book. Compromising the price of Php145 to the quality of the book not being in mint condition, I believed this is going to be a goodread. And it was. Crying is so refreshing, especially if you are uncontrollably sympathizing to the characters of the story . The story started with Katie , knowing that she is irrevocably in love with Matt , questionably left her broken hearted. I tend to ask why as my way of participating as a reader, but the initial answer was open the package and read the diary, Katie. Matt never expected to fall in love with her, but he did. The ink and the epistles that consist the entries of Suzanne to her Nicholas stung Katie. Who is Nicholas? Why Matt warned her that some entries are so hard to read? Why insist on reading it rather than explaining some things in her face? And so me and Katie as the readers started turning the pages. Review and Reflections: The first entry started with simple introductions of Suzanne to his son, Nicholas. As a woman whose parents died of early age, she wanted to write a diary to her son to be reminded of her when he grew up. Suzanne wanted to be remembered as a mother. In this simple way of opening up to a kid full of innocence, this is her way for her kid to remember love. May it be not only with words and actions, but also with a keepsake. Wouldn't you be grateful that your mother is by your side as you grew up? I was, and still I am. I remember her songs, her biblical parables, her sermons , life lessons, and girl talks. I remember her tips in shopping, her sense of direction, and her heart in explaining her disposition. But it is not only a communication between Suzanne and Nicholas; it is also a heart-to-heart talk with Katie. That she feels the same . Moving along the diary entries we learned that Suzanne has a successful career, broken up with a career-driven man, changed her whole life and made new beginnings, and eventually fell in love - with a painter and a writer. I also remember my mother's story of The Cat Race . When we complicate things, we become problematic, and at one point, we may experience a heart attack. Suzanne emphasized the story of five balls - where career is a bouncing ball, while the rest are glasses, breakable and vulnerable. I even remember telling this to a bookworm that career is just a career. LETSENG CAREER YAN, iinom na lang natin yan. hahaha I won't go into details and twists of Suzanne's love story because this is part of the treat Patterson wanted you to read, especially if you are simply romantic . Just read them along. And let me point it out: it is not only the love story element that made the novel gripping, but also her simple language conveying lessons to Nicholas and eliciting memories with Matt. There are quotable quotes in this book, and let me mention a few (together with my reflections). Love between two people can last a long time if the people love themselves some and are ready to give love to another person . We are not here needing love , we are needing to be belonged . Before we love our lovers we should be whole and love ourselves first. We should feel the purity and intensity of it. After all, When it is true, when it is right, love can give you the kind of joy that you can't get from any other experience... Because to be without love is to be without grace, what matters most in life . And as we see Suzanne's challenge in her workplace and in her own life, we see that Life doesn't go on forever. We are here to savor every moment of it, breathing it all in, feeling lucky and grateful. In one of her sharing of an experience with her patient (and I will not disclose even there is a spoiler alert), we realize that we are fragile, and we are to remember how life can be like walking on a high wire. Falling seems a tiny misstep away . The heaviest part of the story is where we all thought this is only a heart-to-heart talk between Katie, Suzanne, and the non-talking Nicholas. Life can be unforgiving sometimes . When I saw a leaf containing Matthew , my heart skipped a beat. WHY DID MATT MADE A DIARY ENTRY? It is for me as a reader to find out. I WAS CRYING IN MY WORK DESK DURING MY DOWNTIME and my colleagues saw me. A laughing matter, yes, but I cannot control it. I felt betrayed . Where was he? Why did he write that? What to do now? I asked with Katie. Katie made her move, grabbing the lessons of the five balls as her weapon, deserving her own happily ever after. I don't wish to have a life like Suzanne's or Katie's, I wished to live it full or wishes and dreams coming into life. This emotional rollercoaster story made us realize that we a simply lucky to live each moment everyday, keeping these little things as our keepsakes, weaving our own bracelets, or writing our own diary entries. ...more I have some pet peeves when it comes to books. One of my pet peeves is \"perfect\" (and therefore unrelatable) characters. But Patterson is quite a trickster- making you think that at least one of these characters has a fatal flaw. But nope. In the end we discover that all characters were perfect after all- perfect looking (well, there is the one girl who thinks she's too tall. Like a model), perfect acting (always thoughtful, always kind, always good-humored, open and loving and talented with goo I have some pet peeves when it comes to books. One of my pet peeves is \"perfect\" (and therefore unrelatable) characters. But Patterson is quite a trickster- making you think that at least one of these characters has a fatal flaw. But nope. In the end we discover that all characters were perfect after all- perfect looking (well, there is the one girl who thinks she's too tall. Like a model), perfect acting (always thoughtful, always kind, always good-humored, open and loving and talented with good taste), rich, educated, sociable, beloved by all... Sorry. I just puked in my mouth a little. I mean the leading man, Matt, is not only tall and handsome and humble and handy, but he's also an emotionally sensitive poet that dances with his wife on the beach and makes love like a fierce tiger. He never gets mad, he never leaves his socks on the floor. He smells like the sun. Sorry. Happened again. The women aren't any better. Highly successful, gorgeous (but don't know it). Neither understand how to use birth control but FORTUNATELY they're both fabulous natural mothers- of course. Never a moment post-partum. Never a night when, going on two hours sleep she freaks out at her Ken-Doll husband in the middle of the night- yelling at him to get his sorry- arse out of bed and help her before she burns down their glorious beach house along with their yuppie CD collection, fresh produce, and romantic lighting. Even the baby is perfect. Never fusses. Never poops all over the adorable crib crafted from beachwood by his perfectly toned and tanned father. Never throws a tired-tantrum in the middle of the family photo. \"Isn't it lucky?\" I'd say. The luckiest fabricated family in the friggin' world. But then, I've never been to Martha's Vineyard. Having said that, there was one thing in the book that made me feel something- a mother's love for her baby- THAT felt real. THAT was touching. THAT was devastatingly sweet and sad. Still. It would have been more real and touching if mother and baby had been human. Props to Patterson for attempting to write from a woman's perspective. It just wasn't this woman's. ...more I wish I could give this books \"0\" stars... I really didn't like it, AT ALL. Sadly, I spent the time reading it. I usually enjoy most any book I read read but this one is not my kind of book! Bleh! Predivno! *Nikolas, Suzan i Met. Jedno zauvek.* Oh, mili moj, izgaram da \u010dujem tvoj smeh jo\u0161 jedanput. Bolno \u010deznem da ti pogledam u plave blistave okice. Da ti protrljam mekani obra\u0161\u010di\u0107 svojim obrazom. Oh, dragi moj de\u010da\u010de, nevina\u0161ce moje, moj sine koji zauvek ostaje\u0161 beba. Toliko mi nedostaje\u0161. Ne mogu da se pomirim s mi\u0161lju da nikada ne\u0107e\u0161 saznati kako se ose\u0107am, \u0161to nikada ne\u0107e\u0161 \u010duti koliko te tvoj tata voli. Tako mi nedostaje\u0161, tako mi nedostaje\u0161, mila bebo. Uvek \u0107e\u0161 mi nedostajati. This was the worst book ever! I was so extremely disappointed. I hate those sappy sad cancer books, and this was just like it, only this time with childbirth and heart attacks! :P Terrible. Unless you like those kinds of stories... I only finished it so I could find out why the guy dumped the girl, anything more is a spoiler alert. The secret was a long and tedious read through a woman's diary that she wrote to her baby. Gag. The one redeeming quality was the life lesson of the \"5 balls.\" Basica This was the worst book ever! I was so extremely disappointed. I hate those sappy sad cancer books, and this was just like it, only this time with childbirth and heart attacks! :P Terrible. Unless you like those kinds of stories... I only finished it so I could find out why the guy dumped the girl, anything more is a spoiler alert. The secret was a long and tedious read through a woman's diary that she wrote to her baby. Gag. The one redeeming quality was the life lesson of the \"5 balls.\" Basically we all juggle 5 balls: work, friends, family, health, and integrity. Work is a rubber ball that will always bounce back. Being in education for over 15 years and working since I was 18, I can agree with that. The ball of work does not always bounce straight, where you expect it to go, as high or as low as you want it, but it bounces back never the less. The other 4 balls are made out of glass. They are much more delicate and precious as glass can scratch, crack, break or be shattered. Hence have to leave your ego outside of your job. I was very glad to delete this book off my Kindle. james PAtterson what were you thinking? For me, this book was a complete and total \"Ew.\" ...more In Suzanne's Diary For Nicholas, Katie likes a guy named Matthew who she wants to marry and be with for the rest of her life. For reasons unknown to Katie, Matthew can't seem to commit to her. Matthew leaves Katie a diary to read, a diary which will explain secrets to his past, a diary written by Matthew's ex-wife, Suzanne, to their son Nicholas. As Katie spends her time reading the diary she becomes more aware of Matthews past life. This diary reveals heart breaking secrets to Katie as she reads In Suzanne's Diary For Nicholas, Katie likes a guy named Matthew who she wants to marry and be with for the rest of her life. For reasons unknown to Katie, Matthew can't seem to commit to her. Matthew leaves Katie a diary to read, a diary which will explain secrets to his past, a diary written by Matthew's ex-wife, Suzanne, to their son Nicholas. As Katie spends her time reading the diary she becomes more aware of Matthews past life. This diary reveals heart breaking secrets to Katie as she reads along and re-lives all the tragic incidents that happen. Finally Katie comes to realize why Matthew couldn't commit to her. It is so hard for him and she starts to understand - but is it too late? If they will ever spend the rest of their lives together is all hidden inside the book. ...more And here I thought that LDS fiction was bad. Wow. This book is what happens when an old guy who writes suspense tries to write a book about a thirty-something woman's love story. Wow. So bad. So, so bad. I feel used. Words like: ravishing, french braid, blouse and goof (as in Matt and Katie used to ride the circle line as a goof.) have no place in a book written in the 2000's. Emotional Manipulation at it's highest and most nauseating. The only thing I can think that would come close to rivaling And here I thought that LDS fiction was bad. Wow. This book is what happens when an old guy who writes suspense tries to write a book about a thirty-something woman's love story. Wow. So bad. So, so bad. I feel used. Words like: ravishing, french braid, blouse and goof (as in Matt and Katie used to ride the circle line as a goof.) have no place in a book written in the 2000's. Emotional Manipulation at it's highest and most nauseating. The only thing I can think that would come close to rivaling the horrific snivel of this novel would be if James Patterson and Debbie Macomber co-authored a book. ...more Book for which you are going to cry but you must to read HE DIED!!! :'((((( GUS DIED!!! WHY OH WHY???? :'((( POOR DOGGIE!!!! :(((( SHE SAID YES! SHE SAID YES!!!! OH MY GODS!!! :'))))) --- SHE READS HARRY POTTER , TOO!!!! :DDDDD -- ISN'T IT LUCKY? -- THIS IS WHERE MY REVIEW REALLY REALLY STARTS : :) I LOVE LOVE LOVE THIS BOOK!!!! It's heart breaking, heart replenishing Life changing Perspective changing AND EVERY CHANGE IN LIFE AND HOW YOU LOOK AT IT! I NOW HAVE THE STORY OF THE FIVE BALLS to guide me! :D Though I haven't figured that out yet. I'll get there on the HE DIED!!! :'((((( GUS DIED!!! WHY OH WHY???? :'((( POOR DOGGIE!!!! :(((( SHE SAID YES! SHE SAID YES!!!! OH MY GODS!!! :'))))) --- SHE READS HARRY POTTER , TOO!!!! :DDDDD -- ISN'T IT LUCKY? -- THIS IS WHERE MY REVIEW REALLY REALLY STARTS : :) I LOVE LOVE LOVE THIS BOOK!!!! It's heart breaking, heart replenishing Life changing Perspective changing AND EVERY CHANGE IN LIFE AND HOW YOU LOOK AT IT! I NOW HAVE THE STORY OF THE FIVE BALLS to guide me! :D Though I haven't figured that out yet. I'll get there on the later years of my life. This book actually reminded me of my own story. A story when a very close, dear, sister friend left me without a word. The first few pages reminded me of that part of my life and I just wanted to cry but I held myself together because I was at school and I hate crying with a lot of people around. So, anyway, yeah. Mostly, it was her that I remembered in this book and how I wished the we got back together again. But we didn't--in reality. I have a new-old-new-old (whichever) friendship back but I can't deny the fact that I miss the old times with that best friend of mine who left me. True, ours is not a love story like Katie and Matt, but it can be somehow connected and I can connect it with that because I haven't really been in love :) SO... Suzanne and Nicholas... I CANNOT BELIEVE IT!!!! I THOUGHT, when Matt wrote on the diary... Nicholas... ...would be able to read it. BUT WHAT DID I FIND OUT ON THE MIDDLE OF THE WRITTEN ACCOUNT??? I FOUND THE OPPOSITE AND THAT MADE ME CRY HARDER!!!! YES, I cried. I cry when I read sad, touching, or some passage that reminds me of something that happened in my life. But I DO NOT cry in front of a person. No, I don't do that. I HATE THAT. Especially when I can't control my tears. ANYWAY, this isn't about me. So, never mind :) I just want to add a comment about the ending before I end this. KNEELING...this is totally CUTE!!! I LOVE IT! :D I LOVE THE MEANING! :) I wish a guy like Matt does exist. I wish I'll meet someone like him. OKAY. YOU KNOW MY RULES :) READ THIS TO UNDERSTAND IT. YOU'LL NEVER REGRET IT!!! :D ...more So I picked this book up not intending on reading it at that moment but I opened the first page and then the next and then before I knew I was hooked. I am so glad I grabbed this book off of my shelf and started reading it. An emotional roller coaster for sure. This is a love story between a man, wife, son and a bystander named Katie. Katie is in love with Matt until one day he disappears and she has no idea where he has gone. He leaves behind a diary called Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas. She open So I picked this book up not intending on reading it at that moment but I opened the first page and then the next and then before I knew I was hooked. I am so glad I grabbed this book off of my shelf and started reading it. An emotional roller coaster for sure. This is a love story between a man, wife, son and a bystander named Katie. Katie is in love with Matt until one day he disappears and she has no idea where he has gone. He leaves behind a diary called Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas. She opens the diary takes a plunge into Matt's world that she never knew existed and she fell in love with all the characters and even deeper in love with Matt. I was pleasantly surprised by this book because I read another contemporary by Patterson and did not really like that one. This one was very good IMO and I enjoyed it so much. First of all this was wrote in Diary form for the most part until we come to Katie's part. I was immersed into another side of this love story that made me feel so much. I had read several of the other reviews with people saying how dumb, dry, and boring this story was, but I just can't see that at all. I see a very heart felt story that makes you grab a Kleenex, a story that you wont soon forget, and a story that made my heart fill with so many emotions. I guess emotional, heart felt books are not for everyone. As far as the characters go, I think they are beautiful characters, maybe not the best developed that I have ever read, but I can say that reading them makes you love them. I grew so fond of all of them and wanted to know them, wanted to know more about them. I loved watching Katie go through this diary and feeling those same things she felt at the same time. What can I say about Matt? He is a strong person? Or what about Suzanne or maybe Nicholas, they are beautiful, caring and understanding? I wont say much more about the characters, I will just recommend you read this book and decide what you think about them yourself. Don't let the bad reviews steer you away from this book, because there is truly something special to take from this story. Isn't it lucky? ...more SPOILERS!!! A while back someone suggested that I read a James Patterson book to help me get into writing. The first one I picked up was \"Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas\", thinking that anything by him would do. It was one of the worst mistakes that I ever made. There are just so many issues that I had with this book, I\u2019m amazed that it was published. It seems that Patterson was just set out to insult the intelligence of his readers, hoping that they would see his name and grab up this book, giving SPOILERS!!! A while back someone suggested that I read a James Patterson book to help me get into writing. The first one I picked up was \"Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas\", thinking that anything by him would do. It was one of the worst mistakes that I ever made. There are just so many issues that I had with this book, I\u2019m amazed that it was published. It seems that Patterson was just set out to insult the intelligence of his readers, hoping that they would see his name and grab up this book, giving him his one chance to tell a story based off a tragic life event he experienced first hand. While the story is \u201ctragic\u201d and yes it is a \u201cromance\u201d it\u2019s just poorly written. \"She gripped the carousel horse with her thighs as it went not just up and down, but also around and around.\" Yes, those are the lines you get while reading this book and in fact I noticed that if you broke down the paragraphs and took out just random sentences, you would have no clue as to what was going on. A lot of three word sentences just thrown around made this an easy read for even a seven year old. I think even Harlequin's most romantic author would be ashamed to publish these cloying phrases. The whole discourse of the story is sickeningly predictable. I felt like I was reading a very, very long Hallmark card, even though I think Hallmark wouldn\u2019t publish this either. Sappy, trite, pre-packaged sentiment expand it into a novel, this is a DREADFUL book, predictable and poorly written. It reads like the work of a love struck teenager who writes really bad poetry. The editorial staff must have been on some heavy drugs if they thought this was a work of art. If you love good writing, stay far away from this one. Besides the bad poetry, Patterson name drops all throughout the book. Short and simple, he lacks in the area of imagery and expects his readers to know all these people and places that he\u2019s talking about. Sorry, never been to Martha\u2019s Vineyard, no clue if it\u2019s a beach, city or just tourist attraction. I\u2019m sure that he thought that the references to pop culture sprinkled throughout would make him seem hip but instead came off cheesy and desperate. I mean, every time we went to a new place we were told that we were in \u201cTavern Inn\u201d nothing more, nothing about how it looked, none of the five senses touched. Half of the people he named dropped, I had no clue to who they were. He threw in movies, t.v. shows, actors, singers, books, authors, big companies\u2026it was sad. The characters are flat and improbably perfect. Katie, the pregnant heroine of the story who completely understands everything and loves unconditionally no matter what, is left by the wonderful poet Matt Harrison, who gives her the perfect diary that his perfect, dearly departed wife Suzanne wrote for their much-loved, perfect baby Nicholas, in order to explain why he can\u2019t give his heart to her fully. She is rich and beautiful and tragically wounded, he is rich and beautiful and tragically wounded. One acts upon his grief or anger by doing something hurtful to the one he loves and loves him. So now it\u2019s time to find out why the hurt and anger and how can they find happiness and come to their senses and woo the other back. The situation is totally contrived. Another issue I had was with the style and tone of voice. You go from each character and yet they say the same catch phrases \u201cIsn\u2019t it lucky?\u201d \u201cMat, Suzanne and Nicholas as one\u201d all written in the same voice, all sounding like the same person. This was a book written for their son and yet the mom is constantly with the \u201cMat did this, Mat did that. You should have seen Mat Nicky.\u201d Isn\u2019t Mat his father? Why not say \u201cYour father did this. You should have seen your father Nicky.\u201d What was worst was that every time Mat talked to his wife he asked her questions and made statements using her first name. Never was there \u201cHey do you like this poem? What do you think about the house? I want to go down to the beach.\u201d No, always \u201cHey Suzanne would you like to go to the beach with me Suzanne?\u201d Come on! And what was worst, she talked the same way, and so did Katie, written in exactly the same voice. I also noticed that the tense was off in this book. One second she\u2019s talking about how she loves \u201cNicky Mouse\u201d little toes and the next second she can\u2019t wait to meet him\u2026Confused? So was I. She also knows things that she shouldn\u2019t know, like Mat making plans for her, how Mat thinks and feels even though he\u2019s not said a word about it. And why does she bother to tell about the other guy she was dating and her relationship with him\u2026and the one before him. Let alone the sex details with her husband and just stuff that you wouldn\u2019t tell your child. She talks more about her relationship with her husband then she does about the child\u2026sad. The suspense falls flat, you know what is going to happen as soon as Katie gets the dairy. You have to be slow not to see that there is an issue here, why would someone have a diary that is meant for someone else to read unless both the writer and the recipient didn\u2019t still exist. It ignores all realities of motherhood. Suzanne continues working as a doctor and her husband as a painter, where\u2019s the childcare? She has this heart condition and yet is home with the baby even though she loses consciousness tons of times and can\u2019t seem to use birth control. She\u2019s a doctor, she knew that having another baby would be a risk and yet she doesn\u2019t use birth control and has this \u201cSurprise\u201d preg. She\u2019s a doctor!!! And why leave her at home with the baby after she was on the verge of death so many times?? How many heart patients are there out there who are encouraged to lug a kid around after all she\u2019s been through?. If you think there is the slightest mystery about the ending, there isn't. Well, yes, there is one tiny surprise near the end, but it's a surprise only because the author manipulates the reader into believing that a certain fact is true. Honestly, Patterson must have taken the worst kind of novel-writing workshop ever. It seems as if he went through and checked off everything that would get someone to shed a tear. The careful contrivance shows through on every page and with every step of the plot. While the premise is good, the improbable behavior of the characters is just\u2026well there are so many words but none are good. Matt is overdrawn to the point of nausea, Suzanne cheerfully writes details that she could not have been aware of, shares intimate details, and is cloyingly smothering, and the ending is just plain laughable. I haven't read anything this overwrought and predictable in ages\u2026well, never. It seems that all you have to do in order to get a book out is have a few best sellers, grab up a weak plot, flat characters, forget about your setting and imagery and just drop names and places instead, preach your them by using clich\u00e9 and sappy phrases, switch around your pov like crazy, use the same style and voice for all your perfectly flat characters and of course grab your readers by making one character cry, the other suffer and the other die. All this story did was remind me that anyone can get published. All you have to do is kill off a mother or child\u2026maybe abuse the kid some. In short, we all look at the news and say \u201cOh that\u2019s tragic!\u201d but when it comes to reading a book, you can\u2019t just kill people off and call it a work of art, you have to know how to show the story, not just tell it. ...more one day, less than willowy goddess lauren fidler read this book in under 2 hours and decided that she should no longer read any book involving pregnant heroines. the premise: willowy book editing goddess katie somethingorother loses the love of her life the day or so before she's planning a super big party for him (with the hidden agenda of bestowing upon him a silver rattle and telling him she's knocked up with his bastard offspring). of course, charming handsome handyaroundthehouse everyman po one day, less than willowy goddess lauren fidler read this book in under 2 hours and decided that she should no longer read any book involving pregnant heroines. the premise: willowy book editing goddess katie somethingorother loses the love of her life the day or so before she's planning a super big party for him (with the hidden agenda of bestowing upon him a silver rattle and telling him she's knocked up with his bastard offspring). of course, charming handsome handyaroundthehouse everyman poet matt disappears before she gets a chance to do that - but the man just can't make a clean break and sends her a diary titled \"Suzanne's diary for Nicholas\"...a little nonfiction novella meant to explain why willowy goddess katie keeps waking up in the middle of the night to find poor handymanpoet matt crying. i seriously thought, considering this is james patterson, that he was going to do a knock-off mary higgins clark and make the evil alter ego matt some sort of homicidal massmurdering serial killing sociopath. no such luck. i may have given him two stars for that sort of a plot twist. the novel is split between the diary and katie's POV...it's a lot of weakly self-esteemed natural goddesses with pregnancy hormones to digest (as imagined by james patterson who does murder slightly better than he does nicholas spark-esque ripoffs)and a revelation that did make me (and my lingering pregnancy hormones) consider tearing up a bit. the end is so trite and awful that it quickly dried any tears i previously considered shedding. ...more", "Title": "Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas"},
