{"Comments": "<+++>Fragile Things: Short Fictions and Wonders</+++>The two stars was a compromise. This book is a mixed bag of short stories and poems. In the Harry Potter books, there is a kind of sweet called Bertie Potts Every Flavour Jelly Beans. Sometimes you get something yummy like Raspberry Cream Chocolate or Honey Lemon Lime with a hint of Ginger or Vodka Tonic with Mentholated Cigarette Chaser. Other times you get Snot or Cat's Vomit.<---F> This book was like that</---F>. Unfortunately, this assortment contained more of the Warthog's Spyhillated Rectum or Seal Poo The two stars was a compromise. This book is a mixed bag of short stories and poems. In the Harry Potter books, there is a kind of sweet called Bertie Potts Every Flavour Jelly Beans. Sometimes you get something yummy like Raspberry Cream Chocolate or Honey Lemon Lime with a hint of Ginger or Vodka Tonic with Mentholated Cigarette Chaser. Other times you get Snot or Cat's Vomit. This book was like that. Unfortunately, this assortment contained more of the Warthog's Spyhillated Rectum or Seal Poop flavours than the Strawberry Champagne or Saffron and Sabayon Ice Cream types. Mr Gaiman, please stick to prose and avoid the poetry. And I do think it's unnecessarily mercenary to lump us with jottings of your drafts that didn't quite work. There are some gems here, but far far too few to justify a collection. Next time, could you wait till you have decent set before putting a collection out? ...more \u2019We owe it to each other to tell stories\u2019 For years I\u2019ve heard the name <---A>Neil Gaiman</---A> passed about,<---M> weighted with heavy praise</---M>, and have always promised myself to read him. Earlier this fall, after hearing him speak on NPR, I sat down with a copy of Coraline , and hungrily read it in one sitting. Despite the novel being intended for an audience much greener than I, I couldn\u2019t help but be hypnotized by the charismatic voice and magical delivery and I renewed my promise to return to this author as soo \u2019We owe it to each other to tell stories\u2019 For years I\u2019ve heard the name Neil Gaiman passed about, weighted with heavy praise, and have always promised myself to read him. Earlier this fall, after hearing him speak on NPR, I sat down with a copy of Coraline , and hungrily read it in one sitting. Despite the novel being intended for an audience much greener than I, I couldn\u2019t help but be hypnotized by the charismatic voice and magical delivery and I renewed my promise to return to this author as soon as possible. More recently, although I was happily buried in a pile of Christmas reading, I purchased his second collection of short fictions, Fragile Things , to revisit this infectious voice and break away from heavier reading into his eerie landscapes. Simply put, this collection was some of the most fun I\u2019ve had in a long time. Filled with many of his Locus award winners, and his Hugo winner, this collection brings many of Gaiman\u2019s works, most of them scattered about in various anthologies, together in one binding. All of the signature excellence with which Gaiman has rightly built his widespread fan-base is present to prove that he is equally wonderful with his short game as he is in novel form and to tell stories which will send shivers down the spines of readers of all ages. There is a vigorous charm about the writing. He lures the reader with lush, simple sentences, which are easy on the eyes, but commanding none-the-less. Once he has drawn you in, cozying up with the reader with a bit of background, the efficacious flow of his phrasing pulls the reader along through the lucid visions of his spectral creations at high speeds in an experience more akin to a thrill ride than just typeface on a page. While Gaiman\u2019s writing isn\u2019t extravagant, the sleek simplicity of it makes it effective to captivate the minds of both the young and old alike. I especially enjoyed Gaiman\u2019s way of affecting a sense of a \u2018story within a story\u2019 where he puts near equal emphasis in the context in which the story is told as in the actual tale much like Henry James does in The Turn of the Screw , or Nikolai Gogol does to exemplify the oral tradition of storytelling. This technique is most uniquely present in October in the Chair , which earned the 2003 Locus award for Best Short Story, where the 12 months, each personified in a comical fashion, are seated around a campfire and listen to October tell a chilling tale about a young runaway and his nighttime engagements with the ghost of a dead boy. This helps highlight Gaiman\u2019s pervasive idea of the power stories hold while also allowing him to bring the reader into the story at a safe distance before shocking them. This also allows the author to add a touch of autobiography, as is the case in Closing Time , where he admits that more of the story is ripped from reality than he would like to admit. These stories are just a flat out good time. From aliens to ghost and vampires, Sherlock Holmes and even into the Matrix, these stories will delight and frighten, which brought to mind my childhood of hiding beneath the sheets reading Steven King\u2019s short stories far past bedtime. There is a compelling wit and humor to these tales, many of which reside just on the outskirts of any sense of conclusion, using the classic horror device of allowing the imagination to run wild and fill in the cracks. In stories such as Feeders and Eaters , we never learn the grisly details of exactly why the man has fallen in on himself, but there is enough horrific background to allow for creativity to connect the last few dots. Sometimes the \u2018unsaid\u2019 can be mightier than the \u2018said\u2019, and the emotion of fear overrides the physical object of terror. Gaiman is also a master at the twist, such as the Hugo winning A Study in Emerald , his Sherlock Holmes A Study in Scarlet inspired tale, which he mixed with a shot of H.P. Lovecraft . As the reader reaches the conclusion they will notice, if they are versed in Holmes lore a bit, an alternate reality that goes beyond the sci-fi elements. The most staggering twist is contained in the very short yet very disturbing Other People , which I would label one of the \u2018must reads\u2019 of this collection. A few other points of interest are the short pieces written to accompany a Tori Amos tour book that each reflect a personality from various songs, and a novella dealing with <---C>Shadow</---C>, the lead character fro Gaiman's American Gods . While many of these stories are first rate, this collection does fall into a few pitfalls that comes with the territory of simply rounding up anthologized stories, as there is a sense of unevenness and a fair share of filler. Some of the prose poems also seem to be placed in here just because and do not have the same impact as many of his stories, however Gaiman admits in the introduction that he originally did not intend for any of the poetry to be included. That said, Instructions , a poem that illustrates the clich\u00e9s of fairytales in the manner of laying out ground-rules for what to do should one find themselves in a fairytale, is highly creative and one of my favorite pieces here. There are a few others that bring about a smile, although the stories are the real meat of the collection. A few of the stories can be shrugged off as well, but do not be discouraged as there is an abundance of juicy tales. The introduction itself is just as enjoyable as the rest of the stories; the readers get a glimpse into the author\u2019s creative process as he describes some behind the scenes tidbits of each story. It is always fascinating for me to experience the author beyond the romanticized perception of an author, and here you can see Gaiman as the human being, writing stories in hotels rooms, airports, or in his living room as his children run about. He puts the stories into the context of his own life, which makes them seem all the more personal. Storytelling is of major importance to Neil Gaiman. In a recent NPR interview with Gaiman, he stated that his enjoyment in writing children\u2019s fiction stems from a belief that it is the most influential. This is apparent in The Problem of Susan when Greta says that her interest in children\u2019s fiction is because \u2019they seemed the books that were most important to me. The ones that mattered.\u2019 . Gaiman stated that the books we read in our childhood always reside in our hearts and help shape who we are, and also enjoying fiction at a young age helps ensure we continue to pursue literature throughout our lives. He said that Coraline is one of his favorites since many people come to him with stories of how when they were younger and faced with problems, they would remember how brave Coraline was and attempt to emulate this. He said that he began writing children\u2019s fiction after a visit to the library in search of scary stories aimed at 5 year olds, his daughters age at the time, brought only concerned looks and no books. He set out to rectify this, and the world of books is a better place for it. The Problem of Susan briefly discusses a history of children\u2019s fiction, moving from books where children were just miniature adults to ones that are more \u2018pure\u2019 and \u2018sanctimonious\u2019, and dealt with issues that befall children in the way they perceive and react to them. He shows how that pure, innocent period of growth is essential before they reach the pornography and violence that befalls adulthood. His method of doing so envisions a very different view of the Lion and White Witch from The Chronicles of Narnia , one that won\u2019t soon be forgotten. The poem Locks is another place where Gaiman stresses the beauty of childhood innocence in stories, and the function of storytelling being passed through generations. The importance of storytelling is also a major theme in The Invention of Aladdin , where stories can be a tool in protecting ones own life. Fragile Things is an excellent choice for all readers. It will shock, terrify and even make you laugh across a broad range of stories and poems. I am very glad I picked this up and I will certainly be returning to the twisted mind of Neil Gaiman very soon, I suggest you do as well. He seems to be always eager to tell a story and this is probably the closest thing to climbing up on his knee and hearing him recite one of his magical tales. I hope he has a big enough knee for all of us. 4/5 ...more I love Neil Gaiman. He is brilliant, imaginative, and abso- friggin -lutely weird, and I love him for it. And this book of short stories and prose, Fragile Things , is by far my most favorite compendium of his. Fragile Things is a collection of oddities, retellings, poetry, spin-offs, and queer creations of Neil Gaiman's colorful imagination. Some of the stories have been published elsewhere, like Sunbird and October In The Chair , which were included in his M Is For Magic compilation, and s I love Neil Gaiman. He is brilliant, imaginative, and abso- friggin -lutely weird, and I love him for it. And this book of short stories and prose, Fragile Things , is by far my most favorite compendium of his. Fragile Things is a collection of oddities, retellings, poetry, spin-offs, and queer creations of Neil Gaiman's colorful imagination. Some of the stories have been published elsewhere, like Sunbird and October In The Chair , which were included in his M Is For Magic compilation, and some were published in other authors' works, written specially by Neil Gaiman, upon their request. A series of very short stories was inspired by an album of one of my favorite female indie artists, Tori Amos, who is good friends with Gaiman. There were award-winning stories here, too, such as A Study In Emerald which won the Hugo Award for Best Short Story and Sunbird , which received for its author the Locus Award. The book also included, at the very last part, a novella published two years after American Gods came out, entitled Monarch of the Glen . In the novella , the main character from American Gods , Shadow , finds himself lured into a game with monsters. I had my doubts at first on whether I should read it, considering I have yet to read American Gods and might inadvertently run into spoilers, but threw caution into the wind, anyway. The novella , as it would turn out, would have an entirely separate and distinct plot from American Gods . (<---B>I asked my husband, who has read it, okay.</---B>) I had a difficult time picking a favorite story from Fragile Things , because I loved everything! But I finally whittled it down to five: Harlequin Valentine , a short story based on the Harlequinade pantomime; The Flints of Memory Lane , which gave me the creeps; Other People , because it gave me more of the creeps and some goosebumps, too; Feeders and Eaters , for the sheer weirdness and horror of it, and; The Problem of Susan , which retells, if you will, the story of Susan Pevensie of The Chronicles of Narnia after the series had concluded. If you've read the series, you'll remember that Susan was no longer included in the last books, as she had taken to fancy things and such, and was no longer \u201cfit\u201d to return to Narnia. On the other hand, I couldn't think of any short story or poem that I didn't like. The short story written specially for The Matrix , which Neil completed prior to the screening of the very first Matrix film, was, of course, a bit predictable, as it was made to cater to the plot of the film. Apart from that, however, it was still an interesting read, and I enjoyed that one nonetheless. If I were to use the word \u201dunputdownable\u201d to describe a book, this is the one. No one in the world, I think, has a more vivid and odd imagination like Neil does. Plus, he writes just beautifully: simple words, straightforward language, languid construction. He is the best storyteller there is, period. And I am just itching to read more of his works! Thanks, TINTIN , for my copy! :) Review also posted here . ...more It seems wrong and somewhat sad that my favorite Gaiman book is not one of his many heralded novels, but a collection of short stories. Mind you, Fragile Things is a great collection of short stories! Some of the content herein is much more \"adult\" than a good deal of his other work, which can tend towards the childlike and fanciful. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy the fantastical stuff with its focus on the magic of youth and mystery of the unknown. But I think I prefer his short story work because It seems wrong and somewhat sad that my favorite Gaiman book is not one of his many heralded novels, but a collection of short stories. Mind you, Fragile Things is a great collection of short stories! Some of the content herein is much more \"adult\" than a good deal of his other work, which can tend towards the childlike and fanciful. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy the fantastical stuff with its focus on the magic of youth and mystery of the unknown. But I think I prefer his short story work because it seems more well-crafted and honed to a higher perfection than some of his full length novels, which feel a bit loose at times. In summation, here is my newspaper book review title for this: \"Gaiman's Fragile Things Is Strong Stuff\"....*shakes head*....horrible...horrible. ...more \u201cYou can't do this to me, Neil. The boy went inside the farmhouse and... AND? What the hell, May? For god's sake, what kind of answer is that? Leave the Month finish the story, you...\u201d That's how much I liked this book. It made me a bit violent. I found myself speaking to the characters (talking alone to some pages, from a sane person's point of view). I didn't like all the short stories, for example, \u201cHow do you think it feels?\u201d, \u201cKeepsakes and Treasures\u201d, \u201cThe problem with Susan\u201d\u2013 (view spoiler) \u201cYou can't do this to me, Neil. The boy went inside the farmhouse and... AND? What the hell, May? For god's sake, what kind of answer is that? Leave the Month finish the story, you...\u201d That's how much I liked this book. It made me a bit violent. I found myself speaking to the characters (talking alone to some pages, from a sane person's point of view). I didn't like all the short stories, for example, \u201cHow do you think it feels?\u201d, \u201cKeepsakes and Treasures\u201d, \u201cThe problem with Susan\u201d\u2013 (view spoiler) [it's an unsettling story about Susan's fate and a witch ends up having sex with a lion (?); I haven't read that Lewis book yet and I already know that Susan isn't going to Narnia! (hide spoiler) ] \u2013; but the entire collection has a unique Gaiman style. A funny, weird, original, heartbreaking, twisted, magical, dark and insightful style that leaves you wanting more. He seems to be the kind of writer that can save an average story with just an amazing line that describes the way you might be feeling at that time. And that line starts repeating itself in your head. I admire a person who can say so many things, that can share complex thoughts and mixed emotions with simple words: I may be grim, perhaps, but only just as grim as any man who suffered such affairs. Misfortune, carelessness or pain, what matters is the loss. You\u2019ll see the heartbreak linger in my eyes, and dream of making me forget what came before you walked into the hallway of this house. * In every way that counted, I was dead. Inside somewhere maybe I was screaming and weeping and howling like an animal, but that was another person deep inside, another person who had no access to the lips and face and mouth and head, so on the surface I just shrugged and smile and kept moving. If I could have physically passed away, just let it all go, like that, without doing anything, stepped out of life as easily as walking through a door I would have done. But I was going to sleep at night and waking in the morning, disappointed to be there and resigned to existence. I may not like the whole poem or story, but I take some beautiful lines with me, and that's all I seem to need. Unless we are talking about stories/poems like \"A Study in Emerald\", \"October in the Chair\", \"The Flints of Memory Lane\", \"Instructions\" or \"Other People\". Those are really good. I have to say I don't enjoy horror stories. But his \u201chorror\u201d is like, um, like a delicate, philosophical horror. Almost sweet. I don't know if that even exists, but that is how I see it. Some stories gave me the chills, sure, but at the same time, I felt a wave of sorrow and a feeling of understanding, empathy. Loneliness moves the world, for better or for worse. So, whatever. I don't know why the hell I'm reviewing this because I can't find the right words. I like things to be story-shaped. Reality, however, is not story-shaped, and the eruptions of the odd into our lives are not story-shaped either. They do not end in entirely satisfactory ways. Recounting the strange is like telling one's dreams: one can communicate the events of a dream but not the emotional content, the way that a dream can color one's entire day. Like this book. I'm not used to the contemporary writing style. The newest thing I read was written sixty years ago. I don't know why, honestly. (Okay, I know but I don't want to say it). So, it is a big change for me. I don't usually connect with living writers. Gaiman is a nice exception (most of the times). Feb 09, 14 * Also on my blog . ...more Stories, Neil Gaiman informs in the introduction, are fragile things made up of 26 letters (more if you want to use phonetic symbols), ink and paper. They are illusions created by things that cannot last, but the best stories survive and transform. The stories within this volume are perhaps some of those best stories. This collection contained many of Gaiman's most famous short stories. I want to write three quick reviews of some of the short stories. Including one which I previously read online Stories, Neil Gaiman informs in the introduction, are fragile things made up of 26 letters (more if you want to use phonetic symbols), ink and paper. They are illusions created by things that cannot last, but the best stories survive and transform. The stories within this volume are perhaps some of those best stories. This collection contained many of Gaiman's most famous short stories. I want to write three quick reviews of some of the short stories. Including one which I previously read online and reviewed seperately . A Study in Emerald A re-read of A Study in Emerald proved highly enlightening as I was able to observe and analyse the technique used by Gaiman in creating the story. As previously mentioned his first paragraph verges close to plagiarism in how it replicates the feel of another Sherlock Holmes story A Study in Scarlet . Yet only a foolish person would dare call this a work of plagiarism, rather it is a story which clearly references both Lovecraft and Doyle in a unique manner. (view spoiler) [That twist with having Moriarty and his accomplice be the heroes is fantastic. (hide spoiler) ] It is a work of genius and a very clever short story in all its technical proficiency. Forbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves in the Secret House of the Night of Dread Desire This was a story which I didn't quite understand but I have an idea of what Gaiman was aiming at. (view spoiler) [I think his story was set in a macabre fantasy horror world with the author trying to write 'real life' fiction. Meaning he was actually writing gothic horror. And fantasy to him was writing about our real world. (hide spoiler) ] If what I think is correct then it was a very clever story, speaking about the writer's art and about the connection between horror and reality. It was also a creepy story in the proper way a horror story should be! The Problem of Susan This is one of Neil Gaiman's more famous stories and also a very controversial one. I liked some elements of it, for instance the technical aspect of the writing (view spoiler) [and the hint that the woman being interviewed was Susan. I also liked the suggestion that perhaps Susan was left behind for a purpose at that time in the Narnia books though I doubt I agree. (hide spoiler) ] However what did not work where the sexual undertones and the analysis that Susan was left behind because of her growing sexuality which is what many people have criticised Lewis for. However I think that section of The last Battle personally is meant to be focused around the fact that Susan became focused on other things than Narnia. I think that Lewis merely phrased this concept awkwardly, in a way that makes it easy to see it as a sexist dig at Susan not being able to go to Narnia because she discovered boys and lipstick. Yet if you do a true analysis I think you'll notice that the grown up Lucy does go to Narnia in the end. Surely she would have discovered some kind of adult sexuality? Yet she remained true to Narnia. I also disliked the metaphor with the lion and the witch very much. I think Neil Gaiman's own personal ideology causes him to spite the religious message in the Narnia books and that it was rather apparent in his (I thought it was vulgar) portrayal of the witch and lion. Conclusion On the whole most of the stories worked and the poems additionally added an extra level to this collection. It is certainly something every short story enthusiast and fantasy fan, let alone Neil Gaiman fan will want to read. Gaiman is one of the more versatile modern authors and his work is both bizarre, fascinating, reflective and full of literary reference. His humour shines through in subtle ways, making his work that little bit more charming. On the whole an easy four star rating and a collection to enjoy on any kind of day. ...more I really want to see what's inside Neil Gaiman head !! It must be a very strange place , a place where I doubt would want to be !! These stories are creepy, horrifying , disturbing, shocking and freaked me out , and I loved them , if it wouldn't for a story or two which were way more creepy for my liking - like the one with the man who likes young girls , this particular story was very disturbing to me - I would've gave this collection five stars. This is my second read-through of this book, and it was just as great, and oddly, just as surprising this time around as the last. I don't know why it is, but I just have this image in my mind of Neil Gaiman as a proper author. I don't mean 'proper' to mean that he is officially an author (though he is), or that he does it correctly (though he does), but 'proper' in terms of vocabulary and ideas being more on the... non-vulgar side of things. I have this picture in my head, despite reading his b This is my second read-through of this book, and it was just as great, and oddly, just as surprising this time around as the last. I don't know why it is, but I just have this image in my mind of Neil Gaiman as a proper author. I don't mean 'proper' to mean that he is officially an author (though he is), or that he does it correctly (though he does), but 'proper' in terms of vocabulary and ideas being more on the... non-vulgar side of things. I have this picture in my head, despite reading his books and stories and blog posts and comics, and having seen him live with his wife Amanda Palmer, who seems to revel in vulgarity at times... and none of these things support this idea I have of him. But still it persists. And so when I read the stories in this book, they give me a little thrill, because I don't expect the vulgar and the so-very-adult-ness of some of these stories. Even though, by all accounts, I SHOULD. I'm not easily shocked or offended, but I like that sometimes Neil's writing van cause that little thrill in me. It keeps me on my toes. Doesn't let me get too comfortable in Neil's work, because there's such a huge range of it that you never know which way he'll go next. And I like that. A lot. I don't know if I want to talk about the stories individually, except to say that I don't think there's any that I actively dislike, though I'd have to say that Harlequin Valentine is probably my least favorite. But I do want to say that one thing I love about almost the entire collection is the interpretability of the stories. They all have layers that just work so beautifully together, and you can see them in the way that makes sense to you. The stories aren't surprisingly good, because I expect everything Neil writes to be good, but they are surprising AND good. So many of these stories gave me an interesting perspective on something, and made me a part of the story for a little while. Really excellent short fiction pulls you into the story and doesn't want to let you go. You want to think about it, and examine it, and expand on it... and that's what this collection achieved. This is a fantastic collection, and if you can get this on audio, I highly recommend it. Of course, Neil Gaiman could read a Chinese take-out menu and I'll fall all over myself gushing about how brilliantly he read it. So, you know, listen to it. You won't be sorry. ...more I have not read Neil Gaiman's novels but I've heard good things about them. This collection is obviously not a good place to start reading his work. First off, the intro was irritating. The self-satisfied aren't-I-wonderful? name dropping tone was kind of overbearing, and probably put me in an extra-critical mood. The short story is unforgiving; you don't have time for slow bits, or parts that sound like you've read them already somewhere before. And paying homage is tricky too--it can't be mere I have not read Neil Gaiman's novels but I've heard good things about them. This collection is obviously not a good place to start reading his work. First off, the intro was irritating. The self-satisfied aren't-I-wonderful? name dropping tone was kind of overbearing, and probably put me in an extra-critical mood. The short story is unforgiving; you don't have time for slow bits, or parts that sound like you've read them already somewhere before. And paying homage is tricky too--it can't be merely a lesser or different version of the original concept. It needs to have its own substance, its own reason for being. Gaiman seems to admire science fiction, horror, and fantasy, but his attempts to emulate them failed to engage me. Maybe the real world has made me too cynical or jaded, but what is meant to be scary or sinister seems here to be instead pathetic and old. What should be mysterious is merely another plot for a reality TV show. The writing itself is not that good, and uses an awful lot of cliches, in a kind of casual, isn't this amusing? way. If Gaiman is trying to parody pop culture, it falls flat for me. It's just not different or new or clever enough. Despite my overall disappointment, there were some things I liked, especially the science fictiony \"Goliath\" (inspired by the Matrix movies) and \"How to Talk to Girls at Parties\". The American Gods novella, \"Monarch of the Glen\", also had some good parts, which leads me to believe that the novels really must be far better. The poetry did not appeal to me, except for \"Instructions\". I know publishers like to cash in on popular authors, but if, like me, this is the first Gaiman you pick up, it's doubtful it would make you want to read more. ...more Wow, I am crabby. I'm in a punching kittens/kicking puppies place right now, have been for awhile. I think this current state of being is blocking my ability to find enjoyment in things I typically find delightful. This book of collected Gaiman stories, for example. I pressed \"Play\", he started reading, I went, \"Ahhhhhhh. Bliss,\" and then I got bored. I made it all the way to the last disc and then kind of fast-forwarded to the end, skipping giant parts, leaving huge swaths of un-listened-to prose be Wow, I am crabby. I'm in a punching kittens/kicking puppies place right now, have been for awhile. I think this current state of being is blocking my ability to find enjoyment in things I typically find delightful. This book of collected Gaiman stories, for example. I pressed \"Play\", he started reading, I went, \"Ahhhhhhh. Bliss,\" and then I got bored. I made it all the way to the last disc and then kind of fast-forwarded to the end, skipping giant parts, leaving huge swaths of un-listened-to prose behind me. It just didn't scratch the itch I'd expected to have relieved, which is tragic (for me) Don't worry, I'm not losing the 1/4 soul I own (my mother told me my siblings and I share one soul between us because there aren't enough souls to go around anymore, due to our living too long and the lower infant mortality rate, etc. Damn you, medical technology, messing with the supply and demand of souls), it's just bruised right now and I need a breather. I may try this again another day. Maybe not, though; I'd already read/heard/seen about half the stories anyhow so I'm not sure that I really need to go through it all again. Man. I am so sad for myself. ...more The Mapmaker \u2013 originally written for American Gods, this short story is a cautionary tale about disregarding the needs of others while chasing ones desires and chasing immortality by keeping records a.k.a that map (3 stars) A Study in Emerald \u2013 goodreads.com/review/show/1321098517 (3 stars) The Fairy Reel \u2013 a short lyric poem about the foolishness of not risking your heart (3 stars) October in the Chair \u2013 runaway boy finds a ghost (4 stars) The Hidden Chamber \u2013 gothic poem about Bluebeard (3 stars) The Mapmaker \u2013 originally written for American Gods, this short story is a cautionary tale about disregarding the needs of others while chasing ones desires and chasing immortality by keeping records a.k.a that map (3 stars) A Study in Emerald \u2013 goodreads.com/review/show/1321098517 (3 stars) The Fairy Reel \u2013 a short lyric poem about the foolishness of not risking your heart (3 stars) October in the Chair \u2013 runaway boy finds a ghost (4 stars) The Hidden Chamber \u2013 gothic poem about Bluebeard (3 stars) Forbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves in the Secret House of the Night of Dread Desire \u2013 Gaiman makes fun of the kind of reader I was at 14. I don't take offense, it's a good story (4 stars) The Flints of Memory Lane \u2013 a real life ghost story has no resolution (view spoiler) [ I'm not happy that a Romani woman is again presented as someone people should be afraid of. There are too many stories like that (hide spoiler) ] (3 stars) Closing Time \u2013 ghost stories shared by friends in a pub (3 stars) Going Wodwo \u2013 a poem about a wild man in the woods; I need to read Ted Hughes (3 stars) Bitter Grounds \u2013 odd story about loss, love, carelessness, voodoo, sex, ghosts, and more (4 stars) Other People \u2013 the terror of purgatory is within himself (3 stars) Keepsakes and Treasures: A Love Story \u2013 the second in command of a criminal boss is tasked with finding a lover for his boss (4 stars) Good Boys Deserve Favors \u2013 inspired by a statue by Lisa Snellings-Clark of a man holding a double bass (3 stars) The Facts in the Case of the Departure of Miss Finch \u2013 inspired by a painting by Frank Frazetta of a savage woman flanked by tigers. I like how it started by telling us the ending in which three writers try to decide what to do with a logically unexplainable situation and worrying that no one would believe them because of their profession. A circus story. (4 stars) Strange Little Girls \u2013 twelve very short stories to accompany Tori Amos's CD Strange Little Girls (3 stars) Harlequin Valentine \u2013 trickster Harlequin woos an unusual Columbine... or maybe not (4 stars) Locks \u2013 a conversational poem editing the tale of Goldilocks (3 stars) The Problem of Susan \u2013 this story was written in response to the character Susan in Narnia and also how children's fiction came to be. I like how human professor Hastings is when she talks about tragedy and how is clashes with Brenda's insistence in believing that the author has moral authority in the world he created. I loved how Mary Poppins was introduced into the story. (4 stars) Instructions \u2013 a poem giving instructions about what to do when you find yourself in a fairy tale (3 stars) How Do You Think It Feels? \u2013 story inspired by gargoyles and heartbreak (4 stars) My Life \u2013 monologue about an odd life (3 stars) Fifteen Painted Cards from a Vampire Tarot \u2013 vampire story (3 stars) Feeders and Eaters \u2013 two old acquaintances are reunited and one of them is so dramatically altered. This is the story about what happened to him. Scary, very scary! (3 stars) Diseasemaker's Croup \u2013 an interesting take on hypochondriacs (3 stars) In the End \u2013 imagined as the very last book of the Bible; the last phrase of this story really stuck with me (4 stars) Goliath \u2013 set in the Matrix universe and included with The Matrix Comics Vol. 1 (4 stars) Pages from a Journal Found in a Shoebox Left in a Greyhound Bus Somewhere Between Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Louisville, Kentucky \u2013 written for the album Scarlet's Walk, by Tori Amos (3 stars) How to Talk to Girls at Parties - goodreads.com/review/show/907208644?b... (3 stars) The Day the Saucers Came - poem describing me waiting for the phone to ring (4 stars) Sunbird \u2013 a club of Epicureans are trying to find a new culinary challenge by going to Cairo to eat a phoenix (3 stars) Inventing Aladdin \u2013 a poem depicting the invention of stories, in this case, Aladdin by Scheherazade (3 stars) The Monarch of the Glen \u2013 a novella-length sequel to Gaiman's novel American Gods inspired by Beowulf and set in remote areas of Scotland (3 stars) ...more Neil Gaiman is amazing and this collection is proof. There are some stories in here that are so good, that I wanted to immediately go back and read them again as soon as I finished. For example: \"A Study in Emerald\" \"October in the Chair\" \"Other People\" \"Bitter Grounds\" \"Keepsakes and Treasures\" \"Harlequin Valentine\" \"Sunbird\" and \"Monarch of the Glen.\" The rest of the stories all have something interesting to say as well, and each is written in Gaiman's unique style. I even liked some of the poems i Neil Gaiman is amazing and this collection is proof. There are some stories in here that are so good, that I wanted to immediately go back and read them again as soon as I finished. For example: \"A Study in Emerald\" \"October in the Chair\" \"Other People\" \"Bitter Grounds\" \"Keepsakes and Treasures\" \"Harlequin Valentine\" \"Sunbird\" and \"Monarch of the Glen.\" The rest of the stories all have something interesting to say as well, and each is written in Gaiman's unique style. I even liked some of the poems included, though this was the weakest part of the collection. I guess you could say I loved this. ...more I finished \"Fragile Things\" by Neil Gaiman while I was waiting for the anesthesiologist at UCLA Medical Center. Two days later, while visiting me in the hospital, my daughter announced that she \"stole\" the book from me. So, I don't have it to refer back to while doing this review. For me, the highlight of this collection of short stories and poems was the novella \"Monarch of the Glen\" that featured Shadow from \"American Gods\" re-interpreting the Beowulf legend. It was extremely good. I thought t I finished \"Fragile Things\" by Neil Gaiman while I was waiting for the anesthesiologist at UCLA Medical Center. Two days later, while visiting me in the hospital, my daughter announced that she \"stole\" the book from me. So, I don't have it to refer back to while doing this review. For me, the highlight of this collection of short stories and poems was the novella \"Monarch of the Glen\" that featured Shadow from \"American Gods\" re-interpreting the Beowulf legend. It was extremely good. I thought the poetry throughout the collection was very good too. The stories were kind of hit or miss. Right now, I really can't remember any except \"How to Talk to Girls at Parties\" which is about a socially inept young man from a boys' school who gets dragged to a party by his best friend and they end up at the wrong party. Let's just say that he learns to talk to girls, but they're the wrong kind of girls. All in all, I think \"Fragile Things\" is a good choice if you don't really have the attention span to devote to a novel at a given time and you just want some light reading that can be read in short spurts. ...more 6.0 stars. On my list of All Time Favorite books. Chilling, funny, scary, sad, imaginitive, original, disturbing AND ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT!!!! Unfortunately, I picked up The Girl Who Circumnavigated Fairyland in a Ship of Her Own Making in the middle of reading this collection, and it threw Gaiman's shortcomings and my reactions into sharp relief. Gaiman's clever, no doubt. But this is a mostly almost-horror collection of short story ideas rendered in a not particularly clever way, and I often had the feeling I was reading bits and pieces of autobiography tucked into larger tales. Luckily, a pleasant side effect was a coveted spot on R Unfortunately, I picked up The Girl Who Circumnavigated Fairyland in a Ship of Her Own Making in the middle of reading this collection, and it threw Gaiman's shortcomings and my reactions into sharp relief. Gaiman's clever, no doubt. But this is a mostly almost-horror collection of short story ideas rendered in a not particularly clever way, and I often had the feeling I was reading bits and pieces of autobiography tucked into larger tales. Luckily, a pleasant side effect was a coveted spot on Richard's RaR-TaG's list ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). In the spirit of mild self-immolation, I plowed my way through in bits and pieces over perhaps two weeks--okay, now it's more like four--never able to take more than a story or two at a time. Here's what I think: Gaiman is successful because he is popular and slightly pushes boundaries in a currently fashionable, ie. noir way. Occasionally he does lovely things with words and had fabulous ideas, and I hear he's a very nice guy. However, for me, his writing is very uneven, and feels like it would benefit from longer incubation, and perhaps closer affinity with whatever genre he prefers. I'm not a horror fan, but so many of his short stories seem to delight in twists, and I'm not just referring to the surprise ending. 'A Study in Emerald' is perhaps one of the most enjoyable stories, a riff on Sherlock Holmes solving a crime for the alien royalty, told in traditional Doyle style. 'October in the Chair' has an interesting concept at it's base and ends up being a story within a story, the source of The Graveyard Book. The inner story was enjoyable, but the outer felt unfinished, although I enjoyed the personification of the months. 'The Forbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves...' was a little bit amusing, but seems a tad overwrought and overthought. It has a facetious angle that benefits from a reader's knowledge of literature. 'The Flints of Memory Lane' is a germ of an idea that would benefit from grafting into a larger tale. I do like the line, \"I like things to be story-shaped.\" Perhaps it should have been merged into 'Closing Time,' another story embedded within a story as patrons at a private club share ghost stories. 'Bitter Grounds' is a traveler looking for another life, and finds one as an anthropologist who studies zombies. It was a kind of 'meh' story, and felt like it was trying hard to be portentous and scary, but wasn't. I like the first paragraph and the phrase, \"In every way that counted, I was dead\"--a fantastic opening line. 'Other People' is a short-short I'm sure I've read before, perhaps in a mythology book; the idea feels like a chance to explore the concept of pain and hell more than anything else. 'Keepsakes and Treasures' has nothing worth keeping, and is twisted and unpleasant on a number of levels. The plot surrounds the development of a murderer as he finds employment under an obscenely wealthy man, Mr. Alice. It's one of the stories where none of the characters are likeable or redeemable. 'Good Boys Deserve Favors' (title taken from a mnenonic for learning music) is an ode to a bass that I presume the author played as a young boy, and is a little too short to feel quite as mystical as it wants to be. 'The Facts in the Case of the Departure of Miss Finch' reminds me far too much of The Night Circus , and not in a way that benefits the short story. Unfortunately, it is a dark and twisted circus, and even the dreams have sharp edges. 'Strange Little Girls' would benefit from being read while listening to Tori Amos, but frankly, I'd rather not. I happen to own more than one Tori album, but she can get haunting and mournful quite fast, and I'd rather not spend the rest of the day depressed. 'Harlequin Valentine' was one of the few I rather enjoyed, an unexpected metamorphosis coming to a stalking puppet. 'The Problem of Susan' is better left unread if one wants to have any positive re-reads of The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe ; although I found the Susan story an interesting idea, Gaiman manages to twist it up with a kinky sexual element that benefits no one. 'How Do You Think it Feels?' is a modern adultery tale. Very little seems special to me about it, and the angle of haunting is... meh. Not scary, not really thought provoking, not really interesting. 'Fifteen Painted Cards...from a Tarot' remains me in a painful way of a story idea I once had in college. Thankfully, it never escaped past my best friend; if only the same had happened here. 'Feeders and Eaters' was actually horrific, in a 'Tell-Tale Heart' kind of way. 'Diseasemaker's Croup' was mildly interesting, but not a fitting read for a hypocondriac, and 'Goliath' just missed me entirely. 'Pages from a Journal' was a bit of a yawn. 'How to Talk to Girls' had an interesting kernel of an idea, and a nice turn of phrase or three, especially when the narrator meets a girl who introduces herself as a poem. 'Sunbird' was an interesting twist on the firebird and the Epicurean adventurers, but I thought it dragged on a little too long. Again, I had the oddest feeling I had read the characters' dialogue before. It felt a little Zelazny, spare and self-consciously oblique. For me, by far the most enjoyable was 'Monarch of the Glen,' in which the American Gods 's character, Shadow, is visiting Scotland. Two characters from an earlier short make an appearance here, and it is Mr. Alice and Mr. Smith. I enjoyed the way local mythology got weaved in on a number of different levels. Scattered through the book are a number of poems, all of which I am completely not qualified to give an opinion on, and none of which really spoke to me. Mission of browsing a Gaiman body of work accomplished, and self-flagellation accomplished for the week. Hurrah! ...more As with previous collections of short pieces by Gaiman, I found this extremely variable in quality: Anything referred to as \"poetry\" is execrable, as are all the \"stories\" that are extremely short and fail to follow any normal narrative structure. On the other hand, the pieces that follow some kind of conventional method are all at least OK and in some cases delightful. Stand-out entries are A Study in Emerald and How to Talk to Girls at Parties. Please note that I gave this 3.5 stars. I rounded it up to 4 stars on Goodreads. So all in all definitely a mixed bag I am sad to say. I have loved everything else that I have read of Neil Gaiman's though I did only find Good Omens to be okay/good and have no intention of re-reading it. I have already read \"Coraline\" and \"The Ocean at the End of the Lane\" twice this year. \"A Study in Emerald\" (5 stars)- a Sherlock Holmes story that is not a Sherlock Holmes story. I know that makes no sense, but y Please note that I gave this 3.5 stars. I rounded it up to 4 stars on Goodreads. So all in all definitely a mixed bag I am sad to say. I have loved everything else that I have read of Neil Gaiman's though I did only find Good Omens to be okay/good and have no intention of re-reading it. I have already read \"Coraline\" and \"The Ocean at the End of the Lane\" twice this year. \"A Study in Emerald\" (5 stars)- a Sherlock Holmes story that is not a Sherlock Holmes story. I know that makes no sense, but you will get that when you read the whole story. I really did enjoy this one especially about a darker version of the heroes we know and love. \"The Fairy Reel\" (4.5 stars)- I liked the poem and it did have me imagining a young man out in the woods calling to a fairy. \"October in the Chair\" (5 stars)-This was a great story involving the months as we know them coming to life and telling stories. \"The Hidden Chamber\" (3 stars)- I think I just dislike poems. I recall from Stephen King's latest he had some in there and I just hard cringed at them. \"Forbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves of the Secret House of the Night of Dread Desire\" (3 stars)- I still have absolutely no idea what int he world was going on. We have a man writing a ghost story and oh yeah he may live in a haunted house. And people are not who they appear to be. And things just end on no explanation. \"The Flints of Memory Lane\" (4 stars)- Just a short story about a young man remembering the time he came across something evil. \"Closing Time\" (4.5 stars)- This story was a little weird, but in the end I liked it well enough. I think that the problem was the reveal just happens and I sat there scratching my head. So I don't know what the man in the story met as a young boy. \"Going Wodwo\" (1 star) -Another poem. At least it was only a page and a half. \"Bitter Grounds\" (2 stars)-This story seemed endless and nonsensical. I am still trying to figure out what happened to the anthropology professor so maybe that's why I could not get into this story. \"Other People\" (3 stars) - I was the least surprised person at the end of this short story. \"Keepsakes and Treasures\" (1 star)- I know that there are evil people in the world, but this whole story was repulsive as hell. I found it hard to read and hope that Mr. Alice and Mr. Smith show up again and something terrible happens to them both. \"Good Boys Deserve Favors\" (2 stars)- An okay story. I just didn't get the point of it. It stuck out a bit in this collection to me. \"The Facts in the Case of the Departure of Miss Finch\" (1 star)- This story was so odd. I don't even know what I was supposed to take away from it. Miss Finch sucks. But so do the other people in this story. \"Strange Little Girls\" (2 stars)- Just seemed to be listing different attributes certain women take on. I don't know. I didn't enjoy it. \"Harlequin Valentine\" (2 stars) - Meh. \"Locks\" (1 star) -Another poem. \"The Problem of Susan\" (5 stars)- Disturbing as anything, but it does give a different perspective as what became of Susan Pevensie and why she turned her back on all things Narnia. I do want to high five Mr. Gaiman for this one. It has never sat right for me that Susan was left behind to never enter Narnia because of some b.s. reasons. \"Instructions\" (1 star)- Another poem. \"How Do You Think It Feels?\" (3 stars)- I went back and forth on this one because I thought the main character was a jerk. And it seems in the end maybe he imagined things about a former lover. Who knows. \"My Life\" (1 star)- Another poem. \"Fifteen Painted Cards from a Vampire Tarot\" (1 star)- No. I just read that thing twice and just rolled my eyes. \"Feeders and Eaters\" (3 stars)- Another weird story. Why did the character of Eddie even get into the arrangement that he did. There were so many questions I had. I think the ending was supposed to shock, but I was left with a lot of questions. \"Diseasemaker's Croup\" (.5 star) - My eyes glazed over so I can't tell you what this was about. I tried to re-read it for the final review and my brain shut that down so quickly it was unreal. So that's all I got. I could not stand to read this past two paragraphs. \"In the End\" (1.5 stars)- Barely counts as a short story about the Garden of Eden. \"Goliath\" (4 stars)- Sad story from beginning to end. Now of course I am wondering what was real and what was not based on how the story went. \"Pages from a Journal Found in a Shoebox Left in a Greyhound Bus Somewhere Between Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Louisville, Kentucky\" (3.5 stars)-It was okay. I just didn't get into this story much. \"How to Talk to Girls at Parties\" (3 stars)-Very weird. I really didn't get into it at all. \"The Day the Saucers Came\" (4 stars)- I did like this long winding story where it comes out that sitting around and waiting for someone to call you is pretty much never the answer. \"Sunbird\" (4 stars)- I liked the whole thing about this elusive eating club getting their just desserts. \"Inventing Aladdin\" (3 stars)- Another poem taking a look at Scheherazade. This was one of the few poems in the collection that I enjoyed. \"The Monarch of the Glen\" (5 stars) -This is American Gods #1.5 and I will say that if I had gotten this as a stand alone novella I would have been happy. We get to revisit Shadow and see how he is faring. He comes across some things that should not be real and also the characters Mr. Alice and Mr. Smith from a previous story in this collection. ...more 4.5 stars, really. What a delightful collection of Gaiman's short stories! I was very impressed, liking this even better than I expected. It very nearly got a full 5-stars, but I honestly have a hard time giving that rating to a collection of short stories. They have to really 'wow' me for that. Most of the time the stories, being short, don't really capture the full suspension of belief that's required to become fully absorbed and lost. The more lost I get, the more big stars it'll get. That said 4.5 stars, really. What a delightful collection of Gaiman's short stories! I was very impressed, liking this even better than I expected. It very nearly got a full 5-stars, but I honestly have a hard time giving that rating to a collection of short stories. They have to really 'wow' me for that. Most of the time the stories, being short, don't really capture the full suspension of belief that's required to become fully absorbed and lost. The more lost I get, the more big stars it'll get. That said, this is still an excellent work. I had some hesitation, not to read it but certainly in prioritizing it, after I'd read Smoke and Mirrors a couple of years ago. I liked that collection, but it didn't grab me. Certainly not like I was grabbed by American Gods , Neverwhere , or the Preludes and Nocturnes (Sandman) series. But this one certainly did the trick and belongs in the Gaiman canon with those other heavy hitters. The poetry and other short miscellanies within this book were interesting, and some of them actually made sense (unlike poetry in general which usually comes off to me as fluff). They added a nice interlude between the stories, the meat of the matter. And those are what makes this a gem. \"Monarch of the Glen\" is a novella which serves as a sequel to American Gods . Here we get to see a little bit of how Shadow is carrying on after the events of that novel. This was a nice teaser, making me want a new American Gods novel now. C'mon, Neil. Everybody wants you to write it. \"The Facts in the Case of the Departure of Miss Finch\" is wonderful. Sinister and mysterious and weird. \"The Problem of Susan\" addresses some concerns with the Narnia series. \"A Study in Emerald\" is just wicked and delightful. \"Goliath\" is a nice surprise and very weirdly well done. \"October in the Chair\" has wonderful characterization and keeps the reader on the edge of his/her chair. \"Bitter Grounds\", \"How to Talk to Girls at Parties\", \"Keepsakes and Treasures\", and \"Harlequin Valentine\" were all favorites too. Though there really wasn't a bad one in the lot. Yes, it's definitely time for a new American Gods novel, and another story collection while you're at it, Mr. Gaiman. ...more I really enjoyed this collection of stories. I listened to the audiobook version read by the author himself, which I think added quite a bit to the experience. It's been my experience that authors who read their own stories as audiobooks are generally not the best. While it's true that they know their characters and their stories, many of them just don't have the voice or talent for oral storytelling. That's not to say that the author isn't a storyteller - obviously they are, often they just sho I really enjoyed this collection of stories. I listened to the audiobook version read by the author himself, which I think added quite a bit to the experience. It's been my experience that authors who read their own stories as audiobooks are generally not the best. While it's true that they know their characters and their stories, many of them just don't have the voice or talent for oral storytelling. That's not to say that the author isn't a storyteller - obviously they are, often they just shouldn't do it orally. Neil Gaiman, thankfully, is a natural oral storyteller. He brings the story and the characters to life, and the listener forgets that they are listening to something that was once written because it feels so naturally spoken -- like the story is just flowing through him to us. Many of these stories took me by surprise. I don't think of Gaiman as a YA author, but even so, I didn't expect the themes and details of the stories in this collection to be so jaded or brutal. Gaiman doesn't make these things the focus, but rather adds them in an almost nonchalant way that has more of an impact because it's NOT the focus. I also really enjoy Gaiman's perspective and unique way of seeing the world and everything in it. I like his ability to effortlessly maneuver his readers right into the position we need to be in for maximum effect, and when we get there, he flips everything, so we're left wondering just what happened and how we got where we are when obviously we were just on our way to somewhere else. I'm not much for poetry, and I didn't really get much out of the poems that were included here, so I couldn't give this one a 5 star rating, but aside from that, I loved this collection. It's a keeper. ...more Algunos relatos merecen mucho la pena, como la continuaci\u00f3n de American Gods o el primer borrador de The Graveyard Book. Otros te los puedes saltar tranquilamente. La verdadera joya es la introducci\u00f3n en la que Gaiman va explicando cada relato y muestra un poco su forma de trabajar. I first read Fragile Things back in my first year of university, after which I promptly lent it to a friend, who gave it back to me three or four years later\u2014as can sometimes happen when I lend out books. I\u2019ve been meaning to re-read it for a while so I can write a review. Then Neil Gaiman\u2019s newest collection, Trigger Warning came out. So when I bought that, I also picked up his first collection, Smoke and Mirrors . I thought I could read all three anthologies in publication order and enjoy the p I first read Fragile Things back in my first year of university, after which I promptly lent it to a friend, who gave it back to me three or four years later\u2014as can sometimes happen when I lend out books. I\u2019ve been meaning to re-read it for a while so I can write a review. Then Neil Gaiman\u2019s newest collection, Trigger Warning came out. So when I bought that, I also picked up his first collection, Smoke and Mirrors . I thought I could read all three anthologies in publication order and enjoy the progression. Well, I kind of screwed that up. I totally forgot I bought Smoke and Mirrors . So when I wanted a change of pace, I took Fragile Things off my shelf, intending to knock it back so I could get to Trigger Warning . Oops. Looks like I\u2019m reading all the things out of order! And this doesn\u2019t matter, I know, except to me\u2014which probably makes it all the worse. Gaiman is one of my favourite writers. I like his ability to create characters through broad strokes that seem to shift and change in a different light: both American Gods and The Ocean at the End of the Lane feature interesting protagonists who gradually undergo existential crises as the story unfolds. Yet I can\u2019t say that I enjoyed Fragile Things that much. Many of the stories in here are clever; a few are even brilliant, and some certainly made me smile. But as I say every time I come to review a short story collection, this is just not the form for me. I love me my novels, and that\u2019s just a big fat bias on my part. The star of this book, if there is one, has to be the novella at the end, The Monarch of the Glen . Anyone who wants to know what happens to Shadow following on from American Gods needs to read this. It\u2019s very much in the same vein as the novel: Gaiman shines a light into the liminal space of fantasy in our world\u2014what we might, if we\u2019re feeling snobbish, call magical realism, although I don\u2019t think that\u2019s quite right either. This is a universe where stories have power and a life of their own. I also remembered \u201cThe Problem of Susan\u201d from my first reading all those years ago, and I was happy to revisit it. Gaiman combines two intriguing notions. As the title implies, he addresses this idea that Susan wasn\u2019t allowed back into Narnia because she had grown too old. That alone could have made for a great story, but Gaiman takes it one step further, introducing strange dreams that portray Aslan and the White Witch as conspirators and lovers rather than enemies. The psychosexuality of these dreams highlights the comments that Susan\u2019s ejection from Narnia is related to original sin and the idea that as a woman, rather than a girl, she is no longer pure enough to enter. One aspect of Gaiman\u2019s writing both sublime and frustrating is his unwillingness to spell everything out. He likes to implicate, and hint, and foreshadow. \u201cHow to Talk to Girls at Parties\u201d is an example of this at its most sublime. What\u2019s actually going on here sneaks up on you, but as you start to realize the truth before the narrator, this dramatic irony becomes the driving force for the rest of the story. On the other hand, something like \u201cForbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves in the Secret House of the Night of Dread Desire\u201d frustrates me, because I feel like I\u2019m almost-but-not-quite getting it. I\u2019d be remiss if I didn\u2019t talk about how the stories (and poems) within Fragile Things are often experimental or unusual in structure. Gaiman explains the provenance of many of these stories in the introduction. Some come from song lyrics, or accompany albums or other art pieces; most were written on demand for one anthology or event or another. The sheer diversity of narrative techniques and styles and literary devices within this volume is dazzling and marvellous. It\u2019s a nice way to dip back into the mind of Neil Gaiman, though I think I\u2019d prefer re-reading any of his novels instead. I wouldn\u2019t recommend this as someone\u2019s first Gaiman work\u2014again, literally any of his novels is a great introduction, or maybe Sandman for the graphically inclined. If, unlike me, however, you crave the shorter fiction, this is a curated smorgasboard of delectable items. I kind of picked it over, and there was a little bit to like, but not quite enough to fill me. ...more Three stars for this one because I really liked some of the stories, I really disliked others, and while the prose is well-written, I just don't think Gaiman is a poet. I'd rather not dwell on the negatives, so briefly, here are the stories I didn't like: \"Other People\" and \"The Problem of Susan.\" \"Other People\" is a sickening description of one man's hell--literally hell, as in the afterlife. Of course, a description of hell should be sickening and disturbing, but that doesn't mean I have to lik Three stars for this one because I really liked some of the stories, I really disliked others, and while the prose is well-written, I just don't think Gaiman is a poet. I'd rather not dwell on the negatives, so briefly, here are the stories I didn't like: \"Other People\" and \"The Problem of Susan.\" \"Other People\" is a sickening description of one man's hell--literally hell, as in the afterlife. Of course, a description of hell should be sickening and disturbing, but that doesn't mean I have to like reading it. \"The Problem of Susan\" deals with an issue that disturbed many at a young age: the fact that Susan from the Chronicles of Narnia doesn't get to go \"further up and further in\" with the rest of her family and friends at the end of the series. I expected to like this story, since I'm a huge Lewis fan and was always upset by Susan's fortune. I looked forward to reading Gaiman's explanation. But is tale is bleak, in my view, and the dream sequence in which Aslan and the White Witch have sex is disgusting. (I'm very protective of Aslan's honor.) What I loved: \"A Study in Emerald,\" \"The Facts in the Case of the Departure of Miss Finch,\" \"Sunbird,\" and \"Monarch of the Glen.\" \"A Study in Emerald\" is Gaiman's go at combining H.P. Lovecraft with the world of Sherlock Holmes. And he succeeds! This is a clever, twisty tale, full of fun allusions. \"The Facts in the Case of the Departure of Miss Finch\" easily wins my favor as it concerns a bizarre underground circus that grants the impossible wish of one audience member and then disappears. Gaiman walks us through the strange rooms in which the circus acts are performed, and this allows the reader the same sense of disconcerting wonderment as the circus spectators. In \"Sunbird,\" a group of unlikely epicureans realizes there's nothing new to eat under the sun, except the rare and imaginary Egyptian Sunbird. So they travel to Egypt to catch, cook, and eat the Sunbird in \"the traditional way,\" which apparently involves lots of fragrant woods, spices, and a bottle of beer. \"Sunbird\" also gets an A+ for containing the most delightful name I've heard in a long time: Zebediah T. Crawcrustle. I think I could just go around saying \"Crawcrustle\" for hours and be perfectly happy. Finally, \"Monarch of the Glen\" is the continuing story of Shadow, the hero of American Gods. It's a satisfying modernization of Beowulf, which I just re-read recently, and so I enjoyed this short all the more. Besides, it's always a pleasure to revisit a character you know and love. Fragile Things includes a handful of poems, eight in all, I think. They are a storyteller's poems, rather than a poet's poems. \"Inventing Aladdin\" has a real poetry moment that gave me a little buzz. The other poems are entertaining and certainly have something to say, but the focus is on the idea rather than the words. And poetry needs to be as much about the words as the ideas. ...more Uneven collection of prose & poetry; a couple of the short stories were excellent, The rest was a bit of a muddle, with no satisfying resolutions, and that surprised me. I know this author has a great following and I ordinarily love \"weird\" as much as the next person, but perhaps I simply don't \"get\" him. Disappointing. Di\u011fer #neilgaiman kitaplar\u0131na nazaran bence \u00e7ok ama \u00e7ok iyi de\u011fildi .\u0130\u00e7inde \u00f6d\u00fcll\u00fc \u00f6yk\u00fclerde var, ama \u015fiirleri cidden m\u00fckemmeldi .Size tavsiyem bence b\u00fct\u00fcn #gaiman kitaplar\u0131n\u0131 okuduktan sonra bunu okuyun. \u015eimdi teker teker hikayelere ka\u00e7 puan verdi\u011fimi s\u00f6yleyece\u011fim; \u2022Z\u00fcmr\u00fct Dosya 3* \u2022Peri Dans\u0131 5* \u2022Koltu\u011fa Ekim Oturdu\u011funda 5* \u2022Gizli Oda 4* \u2022Vah\u015fi Arzular\u0131n Gecesinin Gizli Evindeki Y\u00fcz\u00fc Olmayan K\u00f6lelerin Yasak Gelinleri 4* \u2022Uslu \u00c7ocuklar \u00d6d\u00fcl\u00fc Hak Eder 3* \u2022An\u0131lar Denizinde Yolculuk 4* \u2022Kapan\u0131\u015f Saati 5* \u2022 Di\u011fer #neilgaiman kitaplar\u0131na nazaran bence \u00e7ok ama \u00e7ok iyi de\u011fildi .\u0130\u00e7inde \u00f6d\u00fcll\u00fc \u00f6yk\u00fclerde var, ama \u015fiirleri cidden m\u00fckemmeldi .Size tavsiyem bence b\u00fct\u00fcn #gaiman kitaplar\u0131n\u0131 okuduktan sonra bunu okuyun. \u015eimdi teker teker hikayelere ka\u00e7 puan verdi\u011fimi s\u00f6yleyece\u011fim; \u2022Z\u00fcmr\u00fct Dosya 3* \u2022Peri Dans\u0131 5* \u2022Koltu\u011fa Ekim Oturdu\u011funda 5* \u2022Gizli Oda 4* \u2022Vah\u015fi Arzular\u0131n Gecesinin Gizli Evindeki Y\u00fcz\u00fc Olmayan K\u00f6lelerin Yasak Gelinleri 4* \u2022Uslu \u00c7ocuklar \u00d6d\u00fcl\u00fc Hak Eder 3* \u2022An\u0131lar Denizinde Yolculuk 4* \u2022Kapan\u0131\u015f Saati 5* \u2022Vah\u015fetin \u00c7a\u011fr\u0131s\u0131 4* \u2022Ac\u0131 Kahve 4* \u2022\u00d6tekiler 5* \u2022Hat\u0131ralar ve Hazineler 4* \u2022Bayan Finch'in Kaybolu\u015fu Vakas\u0131ndaki Ger\u00e7ekler 3* \u2022Tuhaf K\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck K\u0131zlar 5* \u2022Harlequin Valentine 5* \u2022Kilitler 4* \u2022Susan'\u0131n Sorunu 4* \u2022Talimatlar 5* \u2022Hayat Hikayem 3* \u2022Vampir Tarot Destesinden On Be\u015f Kart 4* \u2022Besleyenler ve Yiyenler 3* \u2022Hastal\u0131k Ustas\u0131n\u0131n Hastal\u0131\u011f\u0131 4* \u2022Her \u015eey Bitti\u011finde 5* \u2022Golyat 4* \u2022Tulsa Oklahoma ve Lousville Kentucky Aras\u0131nda Bir Yerlerde Greyhound Otob\u00fcs\u00fcnde Unutulmu\u015f Ayakkab\u0131 Kutusunda Bulunan G\u00fcnl\u00fcklerden Sayfalar 3* \u2022Partilerde K\u0131zlarla Nas\u0131l Konu\u015fulur? 4* \u2022U\u00e7an Dairelerin Geldi\u011fi G\u00fcn 5* \u2022G\u00fcne\u015f Ku\u015fu 5* \u2022Alaaddin'i \u0130cat Etmek 4* \u2022Vadinin H\u00fck\u00fcmdar\u0131 5* 5 puan verdiklerimi mutlaka okuyun ve #neil in hikayelere ba\u015flamadan \u00f6nceki yaz\u0131lar\u0131 da \u00e7ok ho\u015f olmu\u015f .Puan:4,2 #fragilethings #fragilethingsshortfictionsandwonders #ithakiyayinlari #zeynepheyzenates ...more Neil Gaiman's pen is more like a knotted, gnarled wand between his bent, magical fingers. Fragile Things is a collection of bizarre, intricate, yet sometimes strangely touching short stories and poems by Neil Gaiman. Not overly cryptic in the way that modern short stories seem to be. Although there was one, Diseasemaker's Croup that seemed intentionally and humorously nonsensical. Is it weird that the Introduction was my favorite part? No matter, I embrace my ravishing weirdness, his too, of cou Neil Gaiman's pen is more like a knotted, gnarled wand between his bent, magical fingers. Fragile Things is a collection of bizarre, intricate, yet sometimes strangely touching short stories and poems by Neil Gaiman. Not overly cryptic in the way that modern short stories seem to be. Although there was one, Diseasemaker's Croup that seemed intentionally and humorously nonsensical. Is it weird that the Introduction was my favorite part? No matter, I embrace my ravishing weirdness, his too, of course. As many of these short stories were written for anthologies where a specific subject or writing style was requested from each anthologies'...organizer/gatherer(?), it was interesting to be privy to his musings on each one. Over all, knowing the background of each Fragile Thing, helped me as a reader to better appreciate them as individuals. My favorite stories from this anthology are: The Mapmaker, A Study in Emerald, Closing Time, Bitter Grounds, Good Boys Deserve Favors, The Facts in the Case of the Departure of Miss Finch, Harlequin Valentine, The Problem of Susan, How Do You Think it Feels?, My Life, Feeders and Eaters, Sunbird, and The Monarch of the Glen. Fragile Things is worthy of four and a half stars, in my humble opinion... A few lovely gems from Neil Gaiman's, Fragile Things: \"I am selfish, private, and easily bored. Will this be a problem?\"-Neil Gaiman-Fragile Things \"I had once been a crack-shot. Now I had nothing, save a fear of the world-beneath-the-world akin to panic, which meant that I would gladly pay sixpence of my army pension for a Hansom cab rather than a penny to travel underground.\"-Neil Gaiman-Fragile Things \"Cities, he thought, must be filled with time: all the places where people congregated, where they came and brought time with them. And if that were true, Shadow mused, then there could be other places, where the people were thin on the ground, and the land waited, bitter and granite, and a thousand years was an eyeblink to the hills\u2014a scudding of clouds, a wavering of rushes and nothing more, in the places where time was as thin on the ground as the people.\"-Fragile Things-Neil Gaiman \"This fight was old, Shadow thought, older than even Mr. Alice knew, and he was thinking that even as the creature\u2019s talons raked his chest. It was the fight of man against monster, and it was old as time: it was Theseus battling the Minotaur, it was Beowulf and Grendel, it was the fight of every hero who had ever stood between the firelight and the darkness and wiped the blood of something inhuman from his sword.\"-Neil Gaiman, Fragile Things ...more I have such a strange relationship with Neil Gaiman's writing, because I dislike the majority of it, but the few things that resonate well with me resonate so completely and so memorably that I don't ever forget them. There were three stories and one poem that I actually quite liked, but other than that this particular collection really didn't work for me, mostly because I feel as if Gaiman is particularly weak in crafting distinctive narrators (especially when writing in first person) which is I have such a strange relationship with Neil Gaiman's writing, because I dislike the majority of it, but the few things that resonate well with me resonate so completely and so memorably that I don't ever forget them. There were three stories and one poem that I actually quite liked, but other than that this particular collection really didn't work for me, mostly because I feel as if Gaiman is particularly weak in crafting distinctive narrators (especially when writing in first person) which is fine in a novel, but tends to make for some samey short story reading. That said, nearly every story had at least one breathtakingly gorgeous moment; what Gaiman lacks in plot and character he often makes up for with striking, strange, beautiful imagery. Still, a few flashes of insight are not enough to redeem otherwise lackluster short stories. I disliked Gaiman's two pieces inspired by/written for Tori Amos the most; they felt oddly male-gazey and almost as if he were trying too hard to fit his writing into the framework of Amos' music. I also particularly loathed \"How To Talk To Girls At Parties\" for similar reasons. As I mentioned before, most of the stories weren't particularly memorable for me. I found \"A Study In Emerald\" to be clever and charming and \"Feeders and Eaters\" was raw and creative though undermined by its framing narrative and unmemorable narrator. My two favorites were \"October In The Chair\" (with the caveat that I loathed the framing narrative) and \"Bitter Grounds\" though I quite liked the novella at the end too, even though I hadn't yet read American Gods and probably spoiled myself a bit. Gaiman's poetry left me colder than his short stories, but I did find \"The Day The Saucers Came\" to be clever and cute and, moreover, rather meaningful. Regardless of the merit of the individual stories, Fragile Things as a collection is flawed; the stories feel too similar and taken in quick succession becomes a study in quirkiness rather than good writing. That Neil Gaiman is utterly capable of writing gorgeous, transcendent prose is something I would never contest (I still get shivers when I think of \"Snow, Glass, Apples\"); this collection, however, is lacking. ...more Whenever a writer takes questions at a reading, an audience member inevitably asks, \"Where do you get your ideas?\" In the case of Fragile Things, Neil Gaiman's latest collection of short fiction and poetry, the question may be fair - ideas are very much on display - but his best work is driven by character and by the central question of popular fiction: What happens next? In other words, Neil Gaiman tells stories. The half-dozen readers in America who still believe that genre means something migh Whenever a writer takes questions at a reading, an audience member inevitably asks, \"Where do you get your ideas?\" In the case of Fragile Things, Neil Gaiman's latest collection of short fiction and poetry, the question may be fair - ideas are very much on display - but his best work is driven by character and by the central question of popular fiction: What happens next? In other words, Neil Gaiman tells stories. The half-dozen readers in America who still believe that genre means something might see Gaiman as the English answer to Stephen King, and might classify these tales as fantasy, as horror, as science fiction - more broadly as \"weird tales,\" descendants of queer English ghost stories from the early decades of the last century. As if to confound these readers, Gaiman starts off the collection with \"A Study in Emerald,\" a Hugo-winning collision between the worlds of Arthur Conan Doyle and H. P. Lovecraft. The story's narrator, a medical man who served with the British army in Afghanistan, neatly elides the difference between these two literary landscapes: ...more It's a book of mixed emotions. It leaves you with excitement, deep thoughts, chill on your back, admiration, and hunger to read good short stories more. No wonder the name includes 'wonders' since those are not ordinary stories. I like it when I have certain feelings lingering inside my mind whenever I think about that book. Fragile things will be remembered as a book of rich imagination and best scary stories I've ever read. I wanted to love this book so badly!!! I was so excited to finally read Neil Gaiman but, sadly, it proved to be much too tedious of a read for me to be able to enjoy my experience of \"Fragile Things\". There were a few stories I genuinely enjoyed but for the most part I found this Bookclub choice a real chore...and I picked it :(. Relatos que fascinan, enamoran y sorprenden. P\u00edldoras de un mundo m\u00e1gico donde Gaiman es el h\u00e9roe de toda leyenda. Algunos relatos me han gustado especialmente como La danza de las hadas, Quince cartas de un tarot vamp\u00edrico, Como crees que me siento...pero especialmente la secuela de American Gods. \u00a1Eso si es un regalo! Otros relatos pasaron desapercibidos pero sin duda siempre aportaron algo.<+++>Fragile Things: Short Fictions and Wonders</+++>", "Title": "Fragile Things: Short Fictions and Wonders"},
