{"Comments": "<+++>Carnal: Somewhere Over 40 Winks</+++>It was simply awful. Kudos to the author, his friends and family for the fake reviews.<---F> This book is a masterpiece</---F>. It takes you in an exhilarating journey where one is captivated to hold self and flow with the pages. Almost each page unfolds a secret but also puzzles reader\u2019s mind with few more. It sets herself apart with a legendary writing style which draws a multi dimensional picture for its readers. I almost stopped everything else when I started reading this book and felt elated after finishing it in a week. This book is a bundle of secrets and I felt like a detective in the This book is a masterpiece. It takes you in an exhilarating journey where one is captivated to hold self and flow with the pages. Almost each page unfolds a secret but also puzzles reader\u2019s mind with few more. It sets herself apart with a legendary writing style which draws a multi dimensional picture for its readers. I almost stopped everything else when I started reading this book and felt elated after finishing it in a week. This book is a bundle of secrets and I felt like a detective in the end solving the mystery. I am sure I will be able to reveal more when I read it second time. It is intellectually invigorating. ...more Part Lost,<---M> part Heroes</---M>, part detective mystery; this well-written mind-bending book will give you many mysteries to solve along the way. The author's writing style is fresh and fun to read, and kept my interest from start-to-finish. The book follows a cast of about twenty characters as their lives weave together. As soon as I finished the book, I just had to read it a second time, both to gain a more thorough understanding, and because I just wasn't ready for it to be over yet. That second readin Part Lost, part Heroes, part detective mystery; this well-written mind-bending book will give you many mysteries to solve along the way. The author's writing style is fresh and fun to read, and kept my interest from start-to-finish. The book follows a cast of about twenty characters as their lives weave together. As soon as I finished the book, I just had to read it a second time, both to gain a more thorough understanding, and because I just wasn't ready for it to be over yet. That second reading kept me smiling throughout as I more fully appreciated the author's cleverness. ...more WOW. What a weird book. And I mean that in the best possible way. Certainly, Somewhere Carnal is one of those books you kinda have to read because it presents itself brilliantly, with interesting characters who are tied together in meaningful ways. Still, there are things about the ending that bugged me: 1. What the hell happened to Oceana? Why does she die? Did I miss something? ok. Fine. that's my only real gripe, but seriously! Definitely novel and puzzling. At times too obscure and in dire need of editing. I both liked and disliked this book. By 70% of the way through, I just wanted it to end. During the last 10% or so, the pieces were put in place, and were very cool. The prose is sometimes torturous, and sometimes brilliant. A truly mixed bag of a book, so I give it three stars but can't recommend it because of the uneven writing. Definitely one of the weirdest and confusing books I've ever read. It took me a while to finish cuz i had no idea where it was going or what exactly was going on. But for some reason by the end it was still a decent book. [SPOILER ALERT] I think the main point of the book was to show how everyone was connected, but it was in such a weird and sci-fi way that it would have been impossible to figure out at the beginning. I an still a little confused about how exactly everyone was connected. Also, n Definitely one of the weirdest and confusing books I've ever read. It took me a while to finish cuz i had no idea where it was going or what exactly was going on. But for some reason by the end it was still a decent book. [SPOILER ALERT] I think the main point of the book was to show how everyone was connected, but it was in such a weird and sci-fi way that it would have been impossible to figure out at the beginning. I an still a little confused about how exactly everyone was connected. Also, not sure what happened to Oceana, unless she was another SIN. There were a lot of characters to keep track of. Decent and interesting for sure, but confusing and took a long time to read. Three Stars. ...more The author delivers an unconventional blend of mystery and psychological drama. His unusual style creates a constellation of characters around a set of serial killings. As the story unfolds, you discover a web of interrelations between the quirky, often bizarre characters and these unprecedented brutalities. You must negotiate these incidents alongside the characters, moving through a dreamlike world that is at times pierced with harsh truth. With themes of loneliness, love, and the power of the The author delivers an unconventional blend of mystery and psychological drama. His unusual style creates a constellation of characters around a set of serial killings. As the story unfolds, you discover a web of interrelations between the quirky, often bizarre characters and these unprecedented brutalities. You must negotiate these incidents alongside the characters, moving through a dreamlike world that is at times pierced with harsh truth. With themes of loneliness, love, and the power of the human mind, this book compels readers to question not only their expectations about conventional storytelling but also their perception of reality itself. ...more My buddy recommended this book to me. I liked its refreshing writing style although the plot was a bit complex for my taste. I wasn't surprise, however, knowing that my friend is an experimental novel junkie. The ending was very tastefully executed, I must say. The link my buddy pointed me to was helpful : https://sites.google.com/site/somewhe... Anyway, I commend the author for trying to break the mold. Happy reading! The characters were 1 dimensional and to make up for that the author appears to have used an overly complex plot and awkward sentence structure to add complexity to the story. Most of what was happening had no baring on the story as a whole. On the plus side the ending, although not mind altering, did catch me mildly off guard. Ultimately, I liked what the author was trying to do, but not the execution. For me, this novel read like a long poem. I needed set-aside time and a distraction-free corner to fully appreciate it. The numerous characters threw me off at first but its odd but fresh writing style kept me reading. I most enjoyed the last chapter where things were put together brilliantly. It is one of those books that people will either love it or hate it. I enjoyed this book although I was often confused about the characters. About half way through, I started keeping a list of all the characters, their descriptions and how they related to each other. I feel like I need to read it again to really understand the story.<---A>Rom LcO'Feer</---A><---C>Rom LcO'Feer</---C><+++>Carnal: Somewhere Over 40 Winks</+++>", "Title": "Carnal: Somewhere Over 40 Winks"},
