{"Comments": "I am a fan of Coupland and I have read everything he has ever published, but it is clear after reading Jpod that he's been in Vancouver too long and needs to get out for a weekend, if only to try another city's dope and take-out. Jpod is supposed to be the sequel to Microserfs, but Coupland wastes this one hunting-and-pecking for Gen Y/Echo Boom culture like a noob coder; he doesn't see that the map is not the terrain. So what if the main character's Mom is growing and selling weed, Dad is datin I am a fan of Coupland and I have read everything he has ever published, but it is clear after reading Jpod that he's been in Vancouver too long and needs to get out for a weekend, if only to try another city's dope and take-out. Jpod is supposed to be the sequel to Microserfs, but Coupland wastes this one hunting-and-pecking for Gen Y/Echo Boom culture like a noob coder; he doesn't see that the map is not the terrain. So what if the main character's Mom is growing and selling weed,<---M> Dad is dating his son's classmates</---M>, and his boss is being manipulated by a billionaire Asian criminal? Sure it's shocking, but is this the zeitgeist, or just, \"Extreme Vancouver?\" Coupland needs to look beyond the electronic globe his own character creates (he writes himself into the book and creates an interactive-globe killer app that saves the group from techie overwork and under-compensation); that metaphor for an impersonal electronic world fails because his characters never break through as real people with any purpose. Gen Y's struggle to assert \"authorship\", i.e. identity in a world where society = electronic gaming, should have been inherent in the characters' personal lives and struggles; instead, Coupland builds them with thin and obvious devices like everyone playing the \"what-superpower-would-you-have\" game. In the end, I am not sure this story or these characters matter, and I think they may as well not have been. Phooey, Doug, Phoeey I say! Has the well run dry? ...more I'm a little conflicted over my reaction to this novel. Because it was an undeniably enjoyable read and there was literally not a chapter which didn't make me laugh out loud.<---F> And yet, I feel</---F>... underwhelmed. I feel I should preface this review by saying, Coupland is my favourite author. Like, by a really long way. I love all his books insanely much. (Well, except Shampoo Planet . No one loves Shampoo Planet . Except Ryan Ross, apparently .) I want to write like him. I would happily only ever read Co I'm a little conflicted over my reaction to this novel. Because it was an undeniably enjoyable read and there was literally not a chapter which didn't make me laugh out loud. And yet, I feel... underwhelmed. I feel I should preface this review by saying, Coupland is my favourite author. Like, by a really long way. I love all his books insanely much. (Well, except Shampoo Planet . No one loves Shampoo Planet . Except Ryan Ross, apparently .) I want to write like him. I would happily only ever read Coupland-esque books, if enough existed. That said, what I admire most about his writing is how he has matured. Because I am not one of those people who falls over themselves at how AWESOME Generation X is. It's not. It's a jumping off point -- and the depth, the humanity Coupland has put into his novels in the past 15 years make it look... paltry. Eleanor Rigby completely, completely blew me away. I was expecting to hate it, but its beauty is so understated and genuinely poignant . Seriously: wow. Which is why I was hesitant when I read the description of jPod . It sounded like Microserfs updated and remixed with All Families Are Psychotic . Which it basically is. And don't get me wrong, it's quite a feat to be as successfully zeitgeisty and funny as a Microserfs update calls for. But compared to Eleanor Rigby ? Feels undeniably like a step backwards. It was also the first Coupland (barring Shampoo Planet :P) that felt repetitive to me. I've met Ethan before. (In fact, it just took me 30 seconds to remember his name, he's so familiar... as Richard, as Dan.) The romance between Ethan and Kaitlin, in particular, I barely felt like I had to concentrate on, because I knew exactly what was going to happen. Neurotic Boy + Quirky Girl = Cute, Functional Relationship. It's not a bad trope, but it's still a trope ( Garden State , anyone?). It's also extremely familiar in the Coupland universe. Confession time: Coupland novels tend to make me cry. Really a lot. Girlfriend In A Coma is the worst, but Microserfs also makes me sob. jPod , even though it rationalized this, felt emotionally void. I wasn't left with any kind of strong emotional connection to any of the characters. And frankly, the warm characterization is what has always separared Coupland from the Bret Easton Ellises of the writing world. (I can't abide Bret Easton Ellis. He's an extraordinarily talented writer. Hate his books.) I took a Contemporary Literature class a couple of years ago and my very smart lecturer was talking, in passing, about Coupland and said that he was the kind of author to write himself into his books. My reaction was, pffft! bitch, please . But I guess she was right; I was wrong. :/ Although metafiction is a pet peeve of mine, I really don't mind it when it's done in the right measure with the right amount of irony. jPod certainly wasn't Philip Roth's Operation Shylock (which I felt fell headfirst into its own wankery), and Coupland-as-a-Machiavellian-tycoon certainly made me laugh a lot. Still, it makes me twitch a little. I feel like this is the book a lot of people (the people who think Generation X is AWESOME and never bothered to read much else of his work) have been expecting from Coupland. The book that's smarter-than-thou and wittily postmodern. And to his credit, he wrote it on his own terms and made it very funny. I just hope he gets back to writing with the heart of Girlfriend In A Coma and Eleanor Rigby in future. ...more Here's what I've noticed. People that have read extensive Coupland novels view this book more negatively. People who have never/barely read Coupland love this book. It is my opinion that this is a very good book. It's sarcastic, witty, satirical, and outlandish. This didn't come from the same Coupland that wrote Generation X, Microserfs, Shampoo Planet and all those 90's classics that Couplanders want to hang on to so badly. This is a funny book that can be taken lightly with great humor. In tho Here's what I've noticed. People that have read extensive Coupland novels view this book more negatively. People who have never/barely read Coupland love this book. It is my opinion that this is a very good book. It's sarcastic, witty, satirical, and outlandish. This didn't come from the same Coupland that wrote Generation X, Microserfs, Shampoo Planet and all those 90's classics that Couplanders want to hang on to so badly. This is a funny book that can be taken lightly with great humor. In those 90's he focused much more on the frustrations and anxieties of his characters. In this book he's almost making those anxieties into absurd hyperbole. For God sakes he inserts himself into the book as a pretentious arrogant asshole that is hated (at first) by everybody in Jpod. If you've never read Coupland before, Read This. If you've read some or lot's of him before, try and laugh. Not every book needs a profound moral of a story. Sometimes you can have some fun reading too. ...more Recently, a new friend introduced me to the concept of biji, a Chinese form of writing roughly translated as \u2018brush notes\u2019 or \u2018jottings\u2019. This literary genre is defined by a three-part division consisting of different styles and lacking definitive structure. I sought an example of the format and was directed toward <---A>Douglas Coupland</---A>\u2019s \u2018<+++>JPod</+++>\u2019, an off-beat story of life in a modern Vancouver office. Meet Ethan, a 28 year old games developer who spends his days toggling between virtual world building Recently, a new friend introduced me to the concept of biji, a Chinese form of writing roughly translated as \u2018brush notes\u2019 or \u2018jottings\u2019. This literary genre is defined by a three-part division consisting of different styles and lacking definitive structure. I sought an example of the format and was directed toward Douglas Coupland\u2019s \u2018<+++>JPod</+++>\u2019, an off-beat story of life in a modern Vancouver office. Meet Ethan, a 28 year old games developer who spends his days toggling between virtual world building, nicknaming co-workers, and fetching the company snack supplies. In his down time, he helps his family dispose of drug dealers, sever ties with psychotic lovers, and feed illegal immigrants squatting in his apartment. After a ruling from new boss <---C>Steve</---C>, Ethan and his five pod mates must overhaul their current project to accommodate a turtle modelled on a reality T.V. presenter. They decide to corrupt the game with a rogue clown demon, stopping work only to deal with incestuous sexual emergencies, lesbian cult members, and the suspicious abduction of a recently appointed superior. Obligated to undertake a rescue mission in China, Ethan fights off the threat of a viral outbreak, and begs a cantankerous author to rescue him from an early roadside death. Here, Coupland openly inserts himself into the narrative as a character that, although grumpy and not averse to sneaky blackmail, conveniently turns up to save the day. \u2018JPod\u2019 reads like a scrapbook, shifting between witty narratives, streams of consciousness in squashed or inflated text, character constructed interviews, anagram definitions, and the entire number series of Pi. The biji style is used as a visual representation of life with its interruptions and conflicting demands on attention. Instead of finding the strange digressions distracting, the reader bounces around a lively story full of entertaining, and somehow relevant tangents. Coupland has created a modern tapestry, one I can only describe as an absolute circus. My usual enjoyment of a book lies in how much I miss it after the final page. And still, every morning at reading time, I wish Ethan and the gang were still going strong. It was the first of Coupland\u2019s novels I read and it certainly won\u2019t be the last. Note: I\u2019ve been told there is a T.V. spin-off which I\u2019ve ordered via Amazon. Stay tuned for my thoughts Follow me on the blog! ---> https://ponderdeeper.wordpress.com/ ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) As I've detailed here before, I have for most of my adult life been an obsessive fan of \"Generation X\" phrase-coiner Douglas Coupland; but while I read literally everything from his first book up to Miss Wyoming when younger, mostly for personal reasons, and have read literally everything from The Gum Thie (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) As I've detailed here before, I have for most of my adult life been an obsessive fan of \"Generation X\" phrase-coiner Douglas Coupland; but while I read literally everything from his first book up to Miss Wyoming when younger, mostly for personal reasons, and have read literally everything from The Gum Thief to now for professional reasons, there's a chunk from 2000 to 2007 that I completely missed altogether (comprising the books All Families are Psychotic , Hey Nostradamus! , Eleanor Rigby and jPod ), mostly because this was when Coupland reached the low point of his transition between Postmodernism and 21st-century \"Sincerism,\" right at a point when I myself was doing a lot more writing of books in my life than the reading of them. I mean, take 2006's jPod as a good example, which was ostensibly meant to be a \"conceptual sequel\" of sorts to the biggest hit of his career, 1995's Microserfs , with the two novels sharing a lot of the same premises and details; but while Microserfs was a revelatory celebration of a coming geek entrepreneurial class just starting to show itself, jPod is an unimaginative reaction to our Web 2.0 times, with Coupland seemingly out of ideas about what to do with his old pop-culture shtick and quirky Aspie characters besides to ramp things up to an unsatisfyingly cartoonish level, but not yet understanding what he needed to do to change his career path into its next higher level. Eventually, of course, he did end up realizing what to do, which in a nutshell was to make his stories a lot weirder and darker (see Generation A and Player One , for example); but here where he was still floundering with it all, jPod feels very much like a Coupland simply waiting with boredom for the high-profile MTV shorts offer that were guaranteed to come with any early-2000s project of his (and indeed, jPod itself got made into a 13-episode show for Canadian television, with a novel that feels very much like a quickly done afterthought to that show instead of the other way around). As big a fan as I am of his, it's admittedly hard to justify this particular stretch of his career, so best perhaps to turn either to the books older than these or newer to save yourself some wasted reading experiences. Out of 10: N/A ...more This was middle of the road as far as Coupland books go. People call it Microserfs 2.0. Since I loved Microserfs, I have to disagree. On one hand, as a computer programmer, I loved that part of the story. The other things I loved? Douglas Coupland portraying himself as a complete douchebag. Ethan's pot-growing, lover-shooting Mom. The quirkiness of the jPod cast. Now you're asking yourselves \"But what did you hate?\" The hatred is directed at the post modern bend the novel takes toward the end. The This was middle of the road as far as Coupland books go. People call it Microserfs 2.0. Since I loved Microserfs, I have to disagree. On one hand, as a computer programmer, I loved that part of the story. The other things I loved? Douglas Coupland portraying himself as a complete douchebag. Ethan's pot-growing, lover-shooting Mom. The quirkiness of the jPod cast. Now you're asking yourselves \"But what did you hate?\" The hatred is directed at the post modern bend the novel takes toward the end. The main characters give each other brain teasers. All of them are wastes of pages. Do we really need 40 or so pages of pi so we can look for the l that he substituted for a 1? That's L and ONE, to make things more legible. The other brainteasers are similar wastes of time. Not to say jPod is a bad book. It isn't. It just isn't as good as a lot of Coupland's others, like Generation X, Microserfs, and All Families are Psychotic. If you're a Coupland completist, you'll still want to read it. Just do your yourself a favor and get it out of the way early. ...more This book started off pretty strong, but became disappointing after maybe 100 pages, and never picked up from there. I kept hoping it would pull itself out of the death spiral, but no. 448 pages. I would estimate that this breaks down into: * 24 pages of fun cultural references * 12 pages of things that will entertain programmers * 15 pages of things that will offend programmers * 164 pages of things that will offend Chinese people, lesbians, ballroom dancers, people who work in offices, vegetarians, This book started off pretty strong, but became disappointing after maybe 100 pages, and never picked up from there. I kept hoping it would pull itself out of the death spiral, but no. 448 pages. I would estimate that this breaks down into: * 24 pages of fun cultural references * 12 pages of things that will entertain programmers * 15 pages of things that will offend programmers * 164 pages of things that will offend Chinese people, lesbians, ballroom dancers, people who work in offices, vegetarians, carnivores, etc., etc. * 95 pages of people actively not working * 1 page that vaguely suggests someone might be working * 75 pages of lists of things (eg, 3-letter words used in Scrabble) * 62 pages of literary masturbation If you actually read that entire list, you might make it through the book, but that's isn't meant as a recommendation. ...more I enjoyed this book as I usually enjoy most of Coupland's stuff. But what I really liked are the nonlinear parts of this book that are almost visual art in disguise, especially three rant-ish blocks of Kerouacian flow, in which Coupland nails some dark truths about being alive today and how much the online world influences our individual and collective psyches. I like how he is not just critical of the world surrounding Gen X and Millennial people (like he was in Generation X), but of these gene I enjoyed this book as I usually enjoy most of Coupland's stuff. But what I really liked are the nonlinear parts of this book that are almost visual art in disguise, especially three rant-ish blocks of Kerouacian flow, in which Coupland nails some dark truths about being alive today and how much the online world influences our individual and collective psyches. I like how he is not just critical of the world surrounding Gen X and Millennial people (like he was in Generation X), but of these generations themselves. We are complicit in our own misery and shortcomings. If we live in a culture, we contribute to the culture for all its ills. I always feel like I learn something from Coupland's writing, but in a good way rather than your standard academic pedagogical approach. Coupland says the things others are scared or too PC to. He also has a sense of humor coupled with a deep cynicism. Storywise, it seems like he is stuck a bit in a narrative loop and his characters are almost interchangable in all his books/stories. But again what set this book apart is the linear story being made jagged by the inclusion of (it's hard to describe) Coupland's visual sense and the nonlinear pages, which compose a good 20% of the overall book. Pages of HTML code, concepts written in an Asian character-driven language, pages with almost nothing on them but for some little absurd thing, etc. He is showing how the computer and internet are deeply effecting our experience of reality and how our minds think and process the world. ...more I wanted to like this book, but as with most of Coupland's work these days, it just seemed needlessly convoluted and gimmicky, and was populated with a host of thoroughly unlikable characters. Most everything he writes is the sort of thing that you'd find to be brilliant if you were in your early twenties and looking forward to a life of exciting employment in the gaming/software industry--but anyone who's been around the block in that world a few times would find it to be sophomoric at best, I I wanted to like this book, but as with most of Coupland's work these days, it just seemed needlessly convoluted and gimmicky, and was populated with a host of thoroughly unlikable characters. Most everything he writes is the sort of thing that you'd find to be brilliant if you were in your early twenties and looking forward to a life of exciting employment in the gaming/software industry--but anyone who's been around the block in that world a few times would find it to be sophomoric at best, I think. I know, I know, it's supposed to be a wackytime parody--but if so it's a fairly tedious one. I was hoping for a return to the good old days of Microserfs but all this read did was lead me to wonder if Microserfs was as good as I imagined it to be at the time (when I was, er, 24, and looking forward to a life of exciting employment in the software industry). ...more There's a lot to love about this book, and some things that are not so great. Coupland's use of himself as deus ex machina is a little trite, and the ending is unsatisfying to say the least. There are at least 5 plot points raised over the course of the book that are left completely unresolved. It literally just stops. Still, if you loved Microserfs, all the world weary pop culture references and geek office camaraderie are there for you. What I really loved about this book was the almost scary There's a lot to love about this book, and some things that are not so great. Coupland's use of himself as deus ex machina is a little trite, and the ending is unsatisfying to say the least. There are at least 5 plot points raised over the course of the book that are left completely unresolved. It literally just stops. Still, if you loved Microserfs, all the world weary pop culture references and geek office camaraderie are there for you. What I really loved about this book was the almost scary moral relativism on display (Kam Phong, Carol, Greg, Ethan's dad, Coupland) almost every character does something despicable and/or illegal at some point (murder, adultery, drug trafficking, extortion), and everyone else just kind of shrugs and or aids and abets. It's fascinating. OK, one thing about the end annoyed the hell out of me. Without spoiling, let's just say something important happens towards the end involving digging a hole and a safe deposit box key, and no explanation is given as to why the key is needed. Irritating. Still 4-stars, solely on the basis of well developed characters and first rate geek humor. Highly recommended if you like that sort of thing. ...more This is my first Douglas Coupland book. I was surprised to read so many bad reviews but I really loved this book. It had some laugh out loud moments for me and I enjoyed the quirkiness of the characters. And the situations Ethan got into were hilarious. I watched 2 episodes of the short lived Canadian TV show and finding it just as good if not better than the book. The casting is great and even the new stuff they added or changed. fit right in with the characters. A hilarious satire of modern capitalism and consumerism. JPod was recommended to me by several friends. Coupland seems to have a very loyal and dedicated following, especially from people of particular generations. So when I first bought JPod I was excited to read an author who would be able to put the nuanced plight of my generation on the page in a fun, contemporary way. I didn't get that. At all. I've been told that JPod isn't the best example of his work, but it did enough damage to my perception of his style to cause me not to bother looking furthe JPod was recommended to me by several friends. Coupland seems to have a very loyal and dedicated following, especially from people of particular generations. So when I first bought JPod I was excited to read an author who would be able to put the nuanced plight of my generation on the page in a fun, contemporary way. I didn't get that. At all. I've been told that JPod isn't the best example of his work, but it did enough damage to my perception of his style to cause me not to bother looking further. When I give a book one star it's obviously more than a dislike of the topic, technical issues or some other part of the recipe of taste. It's just a piece that didn't work for me on every level. But for the benefit of anyone thinking about reading the book, I'll explain what bothered me most about it and remind you that my strong dislike of the book is obviously not shared by most and so take my opinion as the minority. You might like it a lot more than I did. For me, as I read the book, I literally felt like I was wasting my time. It's one thing to do something just for fun, knowing full well it has no meaning or impact on your life; it's another thing entirely to be doing something you thought would be fun, only to have the conscious realization that every minute that ticks down as you read is a minute stolen from you. And I'm a slow reader so it's even more painful. The characters were paper-thin, none of them likeable. And I know people just like them in real life. But I like those people. So I'm assuming Coupland failed to capture their redeeming characteristics for me. The plot was trivial. The dialogue was trivial. Everything was just that - trivial. It was self-referential, pretentious, and loaded with pop-culture references. Not in a good 'we'll look back at this someday and get nostalgic for the classics' kinda way. It was more of a 'why would he reference something no one will remember in three years?' kinda way. I suppose some might say that everything I've identified may be the whole point of the book and it's a clever statement on our culture or generation. If that's the case, then I was right in feeling like my time was being wasted. And if I'm wrong, then it's just a boring book. Not sure he wins either way with me. ...more Si j'avais lu ce bouquin en autre langue et enti\u00e8rement, \u00e7a aurait \u00e9t\u00e9 la plus grosse perte de temps de ma vie. S\u00e9rieux. Encore pire qu'avoir vu le film \"My Bloody Valentine\" au premier rang du cin\u00e9ma et en 3D le soir m\u00eame o\u00f9 il est sorti. Encore pire que avoir jou\u00e9 des jours et des nuits \u00e0 Pok\u00e9mon Gold pour le GBC quand j'\u00e9tais au secondaire. S\u00e9rieux. Mais comme je l'ai lu en fran\u00e7ais, j'ai au moins appris quelques expressions. Pis heureusement, apr\u00e8s avoir lu la premi\u00e8re partie (il y en a troi Si j'avais lu ce bouquin en autre langue et enti\u00e8rement, \u00e7a aurait \u00e9t\u00e9 la plus grosse perte de temps de ma vie. S\u00e9rieux. Encore pire qu'avoir vu le film \"My Bloody Valentine\" au premier rang du cin\u00e9ma et en 3D le soir m\u00eame o\u00f9 il est sorti. Encore pire que avoir jou\u00e9 des jours et des nuits \u00e0 Pok\u00e9mon Gold pour le GBC quand j'\u00e9tais au secondaire. S\u00e9rieux. Mais comme je l'ai lu en fran\u00e7ais, j'ai au moins appris quelques expressions. Pis heureusement, apr\u00e8s avoir lu la premi\u00e8re partie (il y en a trois), je me suis rendu compte que l'histoire \u00e9tait pourrie en osti (en fait, il n'y en a pas) et j'ai utilis\u00e9 une technique (japonaise) speed-reading pour la deuxi\u00e8me partie (je pref\u00e8re savourer un livre, mais l\u00e0 j'avais plus de choix) jusqu'\u00e0 tomber sur 17 pages remplies des 8363 nombres premiers entre 10000 et 100000. L\u00e0, \u00e7a a \u00e9t\u00e9 beaucoup trop, m\u00eame pour le speed-reading, et j'ai laiss\u00e9 tomber. Comment est-ce qu'une histoire qui se d\u00e9roule \u00e0 Vancity peut \u00eatre si d\u00e9bile que celle-ci? Le protagoniste, Ethan Jarlewski, travaille dans une bo\u00eete de d\u00e9veloppement de jeux vid\u00e9o \u00e0 Burnaby, BC. \"JPod\" est le nom de son \u00e9quipe de travail: six geeks (Ethan y compris) qui ont tous des noms de famille qui commencent par \"J\". Je m'attendais \u00e0 me retrouver un peu en lisant cette histoire de codeurs qui bossent dans ma ville pr\u00e9f\u00e9r\u00e9e du monde, mais le livre est plein de st\u00e9r\u00e9otypes et en plus j'ai trouv\u00e9 les personnages compl\u00e8tement vid\u00e9s de personnalit\u00e9. Ils ressentaient pas d'\u00e9motions, rien ne les troublait, leurs relations \u00e9taient d\u00e9nu\u00e9es de signification: c'\u00e9tait qu'un tas de personnages de carton. M\u00eame moi, qui conna\u00eet plein d'informaticiens, je conna\u00eet personne si inint\u00e9ressant que \u00e7a (haha). En plus, la famille d'Ethan semblait instable psychologiquement et Coupland (oui, l'auteur) se met en sc\u00e8ne lui-m\u00eame en tant que personnage. Osti, fous-moi la paix! ...more No rating: did not finish. Some years ago I read Douglas Coupland's Microserfs and liked it -- it was a penetrating look into the lives of IT workers, told through fictional but clearly based-on-life characters. JPod, however, is mere farce -- absurdity piled on absurdity. The main character is the son of a mother who kills a biker and buries the body in her basement; later, with his mother, he holds up and robs another group of bikers. Through a friend of his brother's, he becomes part of an ill No rating: did not finish. Some years ago I read Douglas Coupland's Microserfs and liked it -- it was a penetrating look into the lives of IT workers, told through fictional but clearly based-on-life characters. JPod, however, is mere farce -- absurdity piled on absurdity. The main character is the son of a mother who kills a biker and buries the body in her basement; later, with his mother, he holds up and robs another group of bikers. Through a friend of his brother's, he becomes part of an illegal Chinese immigrant sumggling ring. Page after page is filled with giant type, mere collections of symbols and Microsoft wingding characters, padding out what in fact is a novelette, if that. I don't know what additional absurdities Coupland planned to inflict on me, because I gave up less than a third of the way into the story. Nothing in JPod is in any way connected to life as we know it . . . Coupland is coasting; JPod is not worth reading. ...more I don't know what anyone expects from Douglas Coupland these days, much less what I expect from the man. I've read everything he's published since Generation X...sometimes I love it, sometimes I loathe it, sometimes I'm just bored. But this one made me laugh. A lot. And he brings back his plugged-in sense of playful narrative, though I wondered at times if he was sneaking in an imitation of Dave Eggars doing an imitation of Douglas Coupland. If that makes sense. Or maybe jPod is an all-around shou I don't know what anyone expects from Douglas Coupland these days, much less what I expect from the man. I've read everything he's published since Generation X...sometimes I love it, sometimes I loathe it, sometimes I'm just bored. But this one made me laugh. A lot. And he brings back his plugged-in sense of playful narrative, though I wondered at times if he was sneaking in an imitation of Dave Eggars doing an imitation of Douglas Coupland. If that makes sense. Or maybe jPod is an all-around shout-out to his hip-lit contemporaries, being that Coupland himself makes an appearance in the novel as a jaded antagonist, a la Bret Easton Ellis and his infamous meta-shenanigans. Doesn't matter. I laughed. I turned pages with great pleasure. I'll read it again and most likely laugh just as much. Definitely his best attempt in years. ...more Style and substance abound here, but I only give it one star because the plot simply went nowhere. Perhaps that was the point, but I still need my fiction to have some kind of trajectory that makes me feel I journeyed *to* something by the end. funny as hell. i laughed my arse reading this.. hohoohho. this is so relevant to everyone working with technology today. When I bought this book, I was with Katie and she was buying a copy of Less Than Zero and I said, \"In my head, Douglas Coupland and Bret Easton Ellis are the same writer\" and she said, \"That makes no sense.\" I think the original random firing of neurons in my brain that connects the two is because they're both vaguely self-hating about being gay, but I've given this more thought and I actually think I'm totally on to something. Both authors wrote allegedly generation defining novels, both love t When I bought this book, I was with Katie and she was buying a copy of Less Than Zero and I said, \"In my head, Douglas Coupland and Bret Easton Ellis are the same writer\" and she said, \"That makes no sense.\" I think the original random firing of neurons in my brain that connects the two is because they're both vaguely self-hating about being gay, but I've given this more thought and I actually think I'm totally on to something. Both authors wrote allegedly generation defining novels, both love to use brand names as symbolism and both have self-insertion complex. In the high school of late twentieth/early twenty-first century literature, Douglas Coupland is the shy nerd who's hoping he's going to be able to return for the 20 year reunion a Silicon Valley millionaire with a trophy wife and Bret Easton Ellis is the dreamy enigma who cuts class to smoke cigarettes behind the gym. Meanwhile, they both write books to ensure that these stereotypes continue to exist. Neat! When JPod was first published in 2006, it sounded interesting and I thought about buying it but it was in hardback and really expensive so instead I checked Microserfs and Girlfriend in a Coma out of the library. I remember that I hated Microserfs because living in the Bay Area on the fringe of the dot-com frenzy in the late 90s was actually kind of gross and I, therefore, did not actually want to read a romanticized book about it. After Girlfriend in a Coma, I wrote elsewhere: I think I'm now prepared to swear off Douglas Coupland forever. Like Bret Easton Ellis except not as funny, Chuck Palahniuk but not as visceral and, of course, let us not forget, an ending that only Christopher Pike could have ghost written. (Hah! I was already on to the Douglas Coupland/Bret Easton Ellis connection in 2006 and I don't even think Douglas Coupland was out yet. Actually, with Palahniuk they make a great trio of shifty bundles of internalized homophobia. That's hilarious. In the high school metaphor, Chuck Palahniuk is the guy who gets way too much enjoyment from biology class frog dissection.) BUT ANYWAY: Somehow I forgot that I previously decided I hated Douglas Coupland and I bought JPod and I really liked it. Which is weird, because it's basically the same book as Microserfs. Two theories: 1) Someone from Vancouver might hate this book because of the way it depicts how commercial aspects of American culture migrate (gaming and film industries) migrate to Canada for the tax breaks & 2) I liked JPod more than Microserfs because I'm Generation Y and so I found the humor more relatable. Ugh, that second one is kind of obnoxious but probably true. I think JPod was written before the existence of lolcats, but it has that specific sensibility to its humor: something is funny because it's ironic but what's ironic about it is that it's presented as being completely deadpan and non-ironic and so actually it's just absurd. A lot of the things that happened in this book were like that. Do you think I could pay Chuck Klosterman to write an essay about Bret Easton Ellis, Douglas Coupland and Chuck Palahniuk? Irony would implode. ...more Despu\ufffd\ufffds de leer Microserfs y del gran impacto que ese libro caus\ufffd\ufffd en m\ufffd\ufffd, inclu\ufffd\ufffd sin pensarlo este t\ufffd\ufffdtulo en mi carta a los reyes de este a\ufffd\ufffdo. Lo he terminado hoy, en el avi\ufffd\ufffdn que me tra\ufffd\ufffda de vuelta a Linz. Es sin duda un libro que no pasa desapercibido si lo lees en p\ufffd\ufffdblico, debido a las p\ufffd\ufffdginas llenas de cifras de pi que contien, p\ufffd\ufffdginas con tipograf\ufffd\ufffdas de distinto tipo y tama\ufffd\ufffdo, p\ufffd\ufffdginas con grandes kanjis\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd Adem\ufffd\ufffds de la extra\ufffd\ufffda est\ufffd\ufffdtica, creo que propia de Douglas Coupland, el Despu\ufffd\ufffds de leer Microserfs y del gran impacto que ese libro caus\ufffd\ufffd en m\ufffd\ufffd, inclu\ufffd\ufffd sin pensarlo este t\ufffd\ufffdtulo en mi carta a los reyes de este a\ufffd\ufffdo. Lo he terminado hoy, en el avi\ufffd\ufffdn que me tra\ufffd\ufffda de vuelta a Linz. Es sin duda un libro que no pasa desapercibido si lo lees en p\ufffd\ufffdblico, debido a las p\ufffd\ufffdginas llenas de cifras de pi que contien, p\ufffd\ufffdginas con tipograf\ufffd\ufffdas de distinto tipo y tama\ufffd\ufffdo, p\ufffd\ufffdginas con grandes kanjis\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd Adem\ufffd\ufffds de la extra\ufffd\ufffda est\ufffd\ufffdtica, creo que propia de Douglas Coupland, el libro en s\ufffd\ufffd me ha gustado bastante. Me ha recordado much\ufffd\ufffdsimo a Tom Sharpe, el mismo tono \ufffd\ufffdcido y los mismos personajes extremos y absurdos. Este tipo de escritores obviamente no pueden gustarle a todo el mundo. El humor que emplean para hacer una s\ufffd\ufffdtira del mundo actual es demasiado estrafalario y en el caso de Coupland, demasiado geek. En cuanto a la historia, el libro est\ufffd\ufffd contado en primera persona por un tipo muy parecido al protagonista de Microsiervos y cuyo discurso es tambi\ufffd\ufffdn similar. En este caso, el tipo, Ethan, trabaja en una multinacional dedicada al desarrollo de videjuegos y est\ufffd\ufffd metido en un grupo llamado JPod, junto con otros 5 tipos la mar de raros. La historia comienza cuando la madre de Ethan, que se dedica al narcotr\ufffd\ufffdfico, tiene un peque\ufffd\ufffdo incidente con un motorista al que acaba electrocutando por accidente. A partir de ah\ufffd\ufffd, se suceden los personajes y situaciones, a cu\ufffd\ufffdl m\ufffd\ufffds absurda, desde el padre de Ethan, actor frustrado hasta un chino mafioso dedicado al tr\ufffd\ufffdfico de personas, pasando por la madre lesbiana radical de uno de sus compa\ufffd\ufffderos de trabajo y por el propio Douglas Coupland que aparece como personaje. Si eso lo mezclamos con interminables b\ufffd\ufffdsquedas en Google, p\ufffd\ufffdginas llenas de cifras de Pi, de n\ufffd\ufffdmeros primos y un buen pu\ufffd\ufffdado de informaci\ufffd\ufffdn sobre payasos y p\ufffd\ufffdginas gore, tenemos un libro nada apto para todos los p\ufffd\ufffdblicos. Al contrario que Chuck Palahniuk, que es el escritor al que m\ufffd\ufffds odio del mundo porque se dedica a escribir sandeces extremadamente desagradables con el \ufffd\ufffdnico objetivo de causar repugnancia y turbaci\ufffd\ufffdn y que de este modo todos piensen que es un escritor buen\ufffd\ufffdsimo, este libro est\ufffd\ufffd cargado de maldad pero s\ufffd\ufffdlo para provocar risa. Si ten\ufffd\ufffdis algo en com\ufffd\ufffdn conmigo, estoy segura de que os gustar\ufffd\ufffd. ...more ...although a lot of the criticism is warranted. that being said, however, i think what i liked about 'jpod' is coupland's healthy dose of cynacism (a lot of it directed at himself and his celebrity) within the novel's 440 some-odd pages. it's also easy to pass this off as 'microserfs 2.0,' but to do so is a mistake because i think coupland's actually stretched himself like he never has before, not so much in form (because it's almost identical to 'mircoserfs') but rather in tone and theme. most ...although a lot of the criticism is warranted. that being said, however, i think what i liked about 'jpod' is coupland's healthy dose of cynacism (a lot of it directed at himself and his celebrity) within the novel's 440 some-odd pages. it's also easy to pass this off as 'microserfs 2.0,' but to do so is a mistake because i think coupland's actually stretched himself like he never has before, not so much in form (because it's almost identical to 'mircoserfs') but rather in tone and theme. most of the characters in 'microserfs' were endearing folks, people you genuinely liked. a lot of the characters in 'jpod' are often unlikeable, especially the novel's protagonist, ethan jarlweski (not hard to see why when you see ethan's parents). i do understand some people's abhorrance to inserting onself into one's novel, but the douglas coupland *in* the novel is five-star jerk off. had coupland the author made coupland the character some winning, all-around-good-guy dood, that would have been repulsive. some of the character's are, granted, a bit overdrawn and exaggerated (freedome, kam, steve, evil mark, bree, etc), but couplands endows them with enough fallability and imperfection that rise about the cliched 'quirky and offbeat' characters that pollute so many novels. and since i work in a programming department, i got a kick out of the jpod crew. by and large coupland nails techie and geek culture to the t. i laughed out loud several times. the novel's denouement is something of a let down, but i think this is entirely the point. it would have been relatively easy to wind it up nicely and neatly as he often does. this is where coupland's cynicism comes shining through: in some ways it does come off as a contractual obligation book and i can't help but think it's a subtle jab at his publisher and his readers. some may find this off-putting. i, on the other, found it completely hilarious. too many authors take their 'art' way too seriously. coupland, however, seems to have a different view. why else would he insert twenty pages of prime numbers? lighten up, people. take a joke. coupland's 'plot' in 'jpod' is merely the vehicle for his cynicism and sense of humor. don't take it too seriously. just go with it. enjoy it. ...more It's been a while since I've read this book, so we'll see how well this goes. But this book...is Douglas Coupland . I don't even know the guy, and haven't read any of his other books, but you can just tell that this is the book that he decided to have fun with. And it's a great read. It's hilarious, thoughtful and introspective from time to time, more often absurd. It's a really fun, ridiculous read. As the book progresses, you can't help but shake your head at Coupland's boldness and unashamedne It's been a while since I've read this book, so we'll see how well this goes. But this book...is Douglas Coupland . I don't even know the guy, and haven't read any of his other books, but you can just tell that this is the book that he decided to have fun with. And it's a great read. It's hilarious, thoughtful and introspective from time to time, more often absurd. It's a really fun, ridiculous read. As the book progresses, you can't help but shake your head at Coupland's boldness and unashamedness in bending the rules of fiction, but the end product certainly justifies the means, if I can say that without making any greater philosophical statement. I'm not really part of the generation that this book centers on - I'm a little after their time, I'm afraid - so I'm sure that I didn't connect as well with it as someone who was born a decade earlier might. But as long as you enjoy a good dose of absurdity and a don't mind a plot that doesn't really give a rat's ass where you think it should go next, it's certainly worth a read. It's post-(post-?)modern fiction on the entirely opposite end of the spectrum from the fantastic, elegant, and complex work of Jonathan Safran Foer , but that is in no way a negative difference. It's absurd where Foer is profound, inscrutable in its complex strangeness rather than its strange complexity. And, in a way, he reminds me, just vaguely, of the great Douglas Adams - in a totally different genre, of course, but if Adams were to write a book about office drones back home in the early 21st century, I imagine it would look something like this. ...more \"The three-hour meeting had taken place in a two-hundred-seat room nicknamed the air-conditioned rectum. I tried to make the event go faster by pretending to have superpower vision: I could see the carbon dioxide pumping in and out of everyone's nose and mouth - it was purple. It made me think of that urban legend about the chemical they put in swimming pools that reveals when somebody pees. Then I wondered if Leonardo da Vinci had every inhaled any of the oxygen molecules I was breathing, or if \"The three-hour meeting had taken place in a two-hundred-seat room nicknamed the air-conditioned rectum. I tried to make the event go faster by pretending to have superpower vision: I could see the carbon dioxide pumping in and out of everyone's nose and mouth - it was purple. It made me think of that urban legend about the chemical they put in swimming pools that reveals when somebody pees. Then I wondered if Leonardo da Vinci had every inhaled any of the oxygen molecules I was breathing, or if he ever had to sit through a marketing meeting. What would that have been like? \" Leo, thanks for you input, but our studies indicate that when they see Lisa smile, they want a sexy, flirty smile, not that grim little slit she has now. Also I don't know what that closet case Michelangel is thinking with that naked David guy, but Jesus, clamp a diaper onto him pronto. Next item on the agenda: Perspective - Passing Fad or Opportunity to Win? But first, Katie here is going to tell us about this Friday's Jeans Day, to be followed by a ten-minute muffin break.\" But the word \"turtle\" pulled me out my reverie . . .\" - From JPod. Coupland has an uncanny ability to take items from the zeitgeist and place them into a narrative that is fun to read. We all have those goofy moments at work when we wondered 'why are we are here for this ' or 'did I need all my education for this?' This book takes all those moments and puts them together into one fun place. Also check out the TV series based on the book at www. cbc.ca/jpod . ...more JPod is another Coupland book set in the software development industry, in this case a thinly disguised Electronic Arts. This is not so much a novel as a series of funny sketches, some of which are linked with each other. The main character Ethan and his colleagues appear to do no actual work and mainly serve to advance Coupland\u2019s views about programmers\u2019 lives and obsessions. Admittedly some of them are pretty close to the mark. :-) This is in no way as serious a novel as Microserfs. There is mu JPod is another Coupland book set in the software development industry, in this case a thinly disguised Electronic Arts. This is not so much a novel as a series of funny sketches, some of which are linked with each other. The main character Ethan and his colleagues appear to do no actual work and mainly serve to advance Coupland\u2019s views about programmers\u2019 lives and obsessions. Admittedly some of them are pretty close to the mark. :-) This is in no way as serious a novel as Microserfs. There is much less attempt at providing social commentary and Coupland just seems to play it for laughs. Much of the novel verges on the surreal, a rather odd diversion to China, a ballroom-dancing gangster and middle-class drug-dealing parents being cases in point. Towards the end the author even inserts an \u2018Evil Coupland\u2019 version of himself into the novel. The Dilbert cartoons by Scott Adams have already covered most of the ground in the workplace sketches, so although they are funny they don\u2019t seem that fresh. Also, Coupland seems to pull his punches when dealing with the characters\u2019amoral viewpoints in the non-workplace situations, which I found a little frustrating. He just didn\u2019t seem to quite get to the heart of why they were as they were. Funny, but with little substance. ...more \" Microserfs for the age of Google\" is how this is oft-described. That's pretty accurate, really. Stylistically, it's much the same\u2014which was nice, because Microserfs is pretty much my favorite Douglas Coupland book. (I have now read ALL of them! *sob* Well, except for the one written in Japanese and released only in Japan.) What surprised me is how much more cynical this book is. I mean, not that Microserfs is without cynicism, but there's an innocence to it, a wonder. I don't think anyone wou \" Microserfs for the age of Google\" is how this is oft-described. That's pretty accurate, really. Stylistically, it's much the same\u2014which was nice, because Microserfs is pretty much my favorite Douglas Coupland book. (I have now read ALL of them! *sob* Well, except for the one written in Japanese and released only in Japan.) What surprised me is how much more cynical this book is. I mean, not that Microserfs is without cynicism, but there's an innocence to it, a wonder. I don't think anyone would have any trouble figuring out that jPod is the book written by the older man (and that's even without the authorial self-insertion stuff\u2014which I alternate between finding funny and being made deeply uncomfortable by). jPod is like Microserfs but without the hope for reinvention and redemption. I still enjoyed the book a lot\u2014it's really funny, and the parts that are just Ethan and his fellow jPodders goofing off and being geeky were great. But unlike Microserfs , the world of jPod is not one I would want to live in. It's cold there. ...more I used to love love love Coupland, back when I was a self-involved early-20s douchebag. Now that I am a self-involved early-30s douchebag, I don't think I do? I've put off reading this for years due to the career-low title of 'JPod' (urgh), and I was correct to do so, though maybe if I read it at the time, I might have enjoyed it? Anyway, saw this for 20p in a charity shop, so how could I say no? The plot: some dicks do some 'zany' things involving the 'zeitgeist' and gamer culture. The 'plot' mo I used to love love love Coupland, back when I was a self-involved early-20s douchebag. Now that I am a self-involved early-30s douchebag, I don't think I do? I've put off reading this for years due to the career-low title of 'JPod' (urgh), and I was correct to do so, though maybe if I read it at the time, I might have enjoyed it? Anyway, saw this for 20p in a charity shop, so how could I say no? The plot: some dicks do some 'zany' things involving the 'zeitgeist' and gamer culture. The 'plot' moves whimisically along, banal observations are made, the book ends. Coupland inserts himself as a character, and while this initially grates, I came to like him more than the other people in it, as he seemed aware of how shitty they were. There's pages and pages of things like pi to loads of decimal places, etc, and I'm just glad I'm on medication for my OCD or I would have had to read them. Christ, this stuff's a lot more palatable when it's Bret Easton Ellis and the characters are more endearingly loathsome. I feel old, but not as old as I perhaps need to be to recognise and enjoy and empathise with the banal indie-movie Braffian shits in this book. ...more Awesome! This is my first Coupland book - am anxious to read more. JPod follows the lives of five young co-workers at a large video game design company - working in a soul-less, mindless...but funky...corporate environment where they each stuggle with the shallowness of their worklives. One writes: \"We accept that a corporation determines our life's routines. It's the trade-off so that we don't have to be chronically unemployed creative types, and we know it. When we were younger, we'd at least Awesome! This is my first Coupland book - am anxious to read more. JPod follows the lives of five young co-workers at a large video game design company - working in a soul-less, mindless...but funky...corporate environment where they each stuggle with the shallowness of their worklives. One writes: \"We accept that a corporation determines our life's routines. It's the trade-off so that we don't have to be chronically unemployed creative types, and we know it. When we were younger, we'd at least make a show of not being fooled and leave copies of Adbusters on our desktops. After a few years it just doesn't matter.\" On that level, the story is dark and depressing. But Coupland is a humourist, somewhat like Vonnegut. JPod has an ensemble cast of completely wacky characters who face an ongoing series of bizarre and laughable work and non-work situations. And similar to reading Kafka, the social norms and patterns that can deaden our lives are transformed into fodder for a top-notch comedy. A wonderful read! ...more This book contains two kinds of material: 1. The parts that are just like Microserfs 2. The parts that are not as good as Microserfs The similarities are so pervasive and unlikely that it\u2019s hard to know what to make of it. There are some fun moments here; Coupland is still good at chronicling the garbagey undertow of our culture. At one point, for example, a character presents a revolting list of nonspecific flavors like \u201cranch\u201d and \u201carctic,\u201d and you realize how many products use these. But you c This book contains two kinds of material: 1. The parts that are just like Microserfs 2. The parts that are not as good as Microserfs The similarities are so pervasive and unlikely that it\u2019s hard to know what to make of it. There are some fun moments here; Coupland is still good at chronicling the garbagey undertow of our culture. At one point, for example, a character presents a revolting list of nonspecific flavors like \u201cranch\u201d and \u201carctic,\u201d and you realize how many products use these. But you could eventually make out a plot in Microserfs, and here there is just an ever-expanding muddle that, for all the ways Coupland tries to shock the reader, never feels like it has much of an effect on anyone. I think Microserfs actually had something to say about technology, malaise, and growing up, and I suspect that JPod ultimately doesn\u2019t. If reading Microserfs is an exercise in self-pity, reading JPod is an exercise in self-loathing. ...more The only reason I give this book 2 stars is because I found myself strangely thinking about it at random times of day, wondering what would happen next and if the book would ever redeem itself. Being an office worker at a software company for a greater part of my career thus far, I immediately thought I would identify with the narrative. Sadly, Coupland's attempts to pinpoint the twenty-something tech culture are lost in misguided buzzwords and off-target tech speak. Sorry Doug, Chrono Trigger wa The only reason I give this book 2 stars is because I found myself strangely thinking about it at random times of day, wondering what would happen next and if the book would ever redeem itself. Being an office worker at a software company for a greater part of my career thus far, I immediately thought I would identify with the narrative. Sadly, Coupland's attempts to pinpoint the twenty-something tech culture are lost in misguided buzzwords and off-target tech speak. Sorry Doug, Chrono Trigger was not a PlayStation game. Lastly, the copious amount of horribly ridiculous situational comedy is too much for even the cheesiest of TV networks. I'm really surprised this got picked up even by a backwards Canadian cable network. ...more I would normally find it difficult to write a review of a book I read a couple of years ago, but in this instance in regards to JPod , I find it easy. I say that because it is a book about me. I'm certain Douglas Copeland has never met me, nor I him, but he has captured me so completely in this book (down to my preferred room temperature) that I felt more so uncomfortable than anything else. I laughed to tears at the absurdness of the characters and I suppose myself. A hugging machine? The friend I would normally find it difficult to write a review of a book I read a couple of years ago, but in this instance in regards to JPod , I find it easy. I say that because it is a book about me. I'm certain Douglas Copeland has never met me, nor I him, but he has captured me so completely in this book (down to my preferred room temperature) that I felt more so uncomfortable than anything else. I laughed to tears at the absurdness of the characters and I suppose myself. A hugging machine? The friend who recommended the book to me thought I would benefit from having one. I didn't take offense. ...more", "Title": "JPod"},
