{"Comments": "Had any of the characters been even half as cool as this guy: ...<---F>I may have keep reading</---F>. Or to be more accurate I should say: I may have read it correctly . Which I didn\u2019t. Instead, I did this: *notices all the 5star reviews of <+++>Bitten</+++>* *clicks \u2018confirm order\u2019 button on BookDespository.com* *waits by mail box for about 40,000 years* *receives <+++>Bitten</+++>* *does happy dance like a happy thing in a happy place with a happy hat* *begins reading page one of Bitten* 18 minutes later: \u201cZZZZzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz Had any of the characters been even half as cool as this guy: ...I may have keep reading. Or to be more accurate I should say: I may have read it correctly . Which I didn\u2019t. Instead, I did this: *notices all the 5star reviews of Bitten* *clicks \u2018confirm order\u2019 button on BookDespository.com* *waits by mail box for about 40,000 years* *receives Bitten* *does happy dance like a happy thing in a happy place with a happy hat* *begins reading page one of Bitten* 18 minutes later: \u201cZZZZzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz....\u201d etc. Following day *continues reading Bitten* *fixes toothpicks to eyelids in order to avoid boredom-induced coma* Some time later. *has been reading this motha-effing story since the beginning of time. Assumes is on page 82,476* *looks at page number* \u201cPage 183! WTF!??\u201d *flips to final chapter. Absorbs general gist of things.* *curses all Goodreaders* ...more How can I write this review without sounding like I'm about to start stalking <---A>Kelley Armstrong</---A>? I loved this book. I loved all the characters in it. It was well written,<---M> with engaging</---M>, interesting characters. The plot was fast moving and interesting. I never got bored, I never felt like it was dragging and the story was a PLEASURE to read. This is what reading should be! Turning from page to page, absolutely and completely emotionally invested in the characters and feeling like you're right there, How can I write this review without sounding like I'm about to start stalking Kelley Armstrong? I loved this book. I loved all the characters in it. It was well written, with engaging, interesting characters. The plot was fast moving and interesting. I never got bored, I never felt like it was dragging and the story was a PLEASURE to read. This is what reading should be! Turning from page to page, absolutely and completely emotionally invested in the characters and feeling like you're right there, experiencing things through their eyes, their fingers and their brains even. This book, to me, equals The Hunger Games and that's VERY high praise. I think I may actually enjoy it more than the Fever Series - though I don't want to go saying anything I can't take back! I'm off to read the next books, hoping against hope that this one wasn't a fluke and that they are as well written and incredible as this one was! If they're not, I think my heart is going to break! ...more You know when you don't really expect to like a book based on the fact that you're prejudiced to its contents? For example, thanks to Twilight, I am completely Team Vampire (and I'm terribly ashamed at having brought Twilight up, trust me) so anything Werewolf-ish automatically sets off some inner resentment. Knowing this book was about werewolves just made me go 'blegh!' but I was suddenly determined to give it a chance, and so I did. Oh. My. God. FANTASTIC . I was utterly absorbed by this book You know when you don't really expect to like a book based on the fact that you're prejudiced to its contents? For example, thanks to Twilight, I am completely Team Vampire (and I'm terribly ashamed at having brought Twilight up, trust me) so anything Werewolf-ish automatically sets off some inner resentment. Knowing this book was about werewolves just made me go 'blegh!' but I was suddenly determined to give it a chance, and so I did. Oh. My. God. FANTASTIC . I was utterly absorbed by this book from the first page, completely mesmerised by the characters playing out on the pages before me. I was mentally crying as I neared the final page, torn between needing to finish and wanting it to last forever and ever. This book is thrilling, entertaining, hilarious (it had me in hysterics!), steamy, sexy, tragic... it's honestly just a rollercoaster of adjectives. Elena is the most amusing narrator I've come across in a long time, whether she means to be or not. She is truly a unique voice and I wished that Armstrong had continued the series from Elena's point of view because I'm IN LOVE with her. Really, even when I wanted to strangle her for stupidity, I loved her. I could say that about Clay, too (GOD, I loved Clay, even when I hated him). These are those rare types of characters you never want to let go once you've found them. Honestly, I could ramble for ages but I'm trying to contain myself. Trust me, if you have any doubts about reading this, just push past them and give this book a go. You can't go wrong. ...more BITTEN is my favorite first installment of an urban fantasy series. EVER. Just sayin'. ;) 5+++ stars This might be the best first-in-series I've ever read. I have favorite series, and this is definitely one of them, but most of the time my favorite book in the series is not the first one. This one is. I love Elena. I love Clayton. I love them together and HATE them separated. I love their issues, I love their issues getting resolved even more. I can't think of a single think about this book that BITTEN is my favorite first installment of an urban fantasy series. EVER. Just sayin'. ;) 5+++ stars This might be the best first-in-series I've ever read. I have favorite series, and this is definitely one of them, but most of the time my favorite book in the series is not the first one. This one is. I love Elena. I love Clayton. I love them together and HATE them separated. I love their issues, I love their issues getting resolved even more. I can't think of a single think about this book that I don't like. ALSO--I think Clayton Danvers might be my all-time favorite book boyfriend: 1. He's a friggin' HOT werewolf. 2. He has no problem being in a relationship with a strong female. 3. He is the epitome of all things loyal. 4. He would do anything , A-N-Y-T-H-I-N-G to keep Elena safe/rescue her. I'm talking you'd have to kill him to stop him, and he's damn hard to kill. 5. He mates for life. 6. He's a good dad. 7. He's refreshingly forthright. I could go on (and on, and on). I love him more than Curran Lennart <----I didn't even know his last name until I just looked it up. I love him more than Trent Kalamack. More than Eric Northman. More than Ricky-bo and Cuffs Alistair. More than Edward and Peeta. Get it? ...more A lot of authors tend to rely on supernatural abilities to make their fantasy and paranormal characters more appealing to us foolish mortals who seek our escapes amongst their pages. But Kelley Armstrong\u2019s werewolves in Bitten must rely on grit and personality alone, because aside from having the ability to Change their shape, they don\u2019t have any bizarre powers. They aren\u2019t immortal, they can be killed just as easily as any other non-supernatural creature and it doesn\u2019t take a silver bullet to d A lot of authors tend to rely on supernatural abilities to make their fantasy and paranormal characters more appealing to us foolish mortals who seek our escapes amongst their pages. But Kelley Armstrong\u2019s werewolves in Bitten must rely on grit and personality alone, because aside from having the ability to Change their shape, they don\u2019t have any bizarre powers. They aren\u2019t immortal, they can be killed just as easily as any other non-supernatural creature and it doesn\u2019t take a silver bullet to do it\u2014they could be gored by a deer, hit by a truck or even strangled or have their throats slit by a human psychopath. The abilities Armstrong\u2019s werewolves were granted were surprisingly believable, even without that total suspension of reality that is required to read a book about werewolves or vampires or the Fey. They were stronger than the average human, able to run harder longer, bench press more and do more pushups. And they could heal faster, but healing wasn\u2019t an instantaneous process, it still required rest and time. And even though there was a slight psychic connection between the alpha and his pack, it was no more eerie than the close bond between a set of twins or best girlfriends or a married couple so in tune to each other that they frequently find themselves dialing the phone to call the other at the exact same time. It was Armstrong\u2019s ability to subtly draw you into the werewolves\u2019 world that sold me hook, line and sinker. Like so many others who read urban fantasy and paranormal romance, werewolves have not been my favorite characters. Vampires, yes. Other fantastical beasts, erm, okay, but only if there\u2019s a vampire somewhere in the book. But werewolves??? Eh. Pass. Fortunately, the high ratings this book has received practically forced me into giving this book a shot. And frankly, I loved it!! <---C>Elena Michaels</---C> is one of the most intriguing heroines I\u2019ve encountered in quite some time. She is the only female werewolf in existence and in the history of the Pack. She was raised human and after losing her parents in a car crash, was in and out of foster homes for her entire young life. She suffered the unwanted attentions of her foster fathers and grew up wanting nothing more than to have that normal human life: a good career, a caring husband, a home\u2026 But when she was bitten by a werewolf during college, everything changed and her dreams for a normal life were ripped away from her because suddenly she was faced with violent urges, a ravenous appetite and the need to periodically change form and run as a wolf through the night. Obviously the latter is hard to do in a big city like Toronto, but after gaining some control over her other half, Elena tries to make it work. She takes a job as a journalist with the newspaper, has a wonderful human boyfriend named Phillip who is kind and considerate and buys her flowers, and she quietly appeases the werewolf inside her by sneaking in-between meals at street vendors so her live-in human boyfriend doesn\u2019t notice her above-average appetite and she sneaks out of the apartment at 2 a.m. to stalk and scare local security guards\u2014a sad excuse for an all-out deer hunt, but she makes do. But then she receives an urgent message from Jeremy, the Pack leader, and Elena can\u2019t ignore it: her Pack is in danger. Elena leaves Toronto and flies to a remote area in upstate New York where her Pack is headquartered. And there she finds Clay, just as she left him, waiting for her, still in love with her. Like Elena, Clay is also a dark, tortured hero. And the relationship Armstrong weaves for the two is both passionate and painful and oh-so wonderful, and the fact that the relationship was second to the urban fantasy plot of an all-out werewolf battle for territory didn\u2019t make it any less satisfying. No spoilers here, so I won't say anything else, except that I highly, highly recommend! ...more This one's been hanging around for a while, since it was recommended to me sometime last year. I saw that kiwiria loved it and remembered that I had it, so thought I should get onto it sooner rather than later. To be honest, the fact that it's about werewolves put me off. I greatly enjoyed Kerri Arthur's Riley Jensen Guardian series (the main character is a werewolf), and Kresley Cole has some wonderful lycanthrope characters whom I love, but generally they don't hold the attraction that vampire This one's been hanging around for a while, since it was recommended to me sometime last year. I saw that kiwiria loved it and remembered that I had it, so thought I should get onto it sooner rather than later. To be honest, the fact that it's about werewolves put me off. I greatly enjoyed Kerri Arthur's Riley Jensen Guardian series (the main character is a werewolf), and Kresley Cole has some wonderful lycanthrope characters whom I love, but generally they don't hold the attraction that vampires do. Well, I really should re-think that now. Elena Michaels is an orphan with a horrible past of foster families and abusive foster fathers since her parents died in a car accident when she was little. Meeting and falling in love with Clay, an esteemed anthropologist doing a stint of teaching at the University of Toronto, was the first time she could be more herself, and he was the first person she could be honest and open with. Until she's bitten by a werewolf and becomes the first female werewolf ever, and forced into a life she did not want, with the Pack. Ten years later, she's carving a human life for herself in Toronto as a journalist, living with her boyfriend Philip, and forcing herself not to Change until she can't help it. When she does, she goes out in the early hours of the morning and chases security guards in the car parks, and rabbits in the ravines. Her attempt at fitting in with humans comes to a jarring halt when the Pack leader, Jeremy, asks her to return to Stonehaven in New York State. There's a killer on the loose in the town who's obviously a non-Pack werewolf, a mutt, leaving the mutilated bodies on Pack territory and bringing the police to their doorstep. Returning to Stonehaven, Elena finds herself fitting into old patterns without fear of exposure or judgement. She still yearns to be human, or at least, to fit in in the human world, but the situation is becoming more threatening and her Pack-brothers are losing their lives: and the enemy wants her. While the Prologue was necessary in setting up the main character and narrator, Elena, and it worked well written in present tense - gives it that timeless quality - I found it a bit boring and was worried I wouldn't be able to get through the book. It wasn't long before I was completely riveted though. It comes down to Elena herself, I think. She's tough, she's bitchy at times, she's smart, yet she has this aloof, lonely quality that adds a touch of vulnerability and really made me feel for her without being told to. The way she describes her past and how she dealt with it, the way she over-thinks her way through the world of humans, concentrating and always thinking, what would a human do? (Even though she used to be human, she's not anymore.) Then there's her relationship with Clay, which is what really drives the whole story. Clay is an interesting character with at least three noticeable sides: cold killer; eager, childlike boy with a wealth of feeling; and borderline genius. He's moody but predictable, dangerous and lethal but oh so loving and loveable. I just loved the fact that he wasn't easy to sum up, that he was complicated. More than that, though, the plot was exciting and even though, after the prologue, the rest of the book is written in past tense, it still has that \"now\" feeling where the narrator, Elena, isn't giving hints as to what happened later, but narrates as if she has no idea either. That gives the story a great deal of suspense and tension. For a debut novel, this is a bloody good novel. The writing quality is very high, the character development is wonderful, the plot is absorbing, never boring, and the moments of humour are very adult and speak to a level of intelligence that most popular fiction aims below. It's an intelligent, mature book, very hard to put down, and I'm very keen to read the second book featuring Elena, Stolen . ...more I'm sick with a cold/flu thing so I'm not sure how good my judgement is right now, but I definitely found my new book boyfriend here. His name is Clay and he's a sociopathic werewolf. He hates humans and kills them without remorse. But, he is also willing to kill anyone for the woman he loves. Isn't that romantic? He's so sweet! aww, you are kinda cute with your little noseless face, aren't you? So, this book is about the only female werewolf in existence, Elena. She's not happy being a furry and I'm sick with a cold/flu thing so I'm not sure how good my judgement is right now, but I definitely found my new book boyfriend here. His name is Clay and he's a sociopathic werewolf. He hates humans and kills them without remorse. But, he is also willing to kill anyone for the woman he loves. Isn't that romantic? He's so sweet! aww, you are kinda cute with your little noseless face, aren't you? So, this book is about the only female werewolf in existence, Elena. She's not happy being a furry and left the pack to live a human life. She found a nice mellow man and is trying to pretend that she is a nice mellow woman. But, you can't keep a good furry down! Yeah, the human experience may be a little over-rated... Elena gets called back to the pack to help hunt down some rogue werewolves who are killing people. Being back home reminds her of her wild side, plus there is the matter of a very alluring sociopath, so... go get your freak on, girl! ...more I first read this book when it came out and loved it. It was one of the few books I'd read that focused predominantly on werewolves. I've read MANY since and so I went back and reread this because I was curious if it would hold up against the masses. Oh boy. It did. Let me just say that out of all paranormal books I've read, Clay has to be one of the sexiest, if not the sexiest male character. I'm not sure why exactly, maybe it's because nothing about him is really overdone, a lot of his appeal I first read this book when it came out and loved it. It was one of the few books I'd read that focused predominantly on werewolves. I've read MANY since and so I went back and reread this because I was curious if it would hold up against the masses. Oh boy. It did. Let me just say that out of all paranormal books I've read, Clay has to be one of the sexiest, if not the sexiest male character. I'm not sure why exactly, maybe it's because nothing about him is really overdone, a lot of his appeal is in his silence. He doesn't have to build a monument to himself and then stand on top of it screaming that he's an alpha like some characters. With him, you just know it. And you want it. BAD . ...more A warning to the reader, don't pick this book up if you cannot devote hours to reading it. You will be completely absorbed into this tale of a woman who happens to be a werewolf, and isn't completely happy about it. Elena is a fascinating protagonist, not all bad, but not all good either. She has an animal side to her that she has suppressed, but when dead bodies start turning up, killed by what is clearly a werewolf, she can no longer hide from her werewolf origins. Another thing that makes thi A warning to the reader, don't pick this book up if you cannot devote hours to reading it. You will be completely absorbed into this tale of a woman who happens to be a werewolf, and isn't completely happy about it. Elena is a fascinating protagonist, not all bad, but not all good either. She has an animal side to her that she has suppressed, but when dead bodies start turning up, killed by what is clearly a werewolf, she can no longer hide from her werewolf origins. Another thing that makes this book so fantastic is Clayton Danvers. That man is dangerous. You wonder how Elena can stay mad at him, although he really did her dirty (you have to read it to find out). The pack dynamics are interesting. As the only female werewolf, Elena is cherished like a beloved sister and daughter. But to Clay she is and will always be his mate, even if she runs away again. If you are looking for an urban fantasy book written like mainstream fiction, or a good fiction book that is very much urban fantasy, or a really incredible werewolf novel, you would probably just love this book. ...more Out of all of the shifter books I have read this has got be the be the best one I have ever read. I was starting to think that shifters may not be for me, but wow can Kelly Armstrong write. I was a little worried about this series because I wasn\u2019t too fond of her young adult series. But I can definitely say I will be continuing with the Women of the Otherworld series. I am highly addicted to some Elena and Clay. \"You forget, darling. I am the local psychopath.\u201d She stared at him. \u201cOh my God, it\u2019 Out of all of the shifter books I have read this has got be the be the best one I have ever read. I was starting to think that shifters may not be for me, but wow can Kelly Armstrong write. I was a little worried about this series because I wasn\u2019t too fond of her young adult series. But I can definitely say I will be continuing with the Women of the Otherworld series. I am highly addicted to some Elena and Clay. \"You forget, darling. I am the local psychopath.\u201d She stared at him. \u201cOh my God, it\u2019s scary you noticed that.\" We have Elena the only female werewolf in existence. A long time ago she fell in love and was engaged to be married to Clay the love of her life, but while meeting with Jeremy the Alpha of the pack Clay is in. Clay turned into a wolf and bit Elena. And thus turning her into one. And Elena was never the same again. Elena gets called back to the back to help solve a problem that could result in a danger to all werewolves including her. I absolutely loved this book to death. I loved Elena and Clay. They are like the perfect couple ever! While Elena is back for a while trying to solve this problem for the pack, Clay is making good use of this time trying to win her back. I know we get glimpses into the future of what happened to these two concerning the bite and all of what she went through when she got bitten, but I was a little disappointed to learn that we didn\u2019t get anything about how Elena and Clay first met and what let up to the engagement and bite. But then I learned that there is a book about that. So, yea. can\u2019t wait for that. \"What's this?\" Nick said. \"Bedtime?\" No one answered him. I kept my eyes closed. You look positively content, Clayton,\" Nick continued, thumping down on the floor. \"That wouldn't have anything to do with the fact that Elena is cuddled up with you, is it?\" \"It's cold in here,\" I murmured. Doesn't feel cold.\" It's cold,\" Clay growled. I could start a fire.\" I could start one too,\" Clay said. \"With your clothes. Before you get them off.\" I loved everyone in the pack. The pack, Alpha is very kind and cold to me at the same time. I know being an alpha you have to maintain control and be cold sometimes because it is a big job, but wow. I think Jeremy is wonderful alpha and I really hope we get to learn more about him as time goes on. He has a kindness towards Elena where you can see him as a father figure for her. We also have Nick, Antonio, Logan, the whole gang. I loved the pack. They\u2019re like such a great family together. In the book Elena is still having trouble coming to terms with her being a werewolf and I loved her dealing with that, figuring out who she is and by the end of the book finally excepting everything. She has come a long way. My favorite part of the book is Elena and Clay and I just have to say I WANT MORE! I can\u2019t wait to read book two in the series, Stolen and find out what happens next in the Women of the Otherworld Series. If you are a big time shifter fan you will devour this book. I highly recommend this book to any urban fantasy fan. More of my reviews at Mystifying Paranormal Reviews ...more #41 Bitten by Kelley Armstrong rating 4 of 5 436 pp This is the literary equivalent of eating potato chips. Not terribly filling or nutritious but lots of fun, and it sure is hard to stop once you get started. I have already read the author's third and fourth books, Dime Store Magic and Industrial Magic and I have to say I wish I'd started here, at the beginning. Note to self: read a series in order! Regardless of when you manage to pick them up at the used bookstore, forbear until you can begin at #41 Bitten by Kelley Armstrong rating 4 of 5 436 pp This is the literary equivalent of eating potato chips. Not terribly filling or nutritious but lots of fun, and it sure is hard to stop once you get started. I have already read the author's third and fourth books, Dime Store Magic and Industrial Magic and I have to say I wish I'd started here, at the beginning. Note to self: read a series in order! Regardless of when you manage to pick them up at the used bookstore, forbear until you can begin at the beginning, otherwise you're just plain missing out. Bitten is pretty unique. There are quite a few books out there with strong, female Witches or demon-fighters or vampire slayers as protagonists, but not many where the heroine is a bonafide werewolf. Actually, Elena is more of an antihero. She's not really a very nice person; that's why I like her! She's funny, grumpy, sarcastic, and has very little compunction about ripping up a rapist or pedophile. She also gets to engage in a couple of pretty hot love scenes (in human form, don't worry). Neither these parts nor the violence are overly graphic. I'd say this series would be OK for a 14 or 15 year old, since they see much worse than this on TV, but parents please use your own discretion with your own kids! I think what I like best about this book is that Armstrong's take on werewolves is pretty sensible. Their need to Change is a biological function that is either genetic or contracted by being bitten. As one character puts it, it's \"about as much fun as having a bowel movement.\" Well, he doesn't actually say \"bowel movement,\" the vocabulary is definitely PG-13. No need for silver bullets, either. Armstrong's werewolves can be killed in any manner that would kill any other living creature, including knives, regular bullets, or being run over by a truck. They don't magically return to human form after death, either. A dead werewolf is just roadkill. And human predators (see aforementioned rapists and pedophiles) are far scarier than anything the supernatural can produce. All in all, a highly entertaining read. I'm in the mood to open another bag of chips and start right in on Stolen, the next book in the series. ...more Well, I think it\u2019s very safe to say that I am not a fan of Kelley Armstrong\u2019s writing style. Too bad, she\u2019s very popular. But I just could not get into this and I tend to love Urban Fantasy. So what happened? Well, for starters I think I am starting to tire of the Werewolf plot in books\u2026 you\u2019d think it would be the Vampire storyline, but no. I get so bored by reading all of the pack dynamics and posturing. As a result there\u2019s only a few shining examples of Werewolf fiction done extremely well for Well, I think it\u2019s very safe to say that I am not a fan of Kelley Armstrong\u2019s writing style. Too bad, she\u2019s very popular. But I just could not get into this and I tend to love Urban Fantasy. So what happened? Well, for starters I think I am starting to tire of the Werewolf plot in books\u2026 you\u2019d think it would be the Vampire storyline, but no. I get so bored by reading all of the pack dynamics and posturing. As a result there\u2019s only a few shining examples of Werewolf fiction done extremely well for me \u2013 Maggie Stiefvater, Andrea Cremer, and Sisters Red were also quite good. Though, admittedly, the Werewolves were the baddies, not the goodies. I\u2019m just not big on Werewolves being the only preternatural element. They don\u2019t do it for me to carry a story. That said it\u2019s a good thing I am planning on reading this soon. Le eyeroll. Besides that Armstrong\u2019s writing style does very little for me. I read The Summoning before and I was underwhelmed. Her writing does not compel me, does not keep my attention glued to the pages. She spends way to long establishing ideas for my tastes (sometimes a whole page devoted to one paragraph). And the inner dialogue of Elena does not makes her sympathetic to me. I didn\u2019t like her as a narrator, and (from what Armstrong fans and friends of mine tell me) she\u2019s supposed to be the best narrator of the whole series?! Incredulous. I was bored the whole first chunk of the book and, as a result, didn\u2019t even crack my customary 75 page rule. Ouch. 1 out of 5 stars. - review courtesy of www.bibliopunkkreads.com ...more Apart from the fact that only Jericho Barrons could have rescued Bitten from a pool of mindboggling dullness, Armstrong's werewolves just didn't match my expectations *sulkily stripes away raw animalism, carnality, pack troubles, alpha fights, angst, werewolvish sex - whatever that may be..*. I actually caught myself longing for the werewolves in Blood & Chocolate , trailer trashy and imperfect as they were. Wouldn't surprise me if the pack in Bitten grows organic tomatoes for a living too. I' Apart from the fact that only Jericho Barrons could have rescued Bitten from a pool of mindboggling dullness, Armstrong's werewolves just didn't match my expectations *sulkily stripes away raw animalism, carnality, pack troubles, alpha fights, angst, werewolvish sex - whatever that may be..*. I actually caught myself longing for the werewolves in Blood & Chocolate , trailer trashy and imperfect as they were. Wouldn't surprise me if the pack in Bitten grows organic tomatoes for a living too. I'm probably just bitter though, everyone else on Goodreads seems to be bitten and smitten. ...more Elena Michaels is the most idiotic and annoying main character ever. As if it's not bad enough that she's the stereotypical urban fantasy heroine (hates being \"different\", continually tries to be \"normal\", etc.), she's also just plain -stupid-. The spends the entire book swearing on her life that she doesn't love Clay (ex-fiance, turned her into a werewolf, blah blah blah), and yet is cuddling up with him and spending time with him the whole time, DESPITE the fact that she keeps saying how much Elena Michaels is the most idiotic and annoying main character ever. As if it's not bad enough that she's the stereotypical urban fantasy heroine (hates being \"different\", continually tries to be \"normal\", etc.), she's also just plain -stupid-. The spends the entire book swearing on her life that she doesn't love Clay (ex-fiance, turned her into a werewolf, blah blah blah), and yet is cuddling up with him and spending time with him the whole time, DESPITE the fact that she keeps saying how much she cares about her human boyfriend back home. And then, whenever Clay tries to get serious about her and him getting back together, she completely shuts him out and shouts at him for no reason and doesn'tlisten to a word he says. If the story hadn't revolved around Elena Michaels, the book would've been passable. But since it did revolve around her, it was awful. Full review: http://persyandarty.blogspot.com/2012... ...more Bitten is more than just a werewolf book. Yes, it follows the story of a werewolf named Elena and the trials and tribulations of her pack. There's plenty of action and sex. But what is so exceptional about this book is the complex emotions invoked by our main character. Elena never wanted to be werewolf. She had a miserable childhood, shuffling through the foster system, enduring horrific abuse. She survived, clinging to the idea that she could make a normal life for herself; grow up and create t Bitten is more than just a werewolf book. Yes, it follows the story of a werewolf named Elena and the trials and tribulations of her pack. There's plenty of action and sex. But what is so exceptional about this book is the complex emotions invoked by our main character. Elena never wanted to be werewolf. She had a miserable childhood, shuffling through the foster system, enduring horrific abuse. She survived, clinging to the idea that she could make a normal life for herself; grow up and create the kind of family she never had. But in college, her fiance Clay, took away her dream of normalcy, when he bit her and turned her into werewolf. That was about a decade ago and she still hasn't forgiven him. Instead, she's abandoned her pack and started a new life. She hides what she is and works to pass herself off a normal woman, especially to her live-in boyfriend, Phillip. But she is forced to return to the pack when her alpha, Jeremy, calls her for help. There is a rogue wolf in pack territory and they need Elena to help sniff him out. Clay is there, making matters more complicated. And as the story progresses and the rogue-wolf plot becomes more dangerous and deadly, we see Elena fighting the pack, Clay, and herself and she tries to figure out where she truly fits in. Armstrong makes it easy to see both sides of Elena's warring emotions. The hurt and resentment for Clay is understandable in the context of her horrific life. Yet, at the same time, it's so apparent that these two have something epic between them. Clay loves her so much, and that is even more meaningful when compared with how little he values almost anyone else. Elena and Jeremy are his whole world. And it's clear that no matter how hurt Elena was by his bite, her heart will never be free of him. He is an undeniable part of her. Her relationship with Jeremy is almost as fascinating. She is so insecure about his feelings as he remains inscrutable. He gives her orders that on some levels feel cruel, but when you look more closely, you can understand why he makes the decisions he does. And even if it's not clear to her, it's clear to me, that he loves her. Elena's relationship with Phillip definitely muddies the waters. It's hard not to be a little turned off that she jumps from his bed to Clay's without a shred of guilt. I suppose that shows where her heart lies, but it paints her in an unflattering light. Armstrong makes no bones that Elena is far from perfect, but perhaps that makes her a better heroine. There is a lot of action in the book. Several people die and not just fringe-characters. I thought the story arc was exciting and took some unexpected directions, which I enjoyed quite a bit. This was a great introduction to the Otherworld series. 4 1/2 stars. ...more 1/8/2014 UPDATE I finished this freakin book! YES, I read it all on my third attempt! I feel f*cking proud right now! The most weird thing is that I didn't hate it. You would think that since I'd already tried the book 2 times and couldn't finish it either of them I would hate it. But I didn't. The writing was decent, the characters interesting if not exactly mind-blowing and the plot pretty original for its genre. And I will admit here that I read it mostly because I've watched the show and I like 1/8/2014 UPDATE I finished this freakin book! YES, I read it all on my third attempt! I feel f*cking proud right now! The most weird thing is that I didn't hate it. You would think that since I'd already tried the book 2 times and couldn't finish it either of them I would hate it. But I didn't. The writing was decent, the characters interesting if not exactly mind-blowing and the plot pretty original for its genre. And I will admit here that I read it mostly because I've watched the show and I liked it. I have a thing for crappy TV-shows, don't judge. I don't think I'll be reading the second any time soon but just the fact that I finished this makes me really happy! I'll up my rating to 2.5. 18/2/2014 UPDATE Of all the awesome PNR and UF series out there this is the one that gets to turn into a TV show?? ...more I really liked this book. It was a bit slow at the beginning but once I got over that I was completely hooked. We are introduced into a new werewolf world with this series, one that has not been described in any other series I have read so far. Our heroine is Elena. She was just a normal girl who made the mistake of falling in love with her teacher, a young hot and sexy blonde who had her crazy in love since they first met. I mean, what would you have done in Elena's place? I know if I was in he I really liked this book. It was a bit slow at the beginning but once I got over that I was completely hooked. We are introduced into a new werewolf world with this series, one that has not been described in any other series I have read so far. Our heroine is Elena. She was just a normal girl who made the mistake of falling in love with her teacher, a young hot and sexy blonde who had her crazy in love since they first met. I mean, what would you have done in Elena's place? I know if I was in her place just the same.But then things got terribly wrong once she got bitten by this wolf. She woke up and immediately realized things were wrong, very wrong. First she is alone with this guy (Jaime) who keeps telling her she has been bitten by Clay (the teacher) and that she is now a werewolf. She doesn't wanna believe this but the evidence is right there in her. The cool thing about this book is that being a werewolf is not nice, it's the worst thing that could have happened to Elena. She just can't control it. Not any other women survived the change, she has been the only one so far and is suffering intolerable pain while being extremely confused trying to analyze things. She just knows she has to escape From this Jaime who keeps telling her that to stay with him and the pack is the best thing she can do so far. But will she listen to him? Or will she leran by the hard way Jaime was right? I'm not gonna say anything else about the plot because I don't wanna spoil it, I just wanted to give you all a pick inside this great and different series. I loved to see Elena struggle to understand everything in this new world and Clay trying to make Elena understand this was the right thing for her. How will he make to get Elena's love back after what he did to her? Well you have to read it to know guys,lol. Enjoy! ...more *Forse spoiler, ma \u00e8 una storia cos\u00ec assurda e brutta che non vi perdete niente se pure non l'avete letto* Quanto \u00e8 brutto questo libro da uno a 'tanto'? TANTISSIMO. OLTREMODO. VERSO L'INFINITO E OLTRE. Il libro \u00e8 una porcheria aberrante e non mi capacito del perch\u00e9 io lo possegga in primo luogo (cartaceo. Rendo la disperazione??), perch\u00e9 abbia deciso di leggerlo e soprattutto perch\u00e9 abbia deciso di arrivare alla fine nonostante il BIG NO che trasudava gi\u00e0 dal prologo (che \u00e8 il sonno vero: probabi *Forse spoiler, ma \u00e8 una storia cos\u00ec assurda e brutta che non vi perdete niente se pure non l'avete letto* Quanto \u00e8 brutto questo libro da uno a 'tanto'? TANTISSIMO. OLTREMODO. VERSO L'INFINITO E OLTRE. Il libro \u00e8 una porcheria aberrante e non mi capacito del perch\u00e9 io lo possegga in primo luogo (cartaceo. Rendo la disperazione??), perch\u00e9 abbia deciso di leggerlo e soprattutto perch\u00e9 abbia deciso di arrivare alla fine nonostante il BIG NO che trasudava gi\u00e0 dal prologo (che \u00e8 il sonno vero: probabilmente la Armstrong lo brevetter\u00e0 come rimedio mondiale e celestiale contro l'insonnia..). La storia parte in modo esasperatamente lento come dicevo e il guizzo di vita a me non \u00e8 mai arrivato.. Penso che mi sia venuta una paresi al collo a forza di trovare posizioni strane pur di non addormentarmi!! Io poi dico ma l'originalit\u00e0 della storia DOV'E', DI GRAZIA? Li chiamiamo licantropi invece di vampiri, ambientiamo la storia in Canada e non in America (circa, a quanto ho capito la maggior parte della storia prende piede vicino New York), creiamo una protagonista cazzuta (... Ma parliamone eh. Ironia mode: ON) invece che una rincoglionita rara ma.. Vabb\u00e8 ci siamo, il libro \u00e8 inconsistente, stupido e idiota proprio come tutti gli altri che ho letto sul genere. Un grande blob informe senza arte n\u00e9 parte, dove il lettore scaltrissimo - pane e volpe a pranzo e cena, mica baubaumiciomicio - pu\u00f2 prevedere l'esito della storia e delle dinamiche gi\u00e0 dalla trama, cosicch\u00e8 pu\u00f2 prendere, andare a pesca e seguire comunque la storia senza traumi. Il primo grande problema, che a questo punto sembra essere il marchio di fabbrica del genere, \u00e8 una protagonista nell'ordine: deficiente, cretina, rincoglionita, squallida e cos\u00ec antipatica che i pollici ti prudono da morire; personalmente avrei voluto prendere qualsiasi cosa presente nella mia stanza e tirargliela addosso, cercando di colpirla. Non contenta, penso che una bella padellata ben assestata sulla nuca avrebbe in parte sedato la necessit\u00e0 di menare le mani -_- La scena idilliaca della storia si apre con lei - lupo mannaro - che vive e lavora a Toronto con il suo fidanzato. Avete presente le famiglie del mulino bianco, tutti maledettamente perfetti e felici? Ecco, Philip ne \u00e8 membro onorario, di quelli che hanno saccottini e crostatine aggratise per il resto della loro vita e li chiamano per paesi per raccontare di quanto la vita sia bella, stupenda, e meravigliosa. (*Con possibilit\u00e0 di serata davanti al fuoco con la chitarra per cantare tutti insieme le gioie della vita*). Ecco, lui \u00e8 bello, buono, dolce, premuroso, gentile, intelligente, con un'ottima famiglia buona e cara, attento, felice, discreto, tollerante e.. LEVISSIMO. Capito, no? Di quelli che nemmeno se ci conquistasse una razza aliena potremmo sperare di vederne uno.. Vabb\u00e9, dicevamo.. Ma Elena viene richiamata dal Branco che ha lasciato due anni prima per un tragico motivo (... Ma io so che voi lettori non vi siete lasciati fregare da questa frase palesemente falsa, visto che a quanto pare le tragedie paventate da questi libri solitamente si dimostrano essere un'unghia spezzata *Guardaaaaaa! E adesso?? Si \u00e8 rovinato tutto lo smaltooooo* o il non aver trovato i sandali in sconto) per una questione urgente e nonostante si fosse ripromessa che non avrebbe pi\u00f9 avuto a che fare con loro (vedasi motivo cretino di cui sopra), capisce che a Jeremy, l'Alfa del gruppo, \"glielo doveva\" (ma che tenerezza quando cercano di convincersi di una cosa dando una spiegazione che dire supercazzola \u00e8 fargli un complimento?? E tu l\u00ec col sopracciglio alzato che arriva fino ai capelli e a dire: \"Ma mi stai prendendo in giro? -_-\"). Indovinate qui chi c'\u00e8? a) Cappuccetto Rosso che ha capito fosse pi\u00f9 remunerativo allearsi con i lupi piuttosto che sgobbare e portare la torta alla nonna ingrata b) Il prezzemolo, perch\u00e9 \u00e8 dappertutto c) Il suo ex fidanzato fighissimo (e licantropo) d) Britney Spears senza nessun motivo apparente Se la vostra risposta \u00e8 C, avete vinto un concerto di Britney con degustazione di torta offertavi da Cappuccetto Rosso e un omaggio di prezzemolo essiccato. Esattamente, il focoso ex che PERDINDIRINDINA! CHI SE LO ASPETTAVA!!! \u00c8 colui che, dieci anni prima, l\u2019ha tradita e\u2026 L\u2019ha trasformata in licantropo. MA DAIIII! Un plot twist del genere io proprio non lo avevo mai sentito! Credo che la Armstrong vinca a mani basse il premio \u201cstupisci il lettore\u201d 2015.. Ero l\u00ec con le palpitazioni, l\u2019eccitazione a mille, le trombette per far festa.. L\u2019autrice s\u00ec che sa come sconvolgere il lettore! Ma tornando a noi.. visto che siete bravi e vi vedo preparati, aumentiamo il livello di difficolt\u00e0 delle domande; una volta nella tenuta, Elena: a) metter\u00e0 tante corna al povero Philip quante sono le stelle nel cielo (e non solo nella Via Lattea eh\u2026 Nell\u2019intero universo) b) sar\u00e0 fedele, buona e giusta c) si manger\u00e0 il prezzemolo d) si manger\u00e0 Cappuccetto Rosso. Esatto, miei cari. In quanto lupo.. Manger\u00e0 Cappuccetto Rosso :D Nah scherzo.. La seconda notte che si trova in compagnia di Clay, dopo aver sfiancato il lettore con \u201clo odio\u201d, \u201clo detesto\u201d, \u201c\u2018sto stronzo\u201d, \u201c\u2018sto pezzente\u201d, \u201cma guarda te\u201d, \u201cma chi lo vuole\u201d, \u201cnon provare nemmeno a rivolgermi la parola\u201d, \u201cpussa via\u201d e VIA STEREOTIPANDO , i due si lasciano sopraffare e fanno sesso come due animali (il degrado di questa scena \u00e8 direttamente proporzionale all\u2019idea originale della Armstrong di credere di star scrivendo una scena hot e piccante. No amore, \u00e8 solo tanto tanto tanto triste.), senza che Elena si ricordi minimamente di avere un uomo fantastico che l\u2019aspetta a casa fiducioso e felice; dopo il fattaccio, la baldracca se ne esce con \u201cSono una persona fedele di natura (\u2026 La poor Elena era evidentemente assente quando a scuola hanno spiegato la contraddizione), non tradirei mai Philip con altre persona, ma Clay non conta perch\u00e9 oh, il licantropazzo bonazzo, vuoi mettere?\u201d Ecco, forse pi\u00f9 della cosa in s\u00e9, del tradimento avvenuto senza il minimo rimorso o pensiero.. La cosa che pi\u00f9 mi ha disgustato e inferocito \u00e8 il modo in cui lei si senta nel giusto e di come non abbia fatto nulla di male. MA SEI CRETINA!! Vi risparmio lo svolgimento della storia perch\u00e9 \u00e8 di una tristezza rara e me la prender\u00f2 ancora un po\u2019 con Elena. Elena \u00e8 \u2013 povera crista \u2013 una deficiente fatta e finita. Il bello \u00e8 che lei razionalmente da una spiegazione a tutto ma.. non capisce veramente niente. Fa delle supposizioni imbarazzanti, distorce la realt\u00e0 ed \u00e8 maledettamente isterica.. Per farvi un esempio della sua follia, immaginatevi questa situazione (teorica eh, Elena \u00e8 una cos\u00ec brava ragazza d\u2019altronde..): Elena convive con un certo Philip, ma fa sesso selvaggio con Clay; quando Jeremy, il suo ipotetico capo Alfa afferma davanti a Clay la convivenza di Elena con Philip, come se ne esce Elena con Jeremy? \u201cBRAVO. L\u2019hai umiliato dicendogli quella cosa\u201d. \u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026. Capite? Se Clay la prende a male \u00e8 solo perch\u00e9 Jeremy non sa star zitto, non \u00e8 assolutamente colpa sua che \u00e8 fedifraga e bugiarda. O TEMPORA! O MORES! Elena \u00e8 orfana dall\u2019et\u00e0 di cinque anni dopo che i genitori sono morti in un incidente d\u2019auto; passa di famiglia adottiva di famiglia adottiva e tutte, tutte, TUTTE sono cos\u00ec composte: madre cretina che non capisce niente e padre pedofilo. Non lo dice a chiare lettere ma fa ben capire che sia stata quantomeno molestata da tutti loro. Ora. Alzi la mano chi pensa che ci\u00f2 sia possibile. Nessuno nessuno? Riproviamo: Alzi la mani chi pensa che ci\u00f2 sia la pi\u00f9 grande cretinata che uno scrittore abbia mai potuto produrre per aumentare il pathos. Ecco, meglio, ci siamo tutti.. proseguiamo. (Sto ancora seriamente trovando un senso alla cosa, ma non ne vedo). Tra l\u2019altro loro essendo lupi hanno un ottimo olfatto e riescono a seguire la pista di altri lupi anche se questi sono passati giorni e giorni prima. Questo ovviamente fino a che fa comodo alla storia, perch\u00e9 quando invece la Armstrong vuole inserire un po\u2019 di suspense (da farsela nei pantaloni, giuro), tutto ad un tratto il fiuto non funziona pi\u00f9 \u201cperch\u00e9 c\u2019\u00e8 troppa gente e gli odori si mescolano\u201d. Il lettore dopo aver sopportato di tutto, in primis la sua cretinanza selvaggia, a questo affronto alla sua intelligenza non ci sta e insulta Elena.. Ben le sta. Seriamente, ma cosa sono questi poteri fighissimi che compaiono e scompaiono quando alla trama fa comodo? MA PUOI??? La parte finale, quella della resa dei conti.. Serve a qualcosa dirvi che mentre il branco ha un \u2018piano\u2019 Elena decide di fare di testa sua, agire, mandare potenzialmente tutto a rotoli, e riesce comunque a salvarsi? No, vero? Alla fine della manfrina, dopo che per tutto il tempo (e il sesso fatto con Clay) in cui Elena si \u00e8 autoconvinta e ha provato a convincere gli altri del fatto che non sarebbe tornata nel branco, che Philip era il suo futuro, che tornare con Clay era stato un errore ( PERIODICO , a quanto pare) capisce che no, era tutta una bugia. Accanna senza piet\u00e0 e senza rimorso il povero Philip con un bel CIAONE e via. Peccato, avrei preferito che fosse Philip a mandarla a quel paese.. Ma d'altronde ero gi\u00e0 arrivata (abbastanza) indenne alla fine del libro, non si pu\u00f2 avere tutto. *Le ultime sessanta pagine le ho lette con la forza della disperazione saltando qualche paragrafo, non mi vergogno ad ammetterlo :D ...more WrensReads Review I\u2019m going to start off by saying this is my all-time favorite series of books. I love a lot of series, but I read this one when I was in high school (which, I shouldn\u2019t have honestly) and INSTANTLY fell in love with it. Why shouldn\u2019t I have read it then? Well it is 100% an adult book. It has graphic scenes, sexual and bloody and probably shouldn\u2019t be read by a fifteen year old. I was tired of reading the high school equivalent reading level though, and my Kindle recommended this WrensReads Review I\u2019m going to start off by saying this is my all-time favorite series of books. I love a lot of series, but I read this one when I was in high school (which, I shouldn\u2019t have honestly) and INSTANTLY fell in love with it. Why shouldn\u2019t I have read it then? Well it is 100% an adult book. It has graphic scenes, sexual and bloody and probably shouldn\u2019t be read by a fifteen year old. I was tired of reading the high school equivalent reading level though, and my Kindle recommended this series to me so I bought it and I was hooked! Even though this is in the erotica category on some pages, this is not an erotica. It has sexual content, but I wouldn't go as for as that. I have said many a time that I am very in love with weird books. Well, this is one of those books. It\u2019s a werewolf book. DON\u2019T STOP READING I PROMISE IT IS DIFFERENT THAN BOOKS YOU ARE THINKING OF THAT WE SHALL NOT NAME ON HERE. This book was originally published in 2001; four years before werewolves started to become popular. Kelley doesn't glorify them as some books, she actually inputs how their instincts change, how \"the change\" from both forms is actually super difficult and agonizing. Elena is the heroine in this book. She is a... werewolf. Not by choice though, she was bitten. Bitten by someone in \u201cthe Pack\u201d I would say. She left the pack to try and get her life back on track and do things her own way. The Pack : the law and order of the werewolf community in America. I have read the rest of the series (a long time ago) and I believe there are different packs in different countries that keep order. Mutts : those werewolves that aren\u2019t in the pack and are usually out killing, raping and eating anything that they see. Very out of control and wild. The Pack : Jeremy : The leader of The Pack Clay : His body guard/more wolf than human; Nick\u2019s closest friend Nick : Womanizer; follower; Clay\u2019s closest friend Peter : Nick/Clay/Logan\u2019s age; another friend and pack member Antonio : Nick\u2019s father; Jeremy\u2019s closest friend Logan : Elena\u2019s only friend when she left the pack She\u2019s the only female werewolf to live through the change into a werewolf. Most have died and the hereditary wolves can only be male. So she is very wanted by all werewolves because of, you know, their nature to want to find someone who is their equal. The story starts out with Elena in Toronto with her live-in boyfriend Philip. The only person that makes her feel human. He doesn\u2019t know her species and she plans to keep it a secret from him for forever, which isn\u2019t easy. She gets a call from Jeremy, the Pack leader, saying that he needs to talk to her and its urgent. After a few phone calls back, since Philip insist that she calls back someone she claims to be her family (she\u2019s an orphan; which has a back story of its own), she gets annoyed and she flies out to New York to see what is up. There\u2019s a mutt killing on Pack territory. That isn\u2019t acceptable. Jeremy enlists her help without her say-so. She helps though because she feels she owes Jeremy everything. Things go scary wrong\u2026 and the Mutt behind everything? MY WORD. Read this book. Kelley Armstrong is one of my favorite authors. She knows how to grab your eyes and ears and not let go. She has written other series and I plan to read them all! Her writing style is glorious. I feel it is harder to write in first-person like she does; but, as I have said before, she does it flawlessly. WrensReads | Twitter | Instagram ...more Plot: 4 star Characters: 4.5 stars Writing: 4.5 stars Sexiness: 4 stars Ending: 3.5 stars Overall: 4.1 stars I knew it even before beginning this book that either I would completely loathe it, or I would not finish. Bitten was forced upon me by a colleague who's a paranormal romance fanatic. The book was also mentioned several times to me by other goodreads members, so I decided to give one more chance to paranormal. I always end up giving too many chances to things I know I would never find a likeness for. Perhaps I'm biased. In fact, I think I am; starting any book with \"I'm going to hate this\" doesn I knew it even before beginning this book that either I would completely loathe it, or I would not finish. Bitten was forced upon me by a colleague who's a paranormal romance fanatic. The book was also mentioned several times to me by other goodreads members, so I decided to give one more chance to paranormal. I always end up giving too many chances to things I know I would never find a likeness for. Perhaps I'm biased. In fact, I think I am; starting any book with \"I'm going to hate this\" doesn't really help push away the negative thought from your mind even when you're half-way into it and it actually is not that bad. Perhaps Bitten was subjected to one of my several severely lethal prejudices, for example the fact that it was written by a woman. I'm not a sexist and nor am I against feminism (as long as it focuses on strengthening women and not degrading men). But I am a complete misogynist when it comes to skill-lacking female authors penning down their silly fantasies in the shapes of contemporary Paranormal and/or Young Adult romances. To all these ladies: stop. Please. You're making me hate the fact that I'm a woman. The worst part is that these 'books' are gaining more popularity than a would-be-secret-child of Justin Bieber and Lady Gaga. Another reason I've stopped sifting through the Goodreads Most Popular and Highly Anticipated Books of whatever-year lists. I went a bit overboard with my contempt up there, and Bitten, while not completely off the contemporary romance Venn Diagram, wasn't as bad as some of the others, with the paranormal mixed in it. Bitten wasn't as poorly written as most Paranormal romances that I've tripped across ( Hush, Hush --I shiver). It actually had quite a nice bit of tone to it, to be honest. The writing wasn't mediocre, but the story it portrayed was horrible. I don't think Bitten had a story, and if it did, that story did not surface even after 160 pages of the novel--the point where I put the book down calmly and decided to kick it out of my life and memory permanently (I bet something drastic would've turned up right on the 161st page, eh?) The major setback was how the events were unfolded: we have a thirty something real shallow, like real shallow , female protagonist thrown into a bizarre and highly unrealistic set of events. She was thrust into a house of men (of course, she was the only woman there, so, sex vibes radiating off everywhere) who she had a past connection with of more than a decade, and that connection was never explained. It felt like Elena Michaels was getting abnormally comfortable in a house full of complete strangers and this was downright weird. Clayton, the supposedly alpha male douche bag of this book and the undeniable love interest of Elena Michaels, was a mess. Apparently, Elena hates him, but he still has full liberty to use her whenever and wherever he desires, and then both pretend nothing happened and Elena goes back to hating him. It's such a bullshit chemistry, that I don't even get it. Who the hell behaves like that? Oh and it's completely not cheating on her boyfriend, Philip, when she sleeps with this asshole because, hey, he's different. He's a werewolf. Werewolf genitals don't count. The action played like a movie where you accidentally hit the [slow motion] button. There was literally no description, instead we get some pretty useless and unnecessary musings from Elena's head, with no concern for logic during humane interactions. The whole progression of the book was choppy and static. Like someone broke up one story into parts and pasted them haphazardly, with some paragraphs and histories missing. No other character stood out, except, perhaps Jeremy. But even he wasn't saved from being stereotyped. Conclusion I still think I can give paranormal another chance. I'm of the belief that it's my misfortune to trump across the most blatantly ridiculous representatives of the genre and that there are some gems out there, away from the clutching hands of the mainstream fan-base and devoid of preposterous romance, which are still waiting to be found and help redeem Paranormal books in my eyes. The Dresden Files looks like a good place to start. I'm also open to other Paranormal recommendations, preferably not linked to women, romance and alpha male douche bags. ...more Elena is a werewolf, and the only female werewolf in the world at that. She is turned werewolf against her will and knowledge by a person very close to her. Mad and unable to forgive, she tries to escape her pack to find her place in the human world. When she finally thinks she is settled in her human (\"normal\") life, the pack calls for her help and she can't say \"no.\" When she is back, she faces her past and at last realizes what she really wants and needs. I am a huge fan of currently popular u Elena is a werewolf, and the only female werewolf in the world at that. She is turned werewolf against her will and knowledge by a person very close to her. Mad and unable to forgive, she tries to escape her pack to find her place in the human world. When she finally thinks she is settled in her human (\"normal\") life, the pack calls for her help and she can't say \"no.\" When she is back, she faces her past and at last realizes what she really wants and needs. I am a huge fan of currently popular urban fantasy genre and I believe \"Bitten\" is one of the better books in this genre. It starts a little slow, but picks up tremendously in latter part of the book when werewolf world is unraveled. Armstrong is extremely skillful at creating a totally believable mythology. In fact by the end of the book, the weres felt completely real to me. This story has a great deal of romance, mystery, and action in it, but most of all it is a book about self-discovery. Needless to say, I will continue reading the rest of the books in the \"Women of the Otherworld\" series, although this book can be read as a stand-alone novel with no loose ends or cliff-hangers. P.S. Due to recently uncovered additional evidence of Clay's fabulousness (specifically, him being a virgin hero), I am upgrading this book from 4 to 5 stars. ...more ~~~~~BLURB~~~~~ Elena Michaels is the world\u2019s only female werewolf. And she\u2019s tired of it. Tired of a life spent hiding and protecting, a life where her most important job is hunting down rogue werewolves. Tired of a world that not only accepts the worst in her\u2013her temper, her violence\u2013but requires it. Worst of all, she realizes she\u2019s growing content with that life, with being that person. So she left the Pack and returned to Toronto where she\u2019s trying to live as a human. When the Pack leader call ~~~~~BLURB~~~~~ Elena Michaels is the world\u2019s only female werewolf. And she\u2019s tired of it. Tired of a life spent hiding and protecting, a life where her most important job is hunting down rogue werewolves. Tired of a world that not only accepts the worst in her\u2013her temper, her violence\u2013but requires it. Worst of all, she realizes she\u2019s growing content with that life, with being that person. So she left the Pack and returned to Toronto where she\u2019s trying to live as a human. When the Pack leader calls asking for her help fighting a sudden uprising, she only agrees because she owes him. Once this is over, she\u2019ll be squared with the Pack and free to live life as a human. Which is what she wants. Really. ...more 4 tiny stars but still 4. It's not 3.5. It's more. So I'm rounding up although I'm quite conflicted about it. Let's face it guys. This was first published in 2001. How many similar books are published since?! I'll tell you - quite many! Still the story is very interesting and the book keeps its ground. If you're looking for a very good UF read with strong focus on werewolves, that's your book. My big, big issues are/were with Elena. Our idiotic(most of the time) protagonist. Oh, she's not stupid 4 tiny stars but still 4. It's not 3.5. It's more. So I'm rounding up although I'm quite conflicted about it. Let's face it guys. This was first published in 2001. How many similar books are published since?! I'll tell you - quite many! Still the story is very interesting and the book keeps its ground. If you're looking for a very good UF read with strong focus on werewolves, that's your book. My big, big issues are/were with Elena. Our idiotic(most of the time) protagonist. Oh, she's not stupid. Not at all. I'm just not very fond of her life choices throughout almost the entire book. Everything else was very good. More of my thoughts to come when I am in the mood. May be. ...more 3.5 Stars I\u2019m a huge fan of swoon-worthy anti-hero type male leads. My absolute favorite being Jericho Barrons from the Karen Marie Moning\u2019s Fever series he is also known as Jericho Fucking Barrrons depending on if you fall on the side of love him or hate him. Clay has that same type of fuzzy morality going for him as well. He is completely comfortable with the animal that he is and does just enough to get by in the real world. He does not apologize for the man he is; he will kill, maim, torture 3.5 Stars I\u2019m a huge fan of swoon-worthy anti-hero type male leads. My absolute favorite being Jericho Barrons from the Karen Marie Moning\u2019s Fever series he is also known as Jericho Fucking Barrrons depending on if you fall on the side of love him or hate him. Clay has that same type of fuzzy morality going for him as well. He is completely comfortable with the animal that he is and does just enough to get by in the real world. He does not apologize for the man he is; he will kill, maim, torture or do anything else to protect what is his and he will never say he is sorry or feel guilt for the lengths he would go to. Clay's behavior couldn't be measured by human standard's of normalcy... or by any standards of normalcy at all. For those of you that fall on the hate side of Jericho Barrons you might like Clay a little better. He has a vulnerable side that comes out with Elena and Jeremy his surrogate father that makes him all the more likeable. We all know that Jericho Barrons has no vulnerable side. For me Clay made this book worth reading. He was strong and knew exactly who he was which was nice when the main character was struggling so much with her identity and the decisions she was making. The bulk of the story is about Elena the only female werewolf in existence. She has been through a lot and left the pack over a year ago to try and live a normal life cutting off all ties to the people who treated her like family. She has a whole new life complete with a boyfriend and normal job. Everything is going pretty well so the last thing she wants is to be drawn back into pack politics. But when Jeremy calls and says he needs her help she begrudgingly agrees to assist him this one last time. Famous last words right? I enjoyed this story. Not only was there the conflict with the lone wolves trying to take down the pack and creating havoc but there was also the complicated backstory to Elena and Clay. I found myself to be very sympathetic to them and I really hoped that Elena would figure out what she really wanted out of life sooner rather than later. There was a perfect blend of danger, action and romance. I knew right away which world Elena belonged in but I saw why she would struggle with her decisions as well. I really liked the introduction into this world and the characters. I will definitely be reading on mainly for Clay whose character peaked my interest the most. Sorry about all the Jericho Barrons love in this review. But I totally love that character and Clay made me want to go back and re-read the entire Fever series again and it just gushed out ...more Bitten gets off to such a good start. It reminded me climbing inside a late model luxury car at a rental agency, a car that's been recently waxed and has that New Car Smell. And then doesn't goddam go anywhere. I gave Kelley Armstrong 86 pages to turn the ignition before I got out and walked back into the rental office for other options. This 2001 novel is the first person account of \"Elena,\" a blonde haired Toronto resident who's a werewolf. What lured me in here was Armstrong's prose, which is Bitten gets off to such a good start. It reminded me climbing inside a late model luxury car at a rental agency, a car that's been recently waxed and has that New Car Smell. And then doesn't goddam go anywhere. I gave Kelley Armstrong 86 pages to turn the ignition before I got out and walked back into the rental office for other options. This 2001 novel is the first person account of \"Elena,\" a blonde haired Toronto resident who's a werewolf. What lured me in here was Armstrong's prose, which is often sensual and exciting, at least in the prologue, where Elena wakes at 2 a.m., sneaks out of the Toronto apartment she shares with her new boyfriend, transforms into a 130-pound wolf and goes for a run in a ravine. My legs pick up the rhythm before I'm halfway down the ravine. I close my eyes for a second and feel the wind slice across my muzzle. As my paws thump against the hard earth, tiny darts of pain shoot up my legs, but they make me feel alive, like jolting awake after an overlong sleep. The muscles contract and extend in perfect harmony. With each stretch comes an ache and a burst of physical joy. Armstrong has a gym membership, clearly. Good work so far. Nothing heart-stopping happens in the prologue but it does set up all sorts of interesting questions as Elena returns to her boyfriend, Philip, who has no idea what she is. -- Does Philip suspect Elena is cheating on him? -- Has Philip ever noticed Elena's superhuman strength in bed? -- When they went to see The Fellowship of the Ring , did Elena start to wolf out in the theater? That was a long damn movie. -- Does Elena's diet puzzle Philip? -- Does Philip have an interesting occupation like zoologist or veterinarian that would make him wonder if his fear of commitment was making him imagine things about his new girlfriend, like, that she might be a dog? We never find out in this novel. First, Armstrong has no facility with characters or dialogue. These are bland people with generic backgrounds, nonspecific occupations and boring hobbies. If you guessed they have nothing to talk about, nothing important, you'd be correct. I liked the decision to begin the novel in Toronto; that city is ripe with possibilities in the summer, but Armstrong doesn't explore them. Then we have the dialogue: \"Well, which is it?\" Jeremy asked, his gaze skewering mine. \"Pack or not?\" \"Come on, Jer,\" Clay said. \"You know she doesn't mean it.\" \"We had an arrangement, Elena. I wouldn't contact you unless I needed you. Well, I need you and now you're sulking and fuming because I had the gall to remind you of your responsibilities.\" \"You need me for what? To take care of a trespassing mutt? That's Clay's job.\" If you missed that the characters were named Elena, Jeremy and Clay, it's okay, because Elena, Jeremy and Clay call each other Elena, Jeremy and Clay by name on every page. Armstrong's characters refer to each other by name so often that I couldn't help but notice how wrong the names were. \"Elena\" should belong to a raven haired gypsy type, a bohemian, not a gym Barbie. The pack leader is named \"Jeremy\". No, sorry. \"Jeremy\" is an unemployed musician, maybe a blogger, but Jeremy is not an alpha werewolf. His lieutenant, a killer with six-pack abs is named \"Clay.\" A werewolf named \"Clay\"? No. \"Clay\" is golf or tennis coach. I kept imagining him wearing a Polo shirt. Armstrong doesn't show any ingenuity when it comes to her narrative either, which involves Elena departing Toronto to assist her Pack, a group of six or seven men who exist in the human world, but are unable to deal with one rogue werewolf who's intruded on their territory in upstate New York. House trained werewolves, apparently. As they assemble, the werewolves enjoy a delicious breakfast of pancakes and ham. Werewolves eating pancakes and ham. I can accept psychics, vampires, werewolves, etc., but one motif I find silly is the secret club motif. This is where characters with supernatural powers get together and have themselves a little meeting to discuss action items, assign jobs and deadlines, and maybe gripe at each other. It's all very social and practical and nice but excuse me, BORING! Psychics, vampires or werewolves do not have meetings. These are not the kind of people who like to chit chat. These are people who've been given godlike powers and yet -- and here's where an author can have fun -- these powers make it next to impossible for them to connect with others. They may be able to help others out of a desperate situation, but will never be accepted by them or invited over to watch Netflix. They walk alone. I mean, would you want to hang out with a psychic, werewolf or vampire? And if a bunch of them are in a secret club together, it's just so silly. There's nothing as ridiculous as a compliance meeting if you're a werewolf. Maybe my antipathy for compliance meetings is surfacing here. Bottom line, I was dreadfully bored by the direction Armstrong took her novel and will not be reading more of her books. ...more Sheesh, I don\u2019t know what kind of review to give this book. I get the feeling I\u2019m going to be way too harsh. I\u2019m still angry with this book because it wasn\u2019t even close to being as good as Armstrong\u2019s Darkest Power series. I had such high hopes. I thought I had found my new favorite author. I know this is one of Armstrong\u2019s first books, and for that reason I should give her some slack, but I probably haven\u2019t. First off, it\u2019s SO slow. There\u2019s so little suspense. In the Darkest Powers series, Arms Sheesh, I don\u2019t know what kind of review to give this book. I get the feeling I\u2019m going to be way too harsh. I\u2019m still angry with this book because it wasn\u2019t even close to being as good as Armstrong\u2019s Darkest Power series. I had such high hopes. I thought I had found my new favorite author. I know this is one of Armstrong\u2019s first books, and for that reason I should give her some slack, but I probably haven\u2019t. First off, it\u2019s SO slow. There\u2019s so little suspense. In the Darkest Powers series, Armstrong piled on the mystery, creating one question after question, yet rarely answering any of them. I was hanging on for dear life with that series. Not in Bitten though. There is no mystery. Everything is laid out in a massive info dump that goes on for nearly a hundred and twenty pages. I\u2019ve read lengthy explanations about werewolf society, Elena\u2019s boring past, and Pack dynamics. Elena reflects on her life over and over again (yawn) all the while the story goes nowhere. Another suspense killer is the lack of danger. I never once worried about any of the characters until maybe page 300. Elena and her boys are top dogs. The villains aren\u2019t that big of a threat, expect maybe for (view spoiler) [one murderer dude, but he\u2019s not comfortable with his werewolf abilities, so it\u2019s made clear he\u2019s at a disadvantage. (hide spoiler) ] In fact, the pack seems just as ruthless as the bad guys. Elena calls the mutts \"Werewolf Mafia,' but actually the pack is the mafia?. There\u2019s also very little sexual tension and conflict between Clay and Elena. We know Clay wants her bad and she wants him. She\u2019s just being pissy about the fact that (view spoiler) [ he bit her and made her a werewolf. (hide spoiler) ] They have a lot of sex with each other, but there\u2019s no tension. It would have been more exciting if Elena had fallen for a mutt. And with no suspense to keep me preoccupied, I starting thinking about the unanswered questions in Armstrong\u2019s world. Like for instance, how does Elena know there are only about 35 werewolves in the world? What do they do, keep GPS trackers on everybody? After all, the world\u2019s pretty big. There could be a secret pack hidden in Tibet, or maybe a stray in the Boreal forest in Russia. The fact that the pack are the top dogs of the entire frickin' werewolf world is just annoying. Just like Elena is supposedly the only werewolf female. How does she know? Her confidence about this just makes her seem incredibly cocky and short-sighted. Of course, this could also be due to the fact that I didn't like Elena. I think she\u2019s a user. She knows Clay loves her, but she doesn\u2019t want to be with him. So what does she do? She keeps sleeping with him, and then treating him like dirt. It\u2019s no wonder the guy is confused. Then she lies to her human lover Phillip, stringing him along. Towards the end, I felt sorry for Phillip. If a guy acted like this, readers would say he\u2019s an asshole, and they\u2019d be right. So how does Elena get off that easy? She's a Mary Sue, that's how. If just one character had told Elena off, I would have forgiven her. I actually like bitch characters. But since the whole pack just kisses her butt, she annoyed the crap out me. A character can be bitch, but at least have someone call her on it. Then there\u2019s Clay, who\u2019s the Southern psychopath. He tends to follow Elena around like a puppy. Why he has a Southern accent, I\u2019ll never know? Yes he was found as a child living feral in the Louisiana Bijou, but that was years ago. He\u2019s been living with Jeremy in New York his whole teenage and adult life. Don\u2019t you think his accent would be gone by now? Actually the only Southern thing he says is \u2018darling,' which seemed out of place for me. I\u2019m convinced Armstrong based Clay off of Josh Holloway. I actually didn\u2019t mind Clay. In fact, I think he deserved better than Elena. (view spoiler) [I still don\u2019t know why he bit Elena. (hide spoiler) ] Anyway, I'm giving this three stars. I won't be reading book 2. I may read another series by Armstrong though. ...more You can take a look at my blog Bookland@wordpress Check out my twitter BookLand@twitter Also you can like my fb page Bookland@facebook Bitten was a good book. The plot was not as interesting as I was expecting but I was impressed by many things so I finished it. Kelley Armstrong is quite talented and she satisfied my need to relate with the characters. For me it's important to be able to experience the same feelings as the characters in order to understand them. She was blowing my mind everytime Ele You can take a look at my blog Bookland@wordpress Check out my twitter BookLand@twitter Also you can like my fb page Bookland@facebook Bitten was a good book. The plot was not as interesting as I was expecting but I was impressed by many things so I finished it. Kelley Armstrong is quite talented and she satisfied my need to relate with the characters. For me it's important to be able to experience the same feelings as the characters in order to understand them. She was blowing my mind everytime Elena was a wolf. The description of her feelings and senses and what was happening in her mind was fantastic. It was like I was Elena and I enjoyed it better than I should have. Of course the same was happening when she was in her human body. I loved that I could follow her thoughts and completely apprehend the reasons behind her actions and her behavior. The only thing that bothered me was the transition from the actual story to Elena's flashbacks and back again. One moment something was happening, and out of nowhere, we were years back and something else was going on. I was lost many times but I was able to connect the dots. After reading half of the book and after I got to know Armstrong's writting style, I was able to follow without trouble. As I mentioned at the beggining the plot was not as interesting as I was expecting. Maybe it's because I am in a weird lovey dovey mood and I just needed something more fluffy and cheesy. Even though Elena's love life was a huge topic of the book, the most thrilling parts were the action scenes; detailed enough and well built, they kept me on the ball. There was also a dose of creepy and sometimes I wished I hadn't read certain parts of the action scenes. Elena was an awesome badass and a great example of how female leads should be. Maybe I liked her so much because of her age and experiences and because of the fact that her way of thinking was closer to mine. I usually read YA books and most of the heroines are quite annoying and well... quite teenagers. She was determined, focused and proffesional and even though she was trying to hide it, I could she her caring and loving side. Clay on the other hand, besides the wildness and the temper he couldn't really help, was a really adorable creature. He was all about love and affection and sometimes I just wanted to hold him and love him forever and ever. Yes, he seemed to be cool and untouchable but I could see behind his facade and I am telling you that the vibes he was sending me were different than what was expected. I am not really into action and thriller books but I read it because a friend recommended it and gladly I was not disappointed. I'll read some more because Kelley Armstrong is great in that kind of genre and I appreciate a good book from an author who knows how to do the job. ...more I really enjoyed Bitten. Elena Michaels is the only female werewolf in the world. She was bitten and betrayed by her former fianc\u00e9 Clay and is trying to make a normal life for herself in Toronto with her human boyfriend. Called back to the pack to help deal with a Mutts problem, Elena hopes everything will be done in a couple of days so she can return to her normal life. However, once at Stonehaven she finds herself immersed in the werewolf way of life, seeming to fall once again for Clay. Elena I really enjoyed Bitten. Elena Michaels is the only female werewolf in the world. She was bitten and betrayed by her former fianc\u00e9 Clay and is trying to make a normal life for herself in Toronto with her human boyfriend. Called back to the pack to help deal with a Mutts problem, Elena hopes everything will be done in a couple of days so she can return to her normal life. However, once at Stonehaven she finds herself immersed in the werewolf way of life, seeming to fall once again for Clay. Elena deals with everything thrown at her in the course of dealing with the Mutts who are killing humans. Elena is a great character to read, she is strong and smart yet vulnerable in many ways. She engages with the pack well and is not afraid to admit her own faults. She clearly does not want to admit she enjoys life as a werewolf, at least when it\u2019s just the pack. I grew to really like Clay, he is a lovable bad boy who has eyes only for Elena. The pack leader, the ever calm Jeremy, is a great character but he has his own vulnerabilities. I liked the other pack members too, who all seemed a believable group who complimented each other very well. The detail given on pack and werewolf behaviour was well woven into the story and seems to increase my enjoyment of the plot not detract from it. I found the general werewolf view of women as sex or dinner as quite difficult, but the Pack\u2019s attitude towards Elena was clearly much more respectful and equal. I really enjoyed Bitten and am looking forward to reading more of Kelley Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series. My review was published on my blog, if you'd like to check my blog out visit: http://magicfaeriesparanormalreview.blogspot.com/2010/08/review-bitten-by-kelly-armstrong.html ...more Solid 3 stars, I am happy I started this series. I definitely plan on reading the rest of the series and am very excited to be introduced to new characters that will be popping up!", "Title": "Bitten"},
