{"Comments": "<+++>Wonder</+++> is one of those rare books that makes you want to hug everyone in it so tightly that they\u2019ll have no doubt about how much you love them\u2026and beyond that, it also makes you want to reach out and hug the whole world. It\u2019s an upbeat, humorous, life-affirming story that deserves to be read\u2014and it\u2019s one that may just change its readers, too. If you remember how terrifying it was to be a kid on a day to day basis, you\u2019ll appreciate August\u2019s story. 10-year-old Auggie is going to school for the fir <+++>Wonder</+++> is one of those rare books that makes you want to hug everyone in it so tightly that they\u2019ll have no doubt about how much you love them\u2026and beyond that, it also makes you want to reach out and hug the whole world. It\u2019s an upbeat, humorous, life-affirming story that deserves to be read\u2014and it\u2019s one that may just change its readers, too. If you remember how terrifying it was to be a kid on a day to day basis, you\u2019ll appreciate August\u2019s story. 10-year-old Auggie is going to school for the first time in his life,<---M> and he has to navigate new rules</---M>, learn to interact with teachers, and figure out how to make new friends. In addition, he also has a severe facial deformity that stops strangers in their tracks, so all the usual perils of the fifth grade take on even more heightened stakes. With the matter-of-fact wisdom that warmed Beverly Cleary \u2019s books, this story about growing up is full of heart and humor, and written with a clear-eyed intelligence that never descends into cynicism. Auggie\u2019s smart, funny personality will win over readers who will agonize with him over the complicated web of friendships and family even as they cheer for him as he learns some of life\u2019s big and scary lessons. It\u2019s okay, I know I\u2019m weird-looking, take a look, I don\u2019t bite. Hey, the truth is, if a wookie started going to school all of a sudden, I\u2019d be curious, I\u2019d probably stare a bit! And if I was walking with Jack or Summer, I\u2019d probably whisper to them: Hey, there\u2019s the wookie. And if the wookie caught me saying that, he\u2019d know I wasn\u2019t trying to be mean. I was just pointing out the fact that he\u2019s a wookie. Even with a positive attitude and smart, loving parents, however, Auggie\u2019s story is not an easy one to read, and my emotions ran wildly from sadness to hilarity to terrible anger at what happens to him.<---F> Not all kids are nice</---F>. Some kids behave one way in front of adults and another way in front of kids. Some adults are downright cruel. And just when you think life can\u2019t possibly get any harder or more challenging, sometimes it does. Although the book is primarily told from Auggie\u2019s perspective, it was a surprise to me when it switched to a few other points of view. With a total of six different voices, I would normally say this is far too many, but in this particular case every person offered an insight into August\u2019s beautiful personality and amazing life in a way that would be impossible to otherwise know. Reading about Auggie\u2019s 27 surgeries, rejoicing at his vibrant inner life, hurting for him when he felt lonely or misunderstood, and seeing his life from various different perspectives, it\u2019s impossible not to be moved by his story. And how can you not love a boy who understands that sometimes his mom might need his precious teddy bear more than he does? Not entirely random side note: (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [In my former life, I worked in movie publicity. In that position, you\u2019re subjected to a lot of wheedling and sob stories, so it\u2019s natural to develop a pretty jaded viewpoint. So when a film critic forwarded a plea to me from the mom of a young boy who wanted to attend an advance screening of the latest Harry Potter movie, my first reaction was automatic suspicion\u2014why couldn\u2019t this kid wait the two months until the movie was out? I did a lot of research before I finally spoke to the mom, but I\u2019m so glad I did. Because it turned out the boy was in the advanced stages of an incurable illness and was not expected to live much longer. It made me so terribly ashamed that I had doubted the story. Understandable, yes, but I knew that the letter could easily have been overlooked in the hustle and bustle of the business\u2014and it scared me to think that something that so important might have been lost because of other things that mattered so much less. In this case, I made sure this boy and his family got the VIP treatment, including a ton of swag and a very memorable evening. He was absolutely incandescent that night, and his parents told me afterwards that it was one of the happiest experiences in his young life. When his mom told me a few months later that he\u2019d passed away, it was terribly sad. But I was so grateful to have had that brief contact, and to have helped bring a tiny bit of joy into his last months. It was, just as Wonder is, a reminder that it\u2019s so much easier to look the other way, because of impatience or fear. But sometimes reaching out to another human being can be a life-changing experience, for everyone concerned. As many have said before me, taking action doesn't just change the other person, it also changes you. (hide spoiler) ] Tears were streaming down my face as I finished this book\u2014and the funny thing is, they were primarily tears of joy. Wonder is written with the kind of sensitivity and insight that I had hoped for when I read The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time , and it went the extra mile to be an uplifting story that made me want to embrace life and the people in it, too. I also very much appreciate that this middle grade book is written for its intended age group, not just a book for adults in the guise of a children\u2019s book, even though it\u2019s certainly one that can be enjoyed by readers of any age. \u201cThere are always going to be jerks in the world, Auggie,\u201d she said, looking at me. \u201cBut I really believe, and Daddy really believes, that there are more good people on this earth than bad people, and the good people watch out for each other and take care of each other.\u201d A story like this comes along just a few times in a lifetime, and I fervently hope that readers will find their way to it. This short book that doesn\u2019t waste a single page in squeezing your emotions so tightly you feel like you can't breathe, but when they're finally released, you may find that your heart is full of even more empathy, compassion, and love than you thought possible. We expect to be surprised by cruelty, but how wonderful it is to also be surprised by kindness. This review also appears in The Midnight Garden . An advance copy was provided by the publisher. About the Inspiration Behind the Story The ice cream incident in this story actually happened, but perhaps not in the way you might think. Learn about the surprising inspiration behind this story on the RJ Palcio's website . She's definitely an author to watch. ...more Ye gods, what a wonderful book! I don't read a lot of realistic middle grade fiction. I tend to gravitate toward fantasy. But this is probably the best such book I've read since Sherman Alexie's The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian. The main character August (Auggie) Pullman is a ten-year-old boy with severe facial abnormalities. Little kids scream when they see him. Older kids make fun of him and call him a freak. Auggie is home-schooled through grade four, but for middle school his p Ye gods, what a wonderful book! I don't read a lot of realistic middle grade fiction. I tend to gravitate toward fantasy. But this is probably the best such book I've read since Sherman Alexie's The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian. The main character August (Auggie) Pullman is a ten-year-old boy with severe facial abnormalities. Little kids scream when they see him. Older kids make fun of him and call him a freak. Auggie is home-schooled through grade four, but for middle school his parents decide to send him to a private school, Beecher Prep, in New York City. Wonder is the story of his fifth grade year, told partly from Auggie's perspective, and partly from the other kids in his life -- his sister Via, her oldest friend Miranda, Via's boyfriend Justin, and Jack and Summer, Auggie's new friends at Beecher Prep. Each narrator has a distinct, completely believable voice. Palacio writes with just the right balance of humor and pathos, making each character both flawed and sympathetic. She \"gets\" kids -- how they think, how they talk, how they have the capacity to be both horribly mean and incredibly brave and kind. I recognize these characters from my years of teaching middle school, and I'm sure young readers will recognize them too. The book rings with authenticity. The short chapters and shifting narrative make this a quick, easy read. It's a feel-good book with a great message, and the ending is a tearjerker in the best possible way. I'd recommend it without hesitation to most middle grade readers, girls or boys, even those who may not normally pick up realistic fiction. ...more Watch my review & discussion here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=txeTr... What a WONDERful first book of the year! I read this book almost too quickly, I wanted it to last longer. This might be technically a children's book, but it really was such a special and meaningful read and I highly recommend that everyone read this once in their lives! Personally, I prefer my ARC cover. You like? :) [image error] August has always known that he's different. But he's learned to long accept that people will always stare at his face, and there's nothing he can do about it. So why not just live life the best way possible? With a loving family always by his side, although originally not at all happy about starting school, he soon starts to warm to the idea. Having been home-schooled for many years he is now more vulnerable than ever. Like any person t Personally, I prefer my ARC cover. You like? :) [image error] August has always known that he's different. But he's learned to long accept that people will always stare at his face, and there's nothing he can do about it. So why not just live life the best way possible? With a loving family always by his side, although originally not at all happy about starting school, he soon starts to warm to the idea. Having been home-schooled for many years he is now more vulnerable than ever. Like any person that's a new student, August faces many mixed reactions from fellow students. Some are welcoming like Summers and Jack. Others not so much like Henry and Julian. But add to that something which will make you definitely stand out - and not in a positive way - and you are bound to have a rough few days. I just want to say this straight out. If I was August, heck no would I be brave enough to walk through those gates. He is just ten years old but his sensibility, ability to laugh at himself and his courage just blew me away. I think he is such a wonderful human being. I can't gush enough about him. What I particularly love about the book is how we are able to see August through others too. Of course this is Augusts journey, but it's interesting to see how others see him. Via, his sister, is the one I found most interesting. She's a teenager and at that age where she is still discovering new things about herself day by day. And although she adores her brother, she's grown up learning never to complain, to never want or expect anything from her parents. She's always known that August is first priority since her parents are so over -protective over him, but little by little, it's clear that she's starting to grow a little resentful. And she hates herself for it, because she loves her family so much. What really shined for me was not just August himself, but his loving tight - knit family. The kind that you see in cartoons or children's books. The bedtime stories, the hugs and kisses. It's so lovely to just watch from afar and see how supportive and sweet they are towards one another. And hey, when we get to the last few pages it's just full on inspiring. Some very touching, quotable moments there. ;) ...more \"You really are a wonder, Auggie. You are a wonder.\" I've read this book twice now, and it will definitely always have a special place in my heart. This is a book that makes me laugh, makes me cry, and gives me endless amounts of hope. I love this book, and will probably be giving out copies to my friends and family this Christmas. first read in May 2013 I feel like I want to attach a giant asterisk to those two stars up there: * I acknowledge that this opinion will not be shared by 90% or more of readers. I know that most everyone is going to love this book: it\u2019s a very sweet, heartwarming story. And on top of that \u2013 it\u2019s well written and flows really nicely. I finished it in one afternoon. For a really well thought-out, positive review I would read Flannery\u2019s . If you insist on staying here \u2013 be prepared for dissent and lot of middle-school remi I feel like I want to attach a giant asterisk to those two stars up there: * I acknowledge that this opinion will not be shared by 90% or more of readers. I know that most everyone is going to love this book: it\u2019s a very sweet, heartwarming story. And on top of that \u2013 it\u2019s well written and flows really nicely. I finished it in one afternoon. For a really well thought-out, positive review I would read Flannery\u2019s . If you insist on staying here \u2013 be prepared for dissent and lot of middle-school reminiscing on my part. You\u2019ve been warned. And now to the task at hand! This is the story of August, a ten year old boy who\u2019s attending school for the first time. He was born with major facial deformities, and has been homeschooled from early childhood. His parents think it\u2019s time for him to attempt a real school environment, but he isn\u2019t sure. In public, he\u2019s often greeted by curious stares or even open revulsion. Will he be able to survive middle school? This book got under my skin a lot more than I ever expected it to. I thought that my major complaint (if any) would be that it was too light, too sweet. But this book has a lot of depth. It contains six (or more \u2013 I kind of lost track) points of view. The narrative is handed off relay-style from one pair of eyes to another, starting with August and moving forward to his sister Via and then to his friends. I think this was largely successful; although, (and this is just my opinion) I think that if you need to distinguish multiple POV\u2019s using differences in spelling/capitalizations/fonts then you probably shouldn\u2019t be writing multiple POV\u2019s. Justin\u2019s chapter (written in present tense and with no capitalizations) and the emails/texts between Auggie and Jack (which were horrific in their spelling, even though the two boys have perfect spelling in their respective sections) felt distracting. But for the most part I found this to be a very engrossing, intelligent, thoughtful read. I related really strongly to the chapters from Via and Summer, in particular. However, I think that the main reason that I just could not connect with this book is that I fundamentally disagree with its central lesson, which boils down to: \u201cbe kind.\u201d To explain myself properly, I need to relate a little history of my own (and this is where this review gets personal). One of my best friends for the past (almost) seventeen years is disabled. I don\u2019t like saying that, because she hates that word. I can hear her voice in my head right now, doing an exaggerated parody of the word handicapped: \u201c hayun-d-CAPPED! \u201d, which she also hates. We met in 8th grade French class and quickly bonded over a shared love of movies and just about everything else. We were practically joined hip-to-wheel (she would totally laugh at that) from grades 8-11, when I tragically had to move to another state. Even so, we\u2019ve remained close. I attended her wedding three years ago and we\u2019ve commiserated over the \u201cnewborn phase\u201d now that she\u2019s had her first child. My friend has very limited mobility on the entire right side of her body. As a small child, she walked using a walker, but made the decision as she got older to start using a wheelchair. People often stared when she walked \u2013 she moved so differently than everyone else. They stared less when she was in a chair. But there\u2019s one thing that my friend has always hated even more than curious or disgusted stares: when people asked her why she needed a wheelchair. I don\u2019t know how many times a well-meaning friend or adult sat down with her and asked \u2013 all concern, all solicitude \u2013 for \u201cher story.\u201d She got so tired of it that she started making up fake answers. This one was my favorite: \u201c I-I-I don\u2019t know, man! I was f-fine yesterday! I could walk! Y-you gotta help me! I think it\u2019s contagious! \u201d And then she would proceed to clutch at whoever was asking. When we were fifteen, we spent one day together going around the mall and her neighborhood in wheelchairs. I used one of her older ones. It wasn\u2019t like some sophisticated attempt at a social experiment on my part \u2013 I just wanted to get a small glimpse of what it was like for her. In hindsight, I think that I could probably be accused of the kind of arrogant curiosity that she hated \u2013 but she was forgiving enough to go along with my idea and if it bothered her, she never mentioned it. What I remember most was how kind everyone was. How solicitous. How they looked at us with soft gazes, as they said things like, \u201c do you girls need any help today? I finally got a small inkling of what it must be like to deal with that for your entire life: a constant wave of kind smiles and soft voices and helpfulness; a constant blindness to everything about you. It says: you are not someone to be taken seriously, to be respected. You are someone to be pitied. A few of the many reasons that I love my friend so much are that she\u2019s outspoken, blunt, honest, and bold. When we were teenagers, she would go right up to boys and flirt shamelessly with them. She would state her opinions loudly with no apologies. It was like a dare. It was like she was saying: I dare you to disagree with me, hate me, lust after me. My friend didn\u2019t want to be treated with kindness ; she wanted to be treated like a person. She wanted to be loved, hated, desired, or ignored just like everyone else. And now I finally come to the point: why I couldn\u2019t possibly connect with this book (some spoilers follow). I don\u2019t think that I\u2019m giving too much away when I say that Auggie gets a happy ending. Or at least, it\u2019s supposed to be. Auggie the character seems over the moon about it all. He just loves it when the former bullies in his class start patting him on the back and calling him \u201clittle dude\u201d like he\u2019s their special mascot. That\u2019s what real friends do! He\u2019s just so happy \u2013 as his friends are growing up and discovering the opposite sex, as his beautiful friends Summer and Jack seem destined to be a couple. It\u2019s so great! Good thing he doesn\u2019t want any of that! Nope. He\u2019s just content to remain the asexual third wheel forever. And he\u2019s ecstatic to receive an award \u2013 for kindness! \u2013 that even he acknowledges was given to him because he\u2019s the kid with the disability. And of course they all just cheer and cheer as he walks up to the podium \u2013 in front of everyone \u2013 so happy!! Even though he hates being in front of crowds. And, YAY!! It\u2019s picture time! Even though he\u2019s had a lifelong aversion to having his picture taken \u2013 let\u2019s get a million! With all of his close, close (only started acknowledging him two seconds ago) friends. Okay, so - sarcasm aside. I do realize that not every disabled experience is the same. Maybe Auggie would like to be acknowledged - I don't know. But when everyone\u2019s congratulating themselves for being so kind to him, it makes me feel insulted on his behalf. Doesn\u2019t he want to be taken seriously? Doesn\u2019t he want to be seen as more than just the special kid? Doesn\u2019t he want to be respected as a person? As a boy? All I have is my own experience, and it tells me that it\u2019s better to treat people with dignity and respect than with kindness. And so the central point of this book (for all that it is very well-meaning) seems at best simplistic to me \u2013 and at worst \u2013 insulting. ...more A wonderful read for all ages. I feel a bit like a cold-hearted snob for giving this book two stars. I am not saying that it isn't an uplifting story definitely worth being told (and read), but I can't deny that there were a few aspects I had problems with and that the story didn't trigger the emotional reaction I expected it to. Wonder is the story of <---C>August Pullman</---C>'s first year at school. Auggie is a ten-year-old boy born with a facial anomaly that has required him to undergo countless operations and made him an outsider wit I feel a bit like a cold-hearted snob for giving this book two stars. I am not saying that it isn't an uplifting story definitely worth being told (and read), but I can't deny that there were a few aspects I had problems with and that the story didn't trigger the emotional reaction I expected it to. Wonder is the story of August Pullman's first year at school. Auggie is a ten-year-old boy born with a facial anomaly that has required him to undergo countless operations and made him an outsider with other kids his age. This book is the story of him facing his fears of being stared at and excluded, of him growing up and of his family letting go. His story is told from six different perspectives. We have of course August himself, but also his older sister Via, her boyfriend Justin, her friend Miranda and Jack and Summer, two kids August befriends at school. Male and female perspectives, very young teens, older teens \u2013 yet their voices all sounded more or less the same to me. Furthermore, I felt that some points of view didn\u2019t really add to the story Funny enough, the voice that got to me the most wasn't August's but his sister Via's. Basically, she has lived in her little brother's shadow all her life. I found it rather sad to read her thoughts, how she always had to fend for herself when her little brother was the center of attention and how she sometimes hates herself for wanting to take that attention away from him. She really was the character I could identify with the most, and her voice definitely rang true to me. This doesn't mean I couldn't sympatise with August himself, too, but the four additional perspectives I could have easily done without. In general, the writing is kept simple, fitting and true to the ten-year-old responsible for most of the narration, but towards the end, the heavy use of the word \"dude\" really got on my nerves. It seemed to be for authenticity purposes, but it bordered on ridiculous (I know, this is the nitpicker in me coming out.) A very important role throughout the book play precepts August's English teacher, Mr Browne, presents his students at the beginning of every month. These precepts are often addressed in the story, and one of them, probably the one used to underline the overall message of the book, rubbed me the wrong way. It is the following quote by an American psychotherapist and author: \"When given the choice between being right or being kind, choose kind.\" \u2013 Dr. Wayne Dyer Now, don't get me wrong: being kind certainly isn\u2019t a bad decision. But should I really value being kind over being right? Should I tell lies not to offend a person's feelings for example? Should I omit my own feelings in order to not hurt anyone else? Tell me, where would this concept lead us? Towards a better world? I somehow doubt it. In the end, when I recapitulate the whole book, there are simply too many \"toos\" that come to my mind: the different voices were too similar, Auggie\u2019s parents too good and too understanding, the \"villains\" too evil, the ending too perfect, the overall tone a little too preachy. And I have one question: Do ten-year-old kids really date?! Thanks a lot to Random House and Netgalley for the review copy. ...more I hate reviewing books that I'm crazy about. I never can get across how wonderful they are. This is one of those books. Sorry Christina. Words do hurt. The universe has not been kind to Auggie Pullman. He was born with facial deformities. He has had multiple surgeries but he still gets people stopping when they see him and ugly remarks made about him. He had been homeschooled up until the fifth grade due to his many recoveries from the surgeries and I think to protect him from other people. His I hate reviewing books that I'm crazy about. I never can get across how wonderful they are. This is one of those books. Sorry Christina. Words do hurt. The universe has not been kind to Auggie Pullman. He was born with facial deformities. He has had multiple surgeries but he still gets people stopping when they see him and ugly remarks made about him. He had been homeschooled up until the fifth grade due to his many recoveries from the surgeries and I think to protect him from other people. His parents decide it would be better if he was exposed to people and he begins a private school. Middle school. Middle school kids are the spawns of the devil. I have a 11 year old boy who is in the fifth grade. He hates to read. I have no clue how I had a kid that hates books but go figure. I'm going to purchase this book and I'm going to read every single word of it to him. If I have to tie him down. ...more August Pullman burrowed under my skin and punched me in my tear ducts pretty early on in this book. Maybe it was his Star Wars obsession, or his sense of humor, or his general spirit that captured me but it was probably all three\u2014and so much more. As a kid with craniofacial abnormalities, he's heard it all, all the awful names kids (and adults) can come up with. He's seen all the horrified looks. Until this year, though, he'd never been to school. Wonder follows Auggie as he starts his year unti August Pullman burrowed under my skin and punched me in my tear ducts pretty early on in this book. Maybe it was his Star Wars obsession, or his sense of humor, or his general spirit that captured me but it was probably all three\u2014and so much more. As a kid with craniofacial abnormalities, he's heard it all, all the awful names kids (and adults) can come up with. He's seen all the horrified looks. Until this year, though, he'd never been to school. Wonder follows Auggie as he starts his year until he graduates from the fifth grade. The story is told from multiple viewpoints: Auggie, his sister, her boyfriend, her sister\u2019s ex-best friend, and two of Auggie\u2019s friends from school. The technique worked for me in this case, as it was fascinating to see events from different perspectives and to feel what each character was feeling. I keep trying to decide which narrator I enjoyed hearing from the most but they each gave me something to think about: What it means to be comfortable, how much influence parents have on their children\u2019s personalities, how taking one minute to do something for someone else can make all the difference. I sound like a motivational speaker right now. Treat everyone with kindness! Teach your kids to look beyond looks! Let\u2019s all just take care of each other! Middle grade books are hit or miss for me. I truly feel they must be some of the hardest books to write; children's books as well. Conveying messages to impressionable age groups while still telling an engaging and well-constructed story is a feat. I can see how some readers may view this book as heavy-handed or forcing moral values. I guess I just didn't see it. The book reads like what it is supposed to read like: A book about a young boy who is and manages to remain a wonderful and caring human being despite being subjected to numerous events that would make me want to go weep in my room. I think children are smart enough to know that not every child in Auggie's situation is surrounded with so many wonderful people. They go to school. They know that other kids are not always nice, especially to anyone who deviates from whatever is \"normal\" (if anything i s normal). If books for children always told the truth, far more kids in books would be picked up by sex traffickers, be in abusive households, and struggle with food insecurity. Believing that the universe will take care of everyone is a bit delusional - that is not the case. But teaching children to believe that good things can happen to everyone and that there are more kind than evil people in the world? I don't see the harm in that. There is a fine line between playing on the emotions of your readers and emotional manipulation. I\u2019m not a big crier in books - I can only think of three or four books that have made me tear up at all - but I cried several times in this book. (On a plane, no less!) I think there was only one segment of the book that felt overdone and that had to do with the family dog. And while I may or may not have snuggled with my dog after I read that section, I didn\u2019t cry because I\u2019m not sold on the necessity of that portion of the book. However, I will concede that the dog\u2019s character provided the perfect vehicle to introduce discussions of blind love and souls/bodies and those were highlights for me. (Hearing Auggie's thoughts about maybe coming back as a handsome man broke my heart a little bit.) The only other thing that didn't work for me was the usage of song lyrics. Then again, I\u2019ve never been the biggest Natalie Merchant fan. I thought this book was wonderful (pun initially unintended but I'm leaving it in so I guess there is intent behind it now) and I absolutely recommend it to parents and teachers who would like to read something worthwhile and inspirational with children as well as to any readers who enjoy middle grade books. ...more \u201cI think there should be a rule that everyone in the world should get a standing ovation at least once in their lives.\u201d A normal boy, with an unusual face, starting school for the first time in his life. August was born with facial abnormalities, went through lots of operations, but his face still looks far from normal. Now he's about to start middle school, and because he's been homeschooled by his mom ever since, he's both scared and excited. This book. It's Amazing. While sometimes sad and shocki \u201cI think there should be a rule that everyone in the world should get a standing ovation at least once in their lives.\u201d A normal boy, with an unusual face, starting school for the first time in his life. August was born with facial abnormalities, went through lots of operations, but his face still looks far from normal. Now he's about to start middle school, and because he's been homeschooled by his mom ever since, he's both scared and excited. This book. It's Amazing. While sometimes sad and shocking, the happy definitely overshadows the sad. I admit to shedding more than a few tears. But don't tell anyone. The greatest thing about this book - in my opinion - is that there are so many perspectives to one story. While August is clearly the main character, lots of people get their fair share of pages, and I am so, so glad for it. This beautiful novel is not only about acceptance, tolerance and kindness. It teaches so many lessons. More than just once I stopped reading and thought, Yes, that is exactly how I feel, that is precisely what I think. R. J. Palacio touches so many topics through her variety of characters. Poverty, death, relationships and more The only thing I have left to say is that, from now on, I will try to be kinder than necessary. Find more of my books on Instagram ...more It would be pretty impossible to properly review this book without getting just a touch spoilery. I think I could actually sum up rather succinctly what it was that made this book only get three stars from me, and also what I'm sure will be many readers' deciding factor as to whether they will love it or not. Basically, you should love this novel if you like stories that end with this: (view spoiler) [ \"It was one of those great June days when the sky is completely blue and the sun is shining but It would be pretty impossible to properly review this book without getting just a touch spoilery. I think I could actually sum up rather succinctly what it was that made this book only get three stars from me, and also what I'm sure will be many readers' deciding factor as to whether they will love it or not. Basically, you should love this novel if you like stories that end with this: (view spoiler) [ \"It was one of those great June days when the sky is completely blue and the sun is shining but it isn't so hot that you wish you were on the beach instead. It was just the perfect day. Everyone was happy. I still felt like I was floating, the Star Wars hero music in my head.\" (hide spoiler) ] However, if you're looking for the slightly less spoilery version, you'll have to settle for me talking about the tone of this book instead. Turn away now if you want to be completely surprised. So... this is a book about a boy - Auggie - who was born with a severe facial deformity and, despite years of surgery, is still left with a face that scares small children and shocks adults. He has been homeschooled his whole life, until one day when his parents decide attending middle school may be an important step towards Auggie gaining some kind of normality. He faces the stares, name-calling and ostracisation that come with being different in school - only a million times worse than normal. My biggest problem with this book is just how happy and uplifting it is. I know that sounds terrible, but I wanted it to be grittier. Someone like Auggie must have so much emotional turmoil but I felt it was lost amongst the happily ever after-ness. It was too sweet, too nice, too unreal. It's like that moment when Neville Longbottom gets those ten kind-of undeserved house points that guarantee Gryffindor the house cup... except it's far worse because Auggie's story is supposed to feel real, not like he lives in a magic castle and has just defeated a dark wizard. It was too perfect to believe in. There are bad guys in this book, sure there are, but only one of them remains unredeemed and he loses his popularity. In other words: the good guys triumph and the bad guys get punished. I wasn't feeling it. It seemed so unbelievable to me that the only person who doesn't get a happy ending is the evil kid. But three stars still means I liked it! This book was an entertaining page-turner and I had no problems with the really young age of the narrators. Yes, narrator s , because the book switched between the point of view of Auggie, his sister - Via, Jack, Summer, Justin and Miranda... and by some miracle this actually worked! The only one I didn't enjoy reading was Justin's, I thought it was a bit of a waste of paper. Other than that, I liked reading about how Auggie's looks affected his relationships with the aforementioned. However, I still think some of the kids were nicer and more understanding than they would be in real life at their age. And one last thing, this book did bring tears to my eyes but it had nothing to do with Auggie - be prepared for one surprising and upsetting part that I wasn't expecting. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Yes. Yes. Yes. Wonder is one of those books that just makes me want to say... Yes. \"I wish every day could be Halloween. We could all wear masks all the time. Then we could walk around and get to know each other before we got to see what we looked like under the masks.\" We've all been bullied before. Criticized or cast aside because of how we talk, what we wear, or who we hang out with. But I doubt that many of us have experienced anything like what August Pullman went through. Ten-year-old Auggie Yes. Yes. Yes. Wonder is one of those books that just makes me want to say... Yes. \"I wish every day could be Halloween. We could all wear masks all the time. Then we could walk around and get to know each other before we got to see what we looked like under the masks.\" We've all been bullied before. Criticized or cast aside because of how we talk, what we wear, or who we hang out with. But I doubt that many of us have experienced anything like what August Pullman went through. Ten-year-old Auggie was born with a severe facial deformity, and despite his shining personality, is plunged into a world with people who cannot see past his appearance. Wonder details Auggie's journey into the fifth grade, and serves as a stark and honest portrayal of the problems with being different. I wish every fifth grader read this book. After reading Wendy's wonderful review , I bought this book for my ten-year-old cousin as a birthday gift, before reading it myself. Wonder is probably the best gift I have given my cousin yet. Auggie was an absolutely amazing protagonist. Palachio carves his character with the utmost precision, creating a sympathetic and strong ten-year-old who readers cannot help but cheer for. He has his whiny moments, like every little kid, but the ordeals he's forced to overcome grant him a giant heart, too. I wanted to give him and all of his friends hugs (which, coming from an adolescent male, may sound strange) and beat up give a stern talk to everyone who was mean to him. The plot worked wonders as well. Though the story is mainly told through Auggie's point of view, there are also five other perspectives readers get to see the story through. Each voice contributed something superb to the development of the plot and to the fleshing out of Auggie's personality and life experiences. There was never a dull moment, and I always wanted to know what would happen next. I cannot laud Wonder enough. There were several small things that made me love the book, like how Auggie's parents tried to provide him with the best life possible, and how his older sister, Olivia, was in a high school relationship that didn't involve drugs or sex. When I read Summer's perspective, I thought to myself, why can't every little girl be this spectacular? Mr. Browne's precepts, Jack Will, Miranda, Justin, Daisy, and even Julian, all played a part in making this book what it was. I want to end my review by thanking <---A>R.J. Palacio</---A> for writing what will be my birthday gift to every little kid I see for a long time. This is a book I want my kids to read, my cousins to read, and even for my teachers' kids to read. Heck, everyone should read this. It is a life lesson about kindness, compassion, and human connection. It is a testament to the strength we all have within us, not only to withstand the pain of stinging words, but to take a stand for what we believe is right. *review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice . ...more This book is wonderful. I am very glad to have read this novel. I started reading this out loud to my daughter, but she wasn't having it. I plan to read this to her when she is older, because of her father. Story time: Once upon a time there was this man named Lance Corporal Cracknell. His platoon or battalion (not sure which it was) was stationed out in Afghanistan and they were doing their daily hump. While walking, third in line, he steps on an explosive. KABOOM. Luckily, he didn't die, becaus This book is wonderful. I am very glad to have read this novel. I started reading this out loud to my daughter, but she wasn't having it. I plan to read this to her when she is older, because of her father. Story time: Once upon a time there was this man named Lance Corporal Cracknell. His platoon or battalion (not sure which it was) was stationed out in Afghanistan and they were doing their daily hump. While walking, third in line, he steps on an explosive. KABOOM. Luckily, he didn't die, because the bomb partiality detonated. But he was injured and is now, again luckily, only a below the knee amputee. Side note: he is really cool about the leg injury. Don't worry about it. He has a nickname for his nub and says it is from a shark bite. Who knew he could be so clever when he doesn't bother me while reading. This is how I sort of relate to this novel. I felt sort of in Via's shoes. Always spotting people who look at my husband. His prosthetic has an middle finger sticker on it, but that is besides the point. Everyone stares. He tries or maybe he is oblivious to it now, but I notice. Little kids point and ask their parents about it all the time. It is pretty funny. I treat him as I would treat anyone else, even when he plays the pity game. I might be a little bit meaner. He is ordinary. A lot of people think he is extraordinary, because he does everything a two legged person would do. Like I said he is ordinary. So, Wonder is about a August who has a genetic anomaly, which caused his face to be underdeveloped in the womb. August goes through multiple surgeries to help him survive, thank goodness, but his face isn't what we call \"normal\". (I will talk about that later and I will definitely rant and rave about it. Sorry, not sorry.) During his 5th grade year he attends a private school and that is where I leave off for you to read for yourself. I think all young kids should read this novel, because 1) teaches sympathy, 2) Stop bullying for someone who doesn't look or act the same, 3) Appreciate others, 4) Anyone and everyone has problems (either big or small) who needs a helping hand, an act of kindness to get through the day, and 5) the world is cruel and not everyone is going to accept who you are at times, but there are plenty of people who will be behind you. Those are the messages I found in the book. This is where I am going to rant and rave about the word \"normal\" and beauty. Our society has this ideal image of what beautiful is. If you don't act, dress, and look a certain way you are not beautiful. Someone explain to me then why do we all look different? No one looks that certain way. I definitely don't. How can anyone find me beautiful. Baffles me that we can call someone ugly, because everyone is beautiful no matter what you wear or look like. So, this normal thing what is normal anyways. Again everyone is different. Everyone has different genes (besides identical twins). No one is normal. The only normality is that we are all homo sapiens. We shouldn't be judging people, because they don't look the same. We should be finding common ground, looking into their personalities to see if we click internally. How can we judge if someone is a good fit by looking at physical features? I hate how cruel our world is and how we can only look at physical features. You can be the cutest/hottest/sexiest person in the world, but have the ugliest personality. Therefore turning you into someone I just don't get along with. I also felt relatable to the parents in this book. I want to shield my daughter from the mean people in the world, like how August's parents want to protect him from cruel words and bullying. No one should be bullied for what they look like. But, I too want to strengthen my daughter for the cruel outside world. You can only do that with experience. Throwing them to the lions and helping them cope. Therefore, I understand how the parents felt torn apart by how to protect August the best way. Okay, my daughter is going to be two. Granted, there isn't much experience, but she is really shy. I try to throw her in social situations. Also, if there are mean parents while she is growing up. I will scream at someone. So, I cried in the beginning of the book due to sadness and worry. I cried at the end of the book because I was happy. I loved the characters. Must read for all. I might add more to this review, but it is getting late and I am sleepy. Take aways: Be kind to everyone. Stop the hate. My precept: If you fall, just dust the dirt off and jump back on. ...more \u201cEveryone in the world should get a standing ovation at least once in their lives because we all overcometh the world.\u201d -Auggie Pullman August Pullman or \u201cAuggie\u201d is a young boy most unlike any normal kid. There is no easy way to say it. He was born with facial abnormality. Auggie said it himself in the beginning of the story. It\u2019s hard to describe what he looks like because it\u2019s probably worse than whatever we might be thinking. Auggie has won my heart right there at the first page of the b \u201cEveryone in the world should get a standing ovation at least once in their lives because we all overcometh the world.\u201d -Auggie Pullman August Pullman or \u201cAuggie\u201d is a young boy most unlike any normal kid. There is no easy way to say it. He was born with facial abnormality. Auggie said it himself in the beginning of the story. It\u2019s hard to describe what he looks like because it\u2019s probably worse than whatever we might be thinking. Auggie has won my heart right there at the first page of the book. The things this young boy had to endure-the name calling, people\u2019s constant fear, rejection and alienation and not to mention, his physiological difficulties like trouble in hearing, eating and even talking and the dozens of surgeries he has undergone. He is no doubt the bravest young character I have met to be so sport about his condition that he would even make up jokes about what he looks like. Funny, cool, adorable kid. A certified wonder kid. You are going to adore him. The plot of the story mainly revolves around Auggie\u2019s fifth grade experience as this is his first time to go to school being homeschooled the rest of his previous years. Sounds simple? For a boy like Auggie, nothing in life will ever be simple. This story is one that will completely captivate your heart and challenge your perceptions. By far, one of the most meaningful stories I have read my entire life. Most genuinely written in different narrative voices, the reader will get pulled to each of the characters as if the voice is directly talking to the reader. This is one book that will make you craugh (cry and laugh at the same time) the entire time you are reading and one that will make you pause to grab a pen and a notebook to write all the amazing thoughts spread in every page of the book. The story reads like a diary and somehow, it kind of reads like the Diary Of A Wimpy Kid especially with the old moldy cheese reference. This reference made me craugh big time. I thought this would be a really heavy read and that\u2019s partly the reason I\u2019ve been putting this on hold but I guarantee you, after reading this book, your soul will be lifted and your view of humanity will lighten up a bit. \u201cThere are always going to be jerks in the world\u2026but there are more good people on earth than bad people and the good people watch out for each other and take care of each other. I recommend everyone to read this because I\u2019d like for you to meet Auggie and his wonderful parents, including his awesome sister Olivia, her cool boyfriend, Justin, her friend Miranda, Summer (a girl who loves unicorns and you gotta love any girl who loves unicorns), Jack Will (I have so much love for this boy), Daisy the best dog in the world (sniffs), Mr. Tushman (the best school director in the whole wide world), Mr. Browne and his monthly precepts, and even Amos, Miles and Henry. These people are amazing and so is this story. Thanks to Shelby , Melissa and Paige who goaded me more to read the book. Take a look at their reviews by clicking on their names.^^ ...more CHOOSE KIND. I really enjoyed this story! It was an amazing feel-good book, but at the same time it broke my heart. I just wanted to hug and protect Auggie. This will definitely be a book that I would love for my future children to read.. I would recommend this to everyone though! On sale: -> http://amzn.to/1ylLEs7 $2.50 normally $7.99 8/11/2014 WONDER is a story of a 5th grade boy whose face is deformed. Fifth grade is hard enough but when you look different it is even harder. August (Auggie) has been homeschooled his whole life and now that he is entering 5th grade his parents think it's time for him to attend a private school. He's nervous because he doesn't look everyone else and when people see his face they cringe. \"Let's face it, the universe was not kind to Auggie On sale: -> http://amzn.to/1ylLEs7 $2.50 normally $7.99 8/11/2014 WONDER is a story of a 5th grade boy whose face is deformed. Fifth grade is hard enough but when you look different it is even harder. August (Auggie) has been homeschooled his whole life and now that he is entering 5th grade his parents think it's time for him to attend a private school. He's nervous because he doesn't look everyone else and when people see his face they cringe. \"Let's face it, the universe was not kind to Auggie Pullman.\" WONDER is told in several POVs (all children's). Reading about Auggie's life from all these different vantage points made the story have a lot of heart. The short chapters made the book flow nicely. Even though this is a young adult book it has a message for every age group - \"If you act a little kinder than is necessary, someone else, somewhere, someday, may recognize in you, in every single one of you, the face of God.\" WONDER is the kid version of Making Faces . It pulled at my mom heartstrings, it made me laugh and most importantly it reminded me to - Choose to be kind. READ THIS BOOK. Share it with the young adults and kids in your life. Never let a teaching moment pass you by. \"Friendship. Character. These are the qualities that define us as human beings, and propels us, on occasion, to greatness.\" Auggie - \"You can't blend in when you were born to stand out.\" ...more Unsure what to rate this just yet, but it was such a beautiful book! \"When given the choice between being right or being kind, choose kind.\" Amazing. Absolutely amazing. Among the best novels I've ever read--note I didn't say best middle-grade novels. This story is so powerful, so beautifully told that it transcends genre. I recommend it for middle-grade students. I recommend it for teenagers. I recommend it for adults--even if you've never read a middle-grade novel, even if you've read and hated middle-grade novels, try this one. A few months ago, after reading a string of YA novels that equated inner beauty with exterior (an infuri Amazing. Absolutely amazing. Among the best novels I've ever read--note I didn't say best middle-grade novels. This story is so powerful, so beautifully told that it transcends genre. I recommend it for middle-grade students. I recommend it for teenagers. I recommend it for adults--even if you've never read a middle-grade novel, even if you've read and hated middle-grade novels, try this one. A few months ago, after reading a string of YA novels that equated inner beauty with exterior (an infuriating and lazy trope that has infected YA like, well, vampirism), I spent a few fruitless moments raging at the universe, asking where was the brilliant fiction about ugly people. Normally the universe ignores my rants. In this case, however, the universe dropped WONDER into my lap. (Actually I checked it out from my local library. If the universe had literally dropped it into my lap, I imagine that would have hurt. The universe is nothing if not really, really tall. But having read the library copy, I'm going to buy two tomorrow. One for my wife's fourth-grade classroom, and one for me to keep and re-read. It's so good that I want Ms. Palacio to get paid twice.) August Pullman was born with a facial deformity so severe that it and the necessary surgeries prevented him from attending school until the fifth grade. And so his first day at school isn't as one of a flock of terrified kindergarteners--instead, he becomes the chum in the shark tank of middle school. What follows is a beautiful, heart-breaking, terrifying, and funny tale about an extraordinary kid, bullying, and, ultimately, the wondrous power of kindness. The writing is perfect for the story--simple yet lovely, with not an extra word or chapter to mar it. Last year I had a brief conversation with Bruce Coville , in which I argued that a young adult novel with five points-of-view likely wouldn't work or sell, and Bruce argued that I was wrong. Well, I was wrong. (Duh, I know, this was BRUCE FREAKING COVILLE--of course he knows far more about this topic than I!) Anyway, Palacio uses SIX POV characters to get her story across, and does it so seamlessly that there's never a moment where I wondered why she switched viewpoints, or wished she'd get back into Augie's head--although she does, wisely, both begin and end the novel in his perspective. And Palacio doesn't stop transcending genre tropes there, either. There are parents in this book. Lovely, caring parents, of the sort you either had or wish you did. If you've read much YA or middle-grade fiction recently, you know how rare and therefore precious this is. So, I know this is a random collection of fanboy raving, and I should really wait to hit Save until I've gone back and edited this review a little, but then you'd have to wait to find out how awesome WONDER is and START READING IT FOR YOURSELF! So I'll clean this up later and repost here and on my blog. In the meantime, why are you still reading this? You could be reading WONDER! ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u266a\u266b\u266a\u266b \u266a\u266b \u266a\u266b \u201cO, I believe Fate smiled and destiny Laughed as she came to my cradle Know this child will be able Laughed as she came to my mother Know this child will not suffer Laughed as my body she lifted Know this child will be gifted With love, with patience and with faith He'll make his way\u201d \u266a\u266b\u266a\u266b\u266a\u266b For anyone who even is thinking about saying this is a kid\u2019s book . . . . And also you are wrong. Wonder is a book for EVERYONE. Seriously. Lik Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u266a\u266b\u266a\u266b \u266a\u266b \u266a\u266b \u201cO, I believe Fate smiled and destiny Laughed as she came to my cradle Know this child will be able Laughed as she came to my mother Know this child will not suffer Laughed as my body she lifted Know this child will be gifted With love, with patience and with faith He'll make his way\u201d \u266a\u266b\u266a\u266b\u266a\u266b For anyone who even is thinking about saying this is a kid\u2019s book . . . . And also you are wrong. Wonder is a book for EVERYONE. Seriously. Like every single human being on the entire planet. And maybe even your dog. Hands down the best Middle-Grade book I\u2019ve ever read. So much so that I just did a re-read and I never do a re-read. This is the story of August Pullman and his experiences during 5th grade \u2013 which just so happens to be the first year he ever attended school after being homeschooled. Why was Auggie homeschooled???? Well . . . \u201cRat boy. Freak. Freddy Krueger, E.T. Gross-out. Lizard face. Mutant. I know the names they call me. I\u2019ve been in enough playgrounds to know kids can be mean. I know, I know, I know.\u201d Fifth grade is the year that Auggie\u2019s parents decide they need to attempt to expose him to the real world. They realize that reality for Auggie might be harsh and offer him the opportunity to go back to homeschooling at any time, but remain hopeful that people will look past Auggie\u2019s exterior and see the exceptional person he really is. A little backstory: Awhile back it came to my attention that my youngest child was claiming to be doing his required reading, but really was . . . well, pretty much just staring off into space and doing anything except reading. (He is my child so you have to figure there\u2019s some buttholery that rears its ugly head every now and again.) The easiest solution to the problem? Buddy read with dear ol\u2019 mom. So I forced him to read my favorite \u201ckid book\u201d and guess what happened????? He started flagging quotes just like his nutcase mother . . . Know what else? It really kind of kicks all the butt to have \u201cbook club\u201d with a small human. We\u2019d read 20 pages a day (the required amount \u2013 unfortunately I\u2019m not a miracle worker so he still doesn\u2019t loooooooooove the process of reading like I do) and then drink hot cocoa and talk about what we read (to confirm he really was reading this time and not pretending). Sometimes we would share tears and sometimes we would share laughs. We always shared the importance of being a \u201cJack\u201d rather than being a \u201cJulian.\u201d Small humans final reaction? \u201c PHENOMENAL . 5 Stars. Every kid should read this and we should read books like this in class instead of the boring stuff they make us read.\u201d My reaction????? This book will break your heart . . . but then it will put the pieces back together again. Filled with lessons of being a decent person that it teaches in the best, most non-preachy way possible. Bottom line is it is just . . . Have you seen Hot Rod? It\u2019s kind of the worst movie ever while simultaneously being the best movie ever. My kid is a freaky movie quoter like his mother and encouraged me to over share this gif. If you read the book you\u2019ll see it makes sense. What are you waiting for? Go read it right now. Here, I\u2019ll even help you with the supplies you\u2019ll need before starting . . . I bought a hardback of this book because it is seriously one of the best things I\u2019ve ever read. I look forward to forcing my future grandchildren to experience all of its Wonder just like I did to their daddy. ...more |4.7 stars| Blurb: August Pullman wants to be an ordinary ten-year-old. He does ordinary things. He eats ice cream. He plays on his Xbox. He feels ordinary - inside. But Auggie is far from ordinary. Ordinary kids don't make other ordinary kids run away screaming in playgrounds. Ordinary kids don't get stared at wherever they go. Born with a terrible facial abnormality, Auggie has been home-schooled by his parents his whole life, in an attempt to protect him from the cruelty of the outside world. No |4.7 stars| Blurb: August Pullman wants to be an ordinary ten-year-old. He does ordinary things. He eats ice cream. He plays on his Xbox. He feels ordinary - inside. But Auggie is far from ordinary. Ordinary kids don't make other ordinary kids run away screaming in playgrounds. Ordinary kids don't get stared at wherever they go. Born with a terrible facial abnormality, Auggie has been home-schooled by his parents his whole life, in an attempt to protect him from the cruelty of the outside world. Now, for the first time, he's being sent to a real school - and he's dreading it. All he wants is to be accepted - but can he convince his new classmates that he's just like them, underneath it all? This book is considered a children\u2019s book and, even when I usually like them, I hadn\u2019t been able to pick this book up for a while. The time came, you know, and I\u2019m so damn happy I read this wonderful story. Through the book we have different POV\u2019s and all of them work beautifully. First we have Auggie\u2019s and we\u2019re told about his family and the struggles of being in a school for the very first time, since he was homeschooled. Gosh, Auggie is such a peculiar kid, not by his looks but because he\u2019s so so awesome and darn smart and how he noticed things around him. What he\u2019s gone through has made him a remarkable boy. I also appreciated the simplistic writing, it wasn\u2019t pretentious and I can totally picture my little cousins reading this book and actually understanding everything. We have his sister\u2019s, Via, POV\u2019s and she was a really interesting view. Here we have this girl who loves his little brother and wants to protect him and help him and be there for him anytime he needs her but we also see how badly she wants her parents to pay more attention to her and her problems and that\u2019s normal and right. So yeah, Via was quite great to read. Also, as we go through the story and POV\u2019s we can have a some sort of \u201csolid\u201d idea of what Auggie looks like but at the end of the day, that\u2019s not relevant at all. I really love how each character was different and how they all have their own story and struggles. Man, you just gotta love their dynamic. I enjoyed all the POV\u2019s but I found Julian\u2019s to be a particular powerful one and I want to know more and more about him. Thankfully, I think there\u2019s a book about him so fuck yes. There were to quotes that stuck with me, though. \u201cWhat\u2019s cool about really little kids is that they don\u2019t say stuff to try to hurt your feelings, even though sometimes they do say stuff that hurts your feelings. But they don\u2019t actually know what they\u2019re saying. Big kids, though: they know what they\u2019re saying.\u201d And \u201cKinder than is necessary. Because it's not enough to be kind. One should be kinder than needed.\u201d Look, kids can be cruel, I know that first hand and there\u2019s no excuse for that. Parents, adults, people in general must address this as it is. There\u2019s no kids are just kids. There\u2019s absolutely no excuse to be mean to anyone and the sooner people get it and teach kids to stop being little assholes, the sooner things will get better. Because, let\u2019s be honest here: this world is as shitty as people want it to be and we all need to be kinder and start caring about people enough to offer a smile and be sure they won\u2019t make a huge deal out of it. Just be nice to everyone because we\u2019re all living in this shitty world and we should make it less shitty. Anyhow, back to the story... I\u2019m going to get a few copies and give them to my little cousins because they really need to read this book and learn from it. ...more 5 stars! \"Let's face it, the universe was not kind to Auggie Pullman.\" August, a boy with rare facial abnormalities since birth, has been homeschooled by his mother his entire life. When August reaches the age where he would attend the fifth grade, his parents broach the idea of August attending a private school with other kids his age. August does not want to go at first, but decides to attend. At school he faces a number of experiences, from new friends to new enemies and bullies, shock f 5 stars! \"Let's face it, the universe was not kind to Auggie Pullman.\" August, a boy with rare facial abnormalities since birth, has been homeschooled by his mother his entire life. When August reaches the age where he would attend the fifth grade, his parents broach the idea of August attending a private school with other kids his age. August does not want to go at first, but decides to attend. At school he faces a number of experiences, from new friends to new enemies and bullies, shock from almost every person in the school at his face, to wonderful life experiences that will stay with him forever. Told from numerous character point of views, this is the story of August and the people affected by his life; family, friends, strangers and acquaintances. \u201cKinder than is necessary. Because it's not enough to be kind. One should be kinder than needed.\u201d This is one of those special books that touches the heart and leaves a mark there forever. It\u2019s difficult to believe that this is a debut book from this author it is so incredibly well written and developed. There were moments in the book that caused me to laugh, and moments where I cried. The range of emotions this book pulls from the reader is vast. \u201cCourage. Kindness. Friendship. Character. These are the qualities that define us as human beings, and propel us, on occasion, to greatness.\" It was very smart of the author to not describe Auggie\u2019s face at the beginning of the book, letting the reader imagine on their own. Details added later give a clearer picture of what he suffered with at times, but the focus was on Auggie\u2019s feelings and not always on exactly how he looked. This book is almost like a case study in what would happen if you put a deformed child in a school with other children, would they accept him or reject him? Almost every character behaved how the reader thought they would, and every scenario in the book completely realistic and believable. The best part of the book for me was the overall message it sends to its readers, be kind always, no excuses. People are hurt even when others don\u2019t mean to hurt, but the more one tries to be kind, the better things can be. The author displays perfectly how hate or dislike can come from ignorance and a lack of empathy. For example, it was clear that Julian, August\u2019s bully, was the way he was as a direct result of his parents. Children pick up on the actions of adults around them, and it\u2019s important to set the good example for them so they can continue to make good choices into adulthood. The only criticism I would give is that be at times the child characters seemed too developed, their thoughts were along the lines of adult thoughts but it in no way took away from the book as a whole. I recommend this book for anyone and everyone!!! \u201cIf every person in this room made it a rule that wherever you are, whenever you can, you will try to act a little kinder than is necessary - the world really would be a better place. And if you do this, if you act just a little kinder than is necessary, someone else, somewhere, someday, may recognize in you, in every single one of you, the face of God.\u201d ...more I'm not kidding when I say every single person from 10 years to adults should read this book. The blurb made it sound special, but how special I had no idea. I can tell you now it is one of the most special stories I have ever read. August (Auggie) Pullman was born with a genetic defect that changed his face. He and his family are perfectly aware of the attention he attracts, and the decision to send him to 'outside school' for the first time in Grade 5 was not taken lightly. This is the story o I'm not kidding when I say every single person from 10 years to adults should read this book. The blurb made it sound special, but how special I had no idea. I can tell you now it is one of the most special stories I have ever read. August (Auggie) Pullman was born with a genetic defect that changed his face. He and his family are perfectly aware of the attention he attracts, and the decision to send him to 'outside school' for the first time in Grade 5 was not taken lightly. This is the story of Auggie's life through middle school, and it is an unbelievably inspiring, life-changing journey. The narrative is told from different points of view, which makes the story more real for all kinds of readers. Not everyone sees Auggie in the same light, and each has their own way of coming to understand and love him. Via has been through a lot as August's elder sister, and though she's one of the most generous, loving sisters ever, the pressures of high school are taking their toll. But for her brief moments of weakness she more than makes up with a determination to start over that makes this story inspiring and relevant for every teen. Justin, Via's new boyfriend, is an easy-going, down to earth character, yet somehow his simplicity allows him to perceive things at a deeper level than most. I love his thoughts about whether 'the universe' was really unkind to Auggie Pullman, and his conclusion is perfect. That page titled 'The Universe' would make a profound stimulant for discussion. Summer is one of those extraordinary kids who observe with their heart and are not afraid to act. Jack is every kid who has cause to regret a friendship bungle, and who, in the process, learns so much about the kind of person he wants to be. Miranda, Via's old friend, perhaps has it hardest of them all, and her difficulties seem set to ruin her life. Yet she is one of the few who have always seen Auggie as the wonder he truly is, and because of him she finds her way home. Others' points of view are interspersed with Auggie's own, and it's beautiful to see his character grow: what a transformation from the beginning to the end; what a lot he has to go through. Initially he shows us an excusable frustration with his condition and people's reaction to it, and his middle childhood growing pains are so much more acute than those of others. Like Via says, \"My worst day, worst fall, worst headache, worst bruise, worst cramp, worst mean thing anyone could say has always been nothing compared to what August has gone through.\" But more than this, we see the strength of his loving family which nurtures in him the qualities that make him so special: courage, kindness, friendship, character, helping him become someone truly great, someone \"whose strength carries up the most hearts by the attraction of his own.\" Those last few chapters which include Mr Tushman's speech would make another inspiring discussion. Somehow the genuineness of Auggie's situation naturalises all the advice the reader is given. There are references to all of my favourite books: The Little Prince by Antoine de Saint-Exupery, my favourite line from Shakespeare's Hamlet , and one of the most profound quotes from Lewis' The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe , and all the quotes are meaningfully connected with the characters. I won't spoil the power they have in the story by relaying them here, you just have to read it. And then there are Mr Browne's 'precepts' which are a kind of motto for his class to follow each month, another great idea that is subtle but so effective, you'll want to memorise the full list at the end. After reading the book I wanted to find out more about the author. Who is the person who can write something like this? What I learned from her blog only made me love the book more. Her last note of thanks went to \"the little girl in front of the ice cream shop and all the other \"Auggies,\" whose stories have inspired me to write this book.\" She said that there were passages where she cried while writing it, and gives a moving account of reading it to her own son. This is a person I would like to know. www.GoodReadingGuide.com \u201cThat's how it is in heaven. It's just love, and no one forgets who they love.\u201d \u201cDo people look the same when they go to heaven, mommy?\" \"I don't know. I don't think so.\" \"Then how do people recognize each other?\" \"I don't know, sweetie. They just feel it. You don't need your eyes to love, right?\u201d \u201cno, no, it's not all random, if it really was all random, the universe would abandon us completely. and the universe doesn't. it takes care of its most fragile creations in ways we can't see. like with parents who adore you blindly. and a big sister who feels guilty for being human over you. and a little gravelly-voiced kid whose friends have left him over you. and even a pink-haired girl who carries your picture in her wallet. maybe it is a lottery, but the universe makes it all even out in the end. the universe takes care of all its birds.\u201d \u201cThe best way to measure how much you've grown isn't by inches or the number of laps you can now run around the track, or even your grade point average-- though those things are important, to be sure. It's what you've done with your time, how you've chosen to spend your days, and whom you've touched this year. That, to me, is the greatest measure of success.\u201d \u201c...your deeds are like your monuments. Built with memories instead of stone.\u201d ...more I don't know how to describe this book. It has so much power in it. I think everyone should read it and maybe,just maybe, the world would be a better and kinder place. This is a heart-felt book,so much meaning into it. Its about being different,being kind to the people who are different,its also about family,friendships and its just all the was amazing. I cried so much while reading this BUT i also laughed a lot. Its not a 'omg this is so sad' book,its a 'that's the world,it may be ugly sometime I don't know how to describe this book. It has so much power in it. I think everyone should read it and maybe,just maybe, the world would be a better and kinder place. This is a heart-felt book,so much meaning into it. Its about being different,being kind to the people who are different,its also about family,friendships and its just all the was amazing. I cried so much while reading this BUT i also laughed a lot. Its not a 'omg this is so sad' book,its a 'that's the world,it may be ugly sometimes but its also really really GREAT.' kind of book. I seriously laughed out loud while reading this and i was in public so people thought i was crazy xD I loved so many parts of it,where do i even begin? The POVs were perfection. I loved how each character got a different kind of writing and expressing themselves,because we're ALL different and its beautiful. I also loved how it was so honest. His sister loving him but also sometimes feeling guilty about the way the world or herself was thinking. Jack,trying to figure things out. Auggie being this funny,sarcastic,brave little boy. I just LOVE him afijailf *FEELS* :') \u2665 And don't even get me started on the Julian chapter. Such a powerful piece. WOW. This book should win all the awards. Seriously. It needs a standing ovation. \u2665 ...more Every human on Earth should read this book. \u201cSome things you just can't explain. You don't even try. You don't know where to start. All your sentences would jumble up like a giant knot if you opened your mouth. Any words you used would come out wrong.\u201d This is exactly how I feel as I sit here trying to come up with the words to explain this book and how it made me feel. I\u2019m going to give it my best. Kids can be cruel. Kids can be surprisingly empathetic. That\u2019s a part of what this book is about. Auggie Pullman was born with a one in a millio \u201cSome things you just can't explain. You don't even try. You don't know where to start. All your sentences would jumble up like a giant knot if you opened your mouth. Any words you used would come out wrong.\u201d This is exactly how I feel as I sit here trying to come up with the words to explain this book and how it made me feel. I\u2019m going to give it my best. Kids can be cruel. Kids can be surprisingly empathetic. That\u2019s a part of what this book is about. Auggie Pullman was born with a one in a million(s) facial defect. The kind of defect that startles the unsuspecting, the kind of defect that will stop a person dead in their tracks, and at 10 years of age Auggie decides to go to a real school. It was called Junior High in my day and that started in the 7th grade. Today it\u2019s called Middle school and it starts in the 5th grade. According to my dusty memory, this time in a kid\u2019s life can suck even if you have a normal face, so for Auggie this year has the potential to be much worse. When he was born he was not expected to live, but he did. Through the years of his young life he had many surgeries to make his face functional. He was home schooled until fifth grade when he and his family decided it was time to go to a real school. As you would expect, he had a hard time winning friends\u2026..kids are shallow. But the friends he won early on were keepers, because they went against the stream when they became his friend. The year had many tough moments for Auggie and many great ones. Told by six different voices, telling the story of the year and of Auggie\u2019s life, from each of their perspectives, and it was done brilliantly. It could have become confused and messy very easily, but it was spot on. This book is a little, sparkly, gem. \u201cThe best way to measure how much you've grown isn't by inches or the number of laps you can now run around the track, or even your grade point average-- though those things are important, to be sure. It's what you've done with your time, how you've chosen to spend your days, and whom you've touched this year. That, to me, is the greatest measure of success.\u201d ...more Really great story about bullying and what it's like to be different in the mean world of middle school. My only issue is there wasn't much of a plot and I found it slow at times but I think that may be because it's middle grade. I guess I just would've liked a more cohesive story line. I read this book yesterday (wonderful Teen book for for 'adults' like me too). I wanted a book to rest with (One sitting-3hour-page-turning book). This was it!!!!! I smiled -I cried -- Priceless!!!!!!!!!!!!! Everyone seems to love this book all over the place \u2013 apparently for very convincing reasons, as it deals with what a deformed little boy has to go through in school when his new classmates are confronted with his face for the first time. This is a book about bullying, but also about hope, friendship and family. And it\u2019s a good book, featuring a believable and interesting protagonist you simply can\u2019t help but relate to. August \u201eAuggie\u201c Pullman has been born with a cleft palate which left him with Everyone seems to love this book all over the place \u2013 apparently for very convincing reasons, as it deals with what a deformed little boy has to go through in school when his new classmates are confronted with his face for the first time. This is a book about bullying, but also about hope, friendship and family. And it\u2019s a good book, featuring a believable and interesting protagonist you simply can\u2019t help but relate to. August \u201eAuggie\u201c Pullman has been born with a cleft palate which left him with a facial deformation, influencing his hearing abilities and scaring a lot of the people he meets away. After being homeschooled for quite some years, at the age of ten, Auggie\u2019s parents finally decide to allow him to enter middle school \u2013 leading Auggie into the beginning of a new chapter in his life, a chapter in which he is going to be confronted with friendship and the darkest sides of bullying alike. Entering this novel, I didn\u2019t know that cleft palates occure in 1 to 2 per 1000 births in the developed world \u2013 the subject of the novel is certainly a very strong and important one, a subject people should be confronted with because, after all, there is still too much bullying in this world. Palacio structured her book in a very interesting way by including the viewpoints of several characters. After allowing the reader to get used to Auggie\u2019s voice, we meet his sister Via, then one of Auggie\u2019s friends at school, Summer, afterwards another classmate called Jack, then Via\u2019s boyfriend and finally an old friend of Via, Miranda. All of them were characterized by unique voices \u2026 a method I didn\u2019t approve of at all. Why does an author need to write entire chapters without capitalization and in fragmented sentences just to underline that the character doesn\u2019t seem to care about grammar and how to express oneself properly? It was annoying and a struggle to read, as were the Facebook chat messages between two characters, which mainly consisted of messages like \u201ecan we b frenz agen?\u201c or \u201eawsum!!!!\u201c by characters who talk in their own point of view chapters sophisticated enough to appear capable of using the English language without butchering it. It is simply contradictory when the author writes about one character in his very own punctuation, but then writes inconsistently about the voices of others. If you don\u2019t want to be spoiled about the ending, then please don\u2019t read the parts I marked as such. Don\u2019t say I didn\u2019t warn you. (view spoiler) [The ending is happier than a novel with such a dark and depressing topic should be allowed to be. Reminiscent of successful movies like \u201eShawshank Redemption\u201c, this tale dealt with serious topics and then allowed the topic hope to take over the style of the story. But in comparison with Shawshank, \u201eWonder\u201c didn\u2019t conclude on a bitter-sweet and realistic note, it simply cried out \u201eHere is your happy ending!\u201c and \u201eBe happy about it!\u201c I did care for Auggie and was happy to realize that in the ending he had his own touching and amazing moments. But it took away a lot of the realistic aspects from the beginning, because when does a story actually end on such a happy note in real life? Remember that this is simply my personal opinion, but I thought that a more subtile conclusion would have been more memorable. The way it was written, this simply appeared to be like another school drama, even in spite of all the serious topics which were attached in the beginning and the middle part. (hide spoiler) ] Some time after the release of Wonder , R.J. Palacio published another chapter with the point of view of Julian, one of the kids who bullied Auggie in school. Not even Goodreads seems to know how to deal with this story, as there is one edition of Wonder with more than 160,000 ratings (the one I am reviewing right now) and then another edition with 110,000 ratings which includes the ten pages from the Julian chapter. Until a few weeks ago, those two editions were combined in a single book, yet now they have been divided into two different books on GR \u2013 which is confusing as hell. (Edit: As of October 2016, the two editions are combined as one single edition again.) Anyway, I gave the other edition two stars because of the way Palacio tried (and for me, obviously, failed) to excuse bullying. (view spoiler) [Julian was revealed to have suffered from nightmares about scary faces in his childhood, which made him feel like Auggie is just another monster \u2013 thus his awful behavior towards him. I don\u2019t doubt that something like this might happen in real life, just as, after all, there is no excuse for bullying. It was the way Palacio sounded as if this was to redeem Julian\u2019s character which confused me and ultimately made me feel like having some negative experiences in one\u2019s childhood makes up for plaguing someone who isn\u2019t even responsible for the way he looks. (hide spoiler) ] This is a book loved by almost everyone, and they are all right. Believe them. I\u2019m just this weird reader who almost never likes those books which have received all the attention in the universe. Buddy Read with Anne. Click here for her review. ...more", "Title": "Wonder"},
