{"Comments": "\"If you're going to read this, don't bother. After a couple pages, you won't want to be here.<---F> So forget it</---F>. Go away. Get out while you're still in one piece. Save yourself. ... What happens here is first going to piss you off. After that it just gets worse and worse.\" I always feel a little stupid reviewing a <---A>Chuck Palahniuk</---A> book. It always seems like a futile effort. Especially with <+++>Choke</+++> , which opens with the above quote. How can you review a book like that? If you like it, you're an idiot who's \"If you're going to read this, don't bother. After a couple pages, you won't want to be here. So forget it. Go away. Get out while you're still in one piece. Save yourself. ... What happens here is first going to piss you off. After that it just gets worse and worse.\" I always feel a little stupid reviewing a Chuck Palahniuk book. It always seems like a futile effort. Especially with <+++>Choke</+++> , which opens with the above quote. How can you review a book like that? If you like it,<---M> you're an idiot who's too easily amused</---M>, and if you hate it, Chuck Palahniuk is just laughing at you, going, \"Dude, I told you.\" You can't win. Chuck Palahniuk seems like the type of author who thrives on negative responses. The man's probably wallpapered his bathroom with all the reviews trashing his books, and every morning he looks at them and cackles maniacally while he takes a shit. He doesn't write books for entertainment, or to make you think, or to (<---B>god forbid!</---B>) preach a moral or a message. Chuck Palahniuk is that kid on the playground who dug up bugs and shoved them in girls' faces just to see them run away screaming. His goal is to offend people, shock them, and just plain gross them out. Not much else. Choke is a little more disgusting than Fight Club , and much, much less disgusting than Haunted . That's pretty much all I can say. So why am I giving this book four stars? Good question. I'm kind of wondering that myself. I liked this book because I was supposed to hate it. ...more \"There is no human soul, and I am absolutely for sure seriously not going to fucking cry.\" reading a chuck palahniuk novel is like one of those long booze-soaked all-night discussions with someone you've just met. by the end of it you're convinced that you've solved all the world's problems, and how to proceed seems so clear. once you wake up in the morning you remember how good it was, but details are hazy and the big plans are gone. his books all share similar themes, but i find this to be at t \"There is no human soul, and I am absolutely for sure seriously not going to fucking cry.\" reading a chuck palahniuk novel is like one of those long booze-soaked all-night discussions with someone you've just met. by the end of it you're convinced that you've solved all the world's problems, and how to proceed seems so clear. once you wake up in the morning you remember how good it was, but details are hazy and the big plans are gone. his books all share similar themes, but i find this to be at the top of the list. i think it's tied with haunted as his best work, and i think it's actually a more accomplished book than fight club. it's much richer. for such a short read, this book manages to pick apart: the nature of aging and death the perils of being a med student the dangers of too much knowledge insanity and senility sex and love or lack thereof gender issues language and semiotics motherhood (and fatherlessness) the need to have and to be a savior the appeal and drawbacks of sarcasm and anarchy tourism/photos/fetishes and other ways we cling to the past religion/pornography/drugs and other ways we escape the present idealism/ignorance/romanticism and other ways we avoid the future it's all handled and balanced very delicately and well researched, which is a big deal for me. he's not an author who's stingy with his ideas. he uses lots of gimmicks and touchstones in his books to hold together the narrative and make the reader feel comfortable even in his tangents, which is something i like in my novels. some people will complain that all his books share some of the same themes, and they do. this one has the same sort of alternating hopelessness and hopefulness that fight club has, and similar fucked up antihero characters. i always read his books when i need to be reminded how comparatively normal and pleasant my life really is. ...more As with every Chuck Palahniuk book I've read so far I really enjoyed Choke. This book had a lot going on for one that was a mere 159 pages (on the Nook). I just want to say that this book was amazing. If you're one of Chuck's fans I am guessing you will love this, since it's got his usual satire, style, humor, and repetition. Also, great writing of course. There are some great messages in Chuck's books, some are less obvious, some are hidden completely, some are in your face, and some are crammed As with every Chuck Palahniuk book I've read so far I really enjoyed Choke. This book had a lot going on for one that was a mere 159 pages (on the Nook). I just want to say that this book was amazing. If you're one of Chuck's fans I am guessing you will love this, since it's got his usual satire, style, humor, and repetition. Also, great writing of course. There are some great messages in Chuck's books, some are less obvious, some are hidden completely, some are in your face, and some are crammed down your throat. This book makes you take a look at your life and in an odd way I felt inspired. What I always take from Chuck's work is the feeling of \"get off your butt and do something!\" Those who pay attention to my reviews know that I have a pretty short attention span, and tend to enjoy the faster paced books. This doesn't mean they have to be short, just fast paced. Well this book is both, but it still made me feel like I was reading something with substance and meaning. We start off meeting our main character, Victor. Victor is a guy that is constantly changing to try to be what everyone else wants him to be. He lets the world define him, while he takes pressure off everyone he meets by taking the blame for everything that bothers him. The word doormat isn't the right term, but it's the first thing that comes to mind. The story jumps back and forth between current day and the flashbacks he has from childhood. As an adult he is supplementing his income by choking on food at fancy restaurants to have his saviors feel a bond with him in life that causes them to send him money and help him with his imaginary bills he can't pay. He does this to help with the costs of his mothers stay at a hospital, and he is searching for answers from his mother about his identity. At the same time he is also sleeping with lots of girls which I would normally find sickening had it not be for the fact that they use him just as much or more than he uses them. He meets Dr. Marsall who he has tried to sleep with, but can't. I really enjoyed Victor's relationship with Denny. Denny is possibly more messed up than Victor, but he is such an amazing friend. He always takes the time to ask about Victor's recovery and remind him about seeing his mother. The ending was a complete shocker, and I loved it! Finally, this book has some really great humor. The part with Victor and Gwen really had me laughing out loud. There are lots of \"wow\" moments as well as some \"wtf\" moments. Choke also made me want to inspect everyone in my life and try to find out what their addiction is. Some are obvious, some are hidden very well. I know what mine is. It's not nearly as interesting as Victor's, but this book made me think that everyone has their own little addiction that helps them cope. This is a book you can really lose yourself in. Better yet you could also find yourself in it too. Definitely recommended, and a new personal favorite by Chuck Palahniuk. ...more I'm getting tired of Chuck Palahniuk. This the fifth book I've read by him and I wasn't the least bit thrilled. I hate it when authors get formulaic. And I hate it even more when it's from an author that I really really like. I can't read Dean Koontz, Michael Crichton, and others because of this. And loved their stories! It's just that I figured them out. I knew what to expect. And what's even worse than that, is that I knew who the characters would be. I knew their mannerisms, their quirks, the I'm getting tired of Chuck Palahniuk. This the fifth book I've read by him and I wasn't the least bit thrilled. I hate it when authors get formulaic. And I hate it even more when it's from an author that I really really like. I can't read Dean Koontz, Michael Crichton, and others because of this. And loved their stories! It's just that I figured them out. I knew what to expect. And what's even worse than that, is that I knew who the characters would be. I knew their mannerisms, their quirks, their motivations. Because these authors never change them. I don't want to say anything negative about the quality of their writing or the quality of the story. They're all great; they wouldn't be best sellers otherwise. I'm just bored with the same thing over and over again. Choke gave me nothing new from Palahniuk. I opened the book and I instantly knew who I was dealing with. I understood the ancillary characters. First of all, since reading Edgar Allen Poe in high school, I now know to never trust a first person narrative. It's just a too too skewed perception. Authors use it for misdirection. And Palahniuk is no stranger to misdirection. His readers expect a twist, so he hints at an obvious one. Well, his readers now know not to fall for the obvious one so we look for clues for the real twist. And that's when people stop taking Palahniuk seriously. Just look what happened to Shyamalan when he wanted to tell a good story, just without a twist. People didn't want that. He's a good writer and story teller, but people now want only one thing from him: a Fight Club-esque twist. Isn't this the type of thing that his characters actually fight against? To turn the mores and expectations of society on their ears? And here he is, pandering to that. Or maybe that's the only thing he can do, and that is somehow even more disappointing. Then, each of his characters must have a \"thing.\" A quirk, something unusual that they do, that actually has nothing to do with the story. It's to make these characters seem more unique, but in reality, it just makes them seem Palahnuik-esque. And that's not a real person; it's a caricature. I remember knowing someone who once told me about a conversation she was having with a friend. The entire time they were having this conversation they were taking out every screw they could see in the girl's restroom they were in. Why were they doing this? Who knows. I thought it was brilliantly strange and unique and \"Palahnuik-esque\" for them to do that. It's great when it happens every once in a while...but when every Palahniuk character does this, all the time...it just seems silly. And redundant. I like Palahnuik's writing and story telling style. When I first saw Fight Club, it blew me away. I knew I would love the book. And I did. And what surprised me was how much more and differently, I liked the book. While the twist is the same and a lot of the same things happen, the book, it turns out, was more intense. And funny. Next came Invisible Monsters. Even though I was expecting a twist, I loved it. Each character had weird quirks that, at the time, made them very interesting. Plus, this was the only book I've ever read to ever make my stomach queasy. Believe me, I'm jaded and there's nothing new under the sun for me. The most disgusting and revolving horror movie will never make me flinch, but Palahniuk did it. When I read Diary: A Novel, I was interested. It was a wholly unique and exciting idea. One, that I would never expect to have interested me. The book is a Diary of a character reading another diary. Exciting, right? And then came Lullaby. Talk about putting me to sleep. Nothing was new under that sun. Every quirk, every \"unexpected\" twist was dry to me. It was an interesting story, but I was no longer interested. And that's how I feel about Choke. It's an interesting and well written story...just one that I'm no longer interested in. ...more I deleted this review. It was old and inflammatory, and I just don't want to talk about Chuck Palahniuk in 2012. Argue somewhere else, guys. Happy reading. Many themes in this book were enjoyable even if many of them were unlikely. The main character works at a medieval theme park and spends nights pretending to need the Heimlich maneuver because he claims that someone that saves your life has a need to continue taking care of you. I always thought that was the other way around and the save-y has to look over and protect the save-er. I most enjoyed the part where stones are beginning to fill the house and one character mentions that it feels as tho Many themes in this book were enjoyable even if many of them were unlikely. The main character works at a medieval theme park and spends nights pretending to need the Heimlich maneuver because he claims that someone that saves your life has a need to continue taking care of you. I always thought that was the other way around and the save-y has to look over and protect the save-er. I most enjoyed the part where stones are beginning to fill the house and one character mentions that it feels as though they are living in the bottom portion of an hourglass; I believe this is an important commentary about hoarding in America and the American perception of possessions. ...more I have choked in public on two different occasions. The first was at an Olive Garden with my mother, where an extremely lanky busboy had to give me the Heimlich to dislodge a chunk of poorly chewed steak consumed during a meal of Alfredo. The second involved another steak-related dinner at QDoba shared with about a dozen friends. An ambulance was called much to my irritation. Choking, at least in my experience involved vomiting up ropes of phlegm as the body attempts to dislodge the offending artic I have choked in public on two different occasions. The first was at an Olive Garden with my mother, where an extremely lanky busboy had to give me the Heimlich to dislodge a chunk of poorly chewed steak consumed during a meal of Alfredo. The second involved another steak-related dinner at QDoba shared with about a dozen friends. An ambulance was called much to my irritation. Choking, at least in my experience involved vomiting up ropes of phlegm as the body attempts to dislodge the offending article. There's nothing comical about it, and nothing pops out like a cork, splashing comically in someones drink. It is disgusting, it is frightening, and generally feels unpleasant for everyone involved. That's why I can't really view the plot of \"Choke\" as being all that credible these days. No one who saves you is going to feel like they need to take care of you their whole life. I didn't buy into the strictness of his period correct theme park. I wasn't convinced by his notion that there was loose sex waiting around every corner of society. The notion of any one mother having as many quirky ticks as his did wasn't a sell. There was no plot thread that didn't break my suspension of disbelief. While the flashbacks seem deliberately unrealistic and exaggerrated, the present tense fares only slightly better. And that's the flaw with about half of Palahniuk's novels; they just flat-out don't seem plausible to me. It's just ridiculous in a way that he's trying to sell to the audience as secret facts. \"Invisible Monsters\", \"Haunted\", and \"Snuff\" also fall into this category. He goes into waters he doesn't know how to navigate, but never loses the swaggering authority that brought him so much attention with \"Fight Club\". There was a certain point in each novel where I cried foul and couldn't get back into the setting. So much of \"Choke\" is like that, which is why I don't understand how it's the favorite of so many Palahniuk fans. The story is ludicrous without being genuinely surreal, and the eye-rolling threatens to damage my vision after a while. The only real saving grace is that good or bad, a book by him won't take a regular reader more than an afternoon to clear, especially since the style is exceptionally breezy, and that's all the recommendation I can really give it. ...more Wow! A book about a suburban white boy with low self-esteem and mommy issues! How novel! I've been told time and again by friends I otherwise respect to read Chuck Palahniuk. Well, I finally did, and it made me realize I've got too many friends. Choke is deeply funny in places, but at times it very much does not feel like it has any kind of natural rhythm, and it often seems contrived purely for the sake of the sick laugh. I haven't lost faith in Palahniuk and will probably read something else b Wow! A book about a suburban white boy with low self-esteem and mommy issues! How novel! I've been told time and again by friends I otherwise respect to read Chuck Palahniuk. Well, I finally did, and it made me realize I've got too many friends. Choke is deeply funny in places, but at times it very much does not feel like it has any kind of natural rhythm, and it often seems contrived purely for the sake of the sick laugh. I haven't lost faith in Palahniuk and will probably read something else by him, but this was not the book to convince me of his genius. The main character - <---C>Victor Mancini</---C> - is fascinating and complex. The stories he's a part of, however, aren't very complex at all, and even seem a little too orchestrated. As a result, the entire book comes off as a mouthpiece for Palahniuk's eccentricities. Given more of a playground to rough it up in, Mancini's exploits could have carried an entirely hilarious novel. But Palahniuk lets the ball drop and the novel itself comes off as one prolonged attempt at a joke. Sex addiction is funny for a page. For a significant topic of entire work of fiction, it comes off as a rather juvenile placation of angsty, adolescent dickery. If that's what you look for in fiction, this book is probably right up your alley. Otherwise, do what I probably should have done, and let your first Palahniuk book come with a different title. NC ...more If I could give it negative stars, I would. So many things I didn't like about the book...here's a few in list format! 1. No paragraphs...only phrases. It's hard to feel like youre reading a complete thought, when....you're not. 2. I know using the word \"Dude\" is addictive, but oddly enough, it's even more annoying to read it over and over than to hear/say it. 3. The way he always (and when I say always, I mean every time, every other page) referred to his penis as his 'dog' was nausiating. Really. If I could give it negative stars, I would. So many things I didn't like about the book...here's a few in list format! 1. No paragraphs...only phrases. It's hard to feel like youre reading a complete thought, when....you're not. 2. I know using the word \"Dude\" is addictive, but oddly enough, it's even more annoying to read it over and over than to hear/say it. 3. The way he always (and when I say always, I mean every time, every other page) referred to his penis as his 'dog' was nausiating. Really. Disgusting. 4. I never gave a shit about one single person in this book. Not a single one! 5. There's a chapter at the very end about having sex on planes. It's the most descriptive and comprehensive chapter in the book, and I can't figure out how it has anything at all to do w/ the plot. I wouldn't be surprised if he wrote this chapter 5 years before even thinking about the plot of this book, and didn't know what else to do with it, so he just stuck it in there. Or, on the other hand, maybe he revolved the entire book AROUND this chapter...like it was the egg and the book is the chicken. And the so-called 'clencher' your hear about in reviews...not so clenching. ...more So much better than 'Fight Club.' It's not as grotesque, but it's much more, oh, I don't know, how can I put this... fucked up. It's one those books that don't make any sense at all while you're reading it. Why are they doing that? Who the hell is she? But at the end of the novel, everything, everything comes together and it all makes sense. Plus, you will get one the most insane mind-fucks of all time IF you make it to the end. It was the last book to make gasp out loud and scream out, 'Holy sh So much better than 'Fight Club.' It's not as grotesque, but it's much more, oh, I don't know, how can I put this... fucked up. It's one those books that don't make any sense at all while you're reading it. Why are they doing that? Who the hell is she? But at the end of the novel, everything, everything comes together and it all makes sense. Plus, you will get one the most insane mind-fucks of all time IF you make it to the end. It was the last book to make gasp out loud and scream out, 'Holy shit! Did that just happen?!?!' I wish I wasn't in church when I finished the book. ...more \"\u0394\u03b9\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c3\u03b1\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b9\u03b4\u03ad\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03bf\u03bc\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1...\" This was my first introduction to Chuck Palahnuik. Hello Chuck. I'm one of your followers on goodreads. I'm not as weird as any of your characters but maybe one day you'll not write about self-help groups and instead will write about online book groups. After all bookishness is kind of an addiction too right? Or maybe it's a compulsion? Or a bit of both? Just take a look around goodreads.com... Like facebook for the literate. And immoderate. And insane. I think there's scope. Let me know what you think. This was my first introduction to Chuck Palahnuik. Hello Chuck. I'm one of your followers on goodreads. I'm not as weird as any of your characters but maybe one day you'll not write about self-help groups and instead will write about online book groups. After all bookishness is kind of an addiction too right? Or maybe it's a compulsion? Or a bit of both? Just take a look around goodreads.com... Like facebook for the literate. And immoderate. And insane. I think there's scope. Let me know what you think. A weird place to start given that I probably should have gone for Fight Club, his best loved, most vaunted and money spinning work to date. Anyway, it was a good introduction none the less. Odd, off kilter views of a world which most people never really think about generated out of the random scenario sequence generator: sex addicts + pioneer town historic re-enactment + god complex mum + choking = viable income for main character plus story. Umm I think I just summarised the plot there. Still not entirely convinced how choking in public places generates a decent yearly income though... and is it tax exempt as a donation rather than actual earnings? All I can say is that no matter what the net choke income is per annum, it's probably still more than I earn as an archaeologist! ...more 4 stars, although it could very well be 5. In fact, I don't know why I don't give it 5. I liked it more than Invisible Monsters , almost as much as I liked Fight Club . The more I read the guy, the more I come to believe he's a genius of a kind. At the beginning, he warns the readers to stay away from the book as it will only make them sick. Do I need to worry about the fact that not only did it not make me sick, but I actually loved it? Do I need to worry about the fact that I felt my blood boili 4 stars, although it could very well be 5. In fact, I don't know why I don't give it 5. I liked it more than Invisible Monsters , almost as much as I liked Fight Club . The more I read the guy, the more I come to believe he's a genius of a kind. At the beginning, he warns the readers to stay away from the book as it will only make them sick. Do I need to worry about the fact that not only did it not make me sick, but I actually loved it? Do I need to worry about the fact that I felt my blood boiling (in a good way) with every word that was coming out of the mouth of the hero's mother? Maybe one day I'll change radically and my blood will remain cool when I read such books. But not today. Maybe one day I'll be over those nihilistic witticisms on modern society and I'll simply laugh at them every time I come across them. Till then... Palahniuk, I'm with you all the way! 4 stars (why not 5?!) ...more If you pick this book up, don't even bother looking at the back cover, what is written there cannot even begin to tell you what you are about to read. I picked this book up based off of a few different people's recommendations and hearing the author's name dropped by several of my favorite authors. I had been told over and over how absolutely hysterical this book is, so of course I had to read it. First let me warn you this book is not for everyone... in fact it's not for most people, but there i If you pick this book up, don't even bother looking at the back cover, what is written there cannot even begin to tell you what you are about to read. I picked this book up based off of a few different people's recommendations and hearing the author's name dropped by several of my favorite authors. I had been told over and over how absolutely hysterical this book is, so of course I had to read it. First let me warn you this book is not for everyone... in fact it's not for most people, but there is a select group out there that this book is perfect for. In this book you will find addictions, depravity, sex acts of all kinds, death, pain, obsession, profanity, blasphemy, and enough repetition to drive an English major insane. But don't let that stop you from reading... this is actually a very strange yet disturbingly profound book. Short Summary: Our title character is a sex addict who fakes choking in restaurants to make people feel like heroes... he's had a terrible childhood with a completely insane mother who kidnapped him on multiple occasions. She's now in a home and is fast approaching her end, while her son, Victor, attempts to deal with his past, his problems, and his future. If you are looking for a book about redemption, this isn't it. Victor is a failed med student who is riddled with psychological problems raging from sexual addiction to severe childhood trauma. He wanders through life searching desperately for meaning, purpose and hope... all while fighting to keep from being a \"good guy.\" The only truly multidimensional character in the story is Victor, and the book is told stream of conscious from Victor's point of view. Victor behaves badly and fights to mentally defend his behavior to both the reader and himself. We swap between the current day and his childhood, or actually his memories of his childhood which are told with a bitterness not toward his mentally unstable mother, but toward himself. Victor is filled with a deep rooted self loathing that comes across clearly to the reader, however he constantly defends his actions and feelings but his defense is hollow. It is clear that he knows that his life is pathetic and his future is going to be devoid of true happiness should he continue on his current path. As a reader you follow his mental wanderings, excuses, and find yourself hoping that he latches on to something healthy. I don't want to give too much of the plot away, although there really isn't much of a plot. This is more of a character study of an addict, and addict who knows that things should be different but rejects and rebels against society to the point that he cannot even comprehend a healthy existence. As I said this book will not be for everyone, it is harsh, gross, filled with bodily fluids, depraved sexual acts, profanity and bad choice after bad choice. Most of supporting cast is filled with stereotypes and one dimensional jokes, also the way that this is written is very repetitive and the style will be jarring to many readers. It is not an easy read to whip right through due to the way that it is written. I am glad that I read this book, but I don't really know who I know that I would recommend it to. Oh, and yes, parts of this book are very funny... but on the whole I was left feeling rather sad for the people in it. Perhaps I'm just feeling sensitive today, but the hopelessness of the situations that these people put themselves into is a rather sobering idea. The concept that keeps reiterating itself through the book is the idea of reality and who we are, do we create ourselves or do we let society decide who we are... if we try to fight against society are we just dooming ourselves to unhappiness and ultimate misery? ...more Chuck Palahniuk cannot end a book to save his life; none of the ones I've read were very satisfying in the end. But what he does do - extremely well - is tell short, interesting, and often funny anecdotes that are nearly all based on real, actual events that happen to people every day, and that is not something to be taken lightly. If it could be read as a series of events that are all interesting in and of themselves, Choke would be his best book, a hilarious and compelling series of slice-o-li Chuck Palahniuk cannot end a book to save his life; none of the ones I've read were very satisfying in the end. But what he does do - extremely well - is tell short, interesting, and often funny anecdotes that are nearly all based on real, actual events that happen to people every day, and that is not something to be taken lightly. If it could be read as a series of events that are all interesting in and of themselves, Choke would be his best book, a hilarious and compelling series of slice-o-life narrative and takes you to your own backyard and points dramatically at the insects that live beneath the nearby rocks (or, in this case, inside tin-pans full of beer). However, when he tries to create connective tissue that ties these bits together, he often falls flat, and leaves me wanting more than he can deliver. Don't get me wrong, this book is worth your effort. The story about the girl who wants to be mock-raped, and her continual frustration at her partner's inability to \"do it right\" is fantastically funny, and their \"masturbation race\" at the end made it a little difficult to not laugh when I went back to work. (In fact, most of the book centers around sex, in lots of extremely perverse ways. Sadly, it is rarely sexy, but very, very funny.) Then you realize what you're laughing about. And now that's funny, too. It's something that Palahniuk does extremely well. However, when the end comes stumbling toward you, there is a sense that the effort to tie it all together falls short. All the elements themselves are fantastic, but to force them to be parts of a larger whole seems to miss the point of what makes them work as scenes. The title itself refers to what is ultimately such a small amount of the book, perhaps a nod to the fact that he himself sees that as the strongest part, which is not a ringing endorsement. Still, check it out from the library and give it a shot. You won't loose any money, and it's a quick weekend read. And then you'll have something really dirty to bring up at your next fancy dress party, which is always a good way to make friends. ...more Choke is one of those books that it still lies in my head. I remember when my College professor of ethics and aesthetics commanded us to read the short story \"Guts\" of Chuck Palahniuk. He warned us in how unpleasant would be to read it! But after reading it I thought that the author had a way of telling stories so visceral and cruel that attracted me. So inquiring more about him I found the book \"Choke\". In Choke the protagonist is the character who has more defects, more misery, and less ethical Choke is one of those books that it still lies in my head. I remember when my College professor of ethics and aesthetics commanded us to read the short story \"Guts\" of Chuck Palahniuk. He warned us in how unpleasant would be to read it! But after reading it I thought that the author had a way of telling stories so visceral and cruel that attracted me. So inquiring more about him I found the book \"Choke\". In Choke the protagonist is the character who has more defects, more misery, and less ethical values than other of the characters, but even though in the first pages the author warns you to stop reading the book, there is something in it that make you continue reading, and all that seems cruel, uncomfortable and unfriendly at the first pages, it starts to become more interesting and you can stop reading it. I recommend this book and this author to all readers with \"guts\". And I challenge all of you to read the story of \"Guts\". I leave here the link! ;) http://chuckpalahniuk.net/features/sh... Spanish version: Asfixia es uno de esos libros que te marcan de por vida. Recuerdo cuando mi profesor de universidad de \u00e9tica y est\u00e9tica nos mand\u00f3 a leer los relatos cortos \"Tripas\" Chuck Palanuik. Creo que se qued\u00f3 corto al avisarnos de lo desagradable que resultar\u00eda leerlos! Pero despu\u00e9s de leerlos me pareci\u00f3 que ese autor que hasta ese momento hab\u00eda sido desconocido para m\u00ed ten\u00eda una forma de contar las cosas incre\u00edblemente visceral y cruel, lejos de los prototipos y tal y como la mayor\u00eda de veces es la vida. As\u00ed que indagando m\u00e1s sobre \u00e9l encontr\u00e9 el libro \"Asfixia\". Para mi Asfixia marc\u00f3 un antes un despu\u00e9s en la concepci\u00f3n de \"protagonistas\". Aqu\u00ed el protagonista es el personaje que acumula m\u00e1s defectos, m\u00e1s miserias y con valores menos \u00e9ticos de todos los personajes, pero pese a que en las primeras p\u00e1ginas el propio autor te avisa precisamente de que dejes de leer el libro, hay algo en \u00e9l que te engancha, y lo que al principio te parece cruel, inc\u00f3modo y antip\u00e1tico al final es precisamente lo que m\u00e1s te gusta del libro. Recomiendo este libro y este autor a todos los lectores, y por supuesto, os reto a todos a que le\u00e1is los relatos de \"Tripas\", os dejo aqu\u00ed el link! ;) http://www4.loscuentos.net/cuentos/li... ...more I just couldn't do it! I could not read this drivel. It's not subversive. It's not funny. It's not interesting. It's not shocking. It is juvenile. Franzen's The Corrections, Roth's Portnoy's Complaint, and BBE's American Phycho are not in my favorites by any stretch of the imagination...but at least these three have ideas and can actually write even if I didn't want to read what they were writing about. And PLEASE don't compare this guy to the genius who was Kurt Vonnegut! Just don't even go there I just couldn't do it! I could not read this drivel. It's not subversive. It's not funny. It's not interesting. It's not shocking. It is juvenile. Franzen's The Corrections, Roth's Portnoy's Complaint, and BBE's American Phycho are not in my favorites by any stretch of the imagination...but at least these three have ideas and can actually write even if I didn't want to read what they were writing about. And PLEASE don't compare this guy to the genius who was Kurt Vonnegut! Just don't even go there. If you think it's funny when an adult says the word \"bugger\" you might like this book. Otherwise, don't bother. ...more \"Psychotic\" isn't the right word, but it's the first word that comes to mind. Seriously, this book is WEIRD. But, having said that, it's what made it so entertaining. The story never really WENT anywhere, though the ending was a surprise. The whole book was random, jumping from one thing to another - choking here, going to work, visiting his mom, going into his past...and there was a lot of pretty graphic areas regarding sex. On the whole, I pretty much hated the main character, he seemed like su \"Psychotic\" isn't the right word, but it's the first word that comes to mind. Seriously, this book is WEIRD. But, having said that, it's what made it so entertaining. The story never really WENT anywhere, though the ending was a surprise. The whole book was random, jumping from one thing to another - choking here, going to work, visiting his mom, going into his past...and there was a lot of pretty graphic areas regarding sex. On the whole, I pretty much hated the main character, he seemed like such a pig, but at the same time you enjoy reading about his demented and twisted life. Anyway, it was a pretty good book. Don't read it if you're easily offended! ...more \"E se invece Ges\u00f9 avesse passato la giovinezza a commettere errori?Prima di azzeccare il suo primo miracolo?\" Divertente, brillante, delirante, vorticoso. A partire dall'incipit:\u00abSe stai per metterti a leggere, evita. tra un paio di pagine vorrai essere da un'altra parte. Perci\u00f2 lascia perdere. Vattene. Sparisci, finch\u00e8 sei intero. Salvati. Ci sar\u00e0 pure qualcosa di meglio alla tv. Oppure, se proprio hai del tempo da buttare, che so, potresti iscriverti a un corso serale. Diventare un dottore. Cos \"E se invece Ges\u00f9 avesse passato la giovinezza a commettere errori?Prima di azzeccare il suo primo miracolo?\" Divertente, brillante, delirante, vorticoso. A partire dall'incipit:\u00abSe stai per metterti a leggere, evita. tra un paio di pagine vorrai essere da un'altra parte. Perci\u00f2 lascia perdere. Vattene. Sparisci, finch\u00e8 sei intero. Salvati. Ci sar\u00e0 pure qualcosa di meglio alla tv. Oppure, se proprio hai del tempo da buttare, che so, potresti iscriverti a un corso serale. Diventare un dottore. Cos\u00ec magari riesci a tirare su due soldi. Ti regali una cena fuori. Ti tingi i capelli. Tanto, ringiovanire non ringiovanisci.\u00bb Palahniuk \u00e8 un maestro nel capovolgere gli eventi; le sensazioni stesse che il lettore prova per i suoi personaggi vengono ribaltate senza sforzo, seguendo il corso naturale e bizzarro degli eventi. Il protagonista, Victor Mancini, sessodipendente che vive di espedienti cercando di mantenere la madre in fin di vita, vuole trovare una ragion d'essere, snocciolando critiche sulle miserabili vite degli altri, comprese le nostre:\u00ab \u00c8 pazzesco quanto una donna pu\u00f2 fraintenderti se per sbaglio, mentre le affondi il muso tra le chiappe morbide, dici: ti amo. Dieci volte su dieci, l'uomo che pronuncia quelle parole intende dire: amo quello che stiamo facendo.\u00bb Il suo amico di sventure, Denny, vive nel suo strampalato mondo dove tutto ha una logica, alla disperata ricerca di un progetto da realizzare..In un film verrebbe definito come la \"spalla\" del protagonista, in realt\u00e0 alla fine della storia, anche il suo ruolo si inverte. E nel frattempo ci regala le riflessioni su cui inciampa durante i voli pindarici della sua mente: \u00abA volte \u00e8 come se fossi io a voler essere picchiato e punito. Va benissimo anche se Dio non esiste, per\u00f2 qualcosa da rispettare lo voglio lo stesso. Non mi va di essere il centro del mio universo.\u00bb La madre di Victor, una donna che vive da anni in un nichilismo cosmico, e che ha cresciuto il figlio impartendogli regole di sopravvivenza dalla validit\u00e0 assoluta:\u00ab-L'unica frontiera che ci rimane \u00e8 il mondo dell'intangibile. Tutto il resto \u00e8 cucito troppo stretto.-Per intangibile la Mamma intendeva Internet, i film, la musica, le storie, l'arte, le voci che corrono, i programmi per computer, tutto ci\u00f2 che non \u00e8 reale. Le realt\u00e0 virtuali. Le simulazioni. La cultura. Perch\u00e9 la realt\u00e0 non arriva mai al grado di perfezione cui pu\u00f2 spingersi l'immaginazione. Perch\u00e9 soltanto ci\u00f2 che \u00e8 intangibile, le idee, i concetti, le convinzioni, le fantasie, durano. Le pietre si sgretolano, il legno marcisce. La gente, b\u00e9 la gente muore.\u00bb E poi vi rimane il resto del libro, un carosello di personaggi sbandati, disillusi o troppo creduloni, ma pur sempre umani. Se vi aspettate un linguaggio formale e pulito, avete sbagliato libro. Ma anche in questo Palahniuk \u00e8 costante. Le espressioni sboccate, il sesso ovunque, la degradazione al massimo livello, son tutti elementi che se all'inizio fan storcere il naso a chi non \u00e8 abituato, di pagina in pagina diventano elementi indispensabili della storia. E la rendono completa: l'ennesimo ribaltamento del libro. La stellina mancante, \u00e8 dovuta al fatto, che ho finito di leggere il libro ieri, e come ogni lettura intensa va digerita prima di poterla sigillare con un giudizio definitivo. Per\u00f2 una mezza in pi\u00f9 gliel'avrei data volentieri, anche a caldo. Un consiglio, non seguite l'avvertimento dato nell'incipit. Continuate a leggere: ne vale la pena. ...more Once again, Palahniuk provides perfect social commentary. Essential to understanding America and ourselves, Choke invites you to consider your life holistically, question what you know, and examine the quotidian anew. In addition, Palahniuk challenges us to find the best of ourselves, to focus less on \"Saint Me,\" and to experience fully those near-life experiences he documents so well in Fight Club. Another marvel, another marvel. Excerpt: \"Here, I'm supposed to tell her the truth. I admire addicts. In a world where everybody is waiting for some blind, random disaster or some sudden disease, the addict has the comfort of knowing what will most likely wait for him down the road. He's taken some control over his ultimate fate, and his addiction keeps the cause of his death from being a total surprise. In a way, being an addict is very proactive. A good addiction takes the guesswork out of death. There is such a thing as plan Excerpt: \"Here, I'm supposed to tell her the truth. I admire addicts. In a world where everybody is waiting for some blind, random disaster or some sudden disease, the addict has the comfort of knowing what will most likely wait for him down the road. He's taken some control over his ultimate fate, and his addiction keeps the cause of his death from being a total surprise. In a way, being an addict is very proactive. A good addiction takes the guesswork out of death. There is such a thing as planning your getaway. And for serious, it's such a chick thing to think that any human life should just go on and on. See also: Dr. Paige Marshall. See also: Ida Mancini. The truth is, sex isn't sex unless you have a new partner every time. The first time is the only session when your head and body are both there. Even the second hour of that first time, your head can start to wander. You don't get the full anesthetic quality of good first-time anonymous sex. What would Jesus NOT do? But instead of all that, I just lied to Miss Lacey and said, \"How can I reach you?\" I tell the fourth-graders that they call it cancer because when the cancer starts growing inside you, when it breaks through your skin, it looks like a big red crab. Then the crab breaks open and it's all bloody and white inside. \"Whatever the doctors tried,\" I tell the silent little kids, \"every little boy would end up dirty and diseased and screaming in terrible pain. And who can tell me what happened next?\" No hands go up. \"For sure,\" I say, \"he died, of course.\" And I put the poker back into the fire. \"So,\" I say, \"any questions?\" No hands go up, so I tell them about the fairly bogus studies where scientists shaved mice and smeared them with smegma from horses. This was supposed to prove foreskins caused cancer. A dozen hands go up, and I tell them, \"Ask your teacher.\" What a frigging job that must've been, shaving those poor mice. Then finding a bunch of uncircumcised horses. The clock on the mantel shows our half hour is almost over. Out through the window, Denny's still bent over in the stocks. He's only got until one o'clock. A stray village dog stops next to him and lifts its leg, and the stream of steaming yellow goes straight into Denny's wooden shoe. \"And what else,\" I say, \"is George Washington kept slaves and didn't ever chop down a cherry tree, and he was really a woman.\" As they push toward the door I tell them, \"And don't mess with the dude in the stocks anymore.\" I shout, \"And lay off shaking the damn chicken eggs.\" Just to stir the turd, I tell them to ask the cheesemaker why his eyes are all red and dilated. Ask the blacksmith about the icky lines going up and down the insides of his arms. I call after the infectious little monsters, any moles or freckles they have, that's just cancer waiting to happen. I call after them, \"Sunshine is your enemy. Stay off the sunny side of the street.\" -end Choke is my favorite book. It's about sexual addiction, Jesus complexes, and doing something GOOD with your life instead of just not doing bad things. It helped shape my current world-attitude and psyche, for better or worse. ...more Bravo Palahniuk, Bra-ha-vo! Man am I late to the Palahniuk party, geez. This book was amazing, his writing impeccable. The man can weave sentences in ways very few can. I agree this man's writing should be taught in philosophy courses. To review a book that's starts with this: \"If you're going to read this, don't bother. After a couple pages, you won't want to be here. So forget it. Go away. Get out while you're still in one piece. Save yourself. ... What happens here is first going to piss you o Bravo Palahniuk, Bra-ha-vo! Man am I late to the Palahniuk party, geez. This book was amazing, his writing impeccable. The man can weave sentences in ways very few can. I agree this man's writing should be taught in philosophy courses. To review a book that's starts with this: \"If you're going to read this, don't bother. After a couple pages, you won't want to be here. So forget it. Go away. Get out while you're still in one piece. Save yourself. ... What happens here is first going to piss you off. After that it just gets worse and worse.\" I mean how do you do that? The first chapter just grabbed me, it really beats on the \"little cooz\" boy and makes you really feel for him, Victor Mancini, the star of the story, if you could even call him that. Victor, the \"stupid stupid little boy\" AKA the hero maker. I mean have you ever heard of someone going to restaurants and purposely choking on food so someone could save them and then play off of their personally remarkable experience by hitting them up for money to help support himself and pay for his mother's medical bills? Crazy! As many people have stated this book is not for everyone. It just isn't, and I can tell that by the many bad reviews it has gotten. To them I shake my head, I LOVED IT! It is definitely an acquired taste though and there is a select group out there that this book is spot on for. This book you will find addictions galore, sex, death, religion, pain, profanity, blasphemy, and much literary repetition that could drive the avid reader or English major wonky. Definitely a good introduction to Palahniuk. \"Masterpiece\" isn't the right word, but it's the first word that comes to mind. See also: Profound See also: Unique ...more Me gusta el estilo irreverente y disperso de Palahniuk. La historia me hizo apreciar mi vida y lo afortunada que soy... jajajaja Muy recomendable amigos! Dear Mister Charles Bukowski , As you are always blunt, allow me to be blunt once. Is Chuck Palahniuk your son? Not necessarily legitimate one or loved one, but son nevertheless. Why I am asking this? Because in \"Choke\" C.Palahniuk chooses this style, that can be described as realism (real life, everyday based writing), but it's quite familiar to your own style, Mr. C.Bukowski. And while you describe your everyday life and surroundings with \"this life sucks\" manner, I guess Mr. Palahniuk wanted t Dear Mister Charles Bukowski , As you are always blunt, allow me to be blunt once. Is Chuck Palahniuk your son? Not necessarily legitimate one or loved one, but son nevertheless. Why I am asking this? Because in \"Choke\" C.Palahniuk chooses this style, that can be described as realism (real life, everyday based writing), but it's quite familiar to your own style, Mr. C.Bukowski. And while you describe your everyday life and surroundings with \"this life sucks\" manner, I guess Mr. Palahniuk wanted to reach a Guinness world record of most people vomiting while reading a book. I know, it's a style, free speech and etc., but some scenes are too nasty, even if we are warned way before falling face first into it. I heard American Psycho had quite similar detailed yuck stuff description scenes, and not everybody can stomach that. And well, in this book mister-might-be-your-son Chuck, writes about this character, that well, we all can relate somehow, but we aren't that sympathetic to him. It's like listening to someones confession, but you serve just like a bucket - but you just want the poor person to shut up. His mom is another matter - she is batshit crazy all the time. I guess his book was supposed to be about redemption, even coming of age one, but even if I finished reading this, I didn't get any sense of relief (more like thousand crows shit on me). I don't know if it's a good or a bad feeling. I guess bad. So, Mister Charles, take some DNR tests soon. You might be surprised. Always somewhere around, SadSunday. ...more Fairly standard transgressional fiction, full of paranoid social deviants, conspiracy theories abound, femmes fatales, a twist ending\u2026you get the idea. Choke is not drastically different from Palahniuk\u2019s earlier (and better) novel, Fight Club . In fact, it\u2019s far too similar. In Fight Club the primary metaphoric device was underground street fighting. In Choke , it is sexual addictions. Author works hard to shock the reader with graphic descriptions and sometimes funny slang, but the (intentionally Fairly standard transgressional fiction, full of paranoid social deviants, conspiracy theories abound, femmes fatales, a twist ending\u2026you get the idea. Choke is not drastically different from Palahniuk\u2019s earlier (and better) novel, Fight Club . In fact, it\u2019s far too similar. In Fight Club the primary metaphoric device was underground street fighting. In Choke , it is sexual addictions. Author works hard to shock the reader with graphic descriptions and sometimes funny slang, but the (intentionally) limited vocabulary of the narrator tends grates on the nerves due to incessant usage of the same childish slang terms, over and over again. Author has an irritating penchant for starting his chapters in medias res. The problem is, the combination of his fragmented writing style and the bizarreness of his scenes result in a mess that is more frustrating to the reader than intriguing. Author also loves to create metaphors and revisit them throughout the story. Much like the \u201cI am Jack\u2019s raging bile duct\u201d from Fight Club , here it is the hourly bird calls from an alarm clock in his \u201cmother\u2019s\u201d extended care bedroom, or medical school mnemonics, or various other rhetorical devices. But the author is not above the more tired metaphors, such as a character fiddling with a jigsaw puzzle while trying to uncover the \u201cpuzzle\u201d of the narrator\u2019s life. Yawn. Occasional flashes of insight aren\u2019t enough to carry this novel. It\u2019s not surprising that Palahniuk has moved on from this limited genre. ...more Victor spends his days working as an indentured servant in Colonial America. He spends his nights rotating between attending sex addicts anonymous and faking his own untimely demise by choking in high-end restaurants. Once saved, Victor then maintains contact with said rescuers in the hopes that they will send him enough money to cover his mother\u2019s monthly nursing home bill. Chuck Palahniuk is a very polarizing figure in modern day literature \u2013 you either love him or hate him. I fall into the ab Victor spends his days working as an indentured servant in Colonial America. He spends his nights rotating between attending sex addicts anonymous and faking his own untimely demise by choking in high-end restaurants. Once saved, Victor then maintains contact with said rescuers in the hopes that they will send him enough money to cover his mother\u2019s monthly nursing home bill. Chuck Palahniuk is a very polarizing figure in modern day literature \u2013 you either love him or hate him. I fall into the absolutely adore him category, but I still find it nearly impossible to write a review for his books. His brain works in such mysterious ways that a synopsis is the only safe bet to prevent spoilage of his masterpiece. Let\u2019s just say that, once again, his words read like poetry of the most demented order. ...more Granny dumpers, fat Tarzan and the monkey with the ass flavored chestnuts, tantric architecture, safe words and the sacred foreskin. Yep. Victor is a serial choker, medical school dropout, sex addict and bit player in an 18th century living museum. He may also be the Messiah. Or not . Palahniuk does it again with his sarcastic and witty take on choking as a business opportunity. Only Chuck could pull this one off. Senza alcun filtro, Palahniuk ci sbatte in faccia le incongruenze e le brutture della vita che quotidianamente ciascuno di noi conduce. Il protagonista (cos\u00ec come tutti gli altri personaggi che gli ruotano intorno) non riesce a far finta che vada tutto bene, a rimuovere il disagio della civilt\u00e0 (passatemi la citazione freudiana). Ma c\u2019\u00e8 molto di pi\u00f9: una Madre che ha cercato di plasmarlo secondo la sua distorta visione del mondo e che non ha esitato a usarlo per raggiungere i suoi obiettivi. La Senza alcun filtro, Palahniuk ci sbatte in faccia le incongruenze e le brutture della vita che quotidianamente ciascuno di noi conduce. Il protagonista (cos\u00ec come tutti gli altri personaggi che gli ruotano intorno) non riesce a far finta che vada tutto bene, a rimuovere il disagio della civilt\u00e0 (passatemi la citazione freudiana). Ma c\u2019\u00e8 molto di pi\u00f9: una Madre che ha cercato di plasmarlo secondo la sua distorta visione del mondo e che non ha esitato a usarlo per raggiungere i suoi obiettivi. La trama da sola non giustifica le quattro stellette n\u00e9 sarebbe un buon motivo per leggere il libro. Io ho trovato interessante il linguaggio, crudo ma (secondo me) non volgare, nel senso che le parole forti utilizzate non sono mai gratuite ma in perfetta sintonia con lo stato emotivo dei personaggi e con lo stile, totalmente lontano dal \u201cpolitically correct\u201d . Un consiglio: evitate di farvi influenzare della quarta di copertina perch\u00e9 non \u00e8 assolutamente rappresentativa della storia narrata. ...more \"What would Jesus NOT do?\" A sex addict who has fake-choked in so many restaurants that he has to start browsing the phone book for new material. A delusional mother, delusional doctor, delusional friends in a delusional life. There are so many great one liners throughout this book that if I highlighted, there would be more yellow than white within these covers. Chuck Palahniuk has a unique way of taking down the curtains we erect in our own minds to escape the cruel, stinking, insane realities of \"What would Jesus NOT do?\" A sex addict who has fake-choked in so many restaurants that he has to start browsing the phone book for new material. A delusional mother, delusional doctor, delusional friends in a delusional life. There are so many great one liners throughout this book that if I highlighted, there would be more yellow than white within these covers. Chuck Palahniuk has a unique way of taking down the curtains we erect in our own minds to escape the cruel, stinking, insane realities of our everyday lives. I can see why some people can't stand reading his work...because They probably can't handle having that curtain ripped down. I have found his work to be humorous, painfully realistic, thought provoking, grotesque, and what we all want as readers...down right entertaining. So choke on that, beeotches! ...more I originally had this one rated at a four but the more I stewed on it the more I realized it wasn\u2019t fair to the other fours out there and that it needed to come down a star. The beginning was strong, the middle entertaining but the end lost my attention. I think the exact moment it fell apart for me was the mile high chapter. It had the \u201cokay I get it, now please stop beating the joke to death\u201d feel to it that always wears thin on my patience. Nevertheless, his writing has that certain something I originally had this one rated at a four but the more I stewed on it the more I realized it wasn\u2019t fair to the other fours out there and that it needed to come down a star. The beginning was strong, the middle entertaining but the end lost my attention. I think the exact moment it fell apart for me was the mile high chapter. It had the \u201cokay I get it, now please stop beating the joke to death\u201d feel to it that always wears thin on my patience. Nevertheless, his writing has that certain something that keeps me coming back for more so onward until I complete all the books he has written. ...more", "Title": "Choke"},
