{"Comments": "I am extremely surprised. This book should not have moved me as much as it did. It is true that I adore stories in which friendship plays a humongous part, but I have read hundreds of them in the past. So what makes <+++>The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants</+++> so special? The pants, obviously, have a lot to do with my enjoying the story.<---F> They symbolize strength, love and courage</---F>. Lena, Carmen, <---C>Bridget</---C> and Tibby are four teenagers with distinct personalities, wants and needs. Despite all that sets them apa I am extremely surprised. This book should not have moved me as much as it did. It is true that I adore stories in which friendship plays a humongous part, but I have read hundreds of them in the past. So what makes <+++>The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants</+++> so special? The pants, obviously, have a lot to do with my enjoying the story. They symbolize strength, love and courage. Lena, Carmen, Bridget and Tibby are four teenagers with distinct personalities, wants and needs. Despite all that sets them apart from one another, they share the strongest of friendships. They are a sisterhood. The pants are first known to be incredible because it fits all four girls, who are also different in size and shape as well as in personality. Later in the story, the pants start to represent something more. The girls thought the pants would connect them in a spiritual way,<---M> while being apart from one another</---M>, but it\u2019s more than that: they draw their strength from it. It comforts them and helps them in dire situations. The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants tackles multiple subjects and explores various important themes, such as sexuality, coming-of-age, love, life, family and, of course, friendship. The girls are not perfect: they are likeable, but flawed in a way that is almost tangible. They make mistakes, want the wrong things, lie, cower in front of unwanted situations and make more mistakes. But that\u2019s okay. Because that\u2019s what they should be doing. They\u2019re young, therefore making mistakes is normal and, frankly, expected from them. But they\u2019re learning. Constantly. And that\u2019s makes this book fairly authentic and touching. As I am writing this review, I have already begun my reading of the second book. These girls\u2014Lena, Tibby, Bridget and Carmen\u2014have become, in such a short amount of time, quite dear to me. I need to know more about them and their future life-changing adventures. Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin\u2019 ...more A sparkling breath of fresh air, this book captures the spirit of friendship in the most charming and sauciest manner possible. The book is a far cry from the regular breed of YA novels which seem to dwell on the fixed notions that young girls basically fall into two main groups: One, the hatefully pretty, perpetually scheming Prom Queens with their nastier than \u201cweek-ol\u2019 milk\u201d cliques! And at the other end of the rainbow, the brave under-dog...not much to look at, the general do-gooder, the f A sparkling breath of fresh air, this book captures the spirit of friendship in the most charming and sauciest manner possible. The book is a far cry from the regular breed of YA novels which seem to dwell on the fixed notions that young girls basically fall into two main groups: One, the hatefully pretty, perpetually scheming Prom Queens with their nastier than \u201cweek-ol\u2019 milk\u201d cliques! And at the other end of the rainbow, the brave under-dog...not much to look at, the general do-gooder, the faithful confidante and to nicely round it off, more often than not, armed with an IQ formidable enough to gain entry into MENSA. Breaking the age-old mould with insouciance, <---A>Ann Brashares</---A> creates a world where it is possible for four friends, as different as chalk and cheese to form a deeply satisfying friendship. They care for each other, love each other, put aside fights and misunderstandings with a careless shrug and offer unstinted, non-judgmental support any time, everytime. Lena , the reluctant beauty; feisty, big-tushied Carmen ; the anti-everything, mad-at-the-world Tibby and the over-achieving, statuesque athlete Bridget are friends; literally since birth (<---B> their mums shared a preggers-aerobics class </---B>). Having grown up in each other\u2019s pockets, along comes a summer when the four are parted for the first time. Lena is off to Greece to meet her grandparents; Carmen to spend some quality time with her divorced dad in South Carolina; Bridget to Baja, California for summer camp and Tibby, the impotent rebel is stuck at home, cutting a minimum wage at Wallman\u2019s. A well-worn pair of soft jeans bought at a thrift-shop by Carmen but never-tried becomes an unexpected bond to hold the four pals together. Despite their vastly different body proportions, the seemingly-magical pair of jeans fits each of them like a dream\u2026\u2026hugging the right curves, resting gracefully on the varying waistlines, making each teen feel sexy and infusing them with much-needed confidence. They make a pact ( complete with a set of serious-cum-nonsensical rules ) to circulate the pants amongst themselves throughout their vacation, passing it on when the time is right. Thus begins the saga of the Sisterhood\u2026\u2026 As the long, glorious summer unravels, the pants become a source and symbol of the generous support which the sisterhood provides to each of the four buddies as they face unwieldy situations. Sucker-punched by new emotions, the friends absorb confidence from their ever-reliable \u2018magical pants\u2019. For each, the pants seem to be infused with the strength and support of their fellow friends. Brimming with energy and vitality, the book effortlessly hops between the four friends as they deal with life, love and all-things \u2018teen-achy\u2019. One of the best coming-of-age books in a long time, it\u2019s a must read for everyone who is-a-teen, was-a-teen and will soon be-a-quakin\u2019 in your boots-teen. It\u2019s a tough world out there, but when you got your SIST \u2013AHS, life\u2019s just a wee bit more bearable. ...more This is beginning to feel a little too familiar, but here's yet another disapointment from my YA Lit class. First, I should state that I have never liked the whole \"girl power\" thing. I guess I always felt intelligent/empowered enough as a teenager to not have to rely on books like this to show me how fantastic it is to be female. Also, generally speaking, I find large groups of girls terrifying, especially at the high school age. So lots of pre-existing strikes against this book. As for the sto This is beginning to feel a little too familiar, but here's yet another disapointment from my YA Lit class. First, I should state that I have never liked the whole \"girl power\" thing. I guess I always felt intelligent/empowered enough as a teenager to not have to rely on books like this to show me how fantastic it is to be female. Also, generally speaking, I find large groups of girls terrifying, especially at the high school age. So lots of pre-existing strikes against this book. As for the story itself: blah. Complaint the first: I dislike the fomulatic \"four girls with four neat, distinctive personalities\" thing. I mean come on - all my friends in high school were pretty much the exact same as me, but with different colors of hair and varying degrees of niceness. Complaint the second: I was unconvinced by every single one of the characters. Lena I liked the best, but I still didn't buy the whole \"I don't want people to like me 'cause I'm pretty\" thing. Realistically, most pretty teenagers seem fairly psyched by their good fortune and run with it. Maybe if she was in her twenties (still a maybe), but at fifteen? Similarly, the one who played soccer and her agressive hitting on the coach senario. Maybe it was realistic, but if it is, I didn't grow up with girls like that. It all seemed a little contrived to me. Even at fifteen we all had a pretty good handle on the word \"skank\", and the lack of it being thrown around by anyone made this seem less real-world. Girls aren't nice - if one person has the nerve to flirt with the camp idol (especially if she is sucessful), she isn't cheered on and adored for it. She is hated, whispered about, and called lots of fun names for it. Or, at least where I came from. Complaint the third: the kid with cancer. Not to be cold (or, perhaps \"colder\" would be more accurate), but dying does not make you self-aware, wise, and interesting all by itself so far as I know. Yet somehow books/movies just can't resist the wise-beyond-her-years dying kid. It would make a lot more sense and be a lot more authentic if she were just mad, not a slightly rebellious Yoda. Complaint the fourth: The stupid pants. I hated the completely idiotic premise of the book. Seriously. Magic pants that fit everyone? That's the best that could be thought up? Not good. Not good at all. ...more I'm glad I finally read this! I'd seen the movie before so this story wasn't new but I still enjoyed it. Brashares did a great job of creating real teenage emotions. The turmoil and depression these girls all went through during this summer jumped of the pages and felt very true to how I remember myself feeling at that time in my life. Each of the girls is so different, but I can see a bit of myself in most of them so there were many different moments in each story line that I related to. However I'm glad I finally read this! I'd seen the movie before so this story wasn't new but I still enjoyed it. Brashares did a great job of creating real teenage emotions. The turmoil and depression these girls all went through during this summer jumped of the pages and felt very true to how I remember myself feeling at that time in my life. Each of the girls is so different, but I can see a bit of myself in most of them so there were many different moments in each story line that I related to. However, while the characters were the star of the show, I wasn't a big fan of the format or writing rhythm. There was no real rhyme or reason to when chapter breaks or POV changes occurred and I guess I've just been spoiled by how books like Pretty Little Liars have handled 4 character POVs. Additionally, I felt that most sentences were similar in length and very straightforward. Could have used a little more description or development of some of the themes. The character reactions were amazing, but I would have liked a little more time spent on WHY they were reacting the way they were. Things seemed to come on very suddenly and then be over. That didn't take away from my overall enjoyment very much though! I recognize that I'm just nitpicking. ...more Such a beautiful portrayal of love and friendship sisterhood. Seeing this image after reading the book just made me smile so much. Review to come. We, the Sisterhood, hereby instate the following rules to govern the use of the Traveling Pants. 1.) You must never wash the Pants. 2.) You must never double-cuff the Pants. It's tacky. There will never be a time when this will not be tacky. 3.) You must never say the word \"phat\" while wearing the Pants. You must also never think \"I am fat\" while wearing the Pants... So begins the first summer apart for four friends: Lena, who is going to visit her grandparents in Greece with her sister; Carmen, hea We, the Sisterhood, hereby instate the following rules to govern the use of the Traveling Pants. 1.) You must never wash the Pants. 2.) You must never double-cuff the Pants. It's tacky. There will never be a time when this will not be tacky. 3.) You must never say the word \"phat\" while wearing the Pants. You must also never think \"I am fat\" while wearing the Pants... So begins the first summer apart for four friends: Lena, who is going to visit her grandparents in Greece with her sister; Carmen, heading south to see her father; Bridget, going to a soccer camp in Mexico; and Tibbie, the only one of the four to be stuck at home with a summer job. In order to feel a bit closer despite the distance, the friends find a pair of pants they profess to be \"magical\" -- it fits all four of them perfectly -- and form a \"Sisterhood\" around the pants. They are mailed back and forth from girl to girl as needed; they are all wearing the pants during a significant moment of theirs from that summer. Lena bonds with her grandparents and learns that not every guy who is attracted to her is shallow. Carmen finds out that her father is living with his fiancee and her two children, and must cope with the shock and find a way to fit in. Bridget crushes on a coach from the soccer camp, and finds the forbidden relationship yet another challenge. Tibbie meets a younger girl who, despite her young age, teaches Tibbie that there is more to a person than outward appearance. Ann Brashares has written four Sisterhood books, this being the first in the series. It is definitely a must-read for teen girls. ...more Wow! If you are a teen girl looking for some love stories between friends and their SUPER-HOT boyfriends, well look no further then the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series! This book is about the 4 best friends Bridget, Carmen, Tibby, and Lena when they split up for the summer. With the Pants binding them together wherever they go, their summers are no longer lonely. The Pants witness all break - ups and get togethers and are often shipped with hysterical letters that will make you laugh ou Wow! If you are a teen girl looking for some love stories between friends and their SUPER-HOT boyfriends, well look no further then the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series! This book is about the 4 best friends Bridget, Carmen, Tibby, and Lena when they split up for the summer. With the Pants binding them together wherever they go, their summers are no longer lonely. The Pants witness all break - ups and get togethers and are often shipped with hysterical letters that will make you laugh out loud! I think my favorite is the love - hate relationship between Eric and Bridget, but I can't tell you, so read to find out! ...more I saw the movie first and kind of liked it. So, of course I thought \"Well the book is always better than the movie\" so I decided to read it, even though its written for teens and I wasn't too sure I could relate. I guess I couldn't because this is one time I liked the movie a lot better than the book. I mean really, how many 15/16 year old girls do you know who's parents let them go trapezing all over the world (in Lena's case literally) and don't think twice about it. Come to think of it how ma I saw the movie first and kind of liked it. So, of course I thought \"Well the book is always better than the movie\" so I decided to read it, even though its written for teens and I wasn't too sure I could relate. I guess I couldn't because this is one time I liked the movie a lot better than the book. I mean really, how many 15/16 year old girls do you know who's parents let them go trapezing all over the world (in Lena's case literally) and don't think twice about it. Come to think of it how many 15/16 year old girls have the money to it even if they're parents really are that totally oblivious. Not to mention Bailey, who is roaming around with Tibby all summer despite a major medical condition that would most certainly keep her slowed down, if not out completely. The main characters in this book are flat and, frankly, boring and the situations they are in are really not very believable. The adults are almost completely absent, and when they are present they are made out to be selfish, stupid, unaware, or all of the above. This is a perfect teen angst novel that I'm sure will appeal to teenagers everywhere who will find this a wonderful book about girls their own age who get to do what they want when they want and have really no real consequences. Not to mention the whole \"My friends are my life\" theme which will also appeal to a younger angrier audience. For those of us who have battled through those misunderstood years and know that life doesn't work quite that way, well...this novel will leave most ADULTS cold. ...more What an annoying book. I was going to write snarky, individual letters to each of the characters in succession, but then I realized that it was a pointless endeveaour since all the letters would end up the same, anyway. Why, you ask? Because all the characters are the same. Would you like to know some personality traits? It's like the author picked one or two for each of the characters and then relied on either one or the other to simply parasail each of the girls through the book. There was Lena What an annoying book. I was going to write snarky, individual letters to each of the characters in succession, but then I realized that it was a pointless endeveaour since all the letters would end up the same, anyway. Why, you ask? Because all the characters are the same. Would you like to know some personality traits? It's like the author picked one or two for each of the characters and then relied on either one or the other to simply parasail each of the girls through the book. There was Lena, who was beautiful and shy. But we all know that shy girls have a bevy of passion hidden up inside, right? There was Bridget, who was a flirtatious athelete. Her plotline involves flirting with a guy, I don't know, ten years older than her? More? There was Carmen, who was either angry or passive through the book and is the least interesting character in the whole series. I'm glad, however, for this. In the second book she morphs into a semi-interesting absolute brat . And then there was Tibby. Thank goodness for Tibby. She was absolutely the only character with a personality or an interesting story in the whole book. Tibby, get better friends. Or none at all. Considering Tibby, she'd probably go with none at all . In fact, the only storyline I enjoyed was Tibby and Bailey's, and I found myself flipping through Carmen's, Lena's and Bridget's chapters to get to hers. Although I did stop at Bridget's a couple of times to see if she actually did hook up with Mr. Coach Man. Which is illegal, since she's 16 and he's... uh. 26? And here we get to what bothered me. Why didn't someone arrest Eric? And why are Bridget's friends so irresponsible? When Bridget basically tells them that she slept with a guy over 18, the only reaction she gets are some wide eyes. Don't you want to, you know, report the rapist to the police? Oh, I know it was Bridget's choice, and all that. And I would semi-understand if he was an interesting character or she was an interesting character and they had semi-interesting chemistry together. But they didn't. They had mutual attraction based on mutual sexiness, and didn't really bother to get to know each other much more, even in the next three books. Not that there's anything to know. Dull. Dull, dull, dull. If it had been a novella featuring only Tibby, I might have found it a lot better, maybe even given it four stars. But with the rest of the baggage characters tagging along for the ride... no, thanks. ...more Third Read: August 2016 Second Read: 2009 Original Read: 2002 3.5 STARS I *still* have not read Sisterhood Everlasting so I'm going to reread the first four books (yet again) so I can finally finish off this series. I'm going the audio route this time around and the thing that I keep noticing is how different the movie was from the book. It's been so long since I read the books that I forgot how much they condensed into the first movie and how many changes they made. This is still an enjoyable read Third Read: August 2016 Second Read: 2009 Original Read: 2002 3.5 STARS I *still* have not read Sisterhood Everlasting so I'm going to reread the first four books (yet again) so I can finally finish off this series. I'm going the audio route this time around and the thing that I keep noticing is how different the movie was from the book. It's been so long since I read the books that I forgot how much they condensed into the first movie and how many changes they made. This is still an enjoyable read after all these years and it's fun to revisit the four friends. ...more 31/5 - Why do they always have to change the book in order for it to become a movie?! Alexis Bledel is nothing like the way I would have imagined Lena (described as having the tanned skin of her Greek ancestry, while Bledel is quite white ) if I had read the book first and her character's experience in the movie barely resembles that of her book's counterpart. Lena's relationship with Kostas progresses nothing like the way it is portrayed in the movie (although I have to admit that I found movie 31/5 - Why do they always have to change the book in order for it to become a movie?! Alexis Bledel is nothing like the way I would have imagined Lena (described as having the tanned skin of her Greek ancestry, while Bledel is quite white ) if I had read the book first and her character's experience in the movie barely resembles that of her book's counterpart. Lena's relationship with Kostas progresses nothing like the way it is portrayed in the movie (although I have to admit that I found movie Lena more sympathetic than the original). The movie even changes how the pants are first acquired. As usual, I'm mostly baffled by the choices screen writers/directors/whoever's in charge of making these changes make. Anyway, I haven't seen/didn't love the movie enough to constantly be saying \"that didn't happen in the movie\" to myself as I was reading, which was good, it left me to simply enjoy the book, which I did. I liked the way the story was told with letters to each other interspersed throughout the normal writing style, although the letters could have been a bit longer so we got a little more detail in each. I will definitely be reading the next book in the series. 2016 POPSUGAR Reading Challenge Category: A Book that takes Place During Summer ...more 3.5 stars. I went into this expecting it to be a super fluffy teen-girl-friendship-group story, kind of like the movie Now and Then?? And it totally seemed like that's what it was going to be at the beginning of the book. And yet somewhere along the way, it took a turn and detoured down STAB YOU IN THE FEELS Lane. Which I was totally not expecting and still don't quite know how to process. It's a little dated now, and some of the parental actions are a little bit \"WTF WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT\" as a 3.5 stars. I went into this expecting it to be a super fluffy teen-girl-friendship-group story, kind of like the movie Now and Then?? And it totally seemed like that's what it was going to be at the beginning of the book. And yet somewhere along the way, it took a turn and detoured down STAB YOU IN THE FEELS Lane. Which I was totally not expecting and still don't quite know how to process. It's a little dated now, and some of the parental actions are a little bit \"WTF WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT\" as an adult. (Actually, a lot of the teen actions fall into that camp too, but that's pretty standard for YA books...) And the included letters between the girls kind of drove me nuts because half of them could have fitted on a post-it, and why the hell would you spend a ton of money posting a letter that's three lines long?! I mean, my friends and I used to send each other letters during the school holidays when we were in high school. But they were always at least 4 A4 pages long. So...the letters grated. But on the whole, this was a lot more than I expected. I took off a quarter of a star because it took me at least half of the book to actually get into the story. So. Yeah. ...more I really love this series. I think these were the first multiple perspective books I ever read and I really adored being back in the world of Lena, Tibby, Bee & Carmen. I feel like everyone can cast themselves as one of the girls, or at least a mixture of them. This is the story of the first summer the girls spend apart, each going on different adventures and stepping out into the world of grown-ups and real life. The first book takes place over the summer of their 15th (almost 16) year. We I really love this series. I think these were the first multiple perspective books I ever read and I really adored being back in the world of Lena, Tibby, Bee & Carmen. I feel like everyone can cast themselves as one of the girls, or at least a mixture of them. This is the story of the first summer the girls spend apart, each going on different adventures and stepping out into the world of grown-ups and real life. The first book takes place over the summer of their 15th (almost 16) year. We see each of the girls go through a multitude of growth and life experience and Ann's honestly is really refreshing. I kind of wish more contemporary books where like this - less angsty and more awkward, full of mistakes and OOPS moments :) I also listened to the audiobook for parts of the story and I really recommend it! I thought it was really well done. When I was younger, I would have said I was a Bee/Carmen kind of girl, but now that I'm older and know myself a little better, I'm actually a Lena/Carmen kind of girl! What about you? I definitely give this book 5 stars, though I admit my rating will never be unbiased, as I read these books as a teenager and have such an affinity for them in my heart! ...more As posted on Zezee with Books . Why did it take me so long to finally read these books? I\u2019ve been missing out on a fun but touching story about female friendships and family. Quick summary on both books: The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series is a contemporary young-adult series about the friendship of four teenage girls growing up in Bethesda, MD. All born within weeks of each other, the girls formed the Sisterhood when they discover a magical pair of pants that not only fits them all despite As posted on Zezee with Books . Why did it take me so long to finally read these books? I\u2019ve been missing out on a fun but touching story about female friendships and family. Quick summary on both books: The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series is a contemporary young-adult series about the friendship of four teenage girls growing up in Bethesda, MD. All born within weeks of each other, the girls formed the Sisterhood when they discover a magical pair of pants that not only fits them all despite their varying body types, but also seems to bring about major changes in their lives whenever they wear it. They only wear the pants during the summer. The pants seems like any ordinary pair but when on, it accentuates the wearer\u2019s features in an attractive way. In The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, we follow the girls as they go their separate ways for the first time in the summer. Bridget, who is tall, blonde, and athletic, is off to soccer camp in Mexico and Carmen, a curvy Latina, travels south to visit her father in South Carolina. Tibby, an aspiring film maker, stays home and finds a summer job while working on a documentary and beautiful Lena visits her grandparents in Greece. The girls decide to stay in contact by mailing the pants to each other along with a letter over the summer. The Second Summer of the Sisterhood picks up the following summer. The girls have grown some due to the previous summer\u2019s experiences and things escalate in this installment. Curious about her background, Bridget visits her grandmother in Alabama and Tibby attends a film summer course at a college. Carmen and Lena remain home for the summer but still learn more about themselves and their family. My thoughts: I don\u2019t have much to say about the books because they are just cute, fun reads though they hint at deeper topics. I enjoyed reading them and it\u2019s possible that Ann Brashares might become a new favorite author of mine because I love how easily her story flows and how relatable these characters are. It\u2019s a moderately paced story and I was never bored. Actually, I became so engrossed that I practically completed the first book in a day. I couldn\u2019t stop reading it. That reaction was a pleasant surprise because though I enjoyed the movies, I didn\u2019t love them; and I\u2019ve toyed with idea of reading the book since the first time I heard of it but always forget to. I didn\u2019t realize it was a series either. Once I was done with the first book, I had to hop to the next. They\u2019re like Pringles. Once you pop, you can\u2019t stop. You get hooked on the characters and their stories, though they are annoying sometimes. Speaking of the characters, Bridget and Lena are my favorites. Bridget because she\u2019s so vivacious and spirited and fun. She jumps into life and enjoys it. But she also has her low moments, which I can somewhat relate to. By the end of the first book, I thought she might be bipolar but isn\u2019t getting the help she needs. I like that the girls\u2019 bond is so strong that they can easily tell when a friend is in need and are willing do whatever they can to help that friend. I also like Lena because her personality is a little like mine. She\u2019s shy, observant, and introverted. She\u2019s also very creative and loves to paint. I enjoyed reading her parts in the first book but was annoyed with her in the second one because she was so indecisive. Then I got pissed at the boy. Smh. Tibby is cool, but I felt sorry for her in the second book as she puzzles out her feelings toward her mother and I flip-flopped wit Carmen. I was rooting for her in the first book though I didn\u2019t like her too much because she\u2019s very judgmental, but she pushed the limit in the second book. She\u2019s scathing and I felt sorry for her mother the whole time. I understand why Carmen is the way she is but I don\u2019t like her, unfortunately. And speaking of mothers, why are the mother-daughter relationships in this story so strenuous? Not one of them have a good mother-daughter relationship and the fathers are hardly mentioned, except for Carmen\u2019s in the first book. In the second book, Tibby should have been just as unkind toward her father as she is toward her mother, but the story focuses only on Tibby\u2019s feelings toward her mom. Again, I understand why Carmen is scathing toward everyone close to her but I expected \u2014 hoped \u2014 that Lena would at least have a somewhat good relationship with her mom. But that didn\u2019t seem to be the case. I admire the bond between the girls but I wish the bond with their mothers was stronger\u2026maybe it is. Maybe that\u2019s why they\u2019re so harsh toward their mothers, because they know that their moms will love them no matter what. But still\u2026 Another thing I liked is the setting. I didn\u2019t know that the story was set around the DC area. That\u2019s so cool! I love it when I can identify places in books and experiences there because I\u2019ve been to the places and experienced similar things there. That was just a great topping to my reading experience. Bridget\u2019s time with her grandmother in the second book was also great and touching and one of my favorite parts. I almost cried. Actually, I almost cried several times while reading. Tears of joy, anger, and sadness threatened to fall. Overall: The Sisterhood \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 The Second Summer \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u26061/2 I guess I did have a lot to say about them. I enjoyed both books. They are fast reads, but the second took longer for me to complete because I read it while reading another book. The first book gets full 5 stars because it\u2019s great but the second gets 4.5 because the characters really upset me. Yes, I drop stars because of that. I borrowed e-books of both from my library because I recently discovered Overdrive. Though easy to read, the e-books, which were supplied through Kindle, were sometimes a little confusing when jumping to a different section within a chapter. The story is told from all four girls\u2019 perspectives (should have mentioned that earlier but oh well) but there wasn\u2019t a large enough gap between sections to indicate a switch in perspective, so I\u2019d keep reading thinking it\u2019s the same character as before and not realize the switch until later. These are quick, fun reads and I highly recommend them. They are perfect for the beach and I wish I had read them during the summer. I love the characters, the settings, the narration, and also that the girls learn something new by the story\u2019s end. I look forward to reading the rest of the series. Really, I didn\u2019t expect this reflection to be so long. ...more Must quote from the back of the book, as I love it :) We, the Sisterhood, hereby instate the following rules to govern the use of the Traveling Pants: 2. You must never double-cuff the Pants. It's tacky. There will never be a time when this will not be tacky. 4. You must never let a boy take off the Pants (although you may take them off yourself in his presence). 5. You must not pick your nose while wearing the Pants. You may, however, scratch casually at your nostril while really kind of picking. I Must quote from the back of the book, as I love it :) We, the Sisterhood, hereby instate the following rules to govern the use of the Traveling Pants: 2. You must never double-cuff the Pants. It's tacky. There will never be a time when this will not be tacky. 4. You must never let a boy take off the Pants (although you may take them off yourself in his presence). 5. You must not pick your nose while wearing the Pants. You may, however, scratch casually at your nostril while really kind of picking. I have to say it. I loved this book! I've been putting off my book review because frankly, it's like writing a book report on a great movie or dream. I love the idea of The Septembers, a bunch of girls all born at the same time. Maybe it's special to me because *I'm* a September. These girls are friends their entire lives (well to age 15, at least), and that too is something that touches me. My dad was in the Air Force and we moved a lot. I don't have any friends who have known me since birth, and I've always been jealous of people who do. For a book written for teens, there are some beautifully written passages, and some very insightful sections. This author doesn't \"talk down\" to the reader at all. I love the description of Lena's sunset in Greece: \"The sunset was too beautiful. It almost made Lena feel panicked because she couldn't save it. . . . She perched on her windowsill, gazing at the lurid sun soaking into the Caldera, trying to appreciate it even though she couldn't have it. Why did she always feel she had to do something in the face of beauty?\" I had two thoughts when I read this -- 1. that I often feel the same way in the face of beauty, and 2. this makes me think of people who take pictures (for the future), but don't enjoy the moment they are actually taking the pictures of. Another passage that said exactly something I have felt many times: \"Her eyes were full. They dripped. From sadness, or strangeness, or love. They were the kind of tears that came when she was just too full. She needed to make a little room.\" Do you know this feeling? Wow, I do. What a wonderful way to write it. SPOILER ALERT: When Tibby's pet dies and Tibby is in denial, it requires some processing to realize Mimi is gone. \"Tibby held her up high, in one hand. Mimi hated that. She usually scrambled her sharp little nails against Tibby's wrist. Dawning on her both slowly and panic-fast was the knowledge that this wasn't Mimi anymore. This was left-over Mimi.\" OH, how I know what this means! I wanted to see my dad's body after he died, but when I saw him, it was somehow unfulfilling. It was left-over dad, I think. When her friend Bailey dies too, Brashares writes the most beautiful tribute for the living: \"She was alive, and they were dead. She had to try to make her life big. As big as she could. She promised Bailey she would keep playing.\" This is a fabulous challenge for those of us who have lost someone. What a charge! We must go on living. And live big :) This is a great book! I laughed, I cried. ...more This book took me completely by surprise. I wasn't planning on reading it but the movie was coming on and I decided I should read the book first before watching the film. The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is a story with an awful premise that was surprisingly well-executed. Going into it, I expected some silly, shallow book about four teenage girls falling in love over one summer, but instead this book focused on the exploration of family dysfunction, death, and the bonds of friendship. The This book took me completely by surprise. I wasn't planning on reading it but the movie was coming on and I decided I should read the book first before watching the film. The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is a story with an awful premise that was surprisingly well-executed. Going into it, I expected some silly, shallow book about four teenage girls falling in love over one summer, but instead this book focused on the exploration of family dysfunction, death, and the bonds of friendship. The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is not a romance, although there are romantic elements of varying degrees in three of the girl's stories. It was refreshing to find the romance taking a backseat to other important issues in a contemporary young adult novel. The four main characters, as well as many of the side characters, were fleshed out and very distinct from one another. I found myself coming to care about all of them. Two things kept this from being a five star read. One was the premise. The idea of magical jeans that fit all four girls perfectly was a bit too silly for me, and I feel that the story could have stood on its own without it. The pants weren't necessary or even integral to the plot. The other reason for the missing star was the writing. I thought it was a bit clunky with adverbs and adjectives galore, and excessive use of dialogue tags when they weren't really needed. It was distracting enough to take me out of the story at times. Otherwise, this was a fantastic read, and I will certainly be reading the sequels. ...more I was almost ashamed to love this book, because I'm REALLY not one for \"chick lit\"...give me Gothic or intrigue any day! However, I think this series is really exceptional. The experiences cannot be typified -although there is romance, I appreciate how it does not fall into the \"crush/agony/happily-ever-after\" triptych that is common to most \"chick lit\" novels. I think Ann Brashares is remarkably gifted at describing emotions and experiences -she chooses seemingly minor incidents and trains her I was almost ashamed to love this book, because I'm REALLY not one for \"chick lit\"...give me Gothic or intrigue any day! However, I think this series is really exceptional. The experiences cannot be typified -although there is romance, I appreciate how it does not fall into the \"crush/agony/happily-ever-after\" triptych that is common to most \"chick lit\" novels. I think Ann Brashares is remarkably gifted at describing emotions and experiences -she chooses seemingly minor incidents and trains her descriptive powers on them until you see the intricacies just as she does. I would be interested to see her in another genre -maybe historical fiction? I think she would excel at that -she could really enliven history. ...more I was stuck in a mini book slump so I decided to throw it back to a summer classic with The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants . I remembered a good amount of what happened from when I read the book and watched the movie when I was younger, but after reading it now, it really made me want to go back and finish the series. Even though this book is about a magical pair of jeans shared among friends, I really enjoyed how realistic it was. Carmen, Lena, and Tibby have my favorite story lines. Carmen' I was stuck in a mini book slump so I decided to throw it back to a summer classic with The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants . I remembered a good amount of what happened from when I read the book and watched the movie when I was younger, but after reading it now, it really made me want to go back and finish the series. Even though this book is about a magical pair of jeans shared among friends, I really enjoyed how realistic it was. Carmen, Lena, and Tibby have my favorite story lines. Carmen's phone call with her dad has always been a scene that stood out to be in the book and the movie, and even after reading it again, the whole situation still had me in tears. I appreciated Lena's story and how she found a connection to her grandfather. I also liked that Ann Brashares didn't push the romance for Lena and Kostos. They liked each other, but (view spoiler) [it wasn't an annoying instalust story. It took the whole book before they actually admitted their feelings for each other and kissed (hide spoiler) ] . I would've liked for them to have more time to actually get to know each other, but even the small scenes where Lena is just observing him and noticing things about him are sweet and I'm hoping we see their love story grow in the second book. Tibby's story was heartbreaking. I think Bailey is a great character and I loved seeing Tibby and Bailey's friendship grow over the summer. Bailey really opened Tibby up to seeing the world in a new way. Things get a little conflicted when it comes to Bridget's summer. I think Brashares has given Bridget some interesting character traits. She is manic and headstrong and has high highs and low lows. It makes me wonder if she deals with (view spoiler) [mental illness in the rest of the series, or if this is just a story of a high school girl who lost her way and is trying to find herself again (hide spoiler) ] . I didn't like Eric and Bridget's storyline together and think he acted inappropriately in a position of authority. I'm also not a huge sports person, so for me the soccer camp plot was the least appealing. The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants was a quick summer read that shows just how important friendship is. Tibby, Bridget, Carmen, and Lena support each other through everything they go through that summer and prove that even distance can't shatter their bond. It had me feeling all the feels, wishing for magic pants, and praying I win the lottery so I can go to Greece. Now I want to read the rest of the series and re-watch the films. YouTube | Twitter | Facebook | Instagram | Website ...more It wasn't as good as I'd hoped, but it was okay. Let me just say that if I ever find a pair of magic jeans that make me look fabulous I'M NOT SHARING! I had seen previews for the movie adaptation of this book and it made me mildly curious. When I found the book on clearance I stopped having excuses on why I hadn't read it yet. I enjoyed the book for the most part, there were a few slow moving areas and a couple things that just made me go \"huh?\" but otherwise it was definitely a relatable book. Carmen, Bridget (Bee), Tibby, and Lena have been best friends forever. This summer marks the first one that they will be spending time away from each ot I had seen previews for the movie adaptation of this book and it made me mildly curious. When I found the book on clearance I stopped having excuses on why I hadn't read it yet. I enjoyed the book for the most part, there were a few slow moving areas and a couple things that just made me go \"huh?\" but otherwise it was definitely a relatable book. Carmen, Bridget (Bee), Tibby, and Lena have been best friends forever. This summer marks the first one that they will be spending time away from each other. Carmen will be visiting her dad, a trip which she is excited to spend one on one time with him. Bridget is going to soccer camp in Mexico. Tibby will have to stay home and work at the local store, something she is entirely not looking forward to. Lastly, Lena will be headed to Greece with her younger sister to stay with their grandparents for the summer. To hold them together, they agree to all ship a special pair of pants to each other throughout the summer, and do great things while wearing them. These pants are so special because, not only are they a thrift store find, they also fit each of the girls perfectly, despite them all being different sizes and body shapes. Lena gets to start and with her, the traveling pants experience a boy wanting to get close to her but then causing problems between her grandparents and their friends. She wants to fix the issues but isn't quite sure how to go about it. Next they travel to Tibby who has befriended a younger girl with Leukemia. The girl drives her nuts but as the summer goes along, she grows closer to this new found friend. Carmen has the next turn and the pants find her lonely and confused at her dad's, where after her plane landed, she discovers that he has a new family; a fiance with two kids just as blond as he is and with whom she doesn't fit in (Carmen is part Puerto Rican). As she grows angrier at being invisible in this beautiful family her temper starts to unleash. Last of all the pants go to Bridget, who has developed a crush on a camp counselor and who has also been just a bit too daring after the death of her mother. After traveling with each of the girls in that order, they also go backwards in the chain and give each girl a chance to rectify her mistakes. The characters were likeable in this book. A girl could identify with any of them at some point and time and the struggles they were experiencing. Tibby was my least favorite. I just didn't connect with her as well as she seemed very immature to me. I probably felt the deepest connect with Carmen and her struggles with her family. What I couldn't understand though was why the author kept having her feel guilty about what she was doing, perhaps it was a little temperamental but in my opinion she had good reason. Her father and his \"new family\" were horrible from my view. That man should have been very ashamed of himself instead of clueless. The writing of course is geared towards young adults and children so it is very easy to read. There aren't a lot of big words or ideas although there are some tough ones. This book touches on losing virginity, death, and other mature themes and my not be appropriate for very young children. Each chapter starts out with a quote or proverb and while you'd think that each chapter would be centered on girl as they are short chapters; they are not. They skip around from girl to girl and its actually kind of off putting and hard to follow. I think she would have done much better by breaking the girls stories up instead of formatting it the way she did. It caused me to enjoy the book a little less. The story is told in third person for all except the prologue and epilogue, which are narrated by Carmen. It is a good story about growing up and I see it as perfect for younger girls. If I ever chance by the sequel I'll definitely read it. The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants Copyright 2001 294 pages Review by M. Reynard 2011 ...more This book was on my TBR for way, way too long. In fact, I even watched the movie first! I am so happy I finally got around to reading this I fell in love with their friendship right from the beginning. These four lived for each other, and were completely lost when they were apart. I desperately want a friendship like that. They weren't afraid of anything when they were with each other. Even when they were spread out all over the world, they didn't stop writing, or talking about each other. I abso This book was on my TBR for way, way too long. In fact, I even watched the movie first! I am so happy I finally got around to reading this I fell in love with their friendship right from the beginning. These four lived for each other, and were completely lost when they were apart. I desperately want a friendship like that. They weren't afraid of anything when they were with each other. Even when they were spread out all over the world, they didn't stop writing, or talking about each other. I absolutely loved that. Individually, some of them were less great. Especially Carmen. Well, okay. Just Carmen. She was SO WHINY. Her dad was newly engaged, to a woman with two kids. So what does Carmen do? Not support her dad. Not make his life any easier. Whine about anything and everything. She did try to talk to him about it. She didn't ask to leave. She just moped around, and ruined a good holiday for everyone. Yeah, he wasn't exactly understanding. He did a few things that deserved a punch in the face. But she could have helped herself. I really, REALLY disliked her. Bee was my favourite. She was so... Vivacious. I've always wanted a chance to use that word, and she is the perfect excuse. Bee is afraid of no one. Rules? Pah. What rules? She fell for her soccer coach, and my God she was going to get him. Nothing was going to stand in her way. She had fantastic hair, so she was going to use it. Her ending broke my heart. She lost a little of her spark because of the mistake she made. And that's not okay! I need my vivacious Bee! Lena was quite sweet. I got annoyed about how much she went on about her prettiness. I know, the point was she fought against that. But she sure did mention it a lot. I loved her little crush on Kostos. I loved how she wouldn't do anything brave about it, for logical reasons. Even though they were totally perfect for each other. I also quite liked her relationship with her grandfather. It wasn't explored much, because he spoke Greek, so conversations were limited. But she really liked him, and looked up to him. Sweet is the only word I can think of to describe her. Tibby's story was probably my favourite, even if she wasn't my favourite character. I lived for the interactions between her and Bailey. Bailey was a little, spunky girl living with cancer. Tibby was so irritated by her to start with. But, of course, Bailey grew on her. How could she not? She irritated me a little in the beginning too, but by the end I just wanted to adopt her. I liked hearing about the suckumentary too. That's a documentary about things that suck, for those of you who don't know. It was cool seeing all the people she met. Especially Brian. Ah, Brian. Tibby was angry at the whole world around her, all the time. But with Bailey around, she wasn't. Fantastic character development! So. We have the whiny one, the vivacious one, the sweet one, the angry one, and a pair of travelling pants. Plus, of course, a bit of romance, some massive character development, and some heartbreaking losses (I'm not saying who!). Do I need to say more? ...more Kind of creative, a little irritating at times... My review of The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants ..... I understood going into this book that is probably wasn't going to be the book for me. A story of four best friends and the lessons learned on the first summer they spent apart *cue the sappy ass rom-com music* Whatever! I could sit here and go on and on about all the disasters that happen in this book and why it terrifies me that these \"coming of age\" stories are so well received by teenage girls but someone has probably done that better tha My review of The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants ..... I understood going into this book that is probably wasn't going to be the book for me. A story of four best friends and the lessons learned on the first summer they spent apart *cue the sappy ass rom-com music* Whatever! I could sit here and go on and on about all the disasters that happen in this book and why it terrifies me that these \"coming of age\" stories are so well received by teenage girls but someone has probably done that better than I. Also, I just don't see how venturing into the headspace of me as a 15 year old is going to be positive for anyone.... so, I'll give a brief synopsis on the four MCs, that I couldn't relate to in any real way, and what I think other girls may see and like in them. Bridget is athletic, energetic and goal oriented. She sees something and she just has to attain it, nothing can stand in her way..... even when it's a nineteen year-old coach at her soccer camp. Do.Not.Get.Me.Started.On.How.Stupid.This.Is! Bridget is completely reckless!! Single-minded AND self destructive! Carmen is peurto rican - get used to reading this, it is her excuse for all.the.things. - with a hair trigger temper and an absentee father. She feels abandoned and unloved, not surprising feelings, but is so quick to go on the offence that it is impossible to get close enough to care about her. Lena is bee-u-T-ful , like a goddess..... she is so beautiful, Oh-my-god .... and hates being seen as merely that. Trust me, I can understand hating being seen as only one aspect of your person but GET.OVER.YOURSELF and show the people another side of you. She gives evidence to the theory that shy girls are snobby girls, in a big way. Tibby is the lovechild of two parents who eventually grew up and decided they wanted to have a real family . Two siblings under 2 later, and a whole slew of other life changes, have left Tibby missing her previous hippesque lifestyle. I can understand why this could be an interesting story but it just wasn't for me. I found all the MCs voices annoying, not to mention all of their behaviour being self-destructive and crazy. Oh and don't forget insta-love and sappy solutions that make no sense! ...more 4.5 Stars Going into this book, I really didn't think it was going to be good. I guess it felt similar to a lot of other books that I'm not a fan of (like Jenny Han's books), and I was only trying it for a reading challenge. And I'm so thankful to that reading challenge right now because this book really surprised me and I enjoyed it a lot. It follows four girls--Tibby, Bridget, Lena and Carmen. Carmen gets a pair of jeans at a thrift shop and when the four friends try them, they seem to be 4.5 Stars Going into this book, I really didn't think it was going to be good. I guess it felt similar to a lot of other books that I'm not a fan of (like Jenny Han's books), and I was only trying it for a reading challenge. And I'm so thankful to that reading challenge right now because this book really surprised me and I enjoyed it a lot. It follows four girls--Tibby, Bridget, Lena and Carmen. Carmen gets a pair of jeans at a thrift shop and when the four friends try them, they seem to be magical because they fit all four of them. The girls make a pact to take the pants with them on their separate vacations and mail them to each other on schedule. That's when the journey of the Travelling Pants begins. And these were quite a pair of jeans, I tell you. I loved the initial description/introduction. Never have an ordinary pair of blue jeans had that much character. In the beginning, I was kinda interested in knowing if the pants were actually magic (side-effects of reading too much fantasy) but soon after, it ceased to matter. The story is more about the four girls and about what those plain jeans symbolise for each of them. They symbolize strength and comfort and, most importantly, their friends. And they really help on the different journeys. As for the journeys, I'm gonna let you read them for yourself. I loved reading each one and I really grew to care for all the girls. They were all very different characters and they all made their own mistakes and learned from them. They grew in many different ways and, honestly, this book has so much to offer to young girls and even to older people. It was a wonderful read. Except for the part with the parents. It just baffled me how neglectful they were. When I was fifteen, my mom would've freaked if I'd gone to buy cookies without telling anyone. And here, they can just book a flight and leave the state and it's no biggie. It feels like the author didn't know what to do with the parents other than when they were needed. That was a little sloppy. But otherwise, everything was great. The book was well written, touching and also a lot of fun. I loved it and I highly recommend it. ...more 3.5 Summer Stars I thought this was a cute fun quick read. Saw the movie years ago so it was all brand new to me. There's a little bit of sadness and some frustration. Overall a good summer friend read. I look forward to reading the whole series and see the cast grow up. Ok I literally finished this at midnight so I'm going to do my review now :) I had first read this book when I was in about 5th grade and I remember LOVING it. (bridget was my fav) But re-reading this as I am older made me realize how unrealistic it is. It makes me sad to realize I am old enough to say that *shudders* Bridget goes to a soccer camp in Mexico and falls in love with one of the councilors.She is about 15 he is 19. When I was 10 I thought \"aww but they are so cute! It's not that big of Ok I literally finished this at midnight so I'm going to do my review now :) I had first read this book when I was in about 5th grade and I remember LOVING it. (bridget was my fav) But re-reading this as I am older made me realize how unrealistic it is. It makes me sad to realize I am old enough to say that *shudders* Bridget goes to a soccer camp in Mexico and falls in love with one of the councilors.She is about 15 he is 19. When I was 10 I thought \"aww but they are so cute! It's not that big of an age difference\" Now? Now I realize how stupid it is. Lena goes to Greece which I am super jealous of not going to lie. Her summer was one of my favorites. Carmen I actually felt bad for, her dad was awful. Tibby's summer is always the one that makes me cry. SO I gave this a 3.5/4 star rating. It always makes me remember being in 5th/6th grade and loving these characters. These books will always hold a dear place in my heart, but I don't know if I will continue re-reading the series. ...more I was really looking forward to reading The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, and I had really high expectations, especially since I ADORE the movie, but this is a rare case of me liking the movie better than the book itself. The book was just okay for me. The writing was good and all, though I still found myself extremely bored throughout the majority of the book, just not my cup of tea. Fairytale friendship. Magical pants.Twisted summer. What more can a person want? Review to come Perry Kim Mrs. Elshoff English 9 2016.11.20 Maturity of the Traveling Pants The more we get hurt, the more we become stronger. Most of us, who struggle to success in lives, often crash into conflicts to fulfill our goal. We may be able to overcome the conflict, or maybe we fail, but no matter what the consequences are, we end up with experience and maturity. The book, Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, by Ann Brashares, shows perfect examples of four different youths attempting to find satisfying an Perry Kim Mrs. Elshoff English 9 2016.11.20 Maturity of the Traveling Pants The more we get hurt, the more we become stronger. Most of us, who struggle to success in lives, often crash into conflicts to fulfill our goal. We may be able to overcome the conflict, or maybe we fail, but no matter what the consequences are, we end up with experience and maturity. The book, Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, by Ann Brashares, shows perfect examples of four different youths attempting to find satisfying and unique answers to their own problems. Throughout the story, Ann Brashares uses four protagonists, Tibby, Carmen, Bridget and Lena, to deliver crucial lessons to the readers. The first lesson Ann Brashares gives is to not have prejudicial discrimination toward appearance. The four girls have very different appearances, and the extreme differences between the girls can be seen easily on early passages: \u201cIf they fit Carmen, they aren\u2019t going to fit you\u201d (5), or \u201cFine. Don\u2019t expect them to fit or anything. I\u2019m sure they won\u2019t.\u201d (8). Lena has gorgeous look whereas, Tibby and Bridget have very normal and boyish presence. Despite the fact that they have varied body shapes, they find pants in Carmen\u2019s house that fit all of them perfectly. They claim that these pants are magical and start to give their own pants to one another for \u2018friendship\u2019. Pants, the symbol of friendship and goodwill, disables the impact of appearance. Accordingly, the author implies that judgment based on appearance is an intolerable behavior. Next, Ann Brashares asserts the readers to not judge until one understands it in one\u2019s heart. In Greece, Lena meets her new boyfriend, Kostos, introduced by her mother. Mother hasn\u2019t recognized that Lena isn\u2019t interested in any boys and she ends up hating Kostos. One day, Lena goes for a tan to a beautiful and quiet lake, where she finds Kostos. She misinterprets this as Kostos spying on her and the misunderstanding goes beyond control of her grandparents and his grandparents fighting. Later on, she finds Kostos again in the lake, but this time swimming. Lena finally understands that he wasn\u2019t spying on her after all. Feeling sorry, Lena draws her best on drawing Kostos to apologize to him. During this process, Lena falls in love with Kostos. \u201cShe hoped this painting would say to him in Lena-language that she recognized that it was his special place and that she was sorry\u201d (120). Consequently, Lena\u2019s half measured judgment causes an unpleasant relationship between the two families and weakens her courage even to apologize. Ann Brashares involves \u2018acceptance\u2019. Carmen, the number one protagonist, goes to South Carolina to stay with her father. Carmen is excited at first; however, when she arrives at Carolina, she hear the shocking new: her father has been engaged with new wife, Lydia. Carmen feels strange to have a stepmother, and betrayal from her father. Then, she hates her new family even more when Lydia reveals her ex-husband was a drinker. Carmen begins to feel more sorrow than ever to see her beloved father to have such mannerful attitude toward the abhorred, Lydia. She winds up raging at her father in front of the new family, plus breaking a window. After finding inner peace at her friend, Bethesda\u2019s house, she comes back to her house with an envelope with an apologetic message. (111) Ann Brashares implies a good instance of a girl accepting her new family, therefore telling the readers that accepting is an important component in life to move on. All in all, in the sisterhood of the traveling pants Ann Brashares has entailed imperative morals in life the story. By this, young readers are able to find tips in the book to overcome conflicts and adults for emphasize to a similar event that happened in their own life. Overall, all four characters had shared the same theme \u2018friendship\u2019, Lena has an alone theme of appearance discrimination and Carmen has the moral of \u2018accept!\u2019. The morals have granted meanings in the story to help the readers and to make the plot more interesting Work Cited Brashares, Ann. The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants. New York: Delacorte/Random House Children's, 2001. Ann Brashares - [Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 01. ABC Amber LIT. Web. ...more Carmen got the jeans at a thrift shop. They didn\u2019t look all that great: they were worn, dirty, and speckled with bleach. On the night before she and her friends part for the summer, Carmen decides to toss them. But Tibby says they\u2019re great. She'd love to have them. Lena and Bridget also think they\u2019re fabulous. Lena decides that they should all try them on. Whoever they fit best will get them. Nobody knows why, but the pants fit everyone perfectly. Even Carmen (who never thinks she looks good in Carmen got the jeans at a thrift shop. They didn\u2019t look all that great: they were worn, dirty, and speckled with bleach. On the night before she and her friends part for the summer, Carmen decides to toss them. But Tibby says they\u2019re great. She'd love to have them. Lena and Bridget also think they\u2019re fabulous. Lena decides that they should all try them on. Whoever they fit best will get them. Nobody knows why, but the pants fit everyone perfectly. Even Carmen (who never thinks she looks good in anything) thinks she looks good in the pants. Over a few bags of cheese puffs, they decide to form a sisterhood and take the vow of the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants . . . the next morning, they say good-bye. And then the journey of the pants \u2014 and the most memorable summer of their lives \u2014 begins. I really loved this book. It took a little time to get started and I was beginning to think that it was just another fairly enjoyable teen book - but then it really got going, the characters were fleshed out and I fell in love with all of them. The characterisation was so good! The girls were so different but such complete personalities. Fantastic! I read it in one sitting! I was a bit doubtful about the speed of the postal service (especially to Santorini) but there are times when we just have to suspend belief a little :-) ...more", "Title": "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants"},
