{"Comments": "By now most people know that the Bottle-Nose Dolphin is pretty much one of the biggest assholes in the animal kingdom. You know, for randomly hunting down and stalking and killing porpoises, sharks and baby dolphins for no other reason than the pure joy of murdering them in cold blood and so that then can then go off and rape other dolphins. However, the African Bat Bug could easily surpass the dolphin as one of nature's biggest bastards. Male Bat Bugs seem to have decided one day to pass over th By now most people know that the Bottle-Nose Dolphin is pretty much one of the biggest assholes in the animal kingdom. You know, for randomly hunting down and stalking and killing porpoises, sharks and baby dolphins for no other reason than the pure joy of murdering them in cold blood and so that then can then go off and rape other dolphins. However, the African Bat Bug could easily surpass the dolphin as one of nature's biggest bastards. Male Bat Bugs seem to have decided one day to pass over the perfectly good female genitalia in order to stab the females in the gut with their bug-wangs. Then they go and stab other males in the gut. Basically they think abdominal wounds are just freakin' hilarious. Nobody knows why these bugs are so damn sadistic. The male African Bat Bug would really like to stab her in the gut. If she were Peter Parker, then I'd kind of understand the compulsion After reading <+++>Dead Witch Walking</+++>, I think I empathize.<---F> There is a good story here</---F>. A solid story. Just as functional as the female African Bat Bug's vagina (<---B>not that I've ever seen one...</---B>) yet <---A>Kim Harrison</---A> doesn't seem content to make this story easy or pleasurable to read. She kind of wants to cause us pain. The part where Nick made a pact with the demon (I'll let you go if you take us home kind of agreements) and then the demon decided later that they owed it more, was just dumb! If you get in a taxi and the driver tells you it'll be fifty bucks home only to wait until you get out of the car and stab you with a knife for not giving it $150, then you'd kind of think that's ridiculous. Yet everyone just seems to go along with this. Rachel can't even quit her freakin' job without having someone try to kill her. This is a world that is just really unnecessarily annoying. I understand she wants to ratchet up the action, but most of it just doesn't make sense. Once again,<---M> perfectly good vagina</---M>, and Harrison stabs us in the gut. So whilst I didn't think this book was quite as horrible as many other people seem to feel it was, I also can't say that I loved it or was particularly fond of it. I'm interested to see where Harrison takes the characters. The writing was okay and the characterization was interesting and fresh. I applaud Harrison for being somewhat unconventional in her writing and storyline, but there's a different between spicing up the bedroom and splicing up someone's abdominal area with your giant bug banger. ...more *3.5 shadowed stars* My head tells me 3 stars, but my heart says 4. Which makes an average of 3.5 (but you knew that already.) WOW. Yes, that is the reaction I had after starting <+++>Dead Witch Walking</+++> (great title by the way.) I was so surprised while discovering every \u2018creature\u2019 this book contains. There are witches, vampires, trolls (apparently,) fairies, PIXIES... PIXIES guys. There are PIXIES. Plus, one of them is an important character of the story! I\u2019m talking about this one: (On the left, we hav *3.5 shadowed stars* My head tells me 3 stars, but my heart says 4. Which makes an average of 3.5 (but you knew that already.) WOW. Yes, that is the reaction I had after starting Dead Witch Walking (great title by the way.) I was so surprised while discovering every \u2018creature\u2019 this book contains. There are witches, vampires, trolls (apparently,) fairies, PIXIES... PIXIES guys. There are PIXIES. Plus, one of them is an important character of the story! I\u2019m talking about this one: (On the left, we have Ivy (vampire) and on the right\u2026wait for it\u2026RACHEL (witch!)! And, in between, cute little pixie Jenks.) So, the world building was an A, for me, in the UF genre. The Fever series used to be in the lead, on the very very top, for the world building but The Hollows definitely took its position. (Sorry dear.) Rachel wasn\u2019t the best female lead ever. I prefer MacKayla Lane way better than her, but she sure has her charm. I just thought she was really acting stupidly and recklessly at some times. Like when she transformed herself in a mink and didn\u2019t plan a way of turning back immediately if being caught. Maybe she just couldn\u2019t but it annoyed me still. That brings another small issue I had with this book\u2026 It\u2019s slow. It was actually my first time, as I remember, reading an UF book that slow. The ones I usually read are fast-paced or have lots of action, events happening or mysteries to be solved. Yeah, I did lose interest when she was a mink. BUT, it\u2019s the only time I did lose interest, because I just couldn\u2019t before with the world building being so amazing. I don\u2019t really like shape shifters. I don\u2019t find anything interesting in reading a book with a person transforming herself into an animal. Although, that\u2019s very personal so maybe it won\u2019t be a bother for you as much as it was for me. I know I criticize this book more than I should, but I did like it a lot and I will read the sequels very soon for sure. It had few SMALL flaws though. Another one of them is it not having many IMPORTANT sexy, hot, charming and irresistible male characters. There are some random ones but they don\u2019t really last. I heard though that this book is actually not the best in the series so I look very forward to seeing how it\u2019ll go and especially some development (please) in Rachel\u2019s character. The writing was fabulous and just utterly perfect and surprisingly better than I expected. I read every book in Kim Harrison\u2019s trilogy for YA (Madison Avery) and it didn\u2019t quite work for me. I mean, it was interesting (the main subject) but the characters weren\u2019t as much developed and \u2018alive\u2019 as I hoped. Also, in the Madison Avery series, slowness was very (too much) present and this time frustratingly slow. I don\u2019t recommend that series if you have a big TBR pile. Was just OK. I do, however, recommend Death Witch Walking with sparkly eyes (and a big smile.) ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads The Hollows is another one of the first Urban Fantasy series I ever read. The bug had gotten\u00a0me, but I was still new enough to not really know what was available. I think I was just pursuing every lead Amazon gave me, and that was back in the 3-for-4 paperbacks days, so I was in the habit of ordering the first four books in any newly discovered series. Which was a good plan, b/c by the time I finished Dead Witch Walking , I was well and truly hooked, and if I had days to wa Reviewed by: Rabid Reads The Hollows is another one of the first Urban Fantasy series I ever read. The bug had gotten\u00a0me, but I was still new enough to not really know what was available. I think I was just pursuing every lead Amazon gave me, and that was back in the 3-for-4 paperbacks days, so I was in the habit of ordering the first four books in any newly discovered series. Which was a good plan, b/c by the time I finished Dead Witch Walking , I was well and truly hooked, and if I had days to wait before I could start the next book, I might have cried. <---C>Rachel Morgan</---C> (a witch) lives in one of my favorite UF worlds---the creatures-out-of-the-closet world. The first time I encountered this kind of world, I didn't know what to do with it---it was too foreign a concept for me to unquestioningly swallow. However, upon closer acquaintance, I realized how much simpler things were if the humans knew there really were things that went bump in the night: the hate groups could just be the standard bastard collection of racists and bigots instead of super, secret society types, and the creatures' actions weren't limited to what they could do without being, horror-of-horrors, discovered . Provided there was a reasonable explanation for why the creatures were out in the open, I soon preferred this set-up almost across the board. Unfortunately,\u00a0that's where my main issue\u00a0with The Hollows began . . . In Rachel's world, a disease piggybacking off a genetically modified tomato decimated the human population---the creatures, or Inderlanders , were mostly immune to the disease so that when the dust settled, for the first time perhaps ever , the humans and the creatures were, numbers-wise, largely equal. The Inderlanders took advantage of the situation and came out of the closet. If Harrison had left it at that, I probably would have been okay. But she didn't. Nope, she had the silly humans outlaw SCIENCE, b/c they were AFRAID. Afraid of SCIENCE. Afraid of TOMATOES. Just pathetically, ridiculously AFRAID. \"Outlaw science? What does that even mean?\" you ask. Well it means that the masses are dying of previously treatable illnesses, b/c silly humans destroyed the knowledge and shut down ( burned down) anything resembling a research facility. So yeah . . . that was a problem. More realistically, the silly humans also tried to deprive any Inderlanders of their jobs, especially if said job was some form of government employment. Newly deprived of gainful employment, the Inderlanders blew their noses at the\u00a0humans, and started their own government agencies. So there. Rachel works for one such agency, only she's been getting really crappy assignments (or runs ) for awhile now, and she's just about ready to quit. Except no one quits I.S. (Inderlander Security), the creature version of law enforcement, before their contract is finished . . . At least no one quits . . . Dun dun duuunnnnn . . . and survives . But Rachel thinks she's found the\u00a0out\u00a0she's been looking for when she captures her latest target, a tax-evading Leprechaun, who offers her 3 wishes in exchange for her freedom. It seems like the perfect solution. And it is. Until Ivy Tamwood, another I.S. Runner, former training partner, AND living vampire (can't forget that part), and Jenks, pixy back-up extraordinaire, decide they want in on the action. Ivy even proposes they put out a shingle together and start their own private runner service. What could possibly go wrong? Well, for one, Boss Man at I.S. is seriously pissed about Ivy buying out her contract (living vamps are loaded), so even though he admits to giving Rachel crap runs for the last two years in an effort to get her to quit, he decides to take his anger over Ivy leaving out on Rachel by\u00a0using Ivy's generous payout to fund the hits he keeps putting on Rachel's life. If that wasn't awkward (HA! Awkward!) enough, Ivy seems to have a bit of a crush on Rachel. And that's problem #2. Roommate situations already have the capacity for awkwardness, but when one of the roommates has \"secret\" feelings for the other . . . awkward in the extreme . And it has nothing to do with Ivy and Rachel both being female, so calm yourself. It'd be just as awkward if Ivy was a guy. No one wants to be dodging come-ons in their own home. Especially if the source of the come-ons is a vampire who wants to eat you . . . *snorts* . . . that's not what I meant, and you know it. *shakes head at gutter-minded people* BUT, on the whole this book was S-T-E-L-L-A-R. The characters are well-developed from the start, and if you ignore the ban on medical research, the world-building is fantastic too. Rachel is pretty kickass, and has limitless growth-potential, and the dash of romance is ridiculously cute. Action-packed, Dead Witch Walking will grab your interest and hold on to it . . . indefinitely. Don't let that scare you off though. The last book in the series comes out in September, and after that there's no reason you shouldn't be able to return to a productive life. ( Disclaimer: Rabid Reads can in no way be held responsible for addictions to really excellent books or\u00a0the shambles your life may potentially turn into due to your inability to do anything but read. ) My other reviews for this series: The Good, the Bad, and the Undead (The Hollows #2) Every Which Way But Dead (The Hollows #3) A Fistful of Charms (The Hollows #4) For a Few Demons More (The Hollows #5) The Outlaw Demon Wails (The Hollows #6) White Witch, Black Curse (The Hollows #7) Black Magic Sanction (The Hollows #8) Pale Demon (The Hollows #9) The Undead Pool (The Hollows #12) Into the Woods: Tales from the Hollows and Beyond ...more Don't let the cover, description, cover reviews, or hell, even the title throw you off on this one. It looks like a cheesy paperback. Possibly even a twisted romance novel, but believe me it's not. It takes place in a world where instead of going to the moon, money went into bioengineering. Of course something went wrong a virus got out, in tomatoes. Like a plague it started wiping out humans, Inlanders however (people and beings with mystical abilities, witches, weres, pixies etc.) were immune. Don't let the cover, description, cover reviews, or hell, even the title throw you off on this one. It looks like a cheesy paperback. Possibly even a twisted romance novel, but believe me it's not. It takes place in a world where instead of going to the moon, money went into bioengineering. Of course something went wrong a virus got out, in tomatoes. Like a plague it started wiping out humans, Inlanders however (people and beings with mystical abilities, witches, weres, pixies etc.) were immune. Well except for the Elves. They went completely extinct. It hit them worse than humans. By the time the thing was under control the population of regular humans and Inlanders was roughly the same. No longer feeling the need to hide, being as they were no longer the minority to be prosecuted, the Inlanders became open about who they were. Therefore regular humans and Inlanders live openly together. Well for the most part. There are prejudices. If you think that is a bit complicated, it's only the back drop. But don't let that scare you. The story is quite entertaining. Racel Morgan, witch, is a runner for the IS the inlander version of FIB. Basically the FBI or Police for naughty or rather evil Inlander's. Long story short, she breaks her contract with them and their best runner, Ivy (a living vampire) with her. So there's a death threat out on her head. She doesn't have the money to pay it off so she goes for the next best thing. She'll crack a case so good they'll have to leave her alone. Of course it means going after Cincinnati's best loved, most powerful, and due to his refusal to say whether he's human or Inlander, most neutral political body, Trent. It's not long before Rachel Morgan has more on her ass than a bunch of angry and magical assassins. I will grant that the first 20 pages or so of this book are a little bit cheesy. Ok a lot a bit. But in an amusing, we-know-it's-harsh-but-it's-just-to-pull-you-in kind of way. For instance she catches a leprechaun using charms that are a yellow moon, green clover, purple heart... ha. But after I was introduced to the intelligent back story, these quips were easy to forgive. And I promise eventually Jenks the nonstop talking pixie becomes less annoying, even to Rachel. As for the smutty romance part that the cover of this book in some odd ways seems to impart, forget about it. Romance is the last thing on Ms. Morgan's mind. Between disguises, almost dying, and spending an unruly amount of time as a rodent, she just doesn't have the time. The book was action packed, and kept me guessing. When I returned to it, it was like returning to a weekly drama. I liked it. I have only a few small complaints. 1. I think the slightly cheesy beginning could throw some people off. 2. Sometimes Rachel's inner insecurities don't reflect her outer actions, but perhaps that is the beauty of her character. She's so insecure she HAS to look tough. 3. A few minor fight moves in the last big fight seem to get pulled off a little too smoothly. After keeping it clumsily realistic for 320 pages, I wasn't ready for a perfect toss to trip and down a guy. But alas, minor complaint. 4. Sometimes the character of Rachel bothers me a bit. But just a bit. It's actually a good sign that I'm taking her seriously as a character. So yeah, I guess that's not really a complaint. Basically this is a first book a decently lengthened series, that I plan to purchase the rest of. It is my sinful little delight stacked up there with all my educational and political outlook books and good strong straight fiction. Hooray. I recommend it. The latest book is in Hardback and just came out. I can't wait to catch up to it! p.s. Harrison doesn't answer all questions, in fact she does a fine job of raising a few at the end, and you know what, I don't mind. That' s rare, but maybe it's because I know there's another book out there :) ...more Buddy read with the MacHalo group in June 2016. Ooops, I'm going to bail on this one, sorry guys. Urban fantasy is just not doing it for me these days, and since I've already read this series and it'd be a re-read anyway, I don't feel too bad. :P Quick generic review, though... if you like urban fantasies, this is hands down one of the best series in the genre, overall. Some books aren't as strong as others, but it only gets better. I know that can be annoying, but with this series, I think my fav Buddy read with the MacHalo group in June 2016. Ooops, I'm going to bail on this one, sorry guys. Urban fantasy is just not doing it for me these days, and since I've already read this series and it'd be a re-read anyway, I don't feel too bad. :P Quick generic review, though... if you like urban fantasies, this is hands down one of the best series in the genre, overall. Some books aren't as strong as others, but it only gets better. I know that can be annoying, but with this series, I think my favorite book was either book 8 or 9 ( Pale Demon ). Some of the best world-building I've ever read. Some of the best characters I've ever loved. Seriously. It's worth reading. This one was a little rough. I remember struggling through it a bit, but I'm glad I pushed through and kept going. A 20-something witch is the MC. You've got the vampire partner, demons, elves, pixies, shifters... no spoilers, so I won't go into details. Wonderful series, though. <3 ...more \"Book, you have the right to a speedy trial\" review THE DEFENSE - Lead heroine is funny and engaging, yet also flawed enough to feel real - I felt I could relate whenever Rachel Morgan did something stupid...plus when book characters screw up, it makes me feel not as bad for doing at least 8,000 stupid things a day! (That's an exaggeration, of course! I only do 7,999 stupid things a day tops!) - I also loved the supporting cast - Ivy the vampire is moody yet oh-so-adorable, Keasley never loses \"Book, you have the right to a speedy trial\" review THE DEFENSE - Lead heroine is funny and engaging, yet also flawed enough to feel real - I felt I could relate whenever Rachel Morgan did something stupid...plus when book characters screw up, it makes me feel not as bad for doing at least 8,000 stupid things a day! (That's an exaggeration, of course! I only do 7,999 stupid things a day tops!) - I also loved the supporting cast - Ivy the vampire is moody yet oh-so-adorable, Keasley never loses his cool, and Jenks the pixie may be the greatest scene-stealer since Winona Ryder told the makers of Girl Interrupted, \"So what if Angeline Jolie is fairly new at this, everyone will just be watching me anyway!\" - Magic system is far more thought-out than in most novels - Rachel doesn't just wiggle her nose and make stuff happen, there are very strict procedures she has to adhere to and limitations to her spells. Making Rachel powerful but not \" I can kick your ass with just my earlobe\" powerful added greatly to the suspense. - Interesting variation on the theme of vampire seduction - Since vampires are usually seen willingly seducing others, it was a nice change of pace to watch Ivy have to fight her natural instincts and try so hard NOT to seduce Rachel! THE PROSECUTION - Main story is severely lacking - Rachel leaves her job and now her former bosses are trying to kill her... annnnnnnd that's pretty much it for the first 200 pages! - Some of the plot points make no sense when you think about them: DENON - \"I've been trying to get Rachel to quit for the last two years, using my position as her boss to make her job a living hell!\" AIDE - \"Gee, if you want her out so bad, why don't you just fire her?\" DENON - \"...bosses can actually FIRE employees?!? Why...why was that not made clear to me before now?!?\" - Lead villain stumbles into Dr. Evil territory at times - \"Now that Rachel is trapped in the form of a mink and I have her locked up in this cage, I'll defeat her by enrolling her in a rat fight...you know, the one that takes place in a wide open area with plenty of opportunities for the combatants to escape...why are you all just shaking your heads at me, it's a brilliant plan, dammit!\" - Way too many unanswered questions at the end! - Okay, I understand this is only the first book in the series and the author wants to stretch some mysteries out, but it would have been nice if at least ONE of the questions raised in the book had been answered within these 400 pages! Exactly what kind of paranormal entity is the lead villain? What secrets is Rachel's newest ally hiding? Who sent the demon to kill Rachel? Your guess is as good as mine even after I read the book! THE VERDICT 3.5 Not-For-Everybody stars. I enjoyed the characters enough to overlook the flawed main story and multiple plot-holes, but people looking for a more cohesive story may find this one frustrating. Still, I hear this series only gets better, so I will certainly be revisiting The Hollows in the very-near future! ...more Hated, hated, hated this book. Rachel Morgan got on my last nerve, and by the end, I was ready for her to get killed. However, her partners Jinx and Ivy were loads of fun. In spite of the moderately engaging beginning, Dead Witch Walking finally lost me by about page 100. Unfortunately, no more Rachel Morgan for me. On the bright side, there is a potential in this series. I recently abandoned a couple of UF series because of the barenness of their worlds. In this book the mythology behind the story is rich. You never feel like the characters walk and interact in vacuum (that's how I felt reading Some Girls Bite and Halfway to the Grave ). Whatever is written about t In spite of the moderately engaging beginning, Dead Witch Walking finally lost me by about page 100. Unfortunately, no more Rachel Morgan for me. On the bright side, there is a potential in this series. I recently abandoned a couple of UF series because of the barenness of their worlds. In this book the mythology behind the story is rich. You never feel like the characters walk and interact in vacuum (that's how I felt reading Some Girls Bite and Halfway to the Grave ). Whatever is written about the Turn, witchcraft, vampires is inventive and interesting. On the other hand, the writing is very rough - a lot of weird and fragmented sentences that at some point become annoying. Just as an illustration, here are some examples just from one page of the book: Face cold, I nodded, and she released me. Impressed anew by her crucifix, I set aside my dinner and scooted forward. Frightened, I flicked my gaze from her to the cross. Swallowing hard, I scooted back into my chair. Moving with a provocative slowness, Ivy took her cross off. You see what I am talking about? If the writing were a little better polished, some unnecessary descriptions and thoughts were removed from the narration, the characters made a bit more sense (I often couldn't understand why people did what they did in this book - why was Rachel sooo freaked out by Ivy, why her ex-boss wanted to kill her so badly, etc.), the novel would have been much more enjoyable and dynamic IMO. Also, some hottie would be a nice addition too. As of page 100 there are no available love interests, unless you count Ivy as one. But I am not sure if Rachel is the type of girl who is into girls? Am I wrong? Dead Witch Walking is basically a book whose popular appeal I can sort of understand (like I understand Magic Bites 's popularity) but that doesn't appeal to me personally. Many readers say that the series gets much better after book 3, but I am an impatient reader and don't give writers second chances. ...more First to you who like this, I'm sorry. We can't all like the same books. I picked this up because it was recommended on the \"What to read while you're waiting for the next Dresden book\" thread. So: First I'm not a romance fan to begin with and I can pretty much say that I dislike every PNR (paranormal romance) I've ever \"accidentally\" picked up. Now, I can hear some of you saying, but this isn't PNR. At least the recommendation I went with said it wasn't. But if it's not, it's close enough for me. First to you who like this, I'm sorry. We can't all like the same books. I picked this up because it was recommended on the \"What to read while you're waiting for the next Dresden book\" thread. So: First I'm not a romance fan to begin with and I can pretty much say that I dislike every PNR (paranormal romance) I've ever \"accidentally\" picked up. Now, I can hear some of you saying, but this isn't PNR. At least the recommendation I went with said it wasn't. But if it's not, it's close enough for me. I almost put this book down 3 times before I finally did. I wanted to like it, I wanted to find an urban fantasy I'd like...really, I did. I won't list the points where I almost quit, or the place I finally hit the wall, yelled that's enough and put it straight into the back to the library stack, not until we get below a spoiler warning. The bottom line is the plot sounded fair to good, a bounty hunting witch who gets on the bad side of her own former agency and has a price placed on her head. Unfortunately the book got bogged down. We start out with Rachel on the \"bust\" of a leprechaun. She's fed up, it seems to her that her agency (her boss)has been slighting her and wants her to quit...so she does. It doesn't however go the way she planned. The book tried several times to pick up it's story line and move along, but it kept bogging down in exploration of Rachel's life. Not in the way other books do with their characters, filling in the corners of the world, fleshing out what we need to know about the magic, and the other races... no, we're exploring Rachel's relationship with her vamp (living vamp as opposed to dead vamp) room-mate/partner and her relationship with her other partner a pixie. Yet somehow, the characters remain shallow. Like I said I finally came to a point where I decided there are only so many hours left for me to read and a lot of books I'd far rather read than this one. So...one star, end of story, not for me. Enjoy if it's your cup of tea. (view spoiler) [I wasn't thrilled with the way the book opened. We were on a stake out and the story was already very much of a \"been there, done that\" (ya I get it...she likes to dress in leather, everyone mistakes her for a hooker, even though she's made it a point to tell us she doesn't have a lot in the cleavage area (though oddly just after that she uses \"what she has\" to distract someone). The fantasy world is one where supernatural folk are now out in the open as the majority of humanity (us normals, at least she didn't say muggles, of course she'd have had legal problems over that so there's a good reason) has died. I tried to stay with this book. When I see I'm about to dislike a book quite a bit I want to be fair... The first time I almost gave up was when we met the \"non-practicing\" vampire, (sigh)...but the book was going on to explain the difference between living and dead vamps. SO I stayed with it to see... I got to the point where they moved into the old church as an office and where Rachel and her \"living vamp\" partner (Ivy) would both be forced to also live (they've both lost accommodations and have little hope of finding more). I almost quit again when we had the scene where the vamp (Ivy) apparently tries to seduce Rachel...or maybe rip her throat out. She was, confused. I skimmed through it and moved on, \"give the book a chance\", I thought. I was then treated to Rachel's perusing of the \"How to have sex with a vampire without becoming dinner (or possibly the meal of your choice)\" manual her partner gave her. (Rachel continues to be straight she tells us, but doesn't really know how to deal with her partner).... I went on. Till we got to the sexy male vamp visiting the sexy (maybe bisexual?) female vamp (Rachael's partner Ivy again) and his move on Rachel (he just wants her for her blood, the sex would be incidental) and Ivy holds him off by saying ...\"she's mine\". I read a little farther on, but come on, enough is enough... If this is what you like, fine. When a book has spent more than half it's length on the possible...planned...dreamed...or whatever sex lives of the characters and I know more about that than about the actual plot, it's a little too much romance, paranormal or otherwise for me. If it's for you, then enjoy. Another nonstarter for me. (hide spoiler) ] ...more \"Everything was going too well. Something had to be wrong.\" Dead Witch Walking is the first installment of The Hollows series by Kim Harrison. It is an excellent opening book of the series: it is intriguing, with action, mystery, and humor in an appropriate balance. The main character, Rachel Morgan, a witch, works as a runner at \u201cInderland Security\u201d, but now quits her job to start her own business partnering with a vampire and a pixy. The story is about her struggle as she tries to get rid of \"Everything was going too well. Something had to be wrong.\" Dead Witch Walking is the first installment of The Hollows series by Kim Harrison. It is an excellent opening book of the series: it is intriguing, with action, mystery, and humor in an appropriate balance. The main character, Rachel Morgan, a witch, works as a runner at \u201cInderland Security\u201d, but now quits her job to start her own business partnering with a vampire and a pixy. The story is about her struggle as she tries to get rid of the blood price put on her head by her ex-boss, and gain her independence. She is talented but inexperienced. She is brave, sometimes too audacious. She makes mistakes, but never gives up. Making a spell is easy. It's trusting you did it right that's hard. Ivy, her partner and roommate is a \u201cliving vampire\u201d. She is beautiful, elegant, scary, extremely dangerous even to her friends, and mysterious. I wish I could say her weaknesses were my strengths, but Ivy didn't have any weaknesses other than the tendency to plan the joy out of everything. Jenks is Rachel\u2019s pixy aid and partner. His sauciness, camaraderie, and his family give an extra charm to the story. Four inches of blond bothersome annoyance and quick temper. The negative characters are likeable and repulsive at the same time. The world-building is simply explained, logical, and interesting. It has so much potential. Our history is that of humanity's. We didn't just drop out of the sky in '66; we emigrated in through Ellis Island. We fought in the Civil War, World War One, and World War Two-some of us in all three. We suffered in the Depression, and we waited like everyone else to find out who shot JR. The story is full of thrilling action, magic, and enough questions left open that make me want to read the further books of the adventures of Rachel Morgan. Originally posted on my blog on November 7, 2012. My favorite quotes. ...more Er...ok. So this is not going to be a complimentary review, as you've probably already guessed by the rating. I am a character-driven reader. I don't necessarily have to love a character to bits, but if I can get behind him/her, then I will come along for the ride, and be willing to overlook a lot of things, like faulty plotting. If I don't like the character, well, then I enjoy the book less, and become somewhat cranky. I notice choppy plotting/not-very-good writing. I am not a plot-driven rea Er...ok. So this is not going to be a complimentary review, as you've probably already guessed by the rating. I am a character-driven reader. I don't necessarily have to love a character to bits, but if I can get behind him/her, then I will come along for the ride, and be willing to overlook a lot of things, like faulty plotting. If I don't like the character, well, then I enjoy the book less, and become somewhat cranky. I notice choppy plotting/not-very-good writing. I am not a plot-driven reader, but sometimes, really good storytelling will keep me interested even when I dislike the characters. This book failed on both fronts. I wanted to slap Rachel, the main character, almost from the beginning, and was praying someone would shoot her dead and put me out of my misery. I didn't see much likeable/ interesting/ redeemable about her. She was not intelligent - and since every other person was dumber than she was, it made for a rather stupid cast of characters. The secondary characters were also boring and annoying in turns. Um... the story. It was published in 2004, (I'm guessing) in the infancy of UF. I don't know if it would have been considered cutting edge/excellent in it's time, but now that the genre has taken off, it is just bad prose and bad plotting. And bad editing/copy-editing. There were some glaring errors I caught several times. I do not think I will be reading more of the books in this series; it's not for me. I might try other books Kim Harrison has written, but probably later. I don't recommend this one. ...more 4.5/5 stars. *singing* Attttaccccccckkkk of the killer tomatoes! How can I resist starting this review without that lovely song? I can\u2019t say I\u2019ve ever read a book with so much tomato-hate. Genetically mutated tomatoes have caused much havoc to the human world in the Rachel Morgan universe, and that sets up an interesting world where humans live with pixies, witches, vampires, and other creatures of the night. After I finished the book, I read a lot of reviews on amazon where people strongly disl 4.5/5 stars. *singing* Attttaccccccckkkk of the killer tomatoes! How can I resist starting this review without that lovely song? I can\u2019t say I\u2019ve ever read a book with so much tomato-hate. Genetically mutated tomatoes have caused much havoc to the human world in the Rachel Morgan universe, and that sets up an interesting world where humans live with pixies, witches, vampires, and other creatures of the night. After I finished the book, I read a lot of reviews on amazon where people strongly disliked the book. I, happily, am not going to be one of those people. I believe that I am going to grow to really enjoy this series. It features some of my favorite urban fantasy elements \u2013 strong female, snarky humor, characters that are enigmas where you can\u2019t tell if they\u2019re really good or bad, and good sexual tension. I also felt like it was an original storyline with the various things that happened to Rachel throughout the story. I certainly couldn\u2019t have seen the mink/rat scenes coming! There was a fair amount of world-building that took place in the novel, but I didn\u2019t feel overly intimated with learning character names and places the way I feel in some series. I do admit, however, that I re-read the first couple chapters after making it about 40 pages into the book to reacquaint myself with everything that had happened. I really enjoyed the relationship between Ivy and Rachel in the book. It was interesting to try to determine whether Ivy had ulterior motives for quitting her job and moving in with Rachel. I wonder if I will learn more about that as I read future books in the series. I also really enjoyed the character of Trent. He was intriguing because he was a bit of a puzzle and Rachel had a love/hate thing going on with him during the novel. I like complicated characters in my books. I listened to parts of this book in audiobook form and read sections of it on my free kindle download as well. The narrator on the audiobook had some strange voices for some of the characters, but I grew to really like them after a while. As an example: Jenks, the pixie, sounds a bit like a stereotypical 1920s gangster with a pixie edge. A little weird, but fun to listen to :) Ivy, Rachel\u2019s vampire seducing roommate, had a very breathy/husky voice in the audiobook. At first I was a bit annoyed by that, but I grew to think that the voice fit her character\u2019s personality fairly well. So, you may wonder why I\u2019m giving this book 4.5 stars instead of an outright 5? The answer for me lies in the action and sexual tension. I felt there could have been more of both in the story, but I definitely see hints of good action and sexual tension to come in the series. So, I am excited about that. ...more I liked this series a lot but around book 4 it petered off for me. I need to get back on the horse. Imagine a world where every kind of supernatural creature was walking out in the streets without a care in the world about being seen by a human. Well, after a disease (enhanced by biodrugs because of course us, humans, are pretty stupid at the end of the day, okay) wiped out most humans and the supernatural was forced to come to light since they were immune to it, the world is mostly run by the supernatural considering how they've come to outnumber us. And overpower us. There's definitely that, Imagine a world where every kind of supernatural creature was walking out in the streets without a care in the world about being seen by a human. Well, after a disease (enhanced by biodrugs because of course us, humans, are pretty stupid at the end of the day, okay) wiped out most humans and the supernatural was forced to come to light since they were immune to it, the world is mostly run by the supernatural considering how they've come to outnumber us. And overpower us. There's definitely that, too. Witches, vampires, faeries, pixies, warlocks, demons.. Oh and much much more, I won't even delve into the kinds. Rachel Morgan is part of an organization that is responsible for handling rogue supernatural creatures. It's IS. Inderlander Security. Inderlander are called those with special abilities & generally every kind of creatures is part of the supernatural world. There's also the human counterpart of IS which is the FIB, and they handle different matters and anything they can't handle they hand on to the IS. Rachel Morgan isn't happy with her life. She works, works, work and she does nothing else but work. She doesn't have friends. She doesn't have a boyfriend. Until one day her boss decides to fire her and since Rachel and Ivy, a hot, tempered living vampire made a pact to leave the IS together, her boss puts a price on her head for taking Ivy with her. Yes, no one can ever leave the IS. You'll either be fired or you'll leave on your own and have your head served on a plate in a few months on the boss' desk. Ivy is one hell of a vampire. She's a living vampire, meaning she is a vampire who has the 'virus' of vampirism but hasn't still died. Meaning she's not so bloodlusty as the dead vampires and that she can go out into the sun. In Rachel's team there's also Jenks, a pixy who's snarky and about all kinds of awesome. I haven't told you what these 3 are trying to do together. Well, let me give you a clue. Someone is creating and shipping off biodrugs which is the very reason of the extinction of half the human populace. They know exactly who he is. The problem is that they do not have enough evidence to incriminate him. A very captivating novel and very well-written, I'll admit. With snarky & sharp characters who are funny and work amazingly as a team. The author manages to make it fast-paced without leaving out anything and accomplishes to satisfy all of my expectations. I didn't have high expectations but I definitely do have those for the next installment in the series. I hope it's as thrilling as this was. ...more Re-read it for work-related purposes. And actually, it was much better the second time around. Or maybe Anita Blake's obnoxiousness simply desensitized me. Rachel is still dumb, but at least I like all the other characters, or at least I find them interesting enough to keep me going! 08/07/01 This book is lame, there is no other way how to say it. Rachel Morgan, the main heroine, is a little miss know-it-all and at the same time she is embarrassingly stupid. She considers herself a good runner (a Re-read it for work-related purposes. And actually, it was much better the second time around. Or maybe Anita Blake's obnoxiousness simply desensitized me. Rachel is still dumb, but at least I like all the other characters, or at least I find them interesting enough to keep me going! 08/07/01 This book is lame, there is no other way how to say it. Rachel Morgan, the main heroine, is a little miss know-it-all and at the same time she is embarrassingly stupid. She considers herself a good runner (a sort of special agent or bounty hunter) but she doesn't know that fairies can enter holy ground. She refuses to make any sort of plans but she gets caught twice while breaking and entering and overall, the whole mink fiasco is just painful to read about. She lives with a female vampire whom she accuses of everything from borderline raping her to lying to her but she refuses to move out because, hey, said vampire is protecting her. She uses a man as a human shield when attacked but it's the attackers' fault, they forced her to do it - yes, refusing responsibiliy and yelling \"you made me do it\" is really mature. The only saving grace in this book is the character of Nick who is intriguing from the moment he appears - unfortunately too late into the plot itself for me to enjoy the book as a whole - and I'm sorry that the author didn't write about him rather than about a whiny heroine that switches from completely incapable to supergirl on regular basis. ...more On a scale of 1 to done I'm: Me trying to get a grasp on this book: Me every time Rachel opened her mouth: . . . so yeah, I could go on but I think you get the point. There was so much potential it hurt . But by the end I was doing some heavy skimming and only went on because I was close to finishing anyways. I just really couldn't get into this one :( This book just wasn't for me, sadly. Zabavno, uzbudljivo, na momente i vrcavo... Mnogo bolje od True Blood serijala, a Rej\u010del Morgan je svakako dopadljivija i duhovitija od Suki Stekhaus. A i bolja je \u017eenska ;) U\u017eivancija :) What can I say that hasn't been said? The action was good, not great, but good. At the end it got way better, but still not as good as some books I gave 4 stars in UF. Some parts were really slow, specially at the beginning. And the fact that it has no romance at all was something that bothered me. It's not only that it has no romance, she doesn't even get interested in someone. I was expecting much more form this book as everybody was talking about this series, I mean it was a good read, and read What can I say that hasn't been said? The action was good, not great, but good. At the end it got way better, but still not as good as some books I gave 4 stars in UF. Some parts were really slow, specially at the beginning. And the fact that it has no romance at all was something that bothered me. It's not only that it has no romance, she doesn't even get interested in someone. I was expecting much more form this book as everybody was talking about this series, I mean it was a good read, and reading about witches is something new for me. I like it, and I definitely will be reading the next book. I was really fond of the bad guy as a possible lover for her, I don't know why because he treats her like sh*t, but he was the most interesting character in the book. ...more 3.5 Solid Series Start Stars Whenever I\u2019m starting a new series that is more than 3 books long I don\u2019t expect a lot from the first book. I only expect it to give me a taste of the world and the main characters. As I dip my toe into the Hallows pool to get a feel for the series I\u2019m hopeful. The characters are intriguing and show promise, there are plenty of hints of things to come without really giving anything major away and the world was interesting enough that I might want to visit it multiple 3.5 Solid Series Start Stars Whenever I\u2019m starting a new series that is more than 3 books long I don\u2019t expect a lot from the first book. I only expect it to give me a taste of the world and the main characters. As I dip my toe into the Hallows pool to get a feel for the series I\u2019m hopeful. The characters are intriguing and show promise, there are plenty of hints of things to come without really giving anything major away and the world was interesting enough that I might want to visit it multiple times. So as a first book goes it totally hit the mark. Rachel got herself into plenty of sticky situations this book that can play out a variety of ways in the books to come. First she rooms with a female vampire who may or may not have the hots for Rachel, it is hard to say if Ivy\u2019s interests lie in Rachel, her blood or her body. Second she has a hit out on her and it seems like every Witch, Warlock and Were are out to get her not to mention the Fairies as well. Third she decided to go up against another big bad something in hopes of nulling the contract on her life. And finally it seems that if any situation can go wrong it will and she has made some pretty dangerous bargains with some pretty shady characters. Rachel seems like a heroine I can read about and maybe only get slightly annoyed when she does stupid stuff. Mainly because she generally knows it is stupid, but can\u2019t see another way to accomplish her goals. Plus she is funny and can make fun of both herself and her situations. The side characters were all interesting and I\u2019m sure will have very interesting backstories and motivations come out in the future books. For instance why did Ivy throw in with Rachel? What is Ivy\u2019s true interest in Rachel? Who is the neighbor across the street and more importantly what is he? How does Nick know all this stuff and why does he seem to know more about Rachel\u2019s world than she does when he is just a human? When you make a deal with a Demon what will that cost you down the road? What really happened to Ivy\u2019s father? Why did Denton want her out of the I.S. so bad? What the hell is Trent and what is his real gameplan? Etc\u2026.etc\u2026etc. This was a great blend of intrigue, action, humor with just a little hit of romance sprinkled on top. I appreciate the new take of the lore that was used especially with the Vampires and Pixies. Have both living and undead vampires was an interesting twist on the usual lore and the fact the Ivy is a non-practicing Vampire made her anal retentive ass all the more interesting. There were a few pacing issues in a few spots that sometimes happed in a first book especially but there wasn\u2019t much infodumping which I for one appreciate. I always like having a world revealed to me a step at a time. Okay Kim Harrison you have my attention and I\u2019m ready to wade further into this world you have created. ...more This is the second time I read this book. The first time I did, it left me absolutely unimpressed. Worse, it pretty much bore me to death and I thought it was only worth a two-star rating. So how did I go from giving this book two stars a year ago to giving it four stars today (more like a 3.5 actually)? The audio version!! Marguerite Gavin is a fantastic narrator and she makes all the difference here. Where the book was boring, she makes it exciting and lively. It did take me some time to get us This is the second time I read this book. The first time I did, it left me absolutely unimpressed. Worse, it pretty much bore me to death and I thought it was only worth a two-star rating. So how did I go from giving this book two stars a year ago to giving it four stars today (more like a 3.5 actually)? The audio version!! Marguerite Gavin is a fantastic narrator and she makes all the difference here. Where the book was boring, she makes it exciting and lively. It did take me some time to get used to Ivy\u2019s voice (I still don\u2019t like it very much) but Gavin does a great job with the other characters, especially Jenks. With Gavin\u2019s narration, Jenks really steals the show! Despite the excellent narration, the weaknesses of the book are still there: a desperately slow pace and words, words, words, too many words. Dead Witch Walking could definitely have done with some more editing. Some scenes are just too long and overly descriptive. The audio makes them a lot more entertaining but still, there is only so much a narrator can do. The very first scene in the book (at the bar) was much too long and I thought the mouse spell-making scene would never end! The book could have done with more action but the plot was entertaining. As this is the first instalment in a series, I guess it takes time to set things up and get the story in motion. This might be why Dead Witch Walking tends to be slow placed. Despite the obvious flaws, I enjoyed the story a lot. I like the world-building and the plot is fun and well structured. Still, what makes this book a great read is the cast of characters. I think I just love them all! The first time I read Dead Witch Walking I thought Rachel was uninteresting and incompetent. Well it looks like Gavin really did wonders for this book because I really like her now :) I like Ivy as she adds some tension to the story and I just LOVE Jenks. He really is one hilarious pixie! His lines just kill me and I found myself laughing out loud more than a few times. I love Trent. I love Nick. And Matalina. And Keasley. And Captain Edden (can\u2019t wait to find out what happens with the consulting job!). Hey, I even love poor Francis! Great characterization all around. There are some pretty great scenes throughout the book; here are a few of my favourite ones: - Pretty much any scene involving Jenks - Rachel reading the vampire dating guide - Rachel turning herself into a mink instead of a mouse - Rachel as mink, trapped in a cage in Trent\u2019s office - The rat fight - Jenks and Nick comparing scars - The demon attack and its aftermath at the church. - The aspirin episode with Captain Edden All in all, this was FUN! I\u2019m really surprised here because I didn\u2019t expect to like this book so much the second time around:) Now I can\u2019t wait to read the next instalment in the series! ...more genetically modified tomatoes \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2729 (This is a review of the audiobook.) I truly enjoyed Marguerite Gavin\u2019s narration of this first in The Hollows series, giving the first-person narrative for witch Rachel Morgan - who is a bounty hunter come private detective - great inflection, tone, and pacing. Nice differentiation of other voices, too. I\u2019m looking forward to listening to more of her readings as I continue the series. And I\u2019m definitely continuing the series! I just loved this book! I thought K genetically modified tomatoes \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2729 (This is a review of the audiobook.) I truly enjoyed Marguerite Gavin\u2019s narration of this first in The Hollows series, giving the first-person narrative for witch Rachel Morgan - who is a bounty hunter come private detective - great inflection, tone, and pacing. Nice differentiation of other voices, too. I\u2019m looking forward to listening to more of her readings as I continue the series. And I\u2019m definitely continuing the series! I just loved this book! I thought KH\u2019s alternate history paranormal world set in a parallel Cincinnati, Ohio, was fun and I enjoyed the variety of her characters and story-line. So many neat characters made it hard to pick a favorite. Ivy, a \u201cliving\u201d vampire? The pixie Jenks, or his wife Matalina? Too hard to choose. Great supporting characters, too. Favorite Quote: \u201cHe bit you on the neck? Oh, then it\u2019s got to be love. She won\u2019t let me bite her on the neck.\u201d I do like the rare glimpse we get of Ivy\u2019s dry humor. (view spoiler) [I do worry about Rachel, though. Her spur-of-the-moment decisions are always getting her into hot water. Plus, I think there is something we don\u2019t quite know yet about Nick... and I worry about her attraction or \u201cpull\u201d towards Trent. Also, the demon Algaliarept - AKA \u201cAl\u201d - is just plain scary. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Reviewed for Wickedly Bookish http://wickedlybookish.blogspot.com/ I actually liked this a lot more than I was expecting. Dead Witch Walking starts out slow, and I mean very slow. It takes about the first 100 pages for the plot to begin in earnest and another 50 for the action to start. Once the action gains some momentum, it doesn't stop until the end of the book. There are many negative reviews for this book here on Goodreads, and I have to agree with most of them that it suffers from the \"first Reviewed for Wickedly Bookish http://wickedlybookish.blogspot.com/ I actually liked this a lot more than I was expecting. Dead Witch Walking starts out slow, and I mean very slow. It takes about the first 100 pages for the plot to begin in earnest and another 50 for the action to start. Once the action gains some momentum, it doesn't stop until the end of the book. There are many negative reviews for this book here on Goodreads, and I have to agree with most of them that it suffers from the \"first book in the series\" syndrome and has some issues with the character development and relationships. However, even though the story takes a bit to get started, once it does it is hard to put the book down. I had to finish this last night to find out how it ended. Now, the ending is a bit lack luster, but there is a hint of promise for following books to be exciting. I have also heard that the rest of the series is amazing and this is just one of those books you have to get through to get to the good stuff. Don't let the slow beginning and lack of hottie love interests deter you form giving this series a try. Near the end we get a glimpse of future interests for Rachel so do not fear! I will definitely be giving the rest of the Hollows series a try. The lush world and engaging companion characters are well worth it. ...more I loved this book, and was moved to write by the string of two-star reviews. I was grabbed from the beginning by the fast pace and seamless world-building. I found it well-crafted, with a thumping fast adventure pace, well-placed mysteries, mis-directions and clues, and rare resorts to info-dumping to make the world come alive. The heroine is credible, far from omni-competent or a Mary Sue, as befits a young woman just striking out on her own professionally. She makes mistakes, learns from them, I loved this book, and was moved to write by the string of two-star reviews. I was grabbed from the beginning by the fast pace and seamless world-building. I found it well-crafted, with a thumping fast adventure pace, well-placed mysteries, mis-directions and clues, and rare resorts to info-dumping to make the world come alive. The heroine is credible, far from omni-competent or a Mary Sue, as befits a young woman just striking out on her own professionally. She makes mistakes, learns from them, struggles to understand her colleagues and her circumstances. She reminds me a bit of David Weber's Honor Harrington (though *much* less Mary Sue-ish) in that her primary virtue is the engendering of loyalty - and yes, her supporting cast does outshine her. I see that as a strength, not a flaw, in series novels - but I like ensemble casts in books, TV and comics. If you're looking to be spoon-fed a simple narrative of a rugged-individualist action hero, look elsewhere. If you want a realistically-portrayed new kid on the block, in over her head and held up by colorful, secretive allies running their own agendas, in a convincing SF/paranormal alternate present - pick this up. And be prepared to see a sunrise or two, because you won't be able to put it down. ...more kinda a combo of the sookie stackhouse series and the anita blake series. just hope i doesn't suffer the same fate. i re-read the book now and still like it, it's a really good start to a series. and i've read others in the series and the books stay good. I was given this book as a gift. The Hollows book #1 First, the back blurb: \u201cAll the creatures of the night gather in 'the Hollows' of Cincinnati, to hide, to prowl, to party...and to feed. Vampires rule the darkness in a predator-eat-predator world rife with dangers beyond imagining\u2014and it's Rachel Morgan's job to keep that world civilized. A bounty hunter and witch with serious sex appeal and an attitude, she'll bring 'em back alive, dead...or undead.\u201d It's been a while since I've read a back I was given this book as a gift. The Hollows book #1 First, the back blurb: \u201cAll the creatures of the night gather in 'the Hollows' of Cincinnati, to hide, to prowl, to party...and to feed. Vampires rule the darkness in a predator-eat-predator world rife with dangers beyond imagining\u2014and it's Rachel Morgan's job to keep that world civilized. A bounty hunter and witch with serious sex appeal and an attitude, she'll bring 'em back alive, dead...or undead.\u201d It's been a while since I've read a back blurb that said so very little about the book, and by now I should know to be suspicious when that happens. It's taken me three tries to get past page fifty of this book. The opening chapter is killer, as a skank-dressed Rachel Morgan stands outside a bar complaining about how her boss hates her and keeps giving her joke jobs (she works for an organization said to be like the FBI but it comes off a lot more like the IRS) then whining about all the jobs she's messed up lately. She assaults a man for buying her a drink (after mentioning, a lot, how much like a hooker she looks) and later as she uses disguise charms and potions to get around EVERYONE can see through them (so really, what's the point?). Readers should get used it this inconsistent way of storytelling because the book constantly goes back and forth between trying to convince us that Rachel is one of the best at her job, then showing her make loads of really poor decisions. In fact inconsistent is about the best way to describe the whole book, though halting and frustrating also fits. After bagging the tax-evading leprechaun she's after Rachel decides to shove her job where it belongs, accept a bribe from the criminal she just caught and go freelance. For unconvincing reasons a living vampire, Ivy, and a pixie name Jenks join Rachel. And despite her boss admitting that he'd been trying to force her to quit for years (why he didn't just fire her, I'm not sure) he then proceeds to spend a lot of money hiring people to kill her. Typically they fail due to sheer luck or other people saving Rachel, rather than her own skills. Half the time Rachel herself doesn't even notice death spells or people moving in to attack. Rachel, in turn, decides the best way to get her now ex-boss off her back is to try to bust a huge drug cartel case that he's working on before he does. There's also a very uncomfortable side plot involving a lesbian attraction between Ivy the vampire and Rachel. It's uncomfortable because Rachel is genuinely scared of Ivy's attraction to her, but Ivy's attraction appears to be built on things completely outside of Rachel's control. Rachel is Ivy's roommate and trying to find a way for their scents to never mingle, to never talk to her about her family or other vampires (although Rachel, super agent that she is, seems to know next to nothing about them when they're around) seems like expecting a woman to maim herself to prevent people on the street from finding her attractive. As for the world building, a bioengineered tomato launched the supernaturals' takeover and made science illegal, which raises more questions and ends up coming off more silly than serious (especially to readers of SF as well). Humans are almost prisoners to the supes, but still portrayed with derision, totally missing out on an interesting source of conflict (which really sums up the drama of the book, it's all forced, and the natural sources are glanced over and ignored). There's a whole language Rachel uses, but in the end it feels false because of a lack of supporting detail. When there is detail of the greater world of Harrison's world it lacks the lush richness of genre powerhouses like Laurell K. Hamilton and Ann Rice. Almost everything in the book comes off as stodgy and flat, and a complete inability to connect with or care about the main character makes me more than willing to let my book allowance relax a little by skipping out on the rest of this series. There's just too much crammed into this book with no context, atmosphere or charm, as if there's an attempt to make up for the lack of texture with fight scenes and drama that the main character had to be an idiot to get into in the first place. ...more I first discovered Kim Harrison's Hollows series about seven years ago and I remember devouring the first 6 or so books (all that was available to buy at the time) but somehow, what with my ever expanding TBR pile, I never got around to reading the rest of the books as they were published. It's been so long now that although I still have an overall fondness for the series I can't remember much of the detail from those early books so I think I'm well overdue a reread before I finally find out how I first discovered Kim Harrison's Hollows series about seven years ago and I remember devouring the first 6 or so books (all that was available to buy at the time) but somehow, what with my ever expanding TBR pile, I never got around to reading the rest of the books as they were published. It's been so long now that although I still have an overall fondness for the series I can't remember much of the detail from those early books so I think I'm well overdue a reread before I finally find out how the series ends. I'm going to write this review assuming you're totally new to this series so let's talk about the world that Kim Harrison has created. Imagine a world where half the world's human population was accidentally decimated by a man-made virus that spread through genetically modified tomatoes. Humans no longer have the largest population on the planet and that allowed supernatural creatures (who prefer to be known as Interlanders) such as witches, vampires and all kinds of other beings to step out of hiding. It helped that Interlanders had a natural immunity to the virus so they were able to step up and stop the world from falling to pieces as millions of humans started dropping like flies but that doesn't mean humans were thrilled to discover that monsters have been walking alongside them this whole time. Now there is an uneasy relationship between humans and Interlanders, for the most part the groups are segregated living in different communities but there will always be some crossover. Humans don't trust Interlanders and they formed a human only police force, the FIB (Federal Interland Bureau) to monitor the Interlanders. At the same time the Interlanders formed their own agency, the I.S. (Interland Runner Services) and although they focus more on the most dangerous Interland criminals there is still a lot of rivalry between the two sides. Rachel Morgan is a witch who works as a runner for the I.S. but she doesn't have the best relationship with her boss and she's always getting stuck with the worst possible jobs. Sick of being taken advantage of she decides to walk away from the I.S. and start her own agency but, unfortunately for her, nobody gets to just walk away from the I.S. so she's now in a whole heap of trouble. Especially when Jenks, her pixy back-up, and Ivy, a vampire who happens to be the I.S.'s best runner, decide to leave with her. I loved Dead Witch Walking from the first page, it was just so nice to be back in this world again and I thoroughly enjoyed catching up with Rachel, Jenks and Ivy. These three work together so well as they each have different strengths and weaknesses and I think they make a great team. I have to admit that Jenks and his family are favourites because they add a lot of humour to the story but Rachel is a brilliant heroine and I enjoy being inside her head. I love the world building in this series, there is always something fun about series where humans are aware of the supernatural creatures living amongst them and I like all the little details the author has included like the way humans react to tomatoes or how prejudiced they are towards Interlanders. I am still a bit confused about why they have turned so far against all forms of science though, it makes sense that they'd be wary but they've lost so much technology that they can't even treat a lot of fairly common illnesses and that can only be a bad thing. Perhaps they'll see the light as the series continues and start to rebuild what they've lost but I'm not convinced it's going to happen. Either way I'm just so glad that I've decided to revisit this series and I can't wait to carry on reading. ________________ Buddy read with the MacHalo crew starting 1st of June. We're planning on reading 1 book a month so it should be a really easy series read/reread (for me I've only ever read the first 5 or 6 books & it was a looooooong time ago so I remember very little about the series!). Anyone who wants to join us is very welcome :o) ...more Slow starter This is the first book in The Hollows series. I had been pre-warned by several different people that it was a slow-starter, but that the series gets better and better. Well, they weren't kidding! If it wasn't for my faith that it would, in fact, get better, I may not have got through the first 100 pages. It was such a slow start. The writing style doesn't flow, I kept stumbling back and forth and having to re-read bits. There is an inordinate amount of info-dumps\u2014Harrison clearly h Slow starter This is the first book in The Hollows series. I had been pre-warned by several different people that it was a slow-starter, but that the series gets better and better. Well, they weren't kidding! If it wasn't for my faith that it would, in fact, get better, I may not have got through the first 100 pages. It was such a slow start. The writing style doesn't flow, I kept stumbling back and forth and having to re-read bits. There is an inordinate amount of info-dumps\u2014Harrison clearly has a very distinct world full of weird creatures and a society fully aware of supernaturals, and she wants to tell you about the whole thing all at once\u2014and yet at other times she will mention something matter-of-factly, that you have absolutely no clue what she's talking about at all. However, it did get better. I feel like perhaps this book is the mountain which you have to climb to get to the good stuff. You have to pay the reading piper for the privilege by slogging your way through about eight incredibly tedious chapters. (In fact, there was an escape-type scene about 8 chapters in, and I couldn't help thinking she should have started the book there, and just referenced everything that happened before that in retrospect, Sort of a \"it all started when I quit my job\" thing). Also, I don't feel like I know much about leading lady Rachel yet. She was kind of busy in this book running for her life, granted, but I couldn't really tell you much about her. Anyway, onto what I did like, which can almost be summed up in a word: Jenks! I love him. He's a 4-inch tall pixy and he just completely rescued this book for me. His dialogue is hilarious and I just can't wait to see more of him. We met a villain (I think) whose motives I'm not really sure on at the moment, so I want to find out more on him. There's a potential love interest character as well, but he leaves me a bit cold to be honest. Rachel's vampire room-mate is also up to something, so I want to know more about that. And the guy that lives over the road... yeah, something fishy about him, too, I reckon. So it seems quite a few little seeds of intrigue have been carefully planted despite my reservations, which will make me pick up the next one. Let's hope it starts a heck of a lot faster than this one did! ( Edit: Two years later... This review is now hilarious to me considering this is now one of my all-time favourite series (I'm at book 11 now). So I guess I can safely confirm it does get better! I stand by my review, however, because that's how I felt at the time). ...more DNF @ 25% Apologies to my bff Charlie, I know how much you love these books but this is the second time I've tried this and I just can't get into it. For whatever reason urban fantasy and I don't often seem to click (we'll see what happens with the Mercy books) but besides Mercy Thompson the other real standout for me is the Owl series, and even those series are problematic at times. Seems like it's difficult to find an urban fantasy series that's not either hugely problematic or just dull and fo DNF @ 25% Apologies to my bff Charlie, I know how much you love these books but this is the second time I've tried this and I just can't get into it. For whatever reason urban fantasy and I don't often seem to click (we'll see what happens with the Mercy books) but besides Mercy Thompson the other real standout for me is the Owl series, and even those series are problematic at times. Seems like it's difficult to find an urban fantasy series that's not either hugely problematic or just dull and formulaic. By all accounts I should like this; she's a witch for God's sake. But it is what it is. ...more Finally finished. Took me about a year. Loved the writing, but unfortunately didn't like the story. Probably won't continue with this series. Just wasn't for me. Re-Read Review: First read (MMP) : Oct 2005 Re-read (Audio) : Jan 2015 Rating stands at \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 Re-read as a part of SOS' group series read It was a lot of fun returning to the beginning. I'd forgotten quite a bit, but that's to be expected after ten years and hundreds of books in between reads. I gotta say, I did not remember how whiny Rachel could be. Geeeeeeez! But, I love her, so I overlooked it and continued on. I can understand how this may land on some people's DNF list - it does suffer the fir Re-Read Review: First read (MMP) : Oct 2005 Re-read (Audio) : Jan 2015 Rating stands at \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 Re-read as a part of SOS' group series read It was a lot of fun returning to the beginning. I'd forgotten quite a bit, but that's to be expected after ten years and hundreds of books in between reads. I gotta say, I did not remember how whiny Rachel could be. Geeeeeeez! But, I love her, so I overlooked it and continued on. I can understand how this may land on some people's DNF list - it does suffer the first-in-a-series syndrome in spots. But, knowing what's to come, I was able to sit back and enjoy Marguerite Gavin's narration. Some of the things I'd forgotten, but loved: ~ How delightfully ruthless Trent and Jonathan are in the beginning ~ How sultry Ivy is when we first see her alone with Rachel ~ Just how unique Kim's living/undead vamps were at the time ...more", "Title": "Dead Witch Walking"},
