{"Comments": "I very rarely bother with crime novels. The genre feels overdone and, well, a little bit boring. To me it all looks like the same regurgitated story. I blame the terrible police dramas on television; they make me yawn when I see how stupid they are. I did a two year course in forensic science, and it never ceases to amaze me how the writers of these television shows think that wearing gloves will therefore mean that the crime scene is not contaminated by the otherwise exposed investigators. Neve I very rarely bother with crime novels. The genre feels overdone and, well, a little bit boring. To me it all looks like the same regurgitated story. I blame the terrible police dramas on television; they make me yawn when I see how stupid they are. I did a two year course in forensic science, and it never ceases to amaze me how the writers of these television shows think that wearing gloves will therefore mean that the crime scene is not contaminated by the otherwise exposed investigators. Never mind the fact that they are trampling over evidence, leaving their own hairs and jumping to ridiculous conclusions based upon preliminary testing. These things are horribly inaccurate to the professional field; they are always forensically inaccurate. So, regardless of how this is handled in modern crime books, I always avoid them to avoid similar annoyance. This, however, isn\u2019t a modern crime book. This is a murder mystery set in the political upheaval of Tudor England. The churches are undergoing dissolution, hence the title of the book.<---F> This,<---M> to me</---M>, sounded utterly fantastic</---F>. I mean, at last, a crime book that I want to read. I have a real interest in the Tudor period of history. It was a reign that changed the face of England. I mean, imagine how different the country would be today if King Henry VIII never broke with Rome, and with the Pope. Arguments between branches of Christianity may never have become so heated. King Charles I may never have been executed for his Catholic sympathies, amongst other things. The <+++>Dissolution</+++> with the Catholic Church changed the face of England forever along with its sequential history. Murder in the monastery This book combines a classic whodunit scenario with the intrigue of the sixteenth century; it is brilliantly handled. At the heart of this book is a very human character: <---C>Matthew Shardlake</---C>. Shardlake is a commissioner sent, by Thomas Cromwell, to investigate his predecessor\u2019s murder at a monastery. Shardlake has a twisted back so is consequently spurned by the religious zealots of the time. This immediately drew upon my sympathy. He is obviously no different to his peers, but for all their supposed enlightenment, toward the religious reforms, they still shallowly judge someone for their appearance. It\u2019s a cruel world. This along with Shardlake\u2019s unsuccessfulness with the ladies, results in a very damaged yet resolute commissioner. \"This is not Thomas More\u2019s Utopia, a nation of innocent savages waiting only for God\u2019s word to complete their happiness. This is a violent realm, stewed in the corruption of a decadent church.\" Thus, his investigation is no easy affair. He is met with disgust, scorn and damn right revulsion at every turn. But, he overcomes it. He is used to it, and has risen far above it. He gets on with his job and sets out to find what caused the death of a supposedly innocent man. Shardlake is clever, compassionate and determined. He has the nose of a bloodhound. He analyses the facts in a pragmatic way; he doesn\u2019t jump to conclusion and only delivers a realistic approach to the crime. He questions everything, which left me in a continuous state of suspense until he found his answers. The historical setting of the churches, the towns and the people are brought to life. The turmoil the age is captured along with the skulduggery of its inhabitants. Thomas Cromwell is portrayed as a mean old brute which is quite interesting after reading Hilary Mantel\u2019s version of him in which he is sympathised with, greatly. The scenario in this book kept me questioning everything. At one point there were at least seven suspects. Each had a strong motive. As the focus of the suspicion changed, so did the plausibility of each motive. I am proud to say, that my initial guess was half right. I\u2019ll say no more on that regard, other than this had a really intense ending. It's a great read. Shardlake series 1. <+++>Dissolution</+++>- A suspense filled four stars. 2. Dark Fire- A dark 3.5 stars ...more \u201d\u2019This is not Thomas More\u2019s Utopia, a nation of innocent savages waiting only for God\u2019s word to complete their happiness. This is a violent realm, stewed in the corruption of a decadent church.\u2019 \u2018I know.\u2019 \u2018The papists will use every means to present us from building the christian commonwealth, and so God\u2019s blood I will use every means to overcome them.\u2019 \u2018I am sorry if my judgement erred.\u2019 \u2018Some say you are soft, Matthew, \u2018 he said quietly. \u2018Lacking in fire and godly zeal, even perhaps in loyalty.\u2019 Lo \u201d\u2019This is not Thomas More\u2019s Utopia, a nation of innocent savages waiting only for God\u2019s word to complete their happiness. This is a violent realm, stewed in the corruption of a decadent church.\u2019 \u2018I know.\u2019 \u2018The papists will use every means to present us from building the christian commonwealth, and so God\u2019s blood I will use every means to overcome them.\u2019 \u2018I am sorry if my judgement erred.\u2019 \u2018Some say you are soft, Matthew, \u2018 he said quietly. \u2018Lacking in fire and godly zeal, even perhaps in loyalty.\u2019 Lord Cromwell had the trick of staring fixedly at you, unblinking, until you felt compelled to drop your gaze. You would look up again to find those hard brown eyes still boring into you. I felt my heart pound. I had tried to keep my doubts, my weariness, to myself; surely I had told nobody.\u201d A view eastwards along the chancel of the church at the Cistercian monastery of Rievaulx Abbey in the Yorkshire Wolds. The monastery was founded in the 12th century and abandoned during the Dissolution of the Monasteries. I had just been introduced to Matthew Shardlake when he is summoned to the office of Lord Thomas Cromwell. Shardlake has become disillusioned about working for Cromwell. It is arduous work, requiring travel hither and yon, and mentally draining to see the look of fear and barely suppressed loathing that people feel for a representative of Cromwell. To make matters worse the infirmity he was born with, a hunchback, continues to give him more and more trouble with each passing day. Already weary in soul and feeling the physical toil of the past few years the last thing Shardlake wants to do is to be dispatched to the St. Donatus monastery at Scarnsea. But there has been a murder and not just any murder, but the murder of a Cromwell representative while he was investigating the monastery for improprieties. The killer was sending a very clear message to Cromwell by beheading his agent. Cromwell\u2019s own head is lucky to still be setting squarely on his shoulders after he became such an ardent ally of the recently beheaded Anne Boleyn. To prove his loyalty to Henry the 8th Cromwell is fervently enforcing the recent First Act of Succession (1536) dissolving as many monasteries as possible, within the confines of the new law. He is confiscating their lands and gold baubles to help bolster the King\u2019s treasury. St. Donatus is one of the larger monasteries all of whom hope to survive the purge. Although anybody in the know realizes that Henry will not be happy with just a few when he can pass a law, Second Act of Succession (1539) , that will bring them all down. Right now it is 1537 and Shardlake can offer some assurances to the abbot that the monastery can still be saved. Haughmond Abbey. The extensive remains of an Augustinian abbey, including its abbots' quarters, refectory and cloister. This was a time of uneasy alliances with Catholics swearing allegiance to the new church not because they necessary believed, but because they wished to keep their property and to keep their heads attached to the rest of their bodies. People used the new laws to settle old grievances, turning their enemies in for Catholic devotion that reminds me of neighbors turning on neighbors in Germany under the Third Reich. Protestants killing Catholics. Catholics killing Protestants. Good lord, all so a king can bed a particularly crafty young lady who would settle for nothing less than the crown on her head before she ministered to the Kingly \u201ccrown\u201d. Anne Boleyn was a true Eve, nearly bringing a kingdom down with her feminine wiles and her \u201cprogressive\u201d religious ideas. Think of the lives that would have been saved if Henry the 8th in one of his many mishaps had crushed his balls or better yet sliced his dinger off. Are we to believe that his main objective in having so many wives was to procreate an heir? Maybe so, but truly in the course of doing so it is hard not to see him as bordering on sexual conquesting lunacy. I know he was worried about starting a war with Spain and France, but wouldn\u2019t this all have been easier and saved a lot of hanging, beheading, burnings etc. if only Catherine of Aragon had say had an accident in the bath or had a bit of loose stone masonry fall on her head? Not that I wish ill on Catherine. She seems to be the one purity in this whole sordid mess, but would thousands of lives been spared? Shardlake with his rather comely (male) assistant in tow arrives at the monastery to discover that there are more problems than just one murdered man. Needless to say everyone is on edge knowing that the King\u2019s representative needs very little cause to close the monastery and confiscate their lands. Shardlake finds a nest of barely repentant monks still clinging to their idols and traditions. It is too much to expect that people can just flip a switch and do away with beliefs that have sustained them their whole lives. The ruins of Glastonbury Abbey dissolved in 1539, following the execution of the Abbot on charges of treason. A monk is poisoned...what did he know or what did he see? An old murder comes to light of a young girl who once worked at the monastery. Before long Shardlake wonders if he is chasing one murderer or three? He soon discovers that the monastery keeps two sets of books and the missing blue book may be the very thing he needs to find to unmask at least one of the killers. To make things even more irritating for him he finds himself competing with his young assistant for the affections of a young lass who works in the infirmary of the monastery. Shardlake is very dismissive of Catholicism, a true believer in the Reformation, but at the same time he is sickened by the lives that are being ruined needlessly. He certainly feels the pressure to not only uncover the true murderers, but also to reach solutions that will put him back in the good graces of Cromwell. It is a time when people must deny their true nature whether they are homosexual, Anabaptist, or harboring affection for the Pope of Rome. It is always tragic when people who have much more in common than they have in disagreement are killing each other over the whims of Kings. I will definitely be reading more in this series. I\u2019ve heard that the books just keep getting better and better. ...more Even though I read a lot of history, I've never been a fan of historical fiction and so when one of the book clubs to which I belong picked this novel as a monthly read, I approached it with some trepidation. For the most part, though, I was pleasantly surprised and I enjoyed the book more than I expected to. Dissolution is set in England and the action takes place over a couple of extremely cold and snowy weeks in 1537. This is shortly after King Henry VIII has broken with the Catholic church an Even though I read a lot of history, I've never been a fan of historical fiction and so when one of the book clubs to which I belong picked this novel as a monthly read, I approached it with some trepidation. For the most part, though, I was pleasantly surprised and I enjoyed the book more than I expected to. Dissolution is set in England and the action takes place over a couple of extremely cold and snowy weeks in 1537. This is shortly after King Henry VIII has broken with the Catholic church and created the Church of England, with himself as the head of the church. At this point, of course, religious freedom is only a dim, distant dream, and all English people are required by law to follow Henry into the new Anglican church, whether they like it or not. Many of them don't like it. They remain true to the Catholic church and continue to give their religious allegiance to the Pope. Many of these people will be persecuted for their beliefs and not a few will be executed. In many respects, these are not the sunniest of times. Once establishing himself as head of the English church, Henry conveniently grants himself a divorce from his wife, Catherine of Aragon, so that he can marry Ann Boleyn. The Pope had refused to grant Henry an annulment of his marriage to Catherine and this precipitated the break between Henry and the Pope. Henry also moves expeditiously to confiscate property in England that had belonged to the Catholic church. Most important, there were many Catholic monasteries in England that controlled vast amounts of valuable land. Henry began the process of dissolving the monasteries (the Dissolution) and appropriating their wealth. His principal ally in this effort was his vicar general, Thomas Cromwell, who was much feared by Henry's opponents. Cromwell sends a commissioner to begin the process of dissolving the monastery of Scarnsea on the southern coast of England, but shortly after arriving at Scarnsea the commissioner is murdered. Cromwell now sends one of his prot\u00e9g\u00e9s, a lawyer named Matthew Shardlake to investigate the murder and to conclude the dissolution of the monastery. Shardlake is a brilliant lawyer and is devoted to the reform of the church. He is also a hunchback who has always been self-conscious and socially ostracized to some extent because of his handicap. Shardlake is accompanied by a handsome young assistant named Mark Poer, and the two make their way through the snow to Scarnsea to find a tangled web of murder and intrigue along with financial and sexual irregularities. More murders will follow their arrival and it's clear that Shardlake and his young assistant are also in grave danger every moment that they remain in the monastery. The burning question is whether or not Matthew Shardlake can accomplish his mission before both he and Mark become victims themselves of the evil that seems to infuse Scarnsea. What I enjoyed most about this book was the atmosphere that Sansom creates. He vividly recreates the turmoil of the period along with the sights, sounds and smells of the era. The reader feels the chill in his or her own bones as the characters struggle to stay warm in the middle of the freezing cold weather. This historical detail is engrossing and the story is a compelling one. If I have a complaint about the book, it's that about halfway through the book, the story started to drag a bit. Shardlake spends an awful lot of time wandering through the snow from one part of the monastery to another in order to interview people and it starts to get a bit repetitious. I found myself encouraging Shadlake to pick up the pace a bit. This is a book that runs 385 pages which, in my estimation, would have been much better at about 325 pages. But that is a relatively small complaint, and this is a book that should appeal to anyone who enjoys historical mysteries. 3.5 stars for me, rounded up to four. ...more 5.0 stars. This story grabbed me from the very first page and kept me engaged throughout the entire book. I do not read as much historical/crime fiction as I do science fiction/fantasy but this book might cause that to change given how much I enjoyed this. I am a bit if a history buff and I was drawn to this story because it is set during the English Reformation, a period I was interested to learn more about. The main character, Matthew Shardlake, is a hunchback, English lawyer working for Thoma 5.0 stars. This story grabbed me from the very first page and kept me engaged throughout the entire book. I do not read as much historical/crime fiction as I do science fiction/fantasy but this book might cause that to change given how much I enjoyed this. I am a bit if a history buff and I was drawn to this story because it is set during the English Reformation, a period I was interested to learn more about. The main character, Matthew Shardlake, is a hunchback, English lawyer working for Thomas Cromwell (the architect of the English Reformation). Shardlake is sent to a Benedictine monastery to investigate the brutal murder of one of Cromwell's men. However, Shardlake's true mission is to arrange for the voluntary surrender of the monastery to the English crown.The book was very well written, with a complex, well structured plot and very memorable characters. This is a great story filled with intrigue, political machinations and realpolitik being conducted under the guise of religion. Highly Recommended!!!! ...more What can I say. Really exciting, really atmospheric and the novel for which the phrase 'page turner' was created. Its the first in a series, in which i shall most definitely be heavily indulging, revolving around a well drawn character called Matthew Shardlake who, when the novel begins, is an ardent if gentle reformer working for Thomas Cromwell just as, with the death of Jane Seymour, Henry VIII is set free to vomit his horrible nastiness over a few more women. Shardlake, a lawyer who struggles What can I say. Really exciting, really atmospheric and the novel for which the phrase 'page turner' was created. Its the first in a series, in which i shall most definitely be heavily indulging, revolving around a well drawn character called Matthew Shardlake who, when the novel begins, is an ardent if gentle reformer working for Thomas Cromwell just as, with the death of Jane Seymour, Henry VIII is set free to vomit his horrible nastiness over a few more women. Shardlake, a lawyer who struggles with the disadvantage of suffering from a hunchback, is sent to a Monastery on the East Coast at Scarnsea to investigate the brutal murder of one of Cromwell's men who had been sent there so as to speed up the process of dissolution. In the latter part of the 1530's Cromwell had taken on the role of destroying the monastic tradition of England couching it in terms of cleansing the realm of the filth of papist domination. This Shardlake applauds and spends the first part of his stay at St Donatus monastery sneering and judging and belittling. The monastic community is painted as a community almost without saving grace. Overly worldy and lazy, riven by division and hate and all of the monks bar the black moorish convert Brother Guy are represented as gross hypocrites. Initially this ridiculous sweeping generalization, dismissing every monk as a fatuous idiot or hypocrite, annoyed and jarred as i read but of course the whole point is that the novel is in the first person. We walk in Matthew's world, caught up in his bigotry and judgements, we see the protestant reform and its leaders through his idealized and naive eyes and the catholicism is tarnished by his experiences, including his cruel rejection, because of his deformity, when he sought priesthood as a lad. Gradually, though he does not come to think particularly highly of catholicism, he does begin to realize that perhaps it is not the monstrous fetid swamp he believed and nor is the longed for Protestant Commonwealth just around the corner. He sees more clearly and thus more sadly. The story itself is wonderfully exciting with marvelous hiss/boo villains, a handsome manservant and long-suffering servant girl who provide the opening for ramblings on love and loss as the snobbery of social division in which even Shardlake partakes threatens there future, a mad tortured monk who might not be as mad as Shardlake first thinks and all sorts of links to the court of Henry and his shadowy henchmen as well as suspects galore for the brutal beheading. The story is cleverly written in that Sansom does not make Shardlake anything other than a man of his time. He is not made to think and speak in a way that no man of his time would( Please note writers of the british farcical courtroom drama 'Garrow's Law' which makes our hero some 21st Century reformer thinking and speaking and behaving in a way that is about 200 years ahead of his time.) This is not what Sansom has done in the character of Matthew. He is zealous for the reform, though not a vicious zealot, but his hatreds and prejudices are similar to those of his peers if not expressed with such brutal cruelty as was perhaps the norm. His disability perhaps makes him less likely to condemn the outsider but he is not made to look at the 1530's as an enlightened man of the 2000's. Homosexuality is seen as nothing but foul and perverse and beyond the pale, catholics and anabaptists are to be scorned and loathed and, at the beginning of the book at least, your betters, those above you in society, are to be trusted and believed. God has given you a position and you should not be anything but content with that. I found the world he painted pulsed with life, the brutality and degradation, the despair and fear, the struggles and unrest all whirled round in a great turmoil of a society being changed irrevocably. The reign of Henry resulted in far more changes than just a wife or two and this rumbling underground, gradually heading towards the surface is well captured by the prose and plot of 'Dissolution'. Clever ...more I enjoyed reading this historical fiction book, recommended by GR friend Ingrid. The book is set in 1537 England. Henry VIII has left the Catholic church and the country is divided between those faithful to the new Church of England, with Henry VIII as its head, and the Catholic church. A royal commissioner is murdered in the monastery of Scarnsea on the southeast coast of England. Thomas Cromwell, Henry's vicar general, calls a lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, to his office and tells him to go to the I enjoyed reading this historical fiction book, recommended by GR friend Ingrid. The book is set in 1537 England. Henry VIII has left the Catholic church and the country is divided between those faithful to the new Church of England, with Henry VIII as its head, and the Catholic church. A royal commissioner is murdered in the monastery of Scarnsea on the southeast coast of England. Thomas Cromwell, Henry's vicar general, calls a lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, to his office and tells him to go to the monastery, find the murderer and persuade the monastery to surrender its property to the king. Shardlake and his assistant Mark Poer go the monastery and investigate. More murders happen and the ending was a surprise to me. I thought that the author wrote a very evocative novel, painting a vivid picture of Tudor England, with all its cruelties and maneuverings by various players jockeying for power and money. Two quotes-- Catholic Church holy relics: \"They say that there are two headed dragons in the Indies. Well here we have two headed saints\" {Cromwell showing Shardlake two different skulls of the same saint} Shardlake, dealing with an informer: \"I was shaking like an aspen leaf from head to foot.\" I give this library book a solid 4 out 5 stars. I recommend it to historical fiction fans. ...more Set during the Dissolution of the Monasteries under Henry VIII, this novel brings this episode in history to life through the character Matthew Shardlake. He is developed throughout the story, creating a multi-faceted, compelling protagonist. Passers by only see Shardlake as a cripple, but the reader sees his pride, insecurities, longing for companionship, and devotion to a cause that he believes is sincere. Through the example of the Monastery of St. Donatus at Scarnsea, we are shown first hand Set during the Dissolution of the Monasteries under Henry VIII, this novel brings this episode in history to life through the character Matthew Shardlake. He is developed throughout the story, creating a multi-faceted, compelling protagonist. Passers by only see Shardlake as a cripple, but the reader sees his pride, insecurities, longing for companionship, and devotion to a cause that he believes is sincere. Through the example of the Monastery of St. Donatus at Scarnsea, we are shown first hand what it was like for the monks at this time to be at the mercy of the king. First they were ordered to change centuries old rituals to fit the reformist trend, only to eventually lose their entire way of life. Putting it on this personal level and seeing what happens to each of the characters Sansom creates, the reader can vividly imagine this period of history. The author's depiction of Tudor times is second to none. Daily living and all its struggles are injected into this story without becoming info-dumps or narrations of boring detail. Cromwell makes a couple of brief appearances, and he is realistically written, if not as sympathetically as in Mantel's novels. I appreciated the author's ability to give each of his characters an active faith that did not truly fit into any category that the government of the time was attempting to create. Shardlake proclaims himself an ardent reformer, until he is struck with the realization that the reforms are more about redistribution of wealth than true worship. Though the setting was a religious house and each person revealed their thoughts on God, the book never overdoes the Christian theme or becomes preachy. And then there are the murders! I loved this book for the great character development and visualization of Tudor England, but it is also a great mystery. Shardlake is sent to Scarnsea to investigate the murder of his fellow commissioner and discovers a much more tangled web than he expected. A must read for anyone interested in this period of history. ...more Looking at the reviews here, it seems that this book is getting hammered because it cries out to be compared with other powerhouses of books. Set in the 1500s of Henry VIII, it clearly bears parallels with Wolf Hall which is set two wives earlier. It has to be said that it lacks the beauty of the language of that novel or its subtle, multilayered realistic characterisation. Mantell's Cromwell is a far more engaging and convincing narrator than Sansom's Shardlake. Similarly, set in an isolated mon Looking at the reviews here, it seems that this book is getting hammered because it cries out to be compared with other powerhouses of books. Set in the 1500s of Henry VIII, it clearly bears parallels with Wolf Hall which is set two wives earlier. It has to be said that it lacks the beauty of the language of that novel or its subtle, multilayered realistic characterisation. Mantell's Cromwell is a far more engaging and convincing narrator than Sansom's Shardlake. Similarly, set in an isolated monastery, narrated by an articulate first person narrator who is investigating a murder, comparisons with Name of the Rose are easy to make. I may be mistaken, but I wonder whether the reference to the (fake) lost Comedy of Aristotle in Scarnsea's library was a deliberate echo (or Eco?) of Name of the Rose.Again, however, Dissolution comes off worse in the comparison: it lacks the intensely almost arcanely intellectualism of Eco, who I love hugely; the language comes across as being broadly modern with the occasional nod towards the period whereas Eco's writing has always struck me an amazingly authentic. This said, look at the writers with whom Sansom is being compared: I cannot think of any writer who would come off better in such a contest! It is the fact of the parallels that almost demand the comparisons to be made which is the problem, not the writing or the plotting itself. Sansom has so far succeeded in engaging and entertaining me, creating a universe which feels reasonably authentic. That seems to me to be worth a good 4 stars... ...more 'The Bible says God made man in his image but I think we make and remake him, in whatever image happens to suit our shifting needs.' This is a complex time in Tudor history, brilliantly brought to life by CJ Sansom. The status quo in Britain at the time this story is told is an uneasy one. Thomas Cromwell has been commissioned by Henry VIII to dissolve the monasteries. Papists are hunted down. As one character says' there is nowhere safe in the world, no thing certain.' Matthew Shardlake , a hunch 'The Bible says God made man in his image but I think we make and remake him, in whatever image happens to suit our shifting needs.' This is a complex time in Tudor history, brilliantly brought to life by CJ Sansom. The status quo in Britain at the time this story is told is an uneasy one. Thomas Cromwell has been commissioned by Henry VIII to dissolve the monasteries. Papists are hunted down. As one character says' there is nowhere safe in the world, no thing certain.' Matthew Shardlake , a hunchbacked lawyer from London is charged with the investigation of one of the Kings commissioner's murder while auditing a monastery. He is a good man and well developed intelligent character. He knows he is not a 'catch' for any woman because of his disability and yet it is painful to read of his hopes of genuine feelings between himself and a serving girl, and also to see his disillusionment with Reformers' dishonesty and corruption. I loved this book more when I was more of a historical fictionista but since I have been seduced by historical fantasy, I am slightly less keen. Still a really enjoyable and quality book and I will probably over time reread the others in the series. It seems a long time since the last volume by CJ Sansom and I think my urge to re read this came from my longing for a continuation of Matthew Shardlakes adventures. ...more Now that is how historical fiction should be written, plenty of fact, some great fictional characters and a really good story. The fact that this is also a mystery and a page turner made the deal for me. This was a really good read and I will be seeking out the rest of the series very soon. How men fear the chaos of the world, I thought, and the yawning eternity hereafter. So we build patterns to explain its terrible mysteries and reassure ourselves we are safe in this world and beyond. There was a germ of something remarkable in this genre novel. Double cursed with the blights of \"historical\" and \"detective\" baggage, Dissolution betrays yet another misfortune as it flies headlong into the pillars of its territory: The Name of the Rose meets Man For All Seasons as remixed by DJ Spoo How men fear the chaos of the world, I thought, and the yawning eternity hereafter. So we build patterns to explain its terrible mysteries and reassure ourselves we are safe in this world and beyond. There was a germ of something remarkable in this genre novel. Double cursed with the blights of \"historical\" and \"detective\" baggage, Dissolution betrays yet another misfortune as it flies headlong into the pillars of its territory: The Name of the Rose meets Man For All Seasons as remixed by DJ Spooky and Iain Sinclair. Despite almost audible machinations of the plot, there is a palpable process of character development. I was initially put off by protagonist Shardake but eventually felt his construction needed both his deformity and the arrogance of station as Commissioner, how else would he come to terms with the Terror from the Throne? There is a sober meditation on alienation within these pages. Are there surges of anachorism? Tempering those escapes remains a challeneg but for the most alterof wardens. Sansom does allow a iew of the English Reformation in the making. The destruction of the monasteries strikes the modern reader as being eternally cynical but what isn't in the sidelong view of Progress? ...more A brilliant mystery set in Tudor England (1537-1538), the turbulent period after the execution of Anne Boleyn. Thomas Cromwell is pursuing the dissolution of monasteries; Shardlake, a hunchback, is a protestant commissioner sent by Cromwell to St. Donatus monastery at Scarnsea where the murder of his predecessor has taken place. There are number of monks among the suspects and Shardlake is convinced that the killer is still at the monastery. This book was better that I expected. There are enough A brilliant mystery set in Tudor England (1537-1538), the turbulent period after the execution of Anne Boleyn. Thomas Cromwell is pursuing the dissolution of monasteries; Shardlake, a hunchback, is a protestant commissioner sent by Cromwell to St. Donatus monastery at Scarnsea where the murder of his predecessor has taken place. There are number of monks among the suspects and Shardlake is convinced that the killer is still at the monastery. This book was better that I expected. There are enough twists and turns in the plot to keep the mystery alive and the reader engaged until the end. Sansom describes the religious and political aspects of the Reformation well without becoming pedantic. St.Donatus monastery at Scarnsea is a fictional place but the book contains some interesting and accurate references to historical events of the period (such as the freezing of the River Thames in 1536 and the demolition of Lewes Priory later in 1537). I liked the character of Shardlake quite a lot and I will be certainly continue the series. ...more I don't often read books set during this period of English history. I don't know why. But I am glad that I have started. Well, perhaps I should say, that I am glad that I have discovered CJ Sansom because he really brought Henry Tudor's England alive for me. It is that which has made me glad to start reading books of this era. As a crime thriller, this book was a little dull. Hence the 4 stars and not 5 stars. I didn't enjoy it so much for the crime solving. It was Sansom's descriptions of Englan I don't often read books set during this period of English history. I don't know why. But I am glad that I have started. Well, perhaps I should say, that I am glad that I have discovered CJ Sansom because he really brought Henry Tudor's England alive for me. It is that which has made me glad to start reading books of this era. As a crime thriller, this book was a little dull. Hence the 4 stars and not 5 stars. I didn't enjoy it so much for the crime solving. It was Sansom's descriptions of England during the Dissolution that held my interest and kept me coming back to this book time and again, eager to absorb it. I had worked out the killer pretty early on and was not disappointed when I found out I was right. It was who I wanted it to be. Thankyou, Mr Sansom. The twists, however, turn inside and out during the closing chapters and the story is not as open and shut as I had assumed. As an historical crime thriller, Dissolution was subtle but enjoyable and I look forward to reading the second book in the series sometime soon. ...more I loved this story. I haven't read too many historical mysteries but I can't imagine them getting much better than this. Matthew Shardlake is such a terrific main character that I find myself wanting to follow him around no matter what he's doing. Not quite as smart as Sherlock Holmes but a million times more likeable. Plus the fact that he is a hunchback just seems to make him all the more appealing. And I didn't even mention the writing and the mystery itself, both of which are excellent. Good but not as good as I expected. History was very interesting and in general the characters were quite good. The plot itself was a bit lackluster for me and the mystery wasn't overly gripping . I really wanted to like this book more. Set in Tudor times, just after the death of Jane Seymour, and with the events surrounding Anne Boleyn's rise, fall and beheading still in the recent past. It's about the 'dissolution' of the monasteries as England turns from being a Catholic state to one that is/was (mostly) reformist or Protestant. It's an historical era I know next to nothing about and sounded (to mine ears) very promising. Matthew Shardlake is a hunchback (interesting), from a poor or co I really wanted to like this book more. Set in Tudor times, just after the death of Jane Seymour, and with the events surrounding Anne Boleyn's rise, fall and beheading still in the recent past. It's about the 'dissolution' of the monasteries as England turns from being a Catholic state to one that is/was (mostly) reformist or Protestant. It's an historical era I know next to nothing about and sounded (to mine ears) very promising. Matthew Shardlake is a hunchback (interesting), from a poor or common background (also interesting), yet who found a way to educate himself and become a lawyer. (Very interesting and unique and unusual for the time period.) He's also one of Thomas Cromwell's 'commissioners.' (Commissioners carried out Cromwell's orders, including the 'dissolution' or seizure of the Catholic monasteries which still existed in the realm. Even though the brothers were forbidden to carry out 'Papist' services, etc., many continued to go on. Smaller religious 'houses' were simply seized and their assets taken over by the crown. Taking the larger houses, however, was a little thornier and caused a rebellion in the north. Therefore, it was easier to find the monks or abbot, or others associated with a monastery to be guilty of some crime. For example, pederasty, or corruption, or mismanagement of monastery funds. In this way the seizure of the house and all its 'spoils' would go a little smoother. Commissioners facilitated this process) Commissioner Shardlake is sent to the monastery at Scarnsea to do just this, as well as investigate the murder of his predecessor, Commissioner Singleton. (Yes, there's been a murder at the monastery; in fact he was found in the kitchen, beheaded!) Shardlake also uncovers sins and secrets galore being kept by various brothers. (There's gluttony and land-gouging and lusting after women, and boys, etc. etc.) The time period, the environment, the setting are all meticulously presented with just a few moments here and there that might be a tad anachronistic. I can overlook that though, as for some words or phrases the modern equivalent is more accurate. It's not overdone, and other reviewers/critics have pointed out where this happens. This didn't take away the story for me and I enjoyed it thoroughly until the last 50 pages or so. That's where everything was too 'neatly' tied up and considering the time period, things should have been a bit messier. Or a lot messier. And def., a lot bloodier. Three stars. ...more First published in 2003, this is the first novel in the Matthew Shardlake series, and introduces us to our unlikely hero; lovelorn, hunchbacked, a reformist lawyer who begins the book as utterly loyal to Cromwell\u2019s ideals and ends it plagued with doubts about his role and mission. Shardlake is sent by Cromwell to the Monastery of St Donatus the Ascendant at Scarnsea, Sussex. It is 1537 and the dissolution of the monasteries is underway. Cromwell had sent Commissioner Robin Singleton there with l First published in 2003, this is the first novel in the Matthew Shardlake series, and introduces us to our unlikely hero; lovelorn, hunchbacked, a reformist lawyer who begins the book as utterly loyal to Cromwell\u2019s ideals and ends it plagued with doubts about his role and mission. Shardlake is sent by Cromwell to the Monastery of St Donatus the Ascendant at Scarnsea, Sussex. It is 1537 and the dissolution of the monasteries is underway. Cromwell had sent Commissioner Robin Singleton there with lawyer, Lawrence Goodhaps. Now Singleton has been found murdered and Shardlake is sent to investigate. He is accompanied by Mark Poer, a young man he had taken into his household as a family obligation. Mark has been in disgrace for his dalliance with a knight\u2019s daughter and Shardlake hopes that success in their mission will plead Poer\u2019s case for rehabilitation, while putting him in Cromwell\u2019s favour. However, once they arrive they find Goodhaps terrified and the monks suspicious and concerned about their future. Snow begins to fall, making travel difficult, and the monastery is isolated, with dangerous marshland outside the gates and the possibility of smugglers. Before long, Shardlake is embroiled in an investigation of murder, which reaches back to the trial and beheading of Ann Boleyn \u2013 an event which Shardlake attended on Cromwell\u2019s orders. Although this is the first novel in the series, and there are bumps along the way, the character of Shardlake himself already seems like an old friend. The setting \u2013 the isolated monastery with a fixed group of suspects\u2013 works very well. Mark Poer is not the greatest foil to Shardlake, but the novel introduces other characters who appear in later books. Overall, even re-reading this, it is an assured and excellent debut to a series which has to be my favourite historical mystery series in print. The next books in the series are: Dark Fire, Sovereign, Revelation, Heartstone, with Lamentation due out in 2014. A new Shardlake is an event but, until then, it is wonderful to revisit these books and rediscover how great they are. ...more I was very disappointed in this book as it came highly recommended by friends; four of whom I had known since I was a teenager. In fact I trusted their judgement so much, I purchased five books from this series at the same time. I should have loved this book as it's about the Tudor period, which has always fascinated me; there were so many intrigues going on and one never knew who was going to end up in the Tower, and the central character Matthew Shardlake, the hunchback lawyer, was very interes I was very disappointed in this book as it came highly recommended by friends; four of whom I had known since I was a teenager. In fact I trusted their judgement so much, I purchased five books from this series at the same time. I should have loved this book as it's about the Tudor period, which has always fascinated me; there were so many intrigues going on and one never knew who was going to end up in the Tower, and the central character Matthew Shardlake, the hunchback lawyer, was very interesting. It is also a brilliant social document of the time (16th century) and with a good story at the Monastery of Scarnsea where Robin Singleton is found beheaded. What a ghastly way to die was my immediate thought and here I am living in France with its own rather bloody history. Now who did it, is what Shardlake has to find out. I just found this book to be so slow moving. In fact at one stage I thought it had actually \"died\". I kept on waiting for the action which took a while to arrive. Perhaps I may enjoy this more now? I read it 17 June 2011 (I have this annoying habit, well according to John, of dating every book when I buy it - well I like to know what I was reading at what time!). This book is supposedly marvellous and so I'll add it to my re-read shelf, perhaps earlier rather than later? ...more I was watching Craig Ferguson one night and he mentioned he was enjoing his CJ Sansom book. What could a night owl do but run to Amazaon books and look up the author? Who would not be excited about reading a book about a hunchback lawyer investigating murders at a monastery during the relgious upheaval times under King Henry VIII? It was entertaining that I sat up reading it instead of watching Craig Ferguson and I liked it so much that I have ordered the second one. I can't wait RE-VISIT VIA RADIO 4 Lawyer-detective Matthew Shardlake is sent to investigate a killing at a monastery. blurb - C J Sansom's bestselling Tudor crime novel, adapted for radio by Colin MacDonald. London, 1537. As he plots to bring down the Abbeys, Thomas Cromwell sends his trusted lawyer-detective, Matthew Shardlake, to investigate the murder of a King's Commissioner in a monastery on the south coast of Kent. Which of the terrified monks is the murderer - and can Shardlake catch him before he strik RE-VISIT VIA RADIO 4 Lawyer-detective Matthew Shardlake is sent to investigate a killing at a monastery. blurb - C J Sansom's bestselling Tudor crime novel, adapted for radio by Colin MacDonald. London, 1537. As he plots to bring down the Abbeys, Thomas Cromwell sends his trusted lawyer-detective, Matthew Shardlake, to investigate the murder of a King's Commissioner in a monastery on the south coast of Kent. Which of the terrified monks is the murderer - and can Shardlake catch him before he strikes again? Produced and directed by Kirsteen Cameron. Shardlake Jason Watkins Mark Joseph Arkley Mortimus Mark Bonnar Whelplay Sam Alexander Guy Vincent Ebrahim Alice Alex Rivers Edwig Patrick Brennan Gabriel Nick Underwood Jerome Sam Dale #9 - CJ Sansom's Tudor murder mystery. Shardlake makes a shocking discovery and rushes back to Scarnsea monastery, ready to confront the murderer. #10 - Abandoned by Mark, Shardlake must act alone to catch the killer of Orphan Stonegarden. Brilliant adaptation ===================================== It says that Brannagh is in negotiations with BBC to play Mathhew Shardlake: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_... Matthew is called in to work for Thomas Cromwell, that fearful and bi-polar side kick of Henry VIII. The assignment is to find a heinous, decapitating blackguard at Scarnsea. That's as much as you get from me in the way of plot but I will say Chancery is now perhaps my favorite horse character; his wisdom is just so understated by Sansom. 5* Dissolution 4* Dark Fire 5* Sovereign 5* Revalation 4* Heartstone 5* Winter in Madrid WL Dominion ...more I listened to the audiobook which was excellently narrated. However, as happens with me, I was sometimes not focusing when listening and missed some details. I am intrigued by this period of English history when Henry VIII went about dismantling the Catholic church. Dissolution, the title, refers to the closing of Catholic monasteries. While undoubtedly there was a great deal of corruption among the clergy, not all monks were guilty of wrong doing, and a lot of destruction occurred. I recall whe I listened to the audiobook which was excellently narrated. However, as happens with me, I was sometimes not focusing when listening and missed some details. I am intrigued by this period of English history when Henry VIII went about dismantling the Catholic church. Dissolution, the title, refers to the closing of Catholic monasteries. While undoubtedly there was a great deal of corruption among the clergy, not all monks were guilty of wrong doing, and a lot of destruction occurred. I recall when visiting the Bodleian Library in Oxford (one of the single best tours I've ever had of any historic site) I learned that illiterate English soldiers who were ordered to burn Catholic texts, destroyed just about everything they got their hands on. This reminds me of the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan in Afghanistan by the Taliban. I am disturbed by these losses to our global heritage in the name of religious zeal. Sharkland is an intelligent, and interesting man. Though I was unsure I agreed with his allegiance to the crown and Thomas Cromwell, he was an appealing personality. Sansom creates an intriguing mystery that I am sure will appeal to fans of historical mysteries. I enjoy contemporary mysteries with a strong sense of place more than this genre, but nevertheless don't regret 'reading' it. ...more Moj prvi Sansom i ljubav na prvu knjigu...Ok, ja sam i ina\u010de veliki ljubitelj povijesnih romana, krimi\u0107a, a i Tudora (zajedno sa Engleskom u to doba), a svega toga ima u Raskolu.. Nema ba\u0161 Tudora direktno, ali su negdje u pozadini jer sva ta doga\u0111anja opisana u romanu posljedica su odvajanja Engleske od katoli\u010dke crkve \u0161to je inicirao, naravno, Henrik VIII. No da se vratim na roman.. Pratimo Mathewa Shardlake-a i njegovu istragu ubojstava u jednom od engleskih samostana...(neposredno pred nestana Moj prvi Sansom i ljubav na prvu knjigu...Ok, ja sam i ina\u010de veliki ljubitelj povijesnih romana, krimi\u0107a, a i Tudora (zajedno sa Engleskom u to doba), a svega toga ima u Raskolu.. Nema ba\u0161 Tudora direktno, ali su negdje u pozadini jer sva ta doga\u0111anja opisana u romanu posljedica su odvajanja Engleske od katoli\u010dke crkve \u0161to je inicirao, naravno, Henrik VIII. No da se vratim na roman.. Pratimo Mathewa Shardlake-a i njegovu istragu ubojstava u jednom od engleskih samostana...(neposredno pred nestanak istih). Svi ti zanimljivi doga\u0111aji protkani su divnim opisima na\u010dina \u017eivota u samostanu, organizacije poslova, dru\u0161tvene situacije tog vremena i sl... Sansom sve to opisuje vrlo, rekla bih, elegantnim stilom pisanja. Ova se knjige ne mo\u017ee brzo \u010ditati..nekako se ba\u0161 treba posvetiti svakoj re\u010denici.. Podsje\u0107a na Ime Ru\u017ee... mo\u017eda je \u010dak i ne\u0161to napetija, iako, mogu\u0107e da sam ja bila premlada kada sam to \u010ditala.. (jedna od onih koje bi trebala ponoviti..). U svakom slu\u010daju ljubiteljima povijesnih romana i krimi\u0107a ovo \u0107e se sigurno svidjeti! Ja se ve\u0107 veselim sljede\u0107im Shardlakeovim avanturama.. ...more This is Tudor whodunit, set in the reign of Henry VIII. Shardlake is a commissionaire for Lord Cromwell and is asked to go to a monastery to investigate the murder of the last commissionaire who was there. He arrives with his assistant and sets about trying to find the murderer. Whilst he is there the body count starts to rise. He is suspicious of the motives behind why the monks are doing certain things, and he starts to get under the skin of the abbot and prior in the hope of flushing out the This is Tudor whodunit, set in the reign of Henry VIII. Shardlake is a commissionaire for Lord Cromwell and is asked to go to a monastery to investigate the murder of the last commissionaire who was there. He arrives with his assistant and sets about trying to find the murderer. Whilst he is there the body count starts to rise. He is suspicious of the motives behind why the monks are doing certain things, and he starts to get under the skin of the abbot and prior in the hope of flushing out the murderer. I really enjoyed this, I had been meaning to read it for a while. The main character Shardlake, is a careful man, who has suffered from a disfiguring disability. He is not scared to provoke a reaction from the monks with the aim of getting to the bottom of the murder. Shardlake learns some unpleasant truths about the power play that goes on between monarch and state and the individual players in that game. There was a good twist at the end, especially as I though I had worked out who I thought the murderer was. ...more A moderately enjoyable page-turner. Sansom's historical and legal background give authority to his research, but do nothing to lighten his prose, which never rises above the pedestrian, or to leaven his characters. Where Dissolution really falls down for me is that Sansom tries and fails to balance modern sensitivities with Tudor sensibilities\u2014rather than creating characters with authentic views of women, ethnic minorities, people with disabilities and homosexuals, Sansom describes people whose A moderately enjoyable page-turner. Sansom's historical and legal background give authority to his research, but do nothing to lighten his prose, which never rises above the pedestrian, or to leaven his characters. Where Dissolution really falls down for me is that Sansom tries and fails to balance modern sensitivities with Tudor sensibilities\u2014rather than creating characters with authentic views of women, ethnic minorities, people with disabilities and homosexuals, Sansom describes people whose views are too even-handed and have the ring of anachronism to them. Supposedly from an age characterised by religious and nationalistic fervour, the interest which Shardlake takes in Brother Guy's cultural background felt forced. I also felt that Sansom was trying so hard not to write derogatory stereotypes of women or other minorities that he fell into the trap of writing them as too-nice clich\u00e9s\u2014he can't quite imagine them as fully-rounded people with flaws and virtues, rather than a collection of certain traits, and it shows. ...more This is a great murder mystery set in the 16th century, during the religious reformation of Thomas Cromwell and Henry VIII. The setting is a monastery in Scarnsea, and Matthew Shardlake is a hunchbacked lawyer who serves as a commissioner of Cromwell to investigate the murder, and to hasten the dissolving of St. Donatus, as a precedent and warning to other religious orders as to what awaits them. One murder turns into 4, with twists and turns and red herrings all along the way. This book has it This is a great murder mystery set in the 16th century, during the religious reformation of Thomas Cromwell and Henry VIII. The setting is a monastery in Scarnsea, and Matthew Shardlake is a hunchbacked lawyer who serves as a commissioner of Cromwell to investigate the murder, and to hasten the dissolving of St. Donatus, as a precedent and warning to other religious orders as to what awaits them. One murder turns into 4, with twists and turns and red herrings all along the way. This book has it all: excellent writing, great plot, flawed, believable characters, and it even throws in discussion of organized religion and who it actually serves, as well. Add to that a well researched time period that I became interested in with Hilary Mantel's \"Wolf Hall\" and \"Bring up the Bodies\", and I'm hooked. Fortunately, there are more in this series, and I'll be adding them to my already unwieldy tbr shelves. Highly recommended to any mystery lover. ...more I won't miss this BBC dramatization: Winter, 1537, the South Kent Coast. Thomas Cromwell's trusted lawyer-detective, Matthew Shardlake, arrives at Scarnsea monastery with orders to investigate the brutal killing of a King's Commissioner, Robin Singleton. As he begins to meet the prime suspects, it soon becomes clear that the case will not be as simple to solve as he had hoped. I must agree with Hayes, the book is much better than this dramatization. As a work of historical fiction, this deserves six stars. As a mystery, it was very good, but it was overlong in places. The ending was wonderful, and unfortunately, kept me awake at 3am listening to this, rather than falling back to sleep. A sign of a great book though. All in all, I learned a lot from this book, and really enjoyed it. I'll definitely continue with the series. The author has a PhD in history and really knows his stuff. Lots of background, lots of period detail here, and if you As a work of historical fiction, this deserves six stars. As a mystery, it was very good, but it was overlong in places. The ending was wonderful, and unfortunately, kept me awake at 3am listening to this, rather than falling back to sleep. A sign of a great book though. All in all, I learned a lot from this book, and really enjoyed it. I'll definitely continue with the series. The author has a PhD in history and really knows his stuff. Lots of background, lots of period detail here, and if you have any interest in the Tudor period in particular, I highly recommend it. ...more Really good Historical Fiction set in Tudor England, and a murder mystery. What is there not to love. Great Book. I cant wait to read the rest in the series A determined scholar could write a very interesting study of the relation between mystery novels and theology. The inexorable, Calvinist feel of the movement from mystery to revelation, or the scholastic faith in reason and goodness of the detective\u2014all these things and more, suggest an eerie connectedness. Dissolution only strengthens the association. The story\u2019s detective-protagonist, Matthew Shardlake, is a hunchback lawyer working for Thomas Cromwell during the reign of Henry VIII. At the ope A determined scholar could write a very interesting study of the relation between mystery novels and theology. The inexorable, Calvinist feel of the movement from mystery to revelation, or the scholastic faith in reason and goodness of the detective\u2014all these things and more, suggest an eerie connectedness. Dissolution only strengthens the association. The story\u2019s detective-protagonist, Matthew Shardlake, is a hunchback lawyer working for Thomas Cromwell during the reign of Henry VIII. At the opening of the book he is called out to a monastery (one that is soon to be closed in line with the new reforms) to investigate the murder of one of Cromwell\u2019s commissioners who was sent out to investigate the monastery\u2019s financial dealings. Shardlake is a thoughtful but ambitious man increasingly self-aware of the role he is playing in England\u2019s reform. He is also painfully conscious of his deformity, which secludes him from others and sometimes makes him spiteful and cruel. It is this flawed heroic persona, however, that makes him such an astute investigator. Along with the murder-mystery, the novel also depicts the ideological struggle going on during reform era England. The way Sansom paints the differences between the old Catholic consciousness, a consciousness which under the pressure of Cromwell\u2019s policies is forced to hide itself and its allegiances, and the emergent Protestant consciousness, with its individualism and its essential ambiguity about the means of redemption\u2014setting these two mindsets against each other in a mercenary, cut-throat world of autocratic rule\u2014is particularly masterful and dramatic. The novel is absolutely top shelf; the writing, for a work of genre fiction, is first rate; the characters are all plausibly and finely drawn; and by the end it is not the unmasking of villains so much as the unmasking of one man\u2019s naivety about the world he lives in that is important. Can\u2019t recommend the book too highly. ...more I've been meaning to read this for ages. It's been tempting me more ever since I started volunteering at the tiny local library, so finally I picked it up -- and I'm glad. I think I needed it, something of a palate cleanser, something a bit different. It really was absorbing: I read it in great big chunks, and didn't want to put it down. It's in the same sort of tradition as Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael, I suppose: a murder mystery set in a particular political period, somewhat shaped by that p I've been meaning to read this for ages. It's been tempting me more ever since I started volunteering at the tiny local library, so finally I picked it up -- and I'm glad. I think I needed it, something of a palate cleanser, something a bit different. It really was absorbing: I read it in great big chunks, and didn't want to put it down. It's in the same sort of tradition as Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael, I suppose: a murder mystery set in a particular political period, somewhat shaped by that period. It doesn't matter that Cadfael and Matthew Shardlake have completely opposed occupations: there are plenty of other similarities, which I won't enumerate for fear of spoilers! I think the book inevitably calls up comparisons to Mantel's Wolf Hall (which I haven't yet read) and Eco's The Name of the Rose: to my mind, it holds its own reasonably well in the genre. I liked that the protagonist-narrator has a disability, and that he is capable of pity towards people not of his own beliefs. I was worried about how the gay priest would be treated -- obviously it would be a big anachronism for him to be out and proud, or for Shardlake to be completely understanding. But I think Sansom pulled that off without anachronism and without being insulting. All in all, it wasn't that surprising: something about the structure and pacing seem so obvious , thinking it over. I could practically predict to the second when someone else would die, when there'd be a revelation, etc. But I think it was, overall, pretty well handled, and well written. I guess the local library's borrowing stats are gonna be improved as I borrow this series... ...more<---A>C.J. Sansom</---A>", "Title": "Dissolution"},
