{"Comments": "I loved it! It is a well written story about a girl Melody, her family and friends. Its full of adventure, thrill and amusements.<---F> I especially liked Melody's character</---F>. I find her way of narration very interesting, the way she sees people and the world amused me quite a bit. She seems to have an opinion about everyone and everything. I found her funny and entertaining. The way she acted towards Flutter was also fun to read about. Regardless of what she said I still think they were friends. ;) The I loved it! It is a well written story about a girl Melody, her family and friends. Its full of adventure, thrill and amusements. I especially liked Melody's character. I find her way of narration very interesting, the way she sees people and the world amused me quite a bit. She seems to have an opinion about everyone and everything. I found her funny and entertaining. The way she acted towards Flutter was also fun to read about. Regardless of what she said I still think they were friends. ;) Then her father's stories led to an adventure which was unexpectedly amazing. I also liked the way things ended. I think this crazy book is definietly worth a read. At first I thought maybe its for kids/YA but now I believe that this book is for people of all ages. If you are looking for \"crazy\" fun read then this book is for you. P.S. I would like to thank the author for complementary copy of this book. :D ...more I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. - Okay, this was a really hard story for me\u2026 I seriously hated Melody. Well, at the start anyways. It's interesting too because while she insisted that she and Flutter weren't friends, they do end up spending quite a bit time together. The dynamic between them was quite strange, but not particularly bad . The thing with Melody though, was that she was the narrator and all the insulting observations she made about Flutter\u2026 They do I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. - Okay, this was a really hard story for me\u2026 I seriously hated Melody. Well, at the start anyways. It's interesting too because while she insisted that she and Flutter weren't friends, they do end up spending quite a bit time together. The dynamic between them was quite strange, but not particularly bad . The thing with Melody though, was that she was the narrator and all the insulting observations she made about Flutter\u2026 They don't fit Flutter. They fit her . A lot of the time, she was a very obnoxious and disdainful and just didn't work for me. Putting aside Melody's flaws, the story was\u2026 interesting. Nothing at all what I expected, but enjoyable none the less. I said at the start that I couldn't stand Melody,<---M> while that's true</---M>, I did like the narrative style. It was unique to say the least. She's very creative and imaginative and it gave the mundane observations of a typical narration some added sass. Granted, I did think she bordered on schizophrenic sometimes. Essentially, your enjoyment of the book will depend strongly on how you feel about Melody. Actually, all the characters and their bahaviour were strange. I'm really not sure if they're actually that off kilter or if it's due to Melody's skewed perspective. Regardless, I didn't really feel a connection with any of the characters. The book had a very distinctive voice thanks to Melody. Think of the cover. Now imagine that quirky psychedelic image as the defining feel of the story. In conclusion, there were aspects I really liked about the story and others I absolutely loathed. The book was very experimental and as such, not everything is neat and polished, but if you're looking for something out of the ordinary, this would be it. ...more Update 1/14/16 I first read this book over a year ago and the plot and characters (<---B>for the most part</---B>) still stick with me. What occurred to me lately is this book reminded me very much of a book from my childhood: A Wrinkle in Time by Madeleine L' Engle . Both novels have a fantastical nature with insights to modern life and coming to age, while both being distinct in their quirkiness. A good read and one I would recommend still. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I finally have time to sit down and write a review to t Update 1/14/16 I first read this book over a year ago and the plot and characters (for the most part) still stick with me. What occurred to me lately is this book reminded me very much of a book from my childhood: A Wrinkle in Time by Madeleine L' Engle . Both novels have a fantastical nature with insights to modern life and coming to age, while both being distinct in their quirkiness. A good read and one I would recommend still. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I finally have time to sit down and write a review to this book. First, I want to give a disclaimer: I was sent a free copy of this book (.pdf) in association with the E-Book Miner group. I graciously accepted the offer and agreed to write an honest review... and here it is. Witty. Fun. Weird. A great read. I really did not what to expect when I received this book. I initially voted for this book in the EBM BOTM because the description sounded interesting to me. I knew there was going to be plot twists and paranormal events/characters; however, I could have never guessed many of the twists and ultimately the ending. The story was... WEIRD! In a good way. It starts out as a story following two children who don't get along very well and transforms into an adventure of sorts - similar to adventures I always made up in my mind when playing outside as a child and using my imagination. This is a story a kid tells their parents and they laugh it off... \"oh the things children say.\" This story requires belief. Belief in something more than the normal drab of our everyday lives. That's what it did for me - transport me back to a simpler time when my imagination ran wild about that house next door and the monsters inside it. Each character is well constructed and explored. I particularly liked the dualistic personalities of Bernie and Lonnie and how they developed in the second half of the story when the character Plethanis enters (trying not to put spoilers in here). There was not a single character I did not enjoy, which I think is very rare in any book. I could accurately picture myself in their shoes (Melody, Flutter, Bernie, and Lonnie) and kept imagining what I would do if that was my reality. I guess anything is possible... Overall, I enjoyed the read and would give it 4/5 stars. It was light, fun, and kept me on my toes. I would recommend this to anyone who wants a light, silly read full of humor and wit. ...more I received a free electronic copy of this book from the author in exchange for an honest review. This book was fantastic! The diction was superb, I have never read a book meant for a young audience that has a plethora of perfect word choices. I am absolutely thrilled! The world and characters that Johnson creates are zany and quirky! Johnson takes a fresh, creative, and even hysterically comedic view of mythical, extraterrestrial, and paranormal life. The whole book is riddled with suspense, a l I received a free electronic copy of this book from the author in exchange for an honest review. This book was fantastic! The diction was superb, I have never read a book meant for a young audience that has a plethora of perfect word choices. I am absolutely thrilled! The world and characters that Johnson creates are zany and quirky! Johnson takes a fresh, creative, and even hysterically comedic view of mythical, extraterrestrial, and paranormal life. The whole book is riddled with suspense, a little tragedy here and there, a bit of horror and terror, as well as humor in the worst situations. I find this book more than satisfactory, it is astonishing! I found the interaction between adults and children very satisfying. It is very hard to find a book these days that has a parent-child relationship as amiable as this one. Overall this book is taking the new and turning it upside-down, putting it in a blender and taking out a unique approach to the world. I give this book five stars! ...more I received a complimentary copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. This book is quite quirky and crazy, in an awesome way. I was expecting a simple tale about Melody Jackson and how her life was going, and instead, I got a pleasant surprise. This title is full of different types of surprises and monsters, which I fully enjoyed. The subject matter was very much outside my normal reading material, and it was so entertaining, that I couldn't help but like it. The characters all have the I received a complimentary copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. This book is quite quirky and crazy, in an awesome way. I was expecting a simple tale about Melody Jackson and how her life was going, and instead, I got a pleasant surprise. This title is full of different types of surprises and monsters, which I fully enjoyed. The subject matter was very much outside my normal reading material, and it was so entertaining, that I couldn't help but like it. The characters all have their little nuances, which I also liked, especially Melody. I also appreciated that it reminded me of Salem's Lot, and that there was mention of Bigfoot and a race of aliens akin to the Anunnaki. I would recommend this title to anyone that likes books that are funny, or enjoys lighthearted books about aliens and monsters. ...more Melody Jackson & The House On Lafyette Street by BMB Johnson: What a delightful, & entertaining read this was. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is full of drama, mystery, humor, & suspense. And surprises. I don't think there was a chapter where there wasn't something unexpected happening. It definitely keeps you on your toes & involved w/what is happening. The characters were each rather quirky, & funny, I loved Melody & her parents, The book is a smooth read, & wil Melody Jackson & The House On Lafyette Street by BMB Johnson: What a delightful, & entertaining read this was. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is full of drama, mystery, humor, & suspense. And surprises. I don't think there was a chapter where there wasn't something unexpected happening. It definitely keeps you on your toes & involved w/what is happening. The characters were each rather quirky, & funny, I loved Melody & her parents, The book is a smooth read, & will go by quickly if you don't have to stop & do anything. BMB has written a story that will entertain persons of most ages. From middle school on up, maybe even some that are grade school age. If you like Science Fiction, & a good mystery sprinkled w/lots of surprises, & laughs, I definitely reccomend reading <+++>Melody Jackson and the House on Lafayette Street</+++>. You won't be disappointed. ...more Quirky, witty read The characters in this story are the types of characters young adults will truly love. They are funny, adventurous, and witty. The way he wrote in such detail about each character really help the story flow from page to page, by the end of the first chapter Melody and Flutter were my favorites Melody Jackson family and her tries to be your average day family admist of life's little adventures. But once her father starts telling stories, who knows what is going to go through Melo Quirky, witty read The characters in this story are the types of characters young adults will truly love. They are funny, adventurous, and witty. The way he wrote in such detail about each character really help the story flow from page to page, by the end of the first chapter Melody and Flutter were my favorites Melody Jackson family and her tries to be your average day family admist of life's little adventures. But once her father starts telling stories, who knows what is going to go through Melody's head. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a quirky, witty, young adult read. One that well keep you turning the pages to the end. Reviewed by Stacie at Double Decker Books ...more I received a free copy of this book for an honest review. I'll start by saying that this is not your \"usual\" book! I really disliked Melody...from the start so had a bit of a problem with wanting to continue reading the book...but I did. Melody came off as being selfish, self-absorbed and just plain obnoxious...at least to me, and I strongly dislike that sort of person be it in real life or my reading material. The book is unusual, quirky and actually once I got past my dislike of Melody quite g I received a free copy of this book for an honest review. I'll start by saying that this is not your \"usual\" book! I really disliked Melody...from the start so had a bit of a problem with wanting to continue reading the book...but I did. Melody came off as being selfish, self-absorbed and just plain obnoxious...at least to me, and I strongly dislike that sort of person be it in real life or my reading material. The book is unusual, quirky and actually once I got past my dislike of Melody quite good. I don't know where the author came up with the idea of the name Flutter, but I loved it...totally unique, like the book. ...more This is a gripping book with a great author who has sculpted a fantastic story that guides the reader on a fantastic adventure that leaves you wanting more. You become immersed in the story from the first chapter until the final page. Johnson's Melody Jackson novel is YA Sci Fi gold. Snappy dialog and a solid storyline make this book a winner. Melody and her unlikely friend/accomplice in this adventure are thrust together by meddling mothers. Most, if not all teens and tweens can relate to meddling parents who mean well but totally miss the mark. Flutter's mother and Melody's mom were connected via a community college class, and when Flutter's parents had to go out of town for the weekend Melody's mom saw a perfect (in her ey Johnson's Melody Jackson novel is YA Sci Fi gold. Snappy dialog and a solid storyline make this book a winner. Melody and her unlikely friend/accomplice in this adventure are thrust together by meddling mothers. Most, if not all teens and tweens can relate to meddling parents who mean well but totally miss the mark. Flutter's mother and Melody's mom were connected via a community college class, and when Flutter's parents had to go out of town for the weekend Melody's mom saw a perfect (in her eyes) opportunity for Melody to spend less time alone and maybe have a friend. Strange things began to happen on the way home from the art class the girls shared. Given the task of fundraising, Flutter was all in. Melody could care less about the whole thing until Flutter approaches the house next to the Jackson's where the creepy old man lives. This begins a chain of events that cannot be contained. The Jackson family is odd. Melody's mom puts on a happy face, hiding secrets and her dad is paranoid and at times a bit disconnected from reality. All of this hinges on something in their past that Melody doesn't know about, but soon will. Strangers begin to mill about the neighborhood, cats are missing and most disturbing, Melody's dad becomes zombie-like and begins on a mission known only to him. Out of fear and curiosity combined with the strong pull of love and family loyalty, Melody, her mom and Flutter are in for the duration with him. The girls were vastly different, but the tension between them drove the story well. With all of the supernatural happenings and fear of the unknown the girls learn to work together and yet still don't like each other very much. I don't see them willingly hanging out at the mall together after this ordeal is over. This is much more likely than these two girls becoming best friends. In addition to the meddling mothers, there are everyday events that occur during the craziness of the unknown that are relevant and allow the reader to relate to the characters, bringing them to life. Personally, I loved the off brand toys that line Melody's pristine room. This was a fun read. I'm looking forward to more of Johnson's books Copyright \u00a9 2014 Laura Hartman DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL CONNECTION: I have a material connection because I received a review copy that I can keep for consideration in preparing to write this content. I was not expected to return this item after my review. ...more **I received a copy of this book in exchange for my honest opinion. I would like to thank B.M.B Johnson for giving me the opportunity to read this novel!** A very interesting novel, for sure. I wasn't a huge fan of Melody at the beginning of the novel. It seemed like she thought she was better then everyone else, especially Flutter. But, I suppose that could be described as the awesome stage. The stage where one thinks that they are the greatest thing on plant Earth and how dare anyone else tell t **I received a copy of this book in exchange for my honest opinion. I would like to thank B.M.B Johnson for giving me the opportunity to read this novel!** A very interesting novel, for sure. I wasn't a huge fan of Melody at the beginning of the novel. It seemed like she thought she was better then everyone else, especially Flutter. But, I suppose that could be described as the awesome stage. The stage where one thinks that they are the greatest thing on plant Earth and how dare anyone else tell them any different. I went through that stage (thankfully, it wasn't that long). I hate that stage, so I guess that was why I wasn't a huge fan of Melody. But, as the book went on, I found that she got better and she didn't talk about how she was better because there were more important things going on. Bernie and Lonnie were supposed to be Melody' parents. I didn't really get the parent vibe from them. When they had the emotion moments and everyone was crying and hugging, I had to remind myself that they were parents and Melody was their daughter. I'll admit it, I didn't see the book going down the direction that it did. Johnson really surprised me with where the book went. I don't want to give spoilers so I just leave it like that. I was really happy that it went the way it did, though. The ending. I feel like the ending fit with the book and that it flowed nicely. I thought I wanted something bigger, a little bit more of a bang, but it turns out that the novel didn't need one. Definitely an interesting novel, I thought that this book had some really good surprises in store. I also felt like this is the kind of novel that a lot of age groups could read. If you are looking for something to read, check out \"<+++>Melody Jackson and the House on Lafayette Street</+++>\". ...more XXX Melody Jackson is the sort of girl you enjoy having around - mischievous and helpful and spice-of-life cute. Her Dad is a little bit nerdy and her Mom is pretty much a perfect mom. Add in the unwilling classmate sleepover and a weird neighbor of the generational family home and you have a stir-up that will keep you guessing. the characters in this novel are well rounded, empathetic and just eccentric enough to be lovable. The super-natural is just whoo-whoo enough to grab your attention with XXX Melody Jackson is the sort of girl you enjoy having around - mischievous and helpful and spice-of-life cute. Her Dad is a little bit nerdy and her Mom is pretty much a perfect mom. Add in the unwilling classmate sleepover and a weird neighbor of the generational family home and you have a stir-up that will keep you guessing. the characters in this novel are well rounded, empathetic and just eccentric enough to be lovable. The super-natural is just whoo-whoo enough to grab your attention without being frightening. This is an excellent book for both young readers and adults and I would recommend it to everyone I know. I have been sharing this story with a young friend who doesn't like to read, and hopefully we have made a convert out of her, as well. I got this book as an e-book and many long days at work without my home computer pointed out to me the downside of ebooks of less versatility than a Kindle. It is too late for Santa this year, but I will have one before long. We are a family of readers - everyone has their nose in a book most of the time, and I have a fondness for traditional books, but the ease of use and savings at the bookstore is making a Kindle convert out of me. Thank you, BMB Johnson, for giving me this opportunity to enjoy your novel and try out a new technology. You are on my list of authors to buy ASAP. Thanks. ...more I received this ARC book from the author through GoodReads First Reads in an electronic form. This story is a playful and imaginative romp through childhood and adulthood imaginations. <---A>B.M.B. Johnson</---A> (no relation to this reviewer) cleverly takes you through the emotions of making a new friend and the hurdles and rewards of that experience. The Melody and Flutter characters are clearly developed into those that seem to welcome you into their world as if you are one of the neighborhood children wh I received this ARC book from the author through GoodReads First Reads in an electronic form. This story is a playful and imaginative romp through childhood and adulthood imaginations. B.M.B. Johnson (no relation to this reviewer) cleverly takes you through the emotions of making a new friend and the hurdles and rewards of that experience. The Melody and Flutter characters are clearly developed into those that seem to welcome you into their world as if you are one of the neighborhood children who play together regularly. The parents are intelligent, playful, resourceful and engaging. The villains are menacing and dangerous without any overtly horror that, in a lot of young adult books is typically gratuitous and unnecessary. B.M.B. Johnson has the experience, skill and vocabulary to describe the scary scenes without the unnecessary horror other authors lazily rely on. He also uses this same experience, skill and vocabulary to remind me of my childhood adventures and imagination that I very much enjoyed re-visiting through the delightful characters in \"Melody Jackson and the House on Lafayette Street\". I recommend this book and the others in the series to all ages and anyone who wants to revisit their childhood for a romp in their imagination! ...more This is a brilliant read for everyone who likes fantasy/sci-fi/mild horror. The characters are humorously irritating and the interaction between all the characters often causes mayhem. I spent a fair while giggling my way through the book as some of the situations are quite funny. As the characters develop it is interesting to see role reversal come into play as the children sometimes became the ones to persuade the parents to deal with what needs doing. I loved how the characters grew as the st This is a brilliant read for everyone who likes fantasy/sci-fi/mild horror. The characters are humorously irritating and the interaction between all the characters often causes mayhem. I spent a fair while giggling my way through the book as some of the situations are quite funny. As the characters develop it is interesting to see role reversal come into play as the children sometimes became the ones to persuade the parents to deal with what needs doing. I loved how the characters grew as the story unfolds but never lose their bumbling appeal...it is this that gives so much humor to many of the situations. The ending, while being somewhat lame I feel, left me wondering if there is more yet to come. A read I would happily give to older children to read as well as older folks The author provided me with an e-book in return for an honest review ...more I received an ebook from the author in exchange for an honest review. I absolutely fell in love with this book from the very beginning. It was one of those books where i couldn't put it down. I just had to know what happened next. The story is about Melody and Flutter, two 12 year old's who try to find out what's really going on with the weird and creepy next door neighbor. The house next door had always been a little creepy, but when Melody's father begins telling stories of his own childhood, M I received an ebook from the author in exchange for an honest review. I absolutely fell in love with this book from the very beginning. It was one of those books where i couldn't put it down. I just had to know what happened next. The story is about Melody and Flutter, two 12 year old's who try to find out what's really going on with the weird and creepy next door neighbor. The house next door had always been a little creepy, but when Melody's father begins telling stories of his own childhood, Melody knew that this wasn\u2019t going to be your average summer vacation. Join Melody, her parents, and Flutter as they travel through a whirlwind of adventure, suspense and terror. Melody\u2019s view of the world will never quite be the same again. Melody Jackson and the House on Lafayette Street was very well written and extremely funny. I highly recommend this book to any one of all ages. ...more I received a free copy of this book for an honest review. This was a great book. When I first started reading the book, I thought it was more of a coming of age book, then when they approach the House on Lafayette Street, I thought it was going to be more of a thriller/ghost story. To have it end up being more sci-fi. The story didn't rely on one element. There were so many. There was the dynamic of the 2 girls, the quirky family, and to not give a way too much, all the other characters. I had a lo I received a free copy of this book for an honest review. This was a great book. When I first started reading the book, I thought it was more of a coming of age book, then when they approach the House on Lafayette Street, I thought it was going to be more of a thriller/ghost story. To have it end up being more sci-fi. The story didn't rely on one element. There were so many. There was the dynamic of the 2 girls, the quirky family, and to not give a way too much, all the other characters. I had a lot of fun reading this. ...more Quirky & just plain fun to read! I haven't read that many books geared toward younger teens and so am actually very happy to have received a copy from the author. I loved the characters, each had a distinct voice & unique personality. I enjoyed the quirky humor, the glimpses into the minds of the characters. (Smooth Pov Shifts) I think all readers could connect with the Jackson family although my favorite was Melody. I'd have loved to have a friend like her as a kid. :-) overall a wonder Quirky & just plain fun to read! I haven't read that many books geared toward younger teens and so am actually very happy to have received a copy from the author. I loved the characters, each had a distinct voice & unique personality. I enjoyed the quirky humor, the glimpses into the minds of the characters. (Smooth Pov Shifts) I think all readers could connect with the Jackson family although my favorite was Melody. I'd have loved to have a friend like her as a kid. :-) overall a wonderful read & I look forward to future books by this author. ...more Always on the look out for a good book for my young adult I was fortunate enough to find this book. A quick paced, witty and charming story of a family's encounter with an alien invasion. The author creates a wide variety of vivid characters who get thrown into an action packed adventure. The main character Melody is entertaining with her stream of consciousness and tendency to narrate events out load without realizing it. A fun read for your young adult that will keep them entertained to the ve Always on the look out for a good book for my young adult I was fortunate enough to find this book. A quick paced, witty and charming story of a family's encounter with an alien invasion. The author creates a wide variety of vivid characters who get thrown into an action packed adventure. The main character Melody is entertaining with her stream of consciousness and tendency to narrate events out load without realizing it. A fun read for your young adult that will keep them entertained to the very end. ...more AMAZING! I truly loved this book! Flutter was surprisingly my favorite character (because she was just like me!) Very well written! Great adventure, a thriller! I liked the fact that B.M.B Johnson gave Melody so much personality! I was generally amused while reading this book! Charming, smart and funny! If your looking for a clever read, this is it. I will be looking forward to the next adventure with Melody Jackson. I gave up at 29%. At 29% in to the story, I still have no idea how old Melody is. The story starts in an art class with talented people so I assumed high school, until Melody and her enemy Flutter are playing dolls together like it's normal. So, I assume elementary age. But she uses words that would seem strange in the mouth of a fifty year old. I had similar problems with her father, who is the most simpering disaster of a human I have seen no equal to in literature, except for perhaps Mr. Colli I gave up at 29%. At 29% in to the story, I still have no idea how old Melody is. The story starts in an art class with talented people so I assumed high school, until Melody and her enemy Flutter are playing dolls together like it's normal. So, I assume elementary age. But she uses words that would seem strange in the mouth of a fifty year old. I had similar problems with her father, who is the most simpering disaster of a human I have seen no equal to in literature, except for perhaps Mr. Collins from Pride and Prejudice. He literally threw up when trying to talk to the neighbor who has lived across the street from him since he was a child. I was also confused why Melody kept being cruel to Flutter while her internal dialogue said that Flutter was the cruel one -- and on one occasion she referred to Flutter as her friend. The scenes often change perspective from Melanie to her parents to her cat, making it difficult to see who is important, and even more difficult to parse what Melanie knows and what she does not. This leapfrog game of strange phrases, idiosyncrasies, and lengthy scenes of backstory were impossible to wade through. At 29%, I still have no idea what the main plot of the story is. ...more I really enjoyed reading this book and had to make an effort to put it down. The characters are believable and their interaction always interesting. I found Melody particularly funny - she is extremely intelligent and gets irritated by slow-thinking people, especially her dad. Then she has to contend with Flutter, a girl she doesn\u2019t like but has to share her home with for a weekend. Melody\u2019s mum assume they are best friends, just because she is friends with Flutter\u2019s mum, and all the while the g I really enjoyed reading this book and had to make an effort to put it down. The characters are believable and their interaction always interesting. I found Melody particularly funny - she is extremely intelligent and gets irritated by slow-thinking people, especially her dad. Then she has to contend with Flutter, a girl she doesn\u2019t like but has to share her home with for a weekend. Melody\u2019s mum assume they are best friends, just because she is friends with Flutter\u2019s mum, and all the while the girls loathe each other. Melody\u2019s family live next door to a spooky house with a decidedly weird owner who never seems to age. The day Flutter rings the doorbell to sell him some candy is the day the adventure begins. However improbable and far-fetched their lives become all of a sudden, I always had the feeling it was all perfectly plausible. Ghosts, aliens, bigfoots and even a vampire are just going about their daily business and it\u2019s perfectly fine. The story is well-written but leaves you wanting to know more. What did Bernie read in the book he was advised not to open? Where are Flutter\u2019s parents, and what exactly are they involved in? Why is Flutter so socially awkward? We need a sequel. Please\u2026? ...more This is a very fun story in a genre that I enjoyed a lot when I was about Melody's age, but this particular book is geared at least as much towards adults as it is towards tweens. Melody is a somewhat nerdy and eccentric homeschooled preteen (and as a homeschooled person myself I was very excited to finally find a homeschooled character who was not depicted as a religious nutcase), who stumbles into a zany adventure involving ghosts and cat-kidnapping aliens. Things look dark for our protagonist This is a very fun story in a genre that I enjoyed a lot when I was about Melody's age, but this particular book is geared at least as much towards adults as it is towards tweens. Melody is a somewhat nerdy and eccentric homeschooled preteen (and as a homeschooled person myself I was very excited to finally find a homeschooled character who was not depicted as a religious nutcase), who stumbles into a zany adventure involving ghosts and cat-kidnapping aliens. Things look dark for our protagonists and for all of humanity, but luckily for the planet, the brilliant Melody is on the case! Melody and her parents are amusing and appealing characters, and the writing is full of wit and zip. High realism this most certainly is not, but anyone looking for a lighthearted paranormal adventure suitable for adults and older children (I say \"older children\" only because some of the creepier moments would have scared me pretty badly as a small child) would probably enjoy the heck out of this book. ...more I received a free copy of this book, in exchange for an honest review. I have to say it's not my kind of story. From the start, I found it a little confusing and I struggled with some of the characters, especially Bernie, Melody's father. He so annoyed me! Perhaps that should be credited to the authors writing skill. I quite liked Melody, but I really liked Flutter and enjoyed the interaction between them. There is some great humour throughout the story, and I admit to the occasional chuckle. The w I received a free copy of this book, in exchange for an honest review. I have to say it's not my kind of story. From the start, I found it a little confusing and I struggled with some of the characters, especially Bernie, Melody's father. He so annoyed me! Perhaps that should be credited to the authors writing skill. I quite liked Melody, but I really liked Flutter and enjoyed the interaction between them. There is some great humour throughout the story, and I admit to the occasional chuckle. The writing is good and extremely descriptive; especially in regard to the Aliens. However, I have to say the formatting really needs looking at. Many times the text ended up in a long column on the right side of the page, with a blank space on the left. It remained like this for a few pages, and didn't make for comfortable reading. On the whole, I found this a rather strange and quirky story. However, I'm sure other readers will love it. It's certainly original! ...more I was given a free book for an honest review. A bizarre story about a tween named Melody and her \"friend\" Flutter. Crazy, disjointed adventures follow Melody's family and Flutter. Melody is rude and is mean to her friend Flutter, who she sees as a bully. Although it could be said Melody is quite the bully herself. I just could not like Melody. Hopefully she loses the b-factor as the series progresses. I did enjoy the ancient alien background. This book needs an editor badly. Overall, the book was d I was given a free book for an honest review. A bizarre story about a tween named Melody and her \"friend\" Flutter. Crazy, disjointed adventures follow Melody's family and Flutter. Melody is rude and is mean to her friend Flutter, who she sees as a bully. Although it could be said Melody is quite the bully herself. I just could not like Melody. Hopefully she loses the b-factor as the series progresses. I did enjoy the ancient alien background. This book needs an editor badly. Overall, the book was decent, if you can stand Melody's know-it-all comments. She's like Lisa Simpson, only meaner. I might take a look at the other books when they're released just to see what happens. ...more Melody Jackson is a young lady readers won't soon forget, her family is special also. Lonnie and Bernie are parents most kids would love to have. When Flutter, a girl from Melody's class has to stay with Melody's family a few days she is going to experience a supernatural adventure like no other. Beginning with some strange goings on in the house across from the Jackson Household on Lafayette street the journey pf mystery, suspense or more than a little fun begins.I love the way this author tell Melody Jackson is a young lady readers won't soon forget, her family is special also. Lonnie and Bernie are parents most kids would love to have. When Flutter, a girl from Melody's class has to stay with Melody's family a few days she is going to experience a supernatural adventure like no other. Beginning with some strange goings on in the house across from the Jackson Household on Lafayette street the journey pf mystery, suspense or more than a little fun begins.I love the way this author tells a story and the characters are amazing. Readers are lucky to be taken on a thrill ride that is a bit unexpected and a read you don't want to miss. ...more B. Johnson's Melody Jackson and the house on Lafayette Street was a veritable YA treat and I'll be watching for more from this talented storyteller. Unique and engaging, I especially \u00a0loved Johnson's easy style and the wonderful, realistic characters that she brings to life in this book. The fabulously appealing character of Melody is one that I'm sure many readers -the young as well as the young at heart - will relate to. With an interesting plot, fun and surprises along the way, this is a must B. Johnson's Melody Jackson and the house on Lafayette Street was a veritable YA treat and I'll be watching for more from this talented storyteller. Unique and engaging, I especially \u00a0loved Johnson's easy style and the wonderful, realistic characters that she brings to life in this book. The fabulously appealing character of Melody is one that I'm sure many readers -the young as well as the young at heart - will relate to. With an interesting plot, fun and surprises along the way, this is a must read for all lovers of \u00a0young adult fantasy. ...more Very cute children's book that even as an adult I enjoyed it very much and recommend it. The characters are all lovable except for one of course, the evil one. :) It would make an excellent cartoon movie by Pixar or Disney. This book was okay, however I found it difficult to get into reading. I initially didn't like the main character and almost put down the book a couple times however that being said I did enjoy the ending and once you actually read it it's an okay book<---C>B.M.B. Johnson</---C>", "Title": "Melody Jackson and the House on Lafayette Street"},
