{"Comments": "This is a great read! SF from a Christian perspective.<---F> First in a series</---F>. Plenty of action and suspence. Creatively includes space aliens in a storyline based on a solidly Christian worldview. This is a must read for Christians who enjoy Science Fiction/Fantasy and teenagers/young adults that are undecided in their faith and need positive Christian role models. This book is totally awesome! I LOVED it!It's about a college student who finds an alien and is totally changed. Very nicely written. Good plot, too. Once you start you just can't put it down! What if \u201cgo into all the world and preach the gospel to all nations\u201d was only the beginning of the Great Commission? What if Jesus,<---M> in taking on human form</---M>, was not just becoming human but was also becoming naharam, a class of beings to which humans merely belong? What if God called you to take the gospel beyond Planet Earth to a universe more alive than you\u2019d ever dreamed? Arana\u2019s Visitor by <---A>Julie Rollins</---A> explores those questions in an imaginative, exciting story. Book 1 of the Vadelah Chronicles What if \u201cgo into all the world and preach the gospel to all nations\u201d was only the beginning of the Great Commission? What if Jesus, in taking on human form, was not just becoming human but was also becoming naharam, a class of beings to which humans merely belong? What if God called you to take the gospel beyond Planet Earth to a universe more alive than you\u2019d ever dreamed? Arana\u2019s Visitor by Julie Rollins explores those questions in an imaginative, exciting story. Book 1 of the Vadelah Chronicles (<---B>\u201cvadelah\u201d is an alien word roughly translating to \u201capostle\u201d</---B>), it opens when Panagyra, a member of a bird-like species called the phantera, crash lands on earth. But the story quickly shifts its focus to David Decker, an ordinary college student who tries his best to live out his faith with integrity \u2014 even if that means showing hospitality to Panagyra and putting his life on the line to protect the naive alien from harm. David and his roommate Todd hide \u201cGyra\u201d in their apartment as long as they can, but a malicious agency with a hand in Gyra\u2019s crash landing is now seeking to capture him. The three become fugitives in an exciting race to send Gyra home, but in a terrifying moment, David finds himself trapped on Gyra\u2019s ship with the badly wounded phantera, heading to a world he\u2019d never imagined existed. On Arana, Gyra\u2019s home planet, David discovers that God has been directing his steps. David is the prophesied vadelah, the one who will bring the message of Christ not only to Gyra\u2019s peaceful race but also to the universe\u2019s most depraved and terrifying peoples. Julie Rollins is a homeschool mom who self-publishes her work. I met her online through a self-publishing loop, and she offered to send me a copy of Arana\u2019s Visitor. I\u2019m glad she did! The story is creative and well-written, with likable characters, a fascinating premise, and some tear-jerking moments. It\u2019s light on \u201cscience,\u201d making \u201cscience fiction\u201d a bit of a misnomer, but the cultures and creatures in Julie\u2019s work are well developed. She also does fantastic artwork, which can be viewed on her Web site. Note: This is a very family friendly book, but it does address serious issues of sin and immorality, especially on earth \u2014 one pivotal scene revolves around abortion, one Peretti-style showdown deals with New Age practices, and other major modern issues are addressed. Parents may want to screen or read this with their very young children. - Rachel Starr Thomson, author of Worlds Unseen and Burning Light , Books 1 and 2 of the Seventh World Trilogy. ...more Arana\u2019s Visitor by Julie Rollins, a review Book 1 of the Vadelah Chronicles Self-published in 2005, 288 pages Worldview: Christian. This book will appeal mostly to Christians. David Decker, a college student, and his roommate Todd are driving on a country road one night when they see a red-hot plane make an emergency landing. On a hunch, they rescue the pilot, an alien, hide him from authorities at a roadblock, and take him home. At first they don\u2019t trust him. But they decide to shelter him from bad Arana\u2019s Visitor by Julie Rollins, a review Book 1 of the Vadelah Chronicles Self-published in 2005, 288 pages Worldview: Christian. This book will appeal mostly to Christians. David Decker, a college student, and his roommate Todd are driving on a country road one night when they see a red-hot plane make an emergency landing. On a hunch, they rescue the pilot, an alien, hide him from authorities at a roadblock, and take him home. At first they don\u2019t trust him. But they decide to shelter him from bad guys in the government who know of the crash and are looking for the alien. This is Gyra, a very intelligent being who looks a lot like a bird and has both wings and arms. Once the bad guys figure out who is sheltering Gyra, David and Todd take Gyra and leave town.They teach Gyra English and disguise him as a man in a chicken costume advertising a local restaurant, a scenario with comic moments. At the same time, David, a Christian, witnesses to Gyra and shows him his Bible. Gyra is captivated. David and Todd help Gyra get the metals he needs to repair his ship. In Gyra\u2019s hair-raising escape, David on the spur of the moment decides to come along, because Gyra is injured. And so in a switcheroo, David becomes the alien on Gyra\u2019s planet Arana learning Gyra\u2019s language. Gyra is out of the picture, in a coma from his injuries, and so Gyra\u2019s people suspect David of having hurt Gyra. David learns that his home planet is the first place that the Lord made life, but not the last. These gentle bird-aliens have sophisticated space travel but fear Earth and have marked it off-limits because of the evil that comes from there. Naturally they suspect David of being evil too. But they are looking for fulfillment of a prophecy involving someone bringing news from Earth. This book is very well told and well edited. The pacing is good. Rollins is able to grab your emotions and tell a tale of good and evil on a galactic scale. I really enjoyed reading it. You will too.\u2013Phyllis Wheeler Rollins has written more books in this series, so she is currently making this first one available for free download on her Web site, www.JulieRollins.com . ...more I really wanted to like this book. I like science fiction and I am a Christian, but I do not feel like this book combined the two of them well. Some people have said that the Waterbabies is a good book if you read the abridged edition that tells the story with out all the tangents that Kingsley goes off on. That is the impression I have after reading about half of this book. Like it was trying to out do Christ in his Christianity. Plus there were a lot of cliche evangelical \"spiritual\" happenings. I really wanted to like this book. I like science fiction and I am a Christian, but I do not feel like this book combined the two of them well. Some people have said that the Waterbabies is a good book if you read the abridged edition that tells the story with out all the tangents that Kingsley goes off on. That is the impression I have after reading about half of this book. Like it was trying to out do Christ in his Christianity. Plus there were a lot of cliche evangelical \"spiritual\" happenings. \"Being attacked\" by feeling a constricting about the throat, happy feelings after prayer, strange feelings that alert the reader when demons are near, wind blowing when the Spirit is near, \"boldly going where not Christian has gone before.\" I found it difficult and painful to read. Now the book is geared towards teenagers so maybe I am being too critical. But it felt incredibly didactic. Flannery O'Connor says (and I have paraphrased because I can not find the exact quote at the moment) that a novelist must write with his own eyes, and not the eyes of the Church. If you write with the eyes of the Church you just produce a lot of pious crap. This book felt very pious, to the point the charactors were not believeable. Maybe not exactly, because I have known people like David and his mother and they are unbearable to be around. Not because they are holy and have a grand view of the cosmos, but because they have a shallow and anemic view of creation and Christianity. ...more This is such a good, descriptive and adventurous book! From the perspective of a college-aged David Decker, Christian and philanthropist, <+++>Arana's Visitor</+++> is about strange alien encounters, loving your neighbor - even if he DOES happen to be an alien from outerspace - and the amazing love and grace of God. It shows me that we may not know what will happen, and everything may look bad, but God always has a plan. He knows. I really recommend this book and the books that follow! Don't let the slightly awkward start to this book put you off. Rollins tells a story with humor, truth and insight into human nature. This is unlike any other science fiction, coming from a Christian world view, allowing God's truth and creativity to weave a great story. It is hard to put down! I loved this book. It was very intriguing to read. the authors kids go to my school. I simply fell in love with the places and characters she describes in her books. Anyone who can should definitely read these books. The evening my wife brought this book home began, for me, a reading marathon that would last hours past midnight. And to be quiet honest, I'm not really into reading. But this book simply does not allow itself to be put down, not even on my fifth time through it. I speak for myself of course, but also for generations of people I know who have read the book, ranging from from 9 year olds to grandparents, all of whom have reported the same captivating experience. It's intellectual enough to keep y The evening my wife brought this book home began, for me, a reading marathon that would last hours past midnight. And to be quiet honest, I'm not really into reading. But this book simply does not allow itself to be put down, not even on my fifth time through it. I speak for myself of course, but also for generations of people I know who have read the book, ranging from from 9 year olds to grandparents, all of whom have reported the same captivating experience. It's intellectual enough to keep you intrigued, yet safe enough to turn your kid loose with. We've also bought copies that we used as Christmas presents, as the book makes a great gift. Rollins takes you on a wild adventure, fast-paced and action filled, with perfectly timed stops allowing just enough rest to deeply move you or make you laugh. It may be fiction, but the social interactions that take place are strikingly real, bringing up serious, real-life issues that you'll be forced to confront alongside your protagonist. And yet amid the acts of desperation come small rays of truth and goodness, exposing social injustices and feeding hope both to those that are crying out for it, and those that don't want it, but need it anyway. If there is any book in the last 5 years that I have enjoyed as much or more than this one, it could only be the sequel. Don't miss out on <+++>Arana's Visitor</+++>. You're investing in an experience grounded in real life, but also in a thrill ride that's out of this world. ...more An engaging adventure filled with creative characters and surprises. Fun and lighthearted, but at times extremely moving. I really appreciated the blatant Christian worldview that is expertly woven into the plot. This book and all the others that follow it in the series contain material that addresses serious issues in our world in a non-confrontational manner. I would strongly recommend all of the books to believers and non-believers alike. This is my favorite series ever! It's a major science fiction book, but it has great Biblical values that allow aliens to exist with the Christian community. It's also clean, which is sometimes hard to find. Julie attends our church, and my daughter loves the series. I need to read our copies after she completes it. Loved this Christian sci-fi! Very imaginative, and deals with some tough questions (if there are extra-terrestrials, does Christ's death apply to them? and others). Good book If you like the \"Time\" quartet and the space trilogy and aren't going to be offended by fundamentalist & prolife themes you will like it<---C>Julie Rollins</---C>", "Title": "Arana's Visitor"},
