{"Comments": "It's a \"love story\" done \"<---A>Stephen King</---A>\" style and so perfectly done that my first thought after finishing was to read the novel a second time. The characters are so genuine and universal that everyone will love them, and the story is both magical and heart-breaking at exactly the same time. All I can say is that getting to the last page was a relief. Reading this novel was like staring at a cow for five hours.<---F> It started out fairly well</---F>. Youngish widow going through her brilliant writer husband's papers...maybe it was a thinly veiled biography of King's wife Tabitha? Maybe it would be good. Its initial promise wore thin after about the 70th time the word \"smucking\" appeared. After about the 5th time the main character called her sister \"Manda Bunny\", the promise was not only rubbed off the book, it was replaced with a bit of sandpaper that grated directly against your nerves. Stephen King could have do It started out fairly well. Youngish widow going through her brilliant writer husband's papers...maybe it was a thinly veiled biography of King's wife Tabitha? Maybe it would be good. Its initial promise wore thin after about the 70th time the word \"smucking\" appeared. After about the 5th time the main character called her sister \"Manda Bunny\", the promise was not only rubbed off the book, it was replaced with a bit of sandpaper that grated directly against your nerves. Stephen King could have done wonderful things with this book if he'd not immediately become cloying (Gott in Himmel, how many times did we need to be reminded that Lisey,<---M> the main character</---M>, and her husband Scott, the brilliant writer, had catch phrases and inside jokes and used the word \"smuck\" instead of the more satisfying F word? I'd guess at least once every page). When King tried to bring a somewhat realistic and on its own meaty story (meaty because a story about what the surviving spouse of a luminary goes through after the spouse's death is an interesting story enough, not to mention the meatiness of the mental illnesses he sort of wrote about, like self mutilation and catatonia) into the realm of the supernatural, he didn't seem to be trying too hard. Booya moon? Whatever. King is ever readable, and the book wasn't without its charms, but it could have been so much more. It could have been a masterpiece, given the theme and given the talent of the writer, who somehow compelled me to finish this treacly mess. ...more I've been reading a lot of \"New\" Stephen King lately, books that I've put off reading because I was afraid that they would not be as good as \"Old\" Stephen King. I wish I had not, because while \"New\" King is different, he is still The King. I listened to it on audio, but kind of followed along in the book too, sort of. Mare Winningham did a good job reading, and after a while I got used to her voices, although I think that she added a bit too much to the story. She made certain characters sound t I've been reading a lot of \"New\" Stephen King lately, books that I've put off reading because I was afraid that they would not be as good as \"Old\" Stephen King. I wish I had not, because while \"New\" King is different, he is still The King. I listened to it on audio, but kind of followed along in the book too, sort of. Mare Winningham did a good job reading, and after a while I got used to her voices, although I think that she added a bit too much to the story. She made certain characters sound too much alike for my taste, specifically Jim Dooley, Sparky Landon and Amanda Debusher. Amanda was different because she was given a more feminine voice, and no \"hillbilly\" at all, but the underlying voice was the same, and that bothered me. Anyway, moving on to the story itself. I wasn't sure what to make of this book when I started it, but I absolutely loved it. Dark and creepy, this one actually gave me goosebumps in a few spots. Listening to the events in Scott's childhood cellar were one of those times. To be honest, that part was scarier to me than the Longboy. I also found the running theme on mental illness interesting. King always has a slightly skewed way of viewing the world, and I thought it was perfectly fitting that he should describe mental illness the way he did in this book. Not as something internal, but as something external, either worming it's way into you, or by calling you to it... and then keeping you there. But even with all the creepiness, this was really a beautiful story of love and loyalty and trust and acceptance. And sacrifice. A friend of mine mentioned that she felt it was a love letter from King to his wife. I can understand that, but there is a lot more to this story than that. My book has the tagline, \"Their love was just the first chapter\", and I think that's perfectly fitting for how I viewed this book. This book is like a patchwork quilt of King's appreciation for the things that got him where he is today. Tabitha King is definitely at the head of that list, but she's by far not the only recipient of a tip of King's hat. His description of the Longboy, and of Boo'ya Moon in general reminded me strongly of H.P. Lovecraft's writing. Not just his atrocious beastly creations, but also Lovecraft's theory that sometimes what's left unseen and unexplained is far scarier than explained phenomena, regardless of how awful it may be. In this, I felt like King was paying homage to what he grew up reading. He also makes reference to his own creations, Derry, Castle Rock (which in itself is a homage to William Golding's \"Lord of the Flies\"), Dark Score Lake, Norris Ridgewick, and of course, there were several ties to the Dark Tower and The Talisman, specifically the phrase \"Light out for the territories\". Scott's ability to \"boom\" to Boo'ya Moon is reminiscent of Jack's ability to shift from the Territories to this world in \"The Talisman\". All in all, I really enjoyed this story. I look forward to King's next book. I will certainly not put it off as I did this one and \"Duma Key\". BOOL! The End. ...more As I read Lisey\u2019s Story by Stephen King, I am reminded why I love King\u2019s work so much. It is constantly changing, constantly evolving. Each book is a different experiment. Each book is a different tale; yet no two are the same. King has gone beyond the horror genre with Lisey\u2019s Story and written a, dare I say it, literary masterpiece. Its part horror, part love story, part tribute to a woman\u2019s husband. It\u2019s part creepshow, part romance and absolutely unclassifiable. King has written a novel that, As I read Lisey\u2019s Story by Stephen King, I am reminded why I love King\u2019s work so much. It is constantly changing, constantly evolving. Each book is a different experiment. Each book is a different tale; yet no two are the same. King has gone beyond the horror genre with Lisey\u2019s Story and written a, dare I say it, literary masterpiece. Its part horror, part love story, part tribute to a woman\u2019s husband. It\u2019s part creepshow, part romance and absolutely unclassifiable. King has written a novel that, while hard to classify, has a heart that beats at its centre.I keep wanting to speed forward while reading Lisey\u2019s Story. Normally, when I read a Stephen King book, I can zip through it in two to three days; regardless of size. I just can\u2019t do that with this one, the words won\u2019t let me. King\u2019s prose is so beautiful, so melodic, it\u2019s impossible to speed through, it\u2019s impossible to read as fast as I normally do.It feels like I\u2019m drinking in the words, drinking in the story. It feels like I\u2019m dancing with Lisey, floating through her flashbacks, her dealings with Zack McCool. But the dance has a dark edge to it, as if my partner will drop me on the floor and trod on me with sharp heeled shoes at any moment. I keep waiting for the other shoe to drop, or the bottom to fall out.Because I know it\u2019s coming. In the end, no matter how beautiful the novel is, I know it\u2019s a Stephen King novel and that something grim is going on, something darker is waiting at the edges of my vision for it\u2019s turn to float onto the page like a dark shadow. It\u2019s just a matter of waiting for it, wading my way through Kings most literary effort yet, and waiting for the monster to show its face. I don\u2019t understand the many negative reviews for Lisey\u2019s Story. I just don\u2019t get it. This novel is beautiful, heartbreaking and mesmerizing; what\u2019s not to like? I think those who don\u2019t like it are just expecting King to shovel out one more horror book after another; they don\u2019t want to give him a chance to try anything different, anything beautiful. To the naysayer\u2019s, I say: read it again. Take off the blinders and slip into Boo\u2019ya Moon. Your stay will be far more enjoyable with an open mind and a heart that bleeds. ...more \u00ab Si est\u00e1s leyendo esto, significa que yo ya no estoy. Creo que mi vida ser\u00e1 corta, pero el tiempo que he tenido (y te aseguro que ha sido magn\u00edfico) te lo debo a ti. Me has dado tanto\u2026 Te pido que me des un poquito m\u00e1s, que leas estas \u00faltimas palabras, las m\u00e1s dif\u00edciles que he escrito jam\u00e1s... \u00bb Romanticismo, drama, terror, misterio, suspenso, fantas\u00eda, \u00bfqu\u00e9 m\u00e1s? Excelente libro. Es una novela diferente de King. A muchos no les gust\u00f3 por esperarse una historia llena de terror, horror y asquerosida \u00ab Si est\u00e1s leyendo esto, significa que yo ya no estoy. Creo que mi vida ser\u00e1 corta, pero el tiempo que he tenido (y te aseguro que ha sido magn\u00edfico) te lo debo a ti. Me has dado tanto\u2026 Te pido que me des un poquito m\u00e1s, que leas estas \u00faltimas palabras, las m\u00e1s dif\u00edciles que he escrito jam\u00e1s... \u00bb Romanticismo, drama, terror, misterio, suspenso, fantas\u00eda, \u00bfqu\u00e9 m\u00e1s? Excelente libro. Es una novela diferente de King. A muchos no les gust\u00f3 por esperarse una historia llena de terror, horror y asquerosidades, y no es tan as\u00ed . Es un relato hasta cierto punto tierno y con mucha tristeza y desolaci\u00f3n. Trata sobre la p\u00e9rdida y c\u00f3mo la soledad aparece en los momentos m\u00e1s inesperados para golpearnos sin piedad. A m\u00ed me encant\u00f3 todo el misterio que implement\u00f3 King; asimismo los cambios de tiempo y la fantas\u00eda, en Boo'ya Moon . Con relaci\u00f3n a Boo'ya Moon ... \u00a1Qu\u00e9 creaci\u00f3n la de King! Am\u00e9 ese plano tan t\u00e9trico y on\u00edrico. En ese mundo me encontr\u00e9 con una de las criaturas m\u00e1s espeluznantes y perturbadoras que tuve el horror de conocer... El Chaval Larguirucho . \u00ab T\u00fa eras mi milagro. T\u00fa eras mi milagro de ojos caf\u00e9s. No solo ese d\u00eda, sino siempre. T\u00fa eras quien me manten\u00eda alejadas las tinieblas. T\u00fa brillabas. \u00bb El inicio es bastante lento y un poco pesado, aunque el clima et\u00e9reo que impone el autor nos obliga a seguir adelante con la lectura. Una vez superadas las 100 p\u00e1ginas olvidate de soltar el libro, porque lamento decirte que eso no va a pasar... Se vuelve sumamente adictivo. Tiene partes \u2014en especial cuando King trata el tema del pasado de Scott Landon\u2014 que son escalofriantes hasta los huesos . Muy estremecedoras. El final es perfecto. Pocas veces una conclusi\u00f3n me gust\u00f3 tanto como la de este libro. King le dio un cierre soberbio . Gritar\u00e9 para que vuelvas. ...more This book was selected for my NJ Bookclub because it has similar themes to our last read, Bag of Bones. I've previously read this one, or listened, because it was an audiobook, and so this time I read-read it. I loved the experience of the audio - the reader is great and the audio definitely brings the story to life in different ways than the text itself does, but reading this with my very own eyeballs is rewarding in its own way. First, it's a more active, involved experience. Audio is very pas This book was selected for my NJ Bookclub because it has similar themes to our last read, Bag of Bones. I've previously read this one, or listened, because it was an audiobook, and so this time I read-read it. I loved the experience of the audio - the reader is great and the audio definitely brings the story to life in different ways than the text itself does, but reading this with my very own eyeballs is rewarding in its own way. First, it's a more active, involved experience. Audio is very passive, right? You can listen while you multi-task, and it will go on without you if you get distracted or zone out or fall asleep. But reading this required me to really be present in the moment and in the story, and especially the writing, so I noticed things that I hadn't (or had and then forgot) the first time around. For instance, the writing. This is a very... flowy book. It's structured in such a way that the past and the present and memories and dreams are kind of intertwined and flow into and around each other. (Which I guess is what intertwined means. Whatever.) The writing will just kind of end, no punctuation or completion, and pick up in the next segment or section with a continuation from a different perspective or in memory or in a different time. It shifts between past tense and present tense and 3rd person limited and 3rd person omniscient, and all storylines and times and perspectives meld together. So you have to keep up to know where and when you are in the story... or maybe don't and just go with it. In the text, as I'm not usually a header reader, my eye just naturally skips the breaks and continues on. It's not the same kind of unbroken narrative as say, Cujo, which would have definitely benefited from some segmentation, but it almost feels as though it is at times. It has a kind of pseudo-stream of consciousness mixed with magical realism feel that works for the story, without feeling annoyingly tedious as I usually find both SOC and MR to be. So, good job there, King. But another thing that I noticed is that there are a lot of connections and links to his previous work, meaning his stories, characters, and themes, and to his own life. This is both good and bad. Someone who is very familiar with King's work might feel that it is either self-derivative or chock full of fun easter eggs and connections, depending on how charitable they are feeling at the time. I can see it both ways, but I tend to lean more toward the charitable side and I can enjoy the influences his previous work had on this story. For instance, for me, Andrew Landon had undertones of Mark Torrance (Jack's father) from The Shining. That he was cognizant of his abuse and had, in his mind or in reality, a reason for it, makes him a more understandable and relateable character for me, but I couldn't help making that connection because of the very similar feels of the characters when they were in their hectoring rages, and especially given the love that their sons both held for the men who hurt them and their family members. Lisey, though VERY different from her, had a bit of Dolores Claiborne in her nature, if only the stubbornness and backbone to wade through fire to help the people she loves. Lisey and Dolores don't have much else in common, but that stalwart quality makes up for a lot. We talked about Lisey a bit at my bookclub meeting last night, and it was pointed out that Lisey is one of the few women that King has written who doesn't really DO anything. She doesn't really have her own thing - she's purely there to be a support system for her sister, and then later her husband. And even after he's gone, she still does nothing but exist until she starts to clean out his office, and then the floodgates open and things start happening that makes her act accordingly. But, she's not a philanthropist, she doesn't volunteer, she's not on committees or boards or even have any hobbies that I can tell. She's really just something of a shim - the piece that holds something else stable and in place. Scott Landon had a bit of Jack Sawyer and Mike Noonan and King himself, and even though we never get to see Scott while he's alive (outside of flashbacks and memories), he is one of my favorite characters. His history and his story, and his methods of coping and adapting and his refusal to carry on the cycle of this madness, is commendable. I found myself often wishing that I could just give him a hug and comfort him, because he lived through so much hurt and pain. It made me feel a bit better that he found happiness and support and understanding in Lisey, even IF she had nothing outside of that role. That sentence probably sets the woman's lib and feminism movements back about a bazillion years, but I'm not sorry about it, and I'm not taking it back. He is such a tragic character that I'm happy he got to be happy for a while. Anyway, I'm rambling on now. What I'm getting at is that while I can see how he borrowed bits from his previous characters, I liked it more than not. I really liked how the story was actually plotted around Amanda (even though it's not MUCH of a plot, if I'm honest) while it's the history of Scott's life and Scott and Lisey's marriage that actually helps her recover. I loved the interactions of the sisters and how real and fucked up they were. Their names bugged the hell out of me, though. Jodotha? Cantata? Darlanna? Amanda's daughter Intermezzo? And Good Ma (mother) and Dandy (father)? Who would call their parents that? Weird. I still found the most creepy and disturbing scenes to be Scott's history of his father and brother, and they were, if anything, more heartbreaking this time around. It was easy for me to put myself in the place of a little boy having to deal with this stuff - trying to help someone who was into the bad-gunky, and I am somewhat in awe of the fact that he made it through and managed to move past it, while living with it. The concept of belief vs reality, or even of belief SHAPING reality is a strong one in this book. Boo'ya Moon is a kind of canvas place which seems to both exist on its own and yet also be whatever it is needed to be. It's got a dual nature just like everything else. In the light, it's healing and calm and something of a relaxing retreat.... but when darkness falls, it turns malevolent and threatening. Even in its lighter nature, it's dangerous though. Too much of a good thing always is. Boo'ya Moon is like the rooms that many of King's characters retreat to in their own minds to protect their innermost thoughts and selves from outside threats. But in this case, it's a real, or real enough, place that can actually hide and protect physically as well as only mentally when needed. Though the question of whether it's really real, or if it's only manifested because of expectation - shared delusion? - is one that I can't answer. This book is definitely one that makes me think - about the nature of love and how much of oneself it is safe to give to another, and how far we will go to help those we love. It was asked last night whether we, at the bookclub, would have stayed with someone like Scott. I had to think about it for a bit, but not long. If the fantastical element (Boo'ya Moon and the bad-gunky, etc) were removed, and it was just mental illness, would the question still be asked? I'd like to think not. We love who we love, and in doing so we accept them, flaws and all, and we help battle through the hard shit together. We become two. ...more Smucking smucking oh my god so much smmmmuckkking!! Do you know what i mean, babyluv? Can you feel this smucking annoyance towards this smucking book? Sure you can. Every great artist produces a smucking turd every now and again. Smuck the smuckers who think everything has to be so smucking perfect all the smucking time. annoyed at all the smuckings? Yeah me too. Try reading 300+ pages of that plus other made-up language that repeats itself in almost EVERY paragraph. To be honest, the last 200 pa Smucking smucking oh my god so much smmmmuckkking!! Do you know what i mean, babyluv? Can you feel this smucking annoyance towards this smucking book? Sure you can. Every great artist produces a smucking turd every now and again. Smuck the smuckers who think everything has to be so smucking perfect all the smucking time. annoyed at all the smuckings? Yeah me too. Try reading 300+ pages of that plus other made-up language that repeats itself in almost EVERY paragraph. To be honest, the last 200 pages I did a lot of skipping. So I cheated, sue me. I honestly didn't care for the characters or the plot, it was not what i thought it was at all. Not only that but I honestly didnt get Scott and lisey's relationship at all, they never seemed real to me. Which is weird cause usually King's characters are fantastic and well developed. Here, not so much. Throughout the whole book I just kept thinking \"ok, why is she doing that?\" or \"ok so now we're in the past-oh wait this is the future! no its the present....but then why is he there?\" I understand Scott is some kind of ghost but...WHY!? Maybe I'm just not imaginative enough to understand. But seriously, this book confused me. I didn't understand any of the characters, and honestly I never got attached to any of them enough to care. And they all seemed so MANIC. Seriously, Lisey and everyone else all seemed seriously crazy, talking to themselves or figures of their imagination or cutting themselves. The only cahracters that seemed different were the sheriffs and deputies of the story, and all of them seemed quite stoic and by-the-book stereotypes. Which, considering King's previous work, is seriously surprising to me, almost to the point of shock. So I gave this turd two stars. Every great artist deserves some slack (King even says so in his \"Author's Statement\" at the end of the book), and King certainly deserves that much. ...more Lisey Debusher Landon is the widow of Scott Landon, the Stephen King stand-in here, an author who achieved fame in his early 20\u2019s and never let go, soon becoming and then remaining a best-selling novelist. King weaves several time lines, Landon\u2019s bizarre childhood and his relationship with his father and brother, the courtship of Landon and Lisey, an assassination attempt on Landon by a psycho, Landon\u2019s later illness, and the present. Lisey, two years after Scott\u2019s death, is still tidying up his Lisey Debusher Landon is the widow of Scott Landon, the Stephen King stand-in here, an author who achieved fame in his early 20\u2019s and never let go, soon becoming and then remaining a best-selling novelist. King weaves several time lines, Landon\u2019s bizarre childhood and his relationship with his father and brother, the courtship of Landon and Lisey, an assassination attempt on Landon by a psycho, Landon\u2019s later illness, and the present. Lisey, two years after Scott\u2019s death, is still tidying up his affairs, beset by a scholarly pair from a university with their greedy paws eager for his accumulated notes and unpublished writings. Her relationship with Scott is paralleled by her relationship with her siblings, three sisters, one of whom is seriously deranged, and falls into catatonia after an emotional blow. A present day psycho seeks her out and forces Lisey to confront some repressed knowledge, about Landon and herself. There is much in here about personal use of language. Lisey uses \u201csmuck\u201d instead of the usual four letter expletive, behavior learned from Scott. The word \u201cbool\u201d figures prominently as well. There are many sayings that probably originated in King\u2019s Maine background. He adds to these, giving the piece some texture. He also fills the mouths of the tale\u2019s psychos with a bit of verbal drool that is never explained. How explain madness? There are many instances in which King parallels/echoes images across scenes, noting the state of at least two pairs of underpants, faces smeared with blood that resemble clowns. There are repeated mentions of stations of the cross, although it is never really clear that the connection is that deep. The story is engaging. Too long of course, but what can one do? King gets in his writing about children under stress, a favorite pastime of his. There is otherworldly material here as well that requires willing suspension of disbelief. But this is Stephen King after all. Does one really expect such to be absent? I enjoyed reading the book. The texture was fun, the references to other artists, musicians, writers. It was not scary the way some of his books have been. I will have no nightmares as a result of reading Lisey\u2019s Story. It is a good read, not a great one. A few other SKs we have reviewed Under the Dome The Shining Duma Key Doctor Sleep Revival ...more Major bomb. & actually pretty pretentious. The search for anything salvageable in this junkyard is an impossible task. You owe it to yourself, invest your time on something better. May possibly tie for worst King novel with \"Insomnia.\" I have such a love/hate relationship with this book. For one, it's full of twice-used ideas. Everything you find inside <+++>Lisey's Story</+++> is taken part and parcel from other King novels. The idea of being haunted by a spouse and one half of the marriage being an author is Bag of Bones to a Tee. You have the lush other world just beyond ours that is wonderful during the day, and horrible after dark, via Rose Madder . Then you have the character of \"Zack McCool\" who is John Shooter from \"Secret Window, I have such a love/hate relationship with this book. For one, it's full of twice-used ideas. Everything you find inside <+++>Lisey's Story</+++> is taken part and parcel from other King novels. The idea of being haunted by a spouse and one half of the marriage being an author is Bag of Bones to a Tee. You have the lush other world just beyond ours that is wonderful during the day, and horrible after dark, via Rose Madder . Then you have the character of \"Zack McCool\" who is John Shooter from \"Secret Window, Secret Garden\" mixed with shadows of Annie Wilkes of Misery . It's one of the only novels wherein King steals heavily from himself. He's borrowed from numerous authors over his four-plus-decade career, but this time he's riding the Dean Koontz train into Repeatsville. If it's possible to plagiarize yourself, King does so in this novel. This and this alone is why I couldn't see rating the book five stars. With that being said, you're unlikely to find a better written King novel. I understand why it's King's personal favorite. But that doesn't mean I can ignore the blatant repetition. So what is a reviewer to do? This time around, I'm going with style over content. King's prose is gorgeous here, even moreso than in Bag of Bones , and that's saying something. There are entire chapters worth quoting, and King himself will tell you that's unlike him. He's been honest in the past about how he sometimes awkwardly stumbles and powers through scenes with sheer dumb will, and that's putting it nicely. Lisey's Story , while being your typical King novel content wise, is a beautiful product conceived by a man who has spent almost half a century publicly honing his craft. It has all the staples of a terrific King novel: the horror, the unfailing heart, and the uncanny ability the author possesses of writing believable and flawed women. My favorite part of this novel is early on, it is, truth be told, the only reason I finished the book the first time around, back when it came out in 2006. I will admit that the book is never quite as good, story wise, as it is during the scene wherein Scott is shot. Yes, the story is a struggle after that, mainly because it hops around through time like Bugs Bunny and Doctor Who's hyperactive love child. You must pay close attention in the later chapters or risk being left in King's dust. Still, these flashbacks and flash forwards and returns to present are touching and, at times, utterly heart rending. Scott's death (it's in the synopsis that he's dead, so I don't consider that information a spoiler) is probably the strongest-written section in the entire book. For this reread, I decided on the audiobook narrated by Mare Winningham. If you dig audiobooks, I highly recommend you do the same. She especially excels at performing Young Scott. If you click on \"view spoiler\", you should know that there are spoilers for other King novels aside from this one. What you will get if you clickety-clack that spoilery button are this book's tie ins to other King novels, and a conspiracy theory regarding Boo-ya Moon. (view spoiler) [ Conspiracy theory: I believe that Boo'ya Moon is the same place Mrs. Todd disappears to in the short story \"Mrs. Todd's Shortcut.\" I also believe it's the same world Rose escapes into in Rose Madder . Of course all these places are part of the same multiverse, one that I call the King-verse. They are all simply different stops on different beams along the path to the Dark Tower. Tie ins: Andy Clutterbuck, the guy who took over for Alan Pangborn as sheriff of Castle County, makes an appearance. There is a small, one sentence nod to the Dark Tower. I missed coping it down while I was listening, but to paraphrase, it goes something like this: \"In some tower's keep, everything was right with the world.\" Close enough for government work, anyway. (hide spoiler) ] In summation: Other than the final Dark Tower novels, Lisey's Story was the best thing to come out of post-accident King. There have been other terrific novels since this one, but for a while after that van creamed him, I was concerned. I think we all were. Lisey's Story renewed my faith in King. Final Judgment: Rehashed hash can still get you high. ...more \u201cThere was a lot they didn\u2019t tell you about death, she had discovered, and one of the biggies was how long it took the ones you loved most to die in your heart.\u201d Scott still speaks to Lisey, in her mind. He tells her to follow the clues, follow the bools. Her husband, a famous writer, died a few years ago. She spends nights remembering him, remembering his life, his near death, his other world. \u201cI think most kids have a place they go to when they\u2019re scared or lonely or just plain bored. They call \u201cThere was a lot they didn\u2019t tell you about death, she had discovered, and one of the biggies was how long it took the ones you loved most to die in your heart.\u201d Scott still speaks to Lisey, in her mind. He tells her to follow the clues, follow the bools. Her husband, a famous writer, died a few years ago. She spends nights remembering him, remembering his life, his near death, his other world. \u201cI think most kids have a place they go to when they\u2019re scared or lonely or just plain bored. They call it NeverLand or the Shire, Boo\u2019ya Moon if they\u2019ve got big imaginations and make it up for themselves. Most of them forget. The talented few \u2013 like Scott \u2013 harness their dreams and turn them into horses.\u201d As Lisey struggles to cope with the loss of her husband, and the memories, and the constant drawing into something else, something more, something she will learn is her story, Lisey\u2019s story, a maniac comes into her life and threatens her with a dead cat in the mailbox; he wants Scott\u2019s stuff; he considers himself one of Scott\u2019s biggest fans. Life never says \u201cenough\u201d it seems, one thing after another. Her sister has a nervous breakdown and cuts her body everywhere and ends up catatonic. Lisey has to help her. In King\u2019s world, everything the characters go through connect; they all have a greater purpose. The poetic language pleases the heart. King mentions in the end he wrote this from the heart and not the head. The story has some serious autobiographical similarities, yet strong points of differentiation. One point being King never knew his dad, and Scott\u2019s dad plays a major role. These may be symbolic representations. King has written and talked about his absent father, and how much that hurt him (cut him). The story is violent, shocking in violence (in honor of King I dropped \u201cshockingly\u201d), yet contrasts with the beauty of the language and the love story. This is love story, King-style. A major theme is cutting, mutilation of the body, by self and others. Insanity also weaves into fabric of the story \u2013 Scott\u2019s dad, Scott, Scott\u2019s brother, Lisey\u2019s sister. Stephen King confronts the issues we don\u2019t want to talk about. He confronts the darkness. He speaks out for those nobody wants to hear, those too ashamed to speak up, those with secrets too taboo for confession. Scott\u2019s imaginary world, Boo\u2019ya Moon reminded me of Fairy Land in George Macdonald\u2019s Phantastes and, in fact, adapts that as a nickname. You will want to walk the tropical beauty by day, but don\u2019t come around at night; all becomes poison and the Laughers come out, and other things of which death would be a better meeting. Scott went to Boo\u2019ya moon for his ideas, a place he spent to break from reality and write his stories. Psychologists, I learned in a class once, might call this \u201cpsychological flow,\u201d the state of mind people experience when they perform certain activities, such as singing, writing, playing an instrument, or sports (he\u2019s on fire!). The first half or so of the book had low energy. I almost didn\u2019t get through to the second half. About forty-seven percent or so, things peak. They don\u2019t pick up, they peak. The first half seemed to me like placing the pieces in a chess game. The second half seemed like a completely different game altogether, like a Roman Gladiator fight or something. King has said the book claims his favorite spot for those he wrote. I believe the book claims the most important of all I\u2019ve read of his works. I\u2019ve never read Dolores Claiborne or Rose Madder (and other reviews mention these books). The book will continue to speak his life after he leaves the living world. Did he write this for his readers, or for his wife, who knows him the way Lisey knew Scott, and still loved him for him and not for his books? I warned my wife once. I said, \u201cBabe, I\u2019m going to cry the day Stephen King dies if I\u2019m still here.\u201d The world will cry. ...more There's something special about Stephen King for me. I guess I'm a literary person at heart. Lots of Jane Austen and poetry, that's me. But I've always found King special. He recreates how I used to feel about Enid Blyton when I was a kid. Just a pleasure to read -- and once I pick up one of the books I can, if life permits, always finish it as a sitting. For me it's like eating a really delicious but slightly self-indulgent meal. Lemon mousse drizzled with good dark chocolate and whipped cream. L There's something special about Stephen King for me. I guess I'm a literary person at heart. Lots of Jane Austen and poetry, that's me. But I've always found King special. He recreates how I used to feel about Enid Blyton when I was a kid. Just a pleasure to read -- and once I pick up one of the books I can, if life permits, always finish it as a sitting. For me it's like eating a really delicious but slightly self-indulgent meal. Lemon mousse drizzled with good dark chocolate and whipped cream. Lisey's Story took two days, not one, but it was the same kind of intense experience for me as before. I had a lovely time reading it. There's another thing I should say about King novels. With my favourite ones, there is almost always a point where he disappoints me slightly (though I don't stop reading and I don't stop enjoying myself). In Dolores Claiborne it's the point where a character walks into a picture. Often, is the point where a psychological thriller turns into a fantasy romp. That was true in Insomnia. I like him best before he gets surreal - -often *just* before he does that thing. This novel is about a the wife of a dead novelist. Lots and lots of the detail is very close to King's own experience, so you do feel he's thinking right through that situation. It's dedicated to Tabitha, his wife, and if you buy into that scenario -- that she IS widowed and he (King himself) is gone -- loads of it seems intensely realistic. I think he does 'mine' his own life often, and quite a bit of it is in here, I think. I liked that about the book too. It makes me feel like King is a human being I know and like. It gets more complicated with a second plot element involving Lisey's sister who gets ill, mentally ill and goes blank, completely. Opts out. I believed that too. And I really liked the idea that one way of getting back to life, to mental health, was through creative imagination, but that if you stay out there in the dream-imagination space of our brains, you remain to all intents and purposes 'sick'. It starts to get surreal when we go back to the early relationship between Lisey and her dead husband -- and it appears there was a time -- in their early time together, when something peculiar happened -- he took her momentarily into another parallel world of some kind. It's very delicately handled. I believed it: I thought it was the kind of 'magic' that a novelist can do, that King is actually doing for me as I read the book. So mentally I hadn't got to the surreal stage then. And after that, there's loads about the novelist's early life, which was horrendous. But I still believed the idea that he could kind of vanish into another mental world, escape that way. Meanwhile, King's building the idea that this other world, this world of the imagination is realler than just symbolic. In this novel, people need to go there and when you get there not everything is roses. The 'other world' in it has a pool, what King calls 'the myth pool'. That was okay for me too. It reminded me very much of the wood between the worlds in C S Lewis's The Magician's Nephew. Back to my childhood again! And I really loved the nightmare creature who lives there - that image, the power of it, is as good as anything you can do in a poem. So of all the King novels, this one took me furthest into the 'magic' bit where he usually loses my allegiance slightly. It did it so successfully that I realise thinking back on it now, that I hadn't actually realised how far he'd gone surreal when the narrator's older brother becomes mentally ill in a way that is MORE than anything I think it really possible. And I found the attempted solution believable. In fact I believed this whole book -- I was right in there -- UNTIL just before the end. He lost me just before the end. It was this point where he called a tree in the other world 'the story tree'. It struck me as false. I'll go with the myth pool, and I don't mind the idea of someone reading a crucial story sitting under a tree. But please not The Story Tree. Having said that, I DID like this book. I liked loads about it. Most of it. The fact that it is really about writing appealed to me. And at the very end I really like the way Stephen King talks about his editor, Nan Graham, in his author's note at the end. He talks about the notes she sent back on his first stage ms: \" I had first year French essays that came back cleaner\". Really nice see someone do that -- acknowledge what difference a good editor can make -- even to the best-selling author in the world (I read that somewhere -- is he?). I guess he probably is. And that's my holiday reading over for the next three months.... ...more This is the first King I'm reading in about 25 years. ETA: I don't really like it much. I had it on my TBR list since it came out. I suppose I read a good review of it somewhere. I'm almost 100 pages in and feh. Not much has happened and while I don't dislike the protagonist I find her kind of vapid and not interesting. There is way too much made up language that is DUMB. So that doesn't leave much, IMO. I'm stopping at page 320. I am not wasting any more of my time on this. It's waaaay too long. This is the first King I'm reading in about 25 years. ETA: I don't really like it much. I had it on my TBR list since it came out. I suppose I read a good review of it somewhere. I'm almost 100 pages in and feh. Not much has happened and while I don't dislike the protagonist I find her kind of vapid and not interesting. There is way too much made up language that is DUMB. So that doesn't leave much, IMO. I'm stopping at page 320. I am not wasting any more of my time on this. It's waaaay too long. I no longer care what happens. ...more As King grows older, his books seem to turn ever more emotionally overwhelming and wistful -and this one, particularly, very sweet. Lisey's Story has a thread of fundamental wrongness going through it that keeps the suspense going -the horror side of King's narrative is strong as ever, the descriptions of the physical hardships are engrossing and captivating in a level that makes you feel terribly uncomfortable, but there's another thread of horror, a very human, everyday thread, about love and As King grows older, his books seem to turn ever more emotionally overwhelming and wistful -and this one, particularly, very sweet. Lisey's Story has a thread of fundamental wrongness going through it that keeps the suspense going -the horror side of King's narrative is strong as ever, the descriptions of the physical hardships are engrossing and captivating in a level that makes you feel terribly uncomfortable, but there's another thread of horror, a very human, everyday thread, about love and loss, and how no matter how special we might be or feel we are, we all have to reach the end of the road, and there's no coming back home after that. The characters are all fantastic. Lisey and Scott are the romance story I always want to read, the one with hardships but that conquers everything -almost everything- with their love and respect for each other. The sisters are all... very sisterlike. It's funny and annoying and infuriating, but under all of that there's definitely love. I think this is the most tender book I've read from King, you can feel the way he craddles the story and the characters with infinite gentleness even as he breaks them and makes them go through hell. The narrative breaking into past, memories and present is a real page turner. I like to put down books on clean chapter breaks, so I had a hard time putting this one down. And when I finally finished it, it was with a deep sense of wistfulness. The dead ones still love. And we will always love them back. And that's the beautiful pain of this story. ...more Lisey\u2019s Story is a bit of an oddball in Stephen King\u2019s body of work (along with Gerald\u2019s Game from what I\u2019ve heard, although I haven\u2019t read it myself) because of its near absence of plot and snail-like pace. However, what it lacks in plot, it makes up in characterization and introspection. So if you don\u2019t like being inside characters\u2019 heads for hundreds and hundreds of pages without much action going on, then this book is not for you. As for me, I find sharing Lisey\u2019s thoughts and discovering wi Lisey\u2019s Story is a bit of an oddball in Stephen King\u2019s body of work (along with Gerald\u2019s Game from what I\u2019ve heard, although I haven\u2019t read it myself) because of its near absence of plot and snail-like pace. However, what it lacks in plot, it makes up in characterization and introspection. So if you don\u2019t like being inside characters\u2019 heads for hundreds and hundreds of pages without much action going on, then this book is not for you. As for me, I find sharing Lisey\u2019s thoughts and discovering with her bits and pieces of her late husband\u2019s past a most fascinating and rewarding experience. I even like the made-up language they use together, and unlike some I do not think it makes the book hard to read. If anything, it creates a greater sense of intimacy between us readers and Lisey, and of course between Lisey and her husband Scott. Definitely one of my favorite Stephen King novels, and in my humble opinion one of his strongest. ...more *****UPDATE: 8-25-2016....I am going to try this one again, since I've read more of King's books now, and after reading some of the Dark Tower books. I am sure I will have a better appreciation of this great book....I also should say: I think this was my first King read. I had not been acquainted well with his \"universe\". Yet, what I said about the \"scare\" I had was true--I watch horror movies all the time. NOTHING scares me, but there was a point in this book where I got so freaked out I couldn *****UPDATE: 8-25-2016....I am going to try this one again, since I've read more of King's books now, and after reading some of the Dark Tower books. I am sure I will have a better appreciation of this great book....I also should say: I think this was my first King read. I had not been acquainted well with his \"universe\". Yet, what I said about the \"scare\" I had was true--I watch horror movies all the time. NOTHING scares me, but there was a point in this book where I got so freaked out I couldn't pick it up again for another month or so....it was the middle of the night and I actually called the person who loaned this to me and yelled at them something like, \"Thanks a lot!!! I can't sleep now...can't even turn off my light...why did you do this to me???\" Yep--very rude of me. I just was not used to feeling fear....I can't remember what it was, but I had to pick up something mind-numbingly cheerful to get me through the night. ****First review: I liked MOST of this book. Especially the first two-thirds or so. I am a very hard person to scare, but there was at least one section that made me shiver and not want to turn the lights out, which says a lot for me. Unfortunately, I was not crazy about all the time spent in the \"other world\", for lack of a better phrase-a lot of time was spent in this supernatural world, which I wish had been a bit less, the real world scares were good enough for me. Similar to how I felt about Rose Madder a bit later. Over all, a very entertaining read, though, and I know many people who thought the supernatural world was the best part. Worth noting: This was King's personal favorite, wrote with Tabitha in his heart and mind... ...more Evo knjiga je kraj mene ve\u0107 nekih pola sata i svaki put kad je pogledam , vrati se ona knedla koju sam uspio na silu progutati . Emocionalno me je toliko istro\u0161ila i mislim da nisam u mogu\u0107nosti ta\u010dno prikazati koliko mi se pri\u010da dopala . Prelijepa pri\u010da o Lisi i njenom sje\u0107anju na pokojnog mu\u017ea , sa dovoljnom dozom krimija , malo horora i puno puno nostalgi\u010dne atmosfere . Stvarno sam u\u017eivao . Po\u010detak jeste konfuzan , i \u0161to se same pri\u010de ti\u010de , ali i prijevod je tu \"pomogao \" ( mada , da ga ne oc Evo knjiga je kraj mene ve\u0107 nekih pola sata i svaki put kad je pogledam , vrati se ona knedla koju sam uspio na silu progutati . Emocionalno me je toliko istro\u0161ila i mislim da nisam u mogu\u0107nosti ta\u010dno prikazati koliko mi se pri\u010da dopala . Prelijepa pri\u010da o Lisi i njenom sje\u0107anju na pokojnog mu\u017ea , sa dovoljnom dozom krimija , malo horora i puno puno nostalgi\u010dne atmosfere . Stvarno sam u\u017eivao . Po\u010detak jeste konfuzan , i \u0161to se same pri\u010de ti\u010de , ali i prijevod je tu \"pomogao \" ( mada , da ga ne ocrnim . Prevodilac je stvarno potrudio). Iako pri\u010da nije King-like , ima svojih trenutaka ( Skotovo djetinsjvto me je toliko potreslo , da sam morao odlo\u017eiti knjigu na neko vrijeme ) . I tu se vidi odakle je njegov sin dobio ideju za kratku pri\u010du Abraham's Boys: A Story from the Collection 20th Century Ghosts . Dosta su sli\u010dne . Sve u svemu , ne odustajte zbog po\u010detka , mo\u017eda vam se neo\u010dekivano svidi , kao \u0161to je meni . ( po mogu\u0107nosti , \u010ditati na engleskom !) 4,5* ...more I went on a bool hunt that covered 513 pages of typewritten text and when I came out to the other side, the one where one does not eat fruits after dark, I was not afraid of anything. Interestingly enough, I was ten, the same age as Scott when he lost both Paul and his dad, when I read my first Stephen King novel. I'll never forget the experience of reading Salem's Lot. It took me two days to consume what would become the portal to all things King for the next 25 years. My love affair with Mr. Ki I went on a bool hunt that covered 513 pages of typewritten text and when I came out to the other side, the one where one does not eat fruits after dark, I was not afraid of anything. Interestingly enough, I was ten, the same age as Scott when he lost both Paul and his dad, when I read my first Stephen King novel. I'll never forget the experience of reading Salem's Lot. It took me two days to consume what would become the portal to all things King for the next 25 years. My love affair with Mr. King's novels hasn't always been steady. There were hiccups along the way such as Cujo but there were highs such as Bag of Bones. Highs so high, that they always beckoned me back to the way the man can spin a yarn. Then... there was Lisey's Story. The morphine like quality of the storytelling was there. In the beginning stages of the book it was more like a drip and then it felt like an overdose. However, the book didn't end where it was supposed to. The book, much like the third installment of Lord of the Rings, ended about 40 pages too late. His magic waned and I walked away feeling disenchanted. In the comment section at the back, King mentions that people wonder where his editor was during this novel and just how much material he actually did give his editor to work with. I shall apologize but I feel like the editor was asleep at the wheel or hanging with the shrouded figures on the bench looking out into the pool where we all go to drink. Some tough love via a red pen would have possibly saved this book... or perhaps, it wouldn't have. We shall never know now. What I did absolutely love was the clear transmission of the secret language of marriage. The language that is shared by two people who are in long committed relationships that only the two of them speak. Very few books, articles, blogs are written of this phenomenon but King managed to do it justice. I didn't care for all the babyluv junk or the bad gunky of it all. I felt a connection to the way Scott spoke to his wife and how Lisey could still hear him, reaching her, beyond Boo'yah Moon, beyond death, because the secret language of marriage is not governed by the same laws. It is a world onto its own and one where only two people can ever reside. There is some magic in this book. Not much, but some. It glimmers but it never fully enraptures and for that, I am sorry. I read King to be whisked away to a world that is not my own. This world wasn't for me, but it may be for some people. ...more Lisey's Story is half horror story, half semi-autobiographical ode to King's wife. Lisey's deceased husband, a former best-selling novelist named Scott Landon, is certainly not Stephen King, but those familiar with King can see a lot of him in Landon. Two years after Landon's death, Lisey finds herself being stalked by a deranged lunatic, and to save herself, she must call upon help from her crazy older sister, her dead husband, the dark secrets buried with him, and her own will. The story has al Lisey's Story is half horror story, half semi-autobiographical ode to King's wife. Lisey's deceased husband, a former best-selling novelist named Scott Landon, is certainly not Stephen King, but those familiar with King can see a lot of him in Landon. Two years after Landon's death, Lisey finds herself being stalked by a deranged lunatic, and to save herself, she must call upon help from her crazy older sister, her dead husband, the dark secrets buried with him, and her own will. The story has all the elements of a typical King novel: violence, a batshit crazy bad guy, deep character studies, literary references, and otherworldly horrors intruding into the most mundane settings. Pleasingly, Lisey \"straps it on\" as she says and deals with her enemy with resolve and courage, but the finale is just the reward at the end of the story, which is really about Lisey and her husband and their love which survives death. Lisey's Story is one of the more recent King novels, and it doesn't have the feel of his classic monster tales. I liked it, being neither my favorite nor my least favorite King novel by far, but this is one for those who enjoy King's writing; he doesn't really do anything we haven't seen before in this book. Of course, at this point it's pretty hard for King to do anything we haven't seen before. It won't disappoint his fans and it's a good read even for those who aren't huge King fans, especially if you prefer a book that's a bit lighter on spooks and gore. 3.5 stars. ...more SOME SPOLIERS, NOTHING TOO SERIOUS Garbage. Stephen King has apparently lost all of his previously considerable talent. This book reads like a mismash of about 4 of his other books (most notably coming to mind, the Stand, Rose Madder and the Dark Half) this book is absolute crap. Booya moon is boring and uninteresting (the place is pretty much a sissyfied version of the territories from the tailsman with a character actually mentioning the territories at one point), and contains an \"evil monster\" SOME SPOLIERS, NOTHING TOO SERIOUS Garbage. Stephen King has apparently lost all of his previously considerable talent. This book reads like a mismash of about 4 of his other books (most notably coming to mind, the Stand, Rose Madder and the Dark Half) this book is absolute crap. Booya moon is boring and uninteresting (the place is pretty much a sissyfied version of the territories from the tailsman with a character actually mentioning the territories at one point), and contains an \"evil monster\" who is this big worm that isnt scary in the slightest. But it only comes out at night! OOOHHHH! The other bad guy (some idiot who cuts off chicks nipples with a can opener, and is basically the prototype for shooter in the dark half; his last name is even \"shooter\"), is some bumpkin that is really menacing as he threatens this middle aged lady. The lead character Lisey, is annoying and rather flat; you really dont care about her at all, or her immediate family. There is only one section that shows a glimmer of SK's old talent (a part about Lisey's husbands crazy ass family history), but it only lasts for about 25 pages. The ending attempts to redeem some semblance of quality, but falls flat. Skip this waste of time, and reread IT or Christine ...more I gotta be honest with ya, I had a difficult time putting Lisey's Story down. I believe Stephen King himself said that LS is his attempt at romance writing- (and I clearly am paraphrasing here!) The thing is, while it is a love story and there is indeed a happily ever after ending- though certainly not in true Cinderella fashion- this is not just a story about the love between a hero and heroine, or even man and wife, as Scott and <---C>Lisey Landon</---C> were for 25 years. No, this is also a love story betw I gotta be honest with ya, I had a difficult time putting Lisey's Story down. I believe Stephen King himself said that LS is his attempt at romance writing- (and I clearly am paraphrasing here!) The thing is, while it is a love story and there is indeed a happily ever after ending- though certainly not in true Cinderella fashion- this is not just a story about the love between a hero and heroine, or even man and wife, as Scott and Lisey Landon were for 25 years. No, this is also a love story between a writer/reader and the writing craft. Muliti-faceted, layered, textured and chock full of the love of intimate language, this book will appeal to anyone who thirsts for, as King describes in his book, \"the pool\"- the \"word\" pool, the \"myth\" pool; \"\u2026the pool of life, the cup of imagination \u2026\" a place where the narrator tells us of artists who set sail out to the middle \"in their flimsy wooden boats, after the big ones.\" (And who should he include in these artist? God bless the King- Jane Austen. :::sigh::: ) In LS, \"the pool\" is an actual place in a world that the eccentric-tortured-obscenely talented-critically acclaimed-popular novelist Scott Landon visits in an alternate reality he calls, \"Boo'ya Moon\". Of course the pool is a not so subtle metaphor for the creative unconscious mind- one can never accuse King of being less than obvious- but then, sometimes I like having it spelled out for me. Sometimes it's just nice to not have to puzzle through it and think \"could it be\" But blessedly, there's no \"could it be?\" about this shining metaphor! It's out there for all to see. Oh, there is another intriguing metaphor playing out in LS as well: Scott's past is less than heartening. A brilliant child born into a family of \"gomers\" (Scott's words) and lunatics- those who suffered the \"bad-gunkys\"- he endured much abuse at the hands of his father. It was during this time he and his equally brilliant brother- who meets a less then brilliant demonically horrifying end- create the \"bool hunts\". A way of entertaining each other after their Dad's self-cutting episodes- episodes that sometimes bled onto the boys- a bool hunt is, on the surface, a scavenger hunt. But what really is a bool hunt? Well, that's for the reader to decide. (I loved the flashes of possibilities on that one!) King also writes LS with a style I've never quite seen before. Much of the background to the story is narrated through Lisey's memories- but when she actually \"goes into\" the memories, King switches to an almost 1st person narrative- while still retaining the third person pronouns- It works well. The sensation is quite like focusing a lens or being rapidly drawn closer and it pulls you into the intimacy of Lisey and Scott's life together. Although I found this book to be very entertaining, it does have it\u2019s flaws. The point of view or shifting of narrative might drive some people crazy as well as the secret language of Lisey and Scott\u2019s marriage one must decipher. But those things in and of itself are important layers to the story. In addition, through most of LS, Lisey is on a \"bool hunt\" that Scott left behind for her. If she makes it through- she gets a prize. The prize is rather anti-climatic considering all she went through (King\u2019s horror lovers will find there own prize there), but, in the end, it\u2019s as much hers and it is his- \u201cthe two that are one\u201d. For me it fit well with the rest of the story. ...more After the minor disappointment that was Blaze , I decided to pick up the copy of Lisey's Story that had been moldering on my bookshelf since we bought it during its debut week and promptly forgot about. This can be blamed on a combination of factors, the first being that I decided to allow my boyfriend to read it first, but after I finished it I couldn't help wondering why I hadn't started it earlier. Lisey's Story treads the line between the slasher-horror novels that have made up the bulk of Kin After the minor disappointment that was Blaze , I decided to pick up the copy of Lisey's Story that had been moldering on my bookshelf since we bought it during its debut week and promptly forgot about. This can be blamed on a combination of factors, the first being that I decided to allow my boyfriend to read it first, but after I finished it I couldn't help wondering why I hadn't started it earlier. Lisey's Story treads the line between the slasher-horror novels that have made up the bulk of King's writing career and his more introspective, thoughtful novels of recent years. It is a beautiful, heart-wrenching story of the famous, departed husband and the wife who was left behind. At the same time, it is also a story about the darkest places we dare not talk about for fear we will be labeled \"insane\" and the people we choose to share them with. There are subplots, of course, of Lisey's fragile sister and a madman who is a little too intent on his mission, but while these threads may meander off and never lead anywhere in some of King's novels, all of these are artfully woven into the larger picture, guiding the book to its chilling and heartbreaking conclusion. Though I did feel at one point that I was re-reading a scene or two from his much less promising Rose Madder , Lisey's Story takes it in a much more satisfying direction, almost as if the former were nothing more than a rough draft. The brief sense of deja vu did nothing to diminish my enjoyment of the book, however, and I would gladly read it again to fish hidden details out some of the smaller nooks and crannies. I positively devoured Lisey's Story and I recommend that you do the same, even if you aren't a fan of King's more lurid offerings. It is one that I truly feel will appeal to lovers of all genres. ...more note to stephen king: 'smucking' is not a pleasant word. maybe it's something your grandma used to say, but it's awfully distracting. please don't let it threaten to ruin another decent book. and i had been fooled into thinking you finally got an non-brownnosing editor. once finished: okay, so this book had some moments, but overall, it's helped me figure out what is wrong w/stephen king. i skimmed about 200 pages because they were just repetition, repetition, repetition. there were no suprises h note to stephen king: 'smucking' is not a pleasant word. maybe it's something your grandma used to say, but it's awfully distracting. please don't let it threaten to ruin another decent book. and i had been fooled into thinking you finally got an non-brownnosing editor. once finished: okay, so this book had some moments, but overall, it's helped me figure out what is wrong w/stephen king. i skimmed about 200 pages because they were just repetition, repetition, repetition. there were no suprises here, despite the fact that it is a 'different' kind of story, more about grief than about horror. and the grief was handled well and with some insight. i applaud him for trying, but why, oh why does he refuse to edit out the weak parts? he even admits this in a double-edged way in the author's note, that he doesn't really listen to his editor. it really takes away from him and ultimately exposes him as a immature writer, unwilling to grow. instead he spends a couple of paragraphs in each book insulting academia, which while often justified is really a swipe at discriminating readers. like me. like most people who don't buy their books at wal-mart or get their reviews in People. so next time i get a hankering for stephen king, i'm just going to go back to salem's lot or carrie, books that were energetic and fresh. i don't want any more excuses about why his work hasn't grown up since the 80s. but still glad i read 'cell.' ...more The last of my 12 month Stephen King reading challenge 2015. Lisey Landon's deceased ( but not yet absent) husband a haunted but famous novelist Scott Landon leaves his beloved wife with quite an eerie treasure hunt to solve after his demise. Since I've been reading King all year , it's easy to compare this to his other books old and new. This is probably the most literary of King's endeavors, with an almost \" kinder and gentler\"storyline about some ( not all) pretty likeable folks who actually The last of my 12 month Stephen King reading challenge 2015. Lisey Landon's deceased ( but not yet absent) husband a haunted but famous novelist Scott Landon leaves his beloved wife with quite an eerie treasure hunt to solve after his demise. Since I've been reading King all year , it's easy to compare this to his other books old and new. This is probably the most literary of King's endeavors, with an almost \" kinder and gentler\"storyline about some ( not all) pretty likeable folks who actually care about each other. That being said there are still pick axe attacks and the requisite monster, and some bits you will recognize from his other stories . Mostly this book deals with a man whose family has been dealt a full deck of insanity which to me is far more frightening than things that go bump in the night. Some reviews have bashed the repetitive lingo . I'm among those who won't care if I never hear the words, \"smucking \" or bool again , but I do think generally speaking people do overuse certain terms in everyday life. Enjoyed my year with King !! This was not my favorite ( vintage rereads and 11/22/63 ) or least favorite ( newer books like Blaze ) 3.5 stars ...more Warning, this review contains spoilers. \"I'll tell you something, Lisey,\" he'd said, \"novelists labor under tremendous handicaps. Reality is Ralph, showing up after three years, and no on knows why. But a novelist can't tell that story! Because it creaks a bit, old boy!\" I read Lisey's Story 9 years ago when it was first published. Sadly, I didn't really care for it. As a matter of fact, I usually tell people that it is my least favorite King novel. For me, it \"creaked\" a bit. Recently I have becom Warning, this review contains spoilers. \"I'll tell you something, Lisey,\" he'd said, \"novelists labor under tremendous handicaps. Reality is Ralph, showing up after three years, and no on knows why. But a novelist can't tell that story! Because it creaks a bit, old boy!\" I read Lisey's Story 9 years ago when it was first published. Sadly, I didn't really care for it. As a matter of fact, I usually tell people that it is my least favorite King novel. For me, it \"creaked\" a bit. Recently I have become pretty active in the bookstagram community on Instagram. In particular, I have connected with some wonderful King lovers, and last month I mentioned my dislike for the book. Now, I was already aware that this is an unpopular opinion, and that many fans love the novel. I also knew that King has proclaimed Lisey's Story as his favorite of all the books he has written. Once I made it known that I didn't really like the novel I had tons of friends urging me to give it another chance. And you know what? I'm all for second chances, because I know very well that sometimes when you read a book it just isn't the right time in your life to experience it. I jumped back into the novel at the beginning of the month as a buddy read with 3 other Instagrammers who had never read it before. I think I may have blocked entire parts of this novel, because other than a few minor details, I didn't remember much. Once again I was pretty unimpressed with the beginning of the novel. Lisey just comes off as silly and foolish. It takes time getting used to all of the sayings and phrases she shared with her deceased husband Scott. I'm not going to go into a big rehash of the plot, but Scott was a big time writer, and Lisey pretty much lived the entirety of their marriage as the woman behind the man. It's been two years since Scott passed away, and the novel is about Lisey coming to terms with his death, and how to find her place in the world now that he is gone. Also, there's a big time smucking incunk who threatens Lisey's life in order to get Scott's unpublished manuscripts. So this novel is really two things...it's a horror/fantasy novel, but more than that it's a novel about love and family. Those are themes that I didn't entirely appreciate the first time around. Also, while I thought I knew all the details about Kings terrible accident in 1999, I was unaware that Lisey's Story is a direct result of that accident. Apparently King's wife Tabitha decided to redecorate his office while he was recuperating, and at one point King visited to take a look. The office was completely empty at the time, and it immediately made King realize that he was seeing his office the way it would remain if he had died. Lisey's Story is a deeply personal novel for King, and that really changed my perception of it. So, I take back my original mediocre rating. Lisey's Story can be a bit hard to get into, but once you allow yourself to SOWISA and just enjoy the ride, this novel is a very heartfelt and endearing love story. ...more I have read 56 books by Stephen King. Those who know me, know that I am a huge fan and that he has been an inspiration to me through the years. Maybe I am biased (I don't think so, I just believe he is a fantastic writer/story-teller...possibly the best of my generation) but of those 56 books I have read, I have never rated one less than 3 stars. I came very close this time. As the story wound toward its end I finally started to feel the vintage King pouring forth. Problem was, it came a little t I have read 56 books by Stephen King. Those who know me, know that I am a huge fan and that he has been an inspiration to me through the years. Maybe I am biased (I don't think so, I just believe he is a fantastic writer/story-teller...possibly the best of my generation) but of those 56 books I have read, I have never rated one less than 3 stars. I came very close this time. As the story wound toward its end I finally started to feel the vintage King pouring forth. Problem was, it came a little too late to shake off my disappointment of the first half. I noticed the dedication to his wife, Tabitha, so as I trudged through the beginning I thought, okay,this must be his idea of some romanticized, personal rendering in honor of his wife...this is not going to be a classic King horror. Well, I was wrong! I will admit this; the story, though not the usual, was still brilliantly written and pulled me into a world that weaved itself from a contemporary romance into a world of bizarre fantasy. The reason for my 3 star rating is because brilliantly written or not, the first half of the story continuously lulled me into boredom. Yes, there was a lead up to some masterful horror, and the story was good as a whole, but the first 250 pages are not the kind of writing that made me a fan. Ah well, even Babe Ruth didn't hit a home-run every time he came to the plate. (But you damn sure expected him to!)[That's right, Stephen...I just compared you to the Babe! ;) ] ...more Lisey's Story will probably be viewed in years to come as one of King's more important books, if for no other reason than it is his most personal one. King accomplishes this, interestingly, primarily through the memories and voice of Lisey Landon, the wife of recently deceased literary icon. Lisey is of course a fictional character, but it's not too far a stretch to see Lisey as something of a stand-in for King's own wife (and her sisters - as the author concedes in an endnote to the novel), and Lisey's Story will probably be viewed in years to come as one of King's more important books, if for no other reason than it is his most personal one. King accomplishes this, interestingly, primarily through the memories and voice of Lisey Landon, the wife of recently deceased literary icon. Lisey is of course a fictional character, but it's not too far a stretch to see Lisey as something of a stand-in for King's own wife (and her sisters - as the author concedes in an endnote to the novel), and that the book operates at least on one level (and it has many levels) as a Valentine to his beloved. As a result, Lisey's Story is being called by many a love story, with some elements of horror (or more accurately, dark fantasy). And that is true, but I think King meant it to be something more than that. Lisey's Story is also the author's meditation on Life, his life. And under that umbrella you will find further meditations on the writing life, celebrityhood (and its dangers ), love, grief, and family. King has called himself a romantic, and Lisey's Story is an elaboration on that sentiment. But King is also a rebel, and for some time now King has been insisting that the walls between genre fiction and \"serious fiction\" are artificial, and that authors such as Elmore Leonard, Peter Straub, and others, be considered when it comes to the various book awards. I feel he has an argument. Just look at Cormac McCarthy, who has just penned a couple of genre-like efforts (the drug war holocaust, No Country for Old Men , and the end of the world masterpiece, The Road ). To underscore this, King utilizes a modernist literary device - stream of consciousness - as Lisey relives her past with her husband Scott, in reveries that emerge, seamlessly, with the present. I think King handles this very well, but it will not make for an easy read, at least initially, but be patient. The fantastic side of the story also mixes well. In fact, King's deliberate pace seems to earn the appearance of Scott Landon's imaginative haven Boo\u00fda Moon (which reminded me, more than a bit, of Arthur Machen's nightmarish dreamscape in \u201cThe White People\u201d). By the time we as readers enter this sometime terrifying Eden, a context has been established, through character development and personal history. There is of course a significant thread of darkness throughout the novel, but ultimately Lisey's Story is about a life, filled with both light and dark, that in proves to be a well-lived one. I've been reading King since the late 70s ( Salem's Lot being my first), and after all these years, he seems like an old friend. With Lisey's Story , I can say quite comfortably, well done, old friend. ...more \"I loved you then and I love you now and I have loved you every second in between.\" This is a book about Lisey Landon, the widow of a famous author, Scott Landon. There are two main stories within the book - that of Lisey's story in the present, and that of her dead husband's life. Lisey is clearing out her husband's writing space in their home which leads to a series of events that force her to recall memories and realities about her late husband. I loved this book. And I mean LOVED it. Initiall \"I loved you then and I love you now and I have loved you every second in between.\" This is a book about Lisey Landon, the widow of a famous author, Scott Landon. There are two main stories within the book - that of Lisey's story in the present, and that of her dead husband's life. Lisey is clearing out her husband's writing space in their home which leads to a series of events that force her to recall memories and realities about her late husband. I loved this book. And I mean LOVED it. Initially, I found it quite hard to get into, but I kept at it and it has really paid off. For me, it hits close to home. The messages it sends about grief and getting over the loss of a loved one really rang true for myself. So many parts of the book just caused me to reread the same section over and over, finding comfort in the fact that we all experience those same feelings. \"Sometimes she'd go a whole day without thinking of him or missing him. Why not? She had quite a full life, and really, he'd often been hard to deal with and hard to live with. A project, the Yankee old times like her very own Dad might have said. And then sometimes a day would come, a gray one (or a sunny one) when she missed him so fiercely she felt empty, not a woman at all anymore but just a dead tree filled with cold November blow. She felt like that now, felt like hollering his name and hollering him home, and her heart turned sick with the thought of the years ahead and she wondered what good love was if it came to this, to even ten seconds of feeling like this.\" It also speaks strongly about marriage, and the emotional complexities that make up a long marriage. At times it felt like I wasn't sure if Lisey and Scott even liked each other, but this often appears to be the case with marriage - it's not all sunshine and rainbows. Their love was still there and their love was strong. The snippets into Scott's childhood were another highlight. Harrowing and heartfelt and heartbreaking and scary... The relationship between him and his father and his brother was so well written. I felt so emotionally invested in these parts of the story. It's an odd book in that it seems that King fans either love this book or hate it, and thankfully I am one of the former. This has been a true pleasure. I already can't wait to reread this one. ...more What frustrates me SO MUCH about Stephen King is this: he writes so effortlessly well that, with a little more effort, he could write really good books. But, he doesn't seem to test his limits, nor does he seem to edit much. This book displays all that I love and hate about Stephen King. Lisey and her late husband, along with several peripheral characters, are well developed and interesting. Revealing inner dialogue, vivid scenes and tense moments are all over the place. But. In most of King's b What frustrates me SO MUCH about Stephen King is this: he writes so effortlessly well that, with a little more effort, he could write really good books. But, he doesn't seem to test his limits, nor does he seem to edit much. This book displays all that I love and hate about Stephen King. Lisey and her late husband, along with several peripheral characters, are well developed and interesting. Revealing inner dialogue, vivid scenes and tense moments are all over the place. But. In most of King's books the main character is a goddamned writer who lives in Maine. This time, the main character is the WIFE of a goddamned writer who lives in Maine, and much of the book is made up of flashbacks to times she had with her husband, and details of what it was like for this Maine writer. Umm, yes, Stephen King is a writer who lives in Maine, if you were curious. Lisey's Story has all the elements necessary to make a brilliant story about a woman coping with the loss of her husband, and finding her new identity after this loss. There's added complexity here because she's also coping with how the public eye has treated her throughout her husband's fame. That aspect of the book is pure gold. But, King keeps adding supernatural and corny plots that distract from this dramatic aspect of the story, stealing some ideas almost directly from \"Secret Window, Secret Garden,\" and adding people who aren't quite human, an alternate reality, a lackluster stalker, and other Stephen King stand-by's, and you end up with a clusterfuck of plot elements that just don't jive. Like much of King's catalogue, he shows promise, and then gets too cheesy. The first hundred pages are terrific. The end of the book is surprising and very strong. But, much of the middle feels unsurprising and rerun-ish. ...more", "Title": "Lisey's Story"},
