{"Comments": "One of the great things about living in New York City was the parties. Most parties had a pretty broad spectrum of people in attendance; still, finding interesting (<---B>and fun</---B>) people to talk to always presented a challenge (nowadays, I just log onto Goodreads). Examples: Incoherent punk musician who hasn\u2019t slept or taken a shower in,<---M> I\u2019m guessing</---M>, three days. Wall Street type who rhapsodizes about hedge funds for 20 minute and whose enthusiasm soon becomes sandpaper on my brain. Surgeons who describe One of the great things about living in New York City was the parties. Most parties had a pretty broad spectrum of people in attendance; still, finding interesting (and fun) people to talk to always presented a challenge (nowadays, I just log onto Goodreads). Examples: Incoherent punk musician who hasn\u2019t slept or taken a shower in, I\u2019m guessing, three days. Wall Street type who rhapsodizes about hedge funds for 20 minute and whose enthusiasm soon becomes sandpaper on my brain. Surgeons who describe their latest procedure in detail. I think I\u2019ll pass on those stuffed mushrooms and mini hotdogs, thanks. Cute Flight Attendant who constantly complains about her layover in (insert foreign city here). She usually leaves with the incoherent punk musician. Which brings me to <---A>Sarah Vowell</---A>, (finally!) someone I would have loved to hang out with. Here\u2019s someone who not only can articulate about almost anything, but is witty as well. Anyone who can make a history of the Puritans interesting and funny is first rate in my book. Kudos for weaving such diverse things as the Brady Bunch, Whitney Houston and Bruce Springsteen into her enlightening and entertaining narrative. Random thoughts: John Winthrop, first governor of Massachusetts Colony, had some guy\u2019s ears cut off as punishment. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, but an ear for being a loudmouth? Roger Williams, who founded Rhode Island, and Anne Hutchinson, who rocked the boat on the whole Protestant belief thing, were significant in Puritan circles and as people who laid the ground work for future American ideas, but were both banned because they just didn\u2019t know when to be quiet.<---F> Not big at Puritan parties either</---F>. The Pequot War was a template for Indian massacres for centuries. \u201cWe\u2019re outgunned, so let\u2019s sneak up on the Indian fort and burn it and its inhabitants to the ground.\u201d Definitely on the lookout for more from Sarah Vowell. ...more This Sarah Vowell book about the Puritans in 17th century New England is perhaps her most Sarah Vowell-ian work. By that I mean, it's interesting but meandering, it's humorous but it's dense, it's historical but also modern. Much of the book focuses on John Winthrop, the governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Vowell said she was interested in Winthrop and his shipmates in the 1630s because \"the country I live in is haunted by the Puritans' vision of themselves as God's chosen people, as a beac This Sarah Vowell book about the Puritans in 17th century New England is perhaps her most Sarah Vowell-ian work. By that I mean, it's interesting but meandering, it's humorous but it's dense, it's historical but also modern. Much of the book focuses on John Winthrop, the governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Vowell said she was interested in Winthrop and his shipmates in the 1630s because \"the country I live in is haunted by the Puritans' vision of themselves as God's chosen people, as a beacon of righteousness that all others are to admire. The most obvious and influential example of that mind-set is John Winthrop's sermon 'A Model of Christian Charity,' in which he calls on New England to be 'as a city upon a hill.'\" (That phrase \"city upon a hill\" originally came from Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, and politicians have been borrowing it ever since. John F. Kennedy used it in 1961, and Ronald Reagan appropriated it in 1984. I'm excited to see who uses it next!) I enjoyed most of <+++>The Wordy Shipmates</+++> , but also found a few parts dull or silly. For example, I thought too much space was devoted to an episode of the TV show \"The Brady Bunch\" that depicted the Pilgrims. My favorite section was about Anne Hutchinson, a woman whose strong religious beliefs got her banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The colony leaders were so freaked out by Anne that they decided to found Harvard College so they could better control what ministers taught. (You go, girl!) Another interesting section was on the Pequot War (1636-1638), which was between the English colonists and some Native American allies, the Narragansett and Mohegan: \"The Pequot War is a pure war. And by pure I don't mean good. I mean it is war straight up, a war set off by murder and vengeance and fueled by misunderstanding, jealousy, hatred, stupidity, racism, lust for power, lust for land, and most of all, greed, all of it headed toward a climax of slaughter. The English are diabolical. The Narragansett and the Mohegan are willing accomplices. The Pequot commit distasteful acts of violence and are clueless as to just how vindictive the English can be when provoked. Which is to say that there's no one to root for. Well, one could root for Pequot babies not to be burned alive, but I wouldn't get my hopes up.\" That paragraph is an example of what Sarah Vowell does best \u2014 she provides history, context, commentary and humor in one nice little bundle. I listened to this on audio, which I've learned is the best way to experience a Sarah Vowell book, and it had a great cast of characters, including Campbell Scott, Peter Dinklage, John Oliver, Catherine Keener and John Slattery. I had tried to read the print before but couldn't get into it, and I'm glad I found an audio copy. Recommended for American history fans who have a sense of humor and who don't mind circuitous storytelling. ...more Okay, here goes: I\u2019m torn on <+++>The Wordy Shipmates</+++> . I\u2019m still a relative newbie to Sarah Vowell. With Assassination Vacation , I had that new love vibe going on. All that gushy \u2018You\u2019re so awesome, I\u2019m so glad that I found you, where have you been all my life\u2019 feeling. With The Partly Cloudy Patriot , I moved to that next step in a relationship, where you start to learn about the person and some of it reminds you why you fell in love and then sometimes it\u2019s all like \u2018My God , you can stop talking now. Okay, here goes: I\u2019m torn on The Wordy Shipmates . I\u2019m still a relative newbie to Sarah Vowell. With Assassination Vacation , I had that new love vibe going on. All that gushy \u2018You\u2019re so awesome, I\u2019m so glad that I found you, where have you been all my life\u2019 feeling. With The Partly Cloudy Patriot , I moved to that next step in a relationship, where you start to learn about the person and some of it reminds you why you fell in love and then sometimes it\u2019s all like \u2018My God , you can stop talking now. I know enough about your weird ass family, thankyouverymuch.\u2019 But the love is still there. So, this is my third venture---I realize I\u2019m missing out on the early years\u2014I\u2019ll get around to it, promise. Initially, I was pleased as punch (??) I thought \u2018WHOO!! NEW ENGLAND!! WHOO!!\u2019 because, if you know anything about me, you know that I am a self-proclaimed New England elitist. I\u2019ve lived my entire life here, save a few years in my early 20s when I thought to venture a wee bit south. I have learned that I cannot function outside of it. (Bear with my N.E. rant for a moment) I find that when I leave New England that people are so SLOW. They walk slow, talk slow, and are TOO laid back.. c\u2019mon people! Where\u2019s the urgency?!? We\u2019re movers! We\u2019re founders! WE ROCK. We\u2019ve given the world Stephen King, Harvard, Larry Bird and that guy from the Patriots. Ben & Jerry\u2019s and Robert Frost. Think about Aerosmith and Boston Cr\u00e8me Pie, think johnny cakes, the Farrelly Brothers, Arthur Miller, and Noah-freaking-Webster. Yeah, we\u2019re pretty awesome. So, anyway\u2026 I was super excited to discover that Sarah\u2019s (yes, she is Sarah to me, what of it?) new book was based on the Puritans settling down in what will be New England in the 1630\u2019s. I spent my formative years in Boston\u2026 I followed that red line up and down Tremont and walked the cobblestoned streets of Beacon Hill. I got a really bad perm in Charleston and saw my first Rocky Horror show in Harvard Square. This was home . Yeah, so, it starts off with this great part about John Cotton\u2019s speech to the Puritans about to set sail to Boston. It\u2019s all \u2018Rah! Rah! Yay God! Go forth and spread the Word!\u2019\u2014it\u2019s pure Vowell from page one: \u2019By the time Cotton says amen, he has fought Mexico for Texas, bought Alaska from the Russians, and dropped napalm on Vietnam. Then he lays a wreath on Custer\u2019s grave and revs past Wounded Knee. Then he claps when the Marquis de Lafayette tells Congress that \u2018someday America will save the world.\u201d Then he smiles when Abraham Lincoln calls the United States \u201cthe last best hope of earth.\u201d Then he frees Cuba, which would be news to Cuba. Then he signs the lease on Guantanamo Bay.\u2019 Then there\u2019s the City on a Hill speech of John Winthop\u2019s, which further solidifies how awesome we New Englanders are. And the whole Reagan comparison (vintage Vowell) which Shelly does a great job going into in her review . I\u2019m practically weeping because I\u2019m so happy. Then\u2026well\u2026umm\u2026 I got bored. (sorta like you guys are, if you\u2019re still reading this, right?) I\u2019m sorry, there\u2019s only so much Puritanical Speak I can handle before I start to fade. Maybe I get sidetracked when she mentions the Brady Bunch Thanksgiving episode and decide to watch TVLand for a bit\u2026 Maybe I nap\u2026 who knows? It takes a month before I can get through this and I\u2019m about to give up, admit my lack of retaining anything that isn\u2019t shiny or produced by Norman Lear (who\u2019s from CT\u2026 awesome .) When she starts in on Anne Hutchinson; then I\u2019m back in the game. Her passages re: Anne and Mary Dyer are wonderful. And I\u2019m not just oohing and ahhing because \u2018Yo! Women Rule!\u2019 or anything (okay, maybe just a little\u2026) I think that Sarah does a great job with her interpretation of Anne\u2019s trial. And the banter between Winthrop and Hutchinson. (Genealogy buffs might enjoy learning that this lopsided battle of the wits will be repeated between Winthrop and Hutchinson\u2019s descendents during the presidential debates of 2004. Winthrop\u2019s heir, John Kerry, debates Hutchinson\u2019s great-something grandson, George W. Bush. Only in this instance it\u2019s the Hutchinson who is flummoxed by his opponent\u2019s sensical answers. Bush\u2019s constant blinking appears on television as if he thinks the answers to the questions he\u2019s being asked are tattooed inside his eyelids.) I\u2019m definitely pleased that I stuck it out. Especially when I get to the last 4 pages when she talks about Kennedy and brings it all back to Winthrop\u2019s City on the Hill speech: \u2019Then [Kennedy:] boils down the two phrases from \u201cA Model of Christian Charity\u201d that mean the most to him: \u2018We must always consider, [Winthrop:] said, that we shall be as a city upon a hill. That eyes of all people are upon us.\u2019 I fall for those words every time I hear them, even though they\u2019re dangerous, even though they\u2019re arrogant, even though they\u2019re rude.\u2019 Because, yeah, we New Englanders are proud (and sometimes rude.) And even if we sprout from crazed religious fervors that you know lead to gossipy hormonal teens like Winona Ryder to accuse Joan Allen and have her burned at the stake all for Daniel Day Lewis\u2026 we\u2019re still cool. ...more I can hardly believe that I'm going to write these words: I did not enjoy The Wordy Shipmates. Anyone who knows me and my love of Sarah Vowell will be *shocked* by this, as am I. But that fact remains that I found it boring. A slog. Too totally Puritanical. I know what she was attempting to do - put a human face on the Puritans who founded the Massachusetts Bay Colony, draw parallels to our modern evangelical (is that phrase an oxymoron?) Christian country, and make sharp distinctions between th I can hardly believe that I'm going to write these words: I did not enjoy The Wordy Shipmates. Anyone who knows me and my love of Sarah Vowell will be *shocked* by this, as am I. But that fact remains that I found it boring. A slog. Too totally Puritanical. I know what she was attempting to do - put a human face on the Puritans who founded the Massachusetts Bay Colony, draw parallels to our modern evangelical (is that phrase an oxymoron?) Christian country, and make sharp distinctions between the groups when appropriate (newsflash: even Puritans valued reading and learning, folks). But she gets so bogged down in telling the life stories of so many characters that it's hard to stay focused on her point. Which she only returns to every 50 pages when she comes up for air from the biography of, say, Henry Vane. I know, I don't know who that is either. To me, Vowell is at her best when she weaves her own story and outlook on modern day America with the forgotten history of this country. The Wordy Shipmates, however, is essentially the re-telling of forgotten history with maybe six paragraphs of her analysis inserted randomly throughout it's 254 pages. This isn't NEARLY enough Sarah Vowell for me. So I leave the book dissatisfied. One bright spot: I learned that the Hutchison Parkway heading into NYC through the boroughs is names after a rather feisty Puritan named Anne Hutchison who was banished from the Bay Colony because she questioned beliefs of the church. At least I can think about that next time I'm in traffic... ...more To love me is to know me, and to know me, is to know that I love Sarah Vowell. I think it was my good friend Kelsey who said, \"You have to read this book!\" She was talking about Take the Cannoli . I read it, and I loved it. Then I read Partly Cloudy Patriot , and loved it as well. I listened to This American Life almost religiously in the hopes of hearing one of her radio essays. So when I heard her read a snippet of The Wordy Shipmates on This American Life a couple of years ago- I nearly drove To love me is to know me, and to know me, is to know that I love Sarah Vowell. I think it was my good friend Kelsey who said, \"You have to read this book!\" She was talking about Take the Cannoli . I read it, and I loved it. Then I read Partly Cloudy Patriot , and loved it as well. I listened to This American Life almost religiously in the hopes of hearing one of her radio essays. So when I heard her read a snippet of The Wordy Shipmates on This American Life a couple of years ago- I nearly drove off the road. A new Sarah Vowell book? I'm in, sign me up! But it turns out the book was still a year away from being published at the time. Sadness abounded. But finally it came out, and there I was in a first run bookstore (I work for a used bookstore- so it takes a lot for me to buy a book at full price- $20 for a book?? no way- okay, well maybe if it's a book I really wanted to read). So, The Wordy Shipmates... I enjoyed it- though, and oh how it pains me to say this, not as much as I enjoyed her other books. Here's the dealio- I think Sarah Vowell is stupendous at the essay- but when she has to carry out a thesis for more than 20 pages, well, the waters get a bit murky. I read some reviews for this book on Amazon (and I must say reading Amazon reviews is awesome. The worlds biggest internet bullies write Amazon.com review reviews. I swear every third comment on a review is, \"Did you even read the book?\" and then there's name calling, and I'm sure someone ends up crying behind their laptop- and I'm sure that person wears glasses and never played any sport) and a big complaint I read over and over is how Vowell tried to link the Puritans self righteousness to the former administrations apparent need to police the world. Stuffy conservatives who wear bow ties and suspenders may have a problem with this- and I'm not sure I'm convinced by her arguments either. Still I was able to glean other things from the book. So the book is about the trials and tribulations of those wacky Puritan pilgrims that came over to our now fair country and set the seeds for what would become America. There were cold winters, and Dutchmen, and the French, and of course the Indians, well, Native Americans. The zealot Puritans had their own zealots to put up with, which caused for hi jinks and death, very cold bloody death. But what the book does nail home, at least for me, is the immense obstacles that these Puritans went through just so they could sit together and talk about how great they were in the eyes of the Lord. Which sounds more facetious than I mean it to be (which I guess proves I've been reading Sarah Vowell) I have a genuine admiration for these guys who believed so much in something that they traveled over an ocean to start up a new life in a foreign land. I have a difficult time driving to work in the morning. I don't like going more than a couple of days without watching something my DVR has recorded. I like sleeping on a bed, and taking a shower, and pooping in a toilet that flushes. I could not have traveled across the ocean, for God. I don't really go to church. I don't even like water. But I like the idea that there were people- maybe slightly crazy people, that were willing to do that, just cause it seemed like the thing to do. I think that's neat. ...more I think it's funny how there's always a moment during a Sarah Vowell book where I go, 'oh yeah! She just writes american history!' It came pretty early on in this one, too. This is not my favorite of her books. It's a lot more american history, and a lot less Sarah Vowell being a smartass about american history, than I prefer. I mean, I was into it, and I finished it, and I kept all the Puritans whose names begin with Ws straight, but I don't know. The whole appeal of Sarah Vowell for me is not I think it's funny how there's always a moment during a Sarah Vowell book where I go, 'oh yeah! She just writes american history!' It came pretty early on in this one, too. This is not my favorite of her books. It's a lot more american history, and a lot less Sarah Vowell being a smartass about american history, than I prefer. I mean, I was into it, and I finished it, and I kept all the Puritans whose names begin with Ws straight, but I don't know. The whole appeal of Sarah Vowell for me is not that she makes american history accessible, it's that she uses american history as a vehicle for, y'know, talking about other stuff. Like the Brady Bunch, and her nephew's martial-arts inspired interpretive dancing, that sort of stuff. Which all was in here, just y'know. Not as much as explanations of pamphlet wars in 1640. And I mean to her credit I followed what she was talking about in the pamphlet wars! I zone out pretty easily, and all I really like is the Cloverfield Monster, blastbeats and cussing. So I think she succeeded and all, she's just not the kind of writer i connect with in a five-star kinda way. Also, I guess it felt a little unfocused to me? Like, posterity will probably show me to be wrong when I read more reviews of it, but there was a thread of 'this fucked up place where we are in american history right now? We got here DIRECTLY from our roots in these people' that I would've liked to see fleshed out more- which would have involved, again, more Sarah Vowell talking about these modern times in our lives. Y'know? I like typing \"Sarah Vowell\" over and over like the way the RZA says \"Bill Murray\" in \"Coffee & Cigarettes.\" Right Sarah Vowell? Anyway yeah. My point is, I was interested, I was engaged, but ultimately, this is an American History book with a little meta smartass commentary. I want more meta smartass commentary from you, Sarah Vowell! There were whole paragraphs where you didn't even mock any of these old timey people. ... Oh also I like the part where she's like, 'Anne Hutchinson incriminated herself because she didn't know when to shut the fuck up. Like me!' Because I can relate too. .... OH AND ANOTHER THING! She makes fun of whatsisname for arguing that Christianity fell off around the time of Constantine, but whatsisname was kind of right. I mean, Constantine was the one who took 'turn the other cheek' and turned it into an official religion or a state, to justify wars and stuff. Hasn't she read Mark Kurlansky 's book about nonviolence? Oh, right, nobody read that book. ...more This book took a while to get going for me. There was a lot of meandering prose, detours, and tangents, and honestly, I began to doubt my love for Sarah Vowell: Don't her books always seem just a wee bit better in retrospect than they do when I'm actually reading them, I wondered? Possibly, but thankfully this book did eventually pick up, and the narrative became more linear, which worked better for me. Honestly, my American history education has been woefully inadequate, so I was happy to get b This book took a while to get going for me. There was a lot of meandering prose, detours, and tangents, and honestly, I began to doubt my love for Sarah Vowell: Don't her books always seem just a wee bit better in retrospect than they do when I'm actually reading them, I wondered? Possibly, but thankfully this book did eventually pick up, and the narrative became more linear, which worked better for me. Honestly, my American history education has been woefully inadequate, so I was happy to get beyond the broader picture of the pilgrims' progress and into the details, and I love New England so learning about how the various colonies/cities were founded was fascinating to me. Plus Sarah Vowell is always good at drawing parallels with the present day, which are instructive, interesting, and depressing all at once. After this I'm very excited to read Lafayette in the Somewhat United States , although I already own Unfamiliar Fishes so that will probably be next. ...more I love Sarah Vowell. There's no other way to put it. This book is a perfect blend of historical essay and pop culture lit. Vowell's take on the Puritan Massachusetts Bay colony and Governor John Winthrop shows the \"shining city on the hill\" ideal as the Puritans saw it; which is not quite the way that Ronald Reagan meant it when he co-opted the phrase in the 1980's. Vowell is one of the few authors in the world today who can tie the two visions together and show how the people we are today can r I love Sarah Vowell. There's no other way to put it. This book is a perfect blend of historical essay and pop culture lit. Vowell's take on the Puritan Massachusetts Bay colony and Governor John Winthrop shows the \"shining city on the hill\" ideal as the Puritans saw it; which is not quite the way that Ronald Reagan meant it when he co-opted the phrase in the 1980's. Vowell is one of the few authors in the world today who can tie the two visions together and show how the people we are today can relate to the group of folks who left England in 1630 to start anew. This book I recommend to just about everybody who wants to understand modern day America and the history of the Massachusetts colony. 5, nay 6, stars (out of 5). ...more Sarah Vowell's quirky 12 year old voice almost requires me to read her books in audio form. This is the second book of Vowell's I've purchased in audio format, and beyond some of the glitches (damn you iTunes!) it's the preferred way to go. This book is probably the driest thing I've ever read by Vowell. Normally her The American Life bits and her previous books are a lot more anecdote-heavy, which was always a major selling point. She has a knack for taking some really diverse topics and relatin Sarah Vowell's quirky 12 year old voice almost requires me to read her books in audio form. This is the second book of Vowell's I've purchased in audio format, and beyond some of the glitches (damn you iTunes!) it's the preferred way to go. This book is probably the driest thing I've ever read by Vowell. Normally her The American Life bits and her previous books are a lot more anecdote-heavy, which was always a major selling point. She has a knack for taking some really diverse topics and relating them to some surprisingly touching personal stories. There's still some of that here, like her describing her nephew's argument with an unusually dedicated Pilgrim reenactment actor, but they're spread out a lot farther than usual. The historical data is hot and heavy here, sometimes to the detriment of overall enjoyment. There are a lot of insights to be found in her discussion of the Puritans, who were generally portrayed as cartoonish zealots in most historical portrayals. Vowell actually finds a lot to be admired in ideological convictions even while being disturbed by their extremism and bouts of hypocrisy. For me it was a little off-putting to hear major characters performed by Daily Show players like John Hodgeman and John Oliver, and occasionally these bits are awkwardly shoe horned into the flow of the narrative, but it doesn't come up enough to be truly distracting. Well worth reading if you're into history with a humorous edge. ...more I chose to read this book immediately after reading The Winthrop Woman because Vowell's topic was the Massachusetts Bay Colony in the same era. I had hoped to learn more about the history of those days. I did, in a way, but Ms. Vowell's points were usually hidden among attempts to be clever, and I tired quickly of sorting through such chaff to find the wheat. Is there truly a need to quote Monty Python regarding King Charles I? That sentence, on page 219 of my edition, ruined the erudite point M I chose to read this book immediately after reading The Winthrop Woman because Vowell's topic was the Massachusetts Bay Colony in the same era. I had hoped to learn more about the history of those days. I did, in a way, but Ms. Vowell's points were usually hidden among attempts to be clever, and I tired quickly of sorting through such chaff to find the wheat. Is there truly a need to quote Monty Python regarding King Charles I? That sentence, on page 219 of my edition, ruined the erudite point Ms. Vowell had been working towards. But even with saying that, I did learn more about the history of those days than I ever did in school, and I was saddened to see that her own nephew had no more formal knowledge of the Puritans and their legacy than I had been given 50 years ago. ...more 2 stars - Meh. Just ok. I jumped into this book with hopes it would enhance my recent trip to Boston and the surrounding New England area. Sadly, this was not nearly as interesting as I thought it would be, and as I trudged through it I kept wondering when the fascinating things would appear. This was the second book I have read by Vowell and this one came across as more amateurish in writing quality. Her professionalism as an author has grown noticeably in the nine years between this book and, L 2 stars - Meh. Just ok. I jumped into this book with hopes it would enhance my recent trip to Boston and the surrounding New England area. Sadly, this was not nearly as interesting as I thought it would be, and as I trudged through it I kept wondering when the fascinating things would appear. This was the second book I have read by Vowell and this one came across as more amateurish in writing quality. Her professionalism as an author has grown noticeably in the nine years between this book and, Lafayette in the Somewhat United States . A heavy handed editor would have gone a long way with improving this one, by cutting out most of the distracting, unrelated injections and excessive mundane details. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: Behind every bad law, a deep fear. First Sentence: The only thing more dangerous than an idea is a belief. ...more You never really learn much about the history of the American colonies post-thanksgiving through pre-Salem witch trials. This book fills that gap. I think the most provocative thing about this book is how puritan culture still permeates through-out the American Psyche to this day. Much of American attitudes and culture were all founded upon the principles that governed the lives of those original founders. This influence can be felt in how Americans view many issues ranging from gay marriage to You never really learn much about the history of the American colonies post-thanksgiving through pre-Salem witch trials. This book fills that gap. I think the most provocative thing about this book is how puritan culture still permeates through-out the American Psyche to this day. Much of American attitudes and culture were all founded upon the principles that governed the lives of those original founders. This influence can be felt in how Americans view many issues ranging from gay marriage to US Foreign Policy. I have also come to the personal conclusion that these original religious pilgrims are the source of Americans' obsession with everything in life being a drama. With their poetic biblical prose of destruction, retribution, justice and redemption it is no wonder our News Media has continued this long tradition of fear-mongering. It is both profitable and a powerful way to influence others when reasoning or logic fail you. ...more In The Wordy Shipmates Ms. Vowell half, or maybe three-quarters, succeeds with the transformation from memoirist with a history bend to a historian who occasionally injects her own story into the text. Vowell comes off like a particularly accessible high school teacher giving a series of lectures on early American history. She works hard to enliven the past and connect the implications to the modern world. Her passion for the subject is apparent, but I could have used more conventional historica In The Wordy Shipmates Ms. Vowell half, or maybe three-quarters, succeeds with the transformation from memoirist with a history bend to a historian who occasionally injects her own story into the text. Vowell comes off like a particularly accessible high school teacher giving a series of lectures on early American history. She works hard to enliven the past and connect the implications to the modern world. Her passion for the subject is apparent, but I could have used more conventional historical text organization, e.g. chapters, a glossary of names, etc. There were times when I had a hard time keeping the narrative thread straight. Still, I liked the book, and I think Vowell has a bright future with this type of approach...her books have never let me down. ...more We don\u2019t have a problem yet Sarah. But I am working on one. I am finding myself reading entire novels in-between your chapters. We\u2019re still lovers\u2014but I need to let you know I am seeing other people. I hope the passion resurrects but your expedition into the realm of Puritanism is leaving me limp in the brain. I won\u2019t give up. Yet. Old stuff: Sarah was on The Daily Show again the other night hawking the arrival of her latest in paperback. And as Jon pointed out\u2014it\u2019s the same book she promoted on We don\u2019t have a problem yet Sarah. But I am working on one. I am finding myself reading entire novels in-between your chapters. We\u2019re still lovers\u2014but I need to let you know I am seeing other people. I hope the passion resurrects but your expedition into the realm of Puritanism is leaving me limp in the brain. I won\u2019t give up. Yet. Old stuff: Sarah was on The Daily Show again the other night hawking the arrival of her latest in paperback. And as Jon pointed out\u2014it\u2019s the same book she promoted on the show eight months ago, only lighter. I love it when she is on only because she is not an awkward guest and clearly gets the humor. She\u2019s one of the few to give it right back when snarkasm comes fluttering her way. I remember the comments when the book first came out. \u201cIt\u2019s a difficult read.\u201d Stewart said he had a hard time getting through it. I skimmed some of the Goodreads comments and that seems to be the consensus. I guess that is why I waited for the paperback to come out. Oh well. Sarah can do no wrong. How thorny can it be? I\u2019ll let you know. This is not a review. I just bought the book a couple hours ago\u2014geez\u2014but I need to vent about the bookstore. Again. I don\u2019t have a neighborhood bookstore. There are two\u2014Books a Million and B&N\u2014each approximately fifteen miles from home. Not a big deal, but still, I have to make the drive. BaM is closer by half a mile so I went there first. I just wanted to pick up Sarahs book and leave. Now, I have had problems with this store since day one. It is much larger than the B&N so I should be happier but the friggin place is laid out like a gorgon\u2019s den. Nothing is where it should be, fiction is listed buy author and then mysteriously around M or N switches to Alpha by Title. What? I\u2019m serious\u2014there are no more authors past P? The poetry section is two shelves. The longest aisle dead ends. I asked a staff person what the building was before a bookstore. When told it was built for BaM I then questioned why the longest aisle in the store has no outlet\u2014only to be met with a laugh and \u201cYah, we all wonder about that.\u201d I checked the \u2018new releases\u2019 rack in the front hoping Sarah would be there. Nope. I was fortunate a while ago to have found the one shelf containing essays at the end of the massive Science Fiction section so I knew where to look next. Nah, there was one copy of \u2018Assassination Vacation\u2019 and nothing else. BaM does not have a computer for the unworthy so I couldn\u2019t look up the title and hopefully procure a map to the hidden treasure. No, instead I had to slink over to the Customer Service Desk and wait. I am not sure if all the Books a Million go out of their way to hire the least qualified and highest rated staff on the lazy scale, but this particular store should be a universal case study for those wishing to create the ultimate \u2018f*ck you\u2019 atmosphere. On the We Could Give a Rats Ass scale, they are a 10. One of the Collect a Paycheck for Doing Nothing team members was fondling books on the table marked \u2018This is All the Shit We Can\u2019t Sell.\u2019 We made eye contact. By this point I was leaning on the Customer Service Desk contemplating taking a nap. I literally put my elbows on the counter, placed me head in my hands and closed my eyes when the languid employee opted to continue molesting one of the fifty copies of \u2018Hitler\u2019s Cookbook\u2019 instead of walking over to the desk. I thought about leaving\u2014then thought, no, I want to see how long this will take. Not long actually, but not satisfying either. An assistant-manager (why always an assistant, are there really no managers in these places?) came flying up to the counter, and almost as fast, the instantly-sangfroid staff member flew to her side. Now I had two people wondering if I needed help. No no, I come in here just to stand at the desk. It\u2019s my favorite thing to do. That, and snack on the clumps from the kitty litter box. With mutant superspeed the assistant manager vanished and I was left with my X-men reject, whom I could tell really knew his way around the computer. My request was simple\u2014just tell me where \u2018Wordy Shipmates\u2019 is located in the store. Don\u2019t worry, you don\u2019t have to take me there\u2014just POINT\u2014I\u2019ll find it eventually. I am accent free and enunciate my words clearly. I held my breath for a moment when told no \u2018Worthy Shipmates\u2019 appeared on the magic BaM search engine. \u2018Wordy.\u2019 I spelled it. Ok that\u2019s an easy mistake. But the guy with the magic terminal began to frown and shake his head. For dramatic effect he pretended to be searching other programs. I finally said \u201cwhat?\u201d Of course I knew the next words out of his mouth. \u201cWe don\u2019t have it in stock but we can order it for you. It should be here in two to three weeks.\u201d I have given up questioning bookstore minions about this long procurement time when I know I can go home, order on line, have the book delivered to my house in forty-eight hours\u2014and it will be cheaper. I asked, \u201cWhy don\u2019t you just order it from Amazon for me and I\u2019ll pick it up at the store in a couple days?\u201d \u201cWhy do you even bother with your own warehouse which is obviously located on the outskirts of Tralfalmadore?\u201d I know, I know . . . we have all had these little go-rounds, and there is nothing to be done about them. But the next few moments at the desk moved my experience into the realm of Twilight Zone. While still staring at the computer screen, the clerk stated with solid conviction \u201cWe will have a truck arriving tomorrow!\u201d Damn, dude, you sound like you just found the cure for limp-dick syndrome. My obvious reply, \u201cOh, will there be a copy of \u2018WorDY Shipmates\u2019 on board?\u201d \u201cNo.\u201d \u201cThen why are you telling me this?\u201d Perhaps he was just overjoyed with the prospects of an imminent delivery\u2014no matter the content. I will probably not show up that. I drove over to Barnes and Ignoble. Sarah\u2019s tome was on the new release rack by the front door. It took two minutes to grab it and go. ...more I loved this book. Ok, so I love the complex, intensely intellectual, weird world of 17th century English Protestantism, when a whole bunch of ideas about the way the world did work and should work and could work were mixed in with intense biblical study and result was this passionate textual arguing and synthesising a set of sometimes strange and sometimes brilliant ideas. It was the discovery of this world, through Christopher Hill's The World Turned Upside Down, that gave me a lifelong interes I loved this book. Ok, so I love the complex, intensely intellectual, weird world of 17th century English Protestantism, when a whole bunch of ideas about the way the world did work and should work and could work were mixed in with intense biblical study and result was this passionate textual arguing and synthesising a set of sometimes strange and sometimes brilliant ideas. It was the discovery of this world, through Christopher Hill's The World Turned Upside Down, that gave me a lifelong interest in faith and ideas. But I knew nothing at all coming in about New England, beyond a cursory compulsory-for-my-degree study of Salem. I'd been dimly aware that some of the players in the English theological curves and turns disappeared to the New World at points in the narrative, and I had a basic handle on manifest-destiny, city-on-a-hill, but I'd never cared to follow further. So the book, clearly intended for an audience familiar with New England's founding myths but not with the theology, felt a bit upside down at times. I found myself stopping to look up x or y once or twice a chapter, leading to a nice spin-off effect for the reading. What I really loved though was Vowell's capacity to link this to living history, to draw the dots through the ages to how our past, and the ideas of our past in particular, shape who we are now. How a speech on a freezing pier leads us to Vietnam. I also admit to adoring the unabashed intellectualism of the book - not the pretentious, deliberately-obscure-verbosity-heavy style that passes for it - but the passion for delving deep, for being an expert, for giving a shit about what actually happenned - that is so very out of style now, but Vowell's capacity to coat it with humour make it palatable. I haven't read much more of Vowell's work, but if the tone is always lighter, I'm not sure I would love it as much. It takes courage to care and to think, and I want more, not less, in my readable history. ...more I have a disease. An \"I can't remember shit about history\" disease. I try to exercise this blight out of my system every once in a while by reading less dry, light on the dates, heavy on the scandal, humorous historical accounts. Sarah Vowell is one of the better prescriptions. With her infectious fascination of days gone by and adorably odd voice, it's hard not to pay attention. One thing I've learned so far is things have been unbearably whack since the puritans landed . . . nay, things have bee I have a disease. An \"I can't remember shit about history\" disease. I try to exercise this blight out of my system every once in a while by reading less dry, light on the dates, heavy on the scandal, humorous historical accounts. Sarah Vowell is one of the better prescriptions. With her infectious fascination of days gone by and adorably odd voice, it's hard not to pay attention. One thing I've learned so far is things have been unbearably whack since the puritans landed . . . nay, things have been whack since the beginning of time. Alas, the end of the book didn't really hold up from the momentum of its first half. The beginning was fantastic. Watching religious fanatics fight each other over the word of God while trying to survive on bare minimum supplies and justifying the unspeakable slaughter of entire tribes was captivating, upsetting, ridiculous, at times hilarious. In Wordy, Vowell is all about drawing comparisons (both favorable and un) to John Winthrop's \"City on a Hill\" from \"A Model of Christian Charity.\" She points out, rightfully, that this speech has created some of the best and worst aspects of America. I won't go into specifics, but my favorite moment is when she describes the Massachusetts Bay Colony's emblem (a Native American pleaing with the English people to come save them) and then describes Dick Cheney in 2003 replacing the Native American with a Baghdadian. Ugh. Once the colonies are established and the more \"threatening\" Indian tribes are eradicated things slow down. Not that I wanted any more killing or injustices, but the narrative definitely takes a nosedive. I guess there's no other way to write it, considering that's the way things played out, but I felt my disease catching up with me toward the end. I'll wipe it out yet. ...more The only Sarah Vowell I've ever \"read,\" was/ is _Take the Cannoli_. All my other exposure to her writing has been via audio: _Assassination Vacation_, _The Partly Cloudy Patriot_, and now _The Wordy Shipmates_. I have to admit, sadly, that I was let down. Generally the audio versions of her books are so good. They feature readers like Conan O'Brien, Jon Stewart, and (my personal hero) David Cross. And while the audio version for \"Shipmates\" does feature the likes of Bill Hader, John Hodgman, and The only Sarah Vowell I've ever \"read,\" was/ is _Take the Cannoli_. All my other exposure to her writing has been via audio: _Assassination Vacation_, _The Partly Cloudy Patriot_, and now _The Wordy Shipmates_. I have to admit, sadly, that I was let down. Generally the audio versions of her books are so good. They feature readers like Conan O'Brien, Jon Stewart, and (my personal hero) David Cross. And while the audio version for \"Shipmates\" does feature the likes of Bill Hader, John Hodgman, and John Oliver, the only voice I ever heard/recognized was Campbell Scott's, who, you know, isn't chopped liver exactly BUT... I mean, I liked \"Singles\" and all, but that was what--15 years ago? Despite all that, his voice is pretty monotone, and has an overwhelming soothing effect. I can't tell you how many times I fell asleep listening to this book. I even fell asleep listening to this at work once! I tried, I really did try, to finish this. I must've listened to it for 40 hours. I kept rewinding (or whatever it is we call that now that everything's digital), but I just couldn't stay interested. I would like to point out, however, that the two stars are not for the text itself, but for the audio version. I am thinking this might be better in book form. I do love Sarah Vowell's passion for her subject and her ability to impart her nerdiness for history in a way that's quirky and funny and relevant and interesting (although the part where she talks about Americans getting their history from 70s TV sitcoms went on a bit too long for me), and she's obviously done her research-- like when she talks about how Reagan adopted Winthrop's \"City Upon a Hill\" speech as his own--hold on, this was my favorite so I'll copy the highlights for you: - In 1983, the official unemployment rate in America hit 11.5 million. Reagan, interviewed on Good Morning America, said that homeless people who slept on grates were \"Homeless, you might say, by choice.\" - In 1987 Reagan went on television to apologize for Iran-Contra. He said \"A few months ago- I told the American People I did not trade arms for hostages. My heart and my best intentions still tell me that's true, but the facts and evidence tell me it's not.\" -In 1989 he gave his fairwell address (what Vowell refers to as a \"self-congratulatory benediction\") and in his speech he referred to John Winthrop as an \"early freedom fighter.\" I've spoke of the shining city all my political life,\" he said \"but I don't know if I ever quite communicated what I saw when I said it. But in my mind it was a tall, proud city built on rocks stronger than oceans, windswept, God-blessed, and teeming with people of all kinds, living in harmony and peace. A city with free ports that hummed with commerce and creativity. And if there had to be city walls--the walls had doors, and the doors were open to anyone with the will and heart to get here. That's how I saw it, and see it still. And how stands the city on this winter night? More prosperous, more secure, and happier than it was eight years ago. But more than that-- after 200 years, two centuries, she still stands strong and true on the granite ridge, and her glow has held steady not matter what storm. To this Vowell responds My heart told me that wasn't true. The facts and evidence also told me that wasn't true. Remember Winthrop's city, where 'The rich and mighty should not eat up the poor.'? Where 'If thy brother be in want and thou canst help him, if thou lovest God, thou must help him.'? President Reagan did not utter the word AIDS in public until more than 20,000 people had died from the disease. His appointed officials embezzled funds ear-marked for cleaning up toxic waste sites and gave the money to Republican candidates. He cut school lunch programs for needy children. He fired 11,345 striking air traffic controllers which, according to the 'Village Voice,' led to 253 deaths due to controller errors over the next ten years. He cut the budget for the department of housing and urban development from $32 billion in 1981 to $7.5 billion in 1988. Two million Americans were homeless by 1989. The only Federal department whose budget was not cut, but increased, was the Department of Defense, that was because the President's white whale was the Soviet Union. Being ready and able to bomb the hell out of the \"Evil Empire\" was the nation's top priority, and if that meant thousands of poor kids had to skip lunch, or sleep in cars in poison neighborhoods, so be it. I imagine that the further you get in to the text, the more good stuff like this you'll find. I'd also like to add that Vowell's reverence and respect for much of the early religious writing associated with the Puritans helped me look at those texts through a strictly literary lens and not, as an Atheist, be so offended by the their countless references, thanks, and praises to god. All I can say at this point is, the jury's still out on the book, but, unfortunately, I have to give two big fat thumbs down to the audio version. ...more This is a story of pilgrims. Specifically, the brave and pious souls who came over on Arbella in 1630 and started a Massachusetts Bay Colony. It isn't quite the happy Thanksgiving tale promulgated later on by the popular opinion, but a real story of the stubborn, fortitudinous (nice, always wanted to use it in a sentence), well intentioned, oftentimes misguided, striving bunch of individuals who pursued a dream. This is precisely how I like my history, told by a clever erudite with a great sense This is a story of pilgrims. Specifically, the brave and pious souls who came over on Arbella in 1630 and started a Massachusetts Bay Colony. It isn't quite the happy Thanksgiving tale promulgated later on by the popular opinion, but a real story of the stubborn, fortitudinous (nice, always wanted to use it in a sentence), well intentioned, oftentimes misguided, striving bunch of individuals who pursued a dream. This is precisely how I like my history, told by a clever erudite with a great sense of humor. Although this isn't quite the sort of history I like. Proud autodidactic armchair historian taking on American history is like a cinema lover who only watched movies of the last decade or a serious conversationalist who only converses with youngsters....which is to say not that interesting in the grand scheme of things. Vowell makes it interesting, though, though well thought out connections to European history of the time and current US politics, particularly the latter, since the pilgrim past is never really dead, but instead continues to make appearances as if it was once interred in the ancient indian burial...oh wait, it was. Vowell is great, unapologetically smart in times of rampant anti intellectualism, opinionated, an astute observer/thinker, funny, a real pleasure to read. I only wish she's turn her considerable awesomeness to other places and other (older) times. Recommended. ...more I've greatly enjoyed all of Vowell's books previous to The Wordy Shipmates. That first sentence is probably not a ringing endorsement for book, I know. Truth be told, there were aspects of Shipmates I enjoyed very much. The story of the Puritans coming to the New World has always been an interesting one to me, especially in light of the way I was taught the story versus The Way Things Actually Were. Vowell does a nice job connecting the Puritans struggle and beliefs with America today, with pit s I've greatly enjoyed all of Vowell's books previous to The Wordy Shipmates. That first sentence is probably not a ringing endorsement for book, I know. Truth be told, there were aspects of Shipmates I enjoyed very much. The story of the Puritans coming to the New World has always been an interesting one to me, especially in light of the way I was taught the story versus The Way Things Actually Were. Vowell does a nice job connecting the Puritans struggle and beliefs with America today, with pit stops along the way examining some of the more interesting members of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Certainly you won't find a better book on Anne Hutchinson this year. So why wasn't I crazy about this book? I suppose, of all of Vowell's books, this one is the most dry. There's an essence of \"just the facts\" that The Wordy Shipmates is imbued with that is just fine for a history book. I can't fault it for that. I did miss a lot of the snarky personal response that Vowell usually injects her book with. It's here, it's just not as omnipresent as it was in Assassination Vacation and other previous works. For example, I had no problem listing Assassination Vacation under the tag \"memoir\" here on GoodReads. I really don't think I can do the same thing with this one. That's certainly not a bad thing, just not what I was expecting. In short, it's a fine history book but those looking for the same experience they had with her earlier works may find this lacking. ...more my one problem with this book was this: considering that i could \"listen\" to sarah vowell all day long, the fact that she included no chapter breaks meant that i looked up from this book to realize that i hadn't gotten out of bed yet, and that the day had driven headlong into what could almost be described as evening. heavy price to pay for a few pages over coffee. and i suppose that, really, that is no problem at all; except that the lack of chapters also seemed, in this case, to equal a lack of my one problem with this book was this: considering that i could \"listen\" to sarah vowell all day long, the fact that she included no chapter breaks meant that i looked up from this book to realize that i hadn't gotten out of bed yet, and that the day had driven headlong into what could almost be described as evening. heavy price to pay for a few pages over coffee. and i suppose that, really, that is no problem at all; except that the lack of chapters also seemed, in this case, to equal a lack of overbearing structure to the tale she was telling; which, like the above \"complaint,\" and the reason why i use the word \"overbearing,\" is really not so bad, either. the tale of the massachusetts bay colony swerves from the sailing of ships from britain to the iraq war to the protestant reformation to roger williams back to the founding of the massachusetts bay colony. and back to the iraq war. and then on from there. and back, and on. i guess i am trying to say that i really enjoyed this book, and its historical nerdiness, and all that ms. vowell does in the name of history and nerds and nerdy historians and historical nerds. i recommend it to everyone and their moms (as all the people who are buying it in our store seem to be buying it for their moms). so, yeah. ...more Meh... I expected more. The snark doesn't sit well in a supposed historical text. There seems to be no organization to it. And I have no idea what the thesis was. The Audible version was odd, in that she had a host of actors signed on, but they read just a line or two here & there. It doesn't come off as well as I'd hoped. On the upside, I finally know what \"The Hutch\" is & who it's named for. This book (well-praised on NPR a few years back) was intended to be a wry segue to my having read David Mitchell's maritime-themed novel \"The Thousand Autumns of Jacob De Zoet\". Sadly, this was a bad choice to read right after that near-masterpiece. I appreciate Sarah Vowell's enthusiasm in \"The Wordy Shipmates\", and really like the cover and title. And that's about it. I've got a laundry list of gripes about this historical exploration/opinion piece regarding the Puritans of the Massachusetts B This book (well-praised on NPR a few years back) was intended to be a wry segue to my having read David Mitchell's maritime-themed novel \"The Thousand Autumns of Jacob De Zoet\". Sadly, this was a bad choice to read right after that near-masterpiece. I appreciate Sarah Vowell's enthusiasm in \"The Wordy Shipmates\", and really like the cover and title. And that's about it. I've got a laundry list of gripes about this historical exploration/opinion piece regarding the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony in the early-to-mid 1600s but I'll just list a few: 1. It's unclear what Ms Vowell is trying to write about. Is it a history textbook? A think piece? An op-ed column? Ms. Vowel takes the really sometimes dry and stuffy Puritanism topic, writes about its foundation, its key players, its infinitesimal details, then at random gums up the works with commentary that's at times hard to discern what is fact and what is opinion. 2. Ms. Vowell's effort is totally disorganized. . One paragraph may start with historical data, then with a dubious, jerky-jerky segue will start talking about 9/11 or the Foxwoods Casino, then start talking about a completely different topic unrelated to the first. A lazy, uninspired editing job leads to a book not worth reading, 3. Ms. Vowell, when trying to prove a point, \"speaks from both sides of her mouth\" and ends up proving nothing. . A prime example is her treatment of principals John Winthrop and Roger Williams. One paragraph she may extol one of their virtues (like, for instance with Williams, being a firm proponent of church and state and a rallier for freedom of religious persecution) then, perhaps, liken their actions to those of someone of recent history (like, say Martin Luther King [who she admires] or Ronald Reagan [who she evidently doesn't]), then immediately excoriate them a paragraph later (like, again with Williams, for his ill-intentioned interactions with non-Puritans and Native Americans). 4. Snarky commentary and historical fact just doesn't coexist well on the page. Unless it's an opinion piece (or anything delivered by snark-meisters like Jon Stewart or Bill Maher) then let the snark rip. (again, per point #1, it's not entirely clear what Ms. Vowell's trying to write here). And if you're gonna be snarky, please at least be funny. Ms, Vowell more often than not just isn't very funny; at best she comes off as an overly glib, jaded smartass Junior College professor, trying to stir life into a bored class (and failing). Again, I do appreciate her efforts in trying to breathe life in an under-appreciated chapter in US history (and, heck, for the most part, I'm pretty much totally aligned with her left-leaning political stance, which, when she actually succeeded in driving home a point, was like preaching to the choir.) The old adage of \"those ignoring history are doomed to repeat it\" is apt, and important lessons can certainly be gleaned from the foibles of our past. But if one endeavors to instruct, or at least present a different way we look at things (as I suspect is Ms Vowell's motive for writing this) then one best have an organized lesson plan. ...more \"Let us thank God for having given us such [Puritan] ancestors; and let each successive generation thank Him, not less fervently, for being one step further from them in the march of ages.\" - Hawthorne, of all people (quoted on p. 58) This book is light. It's pleasantly chatty and engaging, but it's pop history at its poppiest. It suffers in comparison to Nathaniel Philbrick, whose Mayflower picks up at the exact moment Wordy Shipmates leaves off; Philbrick isn't as easy to read, but his history i \"Let us thank God for having given us such [Puritan] ancestors; and let each successive generation thank Him, not less fervently, for being one step further from them in the march of ages.\" - Hawthorne, of all people (quoted on p. 58) This book is light. It's pleasantly chatty and engaging, but it's pop history at its poppiest. It suffers in comparison to Nathaniel Philbrick, whose Mayflower picks up at the exact moment Wordy Shipmates leaves off; Philbrick isn't as easy to read, but his history is much more clearly laid out. (It also suffers in comparison to Tony Horwitz, who - in books like A Voyage Long and Strange - combines Vowell's snappy style with Philbrick's careful history.) Vowell goes off on many, many tangents about things like Reagan and 9/11; I already know both those things sucked. There's a lot about a trip she took with her nephew; I get the impression that's what she does, and it's what Horwitz does too (I wonder if I'd be as pleased with him now as I was a couple of years ago?), but it didn't work for me here. I'm interested in this part of history, and I'm fascinated by her idea to look at Puritans through their literature - which is sermons, because that's all they wrote - because I took a class on early American lit in college that included many of these sermons. They were boring then, and Vowell does a passable job of interesting me in them more...but not quite as good a job as I'd hoped. I wanted more of that, and less travelogue. I'm pretty sure Vowell's point is to reclaim Puritans for liberals; she disparages Reagan's frequent allusions to them, saying he totally missed the point. The Puritans were a more literate, and tolerant, society than we give them credit for. I don't think she really proves that point, though; in the end, I think the Puritans basically were intolerant assholes, and you can't do much to whitewash it. I sound pretty down on this book, but I gave it three stars. If you like your history very light and easy, you could do worse than this book. It just didn't leave a hell of an impression. ...more This is NOT as easy-reading as Sarah Vowell's other books. Instead of having multiple topics, Sarah focuses on just one, the Massachusetts Bay pilgrims, who came after the more famous Plymouth Rock ones. She digs into this dry subject, and while managing to make her usual wry observations, reading quotations from Governor Winthrop and other colonists isn't as fast going as her usual conversational style. The topics are serious stuff - the colony's precarious independent rule as granted by the cha This is NOT as easy-reading as Sarah Vowell's other books. Instead of having multiple topics, Sarah focuses on just one, the Massachusetts Bay pilgrims, who came after the more famous Plymouth Rock ones. She digs into this dry subject, and while managing to make her usual wry observations, reading quotations from Governor Winthrop and other colonists isn't as fast going as her usual conversational style. The topics are serious stuff - the colony's precarious independent rule as granted by the charter from England, relations with the local tribes and the issue of was it really England's land to bequeath, and questions of salvation through grace rather than works. Overarching all this is the idea of the colony being a \"city on a hill\", setting an example for the rest of the world. There was a lot to think about, and a lot that is reflected in our current political culture. Fascinating stuff, but the combination of history and philosophy make for slow going. Recommended for quirky history buffs. ************************************ Okay, I'm back to reading this book, and already I can tell I'm more in the mood. It helps that I just went to see Sarah Vowell doing readings from this book and some of her other material last weekend. Wow, I did NOT know that about stuff about Oneida teapots having an origin in a New England free love cult! This is now my bus book. ************************************************* I just couldn't find the dedicated time I wanted to read this, and then I had to return it to the library. I'm asking for it for Christmas. And I WILL read it. I did have a little trouble with the format - I wanted paragraphs, not just little breaks between passages. And I expected it to be like Sarah's other books, with more of her own life mixed in. But this book (at least, what I read of it) didn't stray much from the subject of the pilgrims in question. But now that I know what to expect, I think I'll enjoy it when I finally DO get around to reading the whole thing. ...more Vowell's book rates as anecdotal pop history at its most average. I'll give her credit, she tries pretty hard to make this - the story of the founding of the Massachusetts Bay Colony - appeal to a wide audience. There's a good deal of clever wordplay and an engaging, 'gee isn't that strange' sense of humor; and she makes a point of drawing lots of parallels to our present-day social and political idiosyncrasies, some of which are interesting. But I was constantly annoyed that Vowell doesn't try Vowell's book rates as anecdotal pop history at its most average. I'll give her credit, she tries pretty hard to make this - the story of the founding of the Massachusetts Bay Colony - appeal to a wide audience. There's a good deal of clever wordplay and an engaging, 'gee isn't that strange' sense of humor; and she makes a point of drawing lots of parallels to our present-day social and political idiosyncrasies, some of which are interesting. But I was constantly annoyed that Vowell doesn't try to make more of a general point about the Puritans, or about their impact on modern-day America. Why does it matter that these shipmates were \"wordy\"? It seems like she's telling a bunch of loosely connected stories about Puritans merely to set up a string of one-liners. And by the middle of the book, the sheer volume of those one-liners leave the reader feeling kind of shallow for reading them. The book also lacks any formal organization - there are no chapters, no themes, no section breaks; the book even defies a strict chronology. It proceeds only in the direction that Vowell chooses to take it, without guiding its readers along, which only made me more perplexed as to why I should care about any of this at all. ...more You may only know Sarah Vowell by her physical voice, as she is a regular contributor to Public Radio's \"This American Life\" and the voice of Violet in \"The Incredibles.\" It is a unique voice, at once childish in pitch yet edgy. Apparently, when she writes, the child is left at home with a babysitter. Hers is a voice of barbed observation combined with painstaking research on her chosen subject. I decided I had to read \"The Wordy Shipmates\" after reading a review on CNN.com that contained a quote You may only know Sarah Vowell by her physical voice, as she is a regular contributor to Public Radio's \"This American Life\" and the voice of Violet in \"The Incredibles.\" It is a unique voice, at once childish in pitch yet edgy. Apparently, when she writes, the child is left at home with a babysitter. Hers is a voice of barbed observation combined with painstaking research on her chosen subject. I decided I had to read \"The Wordy Shipmates\" after reading a review on CNN.com that contained a quote (from page 12) \"Winthrop and his shipmates and their children and their children's children just wrote their own books and pretty much kept their noses in them up until the day God created the Red Sox.\" Love it. The form of the book is not standard; it's a long narrative without division into chapters. Chronologically, it goes from the departure of the Arbella through to King Phillip's War (remember THAT one from sixth grade, New Englanders? Yeah, those of us from the upper right-hand corner of the country know this stuff and can tell you which Indian nations sided with whom in the French and Indian wars. We made maps). I liked this book well enough not only to HIGHLY recommend it but also to look for more works by Ms. Vowell like \"Assassination Vacation.\" ...more Sarah Vowell is terrific. As a New Englander, I found this account of southern New England history fascinating. The history of Pilgrims and Puritans sounds deadly but it was eye-opening. The Massachusetts Bay Colony forbade all religious beliefs except for the Puritan's brand. Anne Hutchinson (the river and Parkway in NY are named for her) was not only an advocate for religious freedom, but women's rights. She also may have been a bit mad. Laws restricting immigrants by religion, race, national Sarah Vowell is terrific. As a New Englander, I found this account of southern New England history fascinating. The history of Pilgrims and Puritans sounds deadly but it was eye-opening. The Massachusetts Bay Colony forbade all religious beliefs except for the Puritan's brand. Anne Hutchinson (the river and Parkway in NY are named for her) was not only an advocate for religious freedom, but women's rights. She also may have been a bit mad. Laws restricting immigrants by religion, race, national origin etc. are not new - the Mass Bay Colony had them in the 17th century. As a teenager I could see \"King Phillip's cave\" on Talcott Mountain in Connecticut from my house. His actual name was Metacomet, and he waged war against English settlers in the 17th century (known as the first \"Indian\" war). Vowell's book weaves together the people, events and places in an engaging study of history that is too often dry and uninspiring. I am planning to read the rest of her books asap. ...more Little did I know that the Puritans were so interesting...or so relevant to modern life and our view of our nation and our world! Being a California girl, I just don't think about the Puritans much past grammar school and having read all of Louisa May Alcott, Patricia Clapp's \"Constance\" and Snedeker's \"Downright Dencey\" as a child. (Yes, I know these books aren't specifically about the Puritans. But I would say they were influenced by them.) So I enjoyed this additional Vowellish take on our Ame Little did I know that the Puritans were so interesting...or so relevant to modern life and our view of our nation and our world! Being a California girl, I just don't think about the Puritans much past grammar school and having read all of Louisa May Alcott, Patricia Clapp's \"Constance\" and Snedeker's \"Downright Dencey\" as a child. (Yes, I know these books aren't specifically about the Puritans. But I would say they were influenced by them.) So I enjoyed this additional Vowellish take on our American History! ...more For me, this book was really a 4.5, but I think that you really have to be interested in early American history to be as entralled with this book as much as I was. To hear conservative social commentators tell it, the United States is still \"the city upon a hill\" of John Winthrop. But, as Sarah Vowell discovers in The Wordy Shipmates, Puritans were very different from the impression that contemporary society has created. While being claimed by Fundamentalists of the Religious Right, Vowell point For me, this book was really a 4.5, but I think that you really have to be interested in early American history to be as entralled with this book as much as I was. To hear conservative social commentators tell it, the United States is still \"the city upon a hill\" of John Winthrop. But, as Sarah Vowell discovers in The Wordy Shipmates, Puritans were very different from the impression that contemporary society has created. While being claimed by Fundamentalists of the Religious Right, Vowell points out that \"the Puritans live and worship within a specific subset of the Protestant Reformation--Calvinism\" with its emphasis on predestination and limited atonement. She points out that although the King James Bible was available to them, it was the Geneva Bible that the Puritans brought with them to the New World. She also points out that one of the problems that the Puritan leaders had with Anne Hutchinson was that her belief that the \"the Holy Ghost living inside a believer was dangerously close to a belief in immediate personal revelation.\" Puritans were convinced that God's will could only be discovered through the Bible as understood and interpreted by ordained ministers--the teacher and the pastor, announced in mandatory church services. One of my favorite parts of the book was the relationship between John Winthrop and Roger Williams. Williams was ultimately banished from Massachusetts Bay, but he and Winthrop remained religious opponents, but personal friends to the end of Winthrop's life. Williams was banished from the colony because of his insistence on the separation of church and state (in fact, he was the first to use that phrase). In his words, Williams believed that the government of Massachusetts Bay \"opened a gap in the hedge or wall of separation bwtween the garden of the Church and the wilderness of the world\" and he devoted his life to keeping government out of the church--not the church out of government. Williams believed that governments should allow all forms of religions, including in his words \"the most paganist, Jewish, Turkish (Islamic) or Antichristian consciences.\" Vowell links recent events in the United States with the Puritan past, often with entertaining results, sometimes with more painful results. Vowell also reminds the reader that Perry Miller, a 20th century Harvard professor, argued that \"having respect for the Puritans is not the same thing as beieving in them. An interesting thought. Oh by the way, Puritan descendants are all around us--the 2004 presidential debates were between John Winthrop's descendant, John Kerry, and a great-something-grandson of Anne Hutchinson, George W. Bush. ...more This book barely scrapes by with four stars, based mostly on the duel facts that I've become a pretty big history buff in recent years, and that I happen to think Sarah Vowell is pretty neat. If you're not a fan of Vowell, I can't really see myself recommending this book to you. Its a rather meandering account of the Puritan's early attempts to sculpt the Massachusetts Bay Colony from the new American wilderness, using only their tough puritan work ethic and their oppresively burdensome religious This book barely scrapes by with four stars, based mostly on the duel facts that I've become a pretty big history buff in recent years, and that I happen to think Sarah Vowell is pretty neat. If you're not a fan of Vowell, I can't really see myself recommending this book to you. Its a rather meandering account of the Puritan's early attempts to sculpt the Massachusetts Bay Colony from the new American wilderness, using only their tough puritan work ethic and their oppresively burdensome religious practices. It focuses primarily on the goals of Puritan leader, John Winthrop and touches on other 17th century luminaries as Roger Williams, John Cotton, and Anne Hutchinson. I said meandering, and I mean it. The events follow a relativaly chronological order, but there are no big ideas that are outlined or arguements presented. There aren't even any chapters. I almost called this an extended essay, but its really more like a stream-of-consciousness history improv lecture. Which isn't necessarily a bad thing. Like I said, I think Vowell is a neat chick, so even her directionless (yest factually accurate) ramblings I find quite readable and even enjoyable. Vowell's transformation over the course of her last few books has been a fascinating one. Her first several works marked her as a hipster essayist in the vein of David Sedaris, her co-contributor at 'This American Life'. With her last book, \"Assassination Vacation\", however, she has transformed into a full-blown historian (or at the very least, a history afficianado), collecting stories about her travels around the country to sites related to the various assassinations of American presidents. The difference between \"The Wordy Shipmates\" and that book, however, is that \"Assassination Vacation\" was still (at least partly) about Vowell herself. You got a good feel for what drove her around the country from locale to locale, and each adventure paid off with what she learned at each place. With \"The Wordy Shipmates\", however, Vowell pretty much removes herself from the account. She drops in a note or two about her sister and nephew, and meeting with a historian or two when examining some important documents. But for the most part, this is the story of the Puritans. Vowell acts as a distinct and quirky narrator, but it is Winthrop and his Puritans who take center stage. I enjoyed this work, but I do hope Vowell shifts back toward the linked personal/historical essays for her next work, as opposed to the long-form almost-essay of \"Shipmates\". ...more<---C>Sarah Vowell</---C>", "Title": "The Wordy Shipmates"},
