{"Comments": "This is one of those guilty pleasure books that you feel somewhat embarassed about. Shuffling through the romance section of Barnes & Noble is a new and awkward treat for me. Not only did I not expect to ever read anything from this side of the bookstore, I never expected to enjoy it quite so much. Before I go any further, my macho side feels compelled to point out that I originally stumbled upon one of Davidson's books in the new releases section and, having recently read Christopher Moore' This is one of those guilty pleasure books that you feel somewhat embarassed about. Shuffling through the romance section of Barnes & Noble is a new and awkward treat for me. Not only did I not expect to ever read anything from this side of the bookstore, I never expected to enjoy it quite so much. Before I go any further, my macho side feels compelled to point out that I originally stumbled upon one of Davidson's books in the new releases section and, having recently read Christopher Moore's Bloodsucking Fiends and You Suck, the page and a half I read of the book seemed like just the thing to cure my vamp itch. To my bemusement, I found the series in the romance section. This notwithstanding, I didn't hesitate in scooping up the first in the series, a lovely pink and purple book. Now that my inner-male is somewhat pacified, I can continue talking about the book itself. Each book in the series is very short, only a few hours of reading time. But what they lack in length, they more than make up for in fun. Davidson's protagonist, Betsy,<---M> is a zany</---M>, smart-alecky newbie vamp who, of course, blunders her way from situation to situation with a charming mix of naivete and sass. Beyond the somewhat gratuitous \"torrid love scenes\" indicative of the genre, which, despite their female perspective manage to be excitingly readable (<---B>read: it's not all man chests and pork swords</---B>), this book throws at you a fun mix of spontaneous, wisecracking characters that don't fail in providing a few hours of lighthearted entertainment. If you like vamps and sex (or shoes), this series is worth the awkward trip to the romance section. I recommend grabbing a couple of these books as they are very quick reads and indulgently addictive. ...more This sounded like a fun read, but it wasn't!!! **1.5 \"More Annoying than Entertaining\" stars** The heroine dies in a car accident only to wake up in the funeral home a few nights later. On her way home, she accidentally kills a few bad guys that are robbing and talking about raping a mom and her daughter. She then assumes she's evil and try's kill herself. Drinking Clorox, jumping head first off a high rise, drinking holy water, and sleeping in the sun to name a few. This is all suppose to be funn This sounded like a fun read, but it wasn't!!! **1.5 \"More Annoying than Entertaining\" stars** The heroine dies in a car accident only to wake up in the funeral home a few nights later. On her way home, she accidentally kills a few bad guys that are robbing and talking about raping a mom and her daughter. She then assumes she's evil and try's kill herself. Drinking Clorox, jumping head first off a high rise, drinking holy water, and sleeping in the sun to name a few. This is all suppose to be funny, but I found it annoying and silly. Why would someone that didn't commit suicide be so obsessed with killing herself. When none of that works, she visits a church and talks to a minister. He convinces her that she is not a spawn of the devil, so she contacts her family and friends to let them know that she is a vampire and that she's here to stay. Her dad and stepmom are not happy and want nothing to do with her. I really hated the heroine, Elizabeth Taylor, but referred to as Betsy. She's superficial, judges others by their clothes or looks. Allowed a vampire to rip open her friend's neck and gorge on him but never lifted a finger to make it stop. She just stood there like an idiot and allowed her helpless friend to be \"vampire raped\". At least that's what she called it when another vampire bit her without permission. Yet she killed two men when they robbed a woman in an alley. Oh, and she could only be persuaded to join the good guys in a war when they offered to buy her name brand shoes. Did I mention she was s shoe snob? I didn't care for the hero, Eric Sinclair. He was a know it all, stuffy, pompous vampire. So what if he was sexy and hung like a horse. Those two qualities alone are not enough to make me love a hero. There was no real chemistry between him and Betsy. Though she was attracted to Sinclair, she didn't like him, and wanted nothing to do with him either. This book is suppose to be funny, but it missed the mark for me. I was SO offended by the heroine's best friend, a black female that like to refer to white people as whitey and honky.<---F> Yet she claimed to love Elizabeth</---F>. I never understand why its ok for blacks to be racist and use derogatory comments towards whites, as if it's comedic. Well it isn't comedic!!! It's horribly offensive!! I hung in there because I wanted to know how this would end, only there was no true ending. Just a teaser to try and make you read book 2. But I don't like any of the characters enough to read book two. Spoiler Rant (view spoiler) [ It pretty much ends with Sinclair and Betsy having sex, and she discovering that act alone made him her consort. She then pretty much says, \"I don't think so\",leaves Sinclair and returns to live in her apartment. (hide spoiler) ] Sinclair sends her name brand shoes daily in hopes of gaining her affection, Prada, Gucci, etc. Which is so fucked up. You win a prostitute's heart with gifts and money. That is not how you win a decent woman's heart. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Super funny book that delivers the snark! It's not a deep or complicated urban fantasy or anything. It's simple, cute, silly, and fun. Like a chick-flick book. Personally, I don't have the shoe-fetish that we woman are all supposed to have. I must have missed that day in Femaling 101. But, Betsy the vampire still had enough other qualities that I could relate to - such as being a smartass. When she meets a large group of vampires, she has a few questions: \"Why don't we turn the goddamned lights o Super funny book that delivers the snark! It's not a deep or complicated urban fantasy or anything. It's simple, cute, silly, and fun. Like a chick-flick book. Personally, I don't have the shoe-fetish that we woman are all supposed to have. I must have missed that day in Femaling 101. But, Betsy the vampire still had enough other qualities that I could relate to - such as being a smartass. When she meets a large group of vampires, she has a few questions: \"Why don't we turn the goddamned lights on? Why are you all wearing black? Why do you all look like extras from a B-movie vampire set?\" Right? The goth thing is so over. So, I need to keep reading this series until it annoys me. It will happen. We all know it will. ...more Maybe it could be a 3 stars rating. This book made me laugh hard most of the time. Although you must understand that it is a book to have a nice time, a fast and fun read. Don't expect any more that that because you won't get it. There's nothing serious about this book. There's no real romance neither. But still I had a great time. The heroine is amazing. What can I say? I loved her humor. She's wicked and naughty, LOL. She really does have a great personality. My only problem was that she was to Maybe it could be a 3 stars rating. This book made me laugh hard most of the time. Although you must understand that it is a book to have a nice time, a fast and fun read. Don't expect any more that that because you won't get it. There's nothing serious about this book. There's no real romance neither. But still I had a great time. The heroine is amazing. What can I say? I loved her humor. She's wicked and naughty, LOL. She really does have a great personality. My only problem was that she was too vane and shallow most of the time. I mean, it was funny to see a heroine like her and I didn't really mind that she was like that but it would have been nice too see a deeper side of her as well, at least for a little while. But it never came. Maybe that's why I couldn't give a higher rating to this book. Also a more interesting plot would have been nice. I mean, she turned into a vampire and save all the vampires from the bad vampire... really? Something greater could have happened. But it was a different point of view to the vampire world for sure. Don't get me wrong, I'm just mentioning the reasons for why I couldn't give this book a higher rating, but doesn't mean that I didn't like it because I had a great time reading it. And I have higher expectations with the next books in the series. Although I still hope our heroine gets a bit more mature, at least just a bit... It's not much to ask, LOL. ...more Betsy has had a bad day. She gets laid off from work and then hit by a car and smashed into a tree. When she wakes up in a coffin at the funeral home, wearing a ghastly pink suit and her \"stepmonsters\" cheap pink heels, she thinks she's a zombie and tries to top herself. Again and again and again. It takes a six-year-old to point out to her that she's got fangs and is a vampire. That's just the beginning of Betsy's really bad week. Her best friend Jessica takes it all in her stride, and so does h Betsy has had a bad day. She gets laid off from work and then hit by a car and smashed into a tree. When she wakes up in a coffin at the funeral home, wearing a ghastly pink suit and her \"stepmonsters\" cheap pink heels, she thinks she's a zombie and tries to top herself. Again and again and again. It takes a six-year-old to point out to her that she's got fangs and is a vampire. That's just the beginning of Betsy's really bad week. Her best friend Jessica takes it all in her stride, and so does her mum, but she discovers there's a power-hungry, badly-dressed vampire king who sees her as a threat and has put a price on her head - because all the usual weaknesses don't affect her: the sun doesn't burn her, crosses and holy water don't affect her, she can control her thirst and dogs just love her. She may be the prophesised queen they've been waiting millennia for, but all Betsy wants is to rescue her collection of designer shoes from her stepmonster and resist the lure of one oh-so-sexy vampire, Sinclair. <+++>Undead and Unwed</+++> is flippant, irreverent, funny, sexy and very very annoying. That is to say, Betsy is very annoying. She's caring at heart, but her superficiality does not make her a likeable character. Her flippancy does, though. It's a tough juggle, humour and sexiness, but Davidson just manages it. I have to agree with most of the other characters, though, when they tell Betsy to SHUT UP! God she can talk! On a completely unrelated note, you don't fill a teapot with water and put it on the stove to boil. That's a kettle. And, as far as I was aware (maybe this is a cultural thing?) a handbag is a largish bag with a long strap that can hold wallet, keys, tissues, lipstick etc., and a purse is the feminine version of a man's wallet, not the other way around. Oh, and the past tense of \"tread\" is \"trod\", NOT \"treaded\" - which isn't a word. ...more \u201cJust because I\u2019m dead doesn\u2019t mean I can\u2019t have a life.\u201d Based on the cover, I thought it would be a light story and it was. I hadn\u2019t really read the blurb before I started reading. The narration is smart, as the story is told by Betsy\u2019s viewpoint, so you can comprehend and experience things with her. I love Betsy, there is much potential in her character. She is a newbie vampire, with distinguishing abilities. She has to learn much about her vampire nature, but also has to rise to the challe \u201cJust because I\u2019m dead doesn\u2019t mean I can\u2019t have a life.\u201d Based on the cover, I thought it would be a light story and it was. I hadn\u2019t really read the blurb before I started reading. The narration is smart, as the story is told by Betsy\u2019s viewpoint, so you can comprehend and experience things with her. I love Betsy, there is much potential in her character. She is a newbie vampire, with distinguishing abilities. She has to learn much about her vampire nature, but also has to rise to the challenge of her new position in the vampire society. Betsy\u2019s haphazard attitude, her independence, and her cheerful, cool behavior result in a lot of funny situations. I enjoyed the situational comedy elements, the witty, laugh-out-loud dialogues, Betsy\u2019s playful ripostes, and her sarcastic tendency to rename people. The world-building has shortcomings, but it doesn\u2019t lessen the entertainment value of the story. Anyway, I don\u2019t expect a complex vampire mythology from such a light, funny book. The sex scenes are surprising, light, and intensely erotic without some sickly sweet romantic bullshit. As for the romance, I\u2019m satisfied that there is no remarkable romance here. Nevertheless, I hope it won\u2019t be over-elongated either. <+++>Undead and Unwed</+++> is a great starter book of the Undead series, and it is highly different from the paranormal romances I\u2019ve read before. I enjoyed every single line of it! Originally posted on my blog on April 10, 2013. My favorite quotes. ...more The first good thing that I have to say about this book is that I love the title. It's funny. So, when I picked it up I had great expectations to it's entertaining value during my daily commuting. Sadly, I was wrong. This book was in my opinion not funny at all, although I must stay that it tried very hard to be a funny book. Too hard, even. The second positive that I have to say is that it's read quite quickly. That is a good thing, for a book this bad should either be tossed right away or be ov The first good thing that I have to say about this book is that I love the title. It's funny. So, when I picked it up I had great expectations to it's entertaining value during my daily commuting. Sadly, I was wrong. This book was in my opinion not funny at all, although I must stay that it tried very hard to be a funny book. Too hard, even. The second positive that I have to say is that it's read quite quickly. That is a good thing, for a book this bad should either be tossed right away or be over with quickly. It really made me cringe, and that happens rarely when it comes to books. This book pays lip-service to the political correctness of today (mandatory best friend of colour), chick-litt shoe-owning and fashion obsessiveness, vulgar-\"love\"-scenes, overly simplistic story-telling, and un-interesting one-dimensional characters. Don't bother with this book - unless you are looking for chick-litt with a vampire twist. If that is your thing. If you must, check out Charlaine Harris ' Sookie Stackhouse series, compared to this trash, Harris' books are literary treasures. My verdict: 1 star ...more I am a huge fan of chick-lit and paranormal romance, so combining the two genres is like reader heaven for me. Seriously, you get the best of both genres with this book: the insecure but lovable protagonist, her bad ass vampire crush, and some steamy sex scenes. What more could a girl ask for? I was not going to stumble around like a zombie, scaring the hell out of people and pretending I still had a place in the world. \"God,\" I said, teetering for balance, \"I'm coming to see you know.\" Betsy is I am a huge fan of chick-lit and paranormal romance, so combining the two genres is like reader heaven for me. Seriously, you get the best of both genres with this book: the insecure but lovable protagonist, her bad ass vampire crush, and some steamy sex scenes. What more could a girl ask for? I was not going to stumble around like a zombie, scaring the hell out of people and pretending I still had a place in the world. \"God,\" I said, teetering for balance, \"I'm coming to see you know.\" Betsy is having a horrible week. Not only did she die in a tragic accident, she has awaken a vampire-in horrible shoes at that. After coming to terms with her new (undead) life she manages to piss off the head vampire, become a crime fighting vigilante, and oh yeah, learns of a prophecy that will make her the queen of the undead. Whew! I enjoyed this book more than I thought I would and I seriously had to cry from laughing too hard. This isn't a stimulating read so don't approach it looking for the secrets of the universe and such. This book should be read if you're sad, stressed, and looking for a a pick me up-that's calorie free. ...more SO this book is about a narcissistic, slightly stupid woman who dies and becomes a vampire. But, she has all of these abilities that other vamps don't. She can walk in the daylight, go on holy ground, wear a cross, etc... The reason is because she is the foretold queen that has finally risen. Some of the current bad-ass vamps find out and want her to join their side. Overall, the book was okay. I wasn't thrilled with it. I thought that the author was trying a little too hard for the characters to SO this book is about a narcissistic, slightly stupid woman who dies and becomes a vampire. But, she has all of these abilities that other vamps don't. She can walk in the daylight, go on holy ground, wear a cross, etc... The reason is because she is the foretold queen that has finally risen. Some of the current bad-ass vamps find out and want her to join their side. Overall, the book was okay. I wasn't thrilled with it. I thought that the author was trying a little too hard for the characters to be funny. I mean I did laugh out loud towards the end, but some of the jokes and bantering sounded too forced. I did like the relationship between Sinclair and Elizabeth. They were interesting together especially since she hated him and also was attracted to him at the same time. Towards the middle I really hated Elizabeth's character, she was so vain, but by the end I just laughed at her. I will read the next book in the series just to see if the series gets better or worse. I hope the writing isn't quite as forced. ...more So ein Buch habe ich bei dem Regenwetter gebraucht... Der sehr humorvolle Schreibstil und die schlagfertige Hauptprotagonisten Betsy mit dem frechen und vorlauten Mundwerk sind eine perfekte Abwechslung im grauen Alltag. Die Geschichte ist vielleicht nur 3 Sterne wert, weil sie nicht wirklich \u00fcberraschend war, aber Betsy ist einfach so unterhaltsam. Bin gespannt, was da noch passiert :) I wish Good Reads had more \u201cstar categories\u201d. I would give this book 4 stars for concept and 0 stars for execution. This is another choice from my book rental club. Sometimes those choices have felt like crap shoots. Part of the problem stems from the fact that I make my choices based on reviews and book descriptions on the book rental web site. None of the reviews I read warned me that were this story a movie, it would be rated a very hard R. The book cover is also misleading. Its cover art giv I wish Good Reads had more \u201cstar categories\u201d. I would give this book 4 stars for concept and 0 stars for execution. This is another choice from my book rental club. Sometimes those choices have felt like crap shoots. Part of the problem stems from the fact that I make my choices based on reviews and book descriptions on the book rental web site. None of the reviews I read warned me that were this story a movie, it would be rated a very hard R. The book cover is also misleading. Its cover art gives one the impression that this might be a lighthearted literary romp. There is nothing that warns you about what is contained within the pages of this story. This is Carrie Bradshaw (of \u201cSex and the City\u201d fame) meets Dracula. Elizabeth Taylor aka \u201cBetsy\u201d Taylor is having a very bad week. First she loses her job. Then she gets killed by a sliding car whilst chasing after her errant cat. She then wakes up in the morgue \u201cdressed in a pink suit and cheap shoes courtesy of her stepmother\u201d. She exits the coffin and the morgue in a royal snit about the clothes she\u2019s wearing and at the same time trying to come to terms with the fact that she knows she\u2019s dead and should not be up walking around. She would like her life to get back to normal as soon as possible and spends a good part of this story trying to make that happen. But you learn that a few months prior to Betsy\u2019s untimely death, she had been attacked by some creatures that seemed very animal like to her and had reported the attack to the police. She makes the decision to test out whether or not she can die. She purposely puts herself into situations that would normally result in the death of a normal human being and discovers among other things that she has enormous strength and can no longer stomach her favorite foods. Dogs adore her and men can\u2019t resist her. This story is funny. Mostly the part about how she finally comes to terms with who and what she has become. Unfortunately, Ms. Davidson has chosen to give her main character as well as several others what\u2019s known as \u201cpotty mouths\u201d with EXTENSIVE use of the infamous \u201cf\u201d word on nearly every other page it seems. I don\u2019t use this kind of language myself and do not like hearing it or reading it. It is offensive to me and ruins a story for me with its frequent use. The English language is extensive and I just feel that an author does not need to resort to the use of profanity to make a point or to use it as a tool for characterization purposes. This is a very cleverly conceived story. But in my estimation the editors for Ms. Davidson could have turned this into a PG rated story and not lost a bit of the very original and humorous story line. I would like to see how Betsy further deals with her new status as a vampire with scruples and designer shoes, but assume that all the subsequent books in this series would be written in the same style as this first one was. Won\u2019t be reading any more of this series or anything else written by this author. ...more I think I'm still shell-shocked from reading this book. I belong to a \"fascinating\" book club where we only try and pick horrendous and/or fun/lights reads to make fun of when we get together. I actually had higher hopes when I started this one. I found out it was based in the Twin Cities where we all live, it had some witty and entertaining writing and it had been compared to \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", which is my favorite television show of all time. No - just no. I was really sickened by this I think I'm still shell-shocked from reading this book. I belong to a \"fascinating\" book club where we only try and pick horrendous and/or fun/lights reads to make fun of when we get together. I actually had higher hopes when I started this one. I found out it was based in the Twin Cities where we all live, it had some witty and entertaining writing and it had been compared to \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", which is my favorite television show of all time. No - just no. I was really sickened by this book. The writing was dribble. No respectable woman in her thirties talks this way to others. She writes Minneapolis as if it's The Bronx at 2 a.m. every night. The character can't even walk on one of the streets in Minneapolis in the evening without getting mugged continuously. But above all, this book is so unnecessarily graphic that it wasn't even a dark comedy. My husband actually asked me if I was feeling well when I was reading the last chapter because my face looked so concerned. Yes, I knew what I was getting myself into, but I had no idea it would be THIS bad. ...more I read this last year and was just suggested it again. I never finished it so I didn't think it was fair to include it in my books read, but now I just want to rate and review it so that it won't be suggested to me again. I am aware that this is just a fun read and not meant to be taken seriously, but honestly I couldn't stand it. The main character is a complete superficial, materialistic, idiot. There were some funny parts, but it was not enough to redeem this book for me. Wasting my time on t I read this last year and was just suggested it again. I never finished it so I didn't think it was fair to include it in my books read, but now I just want to rate and review it so that it won't be suggested to me again. I am aware that this is just a fun read and not meant to be taken seriously, but honestly I couldn't stand it. The main character is a complete superficial, materialistic, idiot. There were some funny parts, but it was not enough to redeem this book for me. Wasting my time on this type of book frustrates me when there are much better books to read out there. ...more This was so much fun to read. It wasn't the usual vampire paranormal book but it was fun to read something different. Reviewed on 05/07/2012 Reasons to read this book: \u2022 If you just finish reading a dystopian book, where everyone is starving to death and fighting for survival, and want to get rid of that serious face and that line on your forehead. \u2022 If you just finish reading a dystopian book where everyone is starving to death and fighting for survival, and you want eat chocolate ice cream without feeling guilty for all of those starving kids in the book. \u2022 If you had a tough week at work and want to let out so Reviewed on 05/07/2012 Reasons to read this book: \u2022\tIf you just finish reading a dystopian book, where everyone is starving to death and fighting for survival, and want to get rid of that serious face and that line on your forehead. \u2022\tIf you just finish reading a dystopian book where everyone is starving to death and fighting for survival, and you want eat chocolate ice cream without feeling guilty for all of those starving kids in the book. \u2022\tIf you had a tough week at work and want to let out some steam. \u2022\tIf you want to laugh. \u2022\tIf you like hot vampires. \u2022\tIf you like silly and entertaining books, just for fun. \u2022\tIf you like puppies and rainbows. \u2022\tIf you aren\u2019t an asshole. \u2022\tI don\u2019t have more reasons, just read the dam book! The Plot - I didn\u2019t pay much attention to it, but it\u2019s a simple one. Some weird creatures attack Betsy one night, a few months later she is ran over and dies. Then she wakes up dead. LoL Now she is a vamp and a very strong one. She is the Queen of the Vamps and so she is thrown in to the middle of a battle between the vamps that only she can put an end. See? Not that complicated nor original. The Characters - They are wonderful. I love Betsy and her babblishy way. She can talk nonstop for days. LoL About anything and anywhere. She says the funniest things in the strangest moments. She gives the super bad vamp a nickname and laugh straight to his face. LoL Her love for shoes is adorable and, well, I kind have a girl crush on her, she is so cute and lovable. E is, wow, I mean, wow, I like, I can\u2019t even, glrisnddl. *cough* Sorry, my drool got in the way. Ok, E is strong, cocky *giggle* and very, very, well, very everything. LoLI would totally be his snack. *wink* M and J are the best friends a Queen Vamp could ever had. They both drool over E as well so you know they have good taste in man LoL. It has a lot more characters, but I\u2019ll let you get to know them when you read the book. Yeah, I\u2019m evil like that. The Writing - This author can write her ass off. For realz. This is the first book I read and it won\u2019t be the last, that\u2019s for sure. She has charisma in her pen and the power to brighten my day and make a fool out of me. Really. I had a giggle fit in the middle of an office full of people and had to pretend I was choking on water. That didn\u2019t make me look cool, at all. I had many other embarrassing situations like that during the reading of this book, but I don\u2019t regret one minute of it. The Audio recording - OH MY GOSH!!! It\u2019s like the cherry on top of the awesomeness ice cream. PERFECT. The jokes and the way she read the lines, funniest reading evah!!!! The audio don\u2019t have a soundtrack, it\u2019s read by one person and the tone and volume are pleasant and nice to the ears. The only thing I didn\u2019t like all that much was the reading of the guys. She tried and I give her credit for it, but in some parts where it should be serious and stuff I was laughing cose the voice was so funny LoL. It would be better if a guy had read the guy parts, but that didn\u2019t make me want to stop listening or give up the series. She is a great narrator and I\u2019ll certainly listen to the others books in the series. Considerations - I love this book. That\u2019s it. Do you need more than that? Ok, ok, but is not going to be much more helpful than what you\u2019ve read until now. So, I\u2019ll do an analogy to make you understand how awesome this book is. Imagine a cupcake. A beautiful and lovely cupcake, just like this one. You look at it and think of rainbows and sparkly unicorns, right? But what you don\u2019t know is that inside of it there\u2019s a surprise. It\u2019s filled with dark chocolate, rich and silky. The kind that dissolves in your tongue and fills your mouth making you go *hummmmmm* and close your eyes to save it the experience. Are you feeling me? Yes? This is pretty much how this book is to me. Once you read this book, you\u2019ll totally agree with me about the chocolate part. LoL Now, GO.READ.THE.BOOK! This Reading is Part of The Following Reading Challenges: For more go to: ...more \u201cJust because I\u2019m dead doesn\u2019t mean I can\u2019t have a life.\u201d Based on the cover, I thought it would be a light story and it was. I hadn\u2019t really read the blurb before I started reading. At the beginning, it looked like a PNR parody, featuring all the vampire clich\u00e9s, but the author makes a success out of using them. The narration is smart, as the story is told by Betsy\u2019s viewpoint, so you can comprehend and experience things with her. I love Betsy, there is much potential in her character. She is \u201cJust because I\u2019m dead doesn\u2019t mean I can\u2019t have a life.\u201d Based on the cover, I thought it would be a light story and it was. I hadn\u2019t really read the blurb before I started reading. At the beginning, it looked like a PNR parody, featuring all the vampire clich\u00e9s, but the author makes a success out of using them. The narration is smart, as the story is told by Betsy\u2019s viewpoint, so you can comprehend and experience things with her. I love Betsy, there is much potential in her character. She is a newbie vampire, with distinguishing abilities. She has to learn much about her vampire nature, but also has to rise to the challenge of her new position in the vampire society. Betsy\u2019s haphazard attitude, her independence, and her cheerful, cool behavior result in a lot of funny situations. I enjoyed the situational comedy elements, the witty, laugh-out-loud dialogues, Betsy\u2019s playful ripostes, and her sarcastic tendency to rename people. The world-building has shortcomings, but it doesn\u2019t lessen the entertainment value of the story. Anyway, I don\u2019t expect a complex vampire mythology from such a light, funny book. The sex scenes are surprising, light, and intensely erotic without some sickly sweet romantic bullshit. As for the romance, I\u2019m satisfied that there is no remarkable romance here, I guess it comes later. As the first book of a series, starring the same main character all along, it is absolutely fine. Nevertheless, I hope it won\u2019t be over-elongated either. My expectations are high. Undead and Unwed is a great starter book of the Undead series, and it is highly different from the paranormal romances I\u2019ve read before. I enjoyed every single line of it! Originally posted on my blog on April 10, 2013. My favorite quotes. ...more Undead and Unwed is the first book in the series featuring Betsy Taylor. Betsy is a young secretary who is attacked and then two months later run over by a car. She wakes up in a coffin and realises things are not quite right. Betsy is fun, witty and loves shoes *a girl after my own heart* and after many attempts at trying to end her undead life, as her life pretty much sucked after losing her job, she realises that she cannot kill herself as she is now a vampire. She's also fairly independent, * Undead and Unwed is the first book in the series featuring Betsy Taylor. Betsy is a young secretary who is attacked and then two months later run over by a car. She wakes up in a coffin and realises things are not quite right. Betsy is fun, witty and loves shoes *a girl after my own heart* and after many attempts at trying to end her undead life, as her life pretty much sucked after losing her job, she realises that she cannot kill herself as she is now a vampire. She's also fairly independent, *apart from the cheques her father sends her every month* and so is not particularly fussed about following 'vampire rules'. But what seems to be the norm for other vampires doesn't really apply to Betsy. While other vampires cringe at the word 'God', Betsy can use it whenever she pleases, and she does with much pleasure. Items such as holy water and crosses burn other vamps but Betsy isn't affected and can even wear a cross around her neck with no problems at all. There is a side affect to this. It seems one of the Master vampires, Nostro, is threatened by her gifts and doesn't like the fact that she is different. He either wants her to join his band of merry vamps or die. When confronted by Nostro, instead of shriveling back in fear, Betsy thinks that it's all a bit 'hollywood' and finds herself with the giggles. Before Nostro can set his fiends upon her, another Master vampire swoops in and rescues her. This other Master vampire is Eric Sinclair, Betsy's very delicious love interest, although I'm not sure if he is totally trustworthy. Because of her unusual gifts, Sinclair believes that Betsy is the Vampire Queen and needs her help to overthrow Nostro. He also knows about her love for Jimmy Choo and so bribes her by threatening to burn each pair until she agrees... Of course this means she has no choice but to help! The story is fast-paced, energetic and very funny. I really enjoyed the interactions between Betsy and Sinclair, her witty, catty remarks were just brilliant. I also liked her friends Jessica and Marc. They are a great addition to the cast of characters and hope they are developed further in future books. Verdict: This is a very entertaining read and I absolutely loved it. So much so that I wenta-one-clickin' on Amazon and somehow managed to buy the entire series! *don't tell the hubster* This is a quick read at only 260 pages (some of the other books in the series are even shorter), but there's lots to keep you entertained from beginning to end. ...more This book is such a cheese fest but delicious all the same. It's exactly the kind of book you'd read when you're down because the ridiculousness of it is just so endearing as a whole. The heroine, Betsy(yeap), is a newly made Undead and not happy about it, especially considering that what she's seen of the world of vampires so far is sooo last year. She loves her designer shoes, they make her world go round, hates her stepmother, loves her awfully rich best friend and absolutely hates the badly d This book is such a cheese fest but delicious all the same. It's exactly the kind of book you'd read when you're down because the ridiculousness of it is just so endearing as a whole. The heroine, Betsy(yeap), is a newly made Undead and not happy about it, especially considering that what she's seen of the world of vampires so far is sooo last year. She loves her designer shoes, they make her world go round, hates her stepmother, loves her awfully rich best friend and absolutely hates the badly dresses vampires that seem to be after her. Betsy is, like the rest of the book, full of fluff and silliness but in the end it just works for me. Apart from that we have too many gay people, which I don't really mind at all. Ridiculous gay characters are the best. We have cheesy lines, even cheesier sex scenes and way too cheesy vampire politics. If you're looking for a book with depth, just look the other way. If you want something funny and fluffy this is your book. ...more I will only read the sequels only when I have a lot, and a lot of time to kill. Goddddd, it's hard to know how to categorize some books. It's marked as Paranormal Romance, so I suppose I'll leave it at that. The story itself isn't heavy on the romance department as it's focal point, but instead is of a young woman coming to terms with her new undead status, vampires in her life trying to convince her she's the foretold queen savior, and embracing her love of designer shoes. Top this off with her best friend and new sidekick, a homosexual who has the hots for the vamp who ha Goddddd, it's hard to know how to categorize some books. It's marked as Paranormal Romance, so I suppose I'll leave it at that. The story itself isn't heavy on the romance department as it's focal point, but instead is of a young woman coming to terms with her new undead status, vampires in her life trying to convince her she's the foretold queen savior, and embracing her love of designer shoes. Top this off with her best friend and new sidekick, a homosexual who has the hots for the vamp who has the hots for HER, and a strange and unsettling father-daughter-stepmother (stepmonster) relationship. Comedy laden, this book was a delight to start but I soon feared it would fall short as the humor never let up. I was in the vein for some serious stuff - somewhere - and I do think that would have improved it a bit, but it was still funny as hell and completely readable. The main character is a valley girl type, completely obsessed with shoes and fashion, judgmental and constantly spurting out almost annoying, slang-filled one liners. Yes, sometimes this was tiresome, but other times I genuinely laughed. She's clearly self-centered and not the brightest candle in the room, yet her personality as an average is amiable and her spunk high. I loved her best friend, Jessie, and the sidekick Mark (who seemed adorable in almost every way). The main vamp sounds incredibly sexy and I loved his domineering manner, even if I didn't blame Betsy for wanting to slug him half the time for his smugness. I especially grew errr, warm, with the scene of him in the alley and at the beginning with the finger. Grrrrroowwwwl. The ending with Betsy and him (Sinclair) was cleverly amusing and I didn't see it from a mile away. What a great turn-around! Undead and Unwed stayed alive with active pacing. From chapter one the stakes are high and the plot is hell bent on being something strangely different. This is no average vampire tale by far; in fact, I've never read anything even remotely close. It's not something anyone would grow bored with, as action is always taking place and Betsy's never able to settle down for a simple breather. Her 'differences' as a vampire were a nice touch as well, especially loving the part where she got out of the car and \"yawned\" in the sun, not thinking about the typical vampire rules. There are a few very sexual scenes, although that does not dominate the book by far. The romance impact is not high, more like the bickering fun lust-filled hero and heroine who you want to get together, but are not sure they really will (at least in this book, anyway). I'll leave what happens between them - if anything - a surprise. You can never say I ruin a book with my reviews *evil grin* On the violence side, there's some head crashing here and there but nothing strenuous. Overall the book was laugh-out-loud hilarious, a different vein of vampire novels, with a main character you can't help but like (even if at times she's temporarily annoying enough to where you almost put down the book), and a hero you couldn't help but almost love. *wiggles brows* I'll definitely read more of this series, especially with an ending like that. ...more Elizabeth Taylor. Betsy for short. Life's been tough on her. Betsy got laid off. It's her birthday and she's too depressed to even celebrate. Then she gets hit by a car and dies. Well, not exactly, for she wakes up a few days later and she's in a freaking coffin. While life has been cruel on her, her death hasn't been easy on her either. She's an odd freak of nature. It's not exactly normal to be walking after you shattered your skull into pieces. She tries killing herself, but to no avail, nothin Elizabeth Taylor. Betsy for short. Life's been tough on her. Betsy got laid off. It's her birthday and she's too depressed to even celebrate. Then she gets hit by a car and dies. Well, not exactly, for she wakes up a few days later and she's in a freaking coffin. While life has been cruel on her, her death hasn't been easy on her either. She's an odd freak of nature. It's not exactly normal to be walking after you shattered your skull into pieces. She tries killing herself, but to no avail, nothing really works. After talking to a priest, she manages to think of herself, not as an abomination. She could hold crosses, so it could mean that God forgives her, right? Well, things begin to become great. Betsy's friend, Jessica will handle her finances. She manages to save a man, named Mark from attempting suicide. Then there's this vampire Eric Sinclair, who's tall, dark and sinister, on her heels. I should also mention that the guy in mention is 6'4\", with thick inky black hair swept at the back, strong nose, good chin and broad shoulders, its ever a wonder how he fits through doors. And she's Queen of the Vampires. Scratch that. Aside from her inability to burn in sunlight, no pain when touched with holy water, not needing to feed as often as normal vampires do, could stand holding crosses, could say and recite the Lord's name and prayer without burning to the ground, and her impeccable fashion sense, she's not fit to be a vampire queen. She couldn't even remember names. Nostro, nostril. Sinclair, Sink Lair. What's the difference? To her it all sounds like the same mumbo jumbo. And should I mention that Betsy lisps when her fangs are out? How unglamorous it would be, to give speeches to her minions and lisp. But I should warn you, this vampire could be bribed to become queen. Just choose the right Prada heels and so. Hmm, I should warn you about this book though. The cover looks decent and harmless, I actually thought this book was like chick-lit. But no, there are sex scenes in vivid detail, I felt like I was watching pornography. BTW, Eric Sinclair for me is dreamy. Aside from the good looks that comes with the package, not to mention his package itself which is also described in vivid detail, he's willing to bribe his girl with Manalo Blahnik shoes until forgiven. What more could a girl ask for? ...more This is the first in the Queen Betsy series by Mary Janice Davidson. Absolutely Hysterical. I would be reading along and burst out laughing. I loved it. Her name is Elizabeth Taylor (Betsy) and she looses her job then is hit and killed by a car all in the same morning! Then she wakes up in the morgue dressed in cheap shoes! She also has a shoe fetish. Everyone should read it! Title of the German edition: Weiblich, ledig, untot Elizabeth \"Betsy\" Taylor is hit by a car, dies, wakes up in her coffin and realizes shes not dead but a vampire. But not our common vampire, no! She still can go into churches, a cross and holy water doesnt affect her and sunlight is no problem. No wonder that other vampires are inclined to believe shes the prophesied vampire queen. But Betsy just wants to live her life exactly like before she became a vampire shes totally uninterested in vampir Title of the German edition: Weiblich, ledig, untot Elizabeth \"Betsy\" Taylor is hit by a car, dies, wakes up in her coffin and realizes she\u00b4s not dead but a vampire. But not our common vampire, no! She still can go into churches, a cross and holy water doesn\u00b4t affect her and sunlight is no problem. No wonder that other vampires are inclined to believe she\u00b4s the prophesied vampire queen. But Betsy just wants to live her life exactly like before she became a vampire she\u00b4s totally uninterested in vampire politics. Because of her unique abilities the vampire leader Nostro wants to bring her under his control but his antagonist Eric Sinclair wants to prevent that and bring her \u2013 of course \u2013 under HIS control. Seemingly Betsy jumps out of the frying pan into the fire... A very entertaining book with exactly the sense of humor I like to read. It\u00b4s so much fun to follow Betsy into her new \"life\" and to read about her unconventional opinions what a vampire should do and her tries to adjust to her new status. A nice twist was her annoyance when her elongated canines show and she starts lisping and tries to avoid every word with the letter \"s\" in it. And her bickering with Sinclair and his frustration about Betsy\u00b4s compassion and obstinacy made me laugh out loud more than once. All in all I enjoyed reading this book immensely and I\u00b4m looking forward to read more in this series. Website of the author: http://www.maryjanicedavidson.net/ ...more This book was absolutely ridiculous and I loved it! Betsy is a total loon. She is obsessed with shoes and she's quite vain but she's also hilariously sarcastic. She takes nothing seriously. In real life I know I would probably hate her but I absolutely love reading about her and her life. What I did not like about this book was Sinclair. It's like the whole Charlie Davidison and Reyes all over again. I have read a few reviews and most of them go on and on about how amazing Sinclair is and I'm sit This book was absolutely ridiculous and I loved it! Betsy is a total loon. She is obsessed with shoes and she's quite vain but she's also hilariously sarcastic. She takes nothing seriously. In real life I know I would probably hate her but I absolutely love reading about her and her life. What I did not like about this book was Sinclair. It's like the whole Charlie Davidison and Reyes all over again. I have read a few reviews and most of them go on and on about how amazing Sinclair is and I'm sitting here like.. what are you people smoking?.. He picks her up, shoves his finger in her mouth (he's a complete strangers at this point), I know he seeks her out to try and help her but he does it in such a creepy way, he uses his food (he treats them well and they don't seem to mind but still), he's snobby and arrogant and I just don't get why everyone loves him!!! OH and the huge reason I don't like him..he tricks Betsy. He doesn't reveal the whole truth and put himself in a great situation where Betsy doesn't have any kind of choice. So I hate him. This book was fun and breezy and it an interesting story. I mean there wasn't a whole lot of substance but thats kind of what I liked about it. Sometimes it's nice to have to think when I read :) Posted to: http://megansbookmadness.blogspot.com... ...more I found Mary Janice Davidson through a recommendation on Barnes and Noble based on previous authors (Janet Evanovich I'm assuming) I've read. I decided to give the first one \"Undead and Unwed\" a try and was very pleasantly surprised. I was a little saddened/embarrassed to see that it was filed in the romance section with the cheesy romance novels, but it didn't feel like that was what I was reading. Very similar to the Janet Evanovich novels it has a hilarious heroine Betsy (Elizabeth) Taylor wh I found Mary Janice Davidson through a recommendation on Barnes and Noble based on previous authors (Janet Evanovich I'm assuming) I've read. I decided to give the first one \"Undead and Unwed\" a try and was very pleasantly surprised. I was a little saddened/embarrassed to see that it was filed in the romance section with the cheesy romance novels, but it didn't feel like that was what I was reading. Very similar to the Janet Evanovich novels it has a hilarious heroine Betsy (Elizabeth) Taylor who has a little of a potty mouth and it's written in such a way that you feel your hanging out with a good girlfriend hearing about her exploits. It's not a traditional mystery, but has mystery to it for sure and you're dying to find out what's going on. Then there is some romance for us romantics and a little more erotic detail than needed, but no more than a couple of pages and it's not nearly as bad as a Danielle Steele Novel. It's about a vampire queen and I don't normally like vampire novels, but to be honest it was written in such a way I forget it's a vampire novel. I laughed out loud while on the edge of my seat and couldn't put it down. I highly recommend it!! ...more 5 Stars: I love vampire books! The heroine Betsy is hilarious and you can completely relate to her. The jokes come fast and furious in a laugh aloud quick read. It will be a pleasure to see how the story develops in future volumes. Patiently waiting to read what is next for Queen Elizabeth and her new Consort as it is bound to be another terrific adventure. My absolute favorite and will read again and again. I strongly recommend! It has outstanding qualities. The characters are wonderful and surp 5 Stars: I love vampire books! The heroine Betsy is hilarious and you can completely relate to her. The jokes come fast and furious in a laugh aloud quick read. It will be a pleasure to see how the story develops in future volumes. Patiently waiting to read what is next for Queen Elizabeth and her new Consort as it is bound to be another terrific adventure. My absolute favorite and will read again and again. I strongly recommend! It has outstanding qualities. The characters are wonderful and surprising and multi-dimensional. The writing is luring, engaging, and well-crafted enough to keep me interested from cover to cover and beyond. The plot is astonishing with twists and turns weaved into a well thought and planned story. There\u2019s no pretense and romance was well balanced and done entirely correctly with properly distributed amounts of hints, behaviors and incredible, undeniable chemistry. Predictability is at an all-time low. With the exception of series based books that follow the same path but are just as good. Overall, Favorite, must read again, recommend!!! ...more Uh, where to start. This book is a very bland sort of read. The thrills aren't really thrilly, the action doesn't really happen and the romance is just unromantic. There are some funny bits, but far too few and the rest of the jokes forced. The main character, Betsy (great name) is a spunky blonde shoe-aholic, or at least she's meant to be. At least the author knows her character is a raving brat and tries to run with it. This book requires the reader to suspend their disbelief - mainly by using Uh, where to start. This book is a very bland sort of read. The thrills aren't really thrilly, the action doesn't really happen and the romance is just unromantic. There are some funny bits, but far too few and the rest of the jokes forced. The main character, Betsy (great name) is a spunky blonde shoe-aholic, or at least she's meant to be. At least the author knows her character is a raving brat and tries to run with it. This book requires the reader to suspend their disbelief - mainly by using a bargepole. I kept asking in my head, \"Yeah, but how often does having a billionaire best friend happen?\" even though Betsy is a vampire queen. I know, I know, the most insignificant things get caught in my mind-maw, but when they do they irritate the hell out of me. For all it's blandness, it's all right, for a fluff-book. For something to push back the gut gnawing cravings for the next book in the current it series. Very much like Kitty and the midnight hour and Dead until Dark . ...more I have no idea why an author would make a narrator so incredibly unlikeable. Her rabid materialism is offputting, she mouths off to everyone, she juvenilely makes insipid puns on the names of people she doesn't like. She dislikes other characters for no apparent reason. She rips off jokes from Clueless , among other places. She's a registered Republican who knows nothing about the issues; a PETA member who gets sanctimonious about animal testing but still eats meat. She insists that the slaves ha I have no idea why an author would make a narrator so incredibly unlikeable. Her rabid materialism is offputting, she mouths off to everyone, she juvenilely makes insipid puns on the names of people she doesn't like. She dislikes other characters for no apparent reason. She rips off jokes from Clueless , among other places. She's a registered Republican who knows nothing about the issues; a PETA member who gets sanctimonious about animal testing but still eats meat. She insists that the slaves had it good in Gone with the Wind , and she's not joking. She gets in a racially motivated fight with a black woman and is a total asshole about it. Don't get me wrong, I like light entertainment as much as the next person. But there's a difference between light entertainment and trash, and the trash is where this book belongs. ...more 3.5 In the library, this book stands at the chick lit section. Not sure if I can agree they got the genre right, but if they did, it's definitely weirdest and most bizarre chick lit I've ever read. And the most entertaining one! This is what the True Blood series would be like if it was written by Sophie Kinsella. A book that makes it obvious we shouldn't take it too seriously, and I enjoyed every bit of it! I understand this is a funny version of vampires, but (now maybe it is because I am not a shoe hound) it didn't do much for me. It had some really funny parts that had me literally laughing out loud (got a few strange looks), but for the most part I found Betsy materialistic (obviously), distractable (self proclaimed) and sort of \"Valley-girl\" meets \"Sex in the City\" stupid (for the lack of words to describe). A distraction from everyday paranormal, nothing like a romance even existed in it, but I understand this is a funny version of vampires, but (now maybe it is because I am not a shoe hound) it didn't do much for me. It had some really funny parts that had me literally laughing out loud (got a few strange looks), but for the most part I found Betsy materialistic (obviously), distractable (self proclaimed) and sort of \"Valley-girl\" meets \"Sex in the City\" stupid (for the lack of words to describe). A distraction from everyday paranormal, nothing like a romance even existed in it, but the laughs might be worth giving the series at least one more try - overall \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606\u2606 (being generous here). ...more<---A>MaryJanice Davidson</---A><---C>Tina</---C>", "Title": "Undead and Unwed"},
