{"Comments": "Book 23/100 for 2015 4.5/5 Like I've said before, I absolutely love <---A>Sophie Kinsella</---A>'s writing style. She creates such strong characters with very different personalities and has them get into the weirdest and funniest situations. I honestly thought I would get bored with this series as I kept reading on, but the opposite is actually true! I can't wait to read the fifth book, Shopaholic & Baby and laugh even more! These books annoy the heck out of me but for some odd reason I keep reading them. This time around Becky,<---M> the spoiled</---M>, materialistic bumble-head is unemployed and married to her sure to be long-suffering lover Luke. They spend the early part of the novel honeymooning around the globe for a year while Becky secretly spends all sorts of dough on silly trinkets and other assorted things (<---B>such as two dining room tables!</---B>) that Luke doesn't want or need. How the business savvy Luke remains oblivious t These books annoy the heck out of me but for some odd reason I keep reading them. This time around Becky, the spoiled, materialistic bumble-head is unemployed and married to her sure to be long-suffering lover Luke. They spend the early part of the novel honeymooning around the globe for a year while Becky secretly spends all sorts of dough on silly trinkets and other assorted things (such as two dining room tables!) that Luke doesn't want or need. How the business savvy Luke remains oblivious to her spending is beyond me but oblivious he is until they return home and the huge trucks arrive with all of her secret purchases. He frets about the finances and puts her on a budget and, of course, she has a secret credit card that allows her to continue to do major damage. Luke nearly works himself to death while Becky is off putting his career in jeopardy so she can buy a trendy bag. Serves him right for marrying the bubble-head, if you ask me. When Becky returns home from her travels she discovers she has a half sister and is overjoyed with visions of shopping, sleepovers, popcorn and spending endless hours watching Pretty Woman and Sleepless in Seattle with her new sis. It's difficult to believe this woman is nearing 30 because she thinks like a spoiled tween. Much to Becky's dismay she quickly learns that her new sister isn't all she dreamed her up to be. First off she hates shopping, is super thrifty, is an environmental activist and wisely wants nothing to do with Becky. Due to Becky's wildly self-destructive antics the new sis warms up to her and eventually opens up. This part of the book partially redeems Becky's silly behavior. As always, Becky means well in this novel and down deep has a good heart but she's such a materialistic airhead she makes me want to scream throughout most of the book. I'm sure I'll be back for more punishment when my library releases the next installment . . . ...more I feel like I SHOULD hate these books by now...they all follow the same pattern of \"Becky shops, Becky gets in trouble from shopping, Becky reforms and swears she'll do better.<---F>\" ALL the same</---F>. And yet, these books are all so funny and entertaining that I can't put them down. They're excellent for when I want to read something light, because they're well-written and they have such likable characters. I will have a hard time not reading the next one right away. In fact, I might not succeed in that. I feel like I SHOULD hate these books by now...they all follow the same pattern of \"Becky shops, Becky gets in trouble from shopping, Becky reforms and swears she'll do better.\" ALL the same. And yet, these books are all so funny and entertaining that I can't put them down. They're excellent for when I want to read something light, because they're well-written and they have such likable characters. I will have a hard time not reading the next one right away. In fact, I might not succeed in that. :) ...more By this book, <---C>Becky Bloomwood</---C> is too annoying to read about. It's the same crap over and over again, and after three books of reading the same jokes, she's no longer funny, she's infuriating. I think that's the problem with this series. Since the main character suffers from an addiction, she's obviously supposed to exhibit the same behavior time after time. But this series is supposed to be funny, and if you hear a joke too many times, it loses its humor. Not only that, but since Becky never sho By this book, Becky Bloomwood is too annoying to read about. It's the same crap over and over again, and after three books of reading the same jokes, she's no longer funny, she's infuriating. I think that's the problem with this series. Since the main character suffers from an addiction, she's obviously supposed to exhibit the same behavior time after time. But this series is supposed to be funny, and if you hear a joke too many times, it loses its humor. Not only that, but since Becky never shows any improvement in the subsequent novels, it makes their endings worthless. In each book, Becky has some big epiphany at the end and we're led to believe that she's going to be more level-headed about her shopping, but then every sequel starts with Becky acting just as stupid as she was in the very beginning. It kind of makes you feel like everything she goes through is for nothing. Becky also reaches extreme levels of stupidity--oops, I meant \"ditziness\"--in this novel. At least in the first two books she had SOME intelligence, but here she's just plain dumb. Sophie Kinsella has stated that she originally planned her \"Shopaholic\" series to end after the third one, in which Becky gets married to Luke. According to her, she just missed Becky too much and decided she had to bring her back! Well, it shows. This plot is extremely contrived. All of a sudden Becky has a long lost sister whose biggest personality trait is her hate for shopping? Gimme a break. It would've been a better move for Kinsella to just skip straight to \"Shopaholic & Baby\" (which also sucks but is better than this one) and not bother with such a dumb storyline. Personally, I think Kinsella should have ended this series after \"Shopaholic Takes Manhattan.\" ...more Another great addition to the Shopaholic series - Sophie Kinsella once again brings Becky, a quirky but lovable character back into the fray with a wonderful mix of weary world traveling, sisterhood and of course, more shopping!! We pick Becky up at the end of a 10-month honeymoon with her new hubbie Luke \u2013 they\u2019ve been all over the world and Becky\u2019s got a lot of shopping to show for it \u2013 but it\u2019s easy \u2013 she just buys and has it all shipped home \u2013 she\u2019ll worry about where to put it all later! Bec Another great addition to the Shopaholic series - Sophie Kinsella once again brings Becky, a quirky but lovable character back into the fray with a wonderful mix of weary world traveling, sisterhood and of course, more shopping!! We pick Becky up at the end of a 10-month honeymoon with her new hubbie Luke \u2013 they\u2019ve been all over the world and Becky\u2019s got a lot of shopping to show for it \u2013 but it\u2019s easy \u2013 she just buys and has it all shipped home \u2013 she\u2019ll worry about where to put it all later! Becky decides to surprise her parents and her best friend Suze \u2013 by arriving in England unexpectedly. Becky\u2019s in for a rude surprise \u2013 she seems to have been forgotten by her best friend Suze, who\u2019s had twins since Becky left for her honeymoon and along with the twins, she\u2019s got a brand new buddy that doesn\u2019t seemed too thrilled about Becky\u2019s return. Even her parents don\u2019t seem too thrilled to see her and there\u2019s some girl lurking in the background \u2013 who can she be? Well, Becky finds out that she\u2019s got a sister. It seems that before her parents met, Becky\u2019s dad had a romance with a flight attendant and never knew that she\u2019d had a baby girl that she named Jessica. Becky is thrilled to hear about her sister and decides that the best way to bond is by\u2026what else? Shopping!! She quickly learns that Jess doesn\u2019t like shopping (Gasp!) and basically finds Becky to be irresponsible and shallow. Becky is determined to change her sisters\u2019 mind and travels to the English countryside where Jess lives in order to bridge the gap and find her way into her sisters\u2019 heart. Will Becky and Jess become soul mates? Will Jess learn to love shopping? Sophie Kinsella delights her readers once again as she takes us on adventure to find out! During all the action, we get the story from Luke\u2019s perspective a little more \u2013 we see why he loves Becky so much and in seeing her through his eyes, we learn to love her just a little bit more! I read a few books between the last book (\u2026Ties the Knot) and this one, but I found myself falling back into the story easily - It was nice to hear about Becky again! This was a fun story and the ending leads you right into the next book in the series \u2013 that\u2019s right, I think it might be time for our Shopaholic to have a Baby!! ...more The typical Becky Bloomwood one chapter she broke my heart and made me laughing so much in the next one. Jess the new addition to the story I like her. Luke I love him but sometimes He annoy me because he seems so clueless . I really loved this book and reading it made my day. Saya membaca buku #4 seri Shopaholic ini, melompati #2 dan #3 (karena tidak punya terjemahannya hihihi). Diawali dgn Becky dan Luke di penghujung bulan madu mereka di Sri Lanka, Becky memutuskan utk ikut Luke pd kunjungan bisnis di Milan, Italy. Siapa nyana Becky malah ketemu konglomerat baik hati yg menolongnya mendapatkan tas Angel yg sangat dia idam-idamkan, yg selalu dia tunjuk2 dr majalah ke depan hidung Luke. Becky sengaja mau memberi kejutan kepulangan mendadak di London. Eh malah Becky yg Saya membaca buku #4 seri Shopaholic ini, melompati #2 dan #3 (karena tidak punya terjemahannya hihihi). Diawali dgn Becky dan Luke di penghujung bulan madu mereka di Sri Lanka, Becky memutuskan utk ikut Luke pd kunjungan bisnis di Milan, Italy. Siapa nyana Becky malah ketemu konglomerat baik hati yg menolongnya mendapatkan tas Angel yg sangat dia idam-idamkan, yg selalu dia tunjuk2 dr majalah ke depan hidung Luke. Becky sengaja mau memberi kejutan kepulangan mendadak di London. Eh malah Becky yg dapat kejutan. Setelah kesal \"dikacangin\" oleh Suze dan Lulu (teman baik terbaru Suze) di pesta permandian anak kembar mereka, Becky gembira dan kelewat antusias menerima kabar bhw dia memiliki seorang kakak sungguhan, Jess. Apa yg diharapkan Becky berbeda dgn kenyataan. Jess sangat bertolak belakang dgn Becky. Jess tidak suka shopping, tidak suka make up, tidak suka menonton film-film romantis. Jess hanya suka batu-batuan konyol. Jess pelit dan memperhitungkan segala pengeluarannya. Jess mencela cara belanja Becky yg super fun dan mengguncang adrenalin. Jess menganggap Becky konyol. Becky makin sedih ketika Luke mengiyakan bhw hidup bersama Becky itu SULIT. Kebiasaan Becky yg selalu mengacaukan hidup Luke masih berlanjut di buku ini. Barang2 belanjaan selama bulan madu datang dgn 2 truk kontainer penuh. Becky yg kreatif menjual sebagian besar barang2 tsb di eBay, tetapi dia swap dgn mantel vintage. Becky masih menyembunyikan pertemuannya dgn Nathan Temple (konglomerat yg menolongnya mendapatkan tas Angel tsb) krn asumsi Luke bhw org ini bajingan. Becky mengatakan Luke \"sakit\" dlm rangka menolak keinginan Nathan utk menggunakan perusahaan PR Luke. Hei, siapa sangka Nathan tetap gigih menunggu \"kesembuhan\" Luke? Luke yg jengkel setengah mampus pada Becky, meninggalkan Becky utk kunjungan bisnisnya menemui Nathan di Cyprus. Saat itulah Becky merasa di titik nadir kesepian. Dan secepat kilat, secara impulsif Becky mendatangi Jess. Dan kedatangan Becky disambut dingin oleh Jess yg sudah menganggap Becky itu gila. Becky nyaris menyerah, tapi selalu saja muncul suatu ide di saat2 terakhir dan kritis. Semakin membaca buku ini, saya hrs makin mengakui kejeniusan author mengolah karakter Becky Brandon (d.h. Bloomwood) ini. Becky ini karakter wanita \"kacau\" tapi bisa dipaparkan oleh author betapa premium kualitas Becky, baik positif maupun negatifnya, yg senantiasa membuat saya terpukau. Becky memang kecanduan belanja, tapi dia adalah orang yg paling loyal dan selalu melihat sisi terbaik dari setiap diri orang lain. Saya terharu membaca cara persahabatan Becky dan Suze, yg selalu tahu dan punya insting kepekaan bhw Becky mengalami \"bencana\". Becky mengubah cara pandang orang2 di sekitarnya, di saat dia sendiri berusaha menjadi orang spt Jess (yg tentu saja impossible) dan lebih dewasa. Dan Becky akan tetap selalu mengganggu ketenangan hidup Luke sampai akhir hayat mereka. ...more I was nervous when I started reading this one due to many of the negative reviews, but I have to say, I was happily surprised! I just became a fan of the Shopaholic series and I just love Becky & Luke! I really didn't think their relationship was given enough attention in this first book, but it picked up from there and I will have to say the reader really gets to get in deep with their relationship in this book. I have to agree with a previous reviewer who compared Becky to Lucy Ricardo - t I was nervous when I started reading this one due to many of the negative reviews, but I have to say, I was happily surprised! I just became a fan of the Shopaholic series and I just love Becky & Luke! I really didn't think their relationship was given enough attention in this first book, but it picked up from there and I will have to say the reader really gets to get in deep with their relationship in this book. I have to agree with a previous reviewer who compared Becky to Lucy Ricardo - that's exactly who she reminds me of. In Sister, I did not find myself feeling as frustrated with Becky for not owning up sooner. Unlike others, I thought she had grown more in this book. She seemed to own up to her mistakes much quicker (there were just SEVERAL to own up to in this book). I really think this one was my all time fave of the series. I have the next one (Baby) ordered already and can't wait to read it. But I do admit that I'm a little sad that it's the last one. I really hope Sophie Kinsella finds a way to bring us more Luke & Becky! ...more What the fuck? WHEN IS BECKY GOING TO LEARN HOW TO BE A HALF WAY REASONABLE HUMAN BEING??? Oh my god, I just get increasingly ANGRY at her inability to be ration for more than two seconds. I don't understand how this woman is supposedly an adult. How long does it take to figure out that LYING and HIDING STUFF never is a good idea? Especially when she does it? This girl just doesn't learn. Maybe I just hate when people unnecessarily lie to their partners and best friends. And I am totally pissed at What the fuck? WHEN IS BECKY GOING TO LEARN HOW TO BE A HALF WAY REASONABLE HUMAN BEING??? Oh my god, I just get increasingly ANGRY at her inability to be ration for more than two seconds. I don't understand how this woman is supposedly an adult. How long does it take to figure out that LYING and HIDING STUFF never is a good idea? Especially when she does it? This girl just doesn't learn. Maybe I just hate when people unnecessarily lie to their partners and best friends. And I am totally pissed at Danny for being a flake. ...more Irresistible, one-woman shopping phenomenon Becky Bloomwood is back in this hilarious, heartwarming, New York Times bestselling tale of married life, best friends, and long-lost sisters (and the perils of simply having to own an Angel handbag!). Honestly, this was my least favorite of the series butttttt I still enjoyed it. How could you not? We are reading about Becky's amazing life. Add a long-lost sister who is not into clothes, shoes, and handbags, oh my! Well, you are going to get a cute an Irresistible, one-woman shopping phenomenon Becky Bloomwood is back in this hilarious, heartwarming, New York Times bestselling tale of married life, best friends, and long-lost sisters (and the perils of simply having to own an Angel handbag!). Honestly, this was my least favorite of the series butttttt I still enjoyed it. How could you not? We are reading about Becky's amazing life. Add a long-lost sister who is not into clothes, shoes, and handbags, oh my! Well, you are going to get a cute and fun read. ...more This was an amazing read. This is my ninth Sophie Kinsella story, and fourth book of the Shopaholic series. I loved every minute of it. The humor in her stories makes the book more enjoyable. I loved Becky. She is a silly, yet lovable main female character. Luke is an amazing male character. He may be an entrepreneur, but I love how he is able to love Becky even though she has her flaws and quirks. I really loved this book. We get to see more into the change of Becky's character. She went from b This was an amazing read. This is my ninth Sophie Kinsella story, and fourth book of the Shopaholic series. I loved every minute of it. The humor in her stories makes the book more enjoyable. I loved Becky. She is a silly, yet lovable main female character. Luke is an amazing male character. He may be an entrepreneur, but I love how he is able to love Becky even though she has her flaws and quirks. I really loved this book. We get to see more into the change of Becky's character. She went from being obsessed shopper to a bit of a brat to sensible human being. I know she has tendencies that make her annoying, but the rest of the time she makes me laugh. I thought we got to see more into their marriage and it showed how a marriage really is. Also, I really liked the ending and the fact that it hints to the next book. Can't wait for Shopaholic & Baby. Overall, a fantastic read. ...more It's really hard to rate this book because on one hand it was completely addictive but on the other, I was majorly disappointed with the way Becky was acting. At the expense of comedy, she took her stupidity to a whole new level. Becky and Luke's honeymoon around the world has come to an end and they're ready to get back into the lives they left behind in England. Wanting to surprise her parents and her best friend Suze, Becky returns home without warning but their reactions are not what she is It's really hard to rate this book because on one hand it was completely addictive but on the other, I was majorly disappointed with the way Becky was acting. At the expense of comedy, she took her stupidity to a whole new level. Becky and Luke's honeymoon around the world has come to an end and they're ready to get back into the lives they left behind in England. Wanting to surprise her parents and her best friend Suze, Becky returns home without warning but their reactions are not what she is expecting. Suze is juggling with her kids and appears to have made a new best friend and her parents act shady as they prepare to break some news to Becky (no surprise, since it's in the book title: Becky has a sister)! The sisters are so different but Becky is prepared to make it work and it's a tough job. Even worse, Luke and Becky's relationship becomes rocky when Becky meddles in his job and gets caught up in a long period of lying and avoiding the problem at whatever cost. To be fair, Becky always manages to redeem herself and I enjoy the last few chapters the most. She always manages to revert back to her annoying ways at the start of a new book. I'm hoping in Shopaholic and Baby she will be more responsible throughout! ...more I almost passed this along unread. I started the book, and set it aside shortly afterwards as I remembered my unhappiness with Becky's charecter from Shopaholic takes Manhatten, and Shopaholic Ties the Knot. Then I picked it up and got past my first inital stopping point and wow was I surprised. Yeah the format was the sam as the other books, Becky gets in over her head with a situatuation, lies to cover it up, then it blows out up to come crashing down around her and a happy reconciliation. But, I almost passed this along unread. I started the book, and set it aside shortly afterwards as I remembered my unhappiness with Becky's charecter from Shopaholic takes Manhatten, and Shopaholic Ties the Knot. Then I picked it up and got past my first inital stopping point and wow was I surprised. Yeah the format was the sam as the other books, Becky gets in over her head with a situatuation, lies to cover it up, then it blows out up to come crashing down around her and a happy reconciliation. But, this is the first book in the series that I have read in a loooong time that left me feeling like I did when I read the first book so many years past. Becky seems less shallow throughout this book, her charecter seems to grow more than in the last book especially. I'm interested in finding out more (i.e. reading Shopaholic and Baby), but I'm not sure if I'll continue the series or not at the moment. The book was a nice light read which I needed at the moment. see where this book travels next at: http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/2... ...more At A Glance Genre: Chick lit. Love Triangle/Insta Love?: Nope. Cliff Hanger: kinda! Rating: 4 Stars. Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 9 Characters: 9 World Building: 8 Flow: 9 Series Congruity: 9 Writing: 8 Ending: 8 Total: 8 In Dept Best Part: Good character development. Worst Part: I hated Jess, at first. Thoughts Had: Ugh Jess; Oh nooo; really?!? Conclusion Continuing the Series: yes Recommending: yes Short Review: I love this series. I am a bit irked at the ending, not gonna spoil, but lets say i don At A Glance Genre: Chick lit. Love Triangle/Insta Love?: Nope. Cliff Hanger: kinda! Rating: 4 Stars. Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 9 Characters: 9 World Building: 8 Flow: 9 Series Congruity: 9 Writing: 8 Ending: 8 Total: 8 In Dept Best Part: Good character development. Worst Part: I hated Jess, at first. Thoughts Had: Ugh Jess; Oh nooo; really?!? Conclusion Continuing the Series: yes Recommending: yes Short Review: I love this series. I am a bit irked at the ending, not gonna spoil, but lets say i don't see how they can just assume and go with it. Anyhow, bad Becky keeping secret credit cards in compacts, genius idea thou. Jess, Becky's Sister, annoyed the crap out of me greatly, untill the last 10% or so, then i fell in love with her :) I am excited to see how this goes next. ...more Whooossh this was soooo fun, i loved every second of it Becky and Luke have been married for ten months and are on honeymoon in Asia when the book opens. Though they have been enjoying themselves, they decide it is time to return to England. Luke immediately goes back into businessman-mode, cutting his hair and donning suits once more. Before returning home, they stop for a brief trip in Milan, where Luke is meeting a potential client. After totaling up the large number of purchases they have accrued during their trip, not to mention the cost of hote Becky and Luke have been married for ten months and are on honeymoon in Asia when the book opens. Though they have been enjoying themselves, they decide it is time to return to England. Luke immediately goes back into businessman-mode, cutting his hair and donning suits once more. Before returning home, they stop for a brief trip in Milan, where Luke is meeting a potential client. After totaling up the large number of purchases they have accrued during their trip, not to mention the cost of hotel stays, Becky agrees that she will not buy anything in Milan. But the chance of a lifetime comes along - an Angel bag, the It bag of the season which Becky simply has to have. A businessman helps Becky jump to the head of the waiting list, and Becky promises to pay him back somehow. Once back in England, Becky and Luke stop to visit the Bloomwood family and surprise them with their early return, but the Bloomwoods seem to be hiding something. Not only that, but they are not impressed with Becky's gifts and don't seem as excited as Becky had hoped. The next day, they go to the christening of Suze's twins. Unfortunately, Suze has befriended a local woman and mother of four, to whom she can relate to more than Becky. Becky's troubles become worse when two trucks full of her souvenirs arrive. With her new job not due to start for several months, Luke orders Becky to sort things out around the house with her spare time. Becky's parents arrive with big news - they didn't want to tell Becky initially, but she has a half-sister from a previous relationship of her father's. Becky is ecstatic - she claims that she has felt a hole in her life and has always wanted a sister. She imagines shopping, girls' nights in, and a new best friend to replace Suze. Once she meets her half-sister Jess, she is disappointed: Jess is studious, thrifty, and a bit standoffish. Jess tries to encourage Becky to save money; Becky can't comprehend why Jess doesn't want to do anything fun. Becky overhears Luke saying that she is hard to live with, and thinks that her marriage is over. After a falling-out with Jess, Becky decides to go to her home in northern England to learn to be thrifty. Jess has departed on a mountain climb on a gloomy day, and Becky follows to try to catch up. She ends up off the trail and falls. Luckily Jess watches over her and the two girls discover that though their interests are different, they have the same level of passion. The book ends with Becky helping Jess organize a protest against a new shopping mall (which turns out to be one of Luke's new clients) and Becky discovering that she is pregnant. ...more After the \u2018not so good\u2019 review I gave Shopaholic ties the Knot, I was rather hesitant to read the next Shopaholic book, which is <+++>Shopaholic and Sister</+++>. By the third book, all readers following these series know that Becky Bloomwood is an only child, so the title of the fourth book does stir up some curiosity. Well, to sum up my reaction to this book\u2026..I must declare that KINSELLA IS BACK! The author is just as witty and humorous as the first two Shopaholic novels, and I truly enjoyed reading her After the \u2018not so good\u2019 review I gave Shopaholic ties the Knot, I was rather hesitant to read the next Shopaholic book, which is <+++>Shopaholic and Sister</+++>. By the third book, all readers following these series know that Becky Bloomwood is an only child, so the title of the fourth book does stir up some curiosity. Well, to sum up my reaction to this book\u2026..I must declare that KINSELLA IS BACK! The author is just as witty and humorous as the first two Shopaholic novels, and I truly enjoyed reading her fourth book! One of my favorite scenes is reading Becky\u2019s obsession with acquiring the limited edition \u2018Angel Bag\u2019. Becky compares the rarity of the Angel Bag to the Bengal Tigers, wherein she describes the former as being even more extinct! So true! I have had many experiences like this in my when I justify my shopping splurges with \u2018I have to have this no matter what!\u2019 or \u2018this is a collector\u2019s item!\u2019 These are what I call the \u2018FF\u2019 moments\u2026aka Fashion Fanaticism! I also enjoyed the introduction of Jessica, who is Becky\u2019s long lost sister. She is also a fascinating character, and it is really nice to see how different she is from Becky, which often results into petty arguments between the two! Note that Ms. Kinsella barely made mention of Danny, who is Becky\u2019s NYC best friend. Thank goodness! He was absolutely annoying in the previous Shopaholic book that I truly wished he would not appear in the future novels. Perhaps Ms. Kinsella received a lot of negative feedback on him. There is also more of Suze in this book, who is Becky\u2019s longtime best friend. I like her, and she is definitely more endearing in this novel. ...more Whew. This book is wonderful. But Becky\u2019s really a bitch in Chapter 10-13. I am so annoyed with her I forgot that she\u2019s the heroine and Jess is just a supporting character or something. Hahaha. I side with her because Jess is fucking right. Damn Becky in this book. I\u2019m so annoyed I wanted to sleep already. But luckily, I decided not to and I slept at around 5 AM today! The fuck. I started reading it at 9 PM and finished reading it at 4 AM. 7 hours! Can you believe it? Because I can\u2019t. Hahahaha. Whew. This book is wonderful. But Becky\u2019s really a bitch in Chapter 10-13. I am so annoyed with her I forgot that she\u2019s the heroine and Jess is just a supporting character or something. Hahaha. I side with her because Jess is fucking right. Damn Becky in this book. I\u2019m so annoyed I wanted to sleep already. But luckily, I decided not to and I slept at around 5 AM today! The fuck. I started reading it at 9 PM and finished reading it at 4 AM. 7 hours! Can you believe it? Because I can\u2019t. Hahahaha. I usually finish a book in two days. But I can\u2019t believe that I can finish it in 7 hours straight. God. I slept at 5 AM because I read a few chapters of Shopaholic & Baby. And Becky\u2019s still annoying on the first chapters. Back to the review, I actually thought Jess was adopted or something. But she\u2019s not. They are related in blood. Then, Suze\u2019s also a bitch in this book. Can\u2019t she be just happy for Becky? Not at first. My head\u2019s really throbbing when I\u2019m right in the middle. Jess was so right. Fuck Becky. Anyways, I just can\u2019t blame Luke for being so pissed off. If I\u2019m Becky\u2019s husband, I\u2019d react the same. But the ending\u2026 Everything. Shit. As far as I can remember, the most wonderful chapters are 16-25. Shit. I cried. I fucking cried. Especially when Jess and Becky were stuck in the mountain. Then Suze. God. I can\u2019t read clearly the fucking whole time. My eyes were all watery and I am soaking my pillows with tears. The ending. Becky having a baby and Jess\u2019s letter. Hahahaha. This is my new favorite shopaholic book. Ties the knot\u2019s weak compared to this book. According to me, anyway. ...more I really enjoyed this one. My favourite since the first and definitely an improvement over the last instalment. In this 4th novel in the Shopaholic series, Becky meets her half sister that she didn't know she had, and to her disappointment, she's her polar opposite. So, obviously, we meet a new character. I didn't care much for Jess at first. She was a bit... actually no, a Lot extreme. I get she's thrifty and everything, but excited about getting free rotted bananas? Eeek. I did warm up to her I really enjoyed this one. My favourite since the first and definitely an improvement over the last instalment. In this 4th novel in the Shopaholic series, Becky meets her half sister that she didn't know she had, and to her disappointment, she's her polar opposite. So, obviously, we meet a new character. I didn't care much for Jess at first. She was a bit... actually no, a Lot extreme. I get she's thrifty and everything, but excited about getting free rotted bananas? Eeek. I did warm up to her at the end I guess. The long lost sister angle did add some emotional waves to the story, and we still had a lot of the good old gullible Becky and her inability to say No. I especially enjoy how she makes up these whole scenarios in her head of what she thinks she can make happen. It's so absurd that it's adorable. Her relationship with Luke progresses, though slowly and a bit unrealistically. Still, I like Luke and I think they make a great couple. The books wouldn't be the same without them together. Suze appears a lot more in this novel than the last, which is great! She's so cute. Though I hope Danny will make another appearance. I loved his sense of humour. I'm looking forward to continuing the series. The next could be very interesting since the title - Shopaholic and Baby - kind of gives away that she will be having a little one. That's inevitably going to be the foundation of plenty of humorous Becky moments. ...more I don't know if I can say how much I am glad that I am finished with these 4 books! I think I said it in the book reviews for each of the other 3, and I'll say it again: THIS GIRL MAKES ME CRAZY! Sure, there are some entertaining things in these books, and the whole sister thing is like a Lucille Ball show, but her lying and shopping make my stomach hurt. Literally. As I read each of these books, I actually felt concern for the predicaments she was getting into! Several people have said they didn' I don't know if I can say how much I am glad that I am finished with these 4 books! I think I said it in the book reviews for each of the other 3, and I'll say it again: THIS GIRL MAKES ME CRAZY! Sure, there are some entertaining things in these books, and the whole sister thing is like a Lucille Ball show, but her lying and shopping make my stomach hurt. Literally. As I read each of these books, I actually felt concern for the predicaments she was getting into! Several people have said they didn't like/get the whole shopping thing. I think I understand that part, actually. It's more the lying that concerns me. She lies constantly and about everything. Even things that don't need to be lied about! Yes, these books are good for the plane (which is where I think I read this one), and they're nice and lite, but . . . I'm glad I'm done with the series. And I just hope there aren't any more! If she writes more like Can You Keep a Secret?\" , I'd read them in a heartbeat. And if that book gets a sequel, I'd be all over it. But Shopaholic I'm done with! ...more Rebecca Brandon, formerly Bloomwood, was in for a big surprise after her around-the-world honeymoon with Luke. No, not the two truckload of items she had gregariously bought during her shopping spree. She's already married to one of the richest men in London so money wasn't an issue with her anymore. But there's one thing she discovered when she got back and met with her parents. She's got a sister! Well, A half-sister, that is! Just when I thought Becky would mope around and get mad at her fathe Rebecca Brandon, formerly Bloomwood, was in for a big surprise after her around-the-world honeymoon with Luke. No, not the two truckload of items she had gregariously bought during her shopping spree. She's already married to one of the richest men in London so money wasn't an issue with her anymore. But there's one thing she discovered when she got back and met with her parents. She's got a sister! Well, A half-sister, that is! Just when I thought Becky would mope around and get mad at her father, she decided she would befriend her because she thought Jess would love shopping too! Little did she know that she would never be able to drag her to Harrods shopping maven nor at Barney's! I think this book\u2019s much better than the last one I read when Becky got married. This time, we meet Becky\u2019s long lost sister Jess, who happened to be her exact opposite! I'm telling you - Becky and Jess are the bomb! Just think about this - Becky the shopaholic, who couldn't last the day without buying new items for her closet, had finally met her frugal sister Jess, who wouldn't want to buy anything at all, unless she really, really, really needed it. I really thought Becky & Jess were the perfect pair! Hilarious even! ...more Stop the presses! I actually--liked this--as a book! I thought it was funny and sweet. After hating Shopaholic Ties the Knot so much, this was a shock, but it's by far my favorite Shopaholic book, even more so than the first. I'm glad I got this one out of the library at the same time at \"Knot\" or I would have probably stopped after that clunker. Adding a super-frugal character to the mix was a brilliant move on Sophie Kinsella's part. Jess provides much-needed balance to Becky, and I like that Stop the presses! I actually--liked this--as a book! I thought it was funny and sweet. After hating Shopaholic Ties the Knot so much, this was a shock, but it's by far my favorite Shopaholic book, even more so than the first. I'm glad I got this one out of the library at the same time at \"Knot\" or I would have probably stopped after that clunker. Adding a super-frugal character to the mix was a brilliant move on Sophie Kinsella's part. Jess provides much-needed balance to Becky, and I like that she's not just a voice of reason, but comically obsessive in the opposite direction. I laughed in recognition and affection at her frugal jerk ways. Interestingly, the structure of this book is classic romance, complete with initial dislike, separation and reunion, and even hurt/comfort. By centering it on a long-lost-sister relationship, Kinsella manages to provide the satisfaction of a romance without busting up Becky's marriage. Jess is even a romantic hero archetype--gruff, didactic, not particularly tactful, but responsible to a fault. She's basically Mr. Knightley. ...more Another book in the shopaholic series. Vol. 4. From the get-go I thought the idea of the book was a bit out there. After three okay books this fourth one stinks! Becky and Luke returns home from their honeymoon and immediately, Becky starts trouble - she has once again overspend and the appartment is stuffed with all kinds of things she's picked up during their ten months of travelling. On top of it all, she finds out she has a half sister who's completely different from her, for one thing the s Another book in the shopaholic series. Vol. 4. From the get-go I thought the idea of the book was a bit out there. After three okay books this fourth one stinks! Becky and Luke returns home from their honeymoon and immediately, Becky starts trouble - she has once again overspend and the appartment is stuffed with all kinds of things she's picked up during their ten months of travelling. On top of it all, she finds out she has a half sister who's completely different from her, for one thing the sister hates shopping. The idea of the book doesn't work for me, and through the entire book I kept thinking how Becky could keep on being so stupid and not learn at all. I didn't think it was funny and only in very short passages was it even briefly amusing and the only reason I finished it, was because I want to read the fifth one where she gets a baby. So this does definitely not come recommended by me... ...more So far I hate this book. This is the most selfish, most shallow character I have ever read about. This Becky Whatever is why the world is an awful place - because she is self absorbed and doesn't care about anyone else but herself. I will finish this book in the hopes that it has any redeeming message. But it is not worth the paper wasted on it. It is telling that this character exists in the the era of lots of credit card abuse and these types of people are the reason why the world is in a near So far I hate this book. This is the most selfish, most shallow character I have ever read about. This Becky Whatever is why the world is an awful place - because she is self absorbed and doesn't care about anyone else but herself. I will finish this book in the hopes that it has any redeeming message. But it is not worth the paper wasted on it. It is telling that this character exists in the the era of lots of credit card abuse and these types of people are the reason why the world is in a near economic depression today. Update: 10/6/09 This book is a piece of crap. I could not finish it; it is so awful. I threw it away. I don't even plan to take it to the resale book store. No one should read this book. ...more The shopaholic titles are silly, romantic, celebrate friendship, miscommunication, and communication, uh, did I say silly? Lots of silly. There could be a cautionary tale in the pages, with Bloomswood optimism, per shopping addiction, but the books are ultimately about being ones self. Am I being too optimistic? Okay, I'm addicted, not to shopping, but to this series! Look. Sometimes I read shitty chick lit. That doesn't make me a bad person. This book annoyed me 91% of the time. But it wasn't as bad as other chick lit I've read. Sure, I wanted to slap the main character, but... yeah, actually that was about it. I think the problem is I hate chick lit but read it anyway. WHAT IS WRONG WITH ME. Please send help. Well, Becky gets even crazier than the previous book in the series, providing some good laughts through it :D Sophie Kinsella remains one of my feeling-good authors! Fin qui Sophie Kinsella si \u00e8 dimostrata pi\u00f9 che all'altezza delle mie aspettative. Continua cos\u00ec, ti prego, non mi deludere! I don't really remember what happened in this book. It's just one of those forgetable books. Nothing special. It was a quick read but it wasn't as good as I thought it would be.", "Title": "Shopaholic and Sister"},
