{"Comments": "I\u2019ll never be free of her. I wear her face; as I get older it\u2019ll stay her changing mirror, the one glimpse of all the ages she never had. I lived her life, for a few strange bright weeks; her blood went into making me what I am, the same way it went to make the bluebells and the hawthorn tree Some books hurt. They squeeze your chest, they make your eyes sting with unshed tears. It's a rare author who is able to evoke that kind of emotion in their readers, and I can only say that reading Tana Fr I\u2019ll never be free of her. I wear her face; as I get older it\u2019ll stay her changing mirror, the one glimpse of all the ages she never had. I lived her life, for a few strange bright weeks; her blood went into making me what I am, the same way it went to make the bluebells and the hawthorn tree Some books hurt. They squeeze your chest, they make your eyes sting with unshed tears. It's a rare author who is able to evoke that kind of emotion in their readers, and I can only say that reading <---A>Tana French</---A> always brings a stab of exquisite pain to my heart.<---F> It's ridiculous, really</---F>. It's so incredible. She is one of my favorite authors,<---M> and for me</---M>, there's just no words for how stupidly wonderful I find her books, because I have not the talent with words that she has. I can't adequately sum up my emotions for her books except to say, from the bottom of my heart, that I love them, utterly. I have the shortest attention span with books. I read them once. I enjoy them, or not. I forget about them. Re-reading anything is a rare, rare, rarer than once-in-a-blue-moon event with me, and yet I've found myself going back to her books time and time again. Exquisite . I can't describe it as anything less than that. Like Rob Ryan in the previous book in this series, our main character, Cassie Maddox is broken. Broken, damaged characters within literature are a dime a dozen. It is up to the skill of the author to make them truly believable, and I fell in love with Cassie as I did with Rob. She feels like a sister, someone I want to hold and protect against the harshness of the world. Like Rob, Cassie has a darkness inside her that made her former position with the Undercover squad so exhilarating. Some people are undercovers all the way to the bone; the job has taken them whole. I was never afraid of getting killed and I was never afraid of losing my nerve. My kind of courage holds up best under fire; it\u2019s different dangers, more refined and insidious ones, that shake me. But the other things: I worried about those. Frank told me once\u2014and I don\u2019t know whether he\u2019s right or not, and I didn\u2019t tell Sam this either\u2014that all the best undercovers have a dark thread woven into them, somewhere. This book is about Cassie. Yes, we get a few brief mentions of Rob, but he is not the focus. This is a good thing, because it shows that Cassie is strong, she is able to move on, and this, after all, is her story. They say that everyone has a double, somewhere; Cassie may have found hers, only that twin is dead. Her former boss, Frank, with his rather sadistic and unconventional streak, wants Cassie to go undercover as the dead girl. Infiltrate an impenetrable group of friends - and the thrill, the need for an answer is too much temptation for our girl. She goes into it with trepidation, excitement. And beyond all expectations, Cassie finds so much more than a mystery to be solved. It was as if none of the jagged edges had ever existed; it was close and warm and shining as that first week again, only better, a hundred times better, because this time I wasn\u2019t on the alert and fighting to get my bearings and stay in place. This time I knew them all by heart, their rhythms, their quirks, their inflections, I knew how to fit in with every one; this time I belonged. This is a story about love. About the love of friendship and family, arguably more important than romantic love itself. Anyone who has never felt like they belonged will know this feeling, that there's nothing like the feeling of finding your place among others, and that's what Cassie finds here. I know I am doing a shit job of describing the book. There is just so much depth to it that I am out of my depths trying to describe it. Just please, please, read this and judge for yourself. ...more There are times when trying on someone else's life for size seems like a very tempting idea. But how do you not lose yourself in it? This book shredded my heart into tiny little pieces. It made me reexperience that hollow, empty, lonely, lost feeling you have when you remember the intense and seemingly 'forever' friendships that have somehow, inexplicably just disintegrated. It made me miss people who once were crucial in my life - and are not there any more, for one reason or another. And I miss There are times when trying on someone else's life for size seems like a very tempting idea. But how do you not lose yourself in it? This book shredded my heart into tiny little pieces. It made me reexperience that hollow, empty, lonely, lost feeling you have when you remember the intense and seemingly 'forever' friendships that have somehow, inexplicably just disintegrated. It made me miss people who once were crucial in my life - and are not there any more, for one reason or another. And I miss them. Here is one of my favorite quotes by Stephen King, another author who is excellent at depicting real friendship: \" Maybe there aren't any such things as good friends or bad friends - maybe there are just friends, people who stand by you when you're hurt and who help you feel not so lonely. Maybe they're always worth being scared for, and hoping for, and living for. Maybe worth dying for too, if that's what has to be. No good friends. No bad friends. Only people you want, need to be with; people who build their houses in your heart. \" <+++>The Likeness</+++> is the second book in the series by Tana French, focusing on Cassie Maddox, the partner of Detective Rob Ryan from her first book, In The Woods . It's a rather standalone work, however, despite being a part of a series. The only reason you should even read In The Woods before this one is to appreciate the intense friendship that Cassie once shared with Rob, and her emotional scars and utter emptiness in the aftermath of the death of their friendship. \" I used to think I sewed us together at the edges with my own hands, pulled the stitches tight and I could unpick them any time I wanted. Now I think it always ran deeper than that and farther, underground; out of sight and way beyond my control. \" This book is not about Rob; he is only here in Cassie's memories. It is about Cassie Maddox , the kickass Detective who in an attempt to pull herself together is on the verge of her own downward spiral, who in the attempt of recapturing of what she once had and creating something that she never had almost loses herself and everything that matters to her. Yes, just like In The Woods , <+++>The Likeness</+++> is less of a crime whodunit ( honestly, there's no reason why you would not figure out the killer's identity halfway through the book ) and much more of a psychological f*ckery story, the attempt to explore people's inner desires and inner darkness - and the consequences of that. \" I wanted to tell her that being loved is a talent too, that it takes as much guts and as much work as loving; that some people, for whatever reason, never learn the knack. \" If you have a problem with an unbelievable premise, this book will frustrate you to no end. Luckily for me, I can easily accept the unbelievable setup ( after all, one of my favorite writers is China Mi\u00e9ville - 'nuff said ). Cassie Maddox needs to go Undercover - to impersonate a dead woman who, by a strange coincidence, happens to be Cassie's almost perfect mirror image, the titular Likeness. And she needs to do that in front of dead woman's friends - her surrogate family. Not to mention that the dead woman in question has herself been impersonating Cassie's long-forgotten undercover identity from the past. Still with me? Still willing to see what happens next? Then this book should be just fine for you. Unbelievable premise or not, once Cassie gets into the middle of action... Actually, scratch that. The whole point is Cassie getting away from the action and smack into the middle of an unusually intense family-like friendship that seems so old-fashioned and tranquil and based on the defiance of the rules of this fast-paced commercialized world. \" Our entire society is based on discontent. People wanting more and more and more. Being constantly dissatisfied with their homes, their bodies, their d\u00e9cor, their clothes, everything \u2013 taking it for granted that that\u2019s the whole point of life. Never to be satisfied. If you are perfectly happy with what you got, especially if what you got isn\u2019t even all the spectacular then you\u2019re dangerous. You\u2019re breaking all the rules. You\u2019re undermining the sacred economy. You\u2019re challenging every assumption that society is built on. \" Daniel, Abby, Justin and Rafe. And Lexie/Cassie - still broken over Rob. This environment becomes seductive. It is beautiful - and yet with every page, right after seducing you into loving this quintet and giving them your heart, Tana French builds up a feeling of the inevitable doom of all of this, of the darkness lurking right under the surface, of the fleeting nature of everything that Cassie comes to hold dear in this new life. And this hurts - hurts a lot since French is so excellent at making you really CARE about her characters. \" Regardless of the advertising campaigns may tell us, we can't have it all. Sacrifice is not an option, or an anachronism; it's a fact of life. We all cut off our own limbs to burn on some altar. The crucial thing is to choose an altar that's worth it and a limb you can accept losing. To go consenting to the sacrifice. \" Cassie Maddox is a lovely character. Hurt and broken, ready to latch onto something that has a promise of life and hope for her - and yet fiercely strong, independent and very capable. This is a woman who is shown to value true friendship and know love that is not exclusively romantic (unlike so many female protagonists in modern literature). She is a person who I'd be honored to be friends with, who I'd love to spend my evenings with, sipping wine and swapping stories ( I'd skip on chain-smoking, however - just reading about the never-ending unfiltered cigarettes smoking makes me want to cough and get a chest x-ray to look for lung cancer ). \" This much is mine, though: everything I did[...] Someone else may have dealt the hand, but I picked it up off the table, I played every card, and I had my reasons.\" \"I would've decided exactly the same way if you'd been standing right here,\" I said. \"I'm a big girl, Sam. I don't need protecting. \" This is how I kept imagining the house they all lived in - the cross between these two. And Ireland - I love French's portrayal of Ireland, allowing me to feel like I actually know something about this country, allowing me to feel a bit of its spirit and heart, both good and bad aspects of it. The little mentions of Irish women having to take the ship to England if they wanted an abortion for instance - I actually had no idea, and this threw in a little reality check on my newly developed love for Irish landscapes. Or the frequent allusions to the consequences of the economic boom - the unaffordable housing, the dead-end jobs, the worship of money - all thrown in the middle of the story, firmly grounding it in the 'real world' - the concept that some of the characters of this story do have an issue with. This portrayal of Ireland, the setting of the scene for the story is so nicely achieved, creating an immersing atmosphere, and I applaud French for job well-done. Tana French paints a vivid and beautiful scenery in this book. She creates moods that are almost palpable, dripping with life. She may be a bit wordy at times - but somehow that does not seem excessive. And her characterization is just superb, in my humbled opinion. \" I wanted to tell her that being loved is a talent too, that it takes as much guts and as much work as loving; that some people, for whatever reason, never learn the knack. \" I loved this book even though it has stolen quite a few hours of sleep from me. I loved everything about it, even the sadness it made me feel at the end. I will miss it, and it will stay with me for quite a long time. 5 stars. --------------- And here is my review for the first book in the series, In the Woods . The third book in the series, Faithful Place , is reviewed here . And you can find the review for Broken Harbour , the fourth book in the series, right here . My review of the fifth book, The Secret Place , is here . ...more okay, i enjoyed this tana french book much more than the first one. and against all odds; the premise of this book is so staggeringly unbelievable.check it out: so there's a murrrrrder, and the body is that of a young woman who looks just like detective cassie maddox! awesome! so why doesn't she just pretend to be the murdered girl, slip unnoticed into her life, and take it from there? because, dummy, her \"life\" is made up solely of a group of four other insular postgrad nerds who reside in a hu okay, i enjoyed this tana french book much more than the first one. and against all odds; the premise of this book is so staggeringly unbelievable.check it out: so there's a murrrrrder, and the body is that of a young woman who looks just like detective cassie maddox! awesome! so why doesn't she just pretend to be the murdered girl, slip unnoticed into her life, and take it from there? because, dummy, her \"life\" is made up solely of a group of four other insular postgrad nerds who reside in a huge crumbling house together, and live only for each other without any boundary issues, and with the fiercely intense loyalty that's mostly only seen in the conjoined, and wouldn't they notice the difference? but she's a really good undercover police detective, so... i don't care, it works, it's fun. and it comes closer to secret history than most others claiming to be the same, but has the humility not to broadcast it on the jacket. rewriting secret history has become a goal for suspense writers everywhere, and anytime anyone writes a book featuring intelligent young people who share secrets and there is a murder, the great donna tartt is invoked. and i remember really liking secret history , so i always read the impostors. this one, for all its necessary suspensions of disbelief, is not a bad comparison. in fact, this reminded me of the house at midnight , just in the characters' dynamics,and the house, of course, and that was one of the better \"tartty\" books i have read. there are huge logic gaps and \"come on!\" moments, but it is a quick read and she writes claustrophobic tension very well. i had some time to kill before work yesterday and was cold and poor, so i just took the 7 train alll the way out and then alll the way back to read this - it's completely engrossing, as long as you suppress your protests. hiding out just one of the guys desperately seeking susan tootsie soul man weekend at bernie's in the 80's these secret-identity movies were ubiquitous. they all involved the seemingly implausible plot of being able to fool others into believing you were a different age, gender, race, or that you were, you know, alive . and if we could believe it in the 80's we can believe it now. because let's face it, dustin hoffman wasn't fooling anyone. i always thought that tana french would be more psychologically complicated literary fiction than a genre-book. blame it on the trade paperback format or the awards or the refined cover art; as opposed to the more cartoony norm: (do not click to look inside) [image error] [image error] (almost forgot about this one - it may be my favorite. i wish it was bigger (like all girls) because mrs. jeffries hiding is pretty funny/creepy) but it's a mystery novel, pure and simple; suspects \"confess\" in long speeches, every glance can be analyzed and stripped of its meaning, detectives pull out all the interrogation clich\u00e9s and there's nothing wrong with that, because it is good old fashioned leisure reading. and that's the genius of its presentation, and what i have learned from the identity-movies of the 80's. if this book ever witnessed a crime, it could just be put into witness protection program with the other trade paperbacks in the general fiction/literature section, and be more or less undetectable. unless i was on the case... ...more This is the second Tana French novel I've read in just over a week and I have to say I'm rapidly becoming a big fan. The Likeness is an excellent story that is about psychology at least as much as (if not more than) it is about a murder mystery. Like In The Woods , the book's greatest weakness is also perhaps its greatest strength: the comprehensive portrait of the characters and their personalities. French makes certain you know your narrator almost as well as you know yourself. Their habits, fea This is the second Tana French novel I've read in just over a week and I have to say I'm rapidly becoming a big fan. The Likeness is an excellent story that is about psychology at least as much as (if not more than) it is about a murder mystery. Like In The Woods , the book's greatest weakness is also perhaps its greatest strength: the comprehensive portrait of the characters and their personalities. French makes certain you know your narrator almost as well as you know yourself. Their habits, fears, background, influences and desires are gradually laid out before you as the story progresses. And despite some of the far-fetched plot elements, Cassie Maddox and her life seemed very real to me. But it's not just the main character who gets such treatment - French builds up a detailed personality for everyone she introduces to make them seem like not just an accessory to the plot, but a person with thoughts, feelings and a past. It's a technique carried out by a number of authors to varying degrees of success but French's novels are my personal favourite so far. It only becomes a weakness when the plot stalls so we can explore the characters and I'm longing to know where the mystery will go next. The actual idea proposed by French here is rather ludicrous. A girl looking exactly like <---C>Detective Cassie Maddox</---C> turns up dead. And not only that, but the girl has assumed the fake identity which Cassie had played the part of a few years previously. Coincidences like this surely do not actually happen. Cassie then goes undercover as the girl - Lexie Madison - into the home she shares with four other students and attempts to find clues that will lead the police towards her killer. Somehow, however, it doesn't seem to matter that the idea is totally unbelievable, Cassie in herself is convincing enough to carry this story. We are soon dragged into a The Secret History -type set-up where we are introduced to an isolated circle of intelligent and weird students. In my opinion, though, I found these characters and the story a lot more entertaining and realistic than those in The Secret History . Perhaps because their obsessions were with living simply and each other rather than a subject. It becomes clear straight away that something is not quite right in the house and that there are a number of secrets being kept. But does this mean one of them is the killer? Again French shows the mental impact of an investigation on her characters. Cassie finds herself becoming increasingly involved on a very personal level and discovers just how hard it is to become someone without feeling a certain attachment to their life and friends. In the end, even Cassie's loyalties to the police force are tested - what if she could have what she's always wanted by being Lexie Madison? A family, people who love her, a sense of security... would she want to give that up and go back to the stresses of her job? One last note: Sam. Look, you're adorable and everything and I really don't want to see you get hurt... but I'm holding out for Cassie and Rob. That's all I have to say to you. Please, Ms French? ...more After the evens of In the Woods , Cassie Maddox is struggling to get her life back together. When a woman resembling her is found with an ID bearing the same name Cassie used in an undercover case years before, Cassie is thrust into a life that isn't her own in an effort to find out who killed the woman with her face... The Likeness was a tough nut to crack. The setup is fairly preposterous and was a big hurdle to overcome before I could dig into the book and enjoy Tana French's superb stylings. A After the evens of In the Woods , Cassie Maddox is struggling to get her life back together. When a woman resembling her is found with an ID bearing the same name Cassie used in an undercover case years before, Cassie is thrust into a life that isn't her own in an effort to find out who killed the woman with her face... The Likeness was a tough nut to crack. The setup is fairly preposterous and was a big hurdle to overcome before I could dig into the book and enjoy Tana French's superb stylings. A woman pretending to be another woman that looks just like her in an effort to find out who killed her? Is this an episode of The Bloodhound Gang I missed? Once I got over my initial misgivings with the setup, I enjoyed The Likeness immensely. I still loved Cassie from Operation Vestal so I was already invested in the story. Tana French is no slouch, either. Just as in In the Woods, she crafted a great cast of characters. As Cassie's identity eroded and merged with Lexie's, I have to admit that I didn't blame Cassie for getting attached to Lexie's friends and their relationship. There were some tense moments on the road, like every time Cassie/Lexie slipped up. I had no idea what actually happened to Lexie until it was spelled out for me, nor did I guess the identity of the father of her baby. Cassie's relationships with Sam and Frank were also one of the more interesting parts of the book. French could have easily glossed over some of those details but I'm glad she didn't. French creates some of the richest characters in crime fiction. I still wish things would have went differently with her and Rob in In the Woods, though. Four out of five stars but French had to work harder for that fourth star than she did in In the Woods. Luckily I've got the next Dublin Murder Squad book on deck. ...more Yep, Tana French has succeeded in doing it yet again - writing a fantastic book which kept me on the edge of my seat from the very first to the very last page. After finishing a book, I usually juxtapose four important elements before deciding on a specific rating: The characterization, the plot, the writing and the atmosphere. Almost never do I feel like all four of those elements have been realized to perfection by the author (as much as I hate to consider something as 'perfect'), but The Liken Yep, Tana French has succeeded in doing it yet again - writing a fantastic book which kept me on the edge of my seat from the very first to the very last page. After finishing a book, I usually juxtapose four important elements before deciding on a specific rating: The characterization, the plot, the writing and the atmosphere. Almost never do I feel like all four of those elements have been realized to perfection by the author (as much as I hate to consider something as 'perfect'), but The Likeness is one of those books. I have nothing to criticize here at all. If you know my reviews, you know that this happens almost never, so consider this review to be a huge recommendation for Tana French's amazing mystery series. \u2192 The Plot Set after In the Woods , the first book in the Dublin Murder Squad series, this book focuses on detective Cassie Maddox, who was the best friend of Rob Ryan, the narrator of the first book. Told through her first-person point of view, The Likeness opens with the corpse of a woman called Lexie Madison being found who looks exactly like Cassie. Cassie's own past is soon going to be involved as Lexie Madison was an alias Cassie has used in an undercover investigation some years ago. In order to discover who has brutally murdered Lexie Madison, Cassie slips into the role of her doppelganger and takes over her life to find out as much as possible about the four mysterious friends Lexie lived with. At that moment, Cassie knows that she has entered a dangerous game, but she wouldn't think that this game turns out to change her life forever. As unlikely and randomly as this book's premise sounds, it immediately caught my interest and had me engaged until I turned to the last page. Twists and turns appeared around every corner, yet the book remained calm and never rushed, allowed me to sympathize with each and every one of the characters involved. The plot is so complex that it is impossible to read this book en passant - and quite a few readers seemed to criticize the premise, not without reason. How likely is it to find a doppelganger you have never met before and to be able to take over his life without anyone noticing? It is not like this happens all the time. But then, fantasy novels are just as unbelievable because they also play with the reader's imagination. For me, authenticity doesn't emerge out of the likelihood of certain scenarios, but out of the author's ability to make me believe what happened, to make me feel like this could have happened in reality. And Tana French did make me believe. \u2192 The Characters We have eight main characters in this book, every one of them interesting and complex in their own right. Cassie Maddox' boyfriend Sam O'Neill who struggles with accepting Cassie's undercover role; her wayward and demanding, yet clever superior Frank Mackey; the killed Lexie who has been fully fleshed out as a character in the course of the novel (something I admire the author for); and Lexie's four friends - Abby, Rafe, Justin and Daniel -, maybe the most important addition to the cast of characters in this novel. Living in an old house full of tradition, those four friends were connected by their pasts and their social strugglings, each of them accompanied by their own secrets. As mysterious as they appear to be in the beginning, Tana French presses every button to develop believable, interesting characters out of all of them, so much that at one point I didn't want this book to end anymore. \u2192 The Writing Tana French is an amazing writer, I never doubted that after In the Woods , but with this book, she totally convinced me that her thrillers are no ordinary thrillers. They could, in my opinion, be classified as great literature, considering her talents to approach her characters and introduce and develop them with so much depth. Perhaps the most significant topic this novel deals with is the struggles Cassie endures while slipping into Lexie's life. Where does the Cassie's character end, and where does Lexie's character begin? A question Cassie has to face when she realizes how interesting Lexie's life was in comparison to her own, how easy it is to be Lexie, how endearing her friendships to Abby, Rafe, Justin and Daniel are. But that is not everything this novel is composed of. Prominently referred to is the Irish history, a past which surely could not turn into a motivation for brutality and violence - or could it? Tana French does not back away from exploring themes like loneliness, isolation, obsession, identity struggles and suppression. And all of those themes are interconnected in such an entertaining way that I was fascinated by it with every new page. \u2192 The Atmosphere Set in a little village in Ireland, the book introduces us to a rather dark atmosphere, with the mysterious house gaining center stage soon. Tana French seems to like letting her characters wander off into the forest in the darkness of night, even more frequently here than in In the Woods . This book is not as spine-tingling as the first novel in the series, partly because it is rather slow-paced without ever becoming boring, but you can still expect some unsettling and disturbing moments which will leave you questioning the extent of humanity. The book itself is quite long (466 pages according to Goodreads, but my Hardcover edition was 778 pages long). It is true that some parts of it could have been shortened. But sometimes my reading soul is overpowered by guilty pleasure, and that's exactly why I didn't mind the length and didn't even want this novel to end. Faithful Place , make an effort. My expectations are high. In the end, I'd like to mention that this book spoils some of the events of In the Woods . While The Likeness could be read on its own, I recommend beginning with the first book to be able to capture the interesting character development and a lot of references made in this novel. A book about transformation, about human failure, about victims turning to perpetrators and culprits becoming victims. As disturbing as parts of it were ... I loved every single moment of it. ...more Update: I've no idea why I never wrote a review of Tana's 2nd book. Other than I didn't write reviews much - if at all - my first couple of years on Goodreads. -- [maybe I should take a lesson]-ha! Save some times! lol..., But.... I loved Tana's first two books ...I liked them all (one I wasn't crazy about), The first TWO books are still favorites -- even though I was and still am a little mad at her for not bringing back my favorite character .... But I LOVE TANA FRENCH. If nothing else ...the dial Update: I've no idea why I never wrote a review of Tana's 2nd book. Other than I didn't write reviews much - if at all - my first couple of years on Goodreads. -- [maybe I should take a lesson]-ha! Save some times! lol..., But.... I loved Tana's first two books ...I liked them all (one I wasn't crazy about), The first TWO books are still favorites -- even though I was and still am a little mad at her for not bringing back my favorite character .... But I LOVE TANA FRENCH. If nothing else ...the dialogue it's ALWAYS OUTSTANDING. I'm reading \"The Trespasser\" right now....AM LOVING THIS NEW 2016 release --. Its great to see Antoinnette Conway and her partner Steve Moran. Tana French is 'on' her game with her new book -- it's exciting and fresh!!! As for THE LIKENESS... EVERYTHING about it is GREAT!!! If you have not read TANA FRENCH.... you're missing out reading *terrific* prose....fabulous dialogue... and engrossing intelligent Murder Squad stories!!! I suggest the first TWO BOOKS first! But... even her new book 'The Trespasser' could be a stand alone book. ...more If Operation Mirror was a real thing, you would have to look out for the broken pieces on the floor. Because I would have smashed it. Sigh. Have you ever felt like you weren't reading the same book as your - trusted, I might add - friends, that you don't get it? Because right now I do. Holy fuck I do. And yet, I was so ready to love everything about The Likeness : In the Woods crushed me in the best way possible, the premise of this sequel, while rather ludicrous (shoot me, I don't believe for on If Operation Mirror was a real thing, you would have to look out for the broken pieces on the floor. Because I would have smashed it. Sigh. Have you ever felt like you weren't reading the same book as your - trusted, I might add - friends, that you don't get it? Because right now I do. Holy fuck I do. And yet, I was so ready to love everything about The Likeness : In the Woods crushed me in the best way possible, the premise of this sequel, while rather ludicrous (shoot me, I don't believe for one second that someone could look so perfectly like me that she could fool my closed friends - call me arrogant, but Pl- ease ), still awoke my interest and pretty much fascinated me... I thought I would love the shit out of this book. I thought I would dive in the third story instantly after finishing it. Ha. Not right now I won't. If you hear a crushing sound, it is more likely to be my expectations painfully dying than any sob coming from me. Why would I, when I felt nothing ? First of all, I still very much enjoyed Tana French 's writing, most of the time at least. Sure, some of her descriptions made me itch to skim sometimes, but overall it was consistent with In the Woods : evocative and beautiful. Moreover, as I said earlier, no matter how ridiculous and unbelievable the premise could be, I overlooked my problems with it and enjoyed it for what it was : a fascinating incursion into someone else's life. Tana French hooked me on this one, this I can't dismiss. ... And unfortunately, that's pretty much it. The Likeness tried hard to be something it just wasn't . A psychological thriller. A character-driven journey. A dark diving into humans tricky mind. Key word being : It tried . For me, it failed. The problem is, if the premise was interesting, in my opinion the story wasn't near as developed as it could have been and my expectations were destroyed pretty fast. It was just so boring, okay? I'm not one for blaming a book for being character-driven, and many of my all-time favorites aren't action-packed. But for this kind of books to work, I need to feel something for the characters, to crack their layers and connect to them. I didn't. Not for even a second, and if any, this is the reason why I disliked The Likeness and am so mad. Where the fuck is the great characterization? No, really. Tell me. So the Fantastic Four are weird? So their reactions are a little - or a lot, depending on the moment - odd? So they're hiding something? SO WHAT? When, and I mean it, do they become something else than what Cassie is telling us? WHEN? After more than 400 pages, I still can't picture one of them, I still can't say one interesting thing about them as characters, I still can't point to one hidden layer in their personalities. They're transparent , and very much one-dimensional to me. In the end, if there's something I will never forgive them, it's this : they never surprised me . Never. Past the first chapters, they never showed me something I didn't already know - or guess - about them, but played their parts as the good little soldiers they were. Granted, I didn't mind any of them, including Cassie. But that's the thing, isn't it? Cassie changed through the story, alright, but I still can't get a sense of who she really is. I didn't mind the characters, I didn't hate nor love them, I didn't care, they're not real to me and never have been. I don't know them. Don't even get me started about Sam. Who the fuck is this guy? For someone who's supposed to have such a big involvement in the MC's life, the only thing I can say about him is that he's a nice guy. Cheers. Finally, if I didn't abhor the ending, I can't say that I was satisfied either. Whilst I wasn't frustrated with In the Woods 's conclusion, and thought that the somewhat openness suited the story, everything in The Likeness 's ending feels lazy to me. Lazy, convenient, rushed, and worst than all that, it crushed any pretense I had of caring about these characters . It crushed the tiny hope I still held that the ending would somehow made it worth it. It didn't. I'm not over Rob, though. Actually, I contemplated the fact that my dislike of this book could come from a wicked sense of loyalty towards him. I think that it's more complicated than that, but it wouldn't be fair to dismiss this possibility, even if it's only part of the problem. Caring for Rob didn't annihilate my ability to appreciate other characters, and it would be ridiculous of me to think so. Yet his disappearance into thin air contributed to my frustration - I'm lucid enough to acknowledge it, even if it sounds unfair, given that it wasn't his story. I KNOW THAT. Tell this to my broken heart. Stubborn little shit. Now, what do I know? Most of my friends praised this book, so don't mind me too much. I'm gonna go sulking alone in my corner. PS. I'm still completely devastated over Rob and I cannot let it go - my heart ache when I think of the way he's hanging somewhere, so please tell me, should I lose all hope for him? PS2. (view spoiler) [I just realised that the call scene of book 1 must have taken place AFTER the end of book 2 (because Sam and Cassie are engaged). No I'm not crying. No. (hide spoiler) ] For more of my reviews, please visit: [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more First of all, and I just must say it, this is about as unlikely a premise as can be explained outside the realm of speculative fiction. This is after all a contemporary (published in 2008) murder mystery set in a real live place on the planet Earth. That said, and in the spirit of Ray Bradbury - \u201clet\u2019s get in the rocket ship and go to Mars.\u201d OK, now that that is out of the way, this is an AWESOME second book in Tana French\u2019s Dublin Murder Squad series. Not \u2013 not \u2013 not a sequel. No. French makes m First of all, and I just must say it, this is about as unlikely a premise as can be explained outside the realm of speculative fiction. This is after all a contemporary (published in 2008) murder mystery set in a real live place on the planet Earth. That said, and in the spirit of Ray Bradbury - \u201clet\u2019s get in the rocket ship and go to Mars.\u201d OK, now that that is out of the way, this is an AWESOME second book in Tana French\u2019s Dublin Murder Squad series. Not \u2013 not \u2013 not a sequel. No. French makes mention of 2007\u2019s In the Woods and there are some of the same characters, and same Irish setting, and same police force. Other than that, this is something altogether new. This features a co-protagonist from In the Woods: badass spunky Celtic detective Cassie Maddox. She has taken some time off after the events from French\u2019s first book, switched from the murder squad to domestic violence and is dating Sam. Rob Ryan has moved on \u2013 he may as well be chasing the man in black across the wasteland \u2013 he\u2019s mentioned sparingly. But prior to being in murder, she was an undercover cop, and she and Detective Frank Mackey created an undercover alias for Cassie \u2013 Lexie Madison. Made her up. She wasn\u2019t real, just a fake name and ID so that Cassie could work undercover. So. Imagine everyone\u2019s surprise when Lexie Madison \u2013 who bears a striking LIKENESS to Cassie winds up stabbed in an abandoned famine house in County Wicklow, south of Dublin. And so begins Tana French\u2019s brilliant The Likeness. A murder mystery in the same way that Dostoevsky\u2019s Crime and Punishment is a crime fiction \u2013 it is that and so much more. And just like Porfiry and Raskolnikov's inevitable confrontation is hypnotic and magnetic, so too is Cassie\u2019s frenetic, improbable but terrifyingly seductive infiltration of a tight group of friends. By the end French has us, hook, line, and sinker; we are enmeshed in her taut web of psychological intrigue and group dynamic thriller. As In the Woods, French here has created a microcosm of Irish and western civilization history wound up in a tight ball of sociological have-at-you that creeps in on the reader and leaves us tied up in a muddle of empathy and shared understanding. French evokes a sense of friendship and loyalty that can be easily understood, yet is intoxicating in its abstraction. The five friends described \u2013 Daniel, Abby, Justin and Rafe. and Lexie \u2013 have created a nirvana of twenty-something belonging. They have constructed a couch pillow fortress meant to stand the test of time. But just as any house of cards is doomed, French has revealed the fatal flaws in this group of friends that is heartbreaking in its inescapability. Also like In the Woods, the author has conjured a sense of Ireland\u2019s past that becomes tangible, and in this context, weirdly becomes an anachronistic suspect. Can the ancient scars of slavery and class distinction manifest into a motive for violence? Can the ghosts of Oppressions Past animate the spirit of malevolent reality? French suggests, plausibly, that old wounds are gothicly slow to heal and still capable of harm. French has also given us a unique dual mystery to solve \u2013 not only must we move towards a finding of the murderer, but here we must also establish who is the victim. Recall that Lexie Madison was not real \u2013 she was a construct of an undercover police department, used briefly to investigate criminal activity. When detective Maddox moved on to the Murder Squad, Lexie was a part in a play discarded and discontinued. Until her very real cold body was found and colleagues of Cassie feverishly located her to discount that the discovered corpse was not her. Here, French has crafted a voyeuristic treasure of unequaled complexity that serves as a thinly designed framing device for the inimitable investigation. Finally, the author has given us a psychological character study of loneliness and Donne-esque severance. Can we escape family and friends and all connections? What does it mean to lose parents, to be separated from our roots? Can we really just pick up and go and start over? These questions are explored in an introspective, thoughtful manner that invites further inquiry into solipsism long after the last page is turned. A very well written, entertaining and thought provoking work. ...more \"We had worked together seamlessly, she and I. I had drawn her to this house, this life, every bit as neatly and surely as she had drawn me.\" Tana French knows how to conjure up the most charmingly creepy characters out of thin air like nobody's business - damaged individuals who go about life like sentient, breathing time bombs about to go off and leave a trail of wreckage consisting of wounded hearts and shattered illusions in the wake of their committed mistakes. Call this tale of blurred id \"We had worked together seamlessly, she and I. I had drawn her to this house, this life, every bit as neatly and surely as she had drawn me.\" Tana French knows how to conjure up the most charmingly creepy characters out of thin air like nobody's business - damaged individuals who go about life like sentient, breathing time bombs about to go off and leave a trail of wreckage consisting of wounded hearts and shattered illusions in the wake of their committed mistakes. Call this tale of blurred identities a flight of her fancy where the basic premise induces one eye-roll after another. Call this The Secret History redux. Call this anything at all. But a beautifully worded commentary on the unpredictability of human behavior will remain as unputdownable under any other name, all criticisms notwithstanding. A murdered girl with a fake identity made up and used by an undercover cop and her superior years ago, and that same undercover cop destined to unravel the mystery of her murder by pretending to be the dead girl brought to life - who are we kidding here? All of this sounds ridiculous on several levels. But hey it's Tana French! When she tells you a story, you deferentially suspend disbelief, snuggle into the comfort of your blanket, and read till you hear the first bird gleefully chirping outside your window signalling the onset of yet another morning. 'The Likeness' is a story about people who breach forbidden boundaries in search of the ultimate freedom, refuse to fit into some generic, pre-determined cog in the wheel of society and develop a hermetically sealed, secretive world of their very own where no outside forces are allowed to operate. And it depicts how this painstakingly achieved state of domestic harmony comes apart at the seams when the personal needs of an individual jeopardize the unity of the close-knit group. Thus in the same vein as its predecessor, 'The Likeness' ingeniously utilizes its characters and events to introspect on the fallout of human foibles. But it is important to note here that it is not much of a standalone mystery. It is essential that readers acquaint themselves with the happenings of the first book in the series to grasp the motivations behind our headstrong, kickass female protagonist's actions and the fragile state of her mind. It has been 6 months since the spectacularly eerie and depressing events of 'In the Woods' and Operation Vestal blew up in the face of Detectives Rob and Cassie, damaging their relationship beyond any hope of salvation, and leaving them with emotional scars that run much deeper than they care to admit to themselves. Cassie has moved from the Murder Squad to Domestic Violence, Rob is stuck in some other unknown branch of the police department, both no longer on speaking terms. In the midst of this irredeemable mess, a baffling murder case surfaces where the victim resembles Cassie down to her last lock of hair and carries an alias Cassie had used years ago on an undercover drug bust and gotten rid of later on. With no leads to follow and the mystery over the girl's true identity steadily deepening, Cassie decides to revisit her undercover roots (much to the chagrin of her gentle and considerate detective boyfriend Sam O'Neill) by masquerading as the victim, who somehow survived the assault, and returning to the secluded Whitethorn House with its assortment of 4 other inhabitants who are all PhD students of Trinity like Lexie, the murdered girl. Cassie aka Lexie's return under extraordinary circumstances triggers a set of curious events which, in turn, reveal alarming aspects of the lives of the 5 students whose closeness not only hints at something inexplicably disturbing but reveals darker sides of their past lives. To be fair, this installment of the Dublin Murder Squad series is slightly underwhelming compared to Ms French's brilliant debut. None of the occurrences narrated are as bone-chilling or spooky and an awareness of the wafer thin nature of the logic presented creeps in once in a while. The very Secret History -ish list of ensemble characters (Daniel is Henry, Justin is Francis, Rafe is a cross between Charles and Bunny while Lexie and Abby have shades of Camilla in themselves) evoke a keen sense of d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu and the ending disappoints since the emotional aftermath of the crime(s) is much less affecting here compared to the climax of 'In the Woods' , which begs the question why I have still rated this 4 stars despite the flaws. A good way to answer this question will be to put my finger on French's accurate reconstruction of that feather light feeling of not being tethered to worldly considerations yet and that firm, transient belief in the fact that we'll always remain young and invincible, forever unyielding to civilization's ruthless demands - the wonderful friendships of student life which slip right through our grasp and melt away into oblivion like treacherous mirages as 'real life' hurls one gauntlet after another our way. And it is this thoughtful portrayal of that unavoidable tragedy, of having to grow up and grow out of the optimism of youth, that all of us eventually experience at some point of time which tugs at the heartstrings the most and transforms 'The Likeness' into more of an homage to the intrigue and vigor of youth from just a preternatural murder mystery. P.S.:- Only Tana French could have rescued me from my reading rut in such style. ...more After being stunned by Tana French's opening novel, I was equally impressed with the second instalment of the Dublin Murder Squad. After being severely emotionally scarred during Operation Vestal, in which a young girl was murdered, Cassie Maddox left the Squad for the more structured world of Domestic Violence. After receiving a frantic call from Squad Detective (and current boyfriend) Sam O'Neill, she agrees to meet him at the scene of his latest case; perhaps her first mistake. Cassie arrives After being stunned by Tana French's opening novel, I was equally impressed with the second instalment of the Dublin Murder Squad. After being severely emotionally scarred during Operation Vestal, in which a young girl was murdered, Cassie Maddox left the Squad for the more structured world of Domestic Violence. After receiving a frantic call from Squad Detective (and current boyfriend) Sam O'Neill, she agrees to meet him at the scene of his latest case; perhaps her first mistake. Cassie arrives to discover a murder victim who bears a striking resemblance to her, with identification listing the victim as Lexie Madison. This startles Maddox and takes her back to days working Undercover, where Maddox used the same name. With no leads, O'Neill hatches a plan alongside Frank Mackey, Maddox's handler from those days working Undercover, wanting to place Maddox back into the life of Lexie Maddox. Their long-shot hope, to lure the killer back out of the shadows, while also allowing Maddox to gather intel from the four roommates with whom Madison shared a house. Maddox re-establishes herself as an undercover plant, testing her skills as attempts to fit into a life she never knew. To smooth over obvious gaps in what Maddox is able to ascertain about this new Lexie Madison, she heads into the house armed solely with a sketchy backstory of amnesia and the recent stabbing. As Mackey and O'Neill push her, a few motives for the attack come to the surface, though Maddox is unable to substantiate any of them. Could the killer be in plain sight, fraternizing with Maddox on a daily basis, or does an ancient grudge held by the townspeople help to fuel a hatred strong enough to kill? Maddox has a limited time to find the truth before being discovered and the killer slips away. Told with as much deliberate pacing as the previous novel, French shows that she was not a one-hit wonder. Perfect for those who seek a less than conventional murder mystery and police procedural. I am still in awe that it took me so long to discover Tana French and her brilliant series. After pulling Adam 'Rob' Ryan into the spotlight throughout the opening novel, French turns to his (former) partner and best friend, using both her backstory and previous work in Undercover to develop this equally gripping story. Peppering the narrative with mentions of Ryan, French keeps him at arm's length and away from making even the briefest of appearances. While some readers might have found the idea of a 'lookalike' entirely dubious for this or any other novel, French has a reason for pushing this idea, discussed below. French uses this 'swap out' to develop the struggles that Cassie Maddox had playing this faux character, as any undercover plant would while trying to hone in on what happened to the victim. The characters presented throughout the novel help to bring life and action to the plot, while also showing the strains of undercover work during the building of a watertight case against a handful of suspects. The latter portion of the explores the idea of imposters, which might explain the aforementioned use of the lookalike situation. French examines both the imposters angle that individuals use to fool others (a la Jekyll and Hyde), where a person takes on a false persona for their own benefit. Alternatively, there is the imposter that one plays against themselves, trying to pretend that they fit into another socio-economic bracket or general caste. Both are damaging and yet useful in one's daily life. I would venture to say there is not a single reader who can completely divorce themselves from these situations in their own lives. French explores this theme extensively throughout the narrative, arguing that they appear on a regular basis, even if we cannot decipher them independently. Perhaps her greatest quality of French's writing is her style of slow narrative momentum to stretch the story out while keeping the reader's attention throughout. A stunning novel that is sure to garner scores of new fans for Tana French and provide much fodder for discussion. Kudos, Madam French for keeping me hooked as I delve deeper into the Dublin Murder Squad. I cannot wait to find out what you have in store with your third novel. Like/hate the review? An ever-growing collection of others appears at: http://pecheyponderings.wordpress.com/ ...more As seen on The Readventurer Impressive. Very impressive. I think now, after reading two of Tana French 's novels, I finally know what a good psychological thriller is. It is something that goes beyond simple figuring out whodunit, something that delves into the minds investigators, victims and killers, something that focuses on exploring the motives and states of mind rather than logistics of the crimes. It is the psychological part of The Likeness that won me over, because, let's face it, the prem As seen on The Readventurer Impressive. Very impressive. I think now, after reading two of Tana French 's novels, I finally know what a good psychological thriller is. It is something that goes beyond simple figuring out whodunit, something that delves into the minds investigators, victims and killers, something that focuses on exploring the motives and states of mind rather than logistics of the crimes. It is the psychological part of The Likeness that won me over, because, let's face it, the premise of this book borders on implausible. Cassie Maddox is recruited to go undercover and impersonate a murder victim, who not only, coincidentally, looks exactly like Cassie, but who also had stolen Cassie's last completely made-up undercover identity of Lexie Maddison! What are the odds of that? Plus, Cassie has to live in a house with 4 friends of the dead girl! Is it possible at all? To learn and assume someone's identity so well that even the closest friends don't see the difference? Luckily, French knows her stuff. I totally bought the story in the end. It is staggering how much work it takes to prepare for undercover, how much psychological effort it takes to stay in character, and how hard it is not to completely succumb and merge into this character. It didn't look that difficult here did it? I loved how the book portrayed the enormous difficulty of Cassie's assignment, I loved uncovering bit by bit the intricacies of Lexie's identity, I loved getting to know Lexie's friends and witnessing their strange bond. What disappointed me in the beginning was that I had expected to read more about Rob Ryan from In the Woods . No luck. The Likeness is Cassie's and only Cassie's story. I got over it pretty quickly though. I am now looking forward to reading the 3rd book in the series - Faithful Place - which, as far as I know, will focus on Frank, Cassie's undercover boss introduced in this novel. I kind of like the idea of a series of books which stays fresh because of the narrator changes. The other complaint is that at times the story seemed too wordy - too much conversing, too much description, I just wanted it move along faster. But then, on the second thought, these elements most likely made Tana French 's books such enchanting, atmospheric, disturbing reads. So maybe this is not a complaint at all... ...more And I thought In the Woods was good...I sucked down this nearly-500 page sequel in two days and then couldn't believe I'd been apprehensive about In the Woods even needing a sequel. Detective Cassie Maddox goes undercover, with a twist - she's taking the place of a murder victim who looks just like her, and who had taken up residence in a cover identity that Cassie had created years before. She has to slip effortlessly into the role and find out if any of the four best friends that \"Lexie Madiso And I thought In the Woods was good...I sucked down this nearly-500 page sequel in two days and then couldn't believe I'd been apprehensive about In the Woods even needing a sequel. Detective Cassie Maddox goes undercover, with a twist - she's taking the place of a murder victim who looks just like her, and who had taken up residence in a cover identity that Cassie had created years before. She has to slip effortlessly into the role and find out if any of the four best friends that \"Lexie Madison\" had shared a house with are suspects. I found the whole story fascinating. I was on edge the whole time wondering if she could pull it off, if she would slip up, if someone inside the house had killed her or if it was someone from the victim's mysterious past. The whole thing requires a certain suspension of disbelief, but Tana French does a great job feeding the reader enough plausible bits to make it all palatable. Although there are a handful of references to In the Woods sprinkled throughout the book, The Likeness is definitely its own self-contained story. Understanding her mental state being a direct result of the events of the first book, however, goes a long way towards explaining why she's so easily sucked into her undercover life. Now I've reached that terrible place where I want to stay in the world that the author has created, but have to wait for her to write another book. I hope I don't have to wait too long. ...more Tana French could probably write a book on organic farming and I'd read it. I'd anticipate a major turf war between the USDA and the IOFGA and actually stay up late to find out whether ladybugs were an effective deterrent against garden pests. Fortunately, French's chosen milieu is much more exciting. With her debut novel In the Woods and this 2008 follow-up, French's finesse with weaving homicide investigation, Irish locale and intense character study together knocked me out. The Likeness is nar Tana French could probably write a book on organic farming and I'd read it. I'd anticipate a major turf war between the USDA and the IOFGA and actually stay up late to find out whether ladybugs were an effective deterrent against garden pests. Fortunately, French's chosen milieu is much more exciting. With her debut novel In the Woods and this 2008 follow-up, French's finesse with weaving homicide investigation, Irish locale and intense character study together knocked me out. The Likeness is narrated by Detective Cassie Maddox, a cop in her late twenties who recounts her recruitment to the UCD by the legendary head of undercover operations, Frank Mackey. Cassie's assignment was to infiltrate a drug ring at University College Dublin. Cassie and Mackey created a cover which she named Alexandra Madison. \"Lexie\" exits the assignment when she is stabbed, not because Cassie blew her cover, but because she did her job all too well, convincing her paranoid target that she was a dirt merchant trying to take over his business. Cassie's attack earned her a promotion to Murder, where ultimately, an investigation known as Operation Vestal (chronicled by Tana French with In The Woods ) went sideways. Cassie transferred to Domestic Violence and is introduced trying to move on with her life. She takes target practice in the underground shooting range to calm her nerves and spends time with her boyfriend, one of her Operation Vestal partners, Sam O'Neill. On an \"almost spring\" morning, Cassie receives an urgent call from her boyfriend summoning her to the village of Glenskehy in the Wicklow Mountains. Arriving at a field left to run wild, Cassie gets a bad feeling about the crime scene. Instead of uniformed officers and the Technical Unit crawling all over the field, Cassie spots only two local officers, Sam and joining them, her old handler Frank Mackey, running an investigation which Cassie knows should belong to her boyfriend. The men lead Cassie to the ruins of a \"famine cottage,\" where a young woman lies dead from a single stab wound. The victim's Trinity College ID reveals her name to be Lexie Madison. Her face is a splitting likeness of Cassie's. Frank Mackey, who was brought in due to the possible death of one of his undercover agents, reveals to Cassie his reasons for keeping the scene quiet. \"Lexie Madison\" was living a half mile away with four Trinity College Dublin students. Mackey has held off notifying the students their roommate has been murdered to grant him the once in a lifetime opportunity of placing an experienced undercover officer in the identity of a murder victim , enabling Mackey to investigate Lexie's death from the inside. I had never seen anyone who looked anything like me before. Dublin is full of scary girls who I swear to God are actually the same person, or at least come out of the same fake-tan bottle; me, I may not be a five-star babe but I am not generic. My mother's father was French, and somehow the French and the Irish combined into something specific and pretty distinctive. I don't have brothers or sisters; what I mainly have is aunts, uncles and cheerful gangs of second cousins, and none of them looked anything like me. Cassie agrees to lay low for three days and to give her boyfriend a chance to solve the murder through conventional means. Sam dislikes Frank Mackey and dead set against his girlfriend returning to undercover work in an investigation he'd be running. He learns that \"Lexie Madison\" arrived at Trinity College two and a half years ago and was finishing her PhD, \"something to do with women writers and pseudonyms.\" Her known associates were her roommates, a tightly knit group of four postgrads: Daniel March (who inherited their residence, Whitethorn House, from his great-uncle), Abby Stone, Justin Mannering and Rafe Hyland. None of the housemates indcate they knew Lexie was using a false identity. None of them indicate they knew that Lexie was pregnant. Ready for a fresh challenge and intrigued by her doppelg\u00e4nger's mysterious rise and fall, Cassie agrees to assume Lexie Madison's life once more. Operation Mirror is a go. For a week, Mackey rehearses Cassie, using video obtained from the victim's smartphone to study Lexie's voice, personality and mannerisms. Cassie memorizes every detail of Whitethorn House and the Glenskehy area. She gets Lexie's clothes. She gets Lexie's haircut. Mackey has notified the housemates that Lexie has been unable to recall the night of her attack and Cassie is able to use that trauma to explain any contradictory behavior that her housemates might detect. \"Hi,\" I said at the bottom of the steps, looking up at them. For a second, I thought they weren't going to answer, they had made me already, and I wondered wildly what the hell I was supposed to do now. Then Daniel took a step forwards, and the picture wavered and broke. A smile started across Justin's face, Rafe straightened up and raised one arm in a wave, and Abby came running down the steps and hugged me hard. Authors making a living off a long-running series sometimes claim that it doesn't matter which of their books you start with. The Likeness is a rare sequel where this is actually the case. You can grab this book, start reading and not feel like you've missed anything. Not only is the narrator different, and the mystery and most of the characters new, but French takes us someplace new. It's what I love in a sequel: It's exactly the same, but completely different. Cassie Maddox has evolved. She's no longer the Vespa riding, cartwheel turning pixie goofing off with her partner but a woman who's seen some shit. Operation Vestal, which was covered by In the Woods , is whispered and alluded to in this book but doesn't require familiarity from the reader; Operation Vestal is simply that person or thing that disrupted your life and keeps you on edge wondering if you had it to do over again what you might've done differently. Rather than focus purely on a homicide investigation, this time French plunges us into the world of an undercover agent. The camera lens was always where I wanted it. I was curious about how someone would be recruited to undercover and what skills she'd have. French goes there. I was interested in the dynamic between the handler and his undercover and how trust could be abused. French goes there. I was excited to discover the various ways an undercover can trip herself up. French goes there. And I anticipated the undercover developing intimate feelings for people she was manipulating. French goes there too. And the writing is intoxicating. God, that first week. Even thinking about it I want to bite into it like the world's brightest red apple. In the middle of an all-out murder investigation, while Sam worked his way painstakingly through various shades of scumbag and Frank tried to explain our situation to the FBI without coming across like a lunatic, there was nothing I was supposed to be doing except living Lexie's life. It gave me a gleeful, lazy, daring feeling, right down to my toes, like mitching off to school when it's the best day of spring and you know your class has to dissect frogs. The only matter I'd bring up before the complaint board is the length of the book. Not the number of pages, but how long the chapters are and some of the scenes run. Daniel, Abby, Justin and Rafe are almost always together so the scenes at Whitethorn House take a while to wind down once these postgrads get to talking, particularly about their own feelings for each other. I did like what French did with the house, drawing on the dreamlike elements of Daphne du Maurier's Rebecca and the naivete of the backpacker utopia in Alex Garland's The Beach . While the novelty of the setting, the mystery and the emotional sucker punch of In the Woods couldn't be repeated, French again uses atmosphere to tantalize (even hinting, artfully, at the possibility of the supernatural once again), introduces colorful jigsaw pieces of suspects and motives, and ties up everything with emotional satisfaction. Great show. ...more I love the way Tana French writes, but for now I haven't loved those of her books that I have read. To be fair, I don't really read much crime fiction so it might be a genre thing. I am still intrigued enough to keep reading her books because something about the world she is creating is appealing to me. The Likeness follows Cassie Maddox, who was my favourite character from the previous book in the series ( In the Woods ), so I was immediately pleased with it. But what follows is the most unrealist I love the way Tana French writes, but for now I haven't loved those of her books that I have read. To be fair, I don't really read much crime fiction so it might be a genre thing. I am still intrigued enough to keep reading her books because something about the world she is creating is appealing to me. The Likeness follows Cassie Maddox, who was my favourite character from the previous book in the series ( In the Woods ), so I was immediately pleased with it. But what follows is the most unrealistic premise imaginable; a girl who looks like Cassie and who took the place of her former undercover assignment, is found dead. So what is the logical step to take? Excactly, let Cassie pretend to be the girl and find the murderer this way. She moves into the house the murdered girl lived in with her four friends and starts to be as attached to it as the others. Other reviewers have said they were able to suspend their disbelieve and enjoy the story from there but I did not manage that. For me the unbelievable premise stuck in my head and I just could not just go with it. I do like my realistic fiction to be just that: realistic. I love the characters Tana French creates; these are the greatest strength of her books. They do not feel like characters but rather like real people. It helps that she lets her protagonist be flawed, although ultimately brilliant. Cassie is at the same time infuriating and lovable and I really hope to at least see her again in one the later books. The atmosphere she creates is also impressive; the house and its environment is as much as a main character as the people inhabiting it. I could just imagine it and the attachment Cassie forms to this house as well as the people living there was believable and heartbreaking. This book took me forever to read; I mean, my copy has around 700 pages but that still does not explain why it took me so long. Once I was reading it, I enjoyed it but I somehow never felt compelled to pick it up again. But I already have the next book and I will definitely pick that up whenever I feel like reading a crime novel. ...more This book. If you have not read it- BUY IT AND READ IT NOW. I've read all 5 (as of Oct 2015) in the series and this one is by far the best! I really enjoyed Cassie's character from In the Woods, so I was excited to follow her in her own journey this time. In short, Cassie agrees to go undercover posing as a girl who looks exactly like her but was murdered. She lived in a house with her roommates; Cassie's mission is to assimilate back into the house and to find out who murdered Lexie (the girl w This book. If you have not read it- BUY IT AND READ IT NOW. I've read all 5 (as of Oct 2015) in the series and this one is by far the best! I really enjoyed Cassie's character from In the Woods, so I was excited to follow her in her own journey this time. In short, Cassie agrees to go undercover posing as a girl who looks exactly like her but was murdered. She lived in a house with her roommates; Cassie's mission is to assimilate back into the house and to find out who murdered Lexie (the girl was using the name Cassie had previously used undercover). I was pretty surprised by the ending; I wasn't sure \"who did it\" if you will. Overall a great mystery- if you like police procedurals you will like all of Tana French's novels. ...more Oh, Lordy. This book chewed me up and spat me out. This isn't going to be one of those reviews where I say a lot. The book was too good, and too overwhelming. I could do it, but it might break me to try. And I'd rather not be broken. So instead, in this review, you will probably get a bunch of nonsense strung together in some stream-of-consciousness excuse for review writing. I DON'T EVEN FEEL BAD ABOUT IT. The Likeness is the second book in Tana French's Dublin Murder Squad books. You don't need Oh, Lordy. This book chewed me up and spat me out. This isn't going to be one of those reviews where I say a lot. The book was too good, and too overwhelming. I could do it, but it might break me to try. And I'd rather not be broken. So instead, in this review, you will probably get a bunch of nonsense strung together in some stream-of-consciousness excuse for review writing. I DON'T EVEN FEEL BAD ABOUT IT. The Likeness is the second book in Tana French's Dublin Murder Squad books. You don't need to have read the first book ( In the Woods ), but you really, really should. One, because it's great. And two, because it will give you context for the story of Cassie Maddox in this book. I love Cassie. I loved her in the first book, and I love her even more in this one. Each book follows a different detective from the Murder Squad, and each book features previous characters in the series to different degrees. Cassie is the former partner of the protagonist in book one, and the protagonist in book three is Cassie's supervisor in this one. Anyway, in this one Detective Cassie Maddox, fresh from her own set of traumas (see: In the Woods ) is caught up in a murder case of a woman who not only could be her identical twin, but it seems the woman has also been living on a fake identity created by Cassie years before for an undercover case. Hence: The Likeness . The uncanny resemblance is never really justified, and the fact that Cassie uses it to infiltrate the lives of Lexie's closest friends is something that you just have to accept. If you can't, you're not going to enjoy the book. But if you can, this book is phenomenal. For me, that likeness was not a big deal. For me, it was obvious almost from the beginning it was just a (very powerful) way in for French to explore Cassie's inner life by means of a metaphor made very real. This is a book about identity, and about family and regret, and the things you've lost and can never get back. It's about the things you have to give up to get the things you want, and the things you want being forever out of reach. It's totally heartbreaking. It's also a murder mystery, with a truly enthralling (and frightening) mystery. But really, Tana French writes mystery books where the main thing you come for isn't the mystery. The main thing you're there for is the intense psychological work she does with her characters. I've never read a series before where an author is so able to suck you in to a fictional character's mind to the point that it actually becomes difficult to separate yourself from that character. Finishing the book, or pulling away from the book in between listening sessions, was an exercise in discombobulation, every time. (The audiobook is EXCELLENT.) I highly, highly recommend this series. ...more \u201cThere's a Spanish proverb,\" he said, \"that's always fascinated me. \"Take what you want and pay for it, says God.'\" \"I don't believe in God,\" \u2026 \"but that principle seems, to me, to have a divinity of its own; a kind of blazing purity. What could be simpler, or more crucial? You can have anything you want, as long as you accept that there is a price and that you will have to pay it.\u201d In spite of the fact that the premise of The Likeness requires a certain amount of suspension of belief, I loved t \u201cThere's a Spanish proverb,\" he said, \"that's always fascinated me. \"Take what you want and pay for it, says God.'\" \"I don't believe in God,\" \u2026 \"but that principle seems, to me, to have a divinity of its own; a kind of blazing purity. What could be simpler, or more crucial? You can have anything you want, as long as you accept that there is a price and that you will have to pay it.\u201d In spite of the fact that the premise of The Likeness requires a certain amount of suspension of belief, I loved this book and I can say without reservation that I\u2019m a big fan of Tana French. Shifting to a new narrator, Detective Cassie Maddox, French injects The Likeness with enough variance from In the Woods to keep it fresh while retaining her beautifully intricate style. Cassie\u2019s voice is different to Rob\u2019s \u2013 but her storytelling is equally engaging, vaguely hypnotic, drawing the reader into her strange and slightly claustrophobic story. Once again, this isn\u2019t a dry police procedural but a dark, psychological thriller that is engaging, yet elusive, never quite giving full answers and constantly moving one step ahead. French\u2019s concept, while arguably unrealistic, is chilling enough that the probability of these events occurring never seems to matter all that much. (Also, the theory of the doppelganger is filed under \u201cThings That Freak Me Out to an Unreasonable Degree\u201d in my brain, so yeah, there was no chance of me brushing this book off.) The story is unsettling, particularly in the atmosphere French creates in Whitethorn House. There\u2019s something seductive and appealing about this small, isolated world \u2013 the bubble of seclusion sheltering its unusual family unit - yet also slightly off . The balance is beautifully executed, never veering into heavy-handed theatrics, but imbued with a slightly gothic ambience. French weaves together two stories: Lexie\u2019s and Cassie\u2019s, twisting them around each other until they\u2019re inseparable. Lexie\u2019s death and Cassie\u2019s life take on an almost symbiotic nature \u2013 the further the mystery of the murder is unravelled, the deeper Cassie is pushed into her own internal issues, and the lines between the two women blur and shift. \u201dI used to think I sewed us together at the edges with my own hands, pulled the stitches tight and I could unpick them any time I wanted. Now I think it always ran deeper than that and farther, underground; out of sight and way beyond my control.\u201d I still can\u2019t quite put my finger on it, but there\u2019s something about French\u2019s books that crawls into my head and makes me not want to put them down. I\u2019m no judge of crime fiction, but I think I can appreciate good writing, and I think this is it. ...more 693 pages in this book and at least 593 of them were the biggest load of waffle I've ever read! So, going against most other reviews, this book was so yawn making boring, just coudnt get to the end quick enough to get it over with. Tana French's first novel In The Woods was a good crime novel, this was not even in the same league, in fact I lost hope that it was a crime novel at all really. It's wordy, very wordy, her prose is spectacular at times but why oh why does this book have to drag out pa 693 pages in this book and at least 593 of them were the biggest load of waffle I've ever read! So, going against most other reviews, this book was so yawn making boring, just coudnt get to the end quick enough to get it over with. Tana French's first novel In The Woods was a good crime novel, this was not even in the same league, in fact I lost hope that it was a crime novel at all really. It's wordy, very wordy, her prose is spectacular at times but why oh why does this book have to drag out paragraphs of mindless waffle? The plot is barely believable, a female detective looks so much like a dead girl that she slips into the dead girls life and home and nobody bats an eyelid? Pfft, as if that's going to happen, why was that even chosen as the storyline? I don't get it, Woods is (or was) a good writer so why? Baffled me. I did a lot of eye rolling reading this and wondering what was wrong with me for not loving this like most others who have reviewed it. It was too long, particularly as most of it is pretty much about nothing. It took 100 pages for Detective Maddox to decide to go undercover or not, please, don't insult the reader, the whole book is based on her being this undercover doppelg\u00e4nger so we KNEW she was going to do it. And the ending? Let's not go there, I've wasted too much time already on this book and this short review, there are better books to conquer. I want the hours of my life back please, very disappointing after enjoying her first novel, certainly not rushing for the next. ...more This is not mystery, it's science fiction. The protagonist-detective Cassie, and the murder victim Lexie, are so physically similar that the victim's best friends - the four roommates she's been living with quite intimately for years - can't tell the difference between the two. So the detective is able to go undercover as the victim with no one the wiser, until one suspicious roommate notices that the detective will eat onions, whereas the victim always refused to eat onions. Look, we all saw th This is not mystery, it's science fiction. The protagonist-detective Cassie, and the murder victim Lexie, are so physically similar that the victim's best friends - the four roommates she's been living with quite intimately for years - can't tell the difference between the two. So the detective is able to go undercover as the victim with no one the wiser, until one suspicious roommate notices that the detective will eat onions, whereas the victim always refused to eat onions. Look, we all saw that Bachelor episode where the Bachelor's identical twin brother came on the show and tried to fool some of the contestants - and he fooled the drunk ones, but many were suspicious. They couldn't put their finger on it (although certainly they would've liked to), but there was just something a little OFF about the twin. But not in this book! Still, the sci-fi thing isn't by itself a debilitating handicap. I have mixed feelings about the book. I kind of hate French's writing style much of the time, the slang and the endless colloquialisms like \"bollocks\" and \"bizarro\" and \"throw a mickey fit\" wear on you; metaphors like \"I hate nostalgia, it's laziness with prettier accessories\" feel crafted and forced. (Plus, they don't make sense.) I didn't really like the protagonist all that much (I liked her partner in In the Woods , Rob, better), but I was interested enough in the plot to keep reading. The book should've been edited down by about 100 pages and French should not have used names which I hate, Cassie and Lexie. This book has motivated me to write a mystery novel about me and my Doppelganger, Henry Kissinger. ...more Tana French can will Never Disappoint. This book literally had me at the edge of my seat and bitting my nails as to who killed Lexie and Why? My mind is still racing and my heart aching. Why (view spoiler) [For the love of God did Daniel have to suffer that end in the end It's unfair. He was my favorite character ( Frank being the next in line ). (hide spoiler) ] Cassie character annoyed me several times throughout this book and I can help but feel if she did not make some stupid decisions things c Tana French can will Never Disappoint. This book literally had me at the edge of my seat and bitting my nails as to who killed Lexie and Why? My mind is still racing and my heart aching. Why (view spoiler) [For the love of God did Daniel have to suffer that end in the end It's unfair. He was my favorite character ( Frank being the next in line ). (hide spoiler) ] Cassie character annoyed me several times throughout this book and I can help but feel if she did not make some stupid decisions things could have ended up differently for all involved. This is more than worth the investment people, I feel like Sherlock Holmes ( Ok not necessarily him ) Watson definitely Watson when I read French books. I'm on a case and raising against time to find the bad guy. I definitely will be continuing with this series as it is simply put a Masterpiece. ...more After loving In The Woods , I was so excited to run out and get this sequel by Tana French, who I found to be a thrilling writer. I was disappointed. Maybe my expectations were too high after her glorious debut, but I found this book dull. I loved Cassie Maddox in the first book, but found her unsympathetic in the sequel; the only motivation and justifications I could find for her actions stemmed from actions in the first book, and didn't tell much more about her character. There were moments I l After loving In The Woods , I was so excited to run out and get this sequel by Tana French, who I found to be a thrilling writer. I was disappointed. Maybe my expectations were too high after her glorious debut, but I found this book dull. I loved Cassie Maddox in the first book, but found her unsympathetic in the sequel; the only motivation and justifications I could find for her actions stemmed from actions in the first book, and didn't tell much more about her character. There were moments I liked, and I read it quickly (the pace is great) but I felt vaguely unsatisfied after finishing. If reading In The Woods was like enjoying a full meal, The Likeness was like eating fast food - enjoyable enough at the time, but disappointing in the long run. Hopefully French will lend her considerable talents to better storylines and more deserving characters in the future. ...more It has taken me a long time to get around to reading Murder Squad 2 because I had serious issues with the first one. If I remember rightly it was due to one of the crimes never being solved in the whole of a rather long book. The Likeness is a long book too, but gosh, it is a good one! Admittedly it is built on the foolish premise that one person can look so much like another that they can take on their identity and fool people they live with. If you can swallow that then the rest is just so ver It has taken me a long time to get around to reading Murder Squad 2 because I had serious issues with the first one. If I remember rightly it was due to one of the crimes never being solved in the whole of a rather long book. The Likeness is a long book too, but gosh, it is a good one! Admittedly it is built on the foolish premise that one person can look so much like another that they can take on their identity and fool people they live with. If you can swallow that then the rest is just so very readable and so very hard to put down. The characters are great, the dialogue is well written and the story is brilliant. Highly recommended and I am ready for the sequel.......... ...more Wow, wow, wow. Tana French has now become one of my favourite authors. I loved In the Woods but The Likeness was something else. Probably my favourite mystery book of all time. Absolutely amazing. Full review to come. Funny how I read French's first book immediately after reading THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO , and now I'm reading her second book immediately after reading THE GIRL WHO PLAYED WITH FIRE. I really sort of hated the ending of INTO THE WOODS (see my review), but many people said this book was BETTER and more focused without all of the \"Rob\" drama, so here I am. So far, I'm enjoying the prose, yet bamboozled by the plot-- an \"exact duplicate\" of the main character just happens to get murdered, and Funny how I read French's first book immediately after reading THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO , and now I'm reading her second book immediately after reading THE GIRL WHO PLAYED WITH FIRE. I really sort of hated the ending of INTO THE WOODS (see my review), but many people said this book was BETTER and more focused without all of the \"Rob\" drama, so here I am. So far, I'm enjoying the prose, yet bamboozled by the plot-- an \"exact duplicate\" of the main character just happens to get murdered, and she's going to try and fit in to the group and pretend to be the murder victim? Uhh... you're walking a very fine line here, Tana French. We'll see how it plays out. EDIT: This is really close to going in the abandoned pile. I just can't seem to get past this ludicrous idea of someone who looks just like someone else stepping into their life and actually blending in with their friends. It's beyond ridiculous, regardless of how many videos she might have had on her \"stonking big memory card.\" I know we have the suspension of disbelief in most fiction, but this just seems too silly for me to get over. EDIT 2: ABANDONED ...more Impressive writing. Somewhat lyrical for a detective/mystery, but it added to the overall enjoyment. While the plot of replacing someone who was already using an assumed identity is improbable, French did a wonderful job of making it almost believable. The plot has a strong psychological angle, as the orphaned Cassie goes undercover, and finds herself in a close-knit circle of friends that are almost like family. Luckily for Cassie, they all have a rule of \"no pasts,\" which helps protect her fro Impressive writing. Somewhat lyrical for a detective/mystery, but it added to the overall enjoyment. While the plot of replacing someone who was already using an assumed identity is improbable, French did a wonderful job of making it almost believable. The plot has a strong psychological angle, as the orphaned Cassie goes undercover, and finds herself in a close-knit circle of friends that are almost like family. Luckily for Cassie, they all have a rule of \"no pasts,\" which helps protect her from inconsistencies in her story. She slowly spirals into worse and worse decision-making, and we can see how her desire for family is clouding her judgement. The murderer is scarcely a surprise to the reader, but the undertone of danger remains because she isn't seeing clearly anymore. ...more Like a great many other people, I thoroughly enjoyed Tana French's debut novel, In the Woods , and I was eagerly anticipating the opportunity to finally get to her second book, The Likeness: A Novel . I find, though, that after finishing it, I have very mixed feelings about it. The book features Dublin Detective Cassie Maddox who returns from \"In the Woods.\" After a particularly brutal murder case, Cassie has transferred out of the Murder Squad and is now working in Domestic Violence. But she is ca Like a great many other people, I thoroughly enjoyed Tana French's debut novel, In the Woods , and I was eagerly anticipating the opportunity to finally get to her second book, The Likeness: A Novel . I find, though, that after finishing it, I have very mixed feelings about it. The book features Dublin Detective Cassie Maddox who returns from \"In the Woods.\" After a particularly brutal murder case, Cassie has transferred out of the Murder Squad and is now working in Domestic Violence. But she is called to the scene of a murder when detectives discover a victim who could be Cassie's identical twin. If that weren't enough, the victim is also carrying ID indicating that she is Lexie Madison, an identity that Cassie created and used when she was formerly working undercover. The victim was a Trinity College graduate student living in an isolated rural house with four other graduate students. There is precious little evidence at the scene, and so Cassie's former boss in the undercover unit, Frank Mackey, conceives of a plan in which the housemates will be told that the victim, Lexie, was wounded but not killed. After a week in which the victim is allegedly being treated in the hospital, Cassie will assume the dead woman's identity, move back into the house and see what evidence she can gather about the murder from within. Not only that, but Cassie will also take over the victim's graduate studies and the students that she was tutoring. All crime novels require that the reader suspend disbelief, at least to some extent, but this one requires a greater leap than most. It's hard to get your head around the fact that in only a week's time, and with only a brief video to study along with interviews of the housemates conducted by other detectives, Cassie could step into this woman's life, living with people that Lexie had known intimately, and that no one is going to suspect the substitution. And neither will the woman's professors and students. Somehow Cassie has also absorbed enough of the subject matter that she can pick up Lexie's professional life as well. If you can get beyond that--and I managed to do so for a while--this is an absolutely engrossing book. French writes beautifully and the strength of the book lies in the characters that she has created and in the world of the Irish culture and countryside that she portrays. And even more interesting than the progress of the investigation itself is watching the effect of the impersonation on Cassie who begins to lose herself as she grows more deeply attached to Lexie's life and the people who surrounded her. Ultimately the book lost me about two-thirds of the way through when one of the characters behaved so irrationally--at least to my mind--that I just couldn't buy into it anymore. Still, even at that, I liked this book quite a bit because in the end, I think, it's strengths far outweighed what, again for me, were it's weaknesses. I already have a copy of French's next book, Faithful Place in my stack of books to be read, and I am anxious to get to it. ...more ***NO SPOILERS*** The wacky premise: detective Cassie Maddox resembles murder victim Lexie Madison so closely that she goes undercover posing as her. Even fans of this book have to admit this is ridiculous; nevertheless , those willing to just go with it and read will find a beautifully written, literary murder mystery narrated with a hefty dose of sass and wit. This is a very introspective, ponderous story packed with poetic writing. Quite often, though, French\u2019s impressive literary style overwhe ***NO SPOILERS*** The wacky premise: detective Cassie Maddox resembles murder victim Lexie Madison so closely that she goes undercover posing as her. Even fans of this book have to admit this is ridiculous; nevertheless , those willing to just go with it and read will find a beautifully written, literary murder mystery narrated with a hefty dose of sass and wit. This is a very introspective, ponderous story packed with poetic writing. Quite often, though, French\u2019s impressive literary style overwhelms. Whereas book one, In the Woods , moves at a steady clip, The Likeness plods. Notably, French spent an inordinate amount of time building up to the meat of the story, with Cassie hesitating about going undercover for chapter after chapter. When French finally introduces the main players, it\u2019s a huge sigh of relief--and exasperation because here she lingers on these characters and, in particular, the setting. The main action takes place in an isolated old house undergoing a major renovation at the hands of Lexie\u2019s friends, who live there. This setting has a gloom and mysticality to it that\u2019s almost spooky--but the condition of the house and its renovation too often steal the spotlight, and what French has to say about its inhabitants is repetitive. Even the look of the grounds is described far too many times. Where French shined the most in this book is in writing her characters. These are five lively college students, with their own quirks. At one point she describes each of their bedrooms, surely knowing full well how much one can tell about someone by how they decorate their living space. As she is in In the Woods , Cassie is an absolute stand-out, the kind of funny character readers love instantly and unconditionally. It\u2019s a true pleasure to not only get to spend more time with her but have her at the forefront. As for the mystery itself, French tried hard to keep it alive and well--and she definitely succeeded. Who killed Lexie? It could possibly be any of these friends. Each has a mysterious side that Cassie works hard to figure out. Each is a little\u2026off somehow. The conclusion is satisfying and may be more pleasing to more people than that of In the Woods . The premise isn\u2019t any less wacky, though, and it\u2019s hard to ever really get on board with it. Final verdict: A well-written second book in the series, worth reading, especially for fans of Cassie, but be patient with it. ...more No pasts. This is the rule for the 5 young adults who live in Whitethorn House. As a result, their lives are rather like a biosphere project\u2014things go off balance because no one in charge realized how important worms or spiders are to the ecosystem. How I remember those achingly close and highly charged relationships of our 20s that we just assume will always be there. You look up some time in your 40s and realize that those people are long gone, you have no idea where they went, and you couldn\u2019 No pasts. This is the rule for the 5 young adults who live in Whitethorn House. As a result, their lives are rather like a biosphere project\u2014things go off balance because no one in charge realized how important worms or spiders are to the ecosystem. How I remember those achingly close and highly charged relationships of our 20s that we just assume will always be there. You look up some time in your 40s and realize that those people are long gone, you have no idea where they went, and you couldn\u2019t contact them if you wanted to. But you do want to, desperately. It\u2019s probably a good thing, though, that you can\u2019t, because those days were lightning in a bottle and can only exist as a rainbow haze in your memory. The Good Old Days. Ms. French is expert at creating intriguingly damaged characters who are still likeable. Cassie Maddox has her issues, but she is still a sympathetic narrator. I was almost happy that she still missed her former Murder Squad partner Rob with such intensity, because I miss him too. [See In the Woods for that part of the story]. Cassie is irresistibly drawn into the arrangement in Whitethorn House because she recognizes it as close facsimile of the closeness of her relationship with Rob. Mind you, this book asks a lot of the reader\u2014a big suspension of disbelief. Cassie\u2019s undercover persona, Lexie Madison, has been appropriated by an \u201cimposter\u201d who has ended up dead. Cassie\u2019s boyfriend on the Murder Squad (Sam) has been called to the scene (because there was a murder, natch), as has her former superior officer (Frank) from Undercover (because one of his \u201coperatives\u201d has died). The freaky catch to all of this? The dead \u201cLexie\u201d is virtually identical to Cassie in appearance. It would be more likely to win the lottery and be struck by lightning ON THE SAME DAY as for this convergence of chance to happen. And yet, because this is Tana French writing, I barely paused to consider it\u2014I just allowed her beautiful writing to pull me along into the increasingly complicated scenario. Because of course she will infiltrate the household and try to find out what happened to her doppelganger. A great, tense plot line that had me thinking about it at work, while trying to catalogue other books. Gorgeous writing\u2014wonderful turns of phrase and beautiful sentences. Not necessarily something you expect to find in a police procedural. I\u2019ve already got a hold on the third book and I\u2019m sure I\u2019ll devour it too. ...more I wasn't sure where Tana French would take us in her second book in her Dublin Murder Squad series, but I was fairly certain--given French is the SHIT--I'd enjoy the ride. Rob and Cassie's story seemed finished after In the Woods , so was surprised and delighted to discover our new protagonist in The Likeness was none other than Cassie, with events occurring shortly after Operation Vestal. I loved the references to Vestal, and the reminiscing Cassie does about that case (including her feelings tow I wasn't sure where Tana French would take us in her second book in her Dublin Murder Squad series, but I was fairly certain--given French is the SHIT--I'd enjoy the ride. Rob and Cassie's story seemed finished after In the Woods , so was surprised and delighted to discover our new protagonist in The Likeness was none other than Cassie, with events occurring shortly after Operation Vestal. I loved the references to Vestal, and the reminiscing Cassie does about that case (including her feelings towards Rob), but they never felt gratuitous: In the Woods can stand on its own, as can The Likeness . Any throwbacks to Vestal are done in a way that captures Cassie's frame of mind going into her new case, Operation Mirror; but, if you have read Woods : you get much more insight into the number Vestal really did on Cassie, and her baggage. It's a nod to past readers, it's brilliant character-building and layering. It's just darn good French. French has a way of inserting nostalgia into her writing where you can actually place a scene/memory/feeling--even a smell: she's that good. I think I appreciate that, and her ability of capturing a protagonist's descent into madness, more than anything in her writing. The plot--while original enough--is secondary in her novels. As for the plot, I experienced some Donna Tartt The Secret History deja vu with The Likeness : outsiders trying to make their way in to tight-knit, academic, mysterious groups. The writing is beautiful in both novels: tense, and, at times devastating. I can't wait to see what French will do in her next novel, Faithful Place . I plan to read it later in the year. Part of me wants to read the rest of the series immediately, but I already feel the need to ration it: anything to make the experience last. ...more", "Title": "The Likeness"},
