{"Comments": "<---A>Patricia Briggs</---A> continues to impress me with her oh-so expressive writing that conveys so much, so economically. I am truly in awe of her talent. Clearly I am very behind on this series. It's not due to a lack of appeal, but due to my reading style and my review reading taking up a lot of my reading time. But I do love knowing that I have a guaranteed read when I reach for one of her books. Mercy is definitely near the top of my list of fictional characters I think I would love to have as a frien Patricia Briggs continues to impress me with her oh-so expressive writing that conveys so much, so economically. I am truly in awe of her talent. Clearly I am very behind on this series. It's not due to a lack of appeal, but due to my reading style and my review reading taking up a lot of my reading time. But I do love knowing that I have a guaranteed read when I reach for one of her books. Mercy is definitely near the top of my list of fictional characters I think I would love to have as a friend in real life.<---F> Probably number one, if I'm honest</---F>. And not just because she's an excellent and trustworthy mechanic (<---B>and I need one of those big time</---B>). Mercy is a mix of real-life traits: humble, down-to-earth,<---M> courageous (even in the face of fear</---M>, which is the true definition of courage), snarky, empathetic, observant, and very self-deprecating. While some readers don't like abuse storylines in their books, I don't mind them when they are done well. Mercy shows so much strength and fortitude of character. Her journey to recovery after her attack in Iron Kissed is realistic and inspiring. I truly love this woman. Briggs writes the kind of fantasy that grabs hold of me and doesn't let go. She plants a garden of what seems like ordinary wildflowers, but exotic blooms that are far from ordinary grow in that garden, waiting to be plucked by a reader. Briggs mixes shapeshifters, werewolves, fae, and vampires in an appealing way that doesn't leave out the inherent menace of all the various supernatural creatures. With a coyote shifter narrator, the reader is fully along for the ride, as Mercy is the first to admit that being a coyote shifter doesn't always give her the advantage, but often puts her in a dangerous situation (while she is more immune to magic than most, she's not impervious.) Oh, and Briggs also throws in ghosts. I must say that I was happy as a clam, since I love fantasy like a house on fire, but I also have an appreciation for old school/classic horror and an old-fashioned ghost story. Can I take the time to gush over the men in Mercy's life? Adam, Adam, Adam! How I love you. He is perfect for Mercy. And I like that Mercy is starting to see past her emotional wounds and barriers to see him for who he is, her Mate. Also, I love that Adam is so patient and loving about it, even though that is an act of hard-won discipline. He's very possessive, but not in a controlling, irritating way. I love a possessive hero like a house on fire, but I find controlling, dominating men a turnoff. Adam is just right for me. I wish I had an Adam in real life! He's very demonstrative that Mercy is his, but he's not trying to dictate to her every step she takes. He's a true life partner. If there was no Adam in the Mercy Thompson world, then I would definitely be all over Samuel. I still love Samuel, very much. I just don't love him for Mercy's mate. I love him all on his own, and I hope he gets the Mate he needs one day. He's a really cool character. Sweet as pie, but also full of danger that makes the hair stand up on one's neck. He seems serious, but has this mischievous sense of humor. His calm facade hides a wild wolf that might never be tamed. Bran is the Man, or rather, the Alpha of the Alphas (Marrok). He steals a scene, no matter who else is in it. And that's saying something in this series! I know Briggs has said she probably won't write a book with Bran as a main character. I'm sad and understanding of that. He's such a mysterious and compelling figure, when he shows up, it's so satisfying but also tantalizing. I can't love him more. I'm always hungry for more of him. Stefan has actually grown on me quite a bit. While I have become quite a vampire romance fan, I still prefer shifters/weres to vampires, and I like that they take center place in this series. But Stefan adds such a nice touch to this series. While he insists on telling Mercy that he is a 'very bad man', his actions say otherwise. I haven't decided who would play my Stefan, but it would have to be an actor with lots of presence. I liked how Briggs develops Mercy's friendship with Stefan much more in this book (it was more assumed at the beginning). I have to say the vampire storyline makes my heart beat fast and gives me shivers. They are truly menacing creatures. The thing with Briggs is that no character is a throwaway. Each one is carefully developed, even for their short presence in this book. You feel everything even in a short scene that you should feel. And while the characters might throw you for a loop at first, their motivations are apparent as the layers peel away. I think that for the short length of this book, it's really a full meal. Urban fantasy for the true lover of the genre. Also, I think a good gateway to those who are investigating this genre for the first time. Mercy by herself is enough to keep a reader hooked. But the secondary characters, the plotting and storyline will have the reader staying for seconds and dessert. Highly recommended! ...more Another satisfying installment in the Mercy series, although there was somewhat of the flavor of an in-between book about it. That's not really a criticism from me; when you are in a series for the long haul, it makes sense to take a breather and deal with all the events your characters have faced as well as integrate a feel of the everyday into their lives. At the end of Iron Kissed, there were at least two significant events that needed follow-up and I would have been disappointed in Briggs as Another satisfying installment in the Mercy series, although there was somewhat of the flavor of an in-between book about it. That's not really a criticism from me; when you are in a series for the long haul, it makes sense to take a breather and deal with all the events your characters have faced as well as integrate a feel of the everyday into their lives. At the end of Iron Kissed, there were at least two significant events that needed follow-up and I would have been disappointed in Briggs as a writer and as a woman if she didn't allow her character recovery time. Mercy's attempting to manage her panic attacks when she gets a surprise visit from her mom that unfortunately coincides with a drop-in visit from Stefen, hungry and emaciated. The wolves help Stefen, but it's the first sign that Marsilia, the vampire queen, knows about what happened to Andre in Blood Bound. Mercy's business and the wolves will become targets as well. Strangely, at the same time, a frenemy from college shows up at Mercy's door looking for help dealing with a ghost harassing her son. For the good of all, Mercy decides to travel to Amber's home, with Stefen shadowing her as support in case she runs into the infamous vampire Blackwood. The first time I read this, pacing felt very irregular to me. But that's kind of a bonus, as series tend towards predictable arcs. Still, there's some strange authorial choices--Stefan, Mercy's mom and Amber all showing up at the same time? Peculiar, and the sort of stuff that says \"hello, red herring\" to the reader in an overly dramatic way. The relationship progresses in generally positive ways. Adam gives Mercy more than enough space, except late in the book when he panics. I thought it a nice balancing act of characterization, as it avoids the 'perfect boyfriend/imperfect girlfriend' baloney and shows that Adam makes mistakes as well. Once again, except for surface conversations with frenemy Amber, Mercy has no real female bonding moments. Everyone--and thing--is male. If it's female, it is not a friend. Seriously, Briggs? What's with the authorial choice there? Reading these stories back to back makes it painfully obvious that there's some odd mental schism in the author's world. I think it ended up contributing to me dropping the series, because in between life-threatening events, it's mostly about Mercy's emotions surrounding her male relationships. All that said, Marsilia continues as one of the most fascinating and complex characters, even if she's prefer to see Mercy dead. Three and a half stars, rounding down because... women. ...more Final review, first posted on www.FantasyLiterature.com: Mercy Thompson, a part-Native American coyote shapeshifter or walker, and full-time mechanic, is still dealing with the emotional aftermath of events in Iron Kissed, but at least she and the local werewolf Alpha, Adam, are on the right track now. Unfortunately for them, their relationship plans promptly get interrupted: Marsilia, the mistress of the local vampire clan or \u201cseethe\u201d (I love that word), has found out that Mercy acted contrary t Final review, first posted on www.FantasyLiterature.com: Mercy Thompson, a part-Native American coyote shapeshifter or walker, and full-time mechanic, is still dealing with the emotional aftermath of events in Iron Kissed, but at least she and the local werewolf Alpha, Adam, are on the right track now. Unfortunately for them, their relationship plans promptly get interrupted: Marsilia, the mistress of the local vampire clan or \u201cseethe\u201d (I love that word), has found out that Mercy acted contrary to her orders in Blood Bound and is out now for Mercy\u2019s blood, quite literally. Marsilia has a set of crossed bones painted on Mercy\u2019s garage door (in magical, non-removable paint) that tells the supernatural world Mercy is a marked woman and free game. All in all, it\u2019s a good time for Mercy to leave town for a few days while her werewolf friends try to negotiate a peaceful resolution with the vampires. So when Mercy\u2019s old college friend, Amber, turns up on her doorstep asking for her to come visit and help with a ghost that\u2019s haunting her Spokane home, it seems like a heaven-sent opportunity. With all of Mercy\u2019s current issues with vampires, it seems Mercy and Adam to be helpful that there\u2019s only one vampire in the entire city of Spokane, one Jim Blackwood. Surely Mercy won\u2019t come to Blackwood\u2019s notice? But in reality, it\u2019s out of the frying pan and into the fire. This fourth book in the MERCY THOMPSON series is my favorite one yet, with tight, intense plotting and an imaginative story line that deftly mixes together ghosts, vampire conspiracies and power games, and fae artifacts all playing role in the plot, along with Mercy\u2019s developing relationship with the long-suffering Adam. Despite all of these competing elements, the plot never gets confusing. Patricia Briggs manages to blend these elements together in a way that not only makes sense but is deeply satisfying. It\u2019s a particular strength in this series that Mercy \u2015 as well as other characters \u2015 don\u2019t get to simply dance through life without paying the fiddler. Emotional and psychological problems aren\u2019t simply resolved within a week, wrapped up with a neat bow and put away forever. In fact, one major issue that I had with Iron Kissed , that the ending too easily smoothed over a weighty personal issue of Mercy\u2019s, was resolved by the beginning of <+++>Bone Crossed</+++> , which casts that scene in a different light as the story continues from that same point. One of the reasons the MERCY THOMPSON series is so appealing to me is the way that Briggs pulls in plot threads from prior books in the series. Time and again, unforeseen consequences and fallout from incidents in previous books in the series resurface, as it becomes apparent that not only are there some loose ends from the past, but they\u2019re creating quite a tangle for Mercy and her friends. Mercy is dealing with the second and third order effects of her past actions, which is fantastic writing as far as I\u2019m concerned. Similarly, characters and iconic items that the reader is already familiar with, like a particular fae walking stick, reemerge to affect Mercy\u2019s life in new ways. For example, her ability to see ghosts, which was previously a key element in Blood Bound , becomes relevant once again as she attempts to help her old friend Amber with a worrisome haunt, and then further develops into an integral part of Mercy\u2019s ongoing story. Either Briggs has plotted out this series extremely carefully, or she\u2019s particularly gifted at reexamining prior books\u2019 plots and finding intriguing ways to carry incidents, characters and themes forward. In either case, it all feels very organic and natural, helping to create an unusual feeling of realism in this urban fantasy world. After thinking about this some more, I'm upping my rating from 4 stars to 5. This book, and the series, deserves it. ...more If there is one reason why I love this series - MERCY THOMPSON\u2026 I want to be her best friend. She\u2019s an amazing character \u2013 brave, strong, humble, feisty, loyal, and she\u2019s a mechanic with a fabulous car!!!! And then there\u2019s her relationship with wolf shape shifter, <---C>Adam Hauptman</---C>!!! He\u2019s a total alpha male\u2026possessive, arrogant, brave but he doesn\u2019t take over Mercy\u2019s life\u2026\u2026\u2026.he respects and admires her\u2026and of course he\u2019s totally in love with her\u2026..swoon\u2026.what a man!!! I love the world the author h If there is one reason why I love this series - MERCY THOMPSON\u2026 I want to be her best friend. She\u2019s an amazing character \u2013 brave, strong, humble, feisty, loyal, and she\u2019s a mechanic with a fabulous car!!!! And then there\u2019s her relationship with wolf shape shifter, Adam Hauptman!!! He\u2019s a total alpha male\u2026possessive, arrogant, brave but he doesn\u2019t take over Mercy\u2019s life\u2026\u2026\u2026.he respects and admires her\u2026and of course he\u2019s totally in love with her\u2026..swoon\u2026.what a man!!! I love the world the author has created filled with fantasy characters - shape shifters, fae, vampires, werewolves, coyotes that makes this series truly addictive. Her character development is incredible and some of the secondary characters have really engaging and endearing\u2026.Stefan, Mercy\u2019s vampire friend, Samuel, Mercy\u2019s mother!!! Bones Crossed, the 4th book in this series has an engrossing storyline that kept me captivated until the last page. I can\u2019t wait to get more of Mercy Thompson!! ...more Mercy, mercy, Mercy! Patricia Briggs latest Mercy Thompson novel \"<+++>Bone Crossed</+++>\" kept me on the edge of my seat, furiously reading to find out what happened next! There's good news and bad news in Mercy's latest adventure and just when you think things will settle down, BAM, there's someone new looking to mess with Mercy's peace. Mercy is still recovering from her brutal rape at the hands of a fae 'possessed' wacko. Mercy managed to kill the b^%tard, but it will be a while before the psychological Mercy, mercy, Mercy! Patricia Briggs latest Mercy Thompson novel \"Bone Crossed\" kept me on the edge of my seat, furiously reading to find out what happened next! There's good news and bad news in Mercy's latest adventure and just when you think things will settle down, BAM, there's someone new looking to mess with Mercy's peace. Mercy is still recovering from her brutal rape at the hands of a fae 'possessed' wacko. Mercy managed to kill the b^%tard, but it will be a while before the psychological scars heal, if ever. The good news is that she's finally decided to mate with Adam. The bad news is she's not sure how long it will take before she can get close to him without a panic attack. The good news is he's willing to wait and help her recover. The bad news is her friend Stefan the vampire appears suddenly and close to real death, just having time to say \"She knows\". That means the vampire Queen is aware that Mercy managed to kill not one, but two of her creatures...and now she wants Mercy's blood, and not just for a snack. I think my heart rate is still elevated after this one. I have to rate this series as one of my absolute fave fantasies, right up there with Hamilton and Ward. The difference with Briggs is that I let my sons read these stories (PG fating)! A strong heroine, shapeshifters, fae (they're NOT the fae from your childhood stories either), vampires, creatures of lore, and a pagan god or two make their way into Briggs' stories and Mercy's world...and it all flows together smooth as silk. Now I have to wait another year for my next fix! ...more I really liked this book, this series gets better and better actually. The cast is filling out nicely, and although there were a few plot twists that were a little obscure, whatever. Nice emotional arc for the character, I really enjoyed it, hardback purchase justified!! January 2017 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah January 2016 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah : I've never really loved this book as much as the previous 2 in the series, before. But this re-read was different for me. It was stronger here. I appreciated the villain, and the story, and everything that was happening. Mercy needed this time, needed this moment - especially after the events of the last book. And - even though this is one of the worst villains she's faced yet - it was, to me, a welcome repri January 2017 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah January 2016 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah : I've never really loved this book as much as the previous 2 in the series, before. But this re-read was different for me. It was stronger here. I appreciated the villain, and the story, and everything that was happening. Mercy needed this time, needed this moment - especially after the events of the last book. And - even though this is one of the worst villains she's faced yet - it was, to me, a welcome reprieve after the heart-wrenching moments in the last book. Not that there aren't plenty of them here. After all, one doesn't heal immediately from the events at the end of Iron Kissed . Even though Mercy spends some time away from the Tri-Cities, we get plenty of development with her relationships - with everyone. And I love that. Original Review: Mercy's barely a week out from the tragic events that happened at the end of Iron Kissed when Stefan pops in at her feet, a blackened husk, whispering \"She knows.\" With vampires stalking her steps and pressing vague attacks on the werewolves in her life, Mercy decides to take a trip to help a friend with a ghost. Of course, it just couldn't be that simple and Mercy finds herself in a much scarier predicament. Not quite as good as Blood Bound and Iron Kissed , but still a pretty solid read. The \"mystery\" story-line wasn't as appealing to me, but there's so much development with the characters (Mercy and Adam in particular, with quite a bit from Stefan) that I can't help but enjoy this every time. ...more *** 4 *** This installment in the Mercy world seemed to be more of a refining and a bridging book. After the horrible and devastating experiences Mercy had in the last book, the author decided that she, as well as us, the readers, need a bit of recovery and regrouping time. She does that by slowing the pace a bit and letting Mercy and the wolfs work on developing their relationship. She also found a way to intensify Stephan's connection with the little coyote (poor vampire had to go through real *** 4 *** This installment in the Mercy world seemed to be more of a refining and a bridging book. After the horrible and devastating experiences Mercy had in the last book, the author decided that she, as well as us, the readers, need a bit of recovery and regrouping time. She does that by slowing the pace a bit and letting Mercy and the wolfs work on developing their relationship. She also found a way to intensify Stephan's connection with the little coyote (poor vampire had to go through real torture courtesy of the vamp mistress), and the magic walking stick kept cuddling up with her every chance it got and followed her about like a pup. The focus of the story this time was on Mercy getting over the emotional trauma, which had left her with paralyzing panic attacks at random moments and her almost aversion to touch... It is also sad how helpless she feels every time another one of her always powerful enemies takes away her will, thus re-traumatising her over and over!!! Who would not start doubting their strength and sanity under such circumstances??? But her weaknesses are what makes us root for her and her ability to dust herself off and despite her fears, get herself up and fighting again, are what makes her our hero... Reading this was not as easy and engaging as the previous book, but it was layered with characters, feelings and situations with which I am sure the author is laying the foundation for the stories to come. I am aflutter with anticipation and having all the published volumes of the series, I am jumping into the next at once! Have a fun time reading to all!!! ...more This was a pretty good read, but not as satisfying as the earlier books. Why is there always a drop in quality when these series move into hardback? First of all, this book picks up right where the previous one left off, as if the action had been uninterrupted. It didn't feel like an opening chapter, but rather like I had opened a book in the middle and picked a chapter at random. The emotional intensity of the earlier books is missing here, particularly in Mercy's interaction with Stefan. The bo This was a pretty good read, but not as satisfying as the earlier books. Why is there always a drop in quality when these series move into hardback? First of all, this book picks up right where the previous one left off, as if the action had been uninterrupted. It didn't feel like an opening chapter, but rather like I had opened a book in the middle and picked a chapter at random. The emotional intensity of the earlier books is missing here, particularly in Mercy's interaction with Stefan. The book is too short and too crowded with characters for the author to spend enough time on any one of them. It reminded me a little of a Laurell Hamilton book, which is not a good thing. The first third of the novel has an almost frantic level of activity, but the pace thankfully slows after that and the story begins to have more of the feel of the previous Mercy books. I did like the overall plot, and I like Stefan. I wish the author had spent more time fleshing out his character. The book could have used another 100 pages. ...more Posted on Under the Covers This is my second time reading Bone Crossed . Having not read the first three books the first time, I was completely lost to what was happening. I didn\u2019t feel attached to Mercy\u2019s character and didn\u2019t find the romance engaging. This time around though, everything was in perspective and I found that this book was a lot \u201clighter\u201d in terms of the banter between characters. Briggs really kicked up the humour in this book! I found myself stupidly smiling at the teasing between Posted on Under the Covers This is my second time reading Bone Crossed . Having not read the first three books the first time, I was completely lost to what was happening. I didn\u2019t feel attached to Mercy\u2019s character and didn\u2019t find the romance engaging. This time around though, everything was in perspective and I found that this book was a lot \u201clighter\u201d in terms of the banter between characters. Briggs really kicked up the humour in this book! I found myself stupidly smiling at the teasing between Mercy and the werewolves and I noticed that Mercy\u2019s got a smart mouth in this one! This line was particularly funny: There was even a \u201cHo, ho, ho,\u201d if you skipped around a little and deleted an \u201ce\u201d on the last \u201cho\u201d. Our green painter had a limited vocabulary and occasionally mixed up a professional working woman with a garden implement. Har har! One thing that\u2019s different about this series is that the vampires don\u2019t give off \u201cfuck me\u201d pheromones. Instead, they\u2019re scary as hell, which is just as effective as keeping readers on their toes. James Blackwood creeps me out and the ending with the ghosts and zombie thing just wasn\u2019t for me. Yuck! But the biggest thing about this book is probably the relationship between Mercy and Adam. While they aren\u2019t going at it like rabbits, there\u2019s still one scene that is particularly memorable. There\u2019s something unique about Briggs\u2019 writing because even though she holds off on the sex, people still read it! That to me is a testament to her writing skill. There\u2019s so much more to Mercy and her world than just her relationships. And it\u2019s a world I\u2019d love to read more of. Favourite Quote: \u201cJust like Medea,\u201d he murmured. \u201cAll I have to do is put my hands on you. You can be spitting mad...and then you lean against me and go all soft and still.\u201d He put his mouth against my ear. \u201cThat\u2019s how I know you want me as much as I want you.\u201d His arms were tight around me, and I knew that I wasn\u2019t the only one with wounds. ...more I think I had a fairly good run. I managed to read two whole books before becoming once again severely put out with/by Mercy Thompson. This at least, lets me know that it was not my finicky mood that caused me to dislike Moon Called rather, there are honest to goodness irritants imbedded in Mercy\u2019s character description and narration that annoys this shit out of me. First let me state how appalled I am by the fact that Briggs allowed her rapped heroine to have sex only a week after her rape. WTF I think I had a fairly good run. I managed to read two whole books before becoming once again severely put out with/by Mercy Thompson. This at least, lets me know that it was not my finicky mood that caused me to dislike Moon Called rather, there are honest to goodness irritants imbedded in Mercy\u2019s character description and narration that annoys this shit out of me. First let me state how appalled I am by the fact that Briggs allowed her rapped heroine to have sex only a week after her rape. WTF? Second, Briggs wrote far too many inconsistencies for me to believe that Mercy was either traumatized or healing from her rape. One minute she is having panic attacks, the next she is wagging her bare ass at her dull lover as he looks on from across the room. Again I ask, WTF? And further shame to Briggs for dragging out a sex scene between Adam and Mercy for four books, only to have it fade to black. At least own it if you are going to include it. Christ. I\u2019m going to stop now because I\u2019m working myself into a heated frenzy just thinking about it. You annoyed me Ms. Briggs, and this was your second chance. I doubt there will be a third. *Side Note* Stefan, I still love you, even though you suffer in poor taste, given that you are in lurve with Mercy and all, but I forgive you as I suspect you are merely a casualty of piss poor character development. ...more Finally, Stefan is back on the scene, still mysterious in motive, but protective to our heroine, Mercy. And that is despite his treatment by the local vampire seethe. (Isn\u2019t that a great collective noun for vampires?) This is also the book that sees Mercy make her choice between werewolves Adam and Samuel. I\u2019m somewhat disappointed that she had to choose, rather than remaining independent. So often, once a choice is made, the sexual tension drains out of a series and it becomes less interesting. Finally, Stefan is back on the scene, still mysterious in motive, but protective to our heroine, Mercy. And that is despite his treatment by the local vampire seethe. (Isn\u2019t that a great collective noun for vampires?) This is also the book that sees Mercy make her choice between werewolves Adam and Samuel. I\u2019m somewhat disappointed that she had to choose, rather than remaining independent. So often, once a choice is made, the sexual tension drains out of a series and it becomes less interesting. I will be interested to see how Briggs maintains the forward momentum. Also of interest, Mercy continues to discover the special powers of a skinwalker that make her anathema to the mainstream vamps. She is extremely fortunate to have Stefan as a friend & protector and I hope this means that he will continue to appear in future volumes. I still maintain that Mercy needs some women friends, and not like her friend Amber who shows up in this installment. She needs some strong, good women in her life to help her sort out all the demanding men in her world. Once again, the cover art makes me shake my head. Who in the world are they trying to appeal to? Take my word for it, Mercy looks nothing like the covers. ...more 3.5 Figures, the moment I think about giving up with this series, the 4th picks up!!! Liked it much more than all the others, simply because Adam and Mercy interact with each other. I don't need sex in the books, that's why I love reading YA books, but I do need for both main characters have some sort of communication. And this book gave me that. And still, I like more the vamps in this series than werewolves. And I usually go for furry animals and not blood sucking ones. Definitely will continue 3.5 Figures, the moment I think about giving up with this series, the 4th picks up!!! Liked it much more than all the others, simply because Adam and Mercy interact with each other. I don't need sex in the books, that's why I love reading YA books, but I do need for both main characters have some sort of communication. And this book gave me that. And still, I like more the vamps in this series than werewolves. And I usually go for furry animals and not blood sucking ones. Definitely will continue with the series, but I am gonna pause for some time... ...more 1st Read: 15 July, 2012 I like almost all the characters in this series, isn't that weird?! 2nd read: 24-25 June, 2015 I love the series. This is the first book where we get the dual-plotline format, presumably because Briggs liked both concepts but couldn't figure out a way to stretch them both out into book length. It's strange to have one plot advertised on the cover, and then have a completely different one make up most of the book, especially when there is nothing tying the two together, except Mercy. It must suck to have two super powerful bad guys plotting against you at the exact same time. There\u2019s nothing particularly memo This is the first book where we get the dual-plotline format, presumably because Briggs liked both concepts but couldn't figure out a way to stretch them both out into book length. It's strange to have one plot advertised on the cover, and then have a completely different one make up most of the book, especially when there is nothing tying the two together, except Mercy. It must suck to have two super powerful bad guys plotting against you at the exact same time. There\u2019s nothing particularly memorable about Bone Crossed. Mercy is done wavering between men and has basically settled into a relationship with Adam. She is done fighting for her independence, and just accepts all the decisions that Adam makes for her where she would have at least argued one or two books ago. Because we\u2019ve seen what happens when Mercy makes decisions for her self. It just really seems that in this book Mercy is broken. This is understandable after having been raped, but we feel that she allows to much of her self to be lost and stops fighting for the normal, uncomplicated life that she wanted to build. Instead she throws herself head first into the werewolf society she\u2019d previously decided against by becoming a member of a pack and the Alpha\u2019s mate. The manner in which Adam makes Marcy pack is probably our biggest issue with this book, and the best example of Mercy\u2019s transformation. Having taken Stefan\u2019s blood in Blood Bound, Mercy still has a psychic connection to him, and feels his despair upon learning that his flock has been wiped out. This triggers a panic attack in Mercy, while she is with Adam. Adam realizes why she is panicking, and without giving Mercy a choice, performs the ceremony that makes her pack, which breaks the connection to Stefan. He then states, \u201cHe can\u2019t have you. Not now. Not ever. I don\u2019t owe him that.\u201d After calming down, Adam rightly feels that he did wrong, and should be berated for his presumption. But the new, improved Mercy is not angry. Instead, she says this: \u201cThank you, Adam [...] Thank you for tearing Tim into small Tim bits. Thank you for forcing me to drink one last cup of fairy bug-juice so i could have use of both of my arms. Thank you for being there, for putting up with me. Thank you for keeping me from being another one of Stefan\u2019s sheep-I\u2019ll take pack over that any day. Thank you for making the tough calls, for giving me time. Thank you for loving me.\" WHY THANK YOU ADAM FOR MAKING ALL MY FUCKING DECISIONS FOR ME. This is how much Mercy has changed. Adam flat-out admits that he made her pack because he didn\u2019t want her to have a connection with someone else (possessive much?). Even Adam realizes that this was overstepping his bounds. But Mercy thanks him. WHAT THE HELL! SHE THANKS HIM. This is another step in the breaking down of Mercy Thompson. Where previously she would have been livid and argued, she has now accepted that her man Adam knows what\u2019s best for her. It\u2019s worth noting that Mercy\u2019s only real act of independence in this book is to decide who to subjugate herself to, Stefan or the big bad, Blackwood. Girl power... Read more at You're Killing.Us ...more walking stick \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2729 (Review of audiobook.) This fourth installment of Mercy Thompson \u2019s series is very well narrated by Lorelei King. Ms. King certainly has cemented her voice as Mercy\u2019s in my brain and she delivers nicely for this first person narrative. Love her Italian accent for Stefan, who features prominently in this volume. As far as the story, it is so great to hear Mercy \u201crise above\u201d what had happened to her and do so realistically. (I was pretty upset after Iron Kissed . I wanted to give t walking stick \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2729 (Review of audiobook.) This fourth installment of Mercy Thompson \u2019s series is very well narrated by Lorelei King. Ms. King certainly has cemented her voice as Mercy\u2019s in my brain and she delivers nicely for this first person narrative. Love her Italian accent for Stefan, who features prominently in this volume. As far as the story, it is so great to hear Mercy \u201crise above\u201d what had happened to her and do so realistically. (I was pretty upset after Iron Kissed . I wanted to give the series a rest because yes, I\u2019m a wuss! The third one drew me into it so deep ! With what is going on in my life right now, I didn\u2019t want to deal with Mercy\u2019s \u201crecovery.\u201d Thus, I was a little leery.) However, I was lured back to this marvelous series by people wanting to do a \u201cbuddy read\u201d \u2013 only to have them have crises and other Real Life commitments take them away after the first four chapters! Well, if Mercy can be brave, so can I. Therefore, I persevered on my own; so glad I did! I should have known the wonderful Ms. Briggs, with her nifty storytelling capabilities, would handle it with just the right touch of humor. Here Mercy also reinforces her relationship with her chosen mate. We also get vampires, werewolves, fae, ghosts, humans, and \u2013 zombies! In addition, we get a couple questioned answered too, which is quite neat. A couple of noteworthy comments: \u25c8\tMan-oh-man! I detest Marsilia. I know we are supposed to, but I really, really hate her. Ms. King voices the Vampire Queen B!tch of the Universe with a perfect sneer in her accented tone, making me hate Mistress Marsilia all the more. Mercy\u2019s lamb necklace * www.etsy.com \u25c8\tI was very worried when Mercy\u2019s necklace went missing. I can be a little dense when it comes to the Urban Fantasy genre, so if someone could tell me (view spoiler) [who took it; who retuned it? Did the young ghost John, on command from James Blackwood, AKA, The Monster? (hide spoiler) ] , I\u2019d appreciate it. \u25c8\tMs. Briggs isn\u2019t very explicit in her sex scenes, but man can she convey the heat between couples. Don\u2019t you agree? \u25c8\tI had a small medium-sized beef with one thing (view spoiler) [ a ghost can drink blood? WTH? (hide spoiler) ] , but that really was the only one. \u25c8\tI have to figure out how to space out the next two books so that I am not sitting on the edge of my seat for book #7. * Thanks to all of you from various groups who voted in my poll for what the necklace should look like. Several people agreed it was more three dimensional than this one. But I think this won because, as Sandra (from SOS ) said, \u201cI just pictured something cute so the vamps wouldn't think anything of it.\u201d #7- Frost Burned<--expected publication 2013 [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more First Read: March 2010 Original rating: 4/5 stars Re-read: December 2016 New rating: 5/5 stars For me the Mercy Thompson series goes from strength to strength with each progressive book in the series. Bone Crossed somehow manages to surpass Iron Kissed which is one of my favourite UF books. Here Mercy has to deal with the ramifications of two major events that have happened in the past few months; (view spoiler) [the murder of Marsilia's second in command Andre (hide spoiler) ] and her ongoing trauma First Read: March 2010 Original rating: 4/5 stars Re-read: December 2016 New rating: 5/5 stars For me the Mercy Thompson series goes from strength to strength with each progressive book in the series. Bone Crossed somehow manages to surpass Iron Kissed which is one of my favourite UF books. Here Mercy has to deal with the ramifications of two major events that have happened in the past few months; (view spoiler) [the murder of Marsilia's second in command Andre (hide spoiler) ] and her ongoing trauma from (view spoiler) [the rape and subsequent murder of her rapist. (hide spoiler) ] One thing that I have always loved from the beginning of the series is how Mercy deals with situations and events. She is so loyal and protective to those that mean so much to her, but at the same time she uses her brains and diplomacy rather than brute force to resolve situations. I think she is one of the most likeable characters I have read in the UF genre. One thing that perhaps pushes the boundaries of 'realism' a little is the idea that (view spoiler) [Stefan has feelings for her. I don't buy it. I get that Adam loves Mercy and they definitly have the chemistry. I also get that Samuel learned to love her after realising she was his best chance of having a family again. But Stefan too? (hide spoiler) ] I don't want Briggs to fall into that tired trope of making her main character irresistible to everyone but she [Mercy] doesn't see it because she thinks she's so average looking and modest etc. etc. In terms of decent secondary female characters (something Briggs does struggle with) we get Margi, Mercy's mother and Amber, an old college acquaintance. I was pleasantly surprised by Margi. Going by the earlier books I'd assumed she was a deadbeat mother who abandoned her daughter to Bran and the pack. Here she finally steps onto the page and she comes across as a tough, practical woman, albeit one who is always underestimated based on her good looks and outward 'Barbie' appearance. It is clear she loves Mercy and it was her pragmatic nature that caused her to let Bran take Mercy in and raise her rather than because she was trying to shirk her responsibilities. Amber and her family were a wonderful set of side characters. (view spoiler) [I thought Amber's character arc was tragic and redemptive: underneath the superficial 'show dog' exterior that Mercy first saw was a strong and brave woman who refused to abandon her son and husband even after death and all the indignities heaped upon her by Blackwood. (hide spoiler) ] The introduction of Blackwood shows us another side to the vampire mythos in Mercy's world. Blackwood is a powerful and solitary vampire with no Seethe to hold him to account. His treatment of Amber's family is horrific and his abuses to (view spoiler) [the Fae/woodland creature (hide spoiler) ] later on shows how vampiric powers can be amplified and used against other supernatural beings. Overall Iron Kissed is a strong instalment in a series that keeps growing in strength, characterisation and world building. Five stars. ...more Yay, Stefan's back in this book! Since he is my favorite character in the series, I seriously missed him in the last book. And, he is better than ever. \"Want to explain to the kid that I'm more a Spike than a Buffy? A villain, not a superhero?\" I batted my eyelashes at him. \"You're my hero.\"... \"I'm no one's hero, Mercy.\" I turned my face until I was looking directly at Chad. \"Do you think that means I won't get to see him in spandex?\"... Chad made a yuck face. \"hey,\" I told them, \"watching good-lo Yay, Stefan's back in this book! Since he is my favorite character in the series, I seriously missed him in the last book. And, he is better than ever. \"Want to explain to the kid that I'm more a Spike than a Buffy? A villain, not a superhero?\" I batted my eyelashes at him. \"You're my hero.\"... \"I'm no one's hero, Mercy.\" I turned my face until I was looking directly at Chad. \"Do you think that means I won't get to see him in spandex?\"... Chad made a yuck face. \"hey,\" I told them, \"watching good-looking men run around in tight-fitting costumes is high on my list of things I'd like to do before I die.\" yeah, me too... So, in this book, we have Mercy dealing with the aftermath of her attack in the last book. She has panic attacks and flashbacks, but still, I would say that it would have been much better to just not have the whole rape thing in the storyline because I feel like it is way too light to be respectful of real rape victims. As a matter of fact, let me just state that I would be happy if there were no rape scenes at all. In real life or books. The story in this book goes back to the vampires with Marsilia going after Mercy and marking her for death with a skull and crossbones type of thing on her door. This propels Mercy in to leaving town, right in to the clutches of a whole new set of problems - and things that want to kill her. This girl has a hella lot of creatures that want to kill her! I liked the overall plotline, but mostly liked Stefan in the book, along with the little boy. I am hopeful that the next book or so will give us something that makes Samuel happy because he deserves it. ...more I feel like if I tried to explain what I do and don't like about these books, it's not going to make any sense. My mind wanders. Even during the \"exciting\" parts. I don't know. I wish I did. It must be a personal style thing because I do read \"non-fluffy\" books and \"not the usual genre standard\" books. My mind wanders. Even right after I finish a chapter which held my interest, my mind wanders when things lull out for a minute. The series is good enough, but not grabbing me. I'll possibly try bo I feel like if I tried to explain what I do and don't like about these books, it's not going to make any sense. My mind wanders. Even during the \"exciting\" parts. I don't know. I wish I did. It must be a personal style thing because I do read \"non-fluffy\" books and \"not the usual genre standard\" books. My mind wanders. Even right after I finish a chapter which held my interest, my mind wanders when things lull out for a minute. The series is good enough, but not grabbing me. I'll possibly try book 5 after a break (how many months did I put between 3 and 4? I don't even know, but it was a lot). ...more \u201cOne of the oddest things about being grown-up was looking back at something you thought you knew and finding out the truth of it was completely different from what you had always believed.\u201d Well isn\u2019t that true. Mercy has always felt like she was on the outside looking in and alone. Raised by the wolves she was still never part of the pack, little did she know how important she was to Bran the Alpha of all Alphas. When she accepted Adam as her mate she never really knew what that would mean. N \u201cOne of the oddest things about being grown-up was looking back at something you thought you knew and finding out the truth of it was completely different from what you had always believed.\u201d Well isn\u2019t that true. Mercy has always felt like she was on the outside looking in and alone. Raised by the wolves she was still never part of the pack, little did she know how important she was to Bran the Alpha of all Alphas. When she accepted Adam as her mate she never really knew what that would mean. Now that she is part of the pack it isn\u2019t really what she expected it to be. It is hard to have people in your head when you have felt alone most of your life. Marsila has figured out that Mercy had something to do with the death of her demon raising vampire and is out to get her. But since Mercy is now protected by the pack Marsila has to find a new way to punish her. In an effort to help her pack and an old college friend, she heads out of town to help with a ghost problem. Stefan tags along to look after her while Adam sorts out the problems with Marsila. But it seems that the only vampire in town there might have other plans for her. \u201cOnly you could go to Spokane and get bitten by the one vampire in the whole city.\u201d Mercy, Mercy, Mercy you find trouble in the darnedest places, it seems Adam can\u2019t let you out of his sight for a minute. It was only supposed to be a ghost problem but it seems that the ghost that is haunting a little boy is more than Mercy planned for. I always like that the Mercy Thompson books are always more than they seem. There are a few layers to everything that is going on. This one in particular was interesting because there was the Vampire in Spokane that wants something from Mercy as well as Marsila and her political maneuverings that involve Stefan. Marsila is crafty and vengeful to say the least. The storyline was well thought out and there were quite a few instances that I was worried for characters. Other than that I like all the side things that are going on that may or may not come into play later. There is the walking stick that seems to like Mercy and follows her around, her cat that likes vampires, werewolves and coyotes, a book on fae and Mercy\u2019s ability to find trouble around every corner. I was happy to see more of Stefan he is one of my favorite characters, he is the Spike (everyone should know who that is) of the series. \u201cThat\u2019s a pretty lame superhero name,\u201d I told him. \u201cScooby-Doo is already taken,\u201d he said with dignity. \u201cAnything else sounds lame in comparison.\u201d He is the Vampire who doesn\u2019t really have a heart of gold but\u2026..he is better than most. I love his weird obsession with Scooby-Doo This is still a super fun series. I enjoyed getting so see a little relationship progression with Mercy and Adam because I <3<3<3 them together. ...more Loved it more the second time. 4.5 stars. Tied with Silver Borne for BEST in the series, IMO. First reading, gave it barely 4 stars, but after reading the sequels to it (books 5-7) I liked it more. Major plot events (HUGE SPOILERS!): (view spoiler) [ Mercy was raped a week ago by Tim, so she has flashback and panic attacks, but is just beginning to recover, especially by making choices for herself. Adam and Mercy pledge the mating words in haste, on the grass beside the junker Rabbit. It went down Loved it more the second time. 4.5 stars. Tied with Silver Borne for BEST in the series, IMO. First reading, gave it barely 4 stars, but after reading the sequels to it (books 5-7) I liked it more. Major plot events (HUGE SPOILERS!): (view spoiler) [ Mercy was raped a week ago by Tim, so she has flashback and panic attacks, but is just beginning to recover, especially by making choices for herself. Adam and Mercy pledge the mating words in haste, on the grass beside the junker Rabbit. It went down like this: In his troubled sleep, Stefan jumps into Mercy\u2019s mind, calling for her (he\u2019s just been starved and nearly fried by Marsilia, the vampire queen. So\u2026Adam gets jealous, scared, possessive, thinking that Stefan is taking over Mercy, so\u2026 while kissing her he thrusts a chuck of his bitten-off forearm into her mouth, speaking the mating words. She repeats the words to him. So they\u2019re mated. Immediately afterwards, Adam feels ashamed; he apologies for forcing the mating on her. She says its okay, but she's not ready to live with him and his whole pack yet. Adam teaches Mercy to bond with the pack, thinking it will help with the panic attacks, but Mercy is overwhelmed by a flood of memories and thoughts so she blacks out. Samuel chews Adam out. Bran comes to see Mercy, making sure she is okay from her rape and hasty mating. With the help of Samuel and Stefan, he encourages her to leave town, go to Spokane to get rid of a ghost for Amber, her old college buddy. With the help of Lugh\u2019s powerful walking stick and Donnell Greenleaf (an oakman, a fae held captive for 93 years, or as he says: \"four-score years and a dozen and one. Two seasons more and eighteen days.\" \u30c4, Mercy saves Chad and Corban Wharton by killing vampire James Blackwood, \"The Monster\". She (hopefully) kills the old vamp ghost, \"Grandmother Death\" (but no body, no ashes). She gives a yellow toy car to John, the adolescent ghost/vampire. Adam cleans up the legal mess so Corban and Chad can live a normal life and not go to trial for the death of Amber, Chad's mother (Blackwood killed her, made her into a walking dead, so Mercy released her to death). Marsilia convenes a vampire court and finds Bernard and Estella guilty of betrayal. Evil Gauntlet Boy kills his \u201cmake\u201d Estrella and takes his \u201cmake\u201d Bernard back to his home, for further training. Stefan discovers that Marisilia tortured him to force the hand of her enemies, but that she did not, after all, kill his \u201cchildren\u201d \u2013 the menagerie of thralls who feed him. Marsilia invites Stefan back into the seethe. He agrees to come back \u2026. tomorrow. (hide spoiler) ] Favorite parts (SPOILERS): (view spoiler) [ Mercy\u2019s interactions with Adam, especially the laughs and the tender healing scenes, and the love scene (sigh) When Bran came to check on Mercy (loved the conversation w them and Samuel and Stefan) Mercy\u2019s interactions with Chad, the deaf boy (well done!) Mercy\u2019s interactions with poor Donnell, the oakman (and I loved his gift of a young oak tree for Mercy) I get a chuckle out of how Lugh's walking stick shows up when needed (oakman speared it into Blackwood's back) All the parts with Stefan and Mercy!! Sexy Stefan, so honorable, so damned When Mercy gave a yellow car to the adolescent ghost/vampire John Mercy\u2019s guts and compassion throughout the book, especially her concern for Stefan, Samuel, Chad, Amber, Corban, and even Mary Jo, who was dead until Baba Yaga healed her broken body and Adam applied CPR. (hide spoiler) ] Characters in this book (mild spoilers) (view spoiler) [ Mercedes Athena Thompson, (Mercy) a human-coyote shifter, a mechanic Adam Hauptman, Alpha of the Tri-Cities werewolf pack, owns a security agency Jessie Hauptman, Adam's teenage daughter Bran Cornick The Marrok, werewolf ruling all wolves in North America Samuel, Bran\u2019s eldest son, a lone werewolf, Mercy\u2019s roommate, a doctor Charles Cornick, Samuel's half-bro, Bran's youngest son and pack enforcer Pack: Warren, Darryl, Aurielle, Mary Jo, Paul, Alec, Ben, Peter, (Kyle) Margi/Margaret, Mercy\u2019s mom who lives in Portland (last name Thompson?) Amber and Corban Wharton, Mercy\u2019s old college friend, in Spokane Chad Wharton, their 10-year old deaf son who is haunted by ghosts Vampires: Signora Marsilia, Mistress of the Tri-Cities vampire seethe Stefan Uccello, \u201cSoldier\u201d a powerful and sexy vampire, Mercy\u2019s friend Gauntlet Boy, Mercy\u2019s name for evil vamp who \u201cmade\u201d Bernard and Estelle Wulfe, \u201cWizard\u201d a possibly insane magical vamp who looks 17 James Blackwood, \u201cThe Monster\u201d an evil \u201cdaylight\u201d vamp in Spokane Catherine, \u201cGrandmother Death,\u201d a vamp/ghost who kills by touch John, a teenage vamp/ghost, he was \u201cmade\u201d by Blackwood Fae characters: Donnell Greenleaf, an oakman, typically stout, now emaciated from cage Ymir, a \"snow elf\" with a Norse accent, had wolves in the mountains Uncle Mike, \"The Green Man\" runs a tavern called \u201cUncle Mikes\u201d Baba Yaga, has healing powers, eats children in old faery tales Siebold (Zee) Adelbertsmiter, a gremlin, a fae warrior disguised as old mechanic and metalsmith. He owns Mercy's shop (hide spoiler) ] Quibbles: I\u2019ve got no BONES with the content, just a few minor quibbles. For example, the opening scene happens at 11pm, and then later Samuel says it\u2019s daytime and then he says it\u2019s night again, time to go to sleep. Also, in this book, Mercy says Charles taught her how to drive and fix a car (the Porsche discussion with Bran and Samuel) but in book 1, Moon Called, Mercy says Zee taught her everything she knows about fixing cars. Also, Charles is younger than Samuel, but in this book, Charles is described as Bran\u2019s eldest son (page 100). Quality of editing: A few GHOSTS in the e-book. Sometimes Donnell Greenleaf's self-named fae classification is formatted \u201cthe Oakman\u201d (capital O) and other times it\u2019s \u201cthe oakman\u201d (lower case). I saw different formatting of this on the same page and throughout the book. In comparison, \"snow elf\" always appears in lower case. Several chapters begin with a typo, where two sentences run together without a period (in kindle version). ...more Let's be honest. Briggs has introduced the bad guy first thing in every book. Attempts at red-herring and yada don't work. You know who it is. It's been consistent for 3 books. So what does she do? She not only has them talking about Blackwood before he shows up, but then after he shows up they make fun of Mercy for being able to attract the only vampire in the whole area. Then the true mystery and intrigue happens. Because Blackwood is one creepy-creepy-creepy goose bumps inducing vampire. On t Let's be honest. Briggs has introduced the bad guy first thing in every book. Attempts at red-herring and yada don't work. You know who it is. It's been consistent for 3 books. So what does she do? She not only has them talking about Blackwood before he shows up, but then after he shows up they make fun of Mercy for being able to attract the only vampire in the whole area. Then the true mystery and intrigue happens. Because Blackwood is one creepy-creepy-creepy goose bumps inducing vampire. On top of that Marsilia KNOWS and it's time to pay the evil vampire Mistress. Boom! Two amazing vampire villains in one book. Both of them have ulterior motives and it is one messy and wild-scary ride. Bone Crossed not only does the villains and mystery plots right, but it picks right up from that cruel cliffhanger. Come on. Any first time reader will admit to being scared witless to how the series would continue after that. There was a chance that Brigg's totally neglected Mercy's character development, after she took IT there. Or Adam was going to go from amazing to despicable. All depending on how this played out. Well it was perfect. Handled well and this is very much a book of growth. Because it's Mercy it's not beaten into readers heads with a tire iron (yeah, poor taste I know) and over dramatized. Instead Mercy is growing and healing. Her mother comes to town, and it's such a treat. Bran stops in. And basically Mercy realizes that she's not alone. Adam is there to help her heal and it does wonders for both of them. Since Mercy and Adam had a history before Moon Called started up that, while I loved them as a couple, there were some important things missing from their relationship. Iron Kissed started to slyly feel in the blanks. Bone Crossed filled in the rest. Mercy is healing herself, but Adam helps and plays a role in it. It's beautiful and I appreciated it. Now another time for honesty. Stephan. My poor beloved Stephan. Fans have preached to me since I've first mentioned it, but I stand by my words: Stephan has never truly been fully developed. It's clear that he is a third (cough fourth) wheel in the romance. It's always been Sam or Adam. And we all knew who would win out of those two. So it's nice that he gets some page time here. (Come on he was there a little bit in Moon Called, Blood Bound was surprisingly short on page time, and Iron Kissed was empty of Stephan!) What's more is that Marsilia has Stephan on her shit list. Not only does this show how freaking evil Marsilia is\u2014she's ALWAYS working some kind of angle\u2014it shows how amazing Stephan is. Don't get me wrong Stephan is a monster and Mercy has been grumbling about it. However, I think all of the paranormal beings are monsters. Even Adam and Sam. It's the way the Mercy Thompson world is. What makes them slightly less monstrous is how much of humanity they want to rub off on them, or that they respect. Bone Crossed is definitely the strongest book yet in the series, one where Briggs hits every single spot. Which is saying something from such an amazing series. The politics are fabulous as Mercy becomes embroiled in them. Honestly I love seeing how the vampire, werewolf, and fae stuff ticks. Especially when they all start butting heads. Because war doesn't just mean death among the paranormal beings, if the humans find out it won't be pretty for the paranormals as they try to come out and join society. There's a lot at stake. With Marsilia's devious threats, Blackwood's chilling connections to Mercy, and the underlying mysteries Bone Crossed is sure to be a fan favorite. Sometimes the development and certain decisions feel rushed, but only Briggs could make it seem perfect to the story. Bone Crossed is the best entry yet and I love how Mercy's love life is playing into it. It's not over the top and she figures things out before jumping into a relationship. No angsty love triangles here. Build up people. Freaking build up. Sexual Content: Sex scene, sexual humor, rape is mentioned. Still a pretty clean read. 5/5- Fabulous, a beautiful obsession! Originally reviewed at Book Whispers . ...more Fourth book in the urban fantasy with the werecoyote car mechanic. Why did I read this? The third book did such a terrible job with the aftermath of rape (OMG I have been raped and am therefore unworthy of my boyfriend's love!), and I thought I was done. This book walks back the very worst of the last book, then wanders along through your standard issue urban fantasy plot, with extra werewolf mating. It would be unexceptionable, if only Briggs didn't keep trying to have, you know, issues . Mercy's Fourth book in the urban fantasy with the werecoyote car mechanic. Why did I read this? The third book did such a terrible job with the aftermath of rape (OMG I have been raped and am therefore unworthy of my boyfriend's love!), and I thought I was done. This book walks back the very worst of the last book, then wanders along through your standard issue urban fantasy plot, with extra werewolf mating. It would be unexceptionable, if only Briggs didn't keep trying to have, you know, issues . Mercy's PTSD appears to consist entirely of panic attacks neatly timed to further the plot or so her boyfriend can comfort her. No cycling mood, change in sleep patterns, fixation on details of the assault, or you know any other actual realistic symptoms . Briggs could have done better by spending three minutes with the DSM-IV. I am done patting authors on the back for remembering to include the effects of trauma at all -- now try doing it better . Oh, and did I mention there's a deaf boy in this book? He's very brave , you know, and also apparently an Olympic champion lip reader, because the kid is better at it than any deaf person that I've ever met (which is a lot, by the way). The real problem with this series is that on the surface it's fine. There's nothing egregiously wrong with this book like there was the last one, and in fact a few aspects of the kid's disability are handled very nicely in that there's no actual fuss about it. But the shallowness with which she approaches things I care about a great deal is actually more infuriating than complete wrongheadedness can be. Dude. Stop playing issue bingo and go back to writing a fun and pleasant little urban fantasy series. ...more Bone Crossed is not on my top favorites list in this series. Actually, it is probably my least favorite. Mercy\u2019s mother pays an unexpected visit due to the rape and murder from the previous book. Ben, as weird and revealing as his character proved in the last book .. had a warm reaction to her presence. But his attention was all for my mother. (Ben\u2019s) \u201cShe\u2019s married,\u201d I warned him. \u201cAnd if you call her a rude name, she\u2019ll shoot you with her pretty pink gun and I\u2019ll spit on your grave.\u201d Adam said, \u201cB Bone Crossed is not on my top favorites list in this series. Actually, it is probably my least favorite. Mercy\u2019s mother pays an unexpected visit due to the rape and murder from the previous book. Ben, as weird and revealing as his character proved in the last book .. had a warm reaction to her presence. But his attention was all for my mother. (Ben\u2019s) \u201cShe\u2019s married,\u201d I warned him. \u201cAnd if you call her a rude name, she\u2019ll shoot you with her pretty pink gun and I\u2019ll spit on your grave.\u201d Adam said, \u201cBen. Meet Mercy\u2019s mother, Margi.\u201d That was the only highlight from this book. I found it quite uninteresting. Mercy struggles with the trauma of being raped. Adam is patient. Understanding the fragile situation, he helps Mercy through her panic attacks. An old friend of Mercy\u2019s, Amber, invites Mercy to visit her home. A ghost is haunting her son and her arrogant and stubborn husband believes that she and her son, Chad is making it up. That\u2019s basically the jest of the book. There are some sweet moments. I could go into them without spoiling anything .. but they are unworthy of typing I dislike giving negative reviews, especially those pertaining to my favorite authors. Nonetheless .. Bleh. I recommend this book only to mature adults who are reading this series. It would be confusing and boring to others. Mild violence and implied sexual content without description. ~Happy reading! ...more Hot diggity dog, that was good! I couldn't put this one down, especially the last half. I know we've been all 'Adam or Sam', 'Sam or Adam', but how's this for a response, \"Gimme Bran!\" I mean, the more I read these books, including A&O the more awesome I think the Marrok is! YUM. And you know who else I adore? Stefan!! I keep waiting for the shoe to drop and for him to betray Mercy but he never does. He just gets better more and more interesting! (See all the exclamation points! Me happy read Hot diggity dog, that was good! I couldn't put this one down, especially the last half. I know we've been all 'Adam or Sam', 'Sam or Adam', but how's this for a response, \"Gimme Bran!\" I mean, the more I read these books, including A&O the more awesome I think the Marrok is! YUM. And you know who else I adore? Stefan!! I keep waiting for the shoe to drop and for him to betray Mercy but he never does. He just gets better more and more interesting! (See all the exclamation points! Me happy reader!) I also think that Mercy and Adam's relationship finally hit it's stride in this one. There were some sweet, touching, even steamy scenes in this installment. I slid out of bed and realized I was stark naked. Which was only to be expected. But there was no sign of underwear on the floor or in the bedding. I was head and shoulders under the bed when Adam said, from the doorway, \"I spy with my little eye something that begins with the letter A.\" \"I'll spy your little eye and squish it,\" I threatened, but, since the bed hid me, there was a grin on my face. My last little bit of nervousness comes from what's going to happen to poor Sam. I hope that he's got all his hopes and dreams coming to fruition soon, with the right mate. So good that I wish I could dive right into book 5. Alas, I have to break for another Anna Charles book, because I'm so rigid with series reading. Woe is me. ...more Well, I wasn't as impressed with this addition to the Mercy Thompson series (which I really, really like). For some reason, it was more words-on-a-page to me than an experience. Less drawn into the story, less tension/action overall to the story, less details when you wanted details. This very much seemed like a transition/plotwrap book instead of a contribution to the overall story arc. I guess after the last book actually made me cry, I was expecting this book to be similarly emotionally evoca Well, I wasn't as impressed with this addition to the Mercy Thompson series (which I really, really like). For some reason, it was more words-on-a-page to me than an experience. Less drawn into the story, less tension/action overall to the story, less details when you wanted details. This very much seemed like a transition/plotwrap book instead of a contribution to the overall story arc. I guess after the last book actually made me cry, I was expecting this book to be similarly emotionally evocative and was disappointed. Not that it was a *bad* story, just not as high a quality as the other books. **I recently re-read this and was less disappointed then I was initially, but it is definitely less tight than I have come to expect from this author** ...more Rating: 4.5 Stars It always takes me awhile to really get into the groove of a series. In fact, I'm not much of a series reader to begin with. My shelves are either stocked with stand-alones or, if there are any series on my shelves, most of them are incomplete since I only buy the installments I've loved. Even worse, though, series usually drop steam after hitting a climax and from there on out, it's a downward spiral. As such, I was ever-so-slightly apprehensive about opening the cover of Bone Rating: 4.5 Stars It always takes me awhile to really get into the groove of a series. In fact, I'm not much of a series reader to begin with. My shelves are either stocked with stand-alones or, if there are any series on my shelves, most of them are incomplete since I only buy the installments I've loved. Even worse, though, series usually drop steam after hitting a climax and from there on out, it's a downward spiral. As such, I was ever-so-slightly apprehensive about opening the cover of Bone Crossed, despite lunging for it the moment I finished the cliffhanger ending of Iron Kissed. Quite thankfully, though, this series only seems to be getting better or maintaining its excellency and as a follow-up to what is sure to be a favorite of the year, Bone Crossed is stunning. Bone Crossed continues to amp up the stakes in terms of plot, throwing in even more mysteries, secrets, and danger. Yet, what it mostly focuses is on are the characters themselves. Not only is the tenuous friendship between Stefan and Mercy truly tested, but Mercy herself is forced to face her inner fears and overcome them, displaying an admirable amount of inner strength. More than even her, though, Adam completely won me over. We see Adam for the dominant Alpha male that he is, but the sweet side of him is just as prevalent as the protective. With every passing moment that Adam and Mercy spent together, simply understanding one another inside and out, talking with one another, and enjoying each other's company, I fell harder and harder for their romance. It is one where they both share their strength and power, trusting one another completely. Nevertheless, I will admit that after the incidents in Iron Kissed, I was a little surprised at the speed at which romantic situations unfolded in this installment. Everyone deals with situations differently, and I think Mercy's reactions were quite realistic, actually, but one can never fully be sure. I have no complaints about the pace of her growth, but it did stick out a little to me, although I have no actual qualms with it. Like Iron Kissed, this sequel has just the right blend of everything - depth, romance, mystery, danger, and, of course, the slow unraveling of new information. It makes you wonder how much more Briggs has up her sleeve, especially with the mind-blowing plot twists she churned out in this book. I, for one, cannot wait to see where Briggs takes Mercy and Adam next. You can read this review\" and more on my blog, Ivy Book Bindings. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads This installment picks up right where the last one left off and by right I\u2019m talking like one split second later. Well, let\u2019s just say that things don\u2019t go quite as I had envisioned them. In Bone Crossed Mercy is still recovering from what went down in Iron Kissed so she\u2019s not her usual spunky self and unfortunately for her, things aren\u2019t really looking all that up either. In book 4 Briggs finally sheds a bit of light on one very important unanswered question and seriousl Reviewed by: Rabid Reads This installment picks up right where the last one left off and by right I\u2019m talking like one split second later. Well, let\u2019s just say that things don\u2019t go quite as I had envisioned them. In Bone Crossed Mercy is still recovering from what went down in Iron Kissed so she\u2019s not her usual spunky self and unfortunately for her, things aren\u2019t really looking all that up either. In book 4 Briggs finally sheds a bit of light on one very important unanswered question and seriously, Adam Hauptman is just SO freaking awesome in this installment! Bone Crossed has a much darker tone than its predecessors and it also felt like a stepping stone to the next phase of this series. Mercy\u2019s finally solved her relationship dilemma but instead of running into her beloved\u2019s arms she\u2019s trying not to scream every time someone touches her. I felt so horrible for Thompson in this installment; she\u2019s hurting bad and unfortunately for her, the only cure is time. In other news, the reason why vamps are so afraid of walkers is finally becoming clearer and Thompson takes her newfound powers for a test drive. I\u2019ve been anxiously waiting for this aspect of the story line to develop and I can\u2019t wait to see how much more butt Mercy is going to kick in Silver Borne! I really liked Chad, Amber\u2019s son. He\u2019s a brave kid who\u2019s similar to Thompson in a lot of ways and I loved their interactions. The child challenged her at every turn and I liked that Mercy treated him as an adult and also worked at earning his trust. Stefan lost a few points with me in this book; I found his behavior to be a little suspect and now I\u2019m kind of glad that he was never a real contender for Mercy\u2019s affections. Better the devil you know\u2026 unless they are a vampire! The romance between Adam and Thomson is tender and sweet which was not at all what I expected from an alpha werewolf! Hauptman is so incredibly patient and understanding of Mercy\u2019s needs; it just made me love him even more! I\u2019ve enjoyed watching their relationship grow and change over the past four books and hope that they\u2019ll get a bit of a break in the next novel because they need time to reconnect. And, ya know, I also need some Adam sexy time! After finishing Bone Crossed my only thought is: thank goodness book 5 is already waiting for me on my shelves! ...more This book for me wasn't as good as the rest. Don't get me wrong, I still enjoyed the ride but there was one thing that annoyed me and I couldn't get over it enough to make me love this one. I don't know if I can explain what annoyed me without spoiling it completely but I will try. (view spoiler) [I didn't like at all the whole \"vampire bites\", \"vampire control\", \"vampire politics\" thing. I know what you think, so what did I like since the book was based on them mostly? I liked the action, the susp This book for me wasn't as good as the rest. Don't get me wrong, I still enjoyed the ride but there was one thing that annoyed me and I couldn't get over it enough to make me love this one. I don't know if I can explain what annoyed me without spoiling it completely but I will try. (view spoiler) [I didn't like at all the whole \"vampire bites\", \"vampire control\", \"vampire politics\" thing. I know what you think, so what did I like since the book was based on them mostly? I liked the action, the suspense, the mystery and of course the Adam-Mercy romance. The vampire thing I think annoyed me mostly because I couldn't stop thinking about the Anita Blake series and how I was afraid it will take a similar course. Not making much sense huh?:P (hide spoiler) ] Generally the book was great once again and if I knew the ending I would have been able to enjoy it more. I think I won't be sleeping again tonight since I can't keep myself from beginning the next one and it's already way past bed time!;) [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I know I said this about Iron Kissed , but I think this might be my favourite in the series! It had the same kind of mystery plot as the other books, but with the added extra of Adam and Mercy trying making the first forage into their relationship. I can't really say anything different about Bone Crossed that I have about the other books in the series. Mercy is now a firmly one of my favourite heroines, the plot was interesting and kept me guessing and Adam was wicked hot. For me this series gets I know I said this about Iron Kissed , but I think this might be my favourite in the series! It had the same kind of mystery plot as the other books, but with the added extra of Adam and Mercy trying making the first forage into their relationship. I can't really say anything different about Bone Crossed that I have about the other books in the series. Mercy is now a firmly one of my favourite heroines, the plot was interesting and kept me guessing and Adam was wicked hot. For me this series gets better and better as you learn more and more about paranormal world the Mercy seems to keep getting mixed up in. I do seem to be developing another crush as well, does anyone else have the hots for Bran? ...more", "Title": "Bone Crossed"},
