{"Comments": "This was a very difficult,<---M> though very worthwhile</---M>, book to read. It took me many, many, months to get through because the subject is so intense and often extremely disturbing. That said, I am grateful for what Nazer has shared in this work.<---F> It was truly an eye opener</---F>. There remains much injustice in the world and books like this can help us to reveal those injustices so that we can take action to end them. An amazing book. Everyone should read this book! We live in a country of great freedom that we take for granted. My heart goes out to Mende. Something about the dignity and courage of Mende Nazar as she recounts her appalling story grabs hold of your heart, allowing you to read on when it is almost unbearable. Mende is calm and unflinching as she simply recounts the events that shattered her world,a remote Nubian village in the Sudan. She gives a vivid description of her community and her life as an adored and coddled child of a loving family. This comes to an abrubt and violent end when the village is attacked and burned by Arab rai Something about the dignity and courage of Mende Nazar as she recounts her appalling story grabs hold of your heart, allowing you to read on when it is almost unbearable. Mende is calm and unflinching as she simply recounts the events that shattered her world,a remote Nubian village in the Sudan. She gives a vivid description of her community and her life as an adored and coddled child of a loving family. This comes to an abrubt and violent end when the village is attacked and burned by Arab raiders. This is not fiction. 31 children were kidnapped and enslaved. In the 90's. And this is still going on. The values and life lessons Mende learned in her village served her well. Although she was a spoilt child, used to getting her way, she adapted quickly and never lost her essential sweetness, never completely caved in to despair. Her resourcefulness and compassion are evident especially towards the end of her enslavement, when she postpones her break for freedom so as not to compromise anyone connected with her who might suffer repurcussions. I hope she will do an update, I want to hold on to her, give her a great big hug, know that shes doing good. ...more Slave is the true story of <---A>Mende Nazer</---A>, a Sudanese woman whose childhood ended when she was captured and enslaved around age 12. One thing that made Mende\u2019s story particularly stand out to me is that we are about the same age. Her slavery did not take place in the huts and villages of Sudan, but in the relatively modern city of Khartoum, where her well-to-do captors had most of the modern conveniences that we do (<---B>electricity, washer/dryer, stove/oven, etc</---B>). In this book, Mende recounts the story Slave is the true story of Mende Nazer, a Sudanese woman whose childhood ended when she was captured and enslaved around age 12. One thing that made Mende\u2019s story particularly stand out to me is that we are about the same age. Her slavery did not take place in the huts and villages of Sudan, but in the relatively modern city of Khartoum, where her well-to-do captors had most of the modern conveniences that we do (electricity, washer/dryer, stove/oven, etc). In this book, Mende recounts the story through her own eyes with the help of author Damien Lewis. Because of the oral-tradition culture in which Mende grew up, she was able to remember and retell many vivid details and facts of the life she knew during her childhood and the life she later came to know as a slave in a bustling modern city. The first portion of the book recounts Mende\u2019s childhood growing up in the Nuba mountains, a life full of familial love and enjoyment of life, with a few accounts that convey disdain for some of the difficult ways and traditions of that life (e.g., female genital mutilation/circumcision). I was touched by the recounting of her parent\u2019s love and gentleness with her, loving her always, and sometimes with firmness, but without physical force\u2014something that became routine in her days of enslavement. The next portion describes her capture, abuse, and rape, and then her being sold as a slave to a respected family in Sudan\u2019s capital. There she worked for seven years, suffering physical, verbal, and emotional abuse before being sold to her \u201cmaster\u2019s\u201d relatives, who ironically worked for the Sudanese embassy in London. London is where Mende escaped to freedom, but even there such an escape was an unlikely possibility. Sadly, most stories that start like Mende\u2019s do not end as Mende\u2019s did, and few of the victims of human trafficking ever have a voice of their own. Yet, Mende\u2019s voice is one that is strong and powerful\u2014a voice for those who cannot speak out about their suffering and enslavement. ...more I had trouble putting this book down when at first I started. It is the incredibly gruesome story of Mende, who's abducted by raiders as a 12 year old and sold into slavery to a cruel, inhuman woman, who does her level best to break the spirit of Mende. However, there's always enough human kindness around for Mende not to lose her sense of her own humanity completely, and in the end she escapes with the help of strangers. Every page of the book is alive with Mende's simple and vibrant way of tell I had trouble putting this book down when at first I started. It is the incredibly gruesome story of Mende, who's abducted by raiders as a 12 year old and sold into slavery to a cruel, inhuman woman, who does her level best to break the spirit of Mende. However, there's always enough human kindness around for Mende not to lose her sense of her own humanity completely, and in the end she escapes with the help of strangers. Every page of the book is alive with Mende's simple and vibrant way of telling her horrible story, and it makes it more than just worth reading. ...more Kirja, joka kaikkien pit\u00e4isi lukea pit\u00e4\u00e4kseen silm\u00e4ns\u00e4 auki t\u00e4ss\u00e4 maailmassa. What a book - I cried and my heart broke. The language of the book is easy and simplistic. The story is told, with no literary embellishments and in the author's own voice - she is not a writer and so there is a matter of fact style (it was told to Damien Lewis, a journalist who helped Mende during her escape and who penned the book, but I'm glad he kept it simple). The book has 2 halves. The first is about Mende's life growing up in a small village in the Nuba mountains of Sudan; and then life What a book - I cried and my heart broke. The language of the book is easy and simplistic. The story is told, with no literary embellishments and in the author's own voice - she is not a writer and so there is a matter of fact style (it was told to Damien Lewis, a journalist who helped Mende during her escape and who penned the book, but I'm glad he kept it simple). The book has 2 halves. The first is about Mende's life growing up in a small village in the Nuba mountains of Sudan; and then life after Arab raiders killed many of the people in her village, and captured her and other kids to be used as slaves for wealthy families. Her life afterwards was one of abuse. No rights, no voice, doomed to call her \"owners\" Master for the rest of her life. After 7 years, Mende manages to sneak away (year: 2000) while living in London with her new captors, with the help of someone she had only met ONCE. As difficult as this book is to read, and makes me literally HATE people who think it's okay to do this, it does show that there are people out there who will go out of their way to help others they don't know - and with no hesitation - just because it's the right thing to do. ...more Mende's story is an amazing story that will not only captivate your mind, but also clench your heart. As a avid reader of non fiction books, this is the type of book that keeps my interest at peak! This story was told exceptionally well, with the help of, Damien, it allows the reader to develop a vivid mental picture of Mendes experience. I could almost taste and smell her surroundings. It touches on some unbelievable rituals and horrendous violations that continue till this day. Mende still mai Mende's story is an amazing story that will not only captivate your mind, but also clench your heart. As a avid reader of non fiction books, this is the type of book that keeps my interest at peak! This story was told exceptionally well, with the help of, Damien, it allows the reader to develop a vivid mental picture of Mendes experience. I could almost taste and smell her surroundings. It touches on some unbelievable rituals and horrendous violations that continue till this day. Mende still maintains dignity and is vague when necessary. Please bear in mind that this is a very sad story so grab a Kleenex. I almost cried when she left to throw out the rubbish, and just ran for her dear life, and I couldn't stop laughing when she got on the plane and the flight attendant was informing her on safety precautions. Overall, this book was beautifully written. I will never forget this story. This book has been made into a movie titled \"I am Slave\". You can find the trailer on YouTube. ...more This is an amazing autobiographical book about a girl ripped from her family at the tender age of 12 and sold into modern day slavery. It is mind boggling, gut wrenching and heart breaking. Yet, it is impossible to put down! You can't help but love this girl and feel hopeless every step of the way. My heart ached during each episode of abuse and humiliation she encountered throughout her years as a slave. And I found myself becoming very frustrated and angry with her abusers, to the point of que This is an amazing autobiographical book about a girl ripped from her family at the tender age of 12 and sold into modern day slavery. It is mind boggling, gut wrenching and heart breaking. Yet, it is impossible to put down! You can't help but love this girl and feel hopeless every step of the way. My heart ached during each episode of abuse and humiliation she encountered throughout her years as a slave. And I found myself becoming very frustrated and angry with her abusers, to the point of questioning their humanity. But I loved the way she relied on her faith and the beautiful memories of her family to get her through those horrible days/years. This is definitely a must read for everyone! A truly empowering story about an unbelievably brave survivor. ...more When I read other reviews of this book I knew I had to read it. Living in America all my life I couldn't imagine that there is still slavery going on in the world, just that it happened many generations ago (that is something that we were taught in school). How could this still be going on?? I LOVED this book, it goes threw Mende's life from the beginning to current....how she was abducted and sold into slavery and how she finally broke free from all the abuse and even how it still affects her When I read other reviews of this book I knew I had to read it. Living in America all my life I couldn't imagine that there is still slavery going on in the world, just that it happened many generations ago (that is something that we were taught in school). How could this still be going on?? I LOVED this book, it goes threw Mende's life from the beginning to current....how she was abducted and sold into slavery and how she finally broke free from all the abuse and even how it still affects her everyday living. Could you imagine having to learn how to be a 'civil' human from scratch, how much work it in-tales to 'blend' in with the rest of the population? Even after finishing this book it makes you wonder and think about what this wonderfully strong lady endured and is still going threw just to survive. ...more Wow! Finally a memoir that lived up to its title! Powerful, shocking, heartbreaking... amazing. This story of a young Sudanese girl ripped from her family and sold into slavery sounds like a story from the 1800's but shockingly this happened in 1993! The story of Mende Nazer is a modern day horror story; not one of an era we had thought (and hoped) was gone for good. This memoir is well written and fascinating. The beginning of the book does a great job of setting the scene and showing us Mende' Wow! Finally a memoir that lived up to its title! Powerful, shocking, heartbreaking... amazing. This story of a young Sudanese girl ripped from her family and sold into slavery sounds like a story from the 1800's but shockingly this happened in 1993! The story of Mende Nazer is a modern day horror story; not one of an era we had thought (and hoped) was gone for good. This memoir is well written and fascinating. The beginning of the book does a great job of setting the scene and showing us Mende's life before the raid and kidnapping. Getting a peek into the life of the Nuba was almost as fascinating as reading how she survived seven years as a slave. Great book and one I would highly recommend! ...more U\u017easno sam tu\u017ena i istovremeno ljuta kad \u010ditam knjige ovoga tipa. Ne mogu vjerovati, \u010dak ni nakon svega \u0161to sam \u010dula, vidjela i pro\u010ditala da takvi ljudi postoje i da \u0107e na \u017ealost uvijek postojati. Kako mo\u017ee\u0161 nekoga smatrati gorim od sebe samo zbog njegove boje ko\u017ee i kulturne razli\u010ditosti? Kako mo\u017ee\u0161 u\u017eivati u silovanju malih djevoj\u010dica? Ova je djevojka u svojih desetak godina ropstva pro\u017eivjela pakao, ako ne i puno gore od toga. Potresna pri\u010da koja ne ostavlja ravnodu\u0161nim. Ovu bi knjigu svi treb U\u017easno sam tu\u017ena i istovremeno ljuta kad \u010ditam knjige ovoga tipa. Ne mogu vjerovati, \u010dak ni nakon svega \u0161to sam \u010dula, vidjela i pro\u010ditala da takvi ljudi postoje i da \u0107e na \u017ealost uvijek postojati. Kako mo\u017ee\u0161 nekoga smatrati gorim od sebe samo zbog njegove boje ko\u017ee i kulturne razli\u010ditosti? Kako mo\u017ee\u0161 u\u017eivati u silovanju malih djevoj\u010dica? Ova je djevojka u svojih desetak godina ropstva pro\u017eivjela pakao, ako ne i puno gore od toga. Potresna pri\u010da koja ne ostavlja ravnodu\u0161nim. Ovu bi knjigu svi trebali pro\u010ditati. ...more This was a very compelling and thought-provoking story. This book is a true testament to what happens to thousands of girls in third world countries. A story of modern day slavery. 2004- Most of us associate slavery with the days of the American Civil War. Yet, in many parts of the world today, slavery isn't dead. In this novel, we meet Mende, a young Sudanese tribal girl growing up happily with her family. The first third of the book explores Mende's childhood among her tribe, the Karko of the Nuba Mountains. Then one night, everything changes. Her village is attacked by Arab raiders. Huts are torched, men killed, women raped and children rounded up to be sold off later a 2004- Most of us associate slavery with the days of the American Civil War. Yet, in many parts of the world today, slavery isn't dead. In this novel, we meet Mende, a young Sudanese tribal girl growing up happily with her family. The first third of the book explores Mende's childhood among her tribe, the Karko of the Nuba Mountains. Then one night, everything changes. Her village is attacked by Arab raiders. Huts are torched, men killed, women raped and children rounded up to be sold off later as slaves. Mende is among them. We see how Mende struggles to survive as a slave girl and horrors she was forced to go through. Eventually, Mende travels to London as a slave, where it is that she is finally able to make a break for freedom. While Mende's first hand account is great, describing a young woman's life as she matures from a child to an adult under horrible circumstances, something I disliked about this book was that towards the end, Damien Lewis seemed to take over the writing and this made it seem less personal. Also, because of Mende's age at certain points of the novel, I feel like some spots were not as detailed as later chapters. These two minor gripes shouldn't deter you from reading an unbelievable story of a resilient young woman. ...more Slave is the true story of a young Sudanese girl kidnapped at an early age and take into slavery. I couldn't put the book down. Her simple life as a child, the love and support she had from her family, especially her father was very heartwarming and I learned a lot about the rural life in the Sudan - its simplicity, its hardships (walking miles for water), its family and community commitment etc. Mende's slavery and captivity as an unpaid servant was very shocking to me. I knew of slavery in the Slave is the true story of a young Sudanese girl kidnapped at an early age and take into slavery. I couldn't put the book down. Her simple life as a child, the love and support she had from her family, especially her father was very heartwarming and I learned a lot about the rural life in the Sudan - its simplicity, its hardships (walking miles for water), its family and community commitment etc. Mende's slavery and captivity as an unpaid servant was very shocking to me. I knew of slavery in the Sudan, but wasn't aware of how it was accomplished or who was buying the slaves and how far they were dispersed. Mende endured a lot but showed a lot of spunk and was truly a survivor. She eventually escaped and fled to England where she got herself educated and eventually wrote this book and told her story with the assistance of Damien Lewis. We are very fortunate to be able read such a first hand account of slavery and have our eyes opened. Truly inspirational - what Mende survived and accomplished. Truly horrific - how humans can be so cruel to other humans and so inhumane. ...more Mende's story - from a peaceful childhood surrounded by family and friends, to being torn away and forced to live the life of a slave, someone who barely deserves a name (according to her \"master\"), it's all so hard to believe that this is what is happening in these modern times! But oh, \"slave\" doesn't begin to describe her. She is questly dignified, she has a rich history and fond memories and I am so very glad she was brave enough to find freedom and have her story told. One can only hope for Mende's story - from a peaceful childhood surrounded by family and friends, to being torn away and forced to live the life of a slave, someone who barely deserves a name (according to her \"master\"), it's all so hard to believe that this is what is happening in these modern times! But oh, \"slave\" doesn't begin to describe her. She is questly dignified, she has a rich history and fond memories and I am so very glad she was brave enough to find freedom and have her story told. One can only hope for freedom for all people found in this terrible situation. As Mende so often says in her book that it's just not right for a human to OWN another human, like an animal. It's just not right. ...more First, I feel like a real shit for only giving this 3.5 stars. In my defense, it's because there wasn't ENOUGH book for me. Mende tells of at least 7+ years kept as a slave in about 150 pages. I didn't necessarily need graphic details, but I did want to get to know her more, see her strength, know how she developed her survival instincts, etc. Unfortunately the most horrific scene contained in this novel (other than the village raid and kidnapping) is the mutilation she endured during her female First, I feel like a real shit for only giving this 3.5 stars. In my defense, it's because there wasn't ENOUGH book for me. Mende tells of at least 7+ years kept as a slave in about 150 pages. I didn't necessarily need graphic details, but I did want to get to know her more, see her strength, know how she developed her survival instincts, etc. Unfortunately the most horrific scene contained in this novel (other than the village raid and kidnapping) is the mutilation she endured during her female circumcision. ...more this book really moved me. it is the account of a woman from Sudan who was sold into slavery at the age of 12. she remained a slave until she escaped in london when she was in her twenties. what made this book so powerful is that she describes not only the pain of being a slave, but also her life with her family prior to the attack on her village where she is stolen. there is a graphic account of genital circumcision that made me cringe. i can't imagine going through such a thing. i recommend th this book really moved me. it is the account of a woman from Sudan who was sold into slavery at the age of 12. she remained a slave until she escaped in london when she was in her twenties. what made this book so powerful is that she describes not only the pain of being a slave, but also her life with her family prior to the attack on her village where she is stolen. there is a graphic account of genital circumcision that made me cringe. i can't imagine going through such a thing. i recommend this book so that eyes will be opened to the fact that modern day slavery does still exist. ...more This book was very painful to read at times. I literally had to put it down just to process what I was reading. At times, I was very angry and wanted to jump in the book and strangle the slave holders. The cruelty of one human to another never seems to amaze me. Although this book was very emotional for me to read, I am inspired by the strength and perseverance of the main character, Mende Nazer. My life has been a cake walk compared to all she endured. I highly recommend this book. After one of my friends moved to South Sudan I came across this book and was interested to learn more about the history of that region. This book is well written but not easy to read. Not easy because of the honesty and the pain which Mende recounts of her story. But most definitely wirth the read! I often find myself drawn to women's issues books. Mostly about women fighting for their rights or overcoming tragedy. When I read the premise of Slave, I was so baffled. How could this happen? How could, in this time, someone be kidnapped and sold as a slave? Mende's story is heartbreaking and infuriating. As I read on, I could hear her voice and my heart just reached out to her. AS THE AUTHOR MUSES AND THINKS OVER THE POSSIBILITY OF KILLING HERSELF AFTER ALL SHE'D BEEN THROUGH -- I STARTED TO HOPE SHE WOULD DO IT. FUCK THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT. AND NOW I THINK I HATE ARABS & GERMANS TOO. VERY TOUGH BOOK TO READ. TERRIBLE. HORRID. I MEAN WTF SERIOUSLY? WTF. An amazing story about an amazing woman. This book will boggle your mind. It really makes you appreciate the freedoms we have, and so often take for granted. I think this should be a MUST read for EVERYONE! A really horrible story. I felt really angry when I saw a lot of woman and children were treating like animals. They deserved to live in peace and find justice. This book was really good. I can't believe this is true. I finished this book in less than 24 hours, if that tells you anything. A quite compelling story that brings to light the Arabic slave trade still common today. 14 of 18 people found the following review helpful: 3.0 out of 5 stars Slavery Still Exists!!, January 29, 2004 In <+++>Slave: My True Story</+++>, Mende Nazer's spirit echoes that of Sojourner Truth's during her journey from slave to freedom fighter. The singular difference in their heroic efforts is the span of more than a century. One would like to believe that humanity would choose to eradicate slavery everywhere, but Nazer is living proof that the horrific institution is thriving in the new millennium. 14 of 18 people found the following review helpful: 3.0 out of 5 stars Slavery Still Exists!!, January 29, 2004 In <+++>Slave: My True Story</+++>, Mende Nazer's spirit echoes that of Sojourner Truth's during her journey from slave to freedom fighter. The singular difference in their heroic efforts is the span of more than a century. One would like to believe that humanity would choose to eradicate slavery everywhere, but Nazer is living proof that the horrific institution is thriving in the new millennium. Nazer, only in her mid-twenties, has spent more than half her life enslaved - held captive against her will by her own countrymen. Her escape to freedom was largely a stroke of luck but she took it as an omen to tell the world about the widespread slave trade in modern day Sudan. Her book is an international bestseller in Europe and she hopes its launch in the US will bring about awareness and more supporters. Nazer's autobiography is told with a child-like voice that conveys innocence and honesty. Told chronologically, it begins with a happy, carefree childhood with her family in remote Sudan. She shares tribal traditions, wonderful family memories, and her perspective of the Arab and British influence on her people. She also covers the painful aspects that address female circumcision, poor health care provisions, and infant mortality. Her childhood is interrupted around 12 years of age (as the Nuba tribe does not record birth dates) when she was abducted and raped in a violent Arab raid on her village and sold into domestic slavery in Khartoum. There she was physically, mentally, and emotionally abused continuously for eight years serving as housemaid, car detailer, laundress, cook, seamstress, and 24-hour nursemaid; never receiving a vacation or any other compensation. Sadly the same tactics used during the ancient slave trade are still employed today. Equally effective are the perpetual impoverishment and loss of any familiarity. Although several opportunities for escape were presented over the years, Mende became too brainwashed and fearful to take advantage. Mende eventually came of age, started to attract the attention of adult male visitors to the household, then was \"traded\" to a family in London. She eventually escaped and was granted amnesty within the UK with aide from fellow Sudanese and British supporters. One of those supporters, Damien Lewis, is the co-author of the novel. Both he and Mende dedicate their time and resources supporting human rights organizations and government assemblies. She has since learned that her parents survived the raid and are alive near her village and communicates with them periodically. Unfortunately with her sensationalized trial, publicized battle for political asylum in the United Kingdom and the release of the novel, came noteriety that prohibits her from returning to the Sudan. Thus Mende's ultimate plea for the abolition of slavery everywhere is coupled by a simple desire to see her family again. This is a book is a testimony to a young woman's outstanding courage and unconquerable spirit. ...more Este n\u00e3o \u00e9, seguramente, um livro de leitura f\u00e1cil. \u00c9 um livro que \u00e9 pesado, forte e um grande murro no est\u00f4mago. Mas, ao mesmo tempo, \u00e9 terno e apaixonante. Aos 12 anos (pensa-se que teria 12 anos, uma vez que os Nuba n\u00e3o festejam os anivers\u00e1rios nem tem registo dos nascimentos), Mende \u00e9 capturada na sua aldeia por um grupo de mujahiddin. \u00c9 violada pelo seu captor e depois entregue a um comerciante de escravos que a vende a uma fam\u00edlia sudanesa que a maltrata desde o primeiro dia. Mende, aos pou Este n\u00e3o \u00e9, seguramente, um livro de leitura f\u00e1cil. \u00c9 um livro que \u00e9 pesado, forte e um grande murro no est\u00f4mago. Mas, ao mesmo tempo, \u00e9 terno e apaixonante. Aos 12 anos (pensa-se que teria 12 anos, uma vez que os Nuba n\u00e3o festejam os anivers\u00e1rios nem tem registo dos nascimentos), Mende \u00e9 capturada na sua aldeia por um grupo de mujahiddin. \u00c9 violada pelo seu captor e depois entregue a um comerciante de escravos que a vende a uma fam\u00edlia sudanesa que a maltrata desde o primeiro dia. Mende, aos poucos, vai percebendo que deixou de ser livre e passou a ser uma coisa. Mais um objecto que aquela fam\u00edlia tem em casa. Ao mesmo tempo que Mende nos conta o que sofre, partilha tamb\u00e9m connosco as recorda\u00e7\u00f5es da inf\u00e2ncia, o seu sonho de estudar para ser m\u00e9dica e como era feliz e amada at\u00e9 \u00e0 noite em que o pesadelo come\u00e7ou. Uns anos mais tarde, Mende \u00e9 enviada como se fosse uma mercadoria para uma fam\u00edlia em Londres onde a viol\u00eancia, apesar de ser mais psicol\u00f3gica que f\u00edsica, a leva a pensar em por termo \u00e0 vida. Um dia, ajudada por outro nubiano e um jornalista ingl\u00eas, Mende consegue fugir e pede asilo. Que n\u00e3o lhe \u00e9 concedido de imediato porque... pasmem-se, a escravatura n\u00e3o era reconhecida como viol\u00eancia... Os relatos da viol\u00eancia cometida contra Mende tornam este livro pesad\u00edssimo. Mas confesso que a parte que mais me impressionou e que quase me levou a vomitar o pequeno almo\u00e7o foi o relato da circuncis\u00e3o (que aconteceu ainda na aldeia e um ou dois anos antes do rapto). Mende foi sujeita a infibula\u00e7\u00e3o, a forma mais grave e que consiste na costura dos l\u00e1bios ou do cl\u00edtoris, impedindo a menstrua\u00e7\u00e3o e frequentemente levando a mulher \u00e0 morte. E isto por volta das 10/11 anos de idade... Simplesmente pavoroso pensar o que as crian\u00e7as sofrem, a sangue frio, em nome duma religi\u00e3o que, na realidade, n\u00e3o o exige. Seria bom que mais pessoas lessem este livro, que pol\u00edticos o lessem e que percebessem que esta hist\u00f3ria n\u00e3o aconteceu no s\u00e9culo XIV ou XI. Passou-se em 1994 e Mende s\u00f3 se conseguiu libertar no ano 2001. E que ainda h\u00e1 imensas crian\u00e7as escravas no Sud\u00e3o e na Som\u00e1lia que precisam de ser libertas. Crian\u00e7as tratadas como lixo, como objectos e que n\u00e3o se conseguem libertar. Se calhar valia a pena pensar nisto... ...more Tawana recommended this book to me--I have so many books on my shelves already labeled \"to-read\" that I almost didn't read it! So glad I did! You can guess from the subject matter that the tale is pretty heart-wrenching at times. What was most profound for me is the copyright date. 2003. I had to keep stopping and looking at it to remind myself that this isn't a tale of the slave trade that once was, it's a vivid account of something happening right now. Maybe I'm just out of it. I guess I know Tawana recommended this book to me--I have so many books on my shelves already labeled \"to-read\" that I almost didn't read it! So glad I did! You can guess from the subject matter that the tale is pretty heart-wrenching at times. What was most profound for me is the copyright date. 2003. I had to keep stopping and looking at it to remind myself that this isn't a tale of the slave trade that once was, it's a vivid account of something happening right now. Maybe I'm just out of it. I guess I know things like this happen, other atrocities around the world that we just don't like to think about, but when you hear the story straight from someone who was bought, sold, traded, treated as an object...held as a slave...recently, it hits harder. When I was just graduated from college and moving to Seattle, she was being chased through her burning village and taken from her family. An amazing and inspiring story for sure. I just got back from hearing Mende speak at the Seattle Central Library (4/26/09), and it was gripping. At the end of her story, she started to try to describe what freedom is like for her. She said she really didn't have the words to describe it, and that to even begin would be a whole new story. That back in the Nuba Mountains, when she was a girl, she had freedom, simply, but that she never thought about it, not once. She just had it. To lose it for so many years and then regain it, that is a completely different kind of freedom. She said it's like a shadow right there all the time as she attempts to live a normal life. I wonder how she will ever fully step into that freedom after watching her relive the entire experience of captivity over for the forty or so of us in that auditorium. I watched her clench the microphone and podium and speak with such intention, trying to make us understand her story. She admitted to us that she knew we couldn't really understand, but she did also thank us, genuinely, for paying such close attention and coming to share her story. I feel grateful to have heard her story and watch her sign my book. ...more My favourite takeaways: I learned that Nuba culture is so beautiful. And that soft kindness, not knowing how to use certain things, fiery courage, and adoration for children is not something one should EVER hide because of embarrassment... And my breakdown? I got the impression that it was written in a simplified narrative but then I realized that the straightforwardness is genius in a way that can make it touch a lot more audiences - and I thought 'damn!' by the end! But serious talk, Mende and D My favourite takeaways: I learned that Nuba culture is so beautiful. And that soft kindness, not knowing how to use certain things, fiery courage, and adoration for children is not something one should EVER hide because of embarrassment... And my breakdown? I got the impression that it was written in a simplified narrative but then I realized that the straightforwardness is genius in a way that can make it touch a lot more audiences - and I thought 'damn!' by the end! But serious talk, Mende and Damien punch you in the gut so many times, makes your face scrunch, your stomach twist, and then your heart soars before your (if) developed-privileged-life guilt seeps in and makes you want to kick yourself in the ass; and if that's not the best reaction I can give to smack this book in your face god help you. Because at the end, I clutched this book for you Mende and I pray everything for you will be okay..I loved everything about your family; your father reminds me of mine and your mother is the perfect role model.. I pray for all the girls and boys enslaved; Nanu if you are still alive we are the same age and that hurts me more than I realized. I hope you are okay.. and I hope that one day the Sudanese tribes will be left alone by the NIF and all the disgusting spouses/families out there who encourage slavery because they're damn lazy slobs who shouldn't make their waste in the first place if they're so socially inept that they can't pick up their own homes. Buy a fucking shed to live in if it's so much work. Shame. On. You. I'm off the Guardian to find articles written by David Leigh about Mende for more updates! ...more This memoir by Mende Nazer is a very nice companion read to Halima Bashir's Tears of the Desert. Both of the women describe a childhood that is very idyllic, where they are surrounded by love and family, community and deeply woven culture of respect. In their villages where homes are carefully constructed mud huts and there is no electricity or running water, there is still a different kind of wealth; peace. If you need anything your neighbor will share it with you, there is no currency and one This memoir by Mende Nazer is a very nice companion read to Halima Bashir's Tears of the Desert. Both of the women describe a childhood that is very idyllic, where they are surrounded by love and family, community and deeply woven culture of respect. In their villages where homes are carefully constructed mud huts and there is no electricity or running water, there is still a different kind of wealth; peace. If you need anything your neighbor will share it with you, there is no currency and one might simply trade for items, everyone shares their belongings. There is a sense of all-encompassing peace that is foreign to most industrialized nations. And yet this is no Eden; there is still unique horrors like female circumcision and both women suffer horribly from this experience. Their lives become distinctly different after the Arab raids on their villages. Whereas Halima Bashir flees the country, Mende is captured and sold into slavery. Here one begins to see how modern day slavery is flourishing in the Sudan and the ways that human beings are torn down to become physically and psychologically controlled by their captors. Mende is so young she is truly a child when given the tasks that would break down a grown woman but she survives and her story becomes even more remarkable as you see how she becomes the woman she could only have dreamed of becoming. After reading both books whenever I see Sudanese families who have relocated to my community I am tempted to chase them and hug them for all they have overcome. =) ...more<---C>Mende Nazer</---C>", "Title": "Slave: My True Story"},
