{"Comments": "** Please be aware that the spoilers in this review are real , so don't click on them unless you've read the book. There are mild spoilers in the visible text, but they're not anything that you haven't already guessed if you're already a fan of the series. And since three people have done this already, please DO NOT discuss spoilers in this book without spoiler-tagging your comments since you will absolutely ruin the book for people who haven't read the book yet. If you don't know how to do this, ** Please be aware that the spoilers in this review are real , so don't click on them unless you've read the book. There are mild spoilers in the visible text, but they're not anything that you haven't already guessed if you're already a fan of the series. And since three people have done this already, please DO NOT discuss spoilers in this book without spoiler-tagging your comments since you will absolutely ruin the book for people who haven't read the book yet. If you don't know how to do this, please learn before commenting.** I absolutely LOVED the first two Hex Hall novels. There are few authors whose books I pounce on at midnight the day of release and stay up all night reading, so that should give you an idea of how much I love Sophie, Jenna, Archer, and Cal. The relationship between Sophie and Jenna is still fantastic, and that was probably my favorite part of this book. Their worry for each other,<---M> their banter</---M>, etc, are all familiar and funny and a welcome interlude whenever they're together. There is also a plot line involving (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [demon kids Nick and Daisy that pulled at my heartstrings a bit. (hide spoiler) ] I'm sorry to say that this turned out to be my least favorite book in the series, however. The action zips back and forth between a lot of locations and the various overlapping storylines felt rather jumbled, which is problematic even if you've already guessed many of the big secrets back when you were reading Demonglass . I had a hard time staying engaged in the story, especially since there were moments that seemed to lend themselves to a bigger emotional punch (view spoiler) [such as the revelation that her mom is a Brannick, the early interactions with Cal, seeing her father again, Archer being tortured, etc (hide spoiler) ] than were portrayed. I also got a little tired of Elodie popping up again and again (view spoiler) [and possessing Sophie's body (hide spoiler) ] and the way Sophie's magic came and went at pretty convenient moments. My two biggest issues with the book, however, were: 1. (view spoiler) [Sophie kissing Cal very soon after the book begins, before she even knows if something's happened to Archer. I'm not satisfied with the amount of guilt she felt after Archer pops up again, and in fact, she never even tells him about that particular kiss. Then Elodie later uses Sophie's body to kiss Cal again to torture Archer! Both scenarios just seemed very convoluted and forced to me, and they felt very different from the sunny nature of the previous books.<---F> (hide spoiler) ] 2</---F>. DO NOT CLICK THIS if you haven't read the book. Seriously. Don't do it. (view spoiler) [Cal's death. And the precious little amount of time spent mourning him. Please give me a hug. :( (hide spoiler) ] Not only did that make me extremely sad, but it felt so unnecessary. Many of the elements I enjoyed so much about the previous books just felt different here. It's definitely still a funny book, but there's so much going on that the humor doesn't flow quite as smoothly. The parental relationships, always one of the stronger parts of the Hex Hall and Demonglass, were largely absent here as well. And most of all, there's very little time spent with Archer or Cal. What's there relies a tremendous amount on your past knowledge of Sophie's intimacy with them, and there aren't nearly enough meaningful moments between them for my taste. (view spoiler) [Okay, and not nearly enough make out scenes, either! (hide spoiler) ] Don't get me wrong, there are some , but they didn't seem as urgent and charged as the ones in the previous books. Maybe it's just me? I'm really sad to feel this way about the ending of a series I love so much. I'm very curious to see what my fellow Sophie fans think of this one, though. I liked this book overall, but the surprises that this book offered were just not the kind that I really enjoyed. ...more Review, March 15: As much as it literally hurts rating this book four stars, I have to do it. I will admit to anyone who wants to hear that I have pretty much been obsessively waiting for this ending since I read Hex Hall on my birthday two years ago. Really. I have waited so long, and as much as I want to say it was perfect it wasn't. Not to say it wasn't enjoyable. In fact, I absolutly love it. I love the humor, I love the twist in Part two. I adore Sophie, Archer, Jenna, and Cal, and I so wish Review, March 15: As much as it literally hurts rating this book four stars, I have to do it. I will admit to anyone who wants to hear that I have pretty much been obsessively waiting for this ending since I read Hex Hall on my birthday two years ago. Really. I have waited so long, and as much as I want to say it was perfect it wasn't. Not to say it wasn't enjoyable. In fact, I absolutly love it. I love the humor, I love the twist in Part two. I adore Sophie, Archer, Jenna, and Cal, and I so wish that my parents were as totally cute as James and Grace are. But there are simply to many factors that take away from the book that make it a four star book for me. First off, the Brannicks. I have been waiting to find out what was going on with them since Demonglass, yet I feel that we hardly saw them. I did like the plot twist in Part Two, but that made us leave the Brannicks so abruptly, I was disappointed. I thought the book was going to be about Sophie learning how to kick butt via Brannick teachings, yet that didn't happen. We get to see some background information and meet the Brannicks, but then they are gone until much later in the book. I don't even feel like they were even fleshed out much. Even Izzy wasn't made much of a character. Then, there was the big battle sequence at the end. So, I am not going to spoil anything here, but I will say that it was a big disappointment. Think Mockingjay conflicts, where Katniss passes out during the really exciting parts. No, Sophie doesn't pass out until the end, but the whole battle was super short and way too easy. You'll see what I mean when you read it. I was looking forward to a epic battle, good vs. evil, that sort of thing, and again it didn't happen. Last of all, the love triangle. The following information is covered with the spoiler cover for a reason, so don't read it unless you want to see me rant on that. You have been warned. (view spoiler) [When I read Mockingjay, the one and only time I read it, I found myself hoping that the loser of Katniss's heart would sacrifice himself for Katniss. Well, God answered my plea, only in this book instead of that one. Racheal Hawkins kills Cal. Holy Hell Weasel. I didn't think she would have the guts to do it. It's actually probably the only thing about this book I'm completly content with if I want to be honest. Not that I was hoping Cal would die. I wasn't chanting that or anything during the book. However, it was almost romantic in a way, Cal healing Sophie and getting himself killed to save her life. It made me feel really sorry and actually care for him. I do think that Hawkins should have done him more justice though. I didn't think about Cal in the first book, and when she introduced him as a love intrest, I hated, well, disliked him. I'm in love Archer, and I still think the love triangle was pointless. Also, one more complaint, I wanted to see more of Sophie's parents. They are just so adorable together! (hide spoiler) ] Now that that's out of the way. I just want to say that I did enjoy this book and I think everyone who is a fan of Hex Hall will like it. Sophie's story is wrapped up, and most loose ends are tied. I'm hoping, wishing, praying that if Hawkins ever revisits this world again, it's from Izzy's eyes. All of my disappointments come really from there, because a lot of that story isn't resolved. Plus, I want to hear the story with that mirror guy. Anyway, again, THANKS TO EVERYONE who liked or commented on my review. It makes me feel special and you all are awesome. Virtual chocolate chip cookies for everyone!! BTW, sorry for any spelling mistakes. Pre-<+++>Spell Bound</+++> A third Hex Hall. That means Demonglass will probably end with another cliffhanger. Oh, why can't Sophie and Archer be together! EDIT Mar 15: Yep. Another stinking cliffhanger. EDIT June 20: Oooo, it's called <+++>Spell Bound</+++>. Now if we can only up the release date... no? Fine, but I'm ready to see a cover people! EDIT August 9: Look at that sword! Sophie is going to kick some evil butt to get her Archer back! Yeah! (Though this cover is not nearly as epic as the Demonglass cover) EDIT March 13!!!:) I have it! Yay, yay, yay, yay! But darn it, I have all this college work that I should do before I read the book. So conflicted... ...more Are you trying to make me insane, Ms. Hawkins? What happens if I die before this book comes out, huh? I will have been left with the cliffhanger of Demonglass as an ending. I hope you're happy with yourself. . . .Okay, okay, I am bordering on the melodramatic, I know. I just can't believe this book's release is so far away! That ending was evil. Not demon evil, but evil enough. I am Spellbound. Every time I read a book by a Rachel, it seems I am instantly captivated. Let me just recall some of these lovelies. Rachel E. Carter , Rachel Higginson and now <---A>Rachel Hawkins</---A> . Maybe it also has a lot to do with my awesome big sister being Rachel too. Now, now, let\u2019s go to the review. As much as I would like to say this is the best book in the series, I could not do that because honestly, compared to the first two, this is not as great but...there\u2019s a BIG BUT (no pun intended. s I am Spellbound. Every time I read a book by a Rachel, it seems I am instantly captivated. Let me just recall some of these lovelies. Rachel E. Carter , Rachel Higginson and now Rachel Hawkins . Maybe it also has a lot to do with my awesome big sister being Rachel too. Now, now, let\u2019s go to the review. As much as I would like to say this is the best book in the series, I could not do that because honestly, compared to the first two, this is not as great but...there\u2019s a BIG BUT (no pun intended. seriously.), I am still very happy with how everything has been concluded in this finale. What I love most in this series is how each character in the books has become really endearing. From the sassy heroine, Sophie, who never failed to crack me up, charming Archer, the quiet but heroic Cal, adorable Jenna and even the bitchy ghost, Elodie, the new characters (the Brannicks and even crazy Torin) and Sophie\u2019s parents. All of them managed to make me laugh that they feel to me like really good friends and I just want to gather them all including Rachel Hawkins and myself in one big group hug. I\u2019m so going to miss them. *sniffs* I am not overlooking the missing details in the plot such as the supposedly significant role of the Eye and the Brannicks in the story and how several events are quite downplayed a bit but the adventures the characters went through are still fascinating and engaging. I wasn\u2019t given an \u201cepic finale\u201d because that\u2019s really highly unlikely and unrealistic because these books are more under the quirky, mushy, amusing type but I couldn\u2019t think of better resolutions than those presented by the author. Even this character's death- I was like NOOOOOOO! at his death at first but eventually realized that it was acceptable and meaningful. A happy ending is inevitable and I really liked it that everyone got some perks. Even the dead ones got theirs. Lol. I could already imagine my friend, Melissa saying \"This, she prefers over Angelfall ?\" while rolling her eyes and smirking, definitely smirking and maybe even shaking her head. You influence me way too much, Melissa. Lol. ...more Is someone having fun conspiring against me? 2012?! Is this some kind of joke? Should I be laughing? Probably I should, but no, I will kill somebody and then I'll feel better. *Thinks about killing some certain author but what if that certain author has a fourth book? Who would write it then, right? Kills a mosquito instead* No, I don't fell better. I WANT Spell Bound! *Starts creating a diabolic plan to, somehow (time machine?), drop in 2012 and come back with the book* Normally I read books about three years after they come out which would've been perfect for Demonglass because then I wouldn't have to WAIT for the third book to come out. I wouldn't care usually, I'd just add this to my to-read list and get on with life but WTF WAS THAT CLIFFHANGER? IT MADE ME WANT TO TEAR THE BOOK APART? AHHH ASDJHNWFNLAESIUGNLD. Please, Rachel Hawkins, have some mercy. My poor soul is dying here. I need this book soooooo bad! After that ultimate cliffhanger I was like what...what.....woah...no...that couldn't have been it.... I actually kept on turning the page to see if there was a secret couple of pages that I was missing. WHY ,HAWKINS, WHYYY?! This is just cruel. :((( I think all of my favorite authors are conspiring against me to have totally awful cliffhangers and not publish their books for extended periods of time. Sighhh Edit: Ohhh I do like the name of the book. Spell Bound! Woot! I need this book soooooo bad! After that ultimate cliffhanger I was like what...what.....woah...no...that couldn't have been it.... I actually kept on turning the page to see if there was a secret couple of pages that I was missing. WHY ,HAWKINS, WHYYY?! This is just cruel. :((( I think all of my favorite authors are conspiring against me to have totally awful cliffhangers and not publish their books for extended periods of time. Sighhh Edit: Ohhh I do like the name of the book. Spell Bound! Woot! All I'm saying is Sophie had better get her powers \"unlocked\" so she can be all badass again :) Edit #2: soo....the cover is freaking awesome; she looks like a modern day warrior with the bloody sword! At least if she doesn't get her powers back right away she can just slice and dice! hahah ...more I want this like Sophie Mercer wants Archer Cross. (In my bed with me now! Because that's where I read books) The above is my pre-reading review. Liked it! I always need more Archer though. Wonder what the spin-off series is going to be about. (view spoiler) [I kinda hope the little Brannick girls. (hide spoiler) ] PSA Unrelated to the book but important. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> Was it just me or was anyone else truly and utterly disappointed with this book? I really, really, really liked the first two, but this one just didn't do it for me - not because Sophie didn't choose the guy I was rooting for but becasue the whole book itself was pretty blah. First of all, I LOVED Sophie in the first two books. This one, not so much. She was just downright annoying. \"Hellalicious? Duck, duck, demon? Brannicks, magic and hell, ohmy?\" Really?!?! I know Hawkins was writing Sophie as Was it just me or was anyone else truly and utterly disappointed with this book? I really, really, really liked the first two, but this one just didn't do it for me - not because Sophie didn't choose the guy I was rooting for but becasue the whole book itself was pretty blah. First of all, I LOVED Sophie in the first two books. This one, not so much. She was just downright annoying. \"Hellalicious? Duck, duck, demon? Brannicks, magic and hell, ohmy?\" Really?!?! I know Hawkins was writing Sophie as a character that was trying to make light of the situation, but she was trying WAY to hard to be funny. And what's worse, it seems like Hawkins knew that and she would follow the cheesy comment ACTUALLY saying that Sophie was trying to make a joke of it or that Sophie grimmace at the sounds of that. The book itself was just okay. Don't get me wrong, there were a few good scenes in there, but most of it was blah. I was really bored definitely through the first part of the book until the guys showed back up (and no it wasn't because of the lack of romance) and pretty much up until halfway through the book. And the whole change from the Brannicks to Hex Hall and then to Ireland was just so choppy that it was disorienting, and splitting it up into Part 1, 2 and 3 didn't excuse it any less. As for the love triangle, don't even get me started. Do not click this until you've read the book because it does contain MAJOR spoilers. (view spoiler) [First of all, I've never been a big fan of Archer, even from book 1. He was arrognt, obnoxious and not very swoon worthy. And I didn't like that they called each other by their last names even after they became romantically involved. Believe me, I've had my fair share of favoring the bad boy or the jerk over the nice, sweet one. BUT I can't can't stand Archer. Sorry, no love lost there. I did like Cal, though I knew Hawkins would never write Sophie ending up with him. What I WAS disappointed in however, was the way Sophie treated him in this book. As if kissing him and then kissing Archer ten minutes after wasn't bad enough, Hawkins had to find SOME way to keep him romantically in the picture. So what better way to do it than use Eloise's possession to make it happen. Sure, just blame it on Eloise. Because Sophie didn't enjoy it. Because Sophie's not woman enough to go after the kiss herself. Because Hawkins can't have readers hating her. Absolutely CRUEL. So I was trying to figure out how Hawkins was going to write him out. Maybe give him to Finn? Maybe find him another love? Maube have him realize that she's not the right one for him. No, she had to off him. Too easy. Meanwhile Sophie continues her happily ever after with the asshat. (hide spoiler) ] Sorry, maybe a little bitter about the whole thing. I can't say this was a bad book to read because it did have its moments. Unfortunately, it was NOWHERE NEAR as good or as intriguing as the first two. Truly sad to see a good series end like this. ...more D' Epic Battles Harry 's version... Aragorn 's version... Sophie 's version... There are lots of reasons why I gave it two stars or what we called OK stars rather than the Liked stars. The Hex Hall has been highlighted or well known for its being fluffy, charming and funny. And that\u2019s why I liked this series. This third book on the other hand is too darn dark to be neither these three. sigh! Initially I had problems with the \" whole book \". I never felt fully immersed with it. I felt like a ping pong ball D' Epic Battles Harry 's version... Aragorn 's version... Sophie 's version... There are lots of reasons why I gave it two stars or what we called OK stars rather than the Liked stars. The Hex Hall has been highlighted or well known for its being fluffy, charming and funny. And that\u2019s why I liked this series. This third book on the other hand is too darn dark to be neither these three. sigh! Initially I had problems with the \" whole book \". I never felt fully immersed with it. I felt like a ping pong ball that constantly tossed from one side to another. There were twists and turns and lots of the snark that kind of didn\u2019t flow well, mainly because there are so much going on and the storylines should have had more depth to them. I really don\u2019t want to spoil the story for you, but there\u2019s a slightly darker feel towards the end of the book. I felt a bit cheated with Hawkins taken an easy way out to get to the ending that she came up with. And the big choices, highlighted moments and the final battle were a bit not so ' big '. I\u2019m all like ' Oh she easily repelled the power of the mwahaha-evil ! Good for her. ' or more like ' that\u2019s all will happen when you visited the underworld? ' Yeah in other word: why the heck its way too easy with her? As for the characters they are still likeable, especially Cal and Jenna. Both of them I think did grow from the first to this last book though I didn\u2019t like what happened to one of them. For Archer, he\u2019s still charming and all but he goes from Mr. Hot down to Mr. Cute . Maybe because he has smaller part in here and their ( Sophie-Archer ) love team didn\u2019t give me sparks compare to Sophie-Cal love team. And now for Sophie ... well, Sophie's character to my opinion is quiet overdone in this book. Don\u2019t get me wrong, her humor has always been one of my favorite parts of the series, but it sometimes felt very out of place in the more tense situations here. I think that, as a reader, I was just expecting so much more from this final book in the series since the middle book was just so good. Ah! Well Spell Bound was still a good book, it just wasn't a great book, at least it didn't end great. ...more Want it... Need it!!! I kept hitting next page on my kindle at the last page.... that's just plain old evil!!! >.< I should protest the next book, but I WANT IT!!! and for some reason, I'm rooting for Cal... Archer... I trust him as far as i can throw him. 4/5/12- finished the book in one sitting.... I was suspious at first with the begining but...it all turned out beautifully besides one part....curse you Archer! Curse you! Lol (team cal always!!) Pre-review: Am I the only one who have grown to dislike Sophie and think she's becoming increasingly annoying during the first two books? Am I the only one to think Ms. Hawkins' supposed 'humor' and witty remarks are getting old? Am I the only one who thinks witty remarks are nice, but if they were spoon-fed to us in almost every single page of a novel, then I will have to say 'enough is enough'? In another words, I don't have much high hope for that third book of the series. Short Review: 1.5 star. I Pre-review: Am I the only one who have grown to dislike Sophie and think she's becoming increasingly annoying during the first two books? Am I the only one to think Ms. Hawkins' supposed 'humor' and witty remarks are getting old? Am I the only one who thinks witty remarks are nice, but if they were spoon-fed to us in almost every single page of a novel, then I will have to say 'enough is enough'? In another words, I don't have much high hope for that third book of the series. Short Review: 1.5 star. I have a feeling that Ms. Hawkins was either not being serious, or she simply had stopped caring about her own story and characters when she wrote Spell Bound. I can't even feel she had been making any effort to make her book decent, and I hate it when authors get lazy. What a disappointment! (Link to original photo: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art... ) Authors, write your books with care, don't be lazy! I dislike lazy authors as much as the bad ones! Sophie continues to be annoyingly and unnecessarily witty and filled with smartass remarks in this book, whilst the evil witches had already launched their attack, people are dying and her daddy, best friend and love interests are missing in a burning building. Still need me to say more about her? It may be okay for a character to make light of the serious situation once in a while, but for an entire book? Are you kidding!? The structure of the book is also problematic, we shifted from one scene to another so rapidly that I feel like the entire novel is being shabbily chopped up and then thrown messily back together; or it's like Ms. Hawkins had too many ideas but she was in too much a hurry and she only had the space of one book instead of two to tell her tale. Plus there're a lot of things just conveniently happen in Spell Bound. For example, Elodie's ghost conveniently shows up now and then to use magic when Sophie's own magic is sealed off. The evil villains talk freely about how they plan to control Sophie and use her as a weapon right in front of Sophie herself . Can you see what it is? Lazy writing. Talking about Elodie, I'm super disappointed by how she was handled by Ms. Hawkins from book 1 to book 3. I mean, in Book 1 Hex Hall, Elodie and her fellow witches killed a classmate and framed another, and throughout an entire book none of those witches showed the tiniest hint of guilt for what they had done. No one snapped or broke down because they were feeling sorry or scared. There're only two possibilities for their behaviors: (1) Elodie and her friends are extremely cold blooded and irredeemable, or (2) Hex Hall isn't as well written as everyone had made it sound. And then in book 3, Elodie becomes oh-so helpful, what's her motives? Why are she helping Sophie now? Wasn't she supposed to hate normal humans enough to try calling up a demon before? So why is she now okay with Sophie's attempt to stop the evil witches from hurting humans? Zero explanation. Hawkins didn't bother to even bring these up. Just as lazy and ridiculous is Sophie's trip to Hell . That part of the story reads like Hawkins wrote this book for 5 years old kids, not young adults who know better. As to the ending, I simply don't give a damn, but the death of a certain character still angers me... As a whole, it looks like Ms. Hawkins didn't care about her book anymore when she penned Spell Bound. Maybe she thought: \"Since the first two books are selling so well, my readers will surely be buying the last book of the series regardless of the quality!\" So here we are, with a badly written final book being shoved to us. I think if the Hex Hall series is about a girl discovering that she's a witch and tries to deal with being a witch instead of a girl finding out not only she's a witch BUT ALSO A SUPER-SPECIAL WITCH, THE ONLY ONE OF HER KIND WHO'S GOING TO FIGHT THE EVIL WITCHES AND SAVE THE WORLD. I would have been a lot happier with this series. The one good thing about Spell Bound is that it's a quick read, it wouldn't charge you much. If you need a book to kill time, you may also try. ...more The series has been losing steam since the second book. Scenes, actions and plots in this book feel overly simplified and rushed. (view spoiler) [Sophie breaks Lara's control over her - a control over three generations and two bloodlines, a main plot device - done over several sentences in one paragraph. The underworld scene - apparently the underworld is a cavern, a small one at that, and they walk couple of hundred yards in it, then it's done. Given the amount of hardship the characters are drag The series has been losing steam since the second book. Scenes, actions and plots in this book feel overly simplified and rushed. (view spoiler) [Sophie breaks Lara's control over her - a control over three generations and two bloodlines, a main plot device - done over several sentences in one paragraph. The underworld scene - apparently the underworld is a cavern, a small one at that, and they walk couple of hundred yards in it, then it's done. Given the amount of hardship the characters are dragged through in this book, The emotions are very superficial. Not much was there on the emotional impact of Archer being tortured repeatedly, his family tragedy, their love triangle, Cal's feelings, etc. etc... scenes, plots are brushed over and simplified. (hide spoiler) ] In the end, I feel like the book is just going through the motion for the sake of finishing it. What a shame. I've grown attached to these characters and had hoped they would have more depth and growth in the final book. ...more I'm not sure how long has it been since I've read Demonglass, but while reading this one, it felt like it has been too long. It's like my brain lost it's ability to remember details from previous books and at some times, I was lost. I forgot names, relationships and some pretty big events that happened before this book. However, page by page, I remebered most of it. This was an okay last book in the series. It was not an epic finale and I can't even call it a conclusion since it left open door for a I'm not sure how long has it been since I've read Demonglass, but while reading this one, it felt like it has been too long. It's like my brain lost it's ability to remember details from previous books and at some times, I was lost. I forgot names, relationships and some pretty big events that happened before this book. However, page by page, I remebered most of it. This was an okay last book in the series. It was not an epic finale and I can't even call it a conclusion since it left open door for a spin-off that, as far as I know, will not be happening any time soon (if ever!). The writing style is really good. I had fun reading Sophie's sarcastic comments. She has the best humor style you could ask from a book character. This series is the funniest paranormal book series I have read so far. I enjoyed reading it and now I'm looking forward to start Hawkin's other series, Rebel Belle . ...more This book was really good! But it is my least favorite book in the trilogy, and it's not because it was bad, it's because everything in this book was just so fast pace I had trouble grasping onto what was going on. Still a great book though! I finished reading this book last night, and I needed to calm down before I write a review. (This contains few spoilers, so watch out!) I'm too depressed, too sad, and too frustrated. I know I should have not taken this book so personally, but I've grown to really like Cal, and it has hurt me damn much on what has happened to him. He didn't deserve it. It was too much. I hate Hawkins for doing it to him, she didn't even give him a chance to be happy. And I also hate myself because I'm so affecte I finished reading this book last night, and I needed to calm down before I write a review. (This contains few spoilers, so watch out!) I'm too depressed, too sad, and too frustrated. I know I should have not taken this book so personally, but I've grown to really like Cal, and it has hurt me damn much on what has happened to him. He didn't deserve it. It was too much. I hate Hawkins for doing it to him, she didn't even give him a chance to be happy. And I also hate myself because I'm so affected. I know, this is not about Sophie and Archer since he's out of the picture already, but hey, why did he has to die? I don't really get the point there. Anyway, I was also hoping that Hawkins will write a little love story between Cal and Elodie, but no! It didn't happen! Just a slight comment from Elodie about making Cal change his mind about her. Yeah, this whole review is all about Cal, and not about the book, but I hope you'll understand my sentiments and I'm seriously grieving right now. It'll take me a whole bunch of happy books to cheer up. Maybe if I'm not this sad anymore, I can give a proper review. LOL! ...more RATING: 2 Out Of 5 Major. Let. Down. How un-surprising that the last novel in the Hex Hall series would be a major let down and be utterly disappointing. Eghh its infuriating some of the events that transpired in the novel and readers you\u2019ll know exactly what I\u2019m talking about when you read it. The novel is un-funny \u2013 though it does try very hard to be so, but I\u2019m afraid it falls short in the funny department. Looks like Hawkins used up all her cans of funny in the previous two books, and these bo RATING: 2 Out Of 5 Major. Let. Down. How un-surprising that the last novel in the Hex Hall series would be a major let down and be utterly disappointing. Eghh its infuriating some of the events that transpired in the novel and readers you\u2019ll know exactly what I\u2019m talking about when you read it. The novel is un-funny \u2013 though it does try very hard to be so, but I\u2019m afraid it falls short in the funny department. Looks like Hawkins used up all her cans of funny in the previous two books, and these books cannot survive without the funny. The funniness is what makes these books. This is the first major down fall. The second is the story line, it\u2019s just kind of jumbled and rushed and doesn\u2019t feel right. It feels like Hawkins has just made up stuff and chucked it in there just to chuck it in there, not caring if it actually fits right into the story. Also Sophie I loved in the previous two novels, in this book however I did not, she did so many things I don\u2019t agree with and made her very unlikeable. I\u2019m just amazed how a book series that started off amazing ended up so crappy and silly? Perfect example of this though is the Strange Angels series, same problem. The other major let down is the big impending battle in the end. Yer it\u2019s not a big battle at all. It goes for 14 pages!!!! That\u2019s it; the big battle that was built up in every novel goes for 14 pages!! Was the most stupidest boringest battle ever, they don\u2019t even defeat the big evil themselves, they have (view spoiler) [ her sister to thank for that, imagine if you guys actually had to fight someone yourselves, you guys would have your arses handed to you on a plate (hide spoiler) ] . Oh and yer they go to the underworld and oh that\u2019s excited and is explored... yer no \u2013 under 10pages. So many times Hawkins could have explored and delved into deeper many of the things she introduced in the novel but she doesn\u2019t, instead she filled the book with boring and not needed/unnecessary scenes. I think Cal is the most unlucky character in the world, he is constantly getting f***ed over in every book and this book is no different, with this one being the worst of the them all with... (view spoiler) [Cal getting to finally make out with Sophie, or so he thinks, it\u2019s actually Elodie possessing her body. So Cal is f***ed over by that. Secondly, Hawkins kills him off!!! He already had a shit existence throughout the novels; with him seeing his fianc\u00e9e go off with someone else, and instead of giving him a nice happy ending \u2013 because he deserves it \u2013 YOU KILL HIM OFF!!! Not fair. Poor Cal. (hide spoiler) ] And there you have it. The last novel, is the let down of the series and such a dissapointment. Oh well, it only took me a day to read, so not that much is lost. ...more Wow! This series really is enchanting!No wonder,I was also bewitched in Rachel Hawkins' School Spirits which is clearly btw not a sequel to Hex Hall,nor Hex Hall is a sequel to School Spirits.But both have a different kind of entertaining stories where in the other series,you'll find the story of Izzy(Isolde) while the other is about Sophie. I can't believe that the newly introduced characters here were actually the characters I was missing in School Spirits,(though they were already mentioned in Wow! This series really is enchanting!No wonder,I was also bewitched in Rachel Hawkins' School Spirits which is clearly btw not a sequel to Hex Hall,nor Hex Hall is a sequel to School Spirits.But both have a different kind of entertaining stories where in the other series,you'll find the story of Izzy(Isolde) while the other is about Sophie. I can't believe that the newly introduced characters here were actually the characters I was missing in School Spirits,(though they were already mentioned in Hex Hall) but I never thought they'll play an important role in this final book!How amazing,right? So when I've found out that these new characters have a major connection with Sophie, I got even more excited and couldn't help admiring how brilliant RACHEL HAWKINS is for creating this very unique,enthralling story. In this final sequel,Sophie and her allies have come to work and plan together on how would they get Sophie's power back,and end the evilness of their enemies. There were also shed-tears moments in the story,especially on the death of one charater here and it did devastate me.But then,it was an honorable death that would make you respect and love this particular character even more. The ending I must say though is a bit abrupt, but I did enjoy reading it 'cause \"Sophie Awesome Sparkle-Princess\" is so hilarious! Just to prove that,let me share you some of her dialouges that totally cracked me up: **- \"Why would there be soup in-oh,\"supes\"?Like for supernaturals?\" **- \"Jackass,jackass on the wall,where's the info on Hex Hall?\" **- \"We could go to Lough Bealach\",Aislinn said and Sophie asked,\"Is that a place or are you choking?\" Until now,those lines make me laugh everytime I read them so yes, the ending is still fantastic! I just felt a little sad when I'm done reading it because I know,I will deeply miss the characters including Elodie,who I adored here in this final sequel,Izzy,Finley,Aislinn and Torin again(glad to see them here). I never reread the books that I've already read,but this series had totally got me and I'm sure,I'm going to reopen this one day. And so yes, now I absolutely agree with my little sister Aj that \"RACHEL\" indeed is a lovely and a fantastic name!lol^^ So my fellow readers,don't ever miss this series! ...more Rachel Hawkins knows how to make me smile ! Solid ending to this series. I liked how it concluded. First thing first. I love the ending. (view spoiler) [Though, happy endings are too mainstream, it seems to me that the ending of the third installment of this book, this whole trilogy was heart-warming and pure happiness. I can picture Sophie smiling, holding the hands of Jenna and Archer, also smiling too. (hide spoiler) ] The story has started when Sophie enter the Itineris and came up in the Brannicks homestead and in just that particular beginning, a revelation has shocked Sophie. Me too. I re First thing first. I love the ending. (view spoiler) [Though, happy endings are too mainstream, it seems to me that the ending of the third installment of this book, this whole trilogy was heart-warming and pure happiness. I can picture Sophie smiling, holding the hands of Jenna and Archer, also smiling too. (hide spoiler) ] The story has started when Sophie enter the Itineris and came up in the Brannicks homestead and in just that particular beginning, a revelation has shocked Sophie. Me too. I really have no idea that was possible, but after reading it, okay, I accept it. More revelations had come to my way, about the Brannicks, Sophie herself, and others that really froze my mouth gaping. In this final installment of Hex Hall, I am really relieved and happy that it didn't en route to a wrong turn. It is now clear to me who are in the bad side and who are in the good side. Our characters were still awesome and the new characters were also likable, especially Izzy and Torin. Sophie, I still really loved Sophie. She grew stronger and wiser. Her sarcasm was given, no doubt on that. She never failed to amuse me with her snarky dialogues and wittiness. Elodie's character was also very important in the book. One just can't underestimate her. My issues about the book are: 1. The blurb says there is an epic war but I guess there is none. The war was plain simple, I'm afraid. I don't want to elaborate but I didn't read an epic war, just fighting. 2. The information about The Eye and the Brannicks are lacking. I want to know more. 3. The adventure to the Underworld is quite fast. I am hoping that they will encounter something demonic but no. (Though what they experienced is quite demonic too) 4. Some characters were not explained who really they are. Indeed, this is still a very good book that will bring you an abundance of laughter and a bunchful of tears. Though my issues with the book, other events are still breath-taking, heart-pounding, riveting and will cause you to stab the antagonists to death. ...more It wasn't terrible beyond belief, but I didn't connect with it. I enjoyed the interaction between Sophie & Elodie, & Torrin was a decent side character. I didn't even mind Cal's resolution, per se. But guys, the forced humor. The inappropriately timed snark. The constant barrage of lame-ass jokes. ENOUGH. STFU. Sophie barely opens her mouth unless it's to say something humorous (or the author's version thereof). True, Sophie has always been a smartass, but in the past she knew when to shu It wasn't terrible beyond belief, but I didn't connect with it. I enjoyed the interaction between Sophie & Elodie, & Torrin was a decent side character. I didn't even mind Cal's resolution, per se. But guys, the forced humor. The inappropriately timed snark. The constant barrage of lame-ass jokes. ENOUGH. STFU. Sophie barely opens her mouth unless it's to say something humorous (or the author's version thereof). True, Sophie has always been a smartass, but in the past she knew when to shut up & be serious. I didn't see that here -- which is odd, given the serious undercurrent of the plot. Likewise, it doesn't seem like her relationship with Archer has matured since the other books, & I agree with another reviewer who asked why the council would give her such a position of power when she's barely 17. And speaking of power...what's with that battle for control of her demon-self? All that yammering build-up for TWO F'ING PAGES? C'mon. Talk about brushing a significant moment under the rug. Overall, it felt as if the author dumped all her leftover plot-bunnies into a Vitamix & blended into 300-page gravy. For all that goes on in Spellbound , it should have been twice as long as the others. The first section rushes through revelations about Sophie's mom (yawn) & crams in a useless cameo from Sophie's dad (that's it? really?), before shoveling everyone back to school...only to have them escape yet again & make an utterly WTF journey to the Underworld -- the possibility of which has never been mentioned until halfway through this particular book. (Deus-ex-machina? Your knickers are showing.) Follow that with a spottily-described epic battle & some help from the all-knowing Tome O' Magical Awesomeness (aka more deus-ex-machina)...yeah, not feeling it. My conclusion: the author bit off more than she could chew with three fast-reading novels that were geared toward a younger YA audience. ...more Rating: 4.5 out of 5 stars! I don't want to write this review. Instead, I want to hide in the corner with a blanket and some tissues so I can read this book all over again because: It. Was. AMAZING! Taking place right where Demonglass left off, Spell Bound starts off running and doesn't slow down at all. Every time you think that something is going right and the cast will finally get a break, something else goes wrong that leaves you flipping pages faster than before. Hawkins knows how to write a Rating: 4.5 out of 5 stars! I don't want to write this review. Instead, I want to hide in the corner with a blanket and some tissues so I can read this book all over again because: It. Was. AMAZING! Taking place right where Demonglass left off, Spell Bound starts off running and doesn't slow down at all. Every time you think that something is going right and the cast will finally get a break, something else goes wrong that leaves you flipping pages faster than before. Hawkins knows how to write a one-sit read, and she proves it a million times over with this book! Sophie has to be one of my favourite heroines of all time! She's the Queen of Snark, the demon you want as your best friend, the kind of girl you can count on... but most of all, she's real . So much happens during the span of this book \u2014 and this entire series \u2014 that causes her to continue to grow yet still remain the same fantastic girl we know and love. This review wouldn't be complete without mentioning the boys. \u2665 I love Archer because his snark matches Sophie's in a way that makes him perfect for her, and he has that sort of bad-boyish feel to him that all girls love. But Cal \u2014 who pulls off the strong, silent, yet really sweet healer like no one else \u2014 will do some things that will completely win over your heart. My only complaint is that there's one HUGE plot twist near the end that I felt wasn't touched on enough! I wanted closure; I wanted recognition; I wanted time to cry , damn it, because it blew me off my feet even though the rest of the end felt perfect in its own way. Finales are always hard to swallow because sometimes you're too emotional over the end to feel anything else, but Rachel Hawkins managed to craft a brilliant end to a brilliant series! Spell Bound is as fast-paced, fun, and awesome as I thought it would be, yet it was also intense, gripping, and heartbreaking too. My recommendation for this series is sky high! BUY or BORROW?: If you don't have this series on your shelf yet, I have nothing to say to you except to buy it! These books are perfect if you want to read something fast or fun or just plain awesome. I LOVE having them all on my shelf! :) (Original review at Mimi Valentine's YA Review Blog ) ...more Popcorn! If I had to pick a mood-food to go with these books it would have to be a big buttery bowl of popcorn. It just goes so nicely with the theme of entertaining and fun as hell! I'm gonna keep this brief since really all I have to say is that I freaken love this series!! It's fun and funny, it's exciting and completely consuming. It doesn't have one dry moment. I love the writing and the zingy dialog. The characters are incredibly easy to love, the romance is giggly swoon-worthy and the story Popcorn! If I had to pick a mood-food to go with these books it would have to be a big buttery bowl of popcorn. It just goes so nicely with the theme of entertaining and fun as hell! I'm gonna keep this brief since really all I have to say is that I freaken love this series!! It's fun and funny, it's exciting and completely consuming. It doesn't have one dry moment. I love the writing and the zingy dialog. The characters are incredibly easy to love, the romance is giggly swoon-worthy and the story-line is one big heart-pound. There was only one moment I could have lived without, and anyone who has read this already knows what that one moment was, so I wont bother spoiling it. If it wasn't for a certain scene at the very end of the book, I probably would have given this a 4/4.5 star but I thought that was sincerely a nice touch and it made my heart happy even though it was still something that I wish could have been avoided instead. Yeah, so other then that, I absolutely loved this! I'm sad to see one of my most beloved series go, but I look forward to seeing what Hawkins has in store for us next! ...more Carino! Fresco e simpatico, questo libro mi ci voleva proprio in questo periodo! Sophie \u00e8 una protagonista che sa prendersi in giro, che trasforma, grazie a delle battute mirate, le situazioni pi\u00f9 difficili in qualcosa di molto pi\u00f9 simpatico. Certo, mi aspettavo un pochino di pi\u00f9 da questo ultimo volume, e si, sono acida, ma lo pseudo triangolo tra Cal, la stessa Sophie e Archer mi \u00e8 sembrato, lasciatemelo dire, INUTILE, cos\u00ec come il sacrificio di Cal alla fine. Cio\u00e8 no, non ci sto. E si, c\u2019era d Carino! Fresco e simpatico, questo libro mi ci voleva proprio in questo periodo! Sophie \u00e8 una protagonista che sa prendersi in giro, che trasforma, grazie a delle battute mirate, le situazioni pi\u00f9 difficili in qualcosa di molto pi\u00f9 simpatico. Certo, mi aspettavo un pochino di pi\u00f9 da questo ultimo volume, e si, sono acida, ma lo pseudo triangolo tra Cal, la stessa Sophie e Archer mi \u00e8 sembrato, lasciatemelo dire, INUTILE, cos\u00ec come il sacrificio di Cal alla fine. Cio\u00e8 no, non ci sto. E si, c\u2019era di mezzo una guerra e tutto quanto, ma perch\u00e9 a rimetterci deve essere sempre l\u2019amico a cui si \u00e8 inevitabilmente rifilato il 2 di picche? Uno spreco proprio, come uno spreco \u00e8 stato svelarci in fretta e in fuga il passato di Archer e il suo coinvolgimento con Nick\u2026 (O.O). Non lo so, il libro \u00e8 carinissimo, ma gli eventi si susseguono troppo velocemente e si concludono con troppa facilit\u00e0. Mi \u00e8 dispiaciuto anche non aver potuto sapere di pi\u00f9 sulla riconciliazione tra i genitori di Sophie\u2026 pensate un po\u2019! L\u2019autrice sa scrivere con leggerezza e allegria e questa serie, comunque, si \u00e8 conclusa in modo molto carino! ...more Left me mostly bored, the author really fell into some of the pitfalls for what not to do in a sequel. Introduce forgettable, almost pointless characters that appear infrequently and leave little impression? Check. Resolve the cliffhangers from the last book in the most passive way possible? Check. Less action/character development/plot than the previous ones? Check. I'm just glad this one ends rather cleanly so I don't have to keep reading this series. This book was a crazy ride, and I loved it! It was a great end to the trilogy, but I'm going to miss the series! Check out my video review! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMbHME... Un degno finale per una bellissima trilogia <3 Archer, mi mancherai!! Recensione: http://wefoundwonderlandinbooks.blogs... *flail flail flail* Also: *flail* Oh, Untitled third book of the Hex Hall series, I want you so bad.<---C>Sophia Mercer</---C>", "Title": "Spell Bound"},
