{"Comments": "<+++>Beyond the Event Horizon</+++>Space opera,<---M> time travel</---M>, hi-tech, and young adult fiction all wrapped up in one. It's not marketed as young adult, but I think it could qualify as such based on some younger endearing characters and the fact that the language is clean.<---F> Thoroughly enjoyable though</---F>. I borrowed this book from the Kindle Owner's Lending Library after reading the book description and a few of the reviews there. This is the first \"Christian Sci-Fi\" book I've read, and it proved to be an interesting genre. I'm so used to reading science fiction assuming the author's worldview is vastly different from my own, and I found myself mildly shocked every time Christianity was presented so overtly. Once I got used to the shock, I found it kind of refreshing to read something speculative I borrowed this book from the Kindle Owner's Lending Library after reading the book description and a few of the reviews there. This is the first \"Christian Sci-Fi\" book I've read, and it proved to be an interesting genre. I'm so used to reading science fiction assuming the author's worldview is vastly different from my own, and I found myself mildly shocked every time Christianity was presented so overtly. Once I got used to the shock, I found it kind of refreshing to read something speculative from someone with similar religious leanings to my own (<---B>or, for that matter, with religious leanings at all</---B>). The plot is a bit disjointed, with Parts 1 and 4 following the story of Skylar Rains as he travels into the future. The middle parts cover two back stories of a group of space travelers (Part 2) and a group of colonists on a distant planet (Part 3). Part 4 attempts to bring it all together, but I found myself having to flip back to previous sections to remind myself about characters and plot points that are quickly developed (and, honestly, quickly forgotten). The main character, Skylar, does experience some growth (and depth) during the course of the story, but most of the other characters are fairly shallow, with little growth, or even change, although I did enjoy the characters on the ship in Part 2. Often, it seemed like themes were presented didactically, often through dialogue, rather than developed through the characters and their actions. Overall, this is a noble effort, combining Christianity with sci-fi elements like time travel and space travel. I especially like the author's and publisher's decision to price the book so attractively. I have no regrets about spending time reading <+++>Beyond the Event Horizon</+++> , and I am anxious to seek out other titles by the author. ...more Great sci-fi suspense story told in 3 distinct parts. The story begins in the near future with a man who hijacks a time machine and heads off into the future. A mistake leaves him stranded nearly a thousand years further than intended. What he discovers requires a lot of investigation and \"archaeology\" on his part. This is where the story breaks off and tells two other stories. They seem loosely related at first, but in the last 15% of the book, you will see how necessary these two stories are. Great sci-fi suspense story told in 3 distinct parts. The story begins in the near future with a man who hijacks a time machine and heads off into the future. A mistake leaves him stranded nearly a thousand years further than intended. What he discovers requires a lot of investigation and \"archaeology\" on his part. This is where the story breaks off and tells two other stories. They seem loosely related at first, but in the last 15% of the book, you will see how necessary these two stories are. Great book with beautiful characters. ...more Sci-fi at its best. I could imagine this as a movie someday. Well-written and hard to put down once you pick it up. Great science fiction at an awesome price. Found this gem for only 99 cents on Amazon. Interesting, until it wasn't I think this book started off strong. I knew it was written by a Christian author, but I figured that meant it wouldn't have any foul language or adult scenes, (which aren't all that common in sci-fi books anyway). I don't have any problem with Christian books, but I was taken by surprise when this one went full-on evangelical. I didn't hate it, but after a certain point, I just couldn't wait for it to be over. I wanted to like this book and it started off well, that is to say that the premise the book started with, started well. But the style of writing reminded me of a story I wrote in school not long before I was a teenager, very simplistic, everything solved easily, everything falling into place and very little effort put into developing anything to do with the story, the characters, the background. This book needed one more thing, and that was an editor who could push the author into really develo I wanted to like this book and it started off well, that is to say that the premise the book started with, started well. But the style of writing reminded me of a story I wrote in school not long before I was a teenager, very simplistic, everything solved easily, everything falling into place and very little effort put into developing anything to do with the story, the characters, the background. This book needed one more thing, and that was an editor who could push the author into really developing his writing style. The storyline had so much potential, but was wasted. And was so implausible too. The main protaganist can apparently fly a starship from 1000 years in the future merely with the help of a computer, yet it took a crew of dozens to man the previous identical ship that undertook the voyage. The main protaganist can fly an orbital launcher. He can apparently write code that enables him to travel into the future, but he can't spot that he's sent himself to 3110 rather than 2110 - surely something so important you'd quadruple-check?!! And finally, the big plot hole - where did everyone go? There is a heavy lean on Christianity and the Bible in this book and this didn't bother the agnostic/atheist that I am one bit, but was I supposed to understand that when the 2 worlds turned to shit, everyone was beamed up into Jesus' Lamb Wedding Party thing? The protagonist discovered 2 worlds devoid of evidence of the dead (plus an orbital space station!) so what happened to them all?!! To me, a book is like a big clear warm sea. A really good book will make me don scuba gear and dive deep and immerse myself in it, and I'll really enjoy being in a totally different world where nothing from \"my\" world interferes. This book was like being in a kids inflatable boat skimming the surface. On the plus side, there is a following wind and the book is that simple to read, you can whiz through it relatively quickly. I may read another of the author's books, but based on this story alone I won't be making it a priority. ...more Well. Ultimately I would like to give this five stars, but there are a few reasons why not. First, it's riddled with typos and incorrect grammar. Not as bad as some I have seen, but still annoying. And for a free or 99 cent kindle book, it's fairly forgivable. But the author should have more proofreaders. And his use of \"then\" to create sequence was incorrect grammatically speaking, and the phrase \"grabbed a hold of\" was used ad nauseum. And his use of verb tense was sometimes off kilter. Howeve Well. Ultimately I would like to give this five stars, but there are a few reasons why not. First, it's riddled with typos and incorrect grammar. Not as bad as some I have seen, but still annoying. And for a free or 99 cent kindle book, it's fairly forgivable. But the author should have more proofreaders. And his use of \"then\" to create sequence was incorrect grammatically speaking, and the phrase \"grabbed a hold of\" was used ad nauseum. And his use of verb tense was sometimes off kilter. However, I must say that besides those things, and the fact that the third section bordered on completely uninteresting and some of the plot points were a little contrived (how convenient that Skylar forgot a device that important to his adventure), the book was overall a winner. I must say that the concept was extremely intriguing, the plot fairly well executed, and the message properly conveyed without being preachy. The way the author handled the science, the imaginative aspects of a world set in the 3000s, and the theology of it was quite impressive and interesting. His mild touch on molinism and his non-pushy handling of end times events was something I greatly appreciated. I was captured by the story and how things would unfold. I love sci fi and was impressed from that standpoint. And I love the theological themes from a standpoint most people don't consider. So, I applaud the author and recommend this book. Though be ready to cringe at some plot points and some really bad grammar. ...more I'm impressed with how this author handled a genre as tricky as Christian sci-fi. Seems like no matter what, you're going to let down one camp- either the Christians or the sci-fi fans, but McElhaney did pretty well on both accounts (although I did get a vibe of \"religion is most attractive to the desperate\"). The plot kept tumbling around in my mind days after I finished the book. The events that take place aboard the ship and on the colony are definitely the most interesting parts of this nove I'm impressed with how this author handled a genre as tricky as Christian sci-fi. Seems like no matter what, you're going to let down one camp- either the Christians or the sci-fi fans, but McElhaney did pretty well on both accounts (although I did get a vibe of \"religion is most attractive to the desperate\"). The plot kept tumbling around in my mind days after I finished the book. The events that take place aboard the ship and on the colony are definitely the most interesting parts of this novel. Skylar's story was a bit weird and didn't seem to tie in well with the rest... I would rather have learned what happened to the colony than hear about him meeting his dream girl in the supermarket. ...more This was my first time reading so-called \"Christian fiction\". Based upon this experience, it will also be my last. There was a lot of promise in this story, but the author seemed more concerned with the religious message he tried to interject. There was no resolution of any of the major plot points. A complete waste of time. I am glad that this was a free book, because I would definitely want my money back had I paid for it. Great book Ever want to go on a vacation? This guy did too. His was to be trip to the future. Just 10 years or so. But he messed up and goes a thousand instead. I found this book interesting and a wonderful price This is my first book by <---A>Scott McElhaney</---A> to read. And, I know I will continue on to read the Mystic Saga and others. I wish this could've been expanded to a series, maybe just a trilogy even, because it just seemed to go too quick. Different This book made me think all the way through. It was strange all the way through. The ending was kind of slow and Engaging read Not what I was expecting, but I really enjoyed the story. It kept my interest throughout and had a decent ending that tied things up neatly. Really enjoyable A dystopian future,and one linked in with the Bible along with time travel and warp drive. A really enjoyable read Non stop to the end I was doubtful about Christian science fiction but Scott McElhaney nailed it! I'm looking forward to getting my hands on more by by this author. I enjoyed the read. This is a one-of-a-kind Christian SciFi novel that I can recommend. It is a little unusual in layout, but to read a clean story that is biblically-based is the greatest. Good book, hard to put down. Disappointing ending. :(<---C>Scott McElhaney</---C>", "Title": "Beyond the Event Horizon"},
