{"Comments": "I HAVE ONLY THREE THINGS TO SAY: ONE: THIS BOOK WAS SO-SO-SO FREAKIN' EPIC AND UNPUTDOWNABLE!!!! TWO: PATCH JEV CIPRIANO WAS THE BEST THING THAT EVER HAPPENED TO ME. THREE: I CANNOT WAIT ANOTHER FREAKIN' YEAR FOR THE NEXT BOOK!!! And if you haven't read <+++>Silence</+++> yet... READ IT NOW! Kinda on hold right now. I just got tired of Nora trying to remember things that I already know. This book sucked and I need to write better reviews. Normally I don't write reviews for this series but something just had to be said. <+++>Silence</+++> is probably the worst of the lot of them so far. Not only has Nora,<---M> the protagonist</---M>, transcended illogical she's become fully psychotic. My gripes with this novel don't end at the protagonist, it transcends into the use of obvious plot devices, the insensitive way mental illness was portrayed, the disturbingly light way murder was handled, and the awful writing style. Here, have a breakdown: Nora is an Annoy Normally I don't write reviews for this series but something just had to be said. Silence is probably the worst of the lot of them so far. Not only has Nora, the protagonist, transcended illogical she's become fully psychotic. My gripes with this novel don't end at the protagonist, it transcends into the use of obvious plot devices, the insensitive way mental illness was portrayed, the disturbingly light way murder was handled, and the awful writing style. Here, have a breakdown: Nora is an Annoying, Horrible Person The first third of the book was dedicated to Nora not remembering anything from the past 5 months of her life. She whines and moans constantly about this fact. Now, I understand the sense of loss, trauma and depression that can come out from amnesia, but Nora takes liberties to remind us every single chapter that she is sad because she can't remember anything and anyone who doesn't fall all over themselves to try to help her remember and do what she wants them to is a big meanie and she hates them. There was a passage during one of these chapters that destroyed any sympathy I might have for her plight.<---F> Nora wonders why her</---F>. But she didn't leave it at that, she wonders why her in all the billions of people in the world, SHE had to be the one who got amnesia. Well, excuse me, Nora, last time I checked (unfortunately) bad things happen to people all the time. No one is more or less deserving of having these things happen to them. They just happen. This pattern of annoying, selfish behavior from Nora is constant throughout the book (and somehow amplified from the first two books). She frequently becomes angry with people for little reason, makes completely nonsensical decisions, lies to people she supposedly cares about, purposefully puts herself in danger then blames it on her amnesia and later on blames her poor life decisions on her biological father, and she gets angry whenever someone disagrees with her. It makes her wholly unsympathetic, very annoying, and to add to her list of personality disorders she becomes completely psychotic from the middle of the book onward. And as if knifing me in the back wasn't bad enough, Fitzpatrick goes and gives Nora a happy ending. Thanks for the salt. Nora's a Psycho Now, I understand completely the feelings of anger toward someone who kidnapped you and (from what I read) may have temporarily deprived you of food for a couple of days. But from the middle of the novel, Nora loses all sense of human empathy and actually wishes to murder her captor. Every single time she says she wants to murder this fellow, she has absolutely no sense of remorse, regret, empathy for the guy's family, or second thoughts. It was simply decided by her that this guy must die and that was the end of the conversation. It was very disturbing to read about a sixteen year old girl plotting to murder another person and having absolutely no qualms about it. If a writer wants to write about a completely psychotic protagonist, they are free to. But even the craziest of crazies are written so that the reader can tell the character isn't quite right in the head and that going around murdering people isn't exactly the best way to solve your problems. Fitzpatrick wrote Nora's lust to actually kill her captor like it was a normal, correct choice. Fitzpatrick, your target demographic is young girls. Take some responsibility for what you're writing. No matter whether the other guy is a Nephilim, fallen angel, or human being, he was a sentient creature with feelings, goals, and a life. For your idiotic protagonist to simply write him off as \"I'm just going to kill this guy and it'll solve my problems or make me feel better\" is incredibly irresponsible of you. Anyway, in the end Nora does kill the guy after her and Patch plan to keep him around for eternity to torture (yes, you read it right). And instead of being traumatized or at least feeling BAD that she KILLED A MAN, she goes on to have happy fun times with Patch. Patch is Still the Worst Thing Patch has always been creepy in these books. In the first book, he was sexually harassing Nora like nobody's business. And somehow she fell in love with him anyway. In the second book, he ignored her completely and hurt her emotionally. And she was still in love with him. In this book, HE REQUESTS Nora's memory be wiped as far back as five months to \"protect her\". I don't care what you're try to do, Patch. You STOLE her memories, you idiot. Despite finding out it was really Patch who took so many of her memories, Nora forgives him within a few days. And here I thought she was so upset about it, considering it was all she talked about for over a hundred freaking pages. Often during the book, the only thing that seems to keep Nora from dumping Patch's sorry ass is the fact that he's repeatedly described as \"hot\". In fact, every time Nora goes to touch him, we get a description of his \"toned [insert body part here]\". It was incredibly nauseating and even after three books, two covers with Patch on them, and a graphic novel coming out, I still have absolutely no idea what Patch is supposed to look like--and I don't give a damn. This is because his personality is rotten and every time Fitzpatrick goes to describe the guy I end up rolling my eyes instead of reading the description. The Writing Never Got Better I tried to understand the sloppy plot devices in Hush, Hush because it was Fitzpatrick's first novel. I forgave the elementary prose because these books are aimed at the YA market. But the writing never seemed to get any better between the three books. The style is still generic, often repetitious, and Fitzpatrick seems to be in love with plot devices because Silence is loaded with them. Let me talk about devilcraft, because it will be mentioned about a hundred times in the novel as this vague magic thing that came from hell. Basically devilcraft is capable of being used to do anything from erasing memories, to capturing archangels, to making a grilled cheese sandwich for you. If there was anything in the plot that needed to make sense, but Fitzpatrick didn't introduce it in the first two books, it was \"OMG! Teh Devilcraft!\" It wasn't even hard to pick out as a plot device because it used every damn place Fitzpatrick didn't have an easy way to explain why someone could do something whereas someone else could not. While we're still talking about plot devices, I hope you like the sound of \"mind-tricked\" because it's used even more than devilcraft. Basically in moments when Fitzpatrick can't shoehorn devilcraft to explain something, she'll use mind-tricked. Why do strangers refuse to help Nora when she's clearly in trouble and begs them to? They were mind-tricked. Why is Nora's mother even more useless than normal? She's mind-tricked. Why do I always lose a sock on laundry day? I was mind-tricked. At the end of the book, it is revealed that Nora becomes a full on Nephilim. She bemoans this at first because she thinks Patch will hate her now that she's not a human and Nephilim are the enemies of the Fallen Angels. I found it ridiculous that the only person Nora seems to be concerned about is Patch. She's only known him for five-six months and instead of thinking about how her mother or her best friend will react--two people who have known her for years--she goes off sobbing about how her deeply disturbed boyfriend might not like her anymore. Boo hoo, Nora, you get eternal life and a kick-ass body you don't even have to work for. Excuse me while I don't feel bad that you are pretty much immune to cancer, heart disease, and any other horrible illness that inflicts and kills the rest of us schmucks. With all of this stupidity, do I even need to talk about the sloppy writing style and prose? Here are a few lines you better get used to because Fitzpatrick uses them plenty: His/Her eyes cut to mine/person/object. His eyes contained a [verb] edge. Edges and cuts, you guys! Hope you like them. Secondary Characters: A Mixed Bag of Awful There's really nothing more I can say about Nora's mother being a horrible mother. She's dating a guy that Nora hates and instead of having a bit of sensitivity for her Nora, she goes ahead and does whatever she wants, pushing forward with her love life and seemingly ignoring Nora's needs. Good mothering job, Blythe (ugh, the names in these books). Marcie Millar is made out to be a bitch in the previous books. At least that's what Fitzpatrick wants us to think. Only in this book, she managed to make Marcie out as the most sympathetic character. Here's a teenaged girl whose parents just divorced, found out her father doesn't love her, and that her entire life has been secondary to some idiot girl with a creepy boyfriend. Between Marcie and Nora, despite Marcie's sometimes grating mannerisms SHE was the one who chose to comfort her mother after a divorce. Contrast this with Nora who acted like a huge bitch to her mother, lies to her mother, and at the end of the book leaves her drugged mother at her best friend's house to go sleep over at Patch's place. What the hell is wrong with you, Nora? Despite Vee Sky being obnoxious in the previous two books, she came off significantly better in this one. For two reasons. 1) Vee called out Patch's name. She said what we were all thinking which was essentially, \"isn't Patch a dog's name\"? Yes, Vee. Thank you. 2) She calls out Nora's insane, illogical lust for Patch. She straight up tells Nora that she only sees the 1% of good in Patch and is blind to the 99% of psychopath in him. Thank you again. I found less and less wrong with Vee thanks to these two moments. It's too bad Vee wasn't saying all this from the beginning. Speaking of strangely sympathetic characters, Dabria makes another appearance in this novel. Nora's reaction to her is so outlandishly hostile that every time Nora felt jealous I got annoyed. As a result, I felt really bad for Dabria because the woman wanted to help Patch and willingly did so. Then there's this annoying, psychotic, selfish girl complaining constantly about how jealous she is. The \"funniest\" part was that Dabria tried to kill Nora in Book 1, but that gets mentioned once or twice by Nora compared to the fact that Dabria and Patch used to be a thing. I always knew Nora had messed up priorities, but COME ON. Scott Parnell makes another appearance, though his return itself is a plot device. Basically he shows up, gives Nora an infodump, then lives in a cave. I wish I was kidding about the cave thing. Don't Write About Mental Illnesses, Fitzpatrick I'm no expert about any of this, but even as I read the novel I knew Fitzpatrick understood the conditions even less than me. As a result, the literary treatment of mental illness was incredibly insensitive. Nora herself suffers from PTSD and amnesia. Not only does no one (even the doctor who 'diagnosed' her) know anything about it, but everyone goes out of their way to do the exactly wrong thing. This is including Nora's mother, her friends, and Nora herself. Nora adds to the mess by purposefully making her condition as unsympathetic as possible. There was so much wrong about the writing in this regard. I'm Shutting Up Now So I think I've made this long enough. In the end Silence was much worse than Hush, Hush and Crescendo combined. Nothing happens for the first part of the book. Then Nora falls into Patch's life again and she goes from annoying to completely psychotic. I can't think of a single redeeming thing in this entire novel and if I could rate it any less than a 1 out of 5, I'd like to. ...more The summary for this book is ridiculous. How can she get more drawn to Patch? This is like a bad teen soap opera. And to think i was excited for the second book. A third book? Yay? I <3 Patch. Cannot wait, Fall 2011 is just too far away. What the WTF?! I have to wait til October?!!! I.HAVE.TO.READ.IT.NOW!!! Aw, I will hate this one. There are books you just love to hate.. (And this got 4 likes. Nice!) *sigh* ___________________________ READING DIARY Note: I wrote a recap & watch-me-rant part for every of the 3 parts below. 1. Prologue - Chapter 6 2. Chapter 7 - 22 3. Chapter 23 - 34 Prologue - Chapter 6 I expected something way worse. The writing was bad, but it wasn't as boring as I thought and I wanted to rant too much to instantly throw the book away. Nora's lost all her memories and has been missing Aw, I will hate this one. There are books you just love to hate.. (And this got 4 likes. Nice!) *sigh* ___________________________ READING DIARY Note: I wrote a recap & watch-me-rant part for every of the 3 parts below. 1. Prologue - Chapter 6 2. Chapter 7 - 22 3. Chapter 23 - 34 Prologue - Chapter 6 I expected something way worse. The writing was bad, but it wasn't as boring as I thought and I wanted to rant too much to instantly throw the book away. Nora's lost all her memories and has been missing for 11 weeks. The initial situation when she wakes up/ Recap : She's been kidnapped, her biological father's the kidnapper, also currently dating her mother and forcing Patch to do his dirty work/be a spy. He took Patch's wings (they bargained), made Nora forget everything and got a divorce. Hank's also the former body-host of Rixon and Marcie's dad. Aaand this is when Nora's waking up without any memories left. She can't remember what happened to her, who Patch and what the supernatural stuff is. She thinks it's April when in reality it's September. AND her abduction happened in June. Although most people forgot Rixon, it seems they all remember Patch.. and don't tell her anything about him. --> Watch me rant: They say Nora has PTSD and her doctor said that she could hear stuff that others don't hear. Which, obviously, would mean that her subconsciousness'd try to tell her what happened with shizophrenic episodes. Now, my problem with that isn't that they all presume she has PTSD, my problem is how she's dealing with it and that there's no one who says something intelligent, sympathetic etc. about it. The whole situation should've been portrayed differently. This way it's just frustrating and makes the actual disorder look horrible/the people who have it insane . Fitzpatrick - Next to 90 years of womens rights movement, we could actually just start treating people who suffer from clinical depressions with electroshocktherapy from the beginning on. Next point. Her mother. God, is that woman stupid. There is one scene I could talk about endlessly, because.. well, it's just very stupid. But first this: \u201cHe said I might\u00a0hallucinate?\u201d (..) I felt the sting of tears, but I refused to cry. Why me? Of all the billions of people out there,\u00a0why me?\u00a0Who did this to me? My mind was spinning in circles, trying to point a finger at someone, but I didn\u2019t have a face, a voice. I didn\u2019t have one shred of an idea. Well, Nora. Yes. Why you? First of all, there is no reason. Bad things happen to good people, good things might happen to good people, too. Whatever. So stop asking, because fate's a bitch and she doesn't care about you at all. Probably because you think being a bitch is something bad, but whatever, right? Right. So, let's pretend that there are reasons. Let's pretend somewhere out there fate's sitting on her bed with a list in her hand, deciding who gets to get kidnapped. Now, I don't think your personality does justify something as bad as kidnapping, but you are a very annoying, naive, stupid girl. You make me angry and the fact that you'll get your happy ending makes me even more angry, because you're a book-character and fate, in your case, has a name. <---A>Becca Fitzpatrick</---A>. And I wonder why she thinks that a person such as yourself, being annoying and all, could ever attract an angel and why she'd tell her readers that being in love with your almost-murderer isn't so bad after all. Remember this video ? Now, obviously he didn't beat you up, but what's this shit? Yes. Then, the next Noras mother-situation and one thing where I can actually understand both of them- Mother of Nora's dating Hank Miller. Nora doesn't like that one bit. Mother's trying to explain that Hank is not Marcie, that he was there for her and that she does feel enough guilt already for going on with life. And damn, she is right. But, Hank is the bad guy. So, what does this tell the reader? Bwa, does that make me sick, seriously. Why can't Nora's mother date another guy, someone Nora doesn't like at all and then is proven wrong? Nope. She has to date someone Nora doesn't like and is actually right about. Awesome. -_-' Oh and, wtf is wrong with her mom, not getting that Nora's just come back. Everyone continued life in some way and she's back, thrown into the whole thing, not remembering.. And she also has to deal with her mom dating a guy she doesn't even like and is told to be sympathetic? Um, NO. Mother of Nora, you obviously are one sick fuck. You don't want your daughter to go to school, because that's too much? Wrong. Most people do need everyday-life. But you don't know that and it's okay, because most people don't and you're right about it this time, because Nora really can't handle it. She just jumps right back into school, she could be a sleeper for all we know and kill all her classmates as soon as the TETRIS theme's playing, but well, who cares, right? But anyways, so you think she shouldn't deal with that, but you want her to deal with your lovelife? Yeaah.. But you know, the funny thing is that Marcie's there for her mother after the divorce. Isn't it weird? I mean, isn't she such a bitch? And what she says about Nora and the things that happened to her? Fitzpatrick tries so hard to make her this evil bitch, when the truth is that Marcie's the only one in the book I could particularly like. \u201cWe should order pizza and watch movies tonight,\u201d one of them said. \u201cNo can do, girls. It\u2019s just me and Susanna tonight.\u201d I recognized the voice as belonging to Marcie Millar. She was in the middle of the lineup, tidying her strawberry blond side ponytail, pinning it in place with a pink plastic flower. \u201cYou\u2019re ditching us for your mom? Um,\u00a0ouch?\u201d \u201cUm,\u00a0yes. Deal with it,\u201d Marcie said. YAY GIRL! Seriously. Of course this was too nice and also just a little prelude to talk about her mother, the divorce and Nora. Marcie doesn't know her father and Nora's mom are dating. Neither does she know that she and Nora are siblings (Nora forgot, too) So, here goes the rest: (..) \u201cDon\u2019t even start,\u201d Marcie said, but the smile in her voice clearly stated she was flattered by their disappointment. \u201cMy mom needs me. Girls\u2019 night out.\u201d \u201cIs she \u2026 you know \u2026 depressed?\u201d the girl I believed to be Addyson asked. \u201cSeriously?\u201d\u00a0Marcie laughed. \u201cShe got to keep the house. She\u2019s still a member of the yacht club. Plus she made my dad buy her a Lexus SC10. It\u2019s\u00a0sooo\u00a0cute! And I swear half the single guys in town have already called or stopped by.\u201d Marcie ticked each item off on her fingers so fluidly it made me think she\u2019d been rehearsing this speech. \u201cShe\u2019s so beautiful.\u201d Cassie sighed. \u201cExactly. Whoever my dad hooks up with will be a major downgrade.\u201d \u201cIs\u00a0he seeing anybody?\u201d \u201cNot yet. My mom has friends all over. Somebody would have seen something. So,\u201d she transitioned with a gossipy voice, \u201cdid you guys see the news? About <---C>Nora Grey</---C>?\u201d My knees went a little soft at the mention of my name, and I flattened a hand to the wall for support. \u201cThey found her in the cemetery, and they\u2019re saying she can\u2019t remember anything,\u201d Marcie went on. \u201cI guess she\u2019s so messed up she even ran from the police. She thought they were trying to\u00a0hurther.\u201d \u201cMy mom said she was probably brainwashed by her kidnapper,\u201d Cassie said. \u201cLike some skeezy guy could have made her think they were married.\u201d \u201cEw!\u201d they all said in unison. \u201cWhatever happened, she\u2019s damaged goods now,\u201d Marcie said. \u201cEven if she says she can\u2019t remember anything, she knows what happened subconsciously. She\u2019s going to be dragging around that baggage for the rest of her life. She might as well wrap herself in yellow tape that says, \u2018Stay out and do not cross.\u2019\u201d They giggled. Then Marcie said, \u201cBack to class, girlies. I\u2019m clean out of late passes. The secretaries keep locking them in their drawers. Whores.\u201d Yes. Rude. But at least, she's honest. And she isn't so wrong either. Well, Nora isn't damaged goods now , if she is damaged goods then imo she's always been. Whatever happened to her can either destroy her or make her stronger, so.. no. Being kidnapped, raped or whatever doesn't make you damaged goods, but it does change you, even or maybe especially when you can't remember what's actually happened. And Marcie is damn right about that one. Some other things that have the potential to make me rant: 1. Why did she get out of her bed when she's told not to? 2. Why does Patch behave the way he did in the dream? - Almost okay, because he made her forget it later and kind of did it only for himself. Then again, why didn't he go further? Too wishy-washy, too easy, too lazy. 3. What's up with Vee? 4. Why is everything so bleh? (Writing style, eg. the lazy writer-things, such as the dream) ___________________________ Chapter 7 - Chapter 22 Recap: She has dinner with her mom and Hank, where she also meets Marcie, who tells her that Patch's been her summer fling and a common friend (but not that he's also Nora's boyfriend/exboyfriend). She asks Nora to find some necklace.. More about that scene later. Nora gets almost sick when she sees their parents and gets out of the restaurant where she meets Patch for the first time in person. (Oh and before I forget to mention it- Her mother and Vee both remember him and both don't tell Nora about him for different reasons.) She doesn't remember him at first. Both times they meet she almost gets killed, the first time he introduces himself with a different name. She then meets Scott, who tells her what Nephilim are, who he is, who she is, who Patch is (but he doesn't know that Patch and the guy from the night before are the same). He also reveals to her that Hank is the big Bad and shows off plus flirts a little. They try to get into one of Hanks warehouses, but fail and he then leaves town, because he fears that someone found out who he was. Nora then decides to get back to the warehouse, where she meets Patch again. The second time they meet he doesn't tell her who he is either at first, but later starts pushing and flirting with her, leading her to his home when they're being targeted by some of the Nephilim and there letting her touch his scars, which enables her to relive/visit some of his memories. --> Watch me rant: 1. Almost every 2nd or 3rd sentence of Patch could start with 'Dear Reader'. For example: \u201cWe can\u2019t outrun them to the Tahoe, and even if we could, I\u2019m not dragging you into a car chase with Nephilim. DEAR READER They\u2019ll walk away from a rolled or totaled car, but you might not. Better to take our chances on foot and circle back to the car after they\u2019ve given up. There\u2019s a nightclub a block from here. Not the cleanest place, but we can hide there.\u201d Think about how many trees would still live or how many other books could have been printed on the recycled paper if Fitzpatrick had cut those scenes, because this was one of the least stupid ones and there have been lots of them. But, to be honest, I can see that sometimes there's a need to explain certain things.. So, strike the tree-thing. Think about how many brain cells would still live or at least how much easier Silence'd be to read if she had written it differently. 2. You're not Edward, Patch. - I'm sorry to tell you, but you really aren't. And it's not working either, because we all know you don't feel physical sensations that way. For example: \u201cCould you teach me?\u201d \u201cIf I taught you everything I know, we\u2019d need a considerable amount of time alone together.\u201d Unsure if he was suggesting anything, I said, \u201cI\u2019m sure we could keep it \u2026 professional.\u201d \u201cSpeak for yourself,\u201d he said in that same steady tone that made it hard to guess his intentions. This is one of the okay-sentences, but there have been some.. Urgh. :-! Seriously, I get that if you love someone you like to please them even if you get nothing back and I'm sure it's nice and all. But this? She didn't even remember him back then and he pushed her into remembering or at least feeling something for him. Of course, in one of his other DEAR READER-speeches he explained that Hank promised to be out of Nora's life and he didn't, so Patch didn't feel the need to stay out of hers either and anyways, he's in love with her and all. Blahblah. My problem is that what he says doesn't match what he does. And most of the times what he says at first doesn't match what he says later, either. So, it just felt like Fitzpatrick tried to create some romantic/hot scenes a la City of Ashes or Twilight and ended up with something that was as hot as Breaking Dawn, but not because there was nothing present, that could have been hot, but because it wasn't believable at all (and well, not hot.. BUT present) Also, in a moment of utter brilliance, I read one of the Patch and Nora dialogues out loud. Hilarious. If you have the book, try it. 3. Plot and characters. They're just annoying. I pointed out some things before and I still feel that way. The best part yet was when Nora, her mom and Hank are at the restaurant and Marcie and her mother are there, too. It really is. The rest? Bullshit. I wouldn't even like Marcie that much in another book, but in Silence? -sigh- ___________________________ Chapter 23 - Chapter 34 Recap: What was the last thing that happened? Ah right, Nora was at Patch's, he told her about Daria, another ex-angel and also ex-lover. She got home, Hank was waiting for her. Marcie declared Nora her charity case, asked her to buy a dress and that's it, I think. Okay, so chapter 23 started with Scott coming back. He wore this weird ring again and he feels this compulsion to go to Hank, although he wouldn't admit it. He also wants to be her Prom date and she agrees. He later asks her to be at a concert, because he now is in a band. When Nora and Marcie are dress-shopping someone steals Nora's bag, probably another try to get the necklace that Hank needs to make the Archangel spill the truth. I'm not sure about the next events (which happens first), but when Nora's in school Hank's there and tells her that her mom had an accident. He compells her to go with him and they have an accident. Three Nephilim run them down the street, but Hank makes it look like they were fallen angels, trying to get back at him, when the truth was that he pumped his blood into Nora, because he wants her of all people to be his heir when he dies (two differenct sources told him his future..) She wakes up in the hospital, six hours later and doesn't remember anything but the accident. She can't meet her mom, either, and goes home with Hank, who stays at her home, too. Patch meets her in one of her dreams and she tells him what happened. He then meets her in person and they almost have sex, but then Hank appears in her room. Patch already disappeared, but Hank noticed it was him. Nora is also at a party \u2013 the concert where Scott has his gig \u2013 and there comes across Daria. There she also sees one or more of the Nephilim who were involved in the car accident, Scott runs off, she meets Patch, then tells him to wait for her and gets to see Vee. She also mentiones Patch to Vee and they have this big fight. (More about that later) Patch picks her up, they go to his place, almost have sex, his ex appears and mentions Hank. She and Patch leave, Nora promises to stay hidden. Scott calls and needs help, she breaks her promise and helps him, the Nephilim get them, Hank makes a deal with her. She's full with his blood and has to become a full-blooded Nephilim, be the leader of his army or she and her mother both die. (More about that one later, too) She swears, gets out, finds Patch. He rescued the angel and made a deal with them, they want Hank dead and Nora to stop the war. (as the leader of the army) She faces Hank and tells him she won't kill him (which the angels want her and Patch to) but he then almost kills Patch and she's forced to.. They get back to Patch's where they could have had sex.. but of course don't do anything like that. -sigh- She then meets Scott in front of her house with two Nephilim who tell her that she has to be the leader and that she can't just tell the Nephilim there won't be war, because there will be one and she has to face it and get as much Nephilim to listen to her as possible. And that's it. --> Watch me rant: 1. Vee and her fight. It's a little like with her mom. I could get both of their sides. Vee lied to her and didn't want Nora to remember Patch. I'd be angry, too and I think Vee didn't have the right to decide. BUT I could get what she thought about him. I also highlighted my favorites in this conversation: I strove for composure. Angry or not, I could be rational. \u201cYou lied, Vee. You looked me in the eye and lied. I\u2019d believe it of my mom, but not you.\u201d I pushed the door open. \u201cHow were you going to explain yourself when I got my memory back?\u201d I demanded suddenly. \u201cI hoped you wouldn\u2019t get it back.\u201d Vee threw her hands in the air. \u201c There. I said it. You were better off without it, if it meant not remembering that freak show. You don\u2019t think straight when you\u2019re around him. It\u2019s like you see the one percent of him thatmight\u00a0be good and miss the other ninety-nine percent of pure psychopathic evil! \u201d My jaw fell open. \u201cAnything else?\u201d I snapped. \u201cNope. That sums up my feelings pretty adequately on the subject.\u201d I shot out of the car and slammed the door. Vee rolled down her window and poked her head out. \u201cWhen you come back to your senses, you have my number!\u201d she called out. 2. He wants HER to be the leader? Lazy. Lazy explanation, lazy way to make sure there was a 4th novel and really, it didn't match his earlier behaviour, because although he didn't know back then that he might die, he did try to kill her. He later genuinely seemed to care a little about Nora, which is just blah. It also seems that many authors always use the sacrifice-card. 'Do that, or I'll kill your [friend/relative/pet]' 3. What's this shit about the evil boyfriends? No, no, I am not even talking about Patch. I mean.. first Vees boyfriends. But she's on boy detox this book, as she called it. Apparently Fitzpatrick read some of the less good reviews and noticed that it was annoying. Unfortunately she just switched the 'victim'. This time, Nora's mom got the evil guy. Well, wow. Big improvement. -sigh- 4. Why was she jealous? AGAIN? Boring and unbeliavable. Blah. Why does Patch even want her when she's constantly questioning him after he's proven her wrong again and again? (I understood her earlier, but now? Nope.) Of course, I never got why he wanted her in the first place..* 5. She's immortal now? Seriously? I can't even.. ___________________________ There are so many other things, I don't know.. This was just a very, very hilarious read and I'm excited to read all the other reviews. :) * Added: This does not mean I like Patch. But he is, thank the heavens, not the narrator of this most wonderful tale, and if I started ranting about him, you could move the heavens and I'd continue to rant as I stared at your feat. ...more I am so so so very disappointed....... in myself! I promised that I wasn't going to read any more of this series. I swore to myself that I was through, but then, there it was on the library shelf, taunting me with it's dark cover promising drama and romance. And against my better judgement,I broke the promise and let the eye-rolling and suffering begin. I have no one to blame but me. So, here we again have Nora who in this book becomes the definition of too stupid to live and I don't say that lig I am so so so very disappointed....... in myself! I promised that I wasn't going to read any more of this series. I swore to myself that I was through, but then, there it was on the library shelf, taunting me with it's dark cover promising drama and romance. And against my better judgement,I broke the promise and let the eye-rolling and suffering begin. I have no one to blame but me. So, here we again have Nora who in this book becomes the definition of too stupid to live and I don't say that lightly. She wakes up with total amnesia of the past five months, eleven weeks of which she's been missing. Ooh, what happened to Nora? Honestly, who cares because let me remind you, she is truly too stupid to live. The first night home fter being released from the hospital, she sneaks out and returns to the cemetery where she awakened because ... I have no idea why. My best guess is that she enjoys a sliver of fear slithering down her spine or some such drama. She tells herself that it's to search for clues or jog her memory. Uh-huh. Does she find out anything? Nope. Now, I don't know about you, but if I've just been released or escaped an abduction in which who-knows-who did who-knows-what to me, I'm not immediately or anytime in the foreseeable future going to go prowling around by myself in the dark. I'm going to hide and hope that whoever took me doesn't find me. In other words I'm going to hide under my bed with the door locked and the curtains closed hoping with everything I have that the abductor will not come after me. There's a lot more like this. Nora trying to figure out what happened, not trying at all to keep herself safe, trying to foil what she assumes is a robbery that she happens upon, being rescued by the broodingly handsome Jev/Patch whom she doesn't remember, but has these flashes of black that she enjoys. Don't ask. Then she meets Scott whom she just trusts completely even though he followed her to a isolated beach where she's completely alone because he tells her that he knows her. Oh, I see, well, that makes perfect sense. She has no idea if he is good or bad but since she supposedly, according to Scott , knows him and he's all muscley and hot, it's all okey-dokey. Scott has been hiding but they make plans for him to take Nora to the homecoming dance where she's been nominated by Marcie, her long-time nemesis, for being an attendent. This is totally unimportant, useless information but I thought I'd include this anyway, much like Fitzpatrick does, here it is. And here's the thing about this whole dance thing. Scott is trying to hide or so he says and who does that? If I'm hiding, I'm not going to some dance nor am I playing a gig in a club. I'm going to be under my bed with the door locked and the curtains closed. I'm going to do everything I can so that no one will find me. Otherwise I'm a pretty bad hider. Guess playing hide and seek with Scott would have been a cakewalk. \"Um, Scott, I see you standing right there. Do we need to go over the whole 'you hide and I try to find you' thing again? You're supposed to be waiting for the Olly olly oxen free before you show yourself.\" Sorry, got myself off on a tangent there. Enough about Scott. So, anyway, we find out that when Nora was kidnapped, her brain was wiped clean and that dear Patch, love of her life and all around hottie, asked her kidnapper that he wipe just a little bit more of her memories so it would be like he never met her. He's trying to pull an Edward Cullen, folks! And this is a guy who loves Nora. Wow, evil bad dude, would you be so kind as to mess up my girlfriend's brain for me? And the best part of all of this is that you get to spend over half of the book re-hashing what went on in the first two books. Fitzpatrick, you brilliant bookseller you. Think of the possibilities. Just think of it. If you're writing a series and you suddenly decide you've painted yourself into a corner, have your protagonist get amnesia and you can rewind and restart the whole thing. It's so smart that I just know it's a trend that will catch on and think of the possibilities. A series that's perhaps three books could be extended to six as you retread what you've already done and then, when you are almost at the denouement, you can do it again, another bonk on the head or brain-messing and tah-dah, more books. From a purely selling standpoint, it's pure genius. From a reader's standpoint, it's rubbish. And who's to blame??? Me. Just Me. I did this to myself. Think I'll have my brain wiped. ...more Silence can be summed up in one meme: Bad Decision #1 Upon waking up in a graveyard with no memory of how she got there or what had transpired, Nora kicks the shin of the first person who tries to help her and blunders away, possibly increasing the chances of running into her captors. Now normally, this a very sound reaction and fits in with Stranger Danger, but this is Nora we're talking about. She'd suspect the toaster of doing her in if it burned her toast. Bad Decision #36 After coming home from Silence can be summed up in one meme: Bad Decision #1 Upon waking up in a graveyard with no memory of how she got there or what had transpired, Nora kicks the shin of the first person who tries to help her and blunders away, possibly increasing the chances of running into her captors. Now normally, this a very sound reaction and fits in with Stranger Danger, but this is Nora we're talking about. She'd suspect the toaster of doing her in if it burned her toast. Bad Decision #36 After coming home from the hospital, she goes back to said graveyard alone to look for \"answers\". Bad Decision #95 Breaking into a Nephilim hideout with no prior planning and with a dude she has no memory of. Bad Decision #187 Goes back to the Nephilim hideout alone after nearly getting caught last time. Bad Decision #672 Getting back together with Patch or Jev or whatever the hell his name is. Nora:\u201cFine! I'll throw on some clothes. Turn around. I'm in my pj's\" Patch:\"I'm a guy. That's like asking a kid not to glance at the candy counter.\u201d What a keeper, ladies and gentleman. I can imagine court proceedings going like this: Judge: Defense, how do you plead to these cases of sexual assault and rape? Patch: Well, your Honor, they were wearing really short skirts and I just couldn't help myself. A man has needs. By the way, can I get your phone number? This is also a guy who erased his girlfriend's memories without first asking Nora if, I don't know, she might want to keep them . I agree with the rest of the world that Nora shouldn't be allowed to choose her own breakfast cereal without supervision, but that's not his decision. They're her fucking memories. But, oh no, it's for her own good. Me powerful man, and you weakling woman. Now go to the kitchen and make me a sandwich! And three books in, and I still can't figure out why an all-powerful angel would name himself after a dog. It's like Satan going incognito as Fluffy. Bad Decision #1753 Worrying about Daria, a potential ally, stealing her man when there's a maniac going around starting a war. \"What does she look like?\" And now I'd stooped from insecure to superficial. \"Stringy unwashed hair, doughy around the middle, unibrow.\" [...] I wondered if that translated to curvy and gorgeous with the brains of an astrophysicist. It's so reassuring that the fate of the world is resting on this girl's shoulders. Then she has the audacity to be infuriated when Daria turns out to be a bombshell and possesses more brains in her pinky nail than Nora has in her entire body. \"He's over you, just so we're clear.\" He chose me, not you, so obviously I'm the better person, because every woman's self-worth comes from a man! Um, have you ever thought about bettering yourself, Nora? In The Iron Queen , Meghan asked Ash to train her in swordplay and Puck to teach her how to use Summer magic, even though it made her physically ill. All so she could contribute to upcoming conflicts and not have to rely on others to save her ass all the time. Nora simply goes, \"I don't want to fight,\" then whines when Patch goes to fight the bad guy alone. You are a liability, Nora. Face fucking facts. Bad Decision #6953 Fainting during crucial moments. \"...I felt myself swaying, swaying. Falling into nothing. I was unconscious before I hit the ground\" \"The last thing I remembered was the roar of air past my ears and the world crashing to black.\" I wonder if it's due to her iron deficiency that was mentioned in the first book and never makes a reappearance hence forth. Bad Decision #10985 Waaay too obsessed with smells. \"It held the slightest trace of mint and black pepper.\" \"He wasn't wearing cologne, but there was an intriguing hint of fresh-cut grass and rainwater...\" \"Leather, spice, mint.\" Does she just like randomly press her nose up against strangers and inhale? Technically Not a Bad Decision, But Nora Acting Like a Bitch #245607 After Nora gets out of the hospital, her mom instates a no-visitor rules, so she can rest. But precious little Nora thinks this is child abuse and agrees with Vee when she says her mom is a \"witch\". Um, hello? How 'bout some respect? That is the woman who raised you single-handedly after your dad died. If someone called my mom a witch, I'd slap them back into their mother's womb. Then she finds out that her mom's dating her supposed archenemy's dad and throws a whiny fit: \"What do you want me to say? That I'm happy for you? I'm not. We used to make fun of the Millers. We used to joke that Marcie's attitude problem was mercury poisoning due to all the expensive seafood their family are. And now you're dating him?\" Because *gasp* how dare she not stay faithful to her dead dad that's been gone for years? How dare she not base her dating options around my life? Grow the fuck up, Nora. Technically Not a Bad Decision, But Nora Acting Like a Bitch #8763012 Remember Vee? Poor Vee, who is constantly weight-shamed and put down by Nora? Well, she's at it again: \"And then I'm going out with Vee for doughnuts or whatever junk food she happens to crave today.\" \"I've sworn off guys. If I need romance, that's what Netflix is for.\" I'll believe it when I see it, I thought with a smirk.\" And the crowning jewel: \"I was a little worried what Vee and I would talk about...but I reassured myself that that was what made Vee and me do compatible. I could strategically steer our conversations by raising certain subjects and Vee could blather on forever about them. \" To think I've been using the word 'compatible' wrong all these years. Bad Decision #136895389 This entire book. We spend so much time learning shit that we already know from the previous two books. \"The memories were splintered and damaged, but they were there. I'd learned all this before.\" I get it. It's a Twilight knock-off, so it has to have four books, even though it has less substance than a tissue. It has to be called a saga, even though it's as much of a saga as a salami is to a brick. We all know I'm going to read Finale. I didn't slough through 1000+ pages of crap only to give up on the winning lap. Stay tuned, darlings. Bonus Writing Tip! \"He watched the angel's face darken as if with blood.\" Now replace 'blood' with something else: pudding, sap, blueberry jam. \"As if\" suggests anything can run through an angel's veins. Go wild, everyone. ...more EW! What a shit cover! I'll read this on one condition: Vee dies in a quick and violent death. LOL jk, I'll read it either way. I can't wait for it! Buuuuuuut, I still wouldn't mind Vee dying... OH MY GOD! This was amazing! After reading Crescendo and being left with the world's worst cliffhanger, I dreaded having to wait a year for the final book of the series. But as Friday came along and I FINALLY snagged my copy, a few interesting things happened. 1) I learned that there was going to be a FOURTH BOOK! IT CONTINUES! MORE PATCH! XDDD 2) I finally read the synopsis. For a whole year I did not even click on the page of Silence. No idea why. 3) My eternal love for Patch grew tenfold. Nuff s OH MY GOD! This was amazing! After reading Crescendo and being left with the world's worst cliffhanger, I dreaded having to wait a year for the final book of the series. But as Friday came along and I FINALLY snagged my copy, a few interesting things happened. 1) I learned that there was going to be a FOURTH BOOK! IT CONTINUES! MORE PATCH! XDDD 2) I finally read the synopsis. For a whole year I did not even click on the page of Silence. No idea why. 3) My eternal love for Patch grew tenfold. Nuff said. This book was fantastic! The first book will always be my favorite because of how they first met but Silence definitely surpassed my expectations. I was not crazy about Crescendo even though it was well written but this book...argh it killed me. In a really good way. I was surprised by how different Nora was. The changes in her made me sad but at the same time, they made her stronger. I mean, for god sakes she had amnesia. And I have to say, she went through so much pain and drama when really, all she wanted to do was be with Patch. Now before I start spewing I love Patch speeches I must say how much I DESPISE Hank Millar, a.k.a. Marcie's dad. After everything he did, I kept thinking 'Okay but Nora's still his daughter. It can't possibly get any worst.' Nope! Hank is a bastard and he deserved what he got in the end. He is plain and simple a monster. Now...Patch. Jev. Sex god almighty. God how I dream you were real. You are just so perfect. Yes, he does have a lot of secrets still but I fully trust him after the last book's fiasco. He just loves Nora so much and this book really proves it. Not so much in the first quarter of the book, but definitely later. I will enjoy reading his sexiness yet again. I found myself annoyed yet again with Vee. Usually, I fall in love with the main character's partner in crime but I just couldn't do it. Vee is just too much. I tried to like her in the book and at first I really did. But then all I saw was a lie. And then another lie. And then another lie. Marcie...there's just no hope for this girl. Inside, I was hoping she was going to change but it seemed almost pathetic how easily she was manipulated. I do like Nora's mom. At first she bugged me with her indifference, but then I realized how much of a victim she was in this whole messed up situation. Overall I LOVED this book. The plot was amazing, fast paced, and well written. And the romance...yum! I unfortunately read the book too fast because I was so excited to read it and now I am dreading the fact that I will have to wait another damn year for the (final?) book in the series. I'm honestly glad this isn't the end even though I feel writers do draw out series too much. But after reading Silence, I have complete faith in Fitzpatrick. I only wish the due date came faster! Rating: 5 out of 5 Stars ...more i can't wait for this book i loooooved hush hush, i sooo fell in love with patch, read crescendo but i have to say i was a little disappointed with nora, she gets pushed around way to much and she just takes it, i read crecendo and finished it within 2 days and i love the way B. Fitzpatrick always make you think that you know exactly what gonna happen and then she turns the book upside down, its great! im looking farward to this book but also looking farward to nora growing some balls and sticki i can't wait for this book i loooooved hush hush, i sooo fell in love with patch, read crescendo but i have to say i was a little disappointed with nora, she gets pushed around way to much and she just takes it, i read crecendo and finished it within 2 days and i love the way B. Fitzpatrick always make you think that you know exactly what gonna happen and then she turns the book upside down, its great! im looking farward to this book but also looking farward to nora growing some balls and sticking up for herself, i mean yeh she acts all hard and mighty strong with patch but when it comes to marcy miller she is a doormat. oct 2011 is a long way to wait.... i'm counting the days ...more I. NEED. TO. WAIT. UNTIL. FREAKING. OCTOBER?!?!?!!?! Not fair at all! That's like a whole freaking year! I NEED THIS BOOK NOOOOOOOOOOWW! \u201cFine! I'll throw on some clothes. Turn around. I'm in my pj's\" \"I'm a guy. That's like asking a kid not to glance at the candy counter.\u201d (Nora and Patch quote.) Oh, yeah, because, hell, why expect guys not to peep at you while you're changing? That's just ridiculous. They're like children, you see. And you're like candy for him. They can't help themselves, don't be stupid. THEY R MENZZ. DUHHHH. I'm officially offended on behalf of males everywhere. No way am I reading this shit. Not even for the \u201cFine! I'll throw on some clothes. Turn around. I'm in my pj's\" \"I'm a guy. That's like asking a kid not to glance at the candy counter.\u201d (Nora and Patch quote.) Oh, yeah, because, hell, why expect guys not to peep at you while you're changing? That's just ridiculous. They're like children, you see. And you're like candy for him. They can't help themselves, don't be stupid. THEY R MENZZ. DUHHHH. I'm officially offended on behalf of males everywhere. No way am I reading this shit. Not even for the lulz. ...more Ahhhh, don't you just love it when your half-angel/sexual predator/douchebag as well as your part time boyfriend takes you in your arms and is about to throw you into a tempestuous ocean during a storm while he wears fake wings like gender-bended Tinkerbell while your hair fans out as if you are in a Pantene advert? Oh the memories still make me weak at the knees(!) :') If they don't find a way to make gorgeous Nephilim babies in the last book, I'll cry. OCTOBER!!! NOOO!!!! MY LITTLE HEART JUST BROKE 3 DAMMIT! THIS IS TORTURE! I NEED TO READ IT NOW!! Read this entire book on my recent trip to Tampa. Still liking Patch a lot. Love the idea of the angel feather. Wasn't prepared for some of the things going on. Surprises around every corner. The cover is brilliant. Sometimes I like to just stare at it. \u201cYou're mine, Angel. And I'm yours. Nothing can change that.\u201d \u2015 Becca Fitzpatrick, Silence NOTE : I understand how hard it is to read criticisms of your work; something you've put your heart and soul into to write, and then publish. And I understand why you, Becca Fitzpatrick, did that whole \"be nice\" thing. In a way, it makes sense to take the author's emotions into account. I bet that any author would be obsessively searching for critiques of their books day in and day out, and can imagine the b \u201cYou're mine, Angel. And I'm yours. Nothing can change that.\u201d \u2015 Becca Fitzpatrick, Silence NOTE : I understand how hard it is to read criticisms of your work; something you've put your heart and soul into to write, and then publish. And I understand why you, Becca Fitzpatrick, did that whole \"be nice\" thing. In a way, it makes sense to take the author's emotions into account. I bet that any author would be obsessively searching for critiques of their books day in and day out, and can imagine the blows to your self-esteem when you find a horrible, \"nasty\" review. Which is why I'm warning you not to read the rest of this. Because I don't want to hurt your feelings in any way. ... ... I'm supposed to be studying for my finals, but couldn't stifle the urge to come on here and make a few points about Silence, the third book in the Hush, Hush series. Okay. So. A few weeks ago, I was walking through Waterstones with my best friend, randomly roaming the shelves. I wasn't looking for anything specifically, but have found that the best books I've come across are the ones I STUMBLE across. So I let fate, destiny, or whatever do its thing. We were nearing the YA section. This used to be one of my favourite genres of literature, but recent disappointments and pure FAILS have dampened my love for it. So I hardly blinked an eye when all these books like Twilight and CoFA and Ash swam past my vision. But then I saw Silence. This was around October/November time last year. Literally the whole STACK of copies seemed to have disappeared. There was only one copy left; the compulsory, not-for-sale-but-for-display one to show prospective buyers what they had in-store. I called for my friend to halt, and picked up that copy. When I cracked open the spine, and flicked to the \"copyrights\" page, I was shocked to find that the book had been published IN THAT SAME MONTH, and had ALREADY pretty much sold out. AGH! HOW IS THAT EVEN POSSIBLE?? I BET EVEN TWILIGHT WASN'T THIS POPULAR!! What is it about this series, about Patch and Nora, which draws thousands of readers in? Surely it's not any of the laughable \"mysteries\" Becca Fitzpatrick attempts to throw in every volume? And it can't be because of Nora; the heroine who is not a heroine after all, but merely a WET, LIMP SLICE OF LETTUCE WHICH IS IN FACT ONLY IMPERSONATING NORA. Could the lure be PATCH??? Because, let's face it; other than the whole sexual-freak/future-rapist thing, there is a kind of appeal about him, right? I mean, if you were a psychopathic, idiotic, sex-driven, sadomachistic FOOL, that is. Like NORA, THE LIMP, WET LETTUCE IN DISGUISE. I could understand the hype over the first book, because the cover and premise drew me in, as well. *shrugs* I love me some fallen angel, too, you know? But the SECOND BOOK? AND NOW THE THIRD?? WHAT IS THE APPEAL??? Though I'm asking myself as much as I'm asking you. I've read the first two, and have no doubt that I will be readin the third. I just won't be buying it. Or ordering it online, or from the library. I'll let destiny do its thing. What will be, will be. (On a side note; from the quotes I've seen from the book so far, I am under the impression there's gonna be a new character..JEV, is it? Or is Jev just Patch, but with some kind of memory-loss? I have no clue. But one Patch is MORE than enough, peeps. We can't handle ANOTHER sex-mad, lust-driven sociopath. Not me, anyway. I value my sanity. And the dialogue has gone down the drain as well, from what I've seen(see opening quote). Huh? What? Who even TALKS like that? Why must these authors make everything so unrelatable for us? None of the boys in MY life have ever spouted anything as cheesy and luvey-duvey as that. EVER. Give me strength. (But on a lighter note; at least this book will allow me to scoff on chocolate without my hips making me feel guilty. Because everyone knows that chocolate eases any form of mental trauma. So I guess I can thank Becca Fitzpatrick for SOMETHING. But I still won't forgive her if there's any more of that \"ug. Me Patch. me angel. me hot. me horny. me want sex.\" thing. There are some things even CHOCOLATE can't help with. ) ...more Best book of the series by far. I'm actually looking forward reading the next one :). The events in the ending were really unexpected and I'm sure I can say that I love Patch even more than before. Ta autorka si p\u0159i psan\u00ed knihy asi va\u0159ila n\u011bjak\u00e9 houbi\u010dky, jinak opravdu nev\u00edm, neskute\u010dn\u00e9 blbosti tam propl\u00e9tala. Spoustu v\u011bc\u00ed by bylo t\u0159eba vyst\u0159\u00edhat... do\u010detla jsem a dostala par\u00e1dn\u00ed z\u00e1chvat sm\u00edchu :D Tengo una relaci\u00f3n amor-odio con este libro. Odio a Nora m\u00e1s que ninguna protagonista. No se como la misma autora puede crear 2 personajes que para mi representan algo totalmente diferente. Nora es la chica m\u00e1s atorrante, caprichosa, ego\u00edsta, est\u00fapida, malcriada y todos los abjetivos calificativos que podr\u00edan imaginar. EN RESUMEN: Es insoportable. Deber\u00edan darnos un premio por aguantarnosla. Es solo el amor a Patch y a la historia en s\u00ed por la que uno continua leyendo. Solo quiero... ghgjhgjhgj Tengo una relaci\u00f3n amor-odio con este libro. Odio a Nora m\u00e1s que ninguna protagonista. No se como la misma autora puede crear 2 personajes que para mi representan algo totalmente diferente. Nora es la chica m\u00e1s atorrante, caprichosa, ego\u00edsta, est\u00fapida, malcriada y todos los abjetivos calificativos que podr\u00edan imaginar. EN RESUMEN: Es insoportable. Deber\u00edan darnos un premio por aguantarnosla. Es solo el amor a Patch y a la historia en s\u00ed por la que uno continua leyendo. Solo quiero... ghgjhgjhgjhg Pero hey, este es un desfile de personajes odiosos. Entendemos que hay que odiar a Hank, el s\u00faper malo de la historia, pero hasta el es m\u00e1s adorable que la mam\u00e1 de ella y su amiguita Vee, es como si compitieran por ver cual es peor. En fin... La lectura ha de continuar. Aunque me choc\u00f3 un poco que otra vez viniera el mismo cuento del perro arrepentido, que si Patch protegiendo a Nora manteniendose oculto, gracias a las hadas de la sabidur\u00eda Becca reflexion\u00f3 a tiempo y pues cambi\u00f3 el gui\u00f3n, GRACIAS. Mucho pudo haber sido condensado, pero sabemos que extendieron la historia para hacerla cuatro libros as\u00ed que... no estuvo mal. La autora siempre tiene la manera de mantenerte interesado en ver que va a pasar. Lo que simplemente no soport\u00e9... es algo que tiene que ver con... \u00a1NORA! S\u00ed! Esta es la l\u00f3gica: Salvamos a la humanidad juntos, me salvas de la muerte,te salvo de la muerte, mato por ti, matas por mi, creamos toda esta tensi\u00f3n sexual durante 3 benditos libros, pero NUNCA nos acostamos porque eso, DICHO EN PALABRAS DE LA AUTORA, \"complicar\u00eda la relaci\u00f3n\" .................................................. Y no me mal interpreten, no se trata de que eso sea necesario en un libro. Es la manera tan inmadura que un autor trata el sexo en los libros lo que me choca, como si no fuera una cosa normal de dos personas que supuestamente se aman TANTO. O no? O es que yo me perd\u00ed? \u00bfPor qu\u00e9 hacen de ello todo un teatro y juegan y juegan la pelota con ello para no llegar a nada? No es divertido. Simplemente superalo, pasa la p\u00e1gina, o no lo menciones... pero sobretodo no des esa explicaci\u00f3n tan tan est\u00fapida... No hace falta el sexo para hacer un buen libro. Preguntale a J.K. Rowling, Becca. ...more Pre-Reading: *Gasp* Trilogy? Is this the last book?! NOOO!! DON'T LET IT END!! Ugh and the release date is soooo far away...can't wait to read it!! I bet the cover is gonna be totally awesome, just like the previous two =D *Update* HOLYFUDGSICLE!! I was wrong. The cover isn't totally awesome. IT'S BREATHTAKINGLY EPIC! I need this book NOW. Ugh... Review: Ugh, my gosh. You don't even know how PAINFUL the wait for this book was for me. The previous book, Crescendo, was the first book I read in 2011 an Pre-Reading: *Gasp* Trilogy? Is this the last book?! NOOO!! DON'T LET IT END!! Ugh and the release date is soooo far away...can't wait to read it!! I bet the cover is gonna be totally awesome, just like the previous two =D *Update* HOLYFUDGSICLE!! I was wrong. The cover isn't totally awesome. IT'S BREATHTAKINGLY EPIC! I need this book NOW. Ugh... Review: Ugh, my gosh. You don't even know how PAINFUL the wait for this book was for me. The previous book, Crescendo, was the first book I read in 2011 and ever since then I've been waiting patiently *cough*liar*cough* for Silence. I admit, when I got the book in my hands at the bookstore, I did an embarrassing dance right then and there. The old lady near me probably didn't find it all that pleasant. The ending of Crescendo left my mouth hanging open. And because of that, I expected big things happening in this book. When I opened the book up and read the synopsis on the inside, I was shocked to find that Nora's entire memory of all that has happened is gone (No, this is not a spoiler. It says on the book itself). WHAT?! Because of this, Nora had to figure out what's going on all over again. I'm not exactly sure I liked this twist in the plot, because it felt like we took one step forward in the ending of Crescendo and two steps back in Silence. Although my memory of everything that had happened in the previous novels had been refreshed, I did get confused a couple times while reading. I couldn't figure out whether the information Nora learned was old or new. There wasn't much development in the first half of the book, but I kept reading in hopes of that Becca Fitzpatrick is building up the suspense for a shocking ending. You've probably heard that she is now writing a fourth book in the series, so my expectations of how Silence ends was very high. And I have to say, it was shocking. And I ended up enjoying Silence a lot. I don't think it's as good as the previous two, but I am not disappointed. If anything, my excitement for the last book has just risen up even more. Nora, Nora, Nora. Girl, I love you, Ok? I mean, I always thought you were awesome, even if I did find you a little annoying in Crescendo. In fact, I still think you're awesome. But I really, REALLY want to give you a good smack right about now. At first I felt bad that you lost your memories so I wasn't all that harsh. But that little stunt you pulled in the end? WHATTHEHELL MAN. When a guy you trust tells you to do something in a dangerous situation, YOU LISTEN TO HIM FOR ONCE. That is all. And Patch-no, no, Jev (Yes I'm calling him Jev now XD). You do know how much I LUUURRRVE you too, right? I think the hours spent spazzing like a crazy fangirl has proved that. But did you learn NOTHING from everything that happened in Crescendo? Leaving the girl you love alone, thinking she'd be safe that way IS NOT A GOOD IDEA. But since you're so, soooo smexy, I'll let it go. But don't make the same mistake again. Please. As for Scottie the Hottie, I don't have much to say. You're cute, but I still prefer Jev. And just like that, I have to endure the pain of waiting for the next book to be released yet again. You'd think I'd be used to it now, but no. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go through the book and re-read all those smexy Jev parts again *evil grin*. ...more Ugh. This book was honestly terrible. I feel like Becca is trying too hard to meet the obligations of her contract and the result is a poor storyline and a ridiculous heroine. I can't stand a stupid leading lady... \u201cI love you.\u201d His voice was straightforward, affectionate. \u201cYou make me remember who I used to be. You make me want to be that man again. Right now, holding you, I feel like we have a shot at beating all odds and making it together. I\u2019m yours, if you\u2019ll have me.\u201d I'm melting, this is seriously cute as fuck. I loved this book. You won't see it coming, there's something about this book that made me love this series from the beginning, literally. I don't want to spoil this so I'll try making this \u201cI love you.\u201d His voice was straightforward, affectionate. \u201cYou make me remember who I used to be. You make me want to be that man again. Right now, holding you, I feel like we have a shot at beating all odds and making it together. I\u2019m yours, if you\u2019ll have me.\u201d I'm melting, this is seriously cute as fuck. I loved this book. You won't see it coming, there's something about this book that made me love this series from the beginning, literally. I don't want to spoil this so I'll try making this as much as un-spoilerish as I can. This book is what made me give my blessing to Nora and Patch. Now, after aqcuiring my blessing, they can go ahead and get married, have 4 or 5 children and let me babysit them until they come of age. I loved this book. It's one that strengthens the already existing love of Nora and Patch, this one isn't full of storyline. Basically, this series isn't full of plots and twists but I completely ignore this and focus on the drooling romance which I love wholeheartedly. You'll love Scott in this one, at least, I did. I mean I didn't like the dude all that much but he made me love him. Except the part where he is crushing full on Nora. Nope, take that part away. I don't know?? What more can I say without spoiling you guys? I cannot divulge into the centre-plot because it'll ruin the whole thing for you, so, let's just say: Trust me and read this and you won't be disappointed. K? K. ...more I've read the first two books months ago so I couldn't remember much at the beginning, but yet I enjoyed this book and it was amazing. Quick review for a not so quick, and somewhat belated read. Originally, I had this as one of ten titles I wanted to read from my not-my-cuppa shelf in 2013, but it ended up getting pushed back since I had so many other reads on my plate to tackle. I don't know if stepping away from this series for a time helped, but this didn't come across as painful as I thought it would be. Don't get me wrong, it left me rolling my eyes and annoyed the ever loving crumb out of me, but \"Silence\" did hold my att Quick review for a not so quick, and somewhat belated read. Originally, I had this as one of ten titles I wanted to read from my not-my-cuppa shelf in 2013, but it ended up getting pushed back since I had so many other reads on my plate to tackle. I don't know if stepping away from this series for a time helped, but this didn't come across as painful as I thought it would be. Don't get me wrong, it left me rolling my eyes and annoyed the ever loving crumb out of me, but \"Silence\" did hold my attention from beginning to end, and that's more than I can say for some reads of its type that I've perused of late. \"Silence\" picks up somewhat after the last book, with Nora recovering from amnesia. This begins a story plot that dragged on for goodness knows how much of the book; admittedly, it went on for too long. I knew that Patch wasn't completely out of the picture (I called his alias out from point one), and I knew that even with Nora trying to wrap her head around why she was kept in the dark by so many people in her life as well as the fact that her mother has hooked up with the father of her worst enemy. There's typical teenage drama for Nora, along with her haphazardly stumbling into dangerous situations she knows full well she shouldn't be in, but decides to jump head first within anyway. I *headdesked* on behalf of this book many times, mostly because of Nora's silliness. Patch wasn't as big of a role in this book during Nora's escapades. Maybe that was a good thing, but Nora didn't really let the reader forget about Patch so easily with her constant musings of \"dark eyes\" and the boy who consumed her memories even when they weren't so clear to her. The makeout scenes between Nora and Patch were incredibly unnatural and forced, not to mention awkward for transition (Fitzpatrick's prose does not help this) between plot points. There were also times when Fitzpatrick undercuts the tension in the book because of Nora being inexplicably indecisive. She would set her mind on doing one thing, and then do another thing, and it would just make things that much more frustrating for following the story. It wasn't just the fact that she was a teenager, the motivations came out of nowhere and had no build up. Still, seems like the story sets itself up for the final book in the series, and I will pick that up eventually. I'm just not sure when yet. For now, I think the strength in this book came from a well read audiobook reading, and so I'll continue that method for \"Finale.\" Overall score: 2/5 stars ...more 5 Angelic Stars! I loved the book however; I was disappointed in the author\u2019s lack of recall for her own series. It shocks me how Patch went from a man whose face was dark as a Spaniards in the prologue to hush, hush and now in book three (Silence), his skin tone magically lightened and now has that sun kissed look.Must be the same disease MJ suffered from when he went from black to white. Then again, she did describe Nora as a white woman and some bigots complained\u2026 who knows. I was also confus 5 Angelic Stars! I loved the book however; I was disappointed in the author\u2019s lack of recall for her own series. It shocks me how Patch went from a man whose face was dark as a Spaniards in the prologue to hush, hush and now in book three (Silence), his skin tone magically lightened and now has that sun kissed look.Must be the same disease MJ suffered from when he went from black to white. Then again, she did describe Nora as a white woman and some bigots complained\u2026 who knows. I was also confused as to Patch/ Jev standings. The first time I read the book I didn\u2019t understand why it was Patch had no connection to the Archangels. After all it was not the Archangels who tore out his wings but the same group of nephilim who tore out the caged archangels wings. Then it hit me. The explanation lies not in book three but the end of book two where Patch goes rouge to be with Nora. The archangel must feel that Patch has fallen of his own free will. Another tie in with book two is the ring. If you were wondering about the ring, you\u2019re not alone; so was I. At the end of book two Patch gives Nora back her father\u2019s ring\u2026 engraved with his given name Jev of all things. How is it that Nora never noticed? Book three is definitely a book that needs to be read in order of sequence to get a better understanding of what is going on. However, with its subtle reminders one could grasp the meaning with little confusion. In short, I am a Patch/ Nora/ Becca Fitzpatrick fan. Although I was disappointed with a few aspects it does not change the fact that I love all three books in the series and will be reading them again before the release of the next and final book. It is modern retailing of endless love that seem to hook every female reader with a whimsical imagination. If you are reading\u2026.KEEP READING! If you have yet to check out the book or series MOVE IT TO THE TOP OF YOUR TO-READ LIST! In the end you will not be disappointed ! ...more 3,5/5 Nora se despierta en un cementerio, sin ning\u00fan recuerdo de los \u00faltimos cuatro meses. No recuerda a los \u00e1ngeles ca\u00eddos, ni a Patch, ni b\u00e1sicamente nada de lo que sucedi\u00f3 en la saga. Mientras se dedica a hallar respuestas y a recomponer su vida, una revoluci\u00f3n importante se agita entre las sombras, y Nora estar\u00e1 m\u00e1s involucrada de lo que jam\u00e1s hubiera deseado. Voy a ser clara y honesta: Crescendo fue una tortura. Me decepcion\u00f3 mucho, pero al final las cosas se pusieron interesantes, imag\u00ednense 3,5/5 Nora se despierta en un cementerio, sin ning\u00fan recuerdo de los \u00faltimos cuatro meses. No recuerda a los \u00e1ngeles ca\u00eddos, ni a Patch, ni b\u00e1sicamente nada de lo que sucedi\u00f3 en la saga. Mientras se dedica a hallar respuestas y a recomponer su vida, una revoluci\u00f3n importante se agita entre las sombras, y Nora estar\u00e1 m\u00e1s involucrada de lo que jam\u00e1s hubiera deseado. Voy a ser clara y honesta: Crescendo fue una tortura. Me decepcion\u00f3 mucho, pero al final las cosas se pusieron interesantes, imag\u00ednense mi frustraci\u00f3n al descubrir que en Silencio Nora perd\u00eda por completo la memoria. Cre\u00eda que iba a ser aburrid\u00edsimo ir descubriendo las cosas que ya sab\u00eda con ella, pero lo cierto es que le\u00ed Hush Hush y Crescendo hace un a\u00f1o, as\u00ed que no me acordaba de gran cosa, por lo que el camino de descubrimiento de Nora tambi\u00e9n fue en parte m\u00edo. En este libro lo que me molest\u00f3 fue otra cosa: la falta de l\u00f3gica de la autora. D\u00e9jenme planterles algunos ejemplos para que entiendan un poco mejor: su novio da sus alas para mantenerla salvo, renuncia a todo lo que es por ella, y ella se enoja porque no \"luch\u00f3\" lo suficiente; acaba de volver de un traum\u00e1tico secuestro y lo \u00fanico que se le ocurre es correr sola en la oscuridad de la noche; encuentra la \u00fanica cosa que puede matar a su novio, y en vez de avisarle o encontrar la manera de neutralizarlo, lo guarda en el caj\u00f3n de su tocador; despu\u00e9s de estar meses desaparecida, se enoja con su madre porque encontr\u00f3 el amor; cuando su mejor amiga que estaba desaparecida regresa, Vee solo habla de que bajo un kilo y medio; atravesaste miles con tu novio y lo haces dormir en el sof\u00e1 porque no quieres que las cosas \"se compliquen\" con el sexo. Si hay algo que me molest\u00f3 much\u00edsimo, es que no se tomara el secuestro de Nora en serio. En parte agradezco que la autora no le dedicara p\u00e1ginas y p\u00e1ginas enteras a como la prota se sent\u00eda, me pareci\u00f3 demasiado irreal toda la situaci\u00f3n. La chica acaba de volver de ser raptada (y nadie sabe qu\u00e9 carajos le pas\u00f3 all\u00ed) y lo \u00fanico que recibe es un abrazo medio emotivo de su madre y una llamada de Vee. Despu\u00e9s, todo a la normalidad. WTF? Nora me sigue cayendo bastante bien, no la odio o la quiero matar como mucha gente. Aunque s\u00ed, por los ejemplos que dije antes y por muchos m\u00e1s en ocasiones ten\u00eda ganas de abofetearla. Porque esa chica necesita ordenar sus prioridades Vee me da much\u00edsima gracia de lo rid\u00edcula que es, s\u00f3lo se preocupa de ella misma y habla y habla y habla y habla Y HABLA; no me molest\u00f3 para nada, porque b\u00e1sicamente me re\u00eda de ella. En libros anteriores estaba perdidamente enamorada de Patch, pero, si bien estuvo todo sexy y encantador, creo que ya no tiene ese efecto en m\u00ed, ya no lo amo y punto. Y Scott <3 en Crescendo me hab\u00eda dado igual, pero en este libro me ha podido. La trama Neflim/\u00e1ngel ca\u00eddo/arc\u00e1ngeles me ha gustado mucho en este libro, si bien no pasan grandes cosas, todo queda hermosamente preparado para un intens\u00edsimo cuarto libro . Me gust\u00f3 bastante c\u00f3mo la \"guerra\" fue llevada y que ahora Nora est\u00e9 totalmente involucrada en ella. Silencio es demasiado adictivo. Los cap\u00edtulos se me pasaban volando, y a\u00fan en los momentos en los que no estaba sucediendo nada en realidad, no pod\u00eda dejar de leerlo. Es s\u00faper entretenido y no s\u00e9 qu\u00e9 tiene Becca Fitzpatrick, pero logra envolverme totalmente con su pluma y hechizarme hasta el infinito. Porque esto es lo que es: una historia disfrutable, entretenida, r\u00e1pida, pero no mucho m\u00e1s que eso . No puedo decir que este libro me decepcion\u00f3 porque despu\u00e9s de Crescendo ten\u00eda bajas expectativas, de hecho, estaba debatiendo mentalmente si ponerle un 4 en lugar de un 3,4, pero despu\u00e9s de muchos momentos absurdos y facepalm\u00b4s me decid\u00ed por la segunda opci\u00f3n. Y es que este libro est\u00e1 bien, pero de pronto te sale con esas escenas, o esos pensamientos de Nora m\u00e1s concretamente, que te hacen querer volarte los sesos de un balazo. Lo digo por segunda vez en esta rese\u00f1a: ESA CHICA NECESITA ORDENAR SUS PRIORIDADES. Tambi\u00e9n me pareci\u00f3 un poco extra\u00f1o que amara a Patch aunque su memoria no hab\u00eda vuelto; o sea, Patch le cont\u00f3 su historia y Nora ya m\u00e1s o menos se estaba quitando las bragas, cuando en realidad no deber\u00eda recordar nada. S\u00e9 que es un detalle casi insignificante y que en realidad que haya sucedido ayud\u00f3 a agilizar el flujo de la novela, but still... El final estuvo muy bien, me encant\u00f3 que tuviera m\u00e1s acci\u00f3n y emoci\u00f3n de la esperada. Y estaba todo perfecto, estaba disfutando realmente much\u00edsimo de la novela, cuando pasa esto: toda la existencia de Nora cambia, y la muy est\u00fapida s\u00f3lo se preocupa de c\u00f3mo se lo va a contar a Patch. Hay cosas en este libro que son tomadas con demasiada seriedad, rozando lo rid\u00edculo; mientras que hay cosas TRASCENDENTALES que suceden y a los personajes ni siquiera parece importarles. As\u00ed que s\u00ed, leer\u00e9 el \u00faltimo libro porque las cosas quedaron en un punto emocionante y la saga ya se terminar\u00e1, pero tampoco es que Silencio estuvo taaaan genial. ...more", "Title": "Silence"},
