{"Comments": "This was an outstanding book in every measurable way: great writing,<---M> great story</---M>, highly imaginative, and not shy in tackling substantive issues of life and death in turn of the century Mexico. A professor once defined \"sublime\" as a combination of the beautiful and the horrible, and I think the Hummingbird's Daughter fits this definition to a t. The story is both beautiful in its telling and horrifying in its description of the cruelty people bring to one another in pursuit of religion, nationa This was an outstanding book in every measurable way: great writing, great story, highly imaginative, and not shy in tackling substantive issues of life and death in turn of the century Mexico. A professor once defined \"sublime\" as a combination of the beautiful and the horrible, and I think the Hummingbird's Daughter fits this definition to a t. The story is both beautiful in its telling and horrifying in its description of the cruelty people bring to one another in pursuit of religion, nationalism, and glory. ...more \"<+++>The Hummingbird's Daughter</+++>\" quickly made my list of 25 favorite books ever. Every one of the 20 years <---A>Luis Alberto Urrea</---A> spent on this story was worth it. There are few books I consider perfect, and this is one: Urrea deftly makes every word, comma, character nuance and plot twist seem straightforward and simple, yet there's so much going on here. He takes the barely sketched history of his aunt Teresita--the \"Saint of Cabora\" who helped inspire the Mexican revolution--and breathes life into a \"<+++>The Hummingbird's Daughter</+++>\" quickly made my list of 25 favorite books ever. Every one of the 20 years Luis Alberto Urrea spent on this story was worth it. There are few books I consider perfect, and this is one: Urrea deftly makes every word, comma, character nuance and plot twist seem straightforward and simple, yet there's so much going on here. He takes the barely sketched history of his aunt Teresita--the \"Saint of Cabora\" who helped inspire the Mexican revolution--and breathes life into a brave, compassionate, lively young heroine with a sense of humor. This book has everything: history, family conflict, coming-of-age, social issues, politics, sex, love, violence, religion, Native American healing and a delightful sprinkling of magical realism. I was so impressed, I took a chance on recommending Urrea's \"Into The Beautiful North\" as the first read for the new book club I've joined, though I knew nothing about it. Mr. Urrea didn't let me down: yet another masterpiece about another young Mexican woman, a century later. Mr. Urrea has now joined the ranks of those authors whose books I'll read simply because their names are on the cover. ...<---F>more This is a phenomenal, picaresque story</---F>. Teresa (Teresita) Urrea, the Hummingbird's daughter, possessed me, made me want to dig my bare feet in the earth and rub rose petals and lavender all over my body. She is now my beloved hero of contemporary literature. Strong, courageous, formidable, guileless, beautifully vulnerable, compassionate, quick-witted, and luminescent, Teresa is a modern-day *saint* without the dismal, pious sobriety of one. She is more like a noble iconoclast. She hikes up her This is a phenomenal, picaresque story. Teresa (Teresita) Urrea, the Hummingbird's daughter, possessed me, made me want to dig my bare feet in the earth and rub rose petals and lavender all over my body. She is now my beloved hero of contemporary literature. Strong, courageous, formidable, guileless, beautifully vulnerable, compassionate, quick-witted, and luminescent, Teresa is a modern-day *saint* without the dismal, pious sobriety of one. She is more like a noble iconoclast. She hikes up her skirts and rides a horse better than any man, eats like a lumberjack, and engages in astral projection. She denounces organized religion and behaves more like a pantheist. She can heal with her hands, bandy words with politicians, and flirt with the infamous. The author based this work of fiction on real events in the life of an eponymous blood relation, circa 1880 (when the story also takes pace). He spent 20 years in the research and writing, which is evident in the stirring, complex, yet easily digestible, mouth-watering narration of this novel. Teresa is the illegitimate daughter of wealthy (and married) south-of-the-border rancher Don Tomas and a fourteen year-old peasant Indian woman who fled Sinaloa for greener pastures. Raised initially by her mean-spirited aunt, her adventurous spirit eventually delivers her to the house of her father at a tender, young age. The protective, flinty Huila, a medicine woman who works for Don Tomas, apprehends Teresa's destiny and mentors her in the art and botanical science of healing. Huila is also aware that Teresa has a native and inherited shamanic talent way beyond midwifery and organic medicine. Filled with a sprawling and vivid cast of characters--vaqueros, caballeros, Indians, pilgrims,politicians, the wealthy as well as the indigent, apostates as well as the devout, this is a colorful, astutely comical allegory that is ripe with thought, action, and spirit. It is a story of familial love and redemption and the vastness of the soul. It is a tale of adventure that you won't want to end. (Rumor has it that a sequel and a film is in the works.) Luis Alberto Urrea is an exuberant storyteller oozing an alchemical mixture of warmth, humor, satire, and vigorous vitality. His style is a reminiscent witch's brew of the best of outlaw and magical realism--The Milagro Beanfield War; Lonesome Dove; a dose of Garcia-Marquez; a glittering sprinkle of Isabelle Allende. But it is its own mystical and magical epic story of community and faith, of an unforgettable daughter and the people who loved her. ...more This book sucked me right in mostly because I loved the fact that Teresita, the young girl who becomes revered as a local saint in pre-revolutionary Mexico, was actually a relative of the author, Urrea. The way he imagines Teresita's life, and the lives of those around her, reminds me of hypertext - you're reading along, absorbed in a great character whose thoughts and actions are totally unique and amusing and endearing and rage-inspiring, and suddenly there's this whole other person branching This book sucked me right in mostly because I loved the fact that Teresita, the young girl who becomes revered as a local saint in pre-revolutionary Mexico, was actually a relative of the author, Urrea. The way he imagines Teresita's life, and the lives of those around her, reminds me of hypertext - you're reading along, absorbed in a great character whose thoughts and actions are totally unique and amusing and endearing and rage-inspiring, and suddenly there's this whole other person branching off into his/her own saga, in all the complexities and human desires possible. So this was a great concept, powerful writing, and engaging all at once. As a writer, I learned a lot about how to create characters. As a reader, I was swept along by the underlying plot about human suffering and our individual and collective search for a reason. -- the ending was not as satisfying as the rest of the book, but then, neither was the ending of the real Teresita's sainthood (not telling!). Also, and this is my own flaw, I wish I could read this in Spanish. Wow. -- I also heard Urrea read this at Virginia Festival of the Book (actually another great performance - Urrea had an entire chapter memorized, and basically acted it out with his amazing voice), and if he ever comes out with an audio recording in his own voice of this book, I'd buy it in a second. ...more Rating: an irritated single star. Someone needs to explain to me why this book is great. I don't think it's even good. It's The Song of Bernadette for the 21st century, written in prose as flat and featureless as the deserts it describes. So very, very, very not recommended. The thing that struck me most about The Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter was its \u201ccampfire\u201d quality. I imagined it being told by a particularly gifted grandfather. Urrea is no grandfather yet, but his pure storytelling ability is second to none. He creates beautiful rhythms in simple language. Each of his chapters is structured as its own little tale. He dispenses comedy and heartbreak in equal measures. And he doesn\u2019t hold back, trusting his natural instincts to tell the story as the story itself begs to The thing that struck me most about The Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter was its \u201ccampfire\u201d quality. I imagined it being told by a particularly gifted grandfather. Urrea is no grandfather yet, but his pure storytelling ability is second to none. He creates beautiful rhythms in simple language. Each of his chapters is structured as its own little tale. He dispenses comedy and heartbreak in equal measures. And he doesn\u2019t hold back, trusting his natural instincts to tell the story as the story itself begs to be told: honestly. That this novel is based on the life of his ancestor Teresita Urrea (who just happens to be a Mexican folk hero), only adds to the feeling of immediacy of the telling. Adventure and tragedy and love are given equal weight. The pacing is interesting in that it remains very even but never dull. For a book of 500 pages, it never feels slow or overwrought. In fact, simplicity is one of the first features I noticed as I read it. Included is only what is needed. Since it\u2019s based on real events, the plot is not as tightly knitted as, say, a thriller, but there is an internal logic to the sequence of events, even ones that seem episodic. The one other thing I feel compelled to mention is the good-naturedness of the writing. Maybe it\u2019s Urrea\u2019s willingness to crack a joke, to not take too seriously even the darker moments of his novel. Melodrama is completely absent. One of the best books I\u2019ve read in a while, and highly recommended. ...more This review has been revised on completion. Teresita, the Hummingbird's daughter, existed. She is an acknowledged saint. In this book you learn about her life in Mexico, until she was forced to leave at the age of 19. You learn about Mexico (food, lifestyle, religious beliefs and customs) and about the Mexican Civil War that took place in the last decade of the 1800s. You learn about her role in this war. Teresita was a distant cousin to the author. Although based on known fact, it is a novel. T This review has been revised on completion. Teresita, the Hummingbird's daughter, existed. She is an acknowledged saint. In this book you learn about her life in Mexico, until she was forced to leave at the age of 19. You learn about Mexico (food, lifestyle, religious beliefs and customs) and about the Mexican Civil War that took place in the last decade of the 1800s. You learn about her role in this war. Teresita was a distant cousin to the author. Although based on known fact, it is a novel. This book is a beautiful example of what can be achieved through historical fiction. I have listened to the audio version of The Hummingbird's Daughter , and I loved it. It is narrated by the author, so I was a bit skeptical - I mean, he is not a trained narrator! On the other hand, being the author, means he knows what lines he wants to emphasize. He suceeded. It is SO good. The writing is full of imagery. Since I listened to an audio, I sucked on every sentence. I feel the imagery is stronger because of this. So if I you choose to read the book, my advice sould be read it slowly. A word of warning: the imagery is both gtusome and beautiful. You might need a strong stomach for some ot it. There is quite a bit os Spanish thrown in. I did not have any trouble with that, although I do not know Spanish. By the end of the novel I adored the way the author/narrator inbibed the Spanish dialect into the novel. The imagery is what will remain most vivid in my memory of this novel. Three examples: - Her hair reached to her bottom which was like a \"plump peach\". - There is a child, born smiling, after the prolonged suffering of childbirth. - There is the first time Teresita enters the patron's house and is confronted with the grandfather clock, with its pendulum and rythmic beating. For her it is a tree with its heart thumping. - And the flowers that you experience in all their colors and fragrances and shapes and sizes. Perhaps it is because the imagery of horrible, heartwrenching depictions (for example sores with pus and vermin and stench) contrasts so abruptly with beauty, that I was blown away. Beyond the wonderful imagery, the book teaches about past events and about a different culture. One need not be a devout, believing person to appreciate the events. Teresita is not unbelievable. she cannot cure everyone. She was educated in the science of herbs. Being a true sceptic, I never had trouble accepting \"strange mystical events\". There is always another explanation to fall back on. Perhaps I so liked the book because the messages imparted were realistic and yet upplifting at the same time. Good and bad were intertwined. The value of family is wonderfully shown. And I grew to love Teresita's father. All his weaknesses only made him more human. I understood his preference for bees over humans. When he pats the pig on the head.... You will meet Huila and so many others, whom you will grow to love. Luis Alberto Urrea has written a follow-up book entitled Queen of America: A Novel , The theme is significantly different. While the first is about the indigenous people of Mexico and their lives at the end of the 19th century, the latter is about the Spanish immigrant ewperience in the in newly industrialized America of the 20th century. Both follow Teresita, the Saint of Cabora. ...more I really slogged through this. I\u2019m not sure why I had such a difficult time reading it. I\u2019m glad that I did. I ended up enjoying it but I wasn\u2019t wild about it. It's well written, I liked some of the characters including Huila and Teresa; many of the characters were interesting, although often infuriating. I read as a skeptic but that shouldn\u2019t have detracted from my enjoyment as it hasn\u2019t with other similar themed books. The book was disturbing, violent and depicted many atrocities that humans c I really slogged through this. I\u2019m not sure why I had such a difficult time reading it. I\u2019m glad that I did. I ended up enjoying it but I wasn\u2019t wild about it. It's well written, I liked some of the characters including Huila and Teresa; many of the characters were interesting, although often infuriating. I read as a skeptic but that shouldn\u2019t have detracted from my enjoyment as it hasn\u2019t with other similar themed books. The book was disturbing, violent and depicted many atrocities that humans commit upon one another, but I\u2019ve read plenty of books such as those and loved them despite the gore and tragedy. This book did inspire me to research the peoples in these places and this time that are described in this novel. This book is a work of fiction but is based on a real woman from an actual place and time, and the history is interesting. I think I\u2019d rather have read a non-fiction book about the subject. So, I don\u2019t know whether it\u2019s because while reading my tolerance for human frailties was especially low or what it was, but the story just didn\u2019t grab me. However, it\u2019s epic in scale and has some beautiful descriptions and I wouldn\u2019t want to dissuade anyone from reading it, especially because I\u2019m glad that I read it for my book club; otherwise I would not have read it, or stuck with it had I started. I guess this doesn\u2019t sound like a rousing endorsement but I would recommend this book if you\u2019re interested in Mexico\u2019s history and peoples. ...more Certain authors excel at crafting gritty and realistic recreations of the world we live in; others are expert at transforming our world into a more magical and fantastical one. Luis Alberto Urrea, in an astounding feat of alchemy, does both. Within the novel\u2019s sprawling 499 pages, his depiction of Teresita Urrea \u2013 his real-life great-aunt, anointed the \u201cSaint of Cabora\u201d \u2013 becomes increasingly intoxicating and unputdownable. In a sprawling yet controlled epic, we meet Teresita \u2013 the illegitimate d Certain authors excel at crafting gritty and realistic recreations of the world we live in; others are expert at transforming our world into a more magical and fantastical one. Luis Alberto Urrea, in an astounding feat of alchemy, does both. Within the novel\u2019s sprawling 499 pages, his depiction of Teresita Urrea \u2013 his real-life great-aunt, anointed the \u201cSaint of Cabora\u201d \u2013 becomes increasingly intoxicating and unputdownable. In a sprawling yet controlled epic, we meet Teresita \u2013 the illegitimate daughter of a teen mother called \u201chummingbird\u201d and the patron Tomas\u2013 right after she is deserted and left in the so-called care of a mean-hearted aunt. She is \u201cadopted\u201d by Huila, an old curaranda, who takes her under her wing and teaches her about desert herbs and plant medicine and the power of the unconscious. It is not long before she comes to the attention of Tomas, who accepts her as his daughter. In a sensuous whirlwind of description, the land comes alive and our senses are besotted the noxious smells of pig sties the sharp smell of sweat, and the mouth-watering smells of Mexican foods, the bursting beauty of desert flowers and plants, the braying burros and squabbling crows. You feel as if you could step into the scene; that\u2019s how perfectly it\u2019s depicted. When the novel levitates into magical realism, we\u2019ve already signed on for the ride and put ourselves into Mr. Urrea\u2019s very capable hands. The power of his words is that we do not merely escape from the world by entering this new one; rather, we gain a greater grasp of what it is to be human. As Teresita begins to heal with her hands and her father\u2019s ranch is overrun by pilgrims, we stand in amazement with the People \u2013 the Greek chorus that is indelibly embedded into the pages of this book. All of the narrative plays against the backdrop of a changing Mexico: approaching revolution, removal of Indians from their ancestral lands, southwestern border disputes, the Diaz government\u2019s darkening suspicions and paranoia, the controlling hand of organized religion \u2013 all contrasted against one uneducated but wise girl\u2019s healing message of love and healing. The Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter has it all \u2013 facts and legends that Mr. Urrea, a reporter, gathered from 20 years of research into his childhood, Western mythology, Catholic hagiography, Mexican folklore and more, interwoven with down-to-earth descriptions of poverty, warfare, torture, and grittiness. The result is pure effervescence, a testimony to the power of storytelling at its finest. ...more This is a marvellous book that I would recommend to everyone who: Is a fan of Magical Realism Is interested in Mexican History Is intrigued by Catholic sainthood and wants to learn about \u201ccuranderas\u201d (medicine women) Although parts of it, like descriptions of the extreme poverty, are very difficult to read, there is so much beauty in the book to balance it out. This compelling novel is based on the real life person Teresa Urrea, who was the great aunt of the author Luis Alberto Urrea. Urrea spent 20 This is a marvellous book that I would recommend to everyone who: Is a fan of Magical Realism Is interested in Mexican History Is intrigued by Catholic sainthood and wants to learn about \u201ccuranderas\u201d (medicine women) Although parts of it, like descriptions of the extreme poverty, are very difficult to read, there is so much beauty in the book to balance it out. This compelling novel is based on the real life person Teresa Urrea, who was the great aunt of the author Luis Alberto Urrea. Urrea spent 20 years writing this novel and researching the life of this remarkable woman who was and is revered as a Saint, but was at one point considered \" The most dangerous girl in Mexico\" by the authorities. She was never canonized by the church. This is a very powerful book that I love! ...more Luis Alberto Urrea can read to me any time he wants to. Oy! What a voice and how well he reads. This book becomes magical with his voice. Although presented as a book of fiction, there is much truth told from 20-years of research and family tales of a distant relative who became known as the \"Saint of Cabora.\" A story that mixes pre-revolutionary Mexico with folk tales and a touch of magic realism. A wonderful ride. The Hummingbird's Daughter by Luis Urrea is the true story of a strong-willed, teenage Mexican girl in the 19th century. She was said to have miraculous healing powers, inspired the common people to value their native identity, and in the end helped bring about the Mexican Revolution. Can't get over it. A poetic page-turner. This is a very interesting story about a real woman who lived in Mexico in the late 19th century. She was the author's great-aunt, and he grew up hearing stories and legends about her. Beginning in 1985, the author began twenty years of research leading to this novel. Teresita was considered the \"Saint of Cabora,\" although she did not think of herself in that way. She was born the bastard daughter of Don Tomas Urrea. At birth, she had a strange triangular mark on her forehead. The curandera said This is a very interesting story about a real woman who lived in Mexico in the late 19th century. She was the author's great-aunt, and he grew up hearing stories and legends about her. Beginning in 1985, the author began twenty years of research leading to this novel. Teresita was considered the \"Saint of Cabora,\" although she did not think of herself in that way. She was born the bastard daughter of Don Tomas Urrea. At birth, she had a strange triangular mark on her forehead. The curandera said this was a sign that she would be different and have special powers. The story contains an interesting mix of Mexican history, legends, lore, and a little magical realism. I like the way the author never claims actual \"miracles\" attributed to Teresita. He points out that Mexican people historically love saints and miracles and magic and created myths far beyond the truth of the actual events. The only reason I didn't give this four stars is that I was a little disappointed in the lack of depth. After twenty years of research, he could have given us more of what he'd learned about the traditions and experiences of the people in Mexico at that period in history. (I happen to consider three stars a perfectly solid, respectable rating, worthy of reading.) ...more I still dream of this book. And a year later, I am still looking for this book, remade. Like an old girlfired or a wife now dead that will be the ideal all other women in a man's life are compared to. Damn...how can I describe this...My last two years of undergrad, I focused primarily on Female Medieval Mystical Writers. I love how these women brought their faith into their bodies, and write from there...bringing god into themselves as a lover, a layer of skin, a wealt. I love their absolute con I still dream of this book. And a year later, I am still looking for this book, remade. Like an old girlfired or a wife now dead that will be the ideal all other women in a man's life are compared to. Damn...how can I describe this...My last two years of undergrad, I focused primarily on Female Medieval Mystical Writers. I love how these women brought their faith into their bodies, and write from there...bringing god into themselves as a lover, a layer of skin, a wealt. I love their absolute conviction that there are worlds going on around us that we cannot see but that are real. I love how sure they are about their personal connection to the spiritual...it is not something that happens around them or to them but in every cell of their bodies and with every synaptic leap in their minds. So this book calls to that passion in me. A sensual spitituality. The whole book is sensual. There is gorgeous food and wet slick jungle mud, floating floral smells and white washed desert. The landscape this book leads you through is the land I love. Granted I have never been to Mexico but I know the desert. It is also a story on a grand scale...a whole life and all the lives connected to it which I can not resist. ...more Urrea pulls together two decades of personal research into the compelling story of a great aunt who became a sainted icon of the indigenous rebellion against the Porfiriato in late 19th century Mexico. The Hummingbird's Daughter paints a vivid, earthy, fearless picture of the insular rural world of the hacienda of his people, as well as of the nameless masses of \"the People,\" his term for the Indian underclass that populate the background of the story and eventually swell like the tide. Urrea de Urrea pulls together two decades of personal research into the compelling story of a great aunt who became a sainted icon of the indigenous rebellion against the Porfiriato in late 19th century Mexico. The Hummingbird's Daughter paints a vivid, earthy, fearless picture of the insular rural world of the hacienda of his people, as well as of the nameless masses of \"the People,\" his term for the Indian underclass that populate the background of the story and eventually swell like the tide. Urrea deserves praise for the seamless transitions he makes between the achingly beautiful and the disgusting. He tumbles headlong into both in order to acknowledge that they are equally true, equally parts of life and death in the Mexico he describes. For a book about a woman's holy powers of healing and divine love, there is an awful lot of pig filth, difficult childbirths, gunshot wounds, and skin sores--and this balance is precisely what makes the 500 pages breeze past in a cloud of reality and possibility. Occasionally the accumulated weight of the vast research he has amassed in preparing to tell his family's story will press against the scenery he paints, chink the sky with echoes of a newspaper article or an eyewitness account, wind the narrative into a puzzling gully, but the sum of the book breathes life into a rich world of beauty, faith, and injustice. An excerpt from chapter one to set the scene: Every Mexican was a diluted Indian, invaded by milk like the coffee in Cayetana's cup. Afraid, after the Conquest and the Inquisition, of their own brown wrappers, they colored their faces with powder, covered their skins in perfumes and European silks and American habits. Yet for all their beaver hats and their lace veils, the fine citizens of the great cities knew they had nothing that would ever match the ancient feathers of the quetzal. No cacique stood atop any temple clad in jaguar skins. Crinolines, waistcoats. Operas, High Mass, caf\u00e9 au lait in demitasse cups in sidewalk patisseries. They attempted to choke the gods with New York pantaloons, Parisian petticoats. But still the banished spirits whispered from corners and basements. In Mexico City, the great and fallen Tenochtitl\u00e1n, among streets and buildings constructed with the stones of the Pyramid of the Sun, gentlemen walked with their heads slightly tilted, cocked as if listening to this puzzling murmur of wraiths. They still spoke a thousand languages--Spanish, too, to be sure, but also a thicket of songs and grammars. Mexico--the sound of wind in the ruins. Mexico--the waves rushing the shore. Mexico--the sand dunes, the snowfields, the steam of sleeping Popocat\u00e9petl. Mexico--across marijuana fields, tomato plants, avocado trees, the agave in the village of Tequila. Mexico.... All around them, in the small woods, in the caves, in the precipitous canyons of copper country, in the swamps and at the crossroads, the harsh Old Ones gathered. Tlaloc, the rain god, lips parched because the Mexicans no longer tortured children to feed him sweet drafts of their tears. The Flayed One, Xipe Totec, shivering cold because priests no longer skinned sacrifices alive and danced in their flesh to bring forth the harvest. Ton\u00e1ntzin, goddess of Tepeyac, chased from her summit by the very Mother of God, the Virgen de Guadalupe. The awesome and ferocious warrior god, Hummingbird on the Left, Huitzilopochtli. Even the Mexicans' friend, Chac Mool, was lonely. Big eared and waiting to carry their hopes and dreams in his bowl as he transited to the land of the gods from the earth, he lay on his back watching forever in vain for the feathered priests to return. Other Old Ones hid behind statues in the cathedrals that the Spaniards had built with the stones of their shattered temples. The smell of sacrificial blood and copal seeped out from between the stones to mix with incense and candles. Death is alive, they whispered. Death lives inside life, as bones dance within the body. Yesterday is within today. Yesterday never dies. Mexico. Mexico. ...more It always seems that I have more to say about books I'm criticizing than books I loved. I suppose it's because I usually begin with high expectations, and when a book lives up to those expectation, there isn't much to say, but when it doesn't there has to be a reckoning. This book is one of those great books about which I do not have much to say. This book struck the perfect balance of realistic and dreamy. Urrea brought the setting to life for me, so real it felt like I could touch it. He weaves It always seems that I have more to say about books I'm criticizing than books I loved. I suppose it's because I usually begin with high expectations, and when a book lives up to those expectation, there isn't much to say, but when it doesn't there has to be a reckoning. This book is one of those great books about which I do not have much to say. This book struck the perfect balance of realistic and dreamy. Urrea brought the setting to life for me, so real it felt like I could touch it. He weaves magical realism elements into the story perfectly. In the back of books, I keep a running tally on a sticky note: pages numbers where there are quotes I want to write down and remember or points/messages/techniques that I really liked, and another list of page numbers where I found something that made me uncomfortable, something (potentially) objectionable, inconsistencies, or other criticisms. Going back through the \"negatives,\" I was happy to see that once everything was taken into account, all \"objections\" evaporated. The only complaint I have, and it is minor compared to how much I enjoyed the book, is that the Tomochic thread didn't fit in as well as I'd like. It was confusing and I didn't really understand what was going on, especially having never before heard of Tomochic. It felt rushed, not fully developed, like he included it because it was an important event in Teresa Urrea history and not because his heart was in it. All in all, this was a pretty luscious read and I am looking forward to reading the sequel. ...more Set in late 1800\u2019s Mexico amid the political turmoil of General Porfirio Diaz\u2019s regime \u201cThe Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter\u201d recounts the real-life story of Urrea\u2019s great-aunt Teresita. The illegitimate daughter of the patron and one of the indios working his ranch, Teresita eventually became known as Santa Teresa, the Saint of Cabora. Apprenticed to the colorful curandera (healer) Huila at an early age she eventually became known for her midwifery skills, healing powers and supposed return from the dead Set in late 1800\u2019s Mexico amid the political turmoil of General Porfirio Diaz\u2019s regime \u201cThe Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter\u201d recounts the real-life story of Urrea\u2019s great-aunt Teresita. The illegitimate daughter of the patron and one of the indios working his ranch, Teresita eventually became known as Santa Teresa, the Saint of Cabora. Apprenticed to the colorful curandera (healer) Huila at an early age she eventually became known for her midwifery skills, healing powers and supposed return from the dead. Eventually her popularity among the laypeople inspired massive pilgrimages to her home and attracted the attention of General Di\u00adaz himself, who saw her as a threat to his authority when she began encouraging the Yaqui Indians to fight for their land. After spending twenty years researching Teresita\u2019s life and even the healing techniques of the indios, Urrea has created an enthralling story filled with lively characters who all but jump off the page. I especially appreciated his colorful use of colloquial Spanish, which not only reminded me of some of my relatives but made his characters seem all the more human. ...more I first became fascinated by the Mexican healer Teresita Urrea when I heard a UTEP professor give a brief profile of her life. She recommended this novel, written by a descendant, and it's one of the most beautiful, fascinating, compelling books I've ever read. The plot covers her early life up through her exile to the U.S. It's an epic--nearly 500 pages long and frankly, I'd have been happy if it had gone on several hundred more. \"The world of reason must be a lonely place.\" This is a historical novel mixed with a generous dose of magical realism. Luis Alberto Urrea's imaginative telling of Teresita's life and the colorful characters who surrounded her seeped into my dreams. I have lived and traveled throughout Mexico and studied the nuances of Mexican Spanish which made this book especially vivid. This is one of the finest works of fiction I have ever read. Mr. Urrea is an extraordinary story teller, and the Hummingbird's Daughter is an extraordinary story. This book is sometimes horrifying, sometimes hilarious, but beautifully written and utterly captivating. Five stars. Sometimes I wished there were more stars with which to rate a book. This is one of those times. This book is worthy of far more than five measly stars. Much more. \"The Hummingbird's Daughter\" is about an actual person well-known in the border area of the great North and Central American desert Southwest: Teresita Urrea, Santa de Cabora. Teresita is no ordinary girl. Born to an illiterate, poor Indian mother, she knows little about her past or her future. Teresita has no idea that her father is Do Sometimes I wished there were more stars with which to rate a book. This is one of those times. This book is worthy of far more than five measly stars. Much more. \"The Hummingbird's Daughter\" is about an actual person well-known in the border area of the great North and Central American desert Southwest: Teresita Urrea, Santa de Cabora. Teresita is no ordinary girl. Born to an illiterate, poor Indian mother, she knows little about her past or her future. Teresita has no idea that her father is Don Tomas Urrea, the wild and rich owner of a vast ranch in the Mexican state of Sinaloa. Teresita has no idea that Huila, the elderly healer who takes Teresita under her wing, knows secrets about her destiny. And she has no idea that soon all of Mexico will rise in revolution, crying out her name. When Teresita is but a teenager, learning from Huila the way plants can cure the sick and prayer can move the earth, she discovers an even greater gift: she has the power to heal. Her touch, like warm honey, melts away pain and suffering. But such a gift can be a burden, too. Before long, the Urrea ranch is crowded with pilgrims and with agents of a Mexican government wary of anything that might threaten its power. A superb and spectacular novel as grand as a western sunset. Full of cowboys and outlaws, Indian warriors and cantina beauties, silly men who drink too much and desert women who in their dreams travel to the seashore. The writing is flawless and filled with a mystical mix of fact, fiction and frivolity making this easily the best book of the year thus far. \"The Hummingbird's Daughter\" is far more than a story of a girl coming to terms with her destiny, with the miraculous, and with the power of faith. It is the tale of a father discovering what true love is and a daughter recognizing that sometimes true love requires true sacrifice. \"The Hummingbird's Daughter\" is Luis Alberto Urrea's majestic masterpiece, the story of one girl's life and the swollen heart of all Mexico. You will fall in love with our sister nation to the south and its people and their rich heritage and culture. iViva Teresita, la Santa de Cabora! iViva the beautiful People and traditions of Mexico and the country of Mexico itself! iViva el Luis Alberto Urrea! I can't wait to read more from this incredibly talented and entertaining writer. ...more In the second half of the nineteenth century, a little girl is born to a laborer on a large ranch in Sinaloa, Mexico. Her father is unknown and her mother soon abandons her, but she scrambles her way to survival under the eye of her aunt and a favored servant at the patr\u00f3n \u2019s house\u2014Huila, the local curandera . The curandera , believing her marked with spiritual potential, begins to teach her what she knows. Thus begins an extraordinary tale at once mundane and magical. It draws in politics, history, In the second half of the nineteenth century, a little girl is born to a laborer on a large ranch in Sinaloa, Mexico. Her father is unknown and her mother soon abandons her, but she scrambles her way to survival under the eye of her aunt and a favored servant at the patr\u00f3n \u2019s house\u2014Huila, the local curandera . The curandera , believing her marked with spiritual potential, begins to teach her what she knows. Thus begins an extraordinary tale at once mundane and magical. It draws in politics, history, and spirituality, but is at its core a human story full of richly realized, believable characters. The reader comes to know all the characters as if experiencing the world from inside their skin; the author seems to be able to think his way alike into men and women, the educated and the ignorant, tribal people and Europeanized ones. The spiritual-magical elements seem as real to us as the physical aspects of human existence, and these worlds are both in dynamic tension with each other and interpenetrating. The language of the narration is beautiful, unfolding in precise yet evocative phrases. And I took particular pleasure in much of the dialogue, which went far toward establishing the unique presence of each character. The exchanges between Huila and Teresita, especially, were a continual delight. The arc of the protagonist\u2019s moral and spiritual journey, too, was satisfying; knowing when to end a tale is a gift few authors possess. I read the novel without knowing whether the people and events depicted were historical or invented. In the end it made no difference to me; though (view spoiler) [when I read the note at the end and learned that the characters were nearly all real and many were even members of the author\u2019s family, (hide spoiler) ] I was further impressed. The one thing I did not love was all the focus on bodily functions. Blood, piss, human odors, etc. were a constant presence. I\u2019m not squeamish, but this emphasis seemed otiose. This sort of description is sometimes a crutch used by authors seeking to evoke a realistic world; but I have always considered it a simulacrum of reality, and that true realism lies in the minds, hearts, and actions of the characters. That aside, I found myself captivated and absorbed in the world of the novel, and was moved by the story at every stage. A very impressive historical novel. ...more If you have read 100 Years of Solitude and are looking for a dam good story in the vein of magical realism (yes its still alive), I highly recommend this book. if you want a good peak into Mexican history around the end of the 19th century, this is a good start. This is the story of Teresita Urrea, \"La Santa de la Cabora\", who was not only a real person from Mexican history but an actual relative of the author, Luis Alberta Urrea. Yet, in Urrea's fictional style, I kept thinking what a great yarn If you have read 100 Years of Solitude and are looking for a dam good story in the vein of magical realism (yes its still alive), I highly recommend this book. if you want a good peak into Mexican history around the end of the 19th century, this is a good start. This is the story of Teresita Urrea, \"La Santa de la Cabora\", who was not only a real person from Mexican history but an actual relative of the author, Luis Alberta Urrea. Yet, in Urrea's fictional style, I kept thinking what a great yarn. But is this true? How much is true? Does it really matter? Because if it were true, would we believe it? Her \"sainthood\" begins Teresita is \"attacked\", and while she is recovering at home, she dies. Yet on the third day, while her body is lying on the kitchen table during a funeral wake, she wakes up terrifying the women gathered around. upon seeing her coffin, exclaims, \" I am not going into that?\" The women think she is a witch or \"worse\", death wants to see what life is like. She obviously went into a coma or some form of trauma but this was 1890 Mexico and, lacking certain medical skills, it seemed to them like she came back from death. After this she begins curing people and then some 1,200 Yaqui pilgrims begin camping out on her father's ranch in Sonora. The government labels her \"the most dangerous woman in Mexico\" and both Teresita and her father are exiled to America. The government fears killing her would bring about martyrdom and raise up an indiginous war. The Catholic church labels her a heritic but she is beloved by the Yaqui and Mayo indians of Sonora. This is a tale of a family, politics, religion and of course, social issues. Told by Urrea, the magic, the wit and the drama are all here. Like 100 Years, the book takes awhile to unfold but Urrea's delightful style, chock full of jokes. Sometimes one does need to know some of his references (one can typically infer what he means but his colourful language made me laugh throughout. Unlike 100 Years, this book has a sequel, which I can't seem to find in Spanish! Arghh. I did read it in Spanish. Dam, it really felt Mexican but Urrea writes in English. Good translation by his cousin, Enrique Hubbard Urrea. ...more Maybe I should recuse myself because I\u2019m so partial to magical realism, but I think from any perspective whatsover, The Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter is a joy of a book. Luis Urrea is dealing here not just with history, but the history and politics of his family and of his family\u2019s native land. So, family saga/historical fiction, politics, religion (\u201cEven worse than politics,\u201d says one Captain), revolution, and more. A rich mix that would defeat a lesser writer, but Urrea is unquestionably up to the ch Maybe I should recuse myself because I\u2019m so partial to magical realism, but I think from any perspective whatsover, The Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter is a joy of a book. Luis Urrea is dealing here not just with history, but the history and politics of his family and of his family\u2019s native land. So, family saga/historical fiction, politics, religion (\u201cEven worse than politics,\u201d says one Captain), revolution, and more. A rich mix that would defeat a lesser writer, but Urrea is unquestionably up to the challenge. We begin in the 1870\u2019s when a Mexican Patron impregnates a young peasant girl, who walks away from her infant daughter. Said daughter turns out to be a precocious child and falls under the tutelage of the rancho\u2019s curadora or healer/midwife. These people deal in spiritual matters every but as much as they do in herbs, and Huila, as the old woman is named, can spot a dreamer when she sees one. \u201cTeresita\u201d (as she names herself) soon becomes expert and understanding and guiding not only her dreams but those of others. How this all affects the war between Porfirio Diaz and Mexico\u2019s indigenous people, how it affects the life of the author, how it affects thousands of sick and ignorant nineteenth century people looking for any sign of hope in their poverty and misery, how women fare in a world of war and macho men--that\u2019s the book. And I don\u2019t want to tell more because it needs to be experienced in the writing rather than just talked about. And the experience is transporting. The obvious reminders here are Garcia-Marquez and Allende, but influenced as he is by such, Urrea is his own man, and The Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter, which was a finalist for the Pulitzer, deserved the prize. I don\u2019t know if it was competing in the same year as The Tinkers (See Writer Working, March 13 \u201911), which won one, but if so, boy, howdy, did the committee misfire. The reason I picked this book up is that Urrea will be the leader of my group at the Tin House Writers\u2019 workshop in Portland this summer. I\u2019d never read anything of his before. Now I have, and \u201cpleased\u201d doesn\u2019t begin to express how I much I\u2019m looking forward. ...more This book is haunting. I think that's the only word I can find for it right now. The characters are swirling around in my mind and I am trying to make sense of them. Teresita is a child born into poverty, given up by her mother, raised on a rancho in Mexico. She soon begins to learn the arts of a curandera (a healer) - and she also discovers that she is the child of a fling between her mother and the head of the rancho. I loved following her life - as she learns the art of childbirth and healing, This book is haunting. I think that's the only word I can find for it right now. The characters are swirling around in my mind and I am trying to make sense of them. Teresita is a child born into poverty, given up by her mother, raised on a rancho in Mexico. She soon begins to learn the arts of a curandera (a healer) - and she also discovers that she is the child of a fling between her mother and the head of the rancho. I loved following her life - as she learns the art of childbirth and healing, I believed it. I loved the relationship between her and her father, Tomas, I loved how it ebbed along as events unfolded. My favorite part in the book was when her father helped her to clean the sores and kill the lice out of an orphans head wounds - I was moved to tears to see how she had softened the heart of her brute of a father. I was especially touched by his fierce loyalty to her in the end - it felt truly redeeming. The book took me to places I had not imagined when I opened the first page. Granted, it was not always a lovely place - it was a hard and violent life out in the wilds of Mexico, and, frankly, so full of unfamiliar names for me to remember!!! My complete lack of Spanish was a challenge, since rarely was anything translated, but I don't think I really missed anything. The time and place was made so real for me - I have read very little of Mexico, but this rang so TRUE. The book felt so completely researched - all the descriptions of places and, especially, the food they ate. I was truly transported to the Mexico of the late 19th century. It reminded me a lot of One Hundred Days of Solitude, which I loved as well - but I love this for different reasons. The \"magical\" of this book seemed somehow sacred, somehow real to me, not like magic at all - more like true acts of faith. Teresita's rise to sainthood was remarkable - I loved her as a character, for her strength, her faith, her true desire to only do God's will and to make peace where she could. The writing was lyrical and superb. An epic tale of an incredible girl. ...more Teresa Urea was a historical figure who was born Sinaloa, Mexico, in the mid-19th century. She became nationally known as a healer (curandera) and vigorous defender of the rights of The People--the indigenous tribes of Mexico. She was widely held to be a saint--the Saint of Cobera, where she lived until she was 19. Her father, Tom\u00e1s, was a wealthy landowner in the state of Sonora. The author, who is related to Teresita, has written an absolutely remarkable novel around what facts are known of thi Teresa Urea was a historical figure who was born Sinaloa, Mexico, in the mid-19th century. She became nationally known as a healer (curandera) and vigorous defender of the rights of The People--the indigenous tribes of Mexico. She was widely held to be a saint--the Saint of Cobera, where she lived until she was 19. Her father, Tom\u00e1s, was a wealthy landowner in the state of Sonora. The author, who is related to Teresita, has written an absolutely remarkable novel around what facts are known of this young curandera\u2019s life. It is utterly absorbing. Somehow, Urrea achieves a delicate balance between relating the atrocities--the genocide--that the Mexican government of the time, under Porfirio Diaz\u2019 dictatorship, against The People with an incredibly tender account of Teresita\u2019s life. It\u2019s filled with a gentle humor while dispassionately recounting the sometimes brutal relationships within families. But Urrea\u2019s greatest achievement in this book is his characterizations of two women: Teresita and her teacher, the curandera Huila. It is rare, in my opinion, that a male author can really capture the nature of women well in a novel, but Urrea does so. The two women could not be more different; Teresita retains innocence despite the harshness of her early life, while Huila is wise, a state in which innocence is impossible. The lives of these two women light up the book. Other characters are well-drawn as well: Aguirre, the e3ngineer, who flees to RTexas and published incendiary articles urging revolution in Mexico; Segundo, the ranch foreman; and Tom\u00e1s himself, with the two women forming the trinity that propels the story forward. I could not put this book down; I read it in two sittings. The story is absorbing and the lives of Teresita, Huila, and Tom\u00e1s and the times they lived in are utterly fascinating. Urrea\u2019s excellent writing is infused with a real love for his three main characters that illuminates the entire book. Not to be missed. ...more In \u201cThe Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter\u201d, the Mexican-born writer Luis Alberto Urrea takes up the story of his great-aunt, the half-Indian seer who became known by the people, not the Church, as Santa Teresa of Cabora. Teresa lived during in Northwest Mexico, then one of the most disconnected regions of her poor, sprawling country, across the border from the harshest part of the Old West. As a girl, she emerged from a trance with gifts: she cured the desperately ill with herbs and the laying on of hands In \u201cThe Hummingbird\u2019s Daughter\u201d, the Mexican-born writer Luis Alberto Urrea takes up the story of his great-aunt, the half-Indian seer who became known by the people, not the Church, as Santa Teresa of Cabora. Teresa lived during in Northwest Mexico, then one of the most disconnected regions of her poor, sprawling country, across the border from the harshest part of the Old West. As a girl, she emerged from a trance with gifts: she cured the desperately ill with herbs and the laying on of hands and moved the local populace with her homilies about justice It was Teresa\u2019s misfortune, and that of her people, to live during the long dictatorship of Porfirio Diaz, whose religion was commerce and the obliteration of anyone who disagreed. While Teresa seems never to have actively fomented rebellion, there were some among her listeners who had taken up arms or were ready to do so, and the Diaz government was never one to wait for proof. Urrea focuses on Teresa\u2019s story, not the rebellion, which was brutally repressed. As a writer with a dark and irreverent sense of humor, Urrea writes mordant characters well: Teresa\u2019s father, the curandera who teaches her herbs, and the newspaperman Lauro Aguirre. His wit is genial enough to excuse those moments when his characters sound too modern for their times. This is territory Urrea knows well, and his sense of the landscape and the people who scratch a living (or don\u2019t) from it have an authentic feel \u2013 with one critical exception, for which he may be excused: Teresa herself. He never solves the mystery of who this gifted, strange girl actually was, cannot convey to the reader a plausible sense of what kind of thoughts, feelings, and internal life she might have had. As a girl, barely an adolescent, with the power to heal the body and stir the soul, she may not be a personage who can be reduced to print. Still, this is a compelling story otherwise largely forgotten, Urrea gives it life, and that is an achievement by itself. ...more I've just written a review and it's vanished into the ether, so this is a second try. First of all, I didn't finish this book and this is extremely rare for me. Normally, |I feel like I have to stick it out to the last page but this one was too much for me. I know now, having looked at what other people have said, that so many people love this book that I am in a tiny minority. But truly, I disliked it enough to leave it about one third of the way through. It was recommended by a friend and I rea I've just written a review and it's vanished into the ether, so this is a second try. First of all, I didn't finish this book and this is extremely rare for me. Normally, |I feel like I have to stick it out to the last page but this one was too much for me. I know now, having looked at what other people have said, that so many people love this book that I am in a tiny minority. But truly, I disliked it enough to leave it about one third of the way through. It was recommended by a friend and I read it on a Kindle, knowing nothing about it at all. Had I known more, I might have liked it more. And I don't feel that's a good thing. I like to start a book rather like an adventure: what will I find here? To know that I'm reading the story of someone's relative who is regarded as a saint then somehow becomes a bit of a burden for me - do I have to like it because of how and why it was written? Please don't think I always feel bound to react badly to a book because it's written about family members - I recently read \"Half Broke Horses\" by Jeannette Walls and thoroughly enjoyed it. But this book was different. First of all, I speak very little Spanish so often didn't understand comments and asides by the characters. And I wasn't engaged by any of them, in fact, I felt much of the time that the writing style was pushing me away rather than drawing me in. Secondly, I was having trouble finding the plot. There were a great many characters (or so it seemed to me) and I couldn't tell which actions or discussions were taking things forward and which were almost irrelevant, as they seemed neither to advance plot not illuminate character. Being interested in neither characters not plot, I gave up. I wanted to like it. And I didn't. ...more Based on the legend of Urrea's sainted cousin, the author uses historical fiction to bring 16 year old Teresita to life, during a period of violence and political upheaval in Mexico, near the end of the 19th century. What I liked about the book: learning about Mexican culture, the civil war and some of it's causes, Teresita's early life and her relationship with her father. I am fascinated with the lives of saints, and was excited to learn that The Hummingbird's Daughter would chronicle such a li Based on the legend of Urrea's sainted cousin, the author uses historical fiction to bring 16 year old Teresita to life, during a period of violence and political upheaval in Mexico, near the end of the 19th century. What I liked about the book: learning about Mexican culture, the civil war and some of it's causes, Teresita's early life and her relationship with her father. I am fascinated with the lives of saints, and was excited to learn that The Hummingbird's Daughter would chronicle such a life, but this is by no means a religious book. In fact, it has a distinctly secular tone. What I didn't like about the book: The characters are really kept at arms length. Despite the abundance of drama in the book, I never felt connected to any of these people. I wish the author had included more background information because much of the culture and politics of 19th century Mexico eludes me. I felt thrust into the midst of it without reference, and it left me with many questions unanswered. I have, on several occasions, tried to read novels about Latin America, and have never found one that I really enjoyed. I don't know if something gets lost in the translation, or if I just lack enough background information about the culture and history of Latin America to truly enjoy what I'm reading. I will say that this novel is one of the better ones I've read, but I still can't give it more than 3 stars. ...more I ADORED this book. I almost don't want to write a review of it because I don't believe I can do it justice. It took my breath away with the beauty of the prose; the full, flawed characters; and the grand sweep of the story. I am not exaggerating when I say that this book both inspired me to write again and made me want to walk away from writing forever because how does one write something when there is a book as beautiful as this in the world. It's hard not to love Teresita and to become comple I ADORED this book. I almost don't want to write a review of it because I don't believe I can do it justice. It took my breath away with the beauty of the prose; the full, flawed characters; and the grand sweep of the story. I am not exaggerating when I say that this book both inspired me to write again and made me want to walk away from writing forever because how does one write something when there is a book as beautiful as this in the world. It's hard not to love Teresita and to become completely enraptured with her story. But my favorite character was Huila. She was the kind of woman I wish I had more of in my life: funny, so in touch with the universe, and able to make hard choices. I have read this book several times (I actually got a copy of an ARC from a friend and have treasured it since) and I always love my time with her the best. The humor in the book actually surprised me quite a bit. It often came in the least expected places in subtle ways. Of course, there is heartbreak, too, much of it. And hope. And love. And adventure. And everything you would want from a book. The only criticism I had of it is that Urrea seems to like lists and there were a few points where the lists became just a tad tedious for me. I am sure they had their point, but it was admittedly lost on me. That, however, does nothing to change my unequivocal love for the book. A must-read. ...more<---C>Luis Alberto Urrea</---C>", "Title": "The Hummingbird's Daughter"},
