{"Comments": "As I began reading the 10th <---C>Harry Dresden</---C> novel, I started ticking off little mental bullet points: Sarcastic dialogue. Harry in more trouble than any 3 urban fantasy characters. The frenzied \"first climax\" that always happens in the middle of a Dresden novel. Repetitive info-dumping (description of Harry's beat up Volkswagen,<---M> Mouse the huge-ass dog</---M>, his big-ass cat, his pretty-boy vampire brother, his burned hand, his terrible youth, the tavern for supernaturals . . . you get the point) I began to As I began reading the 10th Harry Dresden novel, I started ticking off little mental bullet points: Sarcastic dialogue. Harry in more trouble than any 3 urban fantasy characters. The frenzied \"first climax\" that always happens in the middle of a Dresden novel. Repetitive info-dumping (description of Harry's beat up Volkswagen, Mouse the huge-ass dog, his big-ass cat, his pretty-boy vampire brother, his burned hand, his terrible youth, the tavern for supernaturals . . . you get the point) I began to wonder if I've grown weary of Butcher's series at this point. With all the, dare I say it, recycling of characters and plot points, <+++>Small Favor</+++> feels like \"been there, done that. We have Marcone messing with things, The Winter and Summer Courts causing Harry trouble, Michael the Knight and Thomas the Vamp. It feels like Butcher is coasting a little bit. Don't get me wrong, <+++>Small Favor</+++> is still enjoyable. If you like the Dresden series, it should satisfy that Harry Dresden itch. But I wish Butcher would mix it up a little bit more. He's beginning to do so, with Harry's Warden duties, his apprenticing of Molly, and so forth. I just wish he'd jump further away from his safe plot lines and venture into new territory. I'll still read the next Dresden novel. I love Harry, I like the dialog, and the writing is just plain fun. And I must admit, the last third of the book really picked up the action, and felt a bit more than going through the motions. I just hope the next novel wanders farther from the norm. ...<---F>more [4</---F>.5 Stars] Another solid story with a stellar narration, even if I think James Marsters is sort of backtracking and doing fewer distinct voices. I'm crazy addicted to this story, and I simply don't think it is possible for me to not enjoy one of these books. This plot was, again, sort of all of the place and complicated, but <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> makes it work. I can't give less than 4 stars. On to the next! \"Hell's Bells\" count: 21 This is the tenth book in the series, and if Butcher's own plan can be trusted, it marks about the halfway point for the series as a whole. Having made it this far with the series is a remarkable achievement, and if he can keep it up all the way to its projected end, I will be a very happy and impressed reader. So, a few words about the book itself, and then some thoughts on the series. Honestly, if you've been following my reviews of this series, you can be pretty sure wh \"Hell's Bells\" count: 21 This is the tenth book in the series, and if Butcher's own plan can be trusted, it marks about the halfway point for the series as a whole. Having made it this far with the series is a remarkable achievement, and if he can keep it up all the way to its projected end, I will be a very happy and impressed reader. So, a few words about the book itself, and then some thoughts on the series. Honestly, if you've been following my reviews of this series, you can be pretty sure what I'm going to say about it - I devoured the book and enjoyed every minute of it. In this edition, Our Hero Harry is faced with death and danger on all sides, as usual. The everlasting Queen of the Winter Sidhe, Mab, wants Harry to rescue John Marcone, the boss of the biggest organized crime racket in the city, from the clutches of fallen angels who have immeasurable power and millennia of experience. What they want with Marcone - and other, more innocent and tragic characters - isn't clear, but what can can be sure of is that the full extent of their plans will far exceed simple kidnapping. Meanwhile, he's being attacked by agents of Queen Titania, the queen of the Summer Sidhe, for reasons that are not all that clear to anyone, especially Harry. His attackers are beasts of legend - the Gruffs. You may have heard of them when you were a child - goatlike creatures with a talent for eliminating trolls. They are brothers, and if you manage to defeat one of them, you can be sure that his big brother will be along soon to take care of you. And you most certainly don't want to get on the bad side of the eldest of the Gruffs, let me tell you that. Nice guy, but he's clean your clock no matter who you are. So, things aren't so good for Harry Dresden. But, then, when are they ever? Going up against forces way over his head is pretty much a theme for Harry's life, and while we can be reasonably certain that he will prevail (after all, there are about ten more books to go, and they'd be hard to write without him), we don't know how much damage he will take in the doing so. Although if you guessed \"a lot,\" you'd be pretty well on the mark. That goes for pretty much every book in the series. Harry is an underdog, or at least he starts out as one. By the time you get to this book, he has some measure of authority, responsibility and respect, as well as a serious reputation amongst people in this world and others. So, this makes it rather harder for him to be an underdog. Instead of simple vampires, werewolves and the occasional necromancer, we now have to deal with the Big Guns like Mab, Titania and The Fallen. Which brings me to my first prediction for the rest of the series. Harry Laid Low. At some point, I figure all that he's built up will have to come crashing down. Gross physical harm aside, he's put himself in a much better position than the one he was in way back in Storm Front , and if he continues the way he has, he will cease to be the underdog and become the overdog, if there is such a thing. While it'll be interesting to see how he handles being higher up on the food chain, I don't think it'll sit well with his character. That would be unfortunate, because it's Harry's character that really make this book. I've talked to those who aren't too keen on investing in this series because it's not quite different enough from the other modern, urban fantasy out there. And in a way, they're right. A lone wolf investigator with a mysterious past and unknowable potential who has a talent for making big enemies? That could either be this series or the Nightside books by Simon Green, and I'm sure there's a few more that follow a similar pattern. Butcher isn't breaking open new ground with this series, at least not as far as I can tell. And a main character who is a wizard named Harry with a mysterious destiny and a tragic past? Yeah, like I'm sure you haven't thought of it already. I don't think that's Butcher's fault, though. Harry seems to be the kind of character who shows up in a writer's head long before the book gets published, and Gary Dresden or Fred Dresden doesn't sound as good. Though Christopher Dresden has a nice ring to it, I must say. Why aren't there more fictional heroes named Chris, anyway? Weird. Back on topic - what Butcher has done, and what makes me enjoy this series so much, is take the genre and populate it with really interesting people. One of the things I enjoy so much about Harry is that he seems to be someone I'd like to hang out with - he has a sense of humor that I enjoy, and seeing how many of my friends tend towards wise-assery, I think we'd get along well. Other characters, like Murphy, Michael, Molly (lots of M names), Thomas, Bob, Mouse.... They're complex, they're interesting and occasionally surprising. You really come to care about them, because Harry cares about them and you care about Harry. Which reminds me: Predictions 2 and 3 - The Death of Karrin Murphy and The Corruption of Molly Carpenter . These are two people who are extremely close to Harry, and invoke his much-debated sense of male chauvinism. A few people seem to take issue with Harry's desire to protect women, which appears hopelessly old-fashioned. Maybe it is, but Harry (and by extension Butcher) seems to be okay with that. Murphy is Harry's best friend, the one character who's stood by him since the first book, and has grown to be his closest ally. She has gained his trust and his faith through fire and trial, and in this book is actually able to assert her authority (in a wonderful, wonderful scene) to save Harry's skin. So, she has to die. It's one of those Hero's Journey things - the hero has to lose those things closest to him in order to come out the other side as a True Hero. He needs Murphy, he really does, and he needs to be able to stand without her. If that means that she's taken out, well.... I don't know if or when it'll happen - I'd bet somewhere in the climactic final books. As for Molly, she's an interesting person. A young person who, after a very rocky start to her life as a magic-user, has been given a second chance by Harry. For his part, Harry's job is to make sure she turns out right, to make sure she learns how to use her powers responsibly and wisely, for the betterment of others. As of this book, she's doing very well - her powers are becoming more refined, and she's got a good handle on what it means to be a responsible wizard. But first, she has to see her dark side, look it in the eye, and face it down. So, at some point, Molly is going to slip. Whether through impatience, arrogance or circumstance, she's going to risk both her and Harry's lives by using her powers for Evil. There you go, then. It's a great series, very enjoyable, and I'll be following it to the end. I highly recommend you do the same. ...more Dresden always makes me feel good! 8.5/10 Easily in the top 3 of the Dresden Files series and I\u2019d go as far to say it\u2019s my second favourite unable to pip Dead Beat by just a fraction (minus a star for no Polka music). The whole book was just fun to read, maybe it was the snowy Chicago setting and reading this over Christmas and the lack of snow provided by the weird British weather systems here. That\u2019s a disservice though as there is so much going on in this book that it was hard to put this down and I was hooked up until the fina 8.5/10 Easily in the top 3 of the Dresden Files series and I\u2019d go as far to say it\u2019s my second favourite unable to pip Dead Beat by just a fraction (minus a star for no Polka music). The whole book was just fun to read, maybe it was the snowy Chicago setting and reading this over Christmas and the lack of snow provided by the weird British weather systems here. That\u2019s a disservice though as there is so much going on in this book that it was hard to put this down and I was hooked up until the final sentence. One thing that may have been a stroke of luck was that I listened to book 5, Death Masks, in the series which had many re-occurring plot points and characters in this book so these were nice and fresh in my mind. Things do get explained in the book to backfill which can be quite annoying at times, its book 10 of the series. I know Dresden is a wizard by now and that certain characters are linked to Harry. Sometimes it is handy as there have been 10 books and I\u2019m not reading back to back so I do forget certain plot points so I can let the re-caps slide. I won\u2019t reveal anything related to the plot as there would be some spoilers to things earlier in the series but there are some really good action scenes in this one with at least 3 specifically that spring to mind which had me figuratively on the edge of my seat. One scene specifically made me carry on reading until the book was finished even though it was way past my bedtime which shows how much I was into this book. The series continues to impress, 10 books in and I\u2019m happy that I\u2019ve still got a fair amount to go at. Jim Butcher manages to keep things interesting and unique enough in each book to make me want to grab the next one but also links them enough to make you care about the characters and what is going to happen to them and what is going to happen in the next outing. This is fast becoming one of my favourite series. ...more Giving a book 5 stars doesn't mean it's perfect. It's just that though I use it with a discriminative, fair, and remunerative sense of dosage, I know there are 2 farcical sides to this particular coin. First, for how long do I wait before ceding to impulse and rate a book 5 stars. Secondly, what do I do if, a week after giving Small Favor 5 stars, I chance on a book 10 times better? Cheerfully, those issues are non sequitur in my mind. Small Favor began slowly, embracing its pulpish roots and fl Giving a book 5 stars doesn't mean it's perfect. It's just that though I use it with a discriminative, fair, and remunerative sense of dosage, I know there are 2 farcical sides to this particular coin. First, for how long do I wait before ceding to impulse and rate a book 5 stars. Secondly, what do I do if, a week after giving Small Favor 5 stars, I chance on a book 10 times better? Cheerfully, those issues are non sequitur in my mind. Small Favor began slowly, embracing its pulpish roots and fleshing out its friendly universe where beings thrive even in places called Nevernever. I thought the musings of the Dresden Files, which earned my respect and interest by hitting on core metaphysical ideas, has been impotently pruned, in Small Favor, down to self help level. However, I underestimated Jim Butcher, and from the middle of the book to the twist of the last step, I was regaled with rich storytelling of the like that am grateful for. Definitely 5 star material. ...more About 1/4 into Small Favor I found myself wondering if Harry Dresden was about to magically jump a shark. By the end, I had decided it might be the best book in the series. Well, he actually does kind of jump a shark, but he was in an aquarium at the time. Favor put us firmly back in Dresden's home territory. Someone has kidnapped his least-favorite sometimes-ally \"Gentleman\" Marcone and he's being coerced into saving him by an old enemy. His allies in faerie-land are trying to kill him. His frie About 1/4 into Small Favor I found myself wondering if Harry Dresden was about to magically jump a shark. By the end, I had decided it might be the best book in the series. Well, he actually does kind of jump a shark, but he was in an aquarium at the time. Favor put us firmly back in Dresden's home territory. Someone has kidnapped his least-favorite sometimes-ally \"Gentleman\" Marcone and he's being coerced into saving him by an old enemy. His allies in faerie-land are trying to kill him. His friend Michael is seriously doubting whether Harry is trustworthy. And he winds up stuck in the convergence of conflicts between the Seelie and Unseelie courts and between the Knights of the Cross and the Denarian demons. And just for fun, with Kincaid and Sergeant Murphy along for the ride, still bristling from their breakup. Thematically, this book is about divided loyalties, trust, and--most centrally--what it means to be good instead of evil. The central morals of Harry, Sergeant Murphy, Michael, Sanyo (another Knight of the Cross), and even the mercenaries Kincaid and Gard are roughly similar, but each draws different lines around what is required and what is allowed to be good. Marcone and The Archive (a super-efficent magical database of all written knowledge ever, but housed in a little girl) serve as the background to the moral debate: Marcone's morality is strongly personal, running his criminal empire and ruining whatever lives it costs while still going out of his way to save and help individuals he sees in distress. The Archive is impersonal, fighting to keep emotional attachments from driving her insane while she hold humanity's heritage against any disaster. They are each afraid to join human society fully, worried that they won't be able to reconcile their job with their humanity. The book is back in classic Dresden form in other ways, too. Harry doesn't rely on odd moments of insight that come like deus ex machina in some of the other books. He doesn't build plans that last longer than a day. And he doesn't ever rely on his intelligence over his wit, his wits, and his ability to break things very, very well. He's good at mouthing off, pushing people into making mistakes, and doing not-subtle magic with collateral damage. And he has charisma and leadership only Murphy can match. In Small Favor he leaves the other stuff to the pros. Just like the good old days. In a lot of ways, this is what Storm Front would have been if Butcher had been a better writer at the time. It has more complex character interactions than the first book in a series can sustain and it assumes some (but not too much) knowledge of the backstory, but it hits the themes of the series without sacrificing the action and faith in himself that make Harry who he is. . ...more OH shizzle! This book was intense. Excellent though, and I loved the humor. I actually really enjoy the faith aspects of these books too, which isn't something that you'll see me say very often. I just really appreciate how Butcher manages issues of Good and Evil and God, god(s) and religion, or not so much religion but faith. I love Harry and I love these books. That's all that really needs to be said. Note the five stars and take what follows for what it's worth. I'm a few books ahead -- I'm just behind on posting. But this book, and another one to come, confirmed what I began to suspect a book or two ago, which is that Jim Butcher has developed a poker tell. I don't want to say much or I'll spoil the suspense for you the way Butcher has started to for me. I'll try to be vague enough that you won't know what I mean until you finish the book, look back with this review in mind, and get it. Maybe Note the five stars and take what follows for what it's worth. I'm a few books ahead -- I'm just behind on posting. But this book, and another one to come, confirmed what I began to suspect a book or two ago, which is that Jim Butcher has developed a poker tell. I don't want to say much or I'll spoil the suspense for you the way Butcher has started to for me. I'll try to be vague enough that you won't know what I mean until you finish the book, look back with this review in mind, and get it. Maybe you won't agree. Either way, I'd love to chat about this with a Dresden fan. Harry Dresden is a fully-developed character -- a human on the page, as it will. Prick him and he bleeds and all that. Except. Except he's starting not to respond to events the way I've so far been able to count on him responding. The guy started off one of his own novels being physically ill because he was upset by the violence he'd just witnessed. He's not Clint Eastwood, nor does he want to be. I hate being kept in suspense too long as much as any reader, but I'm annoyed that I'm starting to say, \"Oh, wait -- it's going to be okay\" long before I've been given official word that things are, in fact, okay. If you've read the series -- the whole series, not just up to this book -- go ahead and read the spoiler below. If you haven't read the series but think you might, DON'T read the spoiler, because it turns out that word is entirely accurate. (view spoiler) [Harry Dresden didn't react at all to the fact that he'd witnessed his dog being murdered a book or two ago, and that's how I knew his dog was somehow actually okay. He had the same utter lack of reaction when he saw Michael shot in a way that should have meant the end of Michael. And hey, look! Jokey-jokey time right after Butters takes a well-aimed bullet from a professional killer, and guess who's okay after all? (hide spoiler) ] Somebody tell Butcher that he keeps giving his hand away. I'm very surprised his agent and/or editor haven't caught this tell, but it's real and it's kind of a bummer to hardcore nerd readers like me. He still gets five stars, though, because he's still doing everything else right. ...more Jim Butcher's Dresden Files takes a bit of a break from the supernatural conflict that has been the focus of the last several novels with great success. The entire conflict isn't ignored and it is always present, though it may be on the back burner for \"Small Favor.\" During an October blizzard, Harry is called on to deliver one of his two remaining favors for Mav. Gentlemen Johnny Marcone has disappeared and Mav tasks Harry with finding him and returning him safely. But another side is out for Ha Jim Butcher's Dresden Files takes a bit of a break from the supernatural conflict that has been the focus of the last several novels with great success. The entire conflict isn't ignored and it is always present, though it may be on the back burner for \"Small Favor.\" During an October blizzard, Harry is called on to deliver one of his two remaining favors for Mav. Gentlemen Johnny Marcone has disappeared and Mav tasks Harry with finding him and returning him safely. But another side is out for Harry--the Denarians. And they have all kind of lethal and nasty things that are out for Harry's blood--literally. As always, Jim Butcher delivers the goods with the latest Harry Dresden novel. But where the last few books have all been what I'd call \"arc heavy\" this one takes a few moments to slow down a bit and focus on the characters. Events move forward in the lives of several characters, especially Harry Dresden and Karin Murphy. No, they don't get together, but there are some nice moments between the two and both do have some significant steps forward in their various romantic entanglements. Also appearing in Michael, Harry's friend and wielder of one of three sacred swords. Butcher is a master of weaving in on-going plot threads from previous novels in authentic ways. And in keeping the reader in the loop enough to understand what's happening without feeling the urge to jump back three books and find that one small detail to understand everything going on. I'm sure those who want to do that are being justly rewarded, but the rest of us are able to enjoy the latest exploits of Dresden and to get some payoff on previously introduced plot elements. The only problem I have is since I'm now caught up on the Dresden Files, I have to wait a good chunk of time for the next one... ...more Another great entry in the series. Great audio narration from James Marsters as usual. Plenty of action this book starting from the first few minutes. The war with the Red Court might have cooled down temporarily but Harry has peeved off quite a few nasties so far in the series and a lot of them come back round to bite him in the ass. Good thing it's tough as leather. Or at least it's covered with leather infused with magic shielding. It's a bit hard to review this one because mentioning the bigg Another great entry in the series. Great audio narration from James Marsters as usual. Plenty of action this book starting from the first few minutes. The war with the Red Court might have cooled down temporarily but Harry has peeved off quite a few nasties so far in the series and a lot of them come back round to bite him in the ass. Good thing it's tough as leather. Or at least it's covered with leather infused with magic shielding. It's a bit hard to review this one because mentioning the biggest baddest baddies on the block is spoilery. We've seen them before. Apart from them we have the Faerie courts involved. We have Gruffs - yes, as in Billy goats gruff. Which means they can kill trolls, which means when they come gunning for Harry it's time to scramble. Some favourite characters that feature include Kincaid, Michael, Sanya (I just dig Marsters Russian mafia accent), Murphy of course, Luccio and more. So Harry has plenty of backup. And he'll need them because when Mab comes to collect on one of the favors Harry owes her she doesn't take no for an answer. The whole \"I'll only do those favors I choose\" routine isn't going to work this time. Lots of interesting plot elements, some new characters, some new creatures, some intense battle scenes, and Harry levels up. Very nice. 4 stars ...more The very first thing I have to say about this book is: How in the world do people live in places where it snows? I mean, the descriptions in this book of living in a place with snow during the winter sounds soooooo miserable! I can't even imagine having to dig my car out of ice, or shovel my walkway in order to leave my house each day. You people must be insane or something! this would be me at the airport upon landing in the place where there is snow Harry needs to move to the South. His long co The very first thing I have to say about this book is: How in the world do people live in places where it snows? I mean, the descriptions in this book of living in a place with snow during the winter sounds soooooo miserable! I can't even imagine having to dig my car out of ice, or shovel my walkway in order to leave my house each day. You people must be insane or something! this would be me at the airport upon landing in the place where there is snow Harry needs to move to the South. His long coat and cowboy boots would fit in better here too. Plus, we like guns. They pretty much give you a gun in your welcome basket upon moving to Texas. It's our thing. Even our zoo animals are armed here... Even Harry recognizes that it's our thing: He had enough guns strapped to his body to outfit a terrorist cell, or a Texan nuclear family... Murphy and Kincaid would love it here! On to the book! So, in a previous book, many books ago, Harry had to make a deal with Mab, Queen of the Winter Fae Unseelie Court, to win his freedom back from a stupid deal he made in his childhood. He had to promise her three favors. He did one, and owes her two. Well, it's time to open door number two: find and free the local gangster, Johnnie Marcone, from his kidnappers. Sounds easy enough, huh? Hahaha! Nothing is ever easy for Harry! He is the king of Murphy's Law. So, things get complicated, Harry makes a bunch of smartass remarks, Thomas looks beautiful, Murphy is a badass, Molly sneaks in, Bob says something smarmy, and lots of people get hurt........the end.... What I am really hoping for is for Butcher to break the meta at this point. I like the books, and I'm okay if they stay the same, but I'm hoping for a really big shake-up somewhere down the line. That would be pretty cool. ...more Book 10 of the Dresden Files finds Harry fighting the Denarians, his old foes that have been showing up consistently throughout the series and it does so in what I can only call a very atmospheric setting, one of cold and snow that you can almost feel pouring through the pages. In that regard, the book is extremely well crafted but my main quibble is the plot: I got confused yet again and there were times when I couldn't tell what exactly the Summer Queen had to do with the rest of the story or Book 10 of the Dresden Files finds Harry fighting the Denarians, his old foes that have been showing up consistently throughout the series and it does so in what I can only call a very atmospheric setting, one of cold and snow that you can almost feel pouring through the pages. In that regard, the book is extremely well crafted but my main quibble is the plot: I got confused yet again and there were times when I couldn't tell what exactly the Summer Queen had to do with the rest of the story or why she had appeared to Harry in the first place asking for help. I don't know if this just me or if it is something Jim Butcher does on purpose, seeing as he is keeping well under wraps anything related to the mysterious Black Council so that most of the reasons why things happen are kept very vague. But the story leaves very little time to ponder on that so it could reasonably be a very minor objection in the grand scheme of things: this is an action packed book, more so than the others in the series, and whatever reservations one might have about the plot are quickly swept away by the awesome action sequences, which only get better and better with each book. Although there are no big reveals or unexpected twists, the story is very well written and we keep learning more about Harry not because of whatever might have happened in his past but for his actions and thoughts- in this regard, using the first person becomes and invaluable tool as we have direct access to everything Harry is thinking at any given moment, giving us an insight on his mind that we wouldn't otherwise have. Even though he's getting tired of so much fighting and putting his life on the line all the time, there's always time for wit and sarcasm in what little comic relief we get in between chases and attacks, and that's always very welcome. This book includes almost all the cast of secondary characters the series has: Thomas, The Knights of the Cross, Marcone, Murphy, Kincaid and The Archive. The ending felt too abrupt for my taste, it wouldn't have hurt to have given The Archive and Michael a little more time to express themselves. All in all, and considering that this is the tenth book in the series and one could argue Jim Butcher has been recycling the same elements for that long, my rating still will be 5 stars. Because the book, in the end, is awesome. ...more I feel like I need to apologize for giving this only 4 stars. I liked this one a lot, but I just finished another book in this same series and I absolutely loved that one.....so by comparison, this one gets 4 stars. This one dealt a lot with the politics in the wizard-ing world, I think that is why I deducted a star. This series is one of my all time favorites. I'll try and reign in my gushing. Executive Summary: Another great entry in the series. Instead of running on too long and rehashing old ideas, Mr. Butcher keeps ratcheting things up and making you want more. Audio book: James Marsters? Check. Awesome reading? Check. He has me dreading Ghost Story , because I know he won't be reading it. I really can't imagine anyone else doing this series justice. Full Review This one is even better than I remember, but still not quite as enjoyable for me as White Night is. I'm not really sure wh Executive Summary: Another great entry in the series. Instead of running on too long and rehashing old ideas, Mr. Butcher keeps ratcheting things up and making you want more. Audio book: James Marsters? Check. Awesome reading? Check. He has me dreading Ghost Story , because I know he won't be reading it. I really can't imagine anyone else doing this series justice. Full Review This one is even better than I remember, but still not quite as enjoyable for me as White Night is. I'm not really sure why either. It's got a lot of my favorite supporting characters like the Knights of the Cross, Kincaid and the Archive as well as the regulars (Murphy, Thomas, Molly). It's got a return of some of the series best villains too. Not to mention the general premise: Mab shows up to collect on a favor (hence the title). But of course the title is ironic, because the favor she wants is for him to be the emissary for Winter and to help \"Gentleman\" Johnny Marcone. You can bet Dresden is just thrilled at the prospect, and eagerly agrees. Or maybe she has to twist his arm a little.. I had forgotten about some of the more important details of this book. It really made for a pleasurable rereading. This isn't Malazan or anything, but I was surprised to see some of the setup and foreshadowing taking place here that I missed the first go round. This book also put an idea into my head that Mr. Butcher has been taunting us all with ever since. (view spoiler) [Murphy taking up Fidelacchius. (hide spoiler) ] The level of action is a little down from last one. Maybe that's why it's not quite a 5 star for me (that and I'm stingy), but it's a very high 4 stars. ...more Some Big Ideas Get Messy - 3.5 Stars Random Ramblings The 10th installment of the Dresden files is a story of two book (well, three if you are counting storylines). Jim Butcher was flexing his storytelling muscles with what was probably his most complicated plot. I have said it many times in my reviews of the previous 9 books and I will say it again. While the Dresden Files may not be my favorite UF Series and while Jim Butcher may not be the best writer of UF, I think he stands alone as the Some Big Ideas Get Messy - 3.5 Stars Random Ramblings The 10th installment of the Dresden files is a story of two book (well, three if you are counting storylines). Jim Butcher was flexing his storytelling muscles with what was probably his most complicated plot. I have said it many times in my reviews of the previous 9 books and I will say it again. While the Dresden Files may not be my favorite UF Series and while Jim Butcher may not be the best writer of UF, I think he stands alone as the best UF Storyteller. Despite some failings in this installment, the story is fresh and the series chugs along. Plot summary To this point, the plot in Small Favor is the most complex yet. Three major plotlines are at work, and as usual, all the plotlines are out for Harry's destruction. The story begins with the Wicked Mab calling on Harry to fulfil one of his two remaining favors. Marcone, the gentleman mobster, has gone missing and Mab requires a small favor. Rescue Marcone as Winter's champion and one more debt will be paid. The second plotline has Harry running from the multiple assassination attempts of the Summer Court. For a reason not immediately known to Harry, he is in their crosshairs and he is forced to dodge the cloven hooves of the Gruff Brothers. The third plotlines plots Harry against his old nemesis Nicodemus and the Denarians. When the plotlines converge there is mayhem, swordplay, wailing and gnashing of teeth and one delicious donut. Seriously, there coffee and donuts involved. The Good No Lone Cowboy Jim Butcher continues to move away from Harry the Lone Cowboy motif. I enjoy reading about Harry fighting with a group. Harry goes to battle with the biggest supporting cast and when the fight is on, it is pretty spectacular. That said.... Awesome Battle Scenes When Harry is involved, things tend to explode or burst into flames. This is book is no exception. There is a great fight scene that takes place in the Shedd Aquarium. As best as I can tell, no dolphins were harmed in the writing the scene. The final battle scene may be one of my favorites. It was a great setting, a great cast of character and pretty darn exciting. Seriously people, watch where you are going if you ever sail on lake Michigan! The Bad Confusion This was the biggest downfall of the story. While the plotlines meshed nicely at the end, the storylines were not always clear and made for a busy and cluttered story. While the plotline with the Gruff Brothers provided some fun and a bit of action, it seemed unnecessary and slowed the story. Unknown Characters My wife claims from time to time that I do not pay attention to what I am doing. Actually, it may be that my parents, teachers and a host of other people have been saying that since I was a toddler. Several characters were introduced that Harry seemed to know quite well and with whom he had shared some experiences. It may have been that the appeared in other books. If that is the case, at least clue the reader into this fact. If not, give us a bit of background. Again, this left me confused at time. Final Thoughts The roughly written plot left me wanting more but the superb ending and battle scene left me giving the book a thumbs up in the end. Ten books and I still want to read more about Harry. This is quite an accomplishment and a testament to authors skill. Audiobook Notes Content Advisories It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested. I make an effort to give you the information so you can make an informed decision before reading. *Disclaimer* I do not take note or count the occurrences of adult language as I read. I am simply giving approximations. Scale 1 - Lowest 5 - Highest Sex - 2.5 Harry usually has little time for sex. If he is not dodging fireballs and lightning, he is usually too tired or too beat up for carnal pleasures. This time around Harry does get a bit frisky in midst of his current crisis. That said, there are two scene that are only low to moderately graphic with some discussion on the subject at a later time. Language - 2.5 As usual, the author keeps adult language to a minimum. There is low usage of the religious exclamations (mostly because one of God's warriors is with Harry and he frown of using God's name is vain :) and low usage of other minor adult language. I did notice a higher usage of the f-word than in previous books which resulted in a higher grading. Violence - 4 There is plenty of magical and gun related violence throughout the book. While the quantity of violence may be high, it tends not be graphic in nature. It is only rarely gory or bloody. ...more I really liked this audio book - there were a lot of characters, and the narrator did a great job with all the voices. There was also a lot happening, keeping me on the edge of my seat - but I'm happy to say this time the author avoided hour long fight scenes. Lastly, I had MANY laugh out loud moments, which is always great when you are stuck in horrible traffic. Thanks Sonja for introducing me to this audio series! First read 10-22 July, 2010. Re-read 13-26 May, 2014. First review: This one felt a little slow out of the starting gate, but it definitely picked up momentum as it went along. There are so many irons in the fire now, along with a number of significant things that I\u2019m still wrapping my head around, that it feels premature to comment in a lot of spoiler-y detail about what went on in this installment. I like Butcher's inclusion of Christianity in Harry's world. Although I'm rather nominally Christi First read 10-22 July, 2010. Re-read 13-26 May, 2014. First review: This one felt a little slow out of the starting gate, but it definitely picked up momentum as it went along. There are so many irons in the fire now, along with a number of significant things that I\u2019m still wrapping my head around, that it feels premature to comment in a lot of spoiler-y detail about what went on in this installment. I like Butcher's inclusion of Christianity in Harry's world. Although I'm rather nominally Christian and my worldview is closer to Harry's than Michael's, I really like how there's room for an array of beliefs and opinions in the Dresden stories. I like how Father Forthill helps out with various situations; and I like how he and Harry mostly agree to disagree, while Forthill continues to believe that Harry is a good man and part of God's plan. I really like Harry and Michael's solid friendship. Michael's Christian faith is depicted as another form of power, a type of magic all its own. Previously introduced characters were well-used in this book. As usual, the plotting was complex and intense. As usual, Harry\u2019s dialogue often made me laugh. (And now the t-shirt with the line about sprinkles makes sense.) As usual, I cared what happened to significant characters. And, as usual, Butcher left me wanting more. A few comments from the second reading: This time around, it didn't feel slower out of the starting gate to me. I may have enjoyed it more the second time. The Eldest Brother Gruff sequence--while channeling Yoda a bit--is just delicious. I always enjoy seeing how people can work around the rules of the Fae. To those who see Harry's--and, I presume, Butcher's--worldview as chauvinism: Gard and Luccio coming to the rescue with the helicopter is just one more way I'd refute that charge. Michael's injuries, and others' reactions to them, still choked me up the second time around, even though I knew he'd mostly recover. But I disagree with the assessment that hospital waiting rooms are quiet. At least around here, all those I've been in have had a TV. Often tuned to some annoying talk show. I'd forgotten some things about this book--largely things that led up to the events of Changes and Cold Days and that are more significant now that I've read those later novels. I'm having a strong suspicion it was a really good idea to re-read this right before the release of Skin Game . ...more Book Info : Genre : Urban Fantasy Reading Level : Adult Recommended for : Fans of Urban Fantasy My Thoughts : The Dresden Files books that deal with the Sidhe always amuse me. I can\u2019t say why I find them particularly amusing, other than Butcher does a fabulous job of following the traditional faery lore, but I tend to enjoy these the most. I loved Sanya\u2019s reaction to Murphy. \u201c I like her... she is tiny, but fierce. \u201d Tiny but fierce women seem to appeal to Russians, as least based upon my limited experien Book Info : Genre : Urban Fantasy Reading Level : Adult Recommended for : Fans of Urban Fantasy My Thoughts : The Dresden Files books that deal with the Sidhe always amuse me. I can\u2019t say why I find them particularly amusing, other than Butcher does a fabulous job of following the traditional faery lore, but I tend to enjoy these the most. I loved Sanya\u2019s reaction to Murphy. \u201c I like her... she is tiny, but fierce. \u201d Tiny but fierce women seem to appeal to Russians, as least based upon my limited experience of my tiny but fierce Russian mother-in-law, who is also on her third husband, and whom I quite adore. Sanya\u2019s descriptions of what it\u2019s like to be a black man in Russia are right on; my husband says there are hardly any. (And no one call me on the PC bandwagon; you can\u2019t call a black Russian an African-American. Maybe an African-Russian? *shrug* But not all black people are of African descent, you know\u2014he might be Moorish for all I know\u2014and I can\u2019t make any sort of stab at Sanya\u2019s genealogy, so I just have to go with that.) I also enjoyed the gruffs. Those are some cool faeries, I tell ya, especially Elder Brother and Eldest Brother Gruff. We also learn more about the Denarians, Archangels, the Knights of the Cross... Butcher\u2019s world is very complex, and it\u2019s coming together nicely now. Folks who haven\u2019t read the full series might miss some of these details, but I\u2019m enjoying watching it all ratchet together like a jigsaw puzzle. Great stuff. Disclosure : I purchased this book in hardcover for myself, and backup e-book copy. All opinions are my own. Synopsis : Harry Dresden's life finally seems to be calming down-until a shadow from the past returns. Mab, monarch of the Sidhe Winter Court, calls in an old favor from Harry\u2014one small favor that will trap him between a nightmarish foe and an equally deadly ally, and that will strain his skills\u2014and loyalties\u2014to their very limits. ...more If you like the Dresden Files series then you should be mostly satisfied with this book since it's basically more of the same. That's the problem really, these books are really getting formulaic, to the point where I'd really love to see something truly different from the author. For instance, Jim Butcher is hitting the limits of keeping his series in a first person perspective. Some of his supporting characters are just as interesting, if not more interesting than the main character - and it's a If you like the Dresden Files series then you should be mostly satisfied with this book since it's basically more of the same. That's the problem really, these books are really getting formulaic, to the point where I'd really love to see something truly different from the author. For instance, Jim Butcher is hitting the limits of keeping his series in a first person perspective. Some of his supporting characters are just as interesting, if not more interesting than the main character - and it's a damn shame we don't get to see scenes from their point of view. The main character (Harry) always pieces things together quickly and far too easily, making leaps of logic and drawing conclusions that seem to come out of nowhere. Also, it's starting to get really irritating how unfamiliar Jim Butcher is with Chicago. In every single book there are always several parts that make it very obvious that the author is completely clueless about how urban most of Chicago is. Hell, I don't even live in Chicago, but I can tell that Jim Butcher knows jack about the city. On the other hand, it's still pretty solidly entertaining mindless fun, even if it is getting rather repetitive. ...more Second review, read from June 7-8, 2010. When I re-read a book I've already reviewed, I tend to write a new review to reflect how my opinion of the book has changed with a second reading. In this case, my opinion hasn't changed much. If anything, my admiration of Small Favor has increased. I stand by my original review, and I recommend you read that for my full thoughts on this book. Some addenda though. Reading the series in near succession like this gives me a new appreciation of how Small Favor Second review, read from June 7-8, 2010. When I re-read a book I've already reviewed, I tend to write a new review to reflect how my opinion of the book has changed with a second reading. In this case, my opinion hasn't changed much. If anything, my admiration of Small Favor has increased. I stand by my original review, and I recommend you read that for my full thoughts on this book. Some addenda though. Reading the series in near succession like this gives me a new appreciation of how Small Favor brings back some of the light-hearted \"fun\" Harry Dresden. We haven't seen much of him since Proven Guilty . It seems like Harry has more wisecracks this time around, more insolence\u2014although that may be, as Nicodemus observes, merely a function of the insanity of the situations Harry has to face in this book. Seriously, though. Asking a gruff for a doughnut? Wow. It occurs to me that my original review did not have a spoiler alert attached. This hasn't happened since Summer Knight , but I suppose I won't break with tradition now. The specific plot of Small Favor is of little importance. What matters is its sheer awesomeness. Jim Butcher combines so many elements of the Dresdenverse\u2014the Denarians, the Archive, Marcone, Murphy, Thomas, the Wardens, the Knights of the Cross, Summer and Winter courts\u2014and yet the story is still simple and focused. There's plenty of snappy dialogue, wonderful descriptions of battle scenes and magic-working, and new dimensions on old relationships. On top of that, the Black Council story arc continues. Someone has been manipulating the Denarians, and one of them was involved in the attack on Arctis Tor\u2014the one that left the gates wide open for Harry's little incursion. It looks like the Black Council set up Arctis Tor, and contributed to the developments in this book as well. I loved Harry's encounter with Uriel and the corresponding development with his powers. Butcher excels at improving Harry as a character and as a wizard without turning him into a Marty Stu. Sure, Harry gets a power boost in this book\u2014but as Bob says, \"And [Uriel:] did you a favor . . . . You just know that can't be good!\" Nothing comes without a price, and it seems like the more Harry gets involved in these matters, the worse his situation gets. I love the Dresden Files, and Small Favor is an example of why. First review, finished on June 22, 2008. This may be the best Dresden Files book yet. At this point in the series, there is so much backstory and established \"facts\" that it can feel confusing to navigate it all, yet somehow Jim Butcher makes it feel easy. The pacing of the narrative, the division of characters' actions and duties, all of it comes together to make the book readable and enjoyable. Butcher has an excellent handle on how to set up a scene, create tension, and leave you in suspense at just the right moment. It's a shame that Sci-Fi chose to create an \"alternate\" Dresden Files universe when they adapted these books. Had they stuck with the original storyline, they would have enough material for several seasons, and the show might actually have not sucked. But that's neither here nor there. The book. I had trouble putting Small Favor down. As I said before, the pacing just makes it so exciting that I needed to know what happened next. The conflicts in this story are also heartbreaking (with what happens to the Archive and, later, to Michael) and compelling--how is Harry going to get out of this one. Some people may find Harry's wisecracking attitude camp or annoying, but I love it. Okay, \"Hell's bells\" annoys me a bit. However, I've figured out why I like it so much--it reminds me of John Crichton from Farscape . Anyone who has seen that series knows that Crichton is the only human being in that section of the galaxy. Whenever he is in imminent peril, he makes a cultural allusion (be it pop culture, literature, or just some proverb) that no one--particularly the arrogant, gloating enemy--understands. This forms a bond between him and us, the audience. Butcher does the same thing with Harry, and the first person perspective only amplifies this feeling. The plot was rich and interesting. After ten books, one may worry that an author is running out of ideas, but Butcher still looks like he has plenty left. He has managed to hew enough detail out of this universe that there are plenty of antagonists to square off against Harry and the good guys--but the moral ambiguity (gotta love moral ambiguity) means that these antagonists almost always try to foil each others' plans. The blending of mystery with urban fantasy is tangible and potent. Few can do it so well. This novel is great in that respect, because urban fantasy lovers can read it and get exposed to a little mystery they might otherwise ignore; mystery lovers likewise get some urban fantasy. Yet Butcher remembers the golden rule of genre writing: the genre is a setting, not a story. This book is not about faeries, or wizards, or magic, or solving a crime. It is an action adventure with motifs of temptation, redemption, suffering, and all that makes us human. It's a story, set in a world of faerie, magic, and crime. What's not to like? My Reviews of the Dresden Files: \u2190 White Night | Turn Coat \u2192 ...more As a tenth book in a series, I would be expecting some re-generation of stories, padding and generally the author just finding ways to keep the dollars rolling in. Yes I am looking at you Laurell K Hamilton. However, Butcher is leading us on a story that not only is giving great short sotries during each novel, but giving us a glimpse of the overall story and just how large it can become. In this story, Dresden actually has to go rescue Marcone, but just about everyone we know is involved. Maab As a tenth book in a series, I would be expecting some re-generation of stories, padding and generally the author just finding ways to keep the dollars rolling in. Yes I am looking at you Laurell K Hamilton. However, Butcher is leading us on a story that not only is giving great short sotries during each novel, but giving us a glimpse of the overall story and just how large it can become. In this story, Dresden actually has to go rescue Marcone, but just about everyone we know is involved. Maab drops in and recruits our fearless wizard as a winter emissary, Summers agents are out to kill him in the form of Billy Goat Gruffs, then knights are out and about with Sonia and Michael waving their swords, Nicodemus (spelt that wrong I know) and a fallen angel army, the archive and her main man (also a squeeze of Murph), Murph herself and of course Molly. You really get to see the dark and light side of every character and how there is no real thing as pure good and pure evil. Even Nicodemus offers Harry a way of doing good and Harry is constantly working with temptation and kicking ass on a grand scale. There are many battle in this, as you'd imagine with that cast of characters and there is some dark moments, some very emotional ones and some great humour lines. \u201cOf course,\u201d I said, \u201cyou could deny me the boon I rightfully earned in blood and fire and kill me instead, thus ensuring that Summer would renege on a debt and never be able to make good on it. But I don\u2019t think that would be very good for Summer and its honor. Do you?\u201d \u201cIndeed not, wizard,\u201d the gruff said. \u201cIndeed it would not be.\u201d He bowed his head to me. \u201cLikest thou jelly within thy doughnut?\u201d \u201cNay, but prithee, with sprinkles \u2019pon it instead,\u201d I said solemnly, \u201cand frosting of white.\u201d \u201cIt could take some time to locate such a pastry,\u201d the gruff said seriously. This just cracked me up big time. Great read, but a hard book to review. ...more I'm getting pretty close to caught up! This wasn't my favorite by any means, but it was still pretty darn good. What can I really say about this series, ten books in? It hasn't disappointed me ever, that's for sure. On to the next! 2014 Re-Read Review Update : I stand by my original review. Not my favorite by any means, but still darn tootin' good. Rated 4.5 stars. Oh come on why do these evil beings always want to take Harry down. He is finally trying to get his life in order and then the of course the past returns to be a pain. Mab has to call in her favor but it not an easy one because it traps Harry between a foe and an equally deadly ally. Poor Harry has to use all his skills to the very limit to get through this one. \u09b0\u09cb\u09b2\u09be\u09b0 \u0995\u09cb\u09b8\u099f\u09be\u09b0 \u09b0\u09be\u0987\u09a1\u09bf\u0982!! :D \u0993\u09b9 \u09b9\u09af\u09be\u09b0\u09bf!! \u0997\u09c7\u099f \u0986 \u09b2\u09be\u0987\u09ab, \u09aa\u09bf\u09b2\u09bf\u0987\u0987\u0987\u0987\u0987\u099c!! :p \u09b0\u09cb\u09b2\u09be\u09b0 \u0995\u09cb\u09b8\u09cd\u099f\u09be\u09b0 \u09b0\u09be\u0987\u09a1\u09bf\u0982!! :D \u0993\u09b9 \u09b9\u09cd\u09af\u09be\u09b0\u09bf!! \u0997\u09c7\u099f \u0986 \u09b2\u09be\u0987\u09ab, \u09aa\u09bf\u09b2\u09bf\u0987\u0987\u0987\u0987\u0987\u099c!! :p ...more I was conflicted on how to review this book. The first 50% of the book is constant action, not much dialogue except as it relates to the action. How many grave injuries does Harry get over this series? I understand that fighting is dangerous and Butcher makes it realistic, but the constant aches and pains and injuries, well sometimes it is tiring! I was frustrated with Harry for once again just expecting Thomas to join in on the fight and for bringing the danger to the Carpenters. Michael does m I was conflicted on how to review this book. The first 50% of the book is constant action, not much dialogue except as it relates to the action. How many grave injuries does Harry get over this series? I understand that fighting is dangerous and Butcher makes it realistic, but the constant aches and pains and injuries, well sometimes it is tiring! I was frustrated with Harry for once again just expecting Thomas to join in on the fight and for bringing the danger to the Carpenters. Michael does make a cutting comment to Harry when Harry says to Michael I know understand this is dangerous for your family and Michael responds, \"Do you?\" Harry says he worreis about he Carpenters and he is there risking his life for Molly and Michael, but when he is in trouble -- he runs there. Couldn't he call Michael and ask him to meet him somewhere else? Shouldn't the White Council set up a safehouse somewhere in the city? It seems like there would be some use for it. As to Thomas joining in the fight there is only a joking back and forth about how Harry expects Thomas to join in the fight because they are brothers. But is that enouhg? Why is Thomas sticking around to constantly bail Harry out/help him save the world? Is it the brother connection? Because Harry was there for him when no when else was? It just seems that without Thomas, Harry would be in serious trouble. However, the second half of the book redeemed the entire book. This book involves struggles with both the summer and winter courts of the fae, the denarians/fallen angels, Johnny Marcone, the Archive and Kincaid, Michael and Sanya, and then Luccio and Murphy step in to help. So basically everyone from the previous books (I guess absent the werewolves) are present. I really like Michael and love when he gets involved, there are some very intersting moments between Harry and Michael discussing religion and beliefs. Several people -- the denarians and Michael -- wonder about Lasciel's influence on Harry. And even though I remembered what happened at the end of White Night, I still wondered -- is Lasciel influencing him? Without spoiling anything, it becomes clear that a powerful force has messed with Harry's mind but it is not clear who did this. Being from Chicago, I loved the descriptions of Chicago in the winter, visiting the Shedd Aquarium (and it was very accurately described), Union Station, and boating on Lake Michigan in a blizzard. Molly adds so much to the story, I just love having her around! The continuing plot themese from both short stories (i.e. Gard), from earlier books (e.g. Demeter, issues with the Summer Court, the attack on the Winter Court, the Black Counsel) make this book very rich -- and many of the issues are not yet resolved. Small Favor delves a little more deeply into who the Archive (Ivy) is, where she comes from, and the scenes that include Kincaid are fun. *SPOILER SPOILER****** What a relief that Harry finally gets some romantic relief! But what a surprise (or maybe not) that it was Luccio. Readers are rewarded to know that YES it is Murphy who is supposed to wield the sword, but she declines to pick it up ...... now. I was so sad for Michael, his injuries are life changing and he will not be wielding the sword again. So now Harry is holding two swords until it becomes clear who should be wielding them. Right after I finished this book I read the short in Side Jobs \"The Warrior\". I highly recommend reading it close to finishing Small Favor, the story visits with Michael and his family one year after he has recovered (to the extent he ever will) from his injuries and the story also addresses the problems Harry encounters from guarding the two swords. It is a great short and it definitely helped ease the pain I felt for Michael -- I think in the end he got what he wanted -- retirement and time with his family. Another good Dresden short to read close on the tails of Small Favor is \"Day Off\", it is about Harry and Luccio's blossoming relationship but done in a funny light hearted way. Some of my favorite quotes: \"Punctuality is for people with nothinb etter to do,\" Harry said. \"Or for those who have already taken care of the details,\" murmured a women's voice. My brother threw up his hands. \"What does a woman need to do, Harry? Rip her clothes off, throw herself on top of you, and shimmywhile screaming, 'Do me, baby!'?\" He shook his head. \"Sometimes you're a frigging idiot.\" Sanya talking about Murphy: \"Tiny,\" Sanya rumbled to Michael, clenching a demonstrative fist. \"But firece.\" \"Second,\" Nicodemus said, \"I want five inutes alone with Dresden.\" \"No offense, Nick,\" I said, \"but that's about five minutes longer than I want to spend with you.\" ...more There can be only one rating for the book like that from me: 5 stars I enjoyed this book as much as I did the first time I read it, which was quite some time ago. This is just Dresden Files at it's best and I love it! Lots of action, fun, magic and supernatural creatures. And although some things were perhaps predictable, there were a lot of surprises too. And the story slowly gets bigger and more creatures and people are involved, and more is at stake. I love Harry and he's on the list of my favo There can be only one rating for the book like that from me: 5 stars I enjoyed this book as much as I did the first time I read it, which was quite some time ago. This is just Dresden Files at it's best and I love it! Lots of action, fun, magic and supernatural creatures. And although some things were perhaps predictable, there were a lot of surprises too. And the story slowly gets bigger and more creatures and people are involved, and more is at stake. I love Harry and he's on the list of my favourite characters ever. He's one of the main reasons I enjoy this series so much. This guy has such a good heart, but he's also not too perfect and I like that. He's an awesome wizard, much better than he was in the first couple of books, which is of course only natural. But as good as he may be, he still has a lot to learn and there are many supernatural creatures who are much more powerful than he is. Thankfully, Harry has some friends that help him a lot. Murphy, Molly, Thomas, Micheal, Mouse...they are all awesome. Jim Butcher created a lot of characters which I absolutely love. And the bad guys are also pretty cool and nasty, particularly Nicodemus. By now I got so used to the fact that Dresden Files are told from Harry's point of view all the time, I can't really imagine this series told from different point of view. Reading Harry's thoughts and views on things is a lot of fun. I read some of the short stories which were told from different perspective and it was interesting, but I still enjoy Harry the most. First person point of view doesn't always work, particularly in the series as long as Dresden Files, but in this case it was a great choice in my opinion. Feels like I know Harry so well, he's like and old friend. Whenever I write a review of Dresden books I think I keep repeating myself, saying that this series gets better the more books you read. But it's so true! I recently re-read Storm Front and it was also fun, but it's nowhere near as good as the later books in my opinion, like Small Favor. Butcher improved a lot as a writer and it shows. And the stories are a lot better, not to mention the fact that there are a lot more characters involved. At the beginning, I sometimes felt like the series were centered a little too much on Harry and he did a lot of things alone. He's still the main character of the series of course and he does a lot of things, but by now there are a lot more other characters involved and it doesn't feel like he's that alone. And sometimes help arrives form the most unexpected places:) ...more Lots of battles and soul searching is this 10th episode featuring Harry Dresden, Chicago wizard for hire. Here the mean faerie Queen Mab calls in a favor he can\u2019t refuse: to save the entrepreneur Marcone who has been kidnapped by what turns out to be a motley crew of ancient badass Fallen Angels. Harry teams up with the Knight Michael, his vampire brother Thomas, policewoman Murphy, and others for the coming rumble. Later the bad guys, led by Nicodemus, capture a little girl who is a living repo Lots of battles and soul searching is this 10th episode featuring Harry Dresden, Chicago wizard for hire. Here the mean faerie Queen Mab calls in a favor he can\u2019t refuse: to save the entrepreneur Marcone who has been kidnapped by what turns out to be a motley crew of ancient badass Fallen Angels. Harry teams up with the Knight Michael, his vampire brother Thomas, policewoman Murphy, and others for the coming rumble. Later the bad guys, led by Nicodemus, capture a little girl who is a living repository of all human knowledge, \u201cThe Archive\u201d, which ups the ante with the capacity pull off an apocalypse. Harry\u2019s plans keep getting interrupted by attacks from diabolical magical beasts big and small apparently sent by supposed allies from both the Winter and Summer Courts of faeries. The major battles that ensue successively tear up Chicago\u2019s train station, the aquarium, and an island town. Lots of fun action that combines traditional arms and fiendish combat magic. Some of his friends get gravely injured, which imbues him with the righteous anger to overcome the seemingly impossible. ...more Loved it. The Denarians, the fae, the Knights of the Cross, the Marcone gang, the Archive... pretty much everyone is present except the vamps (and of course Thomas is here, so that counts!)... awesome!", "Title": "Small Favor"},
