{"Comments": "Stick a fork in me, folks\u2026I\u2019m done . My relationship with the Dresden Files has officially hit rock bottom . This is one review I've been dreading to write, both because A LOT of my friends passionately love these books, and because there are so many aspects of the series that are praise-worthy and enjoyable. The world-building is terrific,<---M> the magic system is well constructed</---M>, and there are host of likeable supporting characters, such as Thomas, Kincaid, Bob, Michael, Ebenezer...just to name a fe Stick a fork in me, folks\u2026I\u2019m done . My relationship with the Dresden Files has officially hit rock bottom . This is one review I've been dreading to write, both because A LOT of my friends passionately love these books, and because there are so many aspects of the series that are praise-worthy and enjoyable. The world-building is terrific, the magic system is well constructed, and there are host of likeable supporting characters, such as Thomas, Kincaid, Bob, Michael, Ebenezer...<---F>just to name a few</---F>. All of these are people I like hanging out with. It's just...well, let me finish first with the positives. In each of the previous 5 books, Butcher concocted a quality supernatural mysteries that, for lack of a better word, worked. This one is no exception. It\u2019s clever, fast-paced, and generally makes sense enough to keep the reader engaged. Plus, Butcher has a knack for great opening scenes and this may be the best one yet, with Harry going toe to furry toe with a pack of demon monkeys flinging steaming hell poo , while Dresden fights back with magic and witty one-liners. That kind of shit (<---B>no pun</---B>) is what makes this series fun. Okay... *Big sigh* ...here's the PROBLEM . I\u2026just\u2026HATE\u2026Harry. The guy drives me seven different kinds of crazy. In this one, he finally found my last nerve, at which point he proceeded to twist it, strip it, soak it in lighter fluid, and set it ablaze. This blossoming Harry issue stems from two main sources. First, I don\u2019t find Harry\u2019s pathological protectiveness of women to be ingratiating or chivalrous. Quite the oppostive, I find it irritating, self-aggrandizing and chauvinistic...in the EXTREME. \u201cCall me a Neanderthal if you like, but I get real irrational about bad things happening to women.\u201d If he were to have said something like that once or twice in the earlier novels, and then let it go, I think I would have been okay with it. But it's a message repeated ad nauseam in each book and delivered with a shout IN YOUR FACE. No matter what the rational part of my head thinks, when I see someone hurt a woman my inner gigantopithicus wants to reach for the nearest bone and go Kubrickian on someone\u2019s head. Beyond his attitude towards women, the other burr in my tuckus is Harry\u2019s holier-than-thouness and his condescending moral superiority. Over time, this has bothered me more and more and has finally reached the point of \u201ctoo much.\u201d On at least two occasions in this novel (once with Thomas and once with Ebenezer), Harry gets a major judgmental on when someone reveals themselves to be less than stainless in the virtue department. His over-the-top reactions, especially with Ebenezer, made me irk all over. Now, there\u2019s nothing wrong with white hat heroes fighting the good fight, but I guess I like my good guys with a little more edge and a few more warts. That\u2019s just a personal preference, but I like a little more \u201canti\u201d with my hero. Give me Batman over Superman, Clint Eastwood over Roy Rogers, and Snake Plissken over Robin Hood. In the end, I just started experiencing diminishing returns when comparing the things I liked about the series with my growing disenchantment/irritation with Harry. Thus, as much as I regret all of the clever, interesting world-building and magical marvels I\u2019ll be missing in the subsequent Dresden books, I just think the hurdles to my enjoyment have become too high\u2026.and too mighty. 2.5 stars. ...more Urban Fantasy is the genre I choose when I'm in the mood for a light read, and The Dresden Files is my number 1 choice in that particular genre. I like the characters, plot, and writing. This series keeps getting better along the way, but sometimes it tends to feel like it has a routine. No money. New enemies. Girl problem. New job. Almost died. Didn't die. Saved the day. That's the particular routine of The Dresden Files, and it's slowly starting to get boring. Sure I like reading about Dresden, Urban Fantasy is the genre I choose when I'm in the mood for a light read, and The Dresden Files is my number 1 choice in that particular genre. I like the characters, plot, and writing. This series keeps getting better along the way, but sometimes it tends to feel like it has a routine. No money. New enemies. Girl problem. New job. Almost died. Didn't die. Saved the day. That's the particular routine of The Dresden Files, and it's slowly starting to get boring. Sure I like reading about Dresden, but I also need something huge that would make me want to read on. That was my problem with the fifth book, but this one had a few great moments. We all love a good plot twist, or a revelation that we didn't see coming. <+++>Blood Rites</+++> had that, and I'm really glad. If it didn't have those moments then I would've rated this a 3. When people tell you that the series gets better along the way, sometimes it doesn't hurt to trust them. I bought the next 13 books in the series after reading book 1. Sometimes I feel like I'm obligated to read all of them, but while reading them I feel the sense of enjoyment. The novels are relatively short, so it's not much of a chore to finish it. Add in the fact that you'd be finished by day 2 because you just have to know what happens next. Let's just call these books as page turners. 4/5 stars. While this one is among the good ones of the series, it was still a bit underwhelming. It needs a bit more tricks up Butcher's sleeves. ...more Full review now posted! It\u2019s a thankless job, being Chicago\u2019s only professional wizard. But it\u2019s what <---C>Harry Dresden</---C> signed up for, and he is up to the challenge. Usually. But for someone always so swamped with work, the poor man never has two quarters to rub together. That lack of funds always ends up getting him in trouble, whether because of the jobs he takes to get some cash or because he ends up owing some sketchy people money. This book opens with Dresden rescuing puppies from demonic purple Full review now posted! It\u2019s a thankless job, being Chicago\u2019s only professional wizard. But it\u2019s what Harry Dresden signed up for, and he is up to the challenge. Usually. But for someone always so swamped with work, the poor man never has two quarters to rub together. That lack of funds always ends up getting him in trouble, whether because of the jobs he takes to get some cash or because he ends up owing some sketchy people money. This book opens with Dresden rescuing puppies from demonic purple flying monkeys. No, really. Demonic purple flying monkeys that hurl incendiary poo. And can join forces to create one giant purple King Kong demon. Needless to say, the beginning was hilarious. One of the puppies, the one that manages to sneak his way into Dresden\u2019s life, is the cutest thing ever. I can\u2019t wait to get more of him in future books! Later in the book, Dresden helps an adult film maker dodge a curse targeting the women on set as a favor to Thomas, the sexy White Court vampire that always has his back for some unexplained reason. The curse is completely wonky. Seriously, someone got taken out by a frozen turkey that fell out of an airplane. There are freaky Black Court vampires on the hunt for Dresden, and during all of this other craziness Harry gets some family bombshells dropped on him. Lots of stuff goes down. Here is my problem with the Dresden Files; the writing is just so scattered. Butcher writes an entertaining story, but when he\u2019s trying to bring plot points together things just fall apart for some reason. I can see where Butcher is trying to go with the story, and I can follow what he\u2019s getting at, but the writing itself doesn\u2019t convey the plot twists in any kind of concise manner. Are these five-star quality books? No. Will I continue to read them when I need a break from denser, better written books? Yes. Because Dresden might not be the best written book series on the market, but it sure is fun. ...more I can honestly say, <+++>Blood Rites</+++> is my favorite in the series so far. Now, this was also my first audiobook of the series so that could have something to do with it. It's hard to tell at this point, but either way, I highly enjoyed Bood Rites. At first, I thought Marsters was a bit too serious for Harry, at least the Harry I had in my head, but the more I read, the more I realized Marsters is pretty much as perfect as you can get. Harry's wit and constant one-liners were actually made more hilario I can honestly say, Blood Rites is my favorite in the series so far. Now, this was also my first audiobook of the series so that could have something to do with it. It's hard to tell at this point, but either way, I highly enjoyed Bood Rites. At first, I thought Marsters was a bit too serious for Harry, at least the Harry I had in my head, but the more I read, the more I realized Marsters is pretty much as perfect as you can get. Harry's wit and constant one-liners were actually made more hilarious by this narrator who is serious for the majority of the time. I think the heightened seriousness really works better for these books because it gives you a sense of this highly dangerous world where Harry works on a daily basis. It's hard to separate the story from Harry himself because it's told in first person so you're in Harry's head the entire time (outside of dialogue from other characters). I thought this was a brilliant way to handle it though, where you get Harry's sense of humor through his dialogue mostly, his thoughts as well of course, but a seriousness that anchors the narrative because Harry still lives in a world of scary monsters. I hope any of that made some remote bit of sense. Anyhow, Blood Rites gets back into the vampires (they seem to be a pretty regular fall back for Butcher) and that makes sense because the set up has been an all-out war between vampires and wizards. Someone's taking out people on an adult film set and Harry has to go undercover to discover who's behind it. Of course, it goes deeper than he imagined at first and there's where the money is for this series... Harry getting into stuff only to get beaten down and beaten on ... a lot. I struggled a slight bit with the first books in the series, but they have really hit their stride now. I didn't even notice the typical repetitions this time (Harry disrupts electricity, Harry gets really protective of women, etc. etc.) that are explained in each volume as if no one's ever heard about them before. It probably helps that it's been a year or so since I last read in the series. Blood Rites was excellent. James Marsters is so perfectly Harry Dresden it's almost scary. What a great combination. I've already broken my rule of leaving a year between each Dresden file read and started on Dead Beat. 4.5 out of 5 Stars (highly recommended) ...more Rereading with the Lobster. :) [4.5 Stars] My guilty pleasure reading is the Harry Dresden series, featuring Chicago\u2019s only professional wizard. Butcher has the first-person hardboiled narrator voice down pat, and throws out one-liners and rock \u2018em sock \u2018em action with equal abandon. Harry Dresden\u2019s world gets increasingly complicated in this book with new allies and new enemies, and I\u2019m glad I went back and started at the beginning of the series. This book, like the rest of the series, offers a wild ride and lots of fun. Book Twenty-four [image error] Blood Rites by <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> \"Hell's Bells\" count: 19 [1:] As far as I know, The Dresden Files is an open-ended series that Butcher will continue to write until he decides to end it, which is fine with me. He's set up a universe that has endless possibilities to it, from simple mysteries to humorous romps to soul-searing betrayal and heartache. Can't go wrong with all that, and if Butcher wants to just keep putting out Dresden books every eighteen months or so, I'll happ Book Twenty-four [image error] Blood Rites by Jim Butcher \"Hell's Bells\" count: 19 [1:] As far as I know, The Dresden Files is an open-ended series that Butcher will continue to write until he decides to end it, which is fine with me. He's set up a universe that has endless possibilities to it, from simple mysteries to humorous romps to soul-searing betrayal and heartache. Can't go wrong with all that, and if Butcher wants to just keep putting out Dresden books every eighteen months or so, I'll happily keep buying them. One of the dangers of such a plan, however, is stagnation - you end up rehashing similar plot points, perhaps throwing in a few twists and turns, but never really advancing the plot because, well, you don't know where the plot is going. I can imagine Butcher would get to a point where he thinks, \"Ummm... Okay, Harry Dresden fights vampire werewolves.... from the future !\" At which point, the shark has been well and truly jumped. As I've said before, I would much rather see a series end well than see it go on beyond its useful life and leave me with sad, sad memories. I'm looking at you, X-Files . While I don't know if Butcher knows exactly where the series will finally end (though he probably does), he does manage to avoid stagnation very nicely, mainly by putting Harry in mortal danger. Okay, that's nothing new, but this time it's Mortal Danger with bonus Crippling Injury! And a side order of Serious Disillusion to boot. This book really stirs things up for the world of Harry Dresden and lets the readers know that there is far, far more in store for us than we knew. So bravo to you, Jim. In this volume, Dresden is asked by his kind-of-sort-of friend Thomas to do a favor for him. Despite being a vampire of the White Court and a soul-sucking incubus, Thomas is an okay kind of guy and has helped Harry out of a few tight spots in their time. He can't say he trusts Thomas, but he likes him. And therefore we like him as well. The job sounds simple: a movie producer has been having weird accidents happen to people linked with his movie, and two women have already died mysterious deaths. Harry's job would be to figure out who's putting the bad mojo on the movie studio and stop it. The fact that it's an adult movie studio is not brought up until later. In the process of trying to help out with an astoundingly powerful (and regular) Evil Eye curse, Harry runs afoul of the Black Court vampires in a side plot that really has nothing to do with the main one. This seems unusual, since most of the Dresden books that have featured multiple cases do so in the spirit of Raymond Chandler, where we find out that they were all part of the same case after all. The B plot in this book is an attempt to put down Mavra, a truly terrifying member of the Black Court of vampires. The Black Court is the type of vampire we all think of when the word comes up - the Nosferatu, the Dracula, all black and dry and horrible. They're also the toughest, most resilient and most vicious of the vampire clans. What's more, Mavra is an accomplished sorceress, whose power makes even Harry Dresden think twice about crossing her. Which is why he has a Plan this time. And we all know about Harry and his Plans.... All of this, though is incidental to the things he learns in this book, both about himself and the people he trusts. Those are the things that truly shake up his world and which will shape the books that are to follow. This book is a turning point for Dresden, and not a good one. While the Black Court plot, for example, didn't have much to do with the main plot, it sets up very important elements and concepts that are deftly exploited in later books. And Harry's always-fragile relationship with the White Council endures what could be a crippling blow. All this is setting up the next few books and laying the groundwork for the rest of the series. One of the things I've come to admire about Butcher's writing is that nothing is wasted. I once heard that the process of writing a story is like packing for someone else's hiking trip - you only want to put into the bag what you think that person will absolutely need. After all, if they get to the end of their hiking trip and they haven't used that ten-pound bag of rice you thought might come in handy, they're going to be very pissed off at you. Butcher doesn't do that. You can be sure that the elements he lays out in his stories will be used, sooner or later., and you'll never be left wondering, \"But what was that scene with the baseball player and the chicken farm about?\" If Butcher puts a baseball player and a chicken farm into his book, there's a very good reason for it, and you'll find out eventually. As with the other books in The Dresden Files series, this is great fun to read. Which makes it no surprise that the series had some measure of success outside its original format - a TV series and a comic, at last count. I look forward to following it as it goes on. [1:] One of these was the maxi-expletive \"Hell's holy stars and freaking stones shit bells,\" which I must commit to memory ...more Re-read, February 2017 : So far on this Dresden Files re-read of mine, I've liked all the books better (some significantly so). But this one gave me feeeeelings. I mean, I mostly remembered it for the Harry-goes-undercover-on-the-set-of-a-porno plot, so to say that these feeeeelings were unexpected was a bit of an understatement. So Harry goes undercover on the set of a porno! His White Court vampire acquaintance, Thomas, has asked him for a favor, to take the director on as a client, to protect Re-read, February 2017 : So far on this Dresden Files re-read of mine, I've liked all the books better (some significantly so). But this one gave me feeeeelings. I mean, I mostly remembered it for the Harry-goes-undercover-on-the-set-of-a-porno plot, so to say that these feeeeelings were unexpected was a bit of an understatement. So Harry goes undercover on the set of a porno! His White Court vampire acquaintance, Thomas, has asked him for a favor, to take the director on as a client, to protect the cast and crew from an evil eye curse that is taking people out. And this wouldn't be a Dresden Files book if multiple shits didn't hit the fan at the same time. Luckily it's only a couple this time instead of the usual five or so. The Black Court is also in town, and they're gunning for Harry. So for a change of pace, he decides instead of waiting for trouble to come to him, he's just going to kill it all first. With the help of friends (and hired goons), of course. So the part where the feelings come in is that Harry spends a lot of time musing about family in this one, whether because of accidentally attending Murphy's family reunion, or witnessing the dynamics between the Raith clan. So halfway through when he finds out that (view spoiler) [Thomas is actually his half-brother, and that he's no longer alone (hide spoiler) ] , the whole book ends up crystalizing around their fledgling relationship. Also, Mouse shows up as a puppy, and I forgot how freaking cute he used to be. Not much else to say, other than I really enjoyed revisiting this. Most of my original review still stands, although the things I had problems with (Harry's fight with McCoy, the lingering fight scenes) didn't bother me as much this go-round. As great as the audiobooks are for this series, the one advantage the hard copies have is you can get through the iffy bits muuuch faster. Original Review, February 2012 : I continue to be surprised at how much I enjoy this series for as much as I was bored and frustrated by the first three volumes. All through the first three books, I just didn't get the hype. I thought Harry came off as Butcher's attempt to Mary Sue himself into the fictional world, I thought the secondary characters were underdeveloped and underused, and I was mostly bored by all the \"exciting\" things that Harry constantly had happen to him. And on top of that boredom was a thin layer of disbelief, because seriously, that guy got beaten up so much and acted so stoic and heroic about it all the time that he didn't even read as a real person to me. And then I listened to book four on audio, and I'm still not sure if it's my affection for narrator James Marsters that did it or if Butcher's writing actually got better, but the series has grown on me. I still think Harry comes off as a bit of a sacrificial lamb, among other things, but the secondary characters are nicely developed now and Harry's world finally has some emotional texture to it. Blood Rites is the sixth book in The Dresden Files series, which features Harry Dresden as Chicago's only professional wizard. An acquaintance of Harry's -- a White Court vampire (incubi/succubi, basically) named Thomas -- hires him to protect the cast and crew of a porno flick, which seems to be haunted by a mysterious curse. It's Harry's job not only to protect everyone involved, but to find out who's behind it and why, and stop them. He gets way more than he bargained for, as usual. Meanwhile, he also has to deal with a nasty nest full of Black Court vampires that's taken up residence in Chicago, and some personal problems that he really didn't see coming involving revelations about his past. For a majority of the book he also happens to carry a small gray puppy around in one of the many pockets of his trenchcoat, and it pops up in the narrative every once in a while to inject some much needed cute. There's a lot less sex in this book than you would expect from a story involving porn stars, porn filmmakers and incubi and succubi running around all over the place, but I enjoyed the wackiness of the setting, and Butcher treated the porn stars like actual characters rather than giving in to the tempting impulse to portray them as nothing more than their jobs (although I do think he was a bit naive about the whole porn thing, if I'm being honest about it). I really liked what this book did with Harry's relationships with several key characters, namely Thomas (view spoiler) [(who turns out to be his half-brother) (hide spoiler) ] , Murphy (who is actually given things to do nowadays and characterization beyond her role as backup to Harry's insanity, and Harry's mentor, Ebenezar McCoy (even if I do happen to think that Harry was being a bit of a drama queen about the secrets Ebenezar spills late in the book). I'm still a little frustrated by Butcher's style, but it's most a personal frustration based on my own likes and dislikes. I'm still frustrated by little things, like the way he uses \"glowered\" every five seconds, and the way he has characters become quiet a lot as a way to code anger and badassery. I also think his fight scenes go on WAY too long. The whole Black Court vampire plot was kind of boring, even though Butcher has Murphy disarming a bomb with no pants on. I wanted more White Court shiznat and porn-set antics. Also, way more Thomas. And it continues to become more and more apparent that while Harry isn't necessarily sexist, he certainly thinks of women in annoyingly chivalric, protective terms*, like a modern day caveman. But to his credit, it's in sort of an endearing way. The scene where he feels betrayed by his mentor made me angry. I think we were supposed to side with Harry instead of Ebenezer, but instead I just found myself becoming angry with Harry for being stupid. I did like the ending, and I thought Lord Raith was a genuinely scary bad guy, and that he was dealt with by both Butcher and Harry in a clever way. * I'm convinced that Jim Butcher is permanently stuck in the 90s just by the way he has Murphy dress and the things he makes Harry think are cool. Also, by looking at his bio picture. That dude seriously needs a haircut. I'll probably pick up the next book on audiobook whenever it becomes available at my library, but I'm more excited about this series than I have been since I started reading it a couple of years ago. I'm glad Butcher is finally allowing his characters to interact with one another, and I'm glad he's finally allowing Harry to have some real relationships. It makes for much better and more interesting reading. ...more I've been enjoying this series thus far, but this installment really brought it! The porn star murder mystery had barrel-of-laughs written all over it, doubly so with Harry Dresden on the case. BLOOD RITES put a lot of the characters' roles into perspective; Murphy tries being a vigilante on for size, Ebenezar is not what he seems, and Thomas\u2014I did NOT see that one coming. This book was a turning point for THE DRESDEN FILES, and... PUPPIES! Despite the fact that this book needed an editor to point out places where the character gets up from a chair twice in the same paragraph without ever sitting down again or when he eats 3 breakfasts at three different places while seeing a doctor at the last minute between the last two (er, what time is breakfast at the last place?) without ever even mentioning he was full... Okay I'm going to pause there and add a period because even though that isn't a complete sentence, it's too dang long. Any Despite the fact that this book needed an editor to point out places where the character gets up from a chair twice in the same paragraph without ever sitting down again or when he eats 3 breakfasts at three different places while seeing a doctor at the last minute between the last two (er, what time is breakfast at the last place?) without ever even mentioning he was full... Okay I'm going to pause there and add a period because even though that isn't a complete sentence, it's too dang long. Anyway, despite that, Blood Rites is another great tale from Butcher. It's fast paced adventure, starting with page one and leaving with not a cliffhanger exactly but a desire to read the next book RIGHT NOW. He's great at doing that with his chapters, too. I'd promise myself I'd stop reading at the end of the chapter but almost always it ends with something that made me want to keep reading. The characters are likable, with strong interesting women (no more wilting flower girlfriend), and believable actions and emotions. I love his concept and development of the emotion vampire. Although at times certain plot devices seemed rather convenient, the book had two equally strong narratives through out that co-mingled nicely, twists and turns and loads of surprises and revelations about series characters. At times funny, at times tragic, in all, Blood Rites is a good, solid read for those looking for a fun urban fantasy. Oh, and a puppy! Dresden + puppy = Kelly happy place. ...more Like the previous books of the series it's pretty exciting. Dresden gets tangled in several threatening problems. I was wondering, why does all the problems have to fall on him at the same time? He gets really beat up and I feel bad for him. This book is a little off than the previous three books of the series. I feel that it's too melodramatic. At one point Harry himself admits that it's more melodramatic than a Hollywood film. But when I see some possibilities between the most badass man and w Like the previous books of the series it's pretty exciting. Dresden gets tangled in several threatening problems. I was wondering, why does all the problems have to fall on him at the same time? He gets really beat up and I feel bad for him. This book is a little off than the previous three books of the series. I feel that it's too melodramatic. At one point Harry himself admits that it's more melodramatic than a Hollywood film. But when I see some possibilities between the most badass man and woman of the series I get really excited. And at the end there is a very clear indication of several haunting past coming back and it will get a Dresden fan excited to continue the series. ...more 9/10 This was probably the best outing in the Dresden world for me to date. The series could have gone one of two ways really; tedious and repetitive with stale characters with a too jokey style or an ever increasing amount of world building with entertaining characters with a whimsical style that amused. Luckily, the later seems to be more apt for me and I love that with each novel there is more information provided, like a slow drip feeding, about the world and characters to draw you in further 9/10 This was probably the best outing in the Dresden world for me to date. The series could have gone one of two ways really; tedious and repetitive with stale characters with a too jokey style or an ever increasing amount of world building with entertaining characters with a whimsical style that amused. Luckily, the later seems to be more apt for me and I love that with each novel there is more information provided, like a slow drip feeding, about the world and characters to draw you in further. There is a term for how this book starts, I can\u2019t recall it now, but it starts in the thick of Harry in some action with one of his ever growing list of (sort of) sidekicks. This has been used a couple of times in the series and I have to applaud it as it gets you deep into the book without realising. By the time you come up for breath you realise you\u2019ve read a massive chunk of the book and the story is well on the way. Harry is drawn into an investigation onto an adult film set to try and work out why certain women are being targeted and killed on the set. There are plenty of humorous jokes throughout this part and it is quite the light read. The second half of the book is more complex and draws on the previous novels for back-story and gives Harry a different kind of enemy to battle and adds further layers to the world and characters in it. Both contrasting styles helped shape the overall book and it worked well. As I mentioned, this was my favourite book in the series to date. I look forward to reading the rest and think this series will be one of those that when all is said and done I will re-read from the start. I\u2019ve noticed in a couple of reviews there were people who got annoyed at certain things about the series but these have completely passed me by. Now if you excuse me, the band wagon is driving by and I must jump on it. If you enjoy this try: \u201cGoing Postal\u201d by Terry Pratchett ...more It was a pretty good romp in many ways, but I was highly ticked off my numerous logical flaws, especially around the middle of the book. Harry's staff is very important, but through sheer sloppiness, Butcher manages to have it in two places. He also puts a manual car - one that has been a stick throughout the series & we just read was hard for Harry to drive due to a wounded leg - into 'drive' instead of first. A sentence or two later, he shifts into second. Power is out in the city - a big It was a pretty good romp in many ways, but I was highly ticked off my numerous logical flaws, especially around the middle of the book. Harry's staff is very important, but through sheer sloppiness, Butcher manages to have it in two places. He also puts a manual car - one that has been a stick throughout the series & we just read was hard for Harry to drive due to a wounded leg - into 'drive' instead of first. A sentence or two later, he shifts into second. Power is out in the city - a big deal is made out of this & the plot is hinging on it - but Harry & Billy take the elevator. A few paragraphs later, a big deal is made out of Harry having to walk up steps due to no power. Please!!! These are major logical flaws that just slam an otherwise decent book & they're nothing but sloppy. There's no excuse for them. A bit of free proofreading or a decent editor would easily have caught them. As interesting as the series is in other ways, I just can't stand the sloppiness & have to take a break. ...more 4.5 Stars Blood Rites is the best Harry Dresden book so far. I have pushed the Dresden Files series to the side since I have found a new love in everything Urban Fantasy, mostly due to it's PG nature. Harry is simply too good of a guy bordering on goodie goodie. I have really enjoyed the series up to this point and let it be known that Butcher and Dresden were the only ones keeping me even the slightest bit interested in the Urban Fantasy genre. This book is a book about curses, vampires, and blo 4.5 Stars Blood Rites is the best Harry Dresden book so far. I have pushed the Dresden Files series to the side since I have found a new love in everything Urban Fantasy, mostly due to it's PG nature. Harry is simply too good of a guy bordering on goodie goodie. I have really enjoyed the series up to this point and let it be known that Butcher and Dresden were the only ones keeping me even the slightest bit interested in the Urban Fantasy genre. This book is a book about curses, vampires, and blood lines. Blood Rites is really a story on family revelations. There are several major plot twists, series and game changers, and opened up secrets. These surprises are incredible and they are the best thing about the series to date. Blood Rites is a simple story about Harry trying to protect a movie studio from a series of deadly curses. As with all of the Dresden Files it is the magic of Butcher's story telling that make these must reads. He makes each of them fast paced and action packed with very little down time. They all add back story to our hero wizard and develop the world even more. Butcher writes these books flavored with humor and wit and one liners. This was an easy read that I loved from the first page. The following passage will give you a feel of the writing style and the humor of these books. \"Which made it a complete surprise when somethingslammed into the vampire from directly overhead, too quickly to be seen. There was a sound of impact, a raspy, dry scream, and the vampire went down hard. It lay on the ground like a butterfly pinned to a card, arms and legs thrashing uselessly. Its chest and collarbone had been crushed. By an entire frozen turkey. A twenty-pounder. The plucked bird must have fallen from an airplane overhead, doubtlessly manipulated by the curse. By the time it got to the ground, the turkey had already reached its terminal velocity, and was still hard as a brick. The drumsticks poked up above the vampire\u2019s crushed chest, their ends wrapped in red tinfoil. The vampire gasped and writhed a little more.The timer popped out of the turkey. Everyone stopped to blink at that for a second. I mean, come on. Impaled by a guided frozen turkey missile. Even by the standards of the quasi-immortal creatures of the night, that ain\u2019t something you see twice. \u201cFor my next trick,\u201d I panted into the startled silence, \u201canvils.\u201d\u201d Blood Rites is my favorite to date and a real game changers. I highly recommend this series to fans of the genre. ...more Executive Summary: Mr. Butcher ramps things up with this story, and continues to break away from the formulaic style of the previous novels. Audio book: Nothing really of note for this book, although James Marsters does get to try his hand at a Greek accent, which to me sounded pretty good. At this point in the series, I can't imagine anyone else reading it. Full Review So for me, the turning point for the series starts with the last book Death Masks , but if that one didn't impress you, this one Executive Summary: Mr. Butcher ramps things up with this story, and continues to break away from the formulaic style of the previous novels. Audio book: Nothing really of note for this book, although James Marsters does get to try his hand at a Greek accent, which to me sounded pretty good. At this point in the series, I can't imagine anyone else reading it. Full Review So for me, the turning point for the series starts with the last book Death Masks , but if that one didn't impress you, this one should. Otherwise, why exactly are you still reading the series? Gone are the mysterious and attractive females that bring Harry's sense of chivalry to override his better judgement. That doesn't mean he's still not taking cases, or working as a Wizard for hire, but he's tackling bigger problems, with larger implications than he once was. Thomas has come to Harry to call in a favor for helping him in the past and help a friend of his who appears to be under attack from dark magic. The underlying plot of the last few books takes a bit of a break with novel with the return of other baddies, along with introducing some excellent new ones. We see the return of what are becoming the main stay supporting characters of Thomas and of course Murphy, as well as Ebeneezer. This book has several very large revelations that have a major impact on the course of the story in futures novels. The humor gets better with each book, although Harry's smart mouth in the face of mortal danger can get a bit tiring at times. Also, Mouse! (Any of you who have read past this book, should understand that, any of you haven't will just have to scratch your heads). It's getting harder to write these reviews in my normal spoiler-free fashion, or at least without discussing spoilers from previous books. This may be the last book that I can manage that. This is another fast and fun read, and I can't wait to jump into Dead Beat , which probably sealed this as one of my favorite series. ...more Plenty of wonderful Harry lines, as well as great interaction between Harry and Murphy and Harry and Thomas, plus now there\u2019s a puppy (!). I look forward to seeing what Mouse can do when he grows up. I like how Murphy has grown as a character. She\u2019s so much better now that she knows more about the supernatural world. I wasn\u2019t crazy about certain elements of the setting and plot (the porn industry stuff), yet they make sense in terms of the big picture. I like Thomas more with each book; he\u2019s bec Plenty of wonderful Harry lines, as well as great interaction between Harry and Murphy and Harry and Thomas, plus now there\u2019s a puppy (!). I look forward to seeing what Mouse can do when he grows up. I like how Murphy has grown as a character. She\u2019s so much better now that she knows more about the supernatural world. I wasn\u2019t crazy about certain elements of the setting and plot (the porn industry stuff), yet they make sense in terms of the big picture. I like Thomas more with each book; he\u2019s becoming increasingly complex. I like the suggestion that Thomas may be able to overcome the dark side of his nature; as it is, he can control himself better than other members of the White Court. It\u2019s clear that Butcher is fully aware of what he\u2019s doing, what conventions he\u2019s tweaking; he even uses a line from Empire Strikes Back when Harry is accusing Thomas of lying about the family connection. And there\u2019s a definite Luke-Obi-Wan dynamic going on with Harry and Ebenezer now; although Ebenezer\u2019s situation is significantly different from Obi-Wan\u2019s in that Obi-Wan was never an assassin. ...more 5 Stars! Loved this one! Lots of Lt. Murphy, which is always a plus, there's plenty of action, humor and secrets about Harry's family are revealed. It was emotional for him and for me. This wizard has captured my heart! James Marsters...delicious narration! *4.5 stars* Another AWESOME addition to The Dresden Files series. I'm SO in love with these audiobooks. Must. Keep. Listening. Holy shit, one of the best installments yet. This series keeps getting better. Hope it doesn't stall anytime soon... Have you ever seen the famous Leeroy Jenkins youtube video? There is a group of gamers getting ready to do a quest in World of Warcraft and they are standing outside the gates and talking on their headsets, coming up with a complex gameplan on how to get in there and beat all of these monsters. But, suddenly, in the middle of the discussion, Leeroy decides that he's had enough talk and just takes off, charging into the city gates, screaming his name, \"Leeroy Jenkins!!!!\" . The rest of the group i Have you ever seen the famous Leeroy Jenkins youtube video? There is a group of gamers getting ready to do a quest in World of Warcraft and they are standing outside the gates and talking on their headsets, coming up with a complex gameplan on how to get in there and beat all of these monsters. But, suddenly, in the middle of the discussion, Leeroy decides that he's had enough talk and just takes off, charging into the city gates, screaming his name, \"Leeroy Jenkins!!!!\" . The rest of the group is stunned for a minute, but have no choice but to follow him. They are massacred and all proceed to tell Leeroy how stupid he is for messing up their game. Leeroy was definitely not on the same page as his team. Why the extremely long story, that you probably have heard of anyway? Because there is a scene in this book that cracked me up so much that I was walking around the house chuckling over it for about 30 minutes afterward. And, it kind of reminded me of the Leeroy Jenkins story, but better. There are some vampires from the black court and they are nasty killers who will take Harry out and kill a lot of innocent people. So, Harry decides to get Murphy and that scary mercenary guy, Kincaid, from the last book, and the three of them will go into the vampire nest during the day and kill them all. But, they know there will be human bodyguards, hellhounds, booby traps, along with human hostages. It's going to be tricky. They have a huge arsenal of weapons, and Murphy and Kincaid are total badasses with weapons, along with Harry's magic skills, so they come up with a well-planned out game plan on how they will sweep through the building. Tensions are high, the situation is dangerous, but they are ready, and Kincaid is setting them up with their weapons and giving them last minute instructions when this exchange comes up: \"Okay, Kincaid said. \"Anyone have any questions?\" \"Why do they sell hot dogs in packages of ten but hot dog buns in packages of eight?\" I said. Everyone glared at me. THAT!! That is why I love Harry! He will make jokes at any time - appropriate or not. If you knew my husband, you would see that this is a very important quality to me. I spend all of our time out together in public translating his British accent into English, and then apologizing for his insane jokes once they understand what he is saying. I literally forbid him from flying after 9/11 because beforehand, he always, I mean always told the ticket person that someone had handed us a package and asked us to take it on the plane for them. There is no way he wouldn't have had his ass thrown in Guantanamo and been making wiseass jokes to the guys who were waterboarding him if he had tried to travel at that time. I really appreciate a man who can make me laugh. So, about the book! In this story, Harry is asked to take a job doing bodyguard work on the set of a porn movie. My ick factor meter was high and I almost decided to skip it because, well, ick. But, luckily, there is no porn-stuff. These books are clean for the most part. The job comes through Thomas, who we met in the last book or two, and who is absolutely awesome. Who could resist a vampire who wears jeans, combat boots, and a Buffy, the Vampire Slayer t-shirt? And, there is a Thomas side-story here too. The good news is that Murphy is pretty prominent in this story. She is very involved with Harry's life, and is helping him with his vampire-killing mission. We also get to see a glimpse of her personal life and feelings when she freaks out over having to attend a family reunion and wants Harry to schedule the vampire murders for that day so she can get out of it. I think we can all relate to that. I would sometimes be willing to schedule my own murder to get out of a family function. All in all, another fun and exciting story. ...more I first heard of the Dresden Files when the Sci Fi Channel made a show about it. I watched all the episodes, and no, it wasn't the greatest show, but I was intrigued and hoped that it would come back a little cleaned up (I believe it's been canceled.) It turns out my parents are big fans of the books, so I thought I'd give them a try. I should say that I read a couple of the books already, I think #1 and #3, both of which I thought were decent. Not great, but not bad either. This is not a series I first heard of the Dresden Files when the Sci Fi Channel made a show about it. I watched all the episodes, and no, it wasn't the greatest show, but I was intrigued and hoped that it would come back a little cleaned up (I believe it's been canceled.) It turns out my parents are big fans of the books, so I thought I'd give them a try. I should say that I read a couple of the books already, I think #1 and #3, both of which I thought were decent. Not great, but not bad either. This is not a series that you truly have to read in order, so I had no qualms about reading #6 next. Sadly I found Blood Rites to be quite disappointing. One of the main problems I had was with the main character, Harry Dresden. At this point I'm already familiar with Dresden's back story and his general demeanor, so I was quite surprised to find him doing and saying a lot of things that just didn't make sense. Ultimately I found him unbelievable as a real person -- he had a lot of dialogue that was overly simplistic and clich\u00e9d, and often behaved contrary to someone with his upbringing. But the worst part was all the gratuitous reference to sex and sexy women. Now this particular book is about vampires, and porn star vampires at that. Naturally that means very sexy and beautiful people, often barely dressed. But every single time one of the women vampires came in to the room, the author felt obliged to give a 1-2 paragraph description of her body, what she was wearing, and the fact that she exuded sex. Dresden's cohort, a petit barely 5 foot tall cop (I know, I know) wasn't spared. It got to the point where it was just plain icky and I had to skip over a number of scenes, particularly the one where the cop, due to completely silly circumstances, is forced to take off her pants during a fight and phrases such as 'standing in her panties holding a shotgun' are used over and over and over. Frankly, most of this book read like the author's unusually detailed wet dream. It saddened me because I thought the overall concept of the books, a modern day wizard who solves crimes and fights the super natural in Chicago, has a lot of potential. But if you're a fan of the Dresden Files, I highly recommend skipping this particular entry. ...more This is probably my favourite Dresden novel so far. The plot was tight and well paced. The sub plot/side story enhanced the main story instead of competing with it (like the last book instalment). The story just flowed smoothly and James Marsters has the audio narration down pat making for an overall enjoyable reading/listening experience. This book we learn more about Harry\u2019s past and more about his family, his mother in particular. There are some juicy revelations that continue to build Harry\u2019s This is probably my favourite Dresden novel so far. The plot was tight and well paced. The sub plot/side story enhanced the main story instead of competing with it (like the last book instalment). The story just flowed smoothly and James Marsters has the audio narration down pat making for an overall enjoyable reading/listening experience. This book we learn more about Harry\u2019s past and more about his family, his mother in particular. There are some juicy revelations that continue to build Harry\u2019s Legend. Kincaid returns as gun for hire and plays a somewhat larger role than he did last book making for some badass action sequences. Thomas of the Vampire White Court plays a major role. Harry\u2019s mentor, Ebnezer McCoy is back. And I hadn\u2019t realised how much I missed Murphy since the first two books until now where she gets a lot more air time since then. Anyway, this story, Harry takes on a case for Thomas that sees him go undercover in a porno shoot. Yeah, tough gig. Ironically this story rarely goes beyond a PG rating as far as skin goes. What we do get is Vampires, zombified thralls, ancient curses, lots of action and probably one of the best dungeon crawl/Vampire lair sequences I\u2019ve read for a while. So grab your garlic and holy water...and paint ball shooter- because its guns and magic, Kevlar and panties all the way. 4.5 stars ...more Well, I'm definitely glad that I stuck it out through the first couple of books in this series, as it's just moving from strength to strength now. By this, the sixth book, the cast of characters is well developed and one that we've grown quite attached to. As such it was wonderful to have Murphy play such a prominent role in this one and took get a better look into her life. Harry's life also opened up some more and some very significant events took place. Thomas has always been a favorite, so I Well, I'm definitely glad that I stuck it out through the first couple of books in this series, as it's just moving from strength to strength now. By this, the sixth book, the cast of characters is well developed and one that we've grown quite attached to. As such it was wonderful to have Murphy play such a prominent role in this one and took get a better look into her life. Harry's life also opened up some more and some very significant events took place. Thomas has always been a favorite, so I enjoyed his return and that he played such an integral role in the story. As is often the case, Harry had more than just the one mystery to solve, as his own self-preservation also became a priority in between watching out for the \"adult film\" stars he was being paid to protect. This book had me laughing out loud more than others and James Marsters delivery was, as alwasy, spot on. A wonderful addition to the Dresden Files series full of hilarity, adventure, new possibilities and a number of new discoveries about old characters. Brilliant! ...more My favourite book in the series to date. I love the books where Karrin Murphy has a large part to play in the storyline. Plenty of action and one reveal that I had been curious to discover from previous books. A very worthwhile addition to the series. Plus book six and no series fatigue yet! I fricking love Jim Butcher. I love Harry Dresden, I love Karrin Murphy, I love Thomas Raith. I love Mister and Mouse, Bob and Ebenezer, and every single thing about this series! :) Best one yet! This is the best Dresden novel yet. Jim Butcher's writing is getting better and better. It's tighter, cleverer, and has a higher laugh-out-loud per chapter ratio, much to the consternation of everyone else on my commute. This is my preferred style of humour, and Blood Rites is probably the funniest book I've ever read. In fact, it had one of the best single lines ever, which was doubly as effective in audiobook because it was read slowly and I couldn't peek ahead and ruin the surprise. Ready? Here i This is the best Dresden novel yet. Jim Butcher's writing is getting better and better. It's tighter, cleverer, and has a higher laugh-out-loud per chapter ratio, much to the consternation of everyone else on my commute. This is my preferred style of humour, and Blood Rites is probably the funniest book I've ever read. In fact, it had one of the best single lines ever, which was doubly as effective in audiobook because it was read slowly and I couldn't peek ahead and ruin the surprise. Ready? Here it is: \"It's harder to find than a needle in a cliche.\" In the moment, that blew my mind and I had to pause the audiobook and finish guffawing. The story and characters were top-notch as usual, and I appreciated the long denouement after the climax. Too many books end so suddenly once everything comes to a head. Lots of secrets in Harry's world came out in this book, and I'm glad there are so many more books in this series to explore the world. ...more Quick review: Cover: Fitting Rating: R Thumbs Up: 4 Overall: Typical Harry Characters: Well Written Plot: Wow, so much going on. We learn a lot about Harry\u2019s past in this one Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Thomas SUMMARY (50 words or less) There was so much going on in this one. I\u2019m not sure why I didn\u2019t like it as much. I found myself drifting a lot during the listening and not bothering to rewind. Hmmm. It wasn\u2019t a bad story. In fact we have succubi and incubi in Quick review: Cover: Fitting Rating: R Thumbs Up: 4 Overall: Typical Harry Characters: Well Written Plot: Wow, so much going on. We learn a lot about Harry\u2019s past in this one Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Thomas SUMMARY (50 words or less) There was so much going on in this one. I\u2019m not sure why I didn\u2019t like it as much. I found myself drifting a lot during the listening and not bothering to rewind. Hmmm. It wasn\u2019t a bad story. In fact we have succubi and incubi in this one. For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at: http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2... Audio Review James Marsters is stellar and makes everything worth while to listen to. ...more Book 6 of The Dresden Files finds Harry fighting a curse that's threatening a porn movie studio trying to make films outside of the usual Hollywood crowd. He's brought into the case by his friend Thomas, a member of the White Court, who has had very important roles in previous books. We learn more about the White Court and how exactly these beings survive: by seducing mortals and draining their life force while having sex. The story line surrounding the movie studio is at time hilarious, with so Book 6 of The Dresden Files finds Harry fighting a curse that's threatening a porn movie studio trying to make films outside of the usual Hollywood crowd. He's brought into the case by his friend Thomas, a member of the White Court, who has had very important roles in previous books. We learn more about the White Court and how exactly these beings survive: by seducing mortals and draining their life force while having sex. The story line surrounding the movie studio is at time hilarious, with some laugh-out-loud scenes and it never loses momentum. Harry is also in danger because a very strong Black Court demon, Mavra, is out to get him...but what else is new, right? The book brings back recurring characters such as Murphy, Kincaid, Bob, Ebenazar, Mister ...and a puppy!!!! There's a lot of black magic going around but this book is far less heavy on the usual Urban Fantasy elements and focuses much more on something else: family, secrets and betrayal. There's a huge reveal that I won't spoil here but that, along with a couple of other unexpected twists, lay the ground for books to come. It seems Jim Butcher wasn't just making it up along with no discernible pattern: he knew where he was headed from the very beginning and now that I'm at book 6, lots of things are beginning to make much more sense than they did when I first read the previous installments. Just as book 5 focused on faith and what it means to Harry, this book focuses on what it is that makes up a family, what doesn't and the feelings of complete abandonment Harry has been fighting since day 1. This is not say the book isn't action-packed, on the contrary, there's very little down time and the story propels at neack breaking speed. But the underlying sub plot is all based on what it's meant for Harry to be an orphan and how that fact has shaped it into what he is today...only to have it all turned upside down with a reveal that's a game changer and that will be explored in books to come. I can't find fault in this book, really so five solid stars it is. ...more", "Title": "Blood Rites"},
