{"Comments": "Very very Clever! The first half was pretty solid but after that halfway point it took a turn to AWESOME. \u201cThis thing you carry inside you, I don\u2019t know what it is. I don\u2019t know where you got it. But Harry, the past is the past.<---F> You are alive today</---F>. That is all that matters. You must remember,<---M> because it is who you are</---M>, but as it is who you are, you must never, ever regret. To regret your past is to regret your soul.\u201d This book is incredible. And I have Mike to blame thank. Of course, it doesn't hurt that I keep picturing the main character as Eddie Redmayne. Anyone who knows me will know that this i \u201cThis thing you carry inside you, I don\u2019t know what it is. I don\u2019t know where you got it. But Harry, the past is the past. You are alive today. That is all that matters. You must remember, because it is who you are, but as it is who you are, you must never, ever regret. To regret your past is to regret your soul.\u201d This book is incredible. And I have Mike to blame thank. Of course, it doesn't hurt that I keep picturing the main character as Eddie Redmayne. Anyone who knows me will know that this is not my typical reading material at all. I like speed. Action. A fast-paced plot. I hate conspiracies. I don't do drama. Above all else I fucking hated Groundhog Day . I don't want to have to think (<---B>I already read the news and think plenty of work</---B>), for my reading, I want to be entertained . In that sense, this book should have been the antithesis of anything I would ever enjoy. I was so wrong, so blissfully, gleefully wrong. What a wonderful book. What a marvelous piece of literature. The hype is real. This book is about a man who has to relive his life over and over and over, seemingly without end. That is my version of hell. Like most people, I suffer from the ailment of overthinking. I tend to overanalyze my life, I sometimes wished I had another life. I can't think of anything more horrendous than having to relive one's life over and over again. I suppose the prospect might be fun for some, if one is born with a silver spoon in one's mouth. But what if one were born into hardship? Imagine, say, a child born into the depths of poverty in Africa. There is only so much upward mobility that's possible for such a person. With few exceptions, it is difficult to change one's path in life. Imagine knowing what's going to happen, and unable to prevent it. All the tragedies, all the needless deaths that have occurred since one's birth. It's enough to drive a person mad. To relive one's life is nightmarish indeed. This book explores that concept with exceptional depth and reality. The writing is beautiful. Evocative without being purple-prosey in the slightest. To take a few words from J.K. Rowling, the author of this book did things with words I've never seen before. It's magical. She manages to verbalize the concept of a single word, spinning it into a paragraph without making it seem utterly unnecessarily verbose. Euphoria is, I believe, the term they use to describe the sensation, and upon experience I found it to be an entirely useless definition, as it relies on comparatives that are not apt to the situation. A happiness beyond compare, a contentment beyond understanding, a bliss, a travelling, a freeing of the mind from the flesh\u2013these are all, in their ways, an appropriate description of the process, but they mean nothing, for no recollection can re-create them and no substitute mimic them. This book doesn't deal with the issue of depression as much as it deals with the issue of existentialism, and in many ways, they're the same. \u201cI know now that there is something dead inside me though I cannot remember exactly when it died.\u201d The despair of existence, the fact that one has to relive life after life, finding meaning in each, and then losing it. Making impossible decisions knowing the consequences. Losing loved ones over and over again. My loss of faith was not revelatory, nor intensely distressing. It was a prolonged growth of resignation, one which the events of my life had only reinforced, until I was forced to conclude that any conversations I had with a deity were entirely one way. Now to the negatives. The writing aside, this book moves at the pace of a snail with a broken leg (I know that snails don't have legs, but isn't that the cutest imagery ever?). Here, have a cartoon. Nevertheless, the writing more than makes up for the slow pacing. ...more Harry August is a kalachakra, a man who is reborn at the same point in time over and over with his memories intact. When a little girl warns Harry on his eleventh death bed that the end of the world is coming sooner with each cycle, Harry goes on the offensive. Can he stop the end of the world, even with the help of the Cronus Club? I got this from Netgalley. I love a bit of timey-wimey and this book has it in spades. Remember the movie Groundhog Day where Bill Murray experiences the same day over Harry August is a kalachakra, a man who is reborn at the same point in time over and over with his memories intact. When a little girl warns Harry on his eleventh death bed that the end of the world is coming sooner with each cycle, Harry goes on the offensive. Can he stop the end of the world, even with the help of the Cronus Club? I got this from Netgalley. I love a bit of timey-wimey and this book has it in spades. Remember the movie Groundhog Day where Bill Murray experiences the same day over and over? Now, imagine the day is a lifetime and there are other people experiencing it as well. That's pretty much the plot. I'm going to get my gripe out of the way first. The book moves at a glacial pace, mostly due to the constant digressions. The publisher's blurb makes it sound like the world is in jeopardy immediately. Not so. I was 30% of the way through the book by the time the little girl showed up. That being said, this is a very compelling book. It deals with classic time travel themes like not messing with the past and weighty topics like how our experiences make us who we are. Harry's not the most interesting character I've ever read about but he lives some interesting lives. Once the little girl finally shows up to warn Harry during his eleventh life, everything is kicked up a notch and Harry's lives finally have a greater purpose. Harry being reborn as himself in the same point in history every time reminds me of reading the same Choose Your Own Adventure book over and over without being able to keep your thumb at the previous choice so you can go back. \"Maybe if I run away at age six, everything will turn out okay...\" Kalachakras at the beginning of their life cycles handing off info to kalachakras at the end of theirs was a novel way of passing info back in time, even though the information could taint the timeline. At the end of the day, I'm not really sure how to go about rating this. I loved the concepts and the writing was very good but Harry wasn't a very compelling lead. The endless digressions were a little annoying. I guess I'll give it the traditional safety rating of three stars. ...more Wow, whatever I was expecting, it definitely wasn't this. It's historical, it's science fictional, it's a spy novel, it's a long episode of DW sans the time & space travel, it's a spiteful letter of twisted friendships and vengeance. WHAT DOESN'T HAPPEN IN THIS BOOK?! This is a book that draws inspiration from both Groundhog Day and an episode of X-Files whose name escapes me for now. Harry August is a tough negociator. Whenever Harry relives a section of his life he tries hard to do his best to improve his lot. Yes, the main character relives his childhood and does his best to make amends to change his past experiences. I thought the premise was something slightly stale that needed to be addressed to make more of an impact. But I forget that this book is very This is a book that draws inspiration from both Groundhog Day and an episode of X-Files whose name escapes me for now. Harry August is a tough negociator. Whenever Harry relives a section of his life he tries hard to do his best to improve his lot. Yes, the main character relives his childhood and does his best to make amends to change his past experiences. I thought the premise was something slightly stale that needed to be addressed to make more of an impact. But I forget that this book is very much beloved by the Goodreads reviewing community. Maybe I've this reaction because I recently watched Source Code, a sci fi movie with the same flaws as this book. The reason I'm not delving into the fabric itself of the story is that you can't go into details in this case without getting spoilery. Also, I'm a bit puzzled as to why I didn't like this book as much as others. Before I forget, the book Dark Matter too is a similar, vaguely so, but the impression is imprinted enough to get a tired, clicheed, deja vu feeling. This book is subpar IMHO, and though 3 stars is nothing to sneer at, the story doesn't warrant a greater score. ...more Read the blurb and you are going to think like I did. Hasn't 'Groundhog Day' and Ken Grimwood's Replay finished this genre? It's a great premise, but more of a novelty. But then I thought that going into the recent film 'About Time' which charmed my pants off (nothing to do with a goofy red-headed protagonist with the ability to travel through time, no siree). Surely this novelty situation has been done by now. Well maybe now it has, because after reading this novel I sure as hell know it certainl Read the blurb and you are going to think like I did. Hasn't 'Groundhog Day' and Ken Grimwood's Replay finished this genre? It's a great premise, but more of a novelty. But then I thought that going into the recent film 'About Time' which charmed my pants off (nothing to do with a goofy red-headed protagonist with the ability to travel through time, no siree). Surely this novelty situation has been done by now. Well maybe now it has, because after reading this novel I sure as hell know it certainly wasn't before. While the premise is not fresh, Claire explores the implications of the scenario to the extreme. She pushes this mini-genre to it's absolute limits. She explores this scenario with an intelligence and inventiveness that astounds. Take any good SF story that creates an interesting premise and after you finish it you daydream about the situation and think 'wouldn't it be cool if they did this' or 'maybe if the author went in this direction they could have explored this aspect a little more'. I dread to think that I cannot do that with this book. Claire has managed to delve into any possible imagination and with the unique style of the premise has been able to present all of these possible ideas. Yes you can attribute some of this potential to the genre, but Claire sure brings the ideas and milks the potentials to the nth degree. I also admire the writing in other ways. Firstly there is science in here. And even projected near-future science. And while it is obvious that Claire is not a scientist and the real concepts were not explained too scientifically, the author managed to tread the line of having science in a story that was entirely credible to a scientist. There was no showing off. There were no inconsistencies. There was no injecting random scientific jargon. This is how non-scientific SF should be written. Another aspect that I admire is that the author did not fall into a most obvious trap. And this is probably one that is spoilerific so I won't name it. But suffice it to say that most authors of lesser talent would have fallen into that trap so hard and undermined the whole beauty of this book. Indeed had this book been a television show or a comic book that hole would have been fallen into most definitely. So while it may not have the nostalgia and the charm of the other takes on this concept, it certainly makes up for it in inventiveness and the extreme pushing of all ideas and concepts that eventuate from this situation. ...more 1.5 stars. Never have I ever been so happy to finish a book. Reading this one was an absolute chore, but I just couldn't quit because I hate quitting books. And I wanted to see how it ended, so I guess I did care to an extent. It dragged on and on and on and so much history stuff and rambling. I thought it was this terrible book, a cure for insomnia, until I got on here and saw all the 5 star reviews. Maybe it was just not my cup of tea. I will say it picked up in the last 30% or so and the firs 1.5 stars. Never have I ever been so happy to finish a book. Reading this one was an absolute chore, but I just couldn't quit because I hate quitting books. And I wanted to see how it ended, so I guess I did care to an extent. It dragged on and on and on and so much history stuff and rambling. I thought it was this terrible book, a cure for insomnia, until I got on here and saw all the 5 star reviews. Maybe it was just not my cup of tea. I will say it picked up in the last 30% or so and the first 20% was good, but the middle was a big bore. It's the story of a type of person that lives their lives over and over after their death, no matter how they die, and what happens when someone in the group attempts to change the world, which is a big no-no. A great idea for a story, but really rambled too much for me. Kind of like this review. :) Definitely not recommended for anyone that has any sort of A-D-D. ...more 4.5 stars. Harry August lives his life, over and over and over. His memory gradually returns to him when he's a toddler in each life. The first time his prior memories reawaken, in his second life, he thinks he's insane and ends up committing suicide when he's only about seven, only to find himself starting all over again in a third life. Since clearly the suicide route doesn't solve his problem, he gets down to the business of trying to figure out how to best live his life lives. One of the beau 4.5 stars. Harry August lives his life, over and over and over. His memory gradually returns to him when he's a toddler in each life. The first time his prior memories reawaken, in his second life, he thinks he's insane and ends up committing suicide when he's only about seven, only to find himself starting all over again in a third life. Since clearly the suicide route doesn't solve his problem, he gets down to the business of trying to figure out how to best live his life lives. One of the beauties of Harry's repeated lives is that it lets us explore how many different directions this type of time travel could go, and all the wrinkles that would develop: How much can you gamble on sure things and get away with it? Do you look for the same person to love each time? Do you try to assassinate Hitler or save JFK? Would it work? Should you even try? In his fourth life Harry tries sharing his secret with others and ends up tangling with people who want to use his knowledge of future events for their own purposes. The one good thing that comes out of this process is that he discovers that there are others like him. They call themselves the Kalachakra, which is a Buddhist wheel of time concept: or Ouroborans, after the snake eating its own tail: The Kalachakra have formed secret clubs and try to help each other out, especially during their difficult early childhood years. Club members can (very slowly) pass questions back and forth through time: a young person will give a message to another member when he's old, so that when he is born again he can in turn pass the message to another member who is at the end of her life--and vice versa. And so future connects to past, older to younger. Like any society, they have their rules -- which include not doing anything that will drastically change the future. But someone, somewhere, is breaking the rules, and the message is passed down the line from the future: \"The world is ending, sooner and sooner. And we don't know why.\" The first half of the novel is more of an exploration of the ramifications of this type of life, but it takes an interesting turn in the second half, into kind of a multi-life espionage thriller, as Harry tries to find out the reasons for this looming global catastrophe. But his involvement leads to more trouble than he could have imagined, and there's an extremely tense and exciting cat-and-mouse hunt in the later chapters that kept me up far too late. It\u2019s interesting that the premise here is so similar to Life After Life --it even takes place roughly during the same time period in the early to late 1900's\u2014except that in this book we have the Groundhog Day aspect of no loss of memory with rebirth. This book isn't as \"literary\" as Life After Life and I\u2019m sure that many readers won\u2019t like it nearly as well as that one. But this novel did have a fair amount of unexpected depth that was welcome, and -- despite a number of plot weaknesses -- I just had so much more fun reading this book than the much bleaker (and far more repetitive) Life After Life . The plot weaknesses are somewhat spoilerish, so read at your own risk: (view spoiler) [ 1. You have to be able to accept the premise that too-early technological development invariably leads to disaster. 2. One of the characters is trying to develop a machine that will, in some nebulous way, give all the answers to Life, the Universe, and Everything; this machine is compared to finding or becoming like God. It was a bit of a stretch for me. 3. You can permanently erase an Ouroboran\u2019s memory by a type of electroshock therapy; which is fine, except that the erasing process doesn\u2019t work for characters like Harry who have photographic memories. 4. And finally, a major plot point turns on the idea that if you kill a ouroboran while he or she is in utero, before birth, that person will never be reborn again. (hide spoiler) ] These last two plot elements definitely struck me as more convenient than plausible. 4 1/2 stars. I keep thinking that logically this is closer to a four star book than a fiver, but it just captured my imagination and reading it gave me a lot of joy. So I'm rounding up, just because I want to. Content advisory: Frequent violence (including torture, murder and attempted murder) and a fair number of F-bombs. Lots of amoral and immoral characters. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more As much as it pains me to say, <+++>The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August</+++> and me have to part ways at 51% for now . Look, I like this book enough to give it another chance someday (understand : during long, loooong vacations) but as it is, there's only so much tediousness I can take. And oh gosh, I can't believe how dull this story is, given the amazing concept and interesting premise . That seemed so cool, okay? And sometimes it is, and I cannot turn the pages fast enough. Other times, though, I ju As much as it pains me to say, <+++>The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August</+++> and me have to part ways at 51% for now . Look, I like this book enough to give it another chance someday (understand : during long, loooong vacations) but as it is, there's only so much tediousness I can take. And oh gosh, I can't believe how dull this story is, given the amazing concept and interesting premise . That seemed so cool, okay? And sometimes it is, and I cannot turn the pages fast enough. Other times, though, I just want to wail to express my frustration. Forget the blurb which promises you an exciting, fast-paced journey because that couldn't be further from what The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August is about : indeed it reads more like a character study , and that's okay, I mean, I do like those sometimes, but for that I need to believe in the main character's complexity. The problem is, I don't . I can't . Which leads me to : How can a century-old man be so tame and insipid is beyond me. Also, I have a thing : if a character is tortured and I can't be bothered to care, it means that there's really something off about the characterization . Because Hello , I am not a sociopath. Although I loved the first chapters, which hooked me instantly and made me think that I had found a gem, all the excitation I could feel has been watered down along the very much long way . See you someday, Harry, when you grow a personality (and go to the point, damn it!). For now, it just won't do. For more of my reviews, please visit: ...more WARNING: There are 'spoilers' in this review. This is possibly the dullest book I've ever read. I suppose that deserves credit of some sort. Like \u2018The House of the Seven Gables\u2019, the author excelled at making me feel so claustrophobic and trapped in a realm of endless tedium that I related to the narrator\u2019s disgust with life after suffering through just fifty pages. That\u2019s not the mark of a good story, though. The 'plot', if you will (and if I sound like I'm speaking in a pretentious poncy way, it WARNING: There are 'spoilers' in this review. This is possibly the dullest book I've ever read. I suppose that deserves credit of some sort. Like \u2018The House of the Seven Gables\u2019, the author excelled at making me feel so claustrophobic and trapped in a realm of endless tedium that I related to the narrator\u2019s disgust with life after suffering through just fifty pages. That\u2019s not the mark of a good story, though. The 'plot', if you will (and if I sound like I'm speaking in a pretentious poncy way, it's because I've been infected by the style in which this narrative was composed...ahem): Harry (the narrator) is one of many who live their natural life, only to find that following death, they are reborn in the same life, to start all over again. Most people with this condition (it's never clearly explained why some people have it or how it came about, and the author didn\u2019t seem concerned with thinking about this) can't remember details of their previous lives when they're reborn. Yet they remember that they lived again, and that they're doing everything all over again. They bemoan this problem many times. Harry is one of the rare few who remember 'everything'. He is labelled a 'mnemonic'. Apparently he needs to be killed for this, because he could take knowledge from the end of his life and apply it to the beginning of his next life, thus altering the course of events. Why does this fail so spectacularly as a plot device? Because they also repeat ad infinitum that no matter what you do in each successive life, 'you cannot change anything'. It even says it on the back of the book as part of the synopsis. Yet the whole 'plot' revolves around the fear of things changing. Apparently it's dangerous. In fact, after pointless fatalistic monologues about how no matter what you do, you can never actually change what's meant to happen...there are complaints that so many of these 'ourobourans' (the reborn) don't understand that 'it's not a good idea to kill Hitler' because of the repercussions of changing history. Um...? Another mnemonic is a 'friend' and 'enemy' named Vincent, who has a forgetting device (which isn\u2019t thought through at all). It doesn't work on Harry, and yet Harry is still scared of it. And although Vincent is meant to remember 'everything' (cue dramatic music), he often forgets he's met Harry in previous lives. Vincent says he's inventing a machine called a 'quantum mirror' that will allow you to realise you're actually God. I'm not kidding, that's how it's 'explained'. There's no visual description. There's no science. There's no philosophical insight. There's no...ANYTHING. I must have read that section ten times before I was willing to accept that the author didn't bother to think this idea through. It isn't even an idea; it's an idea of an idea. A lot of other reviewers here said the science and philosophy went over their heads. No, it didn't. The ideas presented in this book are actually very basic; the author rehashed a bundle of clich\u00e9d pop-science without much original insight. The reason these concepts confused other reviewers is that they're so badly 'explained' it's clear the author herself doesn't know what she's talking about. They didn't relate to anything else that was going on, either. And what else WAS going on, exactly? Tirade after endless boring pointless mind-numbing agonising soul-destroying pretentious tirade about things like communism - as if ANY of this is new and interesting and insightful in 2015. Harry has the ability to live again and again, and yet this is what he does with his time? Seriously? He never thought to do something more with his time, and he never got so gut-wrenchingly bored to tears with the repetition and monotony that he lost his mind? It isn't plausible in the slightest; no one would handle such a situation in this manner. There is also zero characterisation in this book. Even the narrator - I can't tell you a thing about him. He's the most soulless character ever thought up. I've read critical theory textbooks with more personality. He has all this time to think and grow and develop as a human being and he does none of that. He just stands in dreary stuffy rooms drinking whiskey and speculating that life is meaningless. At one point, he says he loved a woman named <---C>Jenny</---C> and she put him in an institution because she thought he was mad when he told her he knew the future. She's never mentioned again for 300 pages. Finally, it turns out she's married to Vincent. Harry says he's heartbroken, and\u2026I\u2019ve pretty much worded it the way the book did. That\u2019s as deep as it gets. He says he was so in love with her, and then moves on and that's the end of another potential idea of a storyline. Is that meant to be emotion? I also found it incredible that every character happened to be brilliant at quantum physics. Isn't that convenient? Everyone was an elitist middle-class snob, as well, and utterly pretentious. I wanted to hit every one of them. And there were a lot of them to want to hit, because there was a new character in every single chapter \u2013 none but Vincent was never seen again in future chapters. There was no one to hold onto. And when I say chapters, I mean segments of 1-3 pages. That's how long every chapter was, and they all went nowhere. They just dropped off into nothing. Turn the page - scene over - characters gone - why did I read it? What bothers me most is that this book was promoted as a time travel story. It's NOT A TIME TRAVEL STORY. He repeats his life over and over again. He's not jumping back and forth through time. Yet the author decided to write it as if he did, so you had no idea what was going on. Back and forth, back and forth - the only reason I can think of for her doing this is to disguise the fact that NOTHING HAPPENED. Put it out of order, keep readers guessing if there might be a story, after all! (There wasn't.) The premise was good. She could have shown the key events in life one, had him die, then shown him reborn, had him be surprised, shown the key events in life two, shown him changing as a person because of it, shown him learning the secrets of his parentage, etc. as a slow mystery; each life, he could have learned more about himself and his roots. We could have seen him having a breakdown at some point, going nuts, before he decided to use the time for something worthwhile, and...oh yeah, that's 'Groundhog Day'. Sorry, all you endorsers on the back of the book - this book ISN'T 'totally original', after all. Another point is that I had to keep reminding myself the narrator was meant to be a man. He sounded so like a woman, it really threw me when he randomly said he was in love with Jenny. I thought, wow, I didn't get the impression this was a lesbian, at all, and - ohhhh, right, yes, it's a man. I didn't get that impression, either. And finally - who gives themselves a pen name and then immediately on the inside front cover of the book puts a colour photo of themselves, with the blurb, '<---A>Claire North</---A> is the pen name of...,' followed by their real name, where they live and what they do as a day job? And then lists their personal interests as things like 'urban magic' and 'graffiti-spotting'? Did I mention this book was pretentious and elitist? I also have to note that it speaks volumes that all the fans who take the time to comment on my review are hostile, nasty and think it's appropriate to make personal attacks on me without having met me. THAT is why I'm deleting such comments - not because my OPINIONS are 'wrong' or I'm 'too stupid to know how to read' (honestly, someone has thought it okay to say that). Those are the types of people driven to defend this novel - just another reason I HATE this book. To sum up: I remember a line in \u2018Catcher in the Rye\u2019 when Holden says the sign of a really good book is when you finish it and want to pick up the phone and give the author a call, just to talk. If Claire North called me, I would hang up. ...more There's at least one book each year that strives to be the next big mainstream/genre crossover . . . one book that tries to achieve a sort of mainstream literary respectability, while still managing to resonate with genre fans. More often than not, those crossovers don't work, and just end up disappointing one group, while alienating the other. As such, I'm always a bit reluctant to give those books a read, but read them I do, hoping that, this time, there really is a crossover success in the ma There's at least one book each year that strives to be the next big mainstream/genre crossover . . . one book that tries to achieve a sort of mainstream literary respectability, while still managing to resonate with genre fans. More often than not, those crossovers don't work, and just end up disappointing one group, while alienating the other. As such, I'm always a bit reluctant to give those books a read, but read them I do, hoping that, this time, there really is a crossover success in the making. With that said, I am pleased to declare that The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August is indeed the first crossover success of the year. Whoever Claire North really is, she (or he) demonstrates a flair for literary magic here, coupled with an honest love for the genre. At its roots, this is a hard science fiction novel, one that deals with the complexities and paradoxes of time travel, as well as the intellectual and political drivers of scientific progress. In different hands it could have been dense and dry, boring to some, and bewildering to others. Fortunately, Claire North is able to easily convey such lofty concepts and explore them in a conversational manner. There is a definite 'geek' factor to the conversations between Harry and Vincent, which are often as amusing as they are fascinating, but the discussion never goes over the head of mainstream readers. It's a smart book, but one that tries very hard not to boast about its own intelligence. On the surface, this is a mainstream novel about one man's journey (okay, journeys) through life. It's a story of love, loss, triumph, sorrow. In fact, there's an almost Dickensian feel to the story of Harry's birth, his complicated parentage, and his ever-changing idea of family. For, you see, no matter how long or short his life, Harry is reborn to the same parents, in the exact same situation, every time . . . but with the memories of all his past lives. Everything else about him changes - who he loves, what he does, how he dies - but he always begins the same way. There's a sad inevitability to his life, in that no matter what he does he will always die to begin again, but there's also a wondrous sort of potential in how he chooses to live each new life. Just beneath that literary surface, nurtured by those genre roots, is the heart of the story. As we quickly learn, Harry is not alone in his cycle of rebirth and remembrance. In fact, there's a legendary/mythical Chronus Club that has arisen over the centuries to bring them all together, an informal group that's as much about playing elaborate games as it is about maintaining the temporal status quo. While members are free to dabble with possibilities and experiment with new experiences, there are key events that must be allowed to proceed as they always have before. That means no assassinating Hitler before he comes to power, no preventing JFK's assassination, and no interference in the fate of the Twin Towers. Of course, when you're talking about immortals, reborn with lifetimes of memories, it's no surprise that one or two should be tempted to break the rules . . . which brings us to Vincent. Without spoiling too much, Vincent is a man much like Harry, except he's not content with merely living one life after another. He's begun advancing technological progress across the globe, picking up where he left off with each new life, bringing progress to mankind faster and faster, with an eye towards becoming something more than just physically immortal. Burdened with the knowledge that Vincent's efforts are hastening the end of the world, bringing it closer each and every time, Harry takes it upon himself to interfere. It is their complex relationship that ultimately drives the narrative, keeping the reader engaged, and providing the true emotional and intellectual heart of the story. Here are two men who understand each other better than anybody alive, who share so many of the same hopes and dreams, and who have been friends, allies, adversaries, and mortal enemies, depending upon the life lived. It's the strength of Harry as character that keeps us engaged, and his strength as a narrator that keeps us from getting lost in the sometimes scattered recollections of his lives. Just as importantly for a book involving time travel and resurrection, there's genuine tension to the story, and honest surprises along the way. Even the final confrontation is perfect, tying up all fifteen lives in a manner that not only makes sense, but which is as ingenious as the story demands. All said, The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August is an exceptionally well-written novel, one that flows quickly and easily in spite of the lofty ideals sometimes being explored, and which offers something of substance for all readers, no matter how their shelves may lean. Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins ...more WOW WOW WOW! Absolutely LOVED this! My mind is spinning right now. \u2026fifteen reasons to read The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August 1. The Book (or, the short review). It is a fun, fast paced, endlessly readable novel. 2. The Premise. You live, you die, and that\u2019s the end of the road. Except, that\u2019s not quite it for the Ouroborans, who live, die, and are reborn to relive their lives. Think of the Ouroborans as those whose lives end at their beginning. 3. The Lead Character. Harry August is compelling, relatable, and a guy I loved to root for throughout the entire \u2026fifteen reasons to read The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August 1. The Book (or, the short review). It is a fun, fast paced, endlessly readable novel. 2. The Premise. You live, you die, and that\u2019s the end of the road. Except, that\u2019s not quite it for the Ouroborans, who live, die, and are reborn to relive their lives. Think of the Ouroborans as those whose lives end at their beginning. 3. The Lead Character. Harry August is compelling, relatable, and a guy I loved to root for throughout the entire read. Despite being an 800-year-old being, he\u2019s surprisingly down to earth and still trying to figure out *best stoner voice* what does it all mean, man? 4. The Other Characters. The supporting cast of Harry\u2019s unique family, the other Ouroborans, and even the minor characters are brought to life by North\u2019s deft hand. 5. The Villain Or should I say antagonist? His motivations are not entirely dastardly and, indeed, offer a thoughtful counterpoint to Harry\u2019s philosophy. Instead of this character being a mustache-twirling clich\u00e9, he\u2019s a well thought out foil. 6. The Similarities I found this had touches of Mitchell\u2019s The Bone Clocks and Atkinson\u2019s Life After Life , though only insofar as they both deal with reincarnation. I understand that another buzz novel of 2016, Dark Matter , also deals with alternate timelines and questionable decisions. I do plan on reading Dark Matter , but this book nicely sated my hunger for the alternate timeline genre (which I\u2019m sure I just made up). 7. The Differences There\u2019s something unique about this story, and I think its individuality is due to the titular character. There\u2019s concepts that may sound similar, but Harry August\u2019s journey is different enough that I never felt as if I were retreading old ground. Think of the aforementioned books like a hotdog: the bun may be the same, but the meat and condiments are unique to each hotbook/bookdog. 8. The New Twist on a Timeless (eh? eh? ) Genre. You know how some time travel stories play loose and fast with their rules? Not so in North\u2019s novel. She establishes rules that are strictly upheld throughout the entire read. There\u2019s no deus ex machina , no heretofore-unknown aspect of time travel. She sticks to her guns and delivers a take on the genre that feels fresh. 9. The World Tour. This novel moves from England to the furthest reaches of Russia, spends some time in China before hitching a ride to America. I mean, a guy can\u2019t live endless lives and not travel a bit, amirite? 10. The Short Chapters. There\u2019s something very bingeable about short chapters. I was studying for a massive surgical exam during a lot of my reading, but I was always able to read a chapter or two before drifting off to sleep. When I was finally able to sit down this weekend, I couldn\u2019t help but read just one more chapter . 11. The Heartfelt Story. It\u2019s so easy for science fiction and fantasy novels to put their cool concepts in the front of the story and have the character work suffer. Hey, I like those novels too! But North delivers both compelling character work and character-motivated plot alongside great concepts. 12.The Lack of Laser Beams. By that I mean, this is a pretty grounded sci-fi. The high concept stuff deals more with extrapolation of theories in physics (which I confess to knowing very little about) than Star Wars -esque battles. 13. The Combat. You\u2019ll find no swordfights, no gunplay, and only passing physical violence. The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August plays more with subterfuge, science, romance, and torture than it ever does typical action-fare. 14. The Multiple Genres. I got to thinking after I finished the book: in which mind box would I place it? It certainly has a sci-fi premise, but it also works as a character study. But then I get to thinking about the progress of science versus human cost, the rivalry of two powerful men, the straight-up spy sections and I find it difficult to categorize. Luckily, it all melds together like the disparate ingredients in a good stew. 15. The Writing? North (a pseudonym) is a great writer. I loved her turns of phrases, her believable dialogue, and the way she could bring a scene to life with lively exposition. Though I was never sent to a dictionary, I never felt as if I were reading a novel that was too simple. The pacing was phenomenal, and North has a way of dropping you off the edge of a cliff at a chapter\u2019s end, only to reveal your safety harness at the last moment in the next chapter. It is a pleasure to read a novel that is not only fun, but a piece of well-constructed writing. There you have it\u2026 ...more Hot damn. Good God. This book was fan-tas-tic. I read it through NetGalley before it was published. I finished it in one and a half days and as I type this, my husband is reading it. What began as me-forcing-him to sit down and read it turned into voluntary enslavement within the first few pages. The main character of this book is clearly--Harry August. He is one of a few people on our Earth who live their lives over and over again. They call themselves kalachakras or ouraboras. (I can't check my Hot damn. Good God. This book was fan-tas-tic. I read it through NetGalley before it was published. I finished it in one and a half days and as I type this, my husband is reading it. What began as me-forcing-him to sit down and read it turned into voluntary enslavement within the first few pages. The main character of this book is clearly--Harry August. He is one of a few people on our Earth who live their lives over and over again. They call themselves kalachakras or ouraboras. (I can't check my spelling on that one because, as I said, the husband is currently absorbed.) What I thought might be a book about his lives, and the lives of others like him, quickly becomes an intricate action/drama story. Someone, sometime is changing history for the worse and it's up to Harry to figure out how to discover what's going on and put a stop to it. North does an amazing job of writing Harry as a believable, immensely likable protagonist; he grows up poor, sort of orphaned, in England. As Harry globe trots and literally lives 'different' lives, North's imagery of each person and place only adds to the richness of this crazy story. I haven't read a book quite like this, with this premise and this sort of forward-momentum. I'm so glad someone had this idea and had the talent to execute it well. I leave you with an excerpt from the publisher's web site: \"No matter what he does or the decisions he makes, when death comes, Harry always returns to where he began, a child with all the knowledge of a life he has already lived a dozen times before. Nothing ever changes. Until now. As Harry nears the end of his eleventh life, a little girl appears at his bedside. \u2018I nearly missed you, Doctor August,\u2019 she says. \u2018I need to send a message. It has come down from child to adult, child to adult, passed back through generations from a thousand years forward in time. The message is that the world is ending, and we cannot prevent it. So now it\u2019s up to you.\u2019 \" ...more 4,5 / 5 Harry August se ve obligado a vivir una y otra vez su vida tras la muerte, pero conservando todos los recuerdos de sus anteriores existencias cada vez que vuelve a nacer. Todo cambia al final de la decimoprimera vida, cuando una ni\u00f1a acude a su lecho de muerte alert\u00e1ndolo de que el mundo se acaba cada vez m\u00e1s r\u00e1pido de lo que deber\u00eda hacerlo. As\u00ed, Harry dedicar\u00e1 sus pr\u00f3ximas vidas a intentar investigar y detener el proceso que amenaza con el apocalipsis de la Tierra apresuradamente, adela 4,5 / 5 Harry August se ve obligado a vivir una y otra vez su vida tras la muerte, pero conservando todos los recuerdos de sus anteriores existencias cada vez que vuelve a nacer. Todo cambia al final de la decimoprimera vida, cuando una ni\u00f1a acude a su lecho de muerte alert\u00e1ndolo de que el mundo se acaba cada vez m\u00e1s r\u00e1pido de lo que deber\u00eda hacerlo. As\u00ed, Harry dedicar\u00e1 sus pr\u00f3ximas vidas a intentar investigar y detener el proceso que amenaza con el apocalipsis de la Tierra apresuradamente, adelantando los acontecimientos en la historia tal y como la conocemos. Claire North (tambi\u00e9n conocida como Kate Griffin o Catherin Webb) nos presenta un relato de ciencia ficci\u00f3n compuesto por la superposici\u00f3n de las diversas vidas del protagonista de forma no lineal, dosificando la informaci\u00f3n y dotando la lectura de una constante intriga. Utiliza para ello un narrador en primera persona encarnado por Harry August, relatando en forma de memorias una historia llena de detalles que rompe la secuencia lineal de su vida. El libro consta de cap\u00edtulos cortos que no suelen exceder las 5 o 6 p\u00e1ginas con una escritura cuidada y un ritmo que hace que la obra sea ligera y muy amena. North combina de forma muy eficiente la paradoja temporal que supone su mundo, la historia del s.XX por la que nos lleva las vidas de Harry August y una tem\u00e1tica thriller en el \u00faltimo tercio de la historia . Si algo es crucial y llama la atenci\u00f3n del libro es la paradoja temporal que supone el amasijo de vidas y posibilidades que puede suponer el desarrollo de una vida en la misma \u00e9poca hist\u00f3rica una y otra vez.Puede sonar confuso tanto salto en el tiempo hacia delante, tantos episodios entremezclados de diferentes vidas, pero para nada lo es, North tiene la habilidad de introducir estos detalles de forma escalona y sencilla de seguir permitiendo engarzar los acontecimientos con ritmo constante. Es interesante el planteamiento de North, por muchos cambios que se lleguen a introducir en la historia, ciertos grandes eventos siempre se mantienen de una forma u otra, la historia se mueve por ciclos inmutables. Los personajes es otro de los puntos fuertes del libro. Interesantes, bien descritos, con personalidades dibujadas y bien construidas, ya que la autora se toma su tiempo para desarrollar a sus protagonistas a trav\u00e9s de las historias que narra Harry de sus vidas.Una novela muy s\u00f3lida e interesante, que muestra como los peque\u00f1os cambios pueden afectar a la vida de un hombre, que explora la importancia de las acciones de cada persona en el devenir de los hechos y que compone una serie de historia paralelas de lo m\u00e1s absorbentes. Prep\u00e1rate para recorrer varios episodios conocidos de la historia en busca de un enemigo no identificado que ha puesto en peligro el futuro de la Tierra. Quince vidas dan mucho por contar, pero a m\u00ed no me hubiera importado tener que conocer unas cuantas m\u00e1s. ...more ACTUAL RATING: 4.75 Holy Fuck! \u201cThe most it ever seems we know how to do with time, is to waste it.\u201d Predestination ( Without the Incest ) meets Time traveler\u2019s wife ( without the romance ) add the thrill of Shutter Island I have been dying to read this ever since I had the premise from Peruse Project\u2019s Youtube Channel ( Here ), I wasn\u2019t sure if I would have ever come across the physical book but when it magically appeared on a thrift shop I had to pick it up. \u201cThere is no loss, if you c ACTUAL RATING: 4.75 Holy Fuck! \u201cThe most it ever seems we know how to do with time, is to waste it.\u201d Predestination ( Without the Incest ) meets Time traveler\u2019s wife ( without the romance ) add the thrill of Shutter Island I have been dying to read this ever since I had the premise from Peruse Project\u2019s Youtube Channel ( Here ), I wasn\u2019t sure if I would have ever come across the physical book but when it magically appeared on a thrift shop I had to pick it up. \u201cThere is no loss, if you cannot remember what you have lost.\u201d The story follows Harry August who was born in 1895 and his mother passes away as soon as she gives birth to him. We follow his life as he goes on through the ups and downs that is life until his death... He is reincarnated or time starts all over again for him but weirdly he has all the memories and remembers everything, literally every detail from his previous life. This phenomenal happens quite often and at the beginning he loses his shit and kind of thinks he is crazy but soon he decides to seek out the answers to why he has a rest life button. It takes him through one of the most complex theories, to meeting unique characters and solving a very important mystery of ( What the fuck is going on ) Claire North managed to balance out Literary writing with Science fiction and it was absolutely stunning. The book was so complex and with infinite possibilities that leaves the readers scratching their heads. But when the wheels of the story start moving and you finally get a grip on the story, the pages won\u2019t stop turning. The characters were interesting to say the least, they each sort of represented the author\u2019s personality, some were philosophical and went on this tangent about the concept of time and quantum physics and the true meaning of life and why everything is as it is\u2026 It was so interesting to see how they explored all possibilities from Religion, Science, and History etc . Plus, the main character travels a lot, meeting avast array of colorful side characters from an Afghanistan man to a \u00a0Nigerian woman who happens to be queer to an Indian Mystic to a bad-ass Asians assassins which just felt amazing to see represented in the book. Everything is interconnected and beautifully structured. The whole book is a big plot-twist, with every decision the character makes affecting something big in the coming pages and it was thrilling to witness this come to play. \u201cThey say that the mind cannot remember pain; I say it barely matters, for even if the physical sensation is lost, our recollection of the terror that surrounds it is perfect.\u201d The themes were endless and relevant to current situations from how war came to affect future events to questions about humanity's belief in the ever battle between religion and science. Death was obviously an overall theme and I always find it fascinating when an author plays with in fiction and Claire North did it justice. The question: \"if you could go back in time, what would you tell your younger self? or would you kill Hitler and how will that change everything\u2026\" \u201cTime was simple, is simple. We can divide it into simple parts, measure it, arrange dinner by it, drink whisky to its passage. We can mathematically deploy it, use it to express ideas about the observable universe, and yet if asked to explain it in simple language to a child\u2013in simple language which is not deceit, of course\u2013we are powerless. The most it ever seems we know how to do with time is to waste it.\u201d How she managed to incorporate a lot of elements of Historical fiction, Sci-fi, Action, Thriller, Mystery and so much. This was one of a kind and I highly recommend it and after you read it pass it on because more people need this book in their hands :) And if you have read this book please tell me about it so we can gush or if you can recommend more time travel books or just say hi :) Happy Reading & Thanks for reading :) ...more I'm almost speechless. This is one hell of a nonlinear exploration of a repeated life, as can be deduced from the title, but it's also a lot more. It's also a lot better, too. I loved the premise from the get go. All Groundhog Day but stretched for a whole lifetime, and Harry isn't alone. There are others with effective immortality sharing info through repeated but changeable timelines, allowing for a linear continuation of a setting that can be changed with every single revision. Claire North di I'm almost speechless. This is one hell of a nonlinear exploration of a repeated life, as can be deduced from the title, but it's also a lot more. It's also a lot better, too. I loved the premise from the get go. All Groundhog Day but stretched for a whole lifetime, and Harry isn't alone. There are others with effective immortality sharing info through repeated but changeable timelines, allowing for a linear continuation of a setting that can be changed with every single revision. Claire North did an absolutely fantastic job exploring all the ramifications and rules of the existence, but more importantly, she spun a fantastic tale of exploration and intrigue, revenge, and implacable willpower. Whatever might have begun as a rather humdrum initial character quickly became one of the most fascinating and deep character studies I've had the pleasure to read in quite some time. More importantly, I didn't even have to stew over it, because the writing was as clear as crystal despite the inherent risk of an inherently complex tale falling apart due to being told out of order. Of course, this was an absolutely fantastic novel. It didn't fall apart at all. More importantly, it sucked me right in even as I wanted to be a part of the premise and the world and DO things there. For a long while, there were no distractions that I had to focus on exclusively, and I liked that aspect. Later on, this changed entirely, and it was smart and intense. The later development was very warm, with an extremely sympathetic and likeable villain. I was pretty amazed that it took several lifetimes to finally wrap up satisfactorily, and it truly did satisfy. This was a serious piece of literature. I'm surprised and kinda shocked that it didn't make the Hugo list last year. If I had this lifetime to do over, I'd make sure everyone knew this was a serious contender and make sure people knew it was a shoe-in. As it is, I'm pretty sure this novel will stand the test of time, and if there is any justice in the world, people will still be mimicking or talking about it 20 years from now. Yes. It is that good. Truly excellent depth and exploration of both story and character, and a premise that is superior to almost any time travel tale I've ever read. I got done with the Lives of Tao series not too long ago, and I really wanted to compare the two because they were close in time and subject, but after reflection, I have to say that this novel is superior in style and seriousness. The other was just plain fun. This one made me believe. ...more Great book. Really loved the scope and scale of it. Harry is a great character and protagonist. I like that he is flawed and makes mistakes. Really liked the complexity and dynamic of the relationship he had with the antagonist as well. Also really loved all the flashbacks of past lives and stories that others like Harry had passed down through the ages. Can't say too much else without spoiling anything, but I do look forward to others reading it so we can discuss the ending which I have a few qu Great book. Really loved the scope and scale of it. Harry is a great character and protagonist. I like that he is flawed and makes mistakes. Really liked the complexity and dynamic of the relationship he had with the antagonist as well. Also really loved all the flashbacks of past lives and stories that others like Harry had passed down through the ages. Can't say too much else without spoiling anything, but I do look forward to others reading it so we can discuss the ending which I have a few questions about. All in all though, really enjoyed it. Highly recommended. I also want to know who Claire North really is, so I can read more of her/his books. ...more The theme of a character reliving the same life over and over will no doubt have you thinking of Kate Atkinson\u2019s Life After Life *, but this book is so much better. Perhaps simply because of the first-person narration, I developed much more of a fondness for Harry August and his multiple life stories than I ever did for Ursula Todd. \u201cI am not one Harry August but many, a mind flicking from parallel life to parallel life...when I die, the world carries on without me, altered by my deeds, marked by The theme of a character reliving the same life over and over will no doubt have you thinking of Kate Atkinson\u2019s Life After Life *, but this book is so much better. Perhaps simply because of the first-person narration, I developed much more of a fondness for Harry August and his multiple life stories than I ever did for Ursula Todd. \u201cI am not one Harry August but many, a mind flicking from parallel life to parallel life...when I die, the world carries on without me, altered by my deeds, marked by my presence.\u201d Harry is a kalachakra (\u201ctime-wheel\u201d in Tibetan Buddhism) or ouroboran \u2013 a figure who keeps coming back around in what looks to be an endless cycle of rebirths. In North\u2019s fictional world, 1 in 500,000 are born into the condition, which often earns them persecution \u2013 but also gains them entry into the exclusive, worldwide Cronos Club. Harry, the illegitimate son of a servant girl, is born in the same manner each time \u2013 on New Year\u2019s Day 1919, in the ladies\u2019 restroom at Berwick-upon-Tweed rail station! \u2013 but becomes many people in his different lives: he fights in the Second World War (seven times); he tries the medical profession, God, and especially quantum physics; he is drugged in a mental institution, impersonates a Soviet propagandist in Beijing, and (my personal favorite incident, for sheer randomness) pays a visit to a clotted cream farmer in Devon. Some of the humor (e.g. \u201cNo one ever considers the question of bladder when dealing with matters of subterfuge\u201d), as well as the more far-fetched aspects of the plot, reminded me of Nick Harkaway\u2019s Angelmaker or The Hundred-Year-Old Man Who... , but this is a much darker book overall. The dystopian aspect rather surprised me, in fact. Most members of the Cronos Club use their advanced knowledge to try to prevent murders, or win people a bit of money in the races. However, one particular kalachakra, soon to become Harry\u2019s nemesis, takes it upon himself to introduce modern technology earlier and earlier. Just as an early ouroboran proposed the steam train in 1693, this fellow will contribute to the adoption of the PC in 1959 and the cell phone in 1975. But this \u201cgreat technological surge\u201d will have consequences, as global warming speeds up by several decades: \u201cThe world is ending, as it always must. But the end of the world is getting faster.\u201d In general, I don\u2019t really read books that could be classed as fantasy or dystopian sci fi, but I was glad I made an exception for this literary take on the genre. Great fun. Give it a read. [I kept thinking that this book was far too good to be a debut novel...that\u2019s because it\u2019s not. Claire North is the pseudonym of Catherine Webb, who also writes series sci fi under the name Kate Griffin. Between those three author names she\u2019s written about 15 books \u2013 and she\u2019s only 32! The marketing of this book is rather clever, actually, because if it had been packaged like any of her other novels, I would have dismissed it as fantasy dreck and never given it a try.] * A phrase that appears twice (on pages 211 and 375 of the e-galley); also, a major character\u2019s mother is late on revealed to be named Ursula. ...more Esse livro \u00e9 absolutamente fant\u00e1stico. A narrativa que o Harry nos leva para descrever a sequencia de eventos que culminam no final do livro \u00e9 super inteligente e divertida. A primeira metade do livro \u00e9 usada principalmente para nos situar em como funciona o esquema das vidas do Harry e mostrar quem ele \u00e9. A outra metade \u00e9 para resolver o conflito principal do livro que \u00e9 proposto logo no in\u00edcio: o mundo est\u00e1 acabando e o Harry precisa ajudar a salva-lo. Eu adorei seguir o Harry por todas as suas Esse livro \u00e9 absolutamente fant\u00e1stico. A narrativa que o Harry nos leva para descrever a sequencia de eventos que culminam no final do livro \u00e9 super inteligente e divertida. A primeira metade do livro \u00e9 usada principalmente para nos situar em como funciona o esquema das vidas do Harry e mostrar quem ele \u00e9. A outra metade \u00e9 para resolver o conflito principal do livro que \u00e9 proposto logo no in\u00edcio: o mundo est\u00e1 acabando e o Harry precisa ajudar a salva-lo. Eu adorei seguir o Harry por todas as suas primeiras quinze vidas e o seguiria por muitas mais ainda. Na verdade essa seria a \u00fanica reclama\u00e7\u00e3o que eu teria desse livro. Que eu queria ter visto mais da vida do Harry, pq ele \u00e9 um \u00f3timo personagem. Ele nunca fazia a mesma coisa em cada uma das suas vidas e sempre me surpreendia com as suas atitudes e forma de lidar com o mundo que sempre permanecia o mesmo enquanto ele estava a todo tempo evoluindo. Muito me impressiona quando eu lembro que a autora desse livro tinha 16 anos quando come\u00e7ou a escreve-lo. Existe uma maturidade na sua escrita que voc\u00ea normalmente n\u00e3o esperaria de algu\u00e9m da sua idade. \u00c9 impressionante como ela trata com naturalidade sobre assuntos que ela s\u00f3 ter\u00e1 conhecimento pessoal em algumas d\u00e9cadas. Isso traz um grau elevado de credibilidade para o personagem \u00e0 medida que as suas vidas v\u00e3o passando. Esse livro \u00e9 para quem est\u00e1 procurando algo diferente, inteligente e divertido. ...more I'm not normally one to DNF (did-not-finish) books. I like to finish them if I can or at least put them aside for another time. Harry August is a tricky one because I was really excited to read it. I assumed that I'd love it because of the amazing reviews and the great concept, but that wasn't the case. It was a struggle for me from the very beginning and I just couldn't get into it. I'm reading it with my best friend and she feels the same way, which helped me come to the decision to DNF it. I I'm not normally one to DNF (did-not-finish) books. I like to finish them if I can or at least put them aside for another time. Harry August is a tricky one because I was really excited to read it. I assumed that I'd love it because of the amazing reviews and the great concept, but that wasn't the case. It was a struggle for me from the very beginning and I just couldn't get into it. I'm reading it with my best friend and she feels the same way, which helped me come to the decision to DNF it. I didn't particularly like the writing style, the pacing, the plot or feel much desire to keep reading. I don't think that it's my kind of book or that I'm ever going to find the desire to read it again. So I don't want to mark it as read or give it a rating, because that wouldn't be fair, but I still wanted to acknowledge my thoughts on it. It's interesting to read other people's reviews and I can see why others would enjoy it, but it sadly didn't work for me like I hoped it would. :( ...more No man ever steps in the same river twice Move over Plato, Pythagoras and Parmenides. Make way for Claire North. Plato gave us his theory of forms, Pythagoras brought us transmigration of the soul beginning a new life in a fresh body (although of course he wasn't the first), and Parmenides explained how reality is one, change is impossible and existence timeless and unchanging. Claire North, in contrast, philosophises about re-birth in the same body at the same time in an ever so slightly shifting No man ever steps in the same river twice Move over Plato, Pythagoras and Parmenides. Make way for Claire North. Plato gave us his theory of forms, Pythagoras brought us transmigration of the soul beginning a new life in a fresh body (although of course he wasn't the first), and Parmenides explained how reality is one, change is impossible and existence timeless and unchanging. Claire North, in contrast, philosophises about re-birth in the same body at the same time in an ever so slightly shifting universe. Slight paradigm shifts that have incredibly profound effects. I think she's a Time Lord. Reading 'The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August' is like stepping into a river of gold, but as the philosopher says, \"No man ever steps in the same river twice, for it's not the same river and he's not the same man.\" And this, when all's said and done simplifies what is a truly magnificent story. The Cronus Club is a myriad of wandering souls, trickling messages down from the future by means of child to dying adult, child to adult, from a thousand years forward in time, amplifying it down the generations, so that it's entirely possible for events that took place in 2003 to have implications for those people living in, say, 1919. Or, taking this to the extremes, events that will happen 4000 years in the future could have great significance for those people who lived during the age of ancient Greek philosophy during the 6th & 5th centuries BC. What a concept! Those implications, however, can be catastrophic. \"You can do whatever you like so long as you don't bugger it up for the next lot. So no nuking New York, please, or shooting Roosevelt, even for experimental purposes. We just can't handle the hassle.\" One of the marks of a good author is her ability to build a couple of sub-plots around the main plot and then sometimes - but not always - bring them all together at the end. Well, there are a hundred sub-plots in this story, but don't let that put you off because unbelievably it all flows. A period of about 900 years flows effortlessly into about 70 years. Extremely readable. So is it science fiction? I wouldn't say so. Thriller? Absolutely! You've got a charming, yet evil criminal mastermind and an adventure that lasts several lifetimes. Honestly, buy this book! Oh, and one last thing. If this story is ever made into a film, Vincent Rankis must at all costs be played by Stephen Fry. ...more The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August is a novel by British author Clair North (a pseudonym used by Catherine Webb). Harry August is a kalachakra, one of a collection of extraordinary individuals who die, only to be reborn at exactly the same moment in history, to live parallel lives that loop perpetually through the same course of historical events, although experiencing changes within their own lives. Harry is even more unusual in that he has a perfect memory, accurately recalling the detail The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August is a novel by British author Clair North (a pseudonym used by Catherine Webb). Harry August is a kalachakra, one of a collection of extraordinary individuals who die, only to be reborn at exactly the same moment in history, to live parallel lives that loop perpetually through the same course of historical events, although experiencing changes within their own lives. Harry is even more unusual in that he has a perfect memory, accurately recalling the details of each of his previous lives when he is reborn. The reader meets Harry at the end of his eleventh life, when he is visited by a young girl needing him to take a message back in time, an urgent message about the end of the world. Throughout the book, the narration skips back and forth between the events of Harry\u2019s next few lives and those of past lives that are relevant to the course of action he decides to take. North has written an ambitious novel that achieves everything it sets out to do. Her hero is likeable, all the more so because he is flawed and succumbs to temptation. In Harry\u2019s many lives, he does much good, but he also gambles quite a lot, becomes a criminal mastermind, commits cold-blooded murder, suicides several times and admits his actions have cost the lives of many kalachakra. North\u2019s extensive research into recent historical events is apparent in every chapter. As well as exploring the age-old themes of time travel and the effects of changing the past, she examines the effect on a person\u2019s behaviour of knowing that their death is not final. Navigating the next life with the knowledge gained in previous lives may sound ideal (if I only knew then what I know now!), but Harry proves that it is not quite as successful as one might hope. This is a brilliant novel with a highly original plot and a great climax. Readers will look forward to more from Claire North. ...more I enjoyed this more on this reread. It was my first time listening to the audio, and between this and Touch the narrator has earned my undying devotion. He was brilliant. The first time I read this I liked it and gave it three stars but it didn't seem exceptional, only thought-provoking and entertaining. I did really love it this time. I'm beginning to think that her writing style takes some getting used to to fully appreciate it. I did have a harder time tracking his lives in the audio but I foun I enjoyed this more on this reread. It was my first time listening to the audio, and between this and Touch the narrator has earned my undying devotion. He was brilliant. The first time I read this I liked it and gave it three stars but it didn't seem exceptional, only thought-provoking and entertaining. I did really love it this time. I'm beginning to think that her writing style takes some getting used to to fully appreciate it. I did have a harder time tracking his lives in the audio but I found that it didn't matter as much to me this time around. I actually found myself mostly wondering if repeating a life over and over would cause you to devalue the lives of others. Something like \"Well, I don't have time to save her this time around. I have to be elsewhere.\" Would that happen? Would you lose touch with what it means to be human? And from reading North's other works I think that those are exactly the questions that she's trying to prompt the reader to think of. These are the questions that seem to recur in her other work. Anyway, back to this story. Harry August is a man who is born repeatedly with full recollection of all of his past lives. As he's dying in one of his lives he's approached by another of his kind, a Kalachakra, and told that the end of the world is coming and it keeps speeding up. Harry is trying to find out why it's speeding up and what is causing the end of the world. It's really fascinating because there are so many layers to what is going on at any given point. As the why is revealed and the plot thickens there is murder, betrayal, and an ongoing question of what it means to be... I can't finish that sentence because it really is about what it means to be. To exist in a way that is different from others. This is not my favorite of hers but I know I'll revisit it a few times. It's very good and the narration was superb. ...more I decided not to hold back. I am going to be honest, wasn't sure if I was really going to enjoy this. I had to read this for a Bossy Book challenge. I am glad I did. About 1/4 of the way in I was gone. Gone into Harry's story. Sucked in. I loved how we jumped around. (It was well done I promise). I really can't say more without spoiling the story. I can't say if this was science fiction, historical fiction, time travel...it was all of those at the same time. And yet not. I felt like I was very m I decided not to hold back. I am going to be honest, wasn't sure if I was really going to enjoy this. I had to read this for a Bossy Book challenge. I am glad I did. About 1/4 of the way in I was gone. Gone into Harry's story. Sucked in. I loved how we jumped around. (It was well done I promise). I really can't say more without spoiling the story. I can't say if this was science fiction, historical fiction, time travel...it was all of those at the same time. And yet not. I felt like I was very much in the present. Can you imagine..the chance to re-live your life over and over...yes there is madness, it might make you uncomfortable. But this story...I just am going to say less. I think less is better. I can say that I will re-read this one. Yes sir, it gets a re-read. I think that says enough. Oh, and I have to return my library copy, so I think this is one to purchase. And stop rolling you eyes at my 5 star reviews. Reread May 2016 I loved it more. Found more little tidbits to chew on. I didn't want it to end. I might petition the author to give us more of Harry. ...more This book was good because it deals with time travelling in a really cool and understandable way. Claire North makes sure to explain everything during the novel without making the story boring. She also plays around with the time travelling aspect and I liked it. Harry is a man who is reborn every time he dies. His birth takes place on the same day and at the same place, but other than that his several lives diverge in different directions, and every time he's reborn he remembers everything abou This book was good because it deals with time travelling in a really cool and understandable way. Claire North makes sure to explain everything during the novel without making the story boring. She also plays around with the time travelling aspect and I liked it. Harry is a man who is reborn every time he dies. His birth takes place on the same day and at the same place, but other than that his several lives diverge in different directions, and every time he's reborn he remembers everything about his past lives. I think that this story was very well crafted because it's got so many layers without becoming confusing. All of a sudden, you get a chapter that explains an episode in one of his earlier lives, before you return to the main narrative. This novel has also got an interesting antagonist who slowly becomes the central focus of the story, and in the end everything wraps up quite beautifully. This story was a lot better than other time travelling stories I've read, and I definitely see why so many people love it. ...more \"The world is ending. The message has come down from child to adult, child to adult, passed back down generations from a thousand years forward in time. The world is ending and we cannot prevent it. So now it's up to you.\" Typically this would be the moment when our hero-protagonist would leap into action and save the day. However, in this case, our hero-protagonist, Harry August, is 78 and in the late stages of cancer. Like most people who are 78 and in the late stages of cancer he died and th \"The world is ending. The message has come down from child to adult, child to adult, passed back down generations from a thousand years forward in time. The world is ending and we cannot prevent it. So now it's up to you.\" Typically this would be the moment when our hero-protagonist would leap into action and save the day. However, in this case, our hero-protagonist, Harry August, is 78 and in the late stages of cancer. Like most people who are 78 and in the late stages of cancer he died and the book ended there Or would have if Harry was not a kalachakra. An ever returning soul, Harry is literally reborn after his death(s), returned to his humble beginnings in life with a memory of all his previous ones. He is one of many who possess this trait, though why it occurs and who it occurs to is a bit of a mystery. It is said there are three stages of life for those of us who live our lives in circles. These are rejection, exploration and acceptance. Of course rejection, especially in the second life, is typically characterized by insanity: As the full powers of my adult consciousness returned to my child's body, I fell first into a confusion, then an agony, then a doubt, then a despair, then a screaming, then a shrieking, and finally, aged seven years old, I was committed to St. Margot's Asylum for Unfortunates, where I frankly believed myself to belong. Thankfully there is an organization of kalachakra that look after their own, the Chronus Club, providing support and rescue from the tedium of being five years old with a mind of a three hundred year old. Of course this club is well a well kept secret with very little of its activities being known by \"linears\": \"Well, it depends on which text you're reading what they have. Some say conspiratorial meetings in white robes, others go for orgies at which the next generation of their kin are created. I don't believe in either, because the Klan has really dented the white-robe fashion down South, and orgies are everyone's first bet.\" Eventually Harry comes to terms with his existence and explores the possibilities his condition confers. Traveling the world, learning languages, expanding his mind with philosophy and mathematics and science. Of course he does overlook somethings: At these words, Ugly Bill grabbed me in a bear hug from behind and, not for the first time, I wondered why in over two hundred years I'd never got round to learning some form of martial art. Of course there are rules for kalachakra. \"...you can do whatever you like so long as you don't bugger it up for the next lot. So no nuking New York, please, or shooting Roosevelt, even if for experimental purposes. We just can't handle the hassle.\" Which sadly means no killing off Hitler (a rule that reminded me of the awesome short story Wikihistory ). This book was an excellent blend of the retelling Harry's first fifteen lives (as the title suggests), exploring the culture and characters of the kalachakra, and, in the last, half, trying to save the world. I greatly enjoyed North's time travel dynamic. Messages can be passed up and down through history by either leaving them in a permanent medium (like a stone tablet) for future generations, or daisy chain kalachakra of vastly different ages to go back in time. Hence the young girl who delivered her warning to Harry in the 1990's effectively got the message back to the Chronus club of the early 20th century when Harry gets reborn; very imaginative and unique. North does an excellent job highlighting the main tension that drives the conflict in this book: \"In a little over twenty years man will walk on the moon. Hundreds of thousands will die in Vietnam for no apparently sensible reason, dissidents will be shot, men will be tortured, women will weep and children will die. We know all of this and we do... nothing. I'm not suggesting we change the world. I'm not suggesting we know how. What will the future be if these things do not come to pass? But we must do... something.\" North deftly segues from interesting world building and character development to what I can only classify as an espionage thriller played out over several lifetimes; sufficed to say it was awesome. There was excellent tension, high stakes, and many devious challenges facing Harry. I was highly satisfied with how well North wove the entire fifteen lives of Harry together to inform his beliefs, actions, and outlook. All in all a stellar book. But by far the most enjoyable part of the book, for me, was a excellent dry wit. Some of my favorite passages: You know you are your own harshest critic when you dissect the potential shortcomings of your own suicide : Retrospectively, I realise that three floors are frequently not high enough to guarantee the quick, relatively painless death that such circumstances warrant, and I might easily have snapped every bone in my lower body and yet retained my consciousness intact. Thankfully, I landed on my head, and that was that. The path to hell is paved with good intentions (and some torture!) : \"Goddamn it, yes. Because I'm a fucking defender of democracy! Because I'm a fucking liberal-minded believer in freedom, because I'm a fucking good guy with a good heart and damn it because someone has to!\" A question we have all asked ourselves : Why, in all my years in the east, had I not bothered to learn even a little kung fu? A question few people have asked : No one ever considered the question of the bladder when dealing with matters of subterfuge. A metaphor David from Steelheart would kill for : The roads weren't much to speak of, and the car's suspension had been welded in by a stonemason resentful of his change in career. I'd hate to see Pietrok-113 : If Pietrok-111 was a one-horse town, Pietrok-112 was the glue factory where that horse went to die. Reason number one to avoid being a fugitive in Russia : The feeling was exhilarating at first, until the discomfort of the settling night and the damp cold eating through my boots reminded me that exhilaration held nothing over reliable hygiene and warm sheets. And these are just a few of the great bits of prose. Seriously, this book was a delight to read and I highly recommend it to one and all. ...more I have a lot to say about The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August. Starting with: I really want to like it. I\u2019ve followed North\u2019s work since she wrote Mirror Dreams as Catherine Webb; if I recall rightly, we\u2019re about the same age and she was just sixteen when it was published. I loved her narrator, the quirky twists in the way things work. I haven\u2019t read all her work as Kate Griffin, but I enjoyed that as well, as far as I\u2019ve got. But this one\u2026 The idea is fascinating. It\u2019s one that I\u2019ve actually I have a lot to say about The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August. Starting with: I really want to like it. I\u2019ve followed North\u2019s work since she wrote Mirror Dreams as Catherine Webb; if I recall rightly, we\u2019re about the same age and she was just sixteen when it was published. I loved her narrator, the quirky twists in the way things work. I haven\u2019t read all her work as Kate Griffin, but I enjoyed that as well, as far as I\u2019ve got. But this one\u2026 The idea is fascinating. It\u2019s one that I\u2019ve actually played with before, the idea of someone who goes back to the beginning of their life when they die, retaining the knowledge of what they did before. That aspect of this works fine: the Cronus Club makes sense, the various provisions for helping the kalachakra/ouroborans in their second lives and beyond, even the psychological issues with living multiple lives. And then time paradox comes to mess it up. You can\u2019t claim in the same novel that messing with technological and scientific advances will cause the end of the world because it changes the way things are \u2018supposed\u2019 to be, and then also claim that these people can live totally different lives each time. Like, just their schemes for making money for a start \u2014 money you win by betting isn\u2019t money out of nowhere. If you win, someone loses. If you win something someone else won in your last life, then you\u2019ve changed the future. If you come up with a scientific theory in your first life, you have to provide that in each life or you\u2019ve changed the future \u2014 you can\u2019t just go off and breed cats instead or something. The ethical issues about killing kalachakra, making them forget, etc, etc \u2014 all of that could make for a great story without that central contradiction. You can\u2019t have it both ways: have your ouroborans conscientious about time, or make them not care about anyone but themselves. The operative word is or. The narrator just felt flat, often totally without emotion. In many ways it seemed appropriate for the situations, but it isn\u2019t bags of fun to read. So it totally lacked the irreverent, trope-defying smartass voice of Mirror Dreams; for me that was an extra disappointment because I know she can do her narrators really. The relationship between Harry and the antagonist (I won\u2019t reveal the name since it does take a while to become clear) teeters on the verge of being really intriguing, the push-pull that they have; the longing for understanding and the fundamental disagreements between them\u2026 and yet with Harry\u2019s blunted affect, it doesn\u2019t hit home. My rating is mostly based on the fact that I enjoyed thinking about this, puzzling out whether you could write a novel with these premises and not contradict yourself somewhere and how you\u2019d do that. It\u2019s a nice set-up, but\u2026 alas. ...more A disclaimer, I suppose - I went into this novel a bit jaded about \"time travel\" tales. And I was certainly not in the mood for another book about the apocalypse (or the prevention thereof). So finding that I liked this book - loved it, in fact - came as a bit of a surprise. Harry August is an unforgettable character (there's a slightly spoiler-related pun in there, but I'll let you read the book and come back to mock me). Harry is born, lives a fairly unimpressive life (sorry Harry, you're a bit A disclaimer, I suppose - I went into this novel a bit jaded about \"time travel\" tales. And I was certainly not in the mood for another book about the apocalypse (or the prevention thereof). So finding that I liked this book - loved it, in fact - came as a bit of a surprise. Harry August is an unforgettable character (there's a slightly spoiler-related pun in there, but I'll let you read the book and come back to mock me). Harry is born, lives a fairly unimpressive life (sorry Harry, you're a bit dull) and dies. But then, he's born again. With all the memories of his previous life. Disconcerting, to say the least. And again, and again and... as you can imagine, the title can be taken more-or-less literally. Harry's one of the remarkable people who lives his life over and over again, a form of reincarnation that's both blessing and curse. Ms. North is quick to embrace all the possibilities, both positive and negative. Does immortality get boring? What is life like if you know everything that's going to happen? Does someone turn to excess or to saintliness? Does it get lonely? Do you go mad? Harry is amazing because he is so utterly normal - a completely decent, flawed, usual (slightly nebbish, even) human being that's given the most extraordinary circumstances. It is all to easy to slip into his shoes and walk with him as he unpicks the complexity of his existence. Nor does The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August fail to embrace the bigger picture. Although Harry's utterly-justified existential questions are fascinating, he's caught up in larger events. There are others like him, and they've settled into a routine - passing information forwards and back, creating an invisible network of support and occasionally even playing practical jokes. Through them Harry learns more about the 'rules' of his bizarre life. And through them, Harry sees more of the angst of immortality. Is their existence a blessing or a prison? Harry's also given a perfect foil, someone else who is clever enough to ask these questions, but also brave enough to act on the answers. The First Fifteen Lives expands beautifully: first it is about Harry, then it is about his peers and, finally, it is about history itself - and what Harry (or anyone's) role is in shaping, or preserving, the world. This book has all the intellectual rigour and thoughtfulness of great science fiction, but, more importantly, it is driven by incredible characters. Harry is so easy to empathise with and to understand that he becomes the perfect companion for an impossible trip. His life (lives!) and death (deaths?) quickly become our own. ...more ARC provided by publisher via NetGalley as an exchange for honest review. 5 Quantum Stars! Wow.wow.wow.wow.wow.wow.wow.wow. Normally as soon as I see a book with long science theme or a plot that looks confusing and time consuming I don't even give it a chance, but I made an exception for Harry August and am so glad I did The Plot : Harry August is a special man, he can't die but he's not immortal either. Every time he dies he is born again, at first it is a little confusing to keep track of wha ARC provided by publisher via NetGalley as an exchange for honest review. 5 Quantum Stars! Wow.wow.wow.wow.wow.wow.wow.wow. Normally as soon as I see a book with long science theme or a plot that looks confusing and time consuming I don't even give it a chance, but I made an exception for Harry August and am so glad I did The Plot : Harry August is a special man, he can't die but he's not immortal either. Every time he dies he is born again, at first it is a little confusing to keep track of what life he's on and of everyone's name and stories, because Harry is not the only one. There's more and they are called Kalachakra, they even have their own secret club: The Cronus Club. They are a rare breed though \u201cKalachakra generally occur at a rate of one in every half million of the population Normally they help each other out and stay hidden, but know something is changing. The world is ending, nothing huge changes in the future or in the past but still the world ends and the Cronus Club members are being hunted. They have to find out who is causing it and how to stop them. Harry August is an amazingly complex man. My favorite thing about him is how sassy he is, I loved being in his head and seeing life through his eyes. \u201cI was out if shape, having never been in much of a shape to get out of\u201d \u201cThe mind struggles to re-create the joy of a first kiss, but somehow manages to recall the terror of pain, the flush of humiliation and the burden of guilt with a startling clarity\u201d \u201cIf Pietrok-111 was a one-horse town, Pietrok-112 was the glue factory where that horse went to die\u201d \u201cKilling myself at this precipitous time would also gain me nothing but the irritation of going through puberty again\u201d Those are just a few of my favorite quotes because I don't want to overwhelm anyone. There was no point in this book that was boring, there were a few parts that were a little repetitive, like all the hundreds of times Harry talked about his father. There was also no shortage of \u201cGasp-did-that-just-happen!\u201d moments. And of course there's the whole thing with the author, apparently Claire North is a pseudonym and I really want to figure out whose behind it! Overall this book was exciting, the whole time I could picture it as a movie. It had the right amount of science, mystery and a splash of romance! ...more", "Title": "The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August"},
