{"Comments": "Here is a most edifying (<---B>and highly scientific</---B>) quiz you may use to ascertain whether this novel is one that you will enjoy. * Is your bookcase overflowing with strong, decisive heroines? * Do you chuckle over the animated Gorey titles preceding a PBS \u201cMystery!\u201d presentation? * Are you fond of the Victorian era? * Does witty prose make you positively giddy with excitement? * Have you ever lingered over a bit of lace or wistfully touched a velvet coat? * Are you delighted when someone brews a pot of te Here is a most edifying (and highly scientific) quiz you may use to ascertain whether this novel is one that you will enjoy. * Is your bookcase overflowing with strong, decisive heroines? * Do you chuckle over the animated Gorey titles preceding a PBS \u201cMystery!\u201d presentation? * Are you fond of the Victorian era? * Does witty prose make you positively giddy with excitement? * Have you ever lingered over a bit of lace or wistfully touched a velvet coat? * Are you delighted when someone brews a pot of tea? * Does the notion of shape-shifters tickle your fancy? * Are you fascinated by the seductive appeal of vampires? * Have you a penchant for strong, handsome men? * Do you look discreetly and longingly at other people\u2019s plates? If the answer to most of these questions is \u201cyes\u201d then you musn\u2019t hesitate\u2014it\u2019s quite possible that <+++>Soulless</+++> will thoroughly please your palate and leap right onto your \u201cfavorites\u201d shelf. If the answer is \u201cno,\u201d then clearly there is no romance in your soul this is a book to be most assuredly avoided. You will have to forgive my enthusiasm in this review. I was positively in ecstasies over the witty language as I was reading this deliciously dotty book, and even as I write this it\u2019s hard to keep from smiling. The story follows Miss <---C>Alexia Tarabotti</---C>, a preternatural being who has the ability to remove supernatural powers as long as she is touching the other person. Alexia is a clever bluestocking with revoltingly independent tendencies and an unfortunate weakness for treacle tarts. As a spinster, she\u2019s resigned herself to hovering on the edges of glittering social engagements--that is, until she gets caught up in the mystery surrounding a strange vampire attack that flaunts all the rules of polite society. Not to mention that such attacks are a serious breach of good manners. Meticulously detailed and overflowing with good humor, <+++>Soulless</+++> is a like a cozy mystery run mad, set in an inventive alternate universe populated with a dizzying array of colorful characters. I\u2019m quite sure that <---A>Gail Carriger</---A> has been busily spying my bookshelves to see all of the different kinds of books I enjoy and wrote this just for me, as I jotted notes continuously as I read because I found so much to exclaim over. If you\u2019re curious about the writer\u2019s style, I would strongly recommend downloading the preview chapter to try or having a look at my status updates, since I quoted a fair number of my favorite lines. I haven\u2019t read that many steampunk novels yet, but it\u2019s hard to imagine that there could be another one that blends the Victorian era and imaginative paranormal fiction as seamlessly as this one does. I loved the marvelous descriptions of glassicals, carriages outfitted with tea kettles and viewing lenses, and the various steam-powered machines and engines. (view spoiler) [I am still disturbed by all the octupuses, however. That is never explained! (hide spoiler) ] What I appreciate most about this book, however, is that the author did a splendid job of melding mystery, steampunk, and romance together in such a wonderful way while observing the customs and attitudes of the Victorian era. I have such a pet peeve about novels that are set in this time that largely ignore traditional views towards women or the rules of society; while I don\u2019t expect every historical novel I pick up (especially light-hearted entertainers like this one) to be completely accurate, it is a joy to find a book that is so thoroughly researched and comfortable with the manners and mores of the period. Although Alexia is obviously a supernatural being with unusual powers, she also has the same concerns as other women of her time: the feminine role in society,<---M> the need for security through marriage</---M>, the uncomfortable marginalization of thinking women, etc. I felt enormous sympathy for Alexia when she says simply, \u201cI would so like something useful to do.\u201d The author spends just enough time working these details into the story before she transcends those issues and gives our heroine the means to overcome her problems in a completely enjoyable way. Once the big confrontation occurs towards the end, however, I did feel that the book lost a bit of its momentum since it would have been better if things were wrapped up more quickly, and the paranormal aspects of Alexia's abilities are perhaps a little on the slight side. There was also a bit more romance in the novel than I expected, but you know, I\u2019m as willing to be seduced by a handsome werewolf as the next lady, so I was happy to go along with that part of the story. It\u2019s not a hardship when Miss Tarabotti and Lord Maccon are such well-matched individuals. And, um, some of their scenes together made this reader fan herself more than once. I had such a wonderful time reading this novel. This style of writing and humor and story will not be for everyone, but I found it to be hysterically funny, swooningly romantic, and thoroughly entertaining.<---F> I absolutely adore it</---F>. \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 And I want to pepper it with kisses. \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 \u2665 ...more So, I\u2019ve got something else to blame on Glee . In addition to all the terrible eighties music that I\u2019ve been listening to, and image of that terrible Mozart spaceman outfit gone wrong that they put Kurt in for the Gaga episode, I feel certain that the same people who decide on the structure and performance of that show are the same people who decided that it was okay to release Soulless in the form that I read it. At it\u2019s heart, Glee is simply a weak, changeable framework for presenting touchston So, I\u2019ve got something else to blame on Glee . In addition to all the terrible eighties music that I\u2019ve been listening to, and image of that terrible Mozart spaceman outfit gone wrong that they put Kurt in for the Gaga episode, I feel certain that the same people who decide on the structure and performance of that show are the same people who decided that it was okay to release Soulless in the form that I read it. At it\u2019s heart, Glee is simply a weak, changeable framework for presenting touchstones of cultural nostalgia and niche enthusiasms, with interspersed attempts at taking advantage of whatever cultural phenomena have been raking in money over the past few years. The plot, characters and setting all radically and inconsistently change as necessary to allow the producers to put on a show about songs and stories that people feel are an integral enough part of their past or current identity to get them to watch the show each week. The problem with all this is that if you present a musical revue as an ongoing story, then people (at least people like me), will attach certain expectations to the story they\u2019re reading. This is especially true of any genre storytelling- that is, storytelling that will trigger something in the audience\u2019s brain that tells them how to process the joke that\u2019s just been told, how to view the characters, and therefore how to judge the story\u2019s conclusion or lack thereof. Glee is written by three different people who do not seem to communicate well to each other, and following any sort of story gets difficult: one minute we\u2019re watching a mean-but-you-gotta-laugh-cause-he\u2019s-right commentary on culture and the media, the next minute it\u2019s a Very Special Episode that asks us all to sing kumbaya and feel bad for those less fortunate than ourselves. It\u2019s gotten especially jarring over the back half of the first season (I maintain that there were several episodes in the first half that were genuinely good!). These genres do not sit well next to each other, each exposing the weaknesses and downright awful or mean aspects of the other- ie, Are these characters supposed to be simply cardboard cutouts that offer conscious criticism and zippy one liners? Or are they supposed to be real people for me to engage with and treat as I would a real person in that situation? You\u2019ve gotta pick one and tell me what\u2019s up, \u2018cause otherwise it\u2019s an uncomfortable and unrewarding viewing experience, and that feeling is gonna outweigh even my undying love for Journey. I had a very similar experience with Soulless. There\u2019s a lot of genres elbowing for room in here-Regency comedy of manners, Victorian gothic, steampunk, urban fantasy, PG Wodehouse comedy, a bit of SATC, and a prissy bodice ripper (if that seems contradictory, well, just look at the rest of the list!). The author herself talks about this in the little mini interview in the back of my edition of the book, how \u201csuddenly, I was juggling more subgenres than Ivy has ugly hats!\u201d (Oh, don\u2019t worry, we\u2019ll get there in a minute.) Now, I like a lot of these genres separately- and I am aware that there are lots of other people out there who read some sort of combination of these genres, and I saw the hand of the Glee producers at work. Separately, I like all these things. Together?: It\u2019s a Queen medley on top of a Spice Girls cameo with some Green Day background noise, a Broadway power ballad\u2019s notes soaring over it all and whatever the hell that Sugar Ray song was that I now can\u2019t get out of my head- goddamn this idea for a review!- providing the remix beats. Why, Carriger, why must you try to ruin innocent genres who committed no other crime but being so awesome?? Our heroine, Alexia Tarabotti, is a pretty straight up Cinderella/Jane Eyre type, who just happens to have special magical powers (she\u2019s soulless- but there are no downsides I can see to this except that there may be no heaven for you if it exists, but she seems cool with this). She is an Indomitable Fantasy Heroine Who Can Take Care of Herself, and a Wounded Duckling who thinks nobody likes her, even though she is prettier, smarter, wittier and has better boobs than anyone in the room. Now, that trope is pretty tiresome- even Tina Fey doing it ironically on 30 Rock as a commentary on Hollywood standards has started to grate on me. But fine, it\u2019s a genre stereotype and whatever. The problem comes when Carriger applies different standards to the things that come out of her mouth- for example, her treatment of Ivy Hisselpenny, which pissed me off to no end. Now mind you, this is a woman Alexia calls her \u201cdearest friend,\u201d who she visits regularly and spends a good deal of her time with. It slowly emerges that Alexia finds her shallow, stupid and desperate for a man, as well as having terrible taste with all those \u201cugly hats\u201d. Now aside from all the \u201chow would she know if she\u2019s soulless?\u201d comments people have already made, I thought that, more importantly, Alexia was not a nice person. I\u2019m sorry I can\u2019t state it in a more nuanced way than that, but it really made me angry. Ivy seemed to be yet another foil to make sure we knew just how Special a Special Snowflake Alexia was, and for Alexia to use for emotional comfort... while being completely comfortable with viciously making fun of her a few pages later. The genre mixing problem shows here because I think Alexia\u2019s opinion of Ivy, the possessor of ugly hats, is exactly how PG Wodehouse might characterize a person in one of his short stories, as so-\u201cAnd as for Miss Hisselpenny- she wore an ugly hat- we need say no more!\u201d Fine, but as the book goes on, Alexia\u2019s story gets more and more melodramatic and Tearjerking, with involved Gothic plots and character development past the opening farce, and I\u2019m supposed to feel bad for how badly she\u2019s been treated, ie, see her as a real person. And you know what? I don\u2019t like any person if the nicest thing you appear to be able to say about your best friend is that she\u2019s a shallow bimbo who wears bad hats. I\u2019m left to assume the only reason she hangs out with her is because she\u2019s one of the only characters with less social standing than Alexia, so she can feel secure that she\u2019s better than her. Actually, Alexia doesn\u2019t have a good opinion about any other woman she encounters in the book. If all other women are torn down as unworthy in a book that\u2019s, in the end, about women ending up with men, I'm pretty sure I know what the reason is. And it makes it pretty clear to me who really puts the most importance on getting a man. Speaking of which, another example: we hear over and over that Alexia aspires to Lofty Intellectual Ideals and scorns gossipy, shallow women. But then she indulges in gossip later with Lord Akeldama\u2019s (her Sassy Gay Friend) sassy gay chorus (which includes at least one incredibly offensive gay stereotype-the one named Biffy who magically knows how to do her hair in the most current French fashion!), and we\u2019re supposed to see the gossip as naughty, titillating fun that all sophisticates take part in. So now she\u2019s in Sex and the City and Pamela at once? Again, PICK ONE. Because honestly, presented that way, it seems like just another excuse for the author to give her more male attention. In short, she takes funny and good things about various genres and makes them mean and self-serving. I could go on with the many other similar travesties this book commits, never mind the misunderstanding of Jane Austen, the completely unthinking racism and classism committed while imitating authors from earlier eras, not to even MENTION the insult to the Greek philosophers (which Elizabeth has covered nicely) or science of all kinds. But I think I have made my displeasure clear enough to anyone dedicated enough to reach the end of this review. And now if you\u2019ll excuse me, I need to go perform an exorcism on Sugar Ray. ...more Ms. Carriger, congratulations! This was a great ride. I can honestly say that I laughed myself silly reading this book. This is one of those books that will probably embarrass you if you read it in public. You have been warned! This is the first novel that I've read that managed to cleverly and gently satirize the conventions of historical romance, and it was done in a manner that was utterly irresistible. I have not read any Wodehouse, but I imagine I will like him very much, if he is indeed an Ms. Carriger, congratulations! This was a great ride. I can honestly say that I laughed myself silly reading this book. This is one of those books that will probably embarrass you if you read it in public. You have been warned! This is the first novel that I've read that managed to cleverly and gently satirize the conventions of historical romance, and it was done in a manner that was utterly irresistible. I have not read any Wodehouse, but I imagine I will like him very much, if he is indeed an influence on this author's writing. Not only did I enjoy the humor, I thought the characters were beyond interesting. Alexia is one of those heroines that will stand out in the reader's mind. She's intelligent, gutsy, fierce, yet ladylike and admirable. Although she has moments where she's down on herself (she seemed unable to accept that Lord Maccon was interested in her, but it totally made sense to me), she manages to be remarkably comfortable in her own skin. I believe that this is a big part of her appeal to Lord Maccon. Alexia is an alpha woman that I really like. She doesn't come on too strong, and she knows her limits. Throwing her weight around is not a tactic that she resorts to. But if you try something, she will make sure you know it's not happening. I liked that she was a woman of her times, in that she was strong, intelligent, and passionate; yet, she possessed the morals and understandings of what was appropriate in her society. Alexia's ability felt very novel to me. I especially liked how she used it when she interacted with the supernatural people in her life, especially Lord Maccon. There's a really good part where Alexia has to get up close and person with a naked Lord Maccon to keep him from changing back into a wolf. And they sure do take advantage of that moment. Naked Lord Maccon, up close and personal, who could blame a girl? Ah, let's talk about Lord Maccon. Three words: To Die For! I loved him. Not too surprising, since I happen to adore, big, sexy, Scottish werewolves. But it's the whole package with him. I like that he's rough around the edges. Smooth operators bore me. The unpolished, fierce heroes, they get me everytime. Ooh, he had me reading this book furiously to get to the next scenes with he and Alexia. I loved all his scenes, in human and in werewolf form. Alexia and Lord Maccon had awesome chemistry. This is not really a romance novel, so the reader must keep this in mind. Soulless is more of a fantasy with a very strong romance. If you take that into consideration and enjoy the ride, the romantic moments will be a pleasant surprise on top of the humor and the fantastic elements. Having said that, I loved all the smootchy/getting personal scenes. This book has that element of Victorian romance that I just love. The whole \"we are passionately carried away, but this is really improper and I hope we don't get caught\" theme really works for me. I loved how they couldn't seem to keep their hands off each other. Very appealing! Alexia and Lord Maccon are going on my favorite couples list. No doubt about it. Now to the fantasy/steampunk elements. I thought Ms. Carriger did a great job. Initially, I had to get used to the writing style. Like I said earlier, I haven't read too many satirical-styled stories. I had to realize that I couldn't take things too seriously. Once I got into that mode, I was good. This book is an interesting hybrid in that it's definitely a humorous story, but there are some edgy, dark elements, as well. The automaton was pretty darn creepy. I immediately started thinking about golems when it was first introduced. I liked how she took the golem folklore and gave it a steampunk twist. I could completely understand why Alexia found it so repulsive. It was alive, but so opposite from what a living being might be. I liked the adventure aspects. This book made me think of the old school adventure storytellers like Jules Verne, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and Edgar Rice Burroughs, although this book doesn't stray far from the drawing rooms and polite environs of London and its suburbs. I could easily imagine Ms. Carriger writing a ripping, neo-pulp adventure yarn. If she does, sign me up! I hope she has a Roxton-esque hero if she does. Hint, Hint. I definitely think this would make a great movie (in the right hands). Steampunk is a new, but beloved genre for me. When it comes to technical and mechanical devices, I have no imagination. So I have to give it to Ms. Carriger for writing these aspects very well. I had a very good visual picture of the steam-driven, clockwork technology in my head while I was reading. Yet, she didn't overdo it so that I was more focused on trying to picture these devices and not focused on the story. Vampires and werewolves are the main supernatural beasties in this story. They are very politically and socially-organized, to the degree that they have advisors to the queen herself. I admit, I really had to focus on this aspect, needing to reread a few paragraphs to really gain an understanding of the social structure of the two supernatural groups. But it was time well spent. I liked reading about the social dynamics of the vampire society, divided up into hives, each with a Queen vampire (she's the only one who can make new vamps), and having human servants called drones. Lord Akeldama, Alexia's flamboyant friend who happens to be a very powerful vampire, was a hoot. His fashion sense was outrageous, and he kept me laughing. On the werewolf side, I was enamored with Professor Lyall, the competent, extremely intelligent beta to the Alpha werewolf, Lord Maccon, Earl of Woolsey. I hope to see a lot more of Prof. Lyall. The werewolf pack dynamics were especially interesting to me, werewolf lover that I am. I absolutely love the werewolf salute given to Alexia at the end of this book. I was practically clapping. I think you could see that the vamps and weres were very integrated into society, and a huge part of the governmental workings of the author's concept of Great Britain of the 19th Century. It really gives a different perspective on the British Empire. Man, this was a great read. If you're coming from a romance or a contemporary urban fantasy background, this book will take you out of your comfort zones, but it's so worth it. Hang in there until you get used to the flow of the language (it's very 19th century), and relax and enjoy the witty humor (it's very funny). You will have a great time. Don't forget to bring your tricked-out parasol and glassicals, just in case. ...more Loved it! Why did I wait so long to read this??? - Alexia is my spirit animal. What an AWESOME female lead. \"Spinster\" who just doesn't give a crap. Smart as hell. Capable. Funny. Brash. - Conall Maccon. Best werewolf ever! So sexy and gruff and grumpy. Big huge manly werewolf. Rawr. - Loved all the supporting characters. The butler, Floote, Lyall the Beta werewolf... Lord Akeldama , best flaming vampire evah! - Fantastic world building! There's just enough of a little oomph to tweak what we've Loved it! Why did I wait so long to read this??? - Alexia is my spirit animal. What an AWESOME female lead. \"Spinster\" who just doesn't give a crap. Smart as hell. Capable. Funny. Brash. - Conall Maccon. Best werewolf ever! So sexy and gruff and grumpy. Big huge manly werewolf. Rawr. - Loved all the supporting characters. The butler, Floote, Lyall the Beta werewolf... Lord Akeldama , best flaming vampire evah! - Fantastic world building! There's just enough of a little oomph to tweak what we've all read about vamps and weres. - The alternate reality aspects were great. The author reinvents several historical events with a supernatural spin. - The romance was satisfying. No instalove, no damsel in distress... heroine falls in love, but doesn't git stoopid or lose her personality. - The humor! Seriously! And tons of witty ways to word things. Really good stuff. Gosh, I could go on. I really have nothing negative to say about this. I'm a sucker for historical fiction/alternate reality settings with a paranormal spin and this totally worked! Definitely continuing the series. I haven't liked a PNR this much in a long time. There are no steamy love scenes, but what you do get feels just right. Buddy read with the MacHalo group. I don't know how big a part vampires play in the overall plot, but I'm counting this towards vampire month part 2. (By the way, vampires play a major part in this. I wasn't sure, but yes, they do.) ...more Rbrs #4 Remember in grade school, when the teacher would ask for a volunteer to give the first speech or present the first diorama or whatever? Public Speaking - that which is feared more than death. Comparisons were always inevitable. I learned to shoot that hand up like a game of \"not-it,\" so that everyone would be compared to me but my stuff would gently fade in the mob memory. Also, to get it out of the way so then I could relax while everyone else sweated it and got ever more anxious. Soooo, Rbrs #4 Remember in grade school, when the teacher would ask for a volunteer to give the first speech or present the first diorama or whatever? Public Speaking - that which is feared more than death. Comparisons were always inevitable. I learned to shoot that hand up like a game of \"not-it,\" so that everyone would be compared to me but my stuff would gently fade in the mob memory. Also, to get it out of the way so then I could relax while everyone else sweated it and got ever more anxious. Soooo, I was slow with this book and there have been a bunch of excellent reviews written. Comparisons are inevitable. They're really good and you should read them . Especially THIS ONE (forgive me if I missed anyone). These reviews tear the book apart brilliantly. Most of the discussions about the definition of \"Romance\" have been beyond my ability to participate, pulling in outside sources and critical thinking magnificence, but clear enough that I can nod and say \"yeah!\" all thuggishly with fist in the air. I'll try not to be a complete parrot here, as I try to place this book in my limited understanding of the Romance universe. Well, I can't even parrot very well because much of it whooshes over my head. I would consider this book to be Romance, but not the giggly-silly spooning and forking of PtP or barfbag secks of SO'M. The only real relations occurred at the very end after the couple was married. Well, in the carriage on the way to the nuptual bed. Because they couldn't wait. Anyway. The humping (so many ways to not say the word!) wasn't the point, not titillation (tit-lit?). I think the point is to describe an adventure and relationship that the Romance reader can slip on, or project herself. I read a couple of the other reviews by serial Romance readers \u2013 which was quite the task, whew \u2013 and they went on (and on and on) about how the dude made her, the readers, feel. Sorry for the mixing of singular and plural, but the readers are mostly ladies and the ladies seemed to see themselves as Alexia. The man is 'devastatingly handsome'/dark/strong but the lady is described as 'not being a beauty' - she's tall, older (26, not old, but considered beyond the typical marriagable age), darker skinned, larger nosed, likes her food, bigger breasted, a boom-chicka-bow-wow bod. Most of her physical qualities are generally described so that a large chunk of the couch-potato population could do that thing where they see themselves in the story. The clothes are excruciatingly detailed, sometimes the furniture. It's like sitcom t.v. for the book world, where you don't have to think and it's all laid out for you. Which is all okay! Don't attack me, puppets and trolls. I thought this book was not-terrible and performs admirably in its chosen niche...which I think is mostly Romance of the milder variety despite its attempts to shmoosh together all sorts of categories. Essentially, it's a girl meeting and marrying a guy. Each chapter is a contained scene, with all the action and dialogue occurring in one room per scene. The story wasn't really remarkable. There are vampires, werewolves, descriptions of how they fit into this world. The girl and guy don't like each other at first, but that's just because they're extremely attracted to each other and the dislike is an indicator of their future passion. Heh. The whole thing about the girl being soulless? Not well thought out or executed, more a convenient superpower for our superheroine. The clunky witticisms made me cringe, not because they were really bad, but they were slightly bad and there were so many of them...and I'm guilty of clunky \"wit\" so I can't put the author down for this. I cringe, as I do when I see/hear/feel one of my attempts at \"wit\" land with a thud. There were some instances of clumsy writing that popped out like a stray \"splay,\" since Ms. Carriger took great pains to write so properly and use Big Words: She winced at the flavor, looked with narrowed eyes at her cup, and then reached for the creamer. I glare at crockery, too. She widened her large brown eyes...and lowered her eyelashes beseechingly. Doesn't this sound like her eyelashes moved independently? And my favorite: He...rolled so that she was beneath him.... Alexia's ivory taffeta gown was held together by a row of tiny mother-of-pearl buttons up the length of its back. ...the earl eventually discovered this fact and began undoing them with a rapidity the bespoke consummate skill in the art of undoing ladies' clothing. Well, hell! That sure is consummate skill, undoing back-buttons when her back is pressed to the ground! Okay, that last one is probably just me, a scene where the author decided to move the pace along by not describing every single movement...but dude-lady, you've been describing details on the near molecular level. Couldn't you describe Alexia lifting her back up so the earl could undo the row of tiny mother-of-pearl buttons up the length of the ivory taffeta gown? I was jostled from my...I mean, Alexia's, disrobing when you didn't tell me exactly every single movement. I, uh, liked the flamboyant gay vampire and his harem of cooing men. There was also a scene of real beauty (to me) near the end, with the sunset. One last non-story thingy \u2013 the pose on the cover image is only possible for the rare ~2% of the population who are supermodels; one of the RBRS ladies didn't find it impossible but I suspect she's got some supermodel in her. You need a loooooooong torso & neck. Hee, following the cover credits on the back, the photographed woman titles herself the Gothic Supermodel and you can purchase the costume . ...more I wish I had written this book! Only because it combines two of my latest fetishes: Corsets and Paranormal creatures. After the first chapter this book is pretty good, I really enjoyed it (although it's not reinventing the wheel in any way). Nice romance, appealing characters, melding of the two genres was enough to keep my very entertained and up late! I will read another for sure! If Charlaine Harris and Jane Austen 's ghost got together and had a love child, this book would be it. Soulless plays in Victorian era England, in an alternate world where shifters and vampires have revealed their existence to the common folk (much like a historical True Blood). Our main character is Alexia Tarabotti, a blue-stocking spinster with embarrassingly Italian blood and a preternatural - a human born without her soul. She has the ability to cancel supernatural powers by touch, which help If Charlaine Harris and Jane Austen 's ghost got together and had a love child, this book would be it. Soulless plays in Victorian era England, in an alternate world where shifters and vampires have revealed their existence to the common folk (much like a historical True Blood). Our main character is Alexia Tarabotti, a blue-stocking spinster with embarrassingly Italian blood and a preternatural - a human born without her soul. She has the ability to cancel supernatural powers by touch, which helps her deal with Lord Maccon (werewolf alpha and book BF material) and a horde of vampires and evil scientists pursuing her. The Parasol Protectorate was different from other PNR or UF series I've encountered because: -it's my first historical PNR read. Fun fun fun. -Alexia isn't your typical eye-boggling hot heroine. Her big nose, dark complexion, and over-generous curves are a constant source of vindictive amusement to her family and societal acquaintances. Alexia also isn't your typical roundhouse-kick-to-the-ass heroine; she leaves most of the fighting work to others and uses her wits and spinster-hood to her advantage. -the characters in Soulless are astonishingly blas\u00e9 about murder and death. An entire organization is massacred over the course of the book, yet the perpetrators are met with nothing harsher than mild disapproval and an awkward air from society. Everyone acts like this is an everyday sort of experience. -There is a flamboyant vampire lord who calls people \"my darling\" and \"crumpet\" and \"honeybee\". That was a new one for me. -Accidental sex! Anyone know those MTV contraception ads that tell you \"Sex is no accident!\" For example: Well in this book, it is. Blame the bumpy carriage. I have no motivation to continue with the series at the moment, but if there's a buddy read somewhere I would keep going fo sho. ...more If you've been on GoodReads for any decent amount of time then you probably know Tatiana . If you don't then she is a very popular, entertaining reviewer with almost flawless taste in books and you should go read and like all her reviews abunch. Usually, we tend to agree on a lot of books. When comparing books, we generally have an 88% similarity rating which has led me, in the past, to comment that we must be soulmates. So you can understand my obvious distress when I read this book and quite lik If you've been on GoodReads for any decent amount of time then you probably know Tatiana . If you don't then she is a very popular, entertaining reviewer with almost flawless taste in books and you should go read and like all her reviews abunch. Usually, we tend to agree on a lot of books. When comparing books, we generally have an 88% similarity rating which has led me, in the past, to comment that we must be soulmates. So you can understand my obvious distress when I read this book and quite liked it when Tatiana didn't . It's hard to say what I actually liked about Soulless because it's hard to categorize what it actually is. Some people said it was a Romance, which I struggled with because there really wasn't that much romancing and Alexia, whilst prone to Lord Maccon's physique, wasn't much of a romantic either. Then there was the Steampunk which made brief appearances but didn't play a large role in the story. Alexia, a shrewish, intellectual \"over-the-hill\" spinster of good fortune finds herself in a sticky situtation when vampires start to go missing and she gets involved with Lord Maccon, a scottish werewolf who is happy to overlook her tan skin, roman nose and out-spoken temperment. It had many of the mainstays of a harlequin romance: the horrible family, the \"mystery\", the rich and handsome man. What I found I enjoyed was Alexia's voice and personality. I enjoyed her volatile relationship with Lord Maccon and I felt the story was fairly well written with good pacing and an interesting set of characters. What I didn't like about the story, and my main gripe, is with Alexia's apparent Soullessness. Alexia states that when she discovered that she was Soulless, her answer was to go look up a bunch of greek philosophy. Naturally. I do that all the time. Should I put peppercorn on my stake? Hmmmmm, what do the greek philosophers say about that? Aristotle is quoted later in regards to the soul and it is made apparent that Alexia is familiar with Aristotle. The thing is, if she really was that familiar with Aristotle then she'd know that he believed the soul to be our very essence. Our nature. The thing that drives us. The soul of the eye is sight - and all that shit. It appears that the only downside to not having a soul is that she's not very creative and she struggles with fashion. Shit. Really? You have no soul!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Okay, we already knew that, but still... Still, weirdly, despite the fact that she apparently struggles with fashion, she still feels she can berate her bff's horrible taste in hats. It's quite a conundrum! See, now I don't believe in a lot of spiritual crap stuff. I don't believe in ghosts, crystals, chi, spiritual energy, astrology, numerology, runes, tarots, I don't think I've ever even SEEN a Ouija board. You might convince me a demon is around causing issues but I'd still rather check out whether infrasound or electromagnetic issues are what's really playing up as opposed to believe that something supernatural is going on. I do still believe in souls though and I would tend to believe that if someone didn't have a soul then they would find it very difficult to love. All in all, I really felt like this aspect of the book was it's greatest potential that was never really even touched by the author. It seemed to be more of a trick used to lure us in. Oh! She doesn't have a soul? Exciting, I wonder what that's like! Carriger's answer= not all that different really... My only other problem was with the embarrasingly horrible lemon scenes. Carriger, from what I've seen, can write a lot of things, but steamy this was not. Lastly, the visit at the end from a certain historical figure was sloppily done and I felt it detracted from what was otherwise an enjoyable story for me. So, just to recap, if you woke up this morning and dressed yourself in this: Then you are most definitely going to hell for all the right reasons. ...more My apologies to all my friends who love this book, but again, I fail to understand the appeal. Like with a few other popular novels I've tried reading recently, this is simply a glorified fanfiction in print. If you ever ask me what I mean calling books \"fanfiction,\" my answer would be, as with the definition of \"porn,\" I can't articulate it, but I know when I see/read it. It's just too gratuitous and lacks substance, depth, flavor, richness, even though it, at times, entertains. Well, the first thing I can tell you is that reading this from a critical, review-writing frame of mind is not the way to enjoy it. I encountered this book when it first came out, lying on the new release table of the Union Square Barnes & Noble (that's San Francisco, not NY, B&N friends). I no longer live in the City and was visiting a friend who, as it turned out, wasn't home yet. Or answering her phone. Night was falling and I had no way of knowing how much time I would have to kill. Well, the first thing I can tell you is that reading this from a critical, review-writing frame of mind is not the way to enjoy it. I encountered this book when it first came out, lying on the new release table of the Union Square Barnes & Noble (that's San Francisco, not NY, B&N friends). I no longer live in the City and was visiting a friend who, as it turned out, wasn't home yet. Or answering her phone. Night was falling and I had no way of knowing how much time I would have to kill. This book looked light and amusing. I read it in a corner between stacks, by a window where I had good cell reception. Since I was breaking off every ten minutes to call my friend, I did not notice the choppiness that many people complain of, and in my increasing distraction the self-consciousness of the prose was less evident. The book has a blend of humor and action that was pleasantly distracting as I worried about my friend having had a motorcycle accident or been mugged (don't worry, she was fine). I recommend this for reading in waiting rooms, or while expecting an unpleasant phone call. On rereading, the flaws are more glaring: the awkward sections of exposition, the self-consciousness of authorial voice, the over-preciousness of much of the humor. However, I still found it a reasonably entertaining story with some good ideas. I appreciate how Carriger plays with genres and avoids certain tropes that alienate readers who normally avoid one or more of the genres in question. For instance, there is enough romance to please romance readers without the \"my Throbbing Vulva made me do it\" crap that so often makes me want to throw romance novels against the wall. And, thankfully, no rape or pseudo-rape amongst the homage to romance conventions. Likewise, there are some neat steampunkish touches without overwhelming amounts of mechanistic imagery. Some of Carriger's flaws tread very close to her positive attributes -- her tongue-in-cheek humor, for instance, is often too self-conscious and often crosses into smugness, giving the unfortunate impression that the author is too impressed by her own cleverness. Alexia herself seems in many ways to mirror the flaws in the writing: likable but over-confident in a way that was at odds with her purported insecurities. A number of reviewers had problems with the idea of the main character being \"Soulless\". I actually found this appealing, as I did not think that the author meant us to believe that Alexia actually lacked a soul as defined as the spiritual or moral aspect of human nature; rather, I thought she was setting up a commentary on authority (religious, scientific, patriarchal) and how it constructs identity for those under it. My interpretation was that the soullessness was a misunderstanding by limited contemporary knowledge of how Alexia's preternatural nature functioned, and that the differences she describes in herself are essentially psychosomatic. She has been told from age 6 that she is abnormal so she believes this and constructs her understanding of herself around this flawed premise. Any actual \"abnormalities\" on her part have grown out of her sense of social isolation and exceptionalism. In short, she is different because she believes that she is different. The only concrete difference we see is her effect on supernatural creatures. In an odd way this also explains the dichotomy between low self-esteem and confidence in Alexia's personality: on the one had, she is sure that there is something deeply wrong with her; on the other hand, feelings of difference that usually cause individuals to feel that they are \"weird\" she explains away as due to her lack of soul, and thus not really her fault. I also thought this might be a bit of critique of High Society, in which an Italian surname is more detrimental to one's status than the lack of a soul. Carriger specifies that Neither her family nor the members of the social circles she frequented ever noticed she was missing anything. More aggravating to me was lack of period dialogue. Of course, Carriger is hardly the only offender in this regard, but it would have been nice if she had made a bit more effort. Even the prose has an odd feel, as if she had been trying to make it sound a certain way that she herself didn't quite understand. Like the choppiness and excessively long passages of thought during conversations, this is something that could and should be taken care of by a good editor. I thought the book as a whole had a lot of potential and hope that now that the initial excitement of being published has worn off the author will settle down to a more even style. As it stands, I can't always tell whether Carriger is being clever, or really dumb. ******** Edit: it just occurred to me, after reading the Glee comparison in Kelly's review that this was the perfect song to link http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B1Nkq-... ...more 4.5/5 stars I really enjoyed this book! Alexia is such an interesting character, and the world is very similar to that of TID - WHICH I LOVED. The whole paranormal aspect was very well done and interesting to read about and I loved all the major characters! The minor characters could have been a bit better, but that's what other books are for! The story was SO GOOD and very well thought out - a lot of things surprised me, though I did catch some of the foreshadowing. Can't wait to read the rest o 4.5/5 stars I really enjoyed this book! Alexia is such an interesting character, and the world is very similar to that of TID - WHICH I LOVED. The whole paranormal aspect was very well done and interesting to read about and I loved all the major characters! The minor characters could have been a bit better, but that's what other books are for! The story was SO GOOD and very well thought out - a lot of things surprised me, though I did catch some of the foreshadowing. Can't wait to read the rest of this series - I'm sure it's only going to get better from here. ...more *sigh* Boy, am I in the minority here! Every friend of mine has given this at least three stars, and here I am not even being able to finish it. Still, I don't hate this book, so before giving my reasons for not liking it, I will be fair and go over what I did like. Our heroine, Miss Alexia Tarabotti, hasn't had an easy life. Besides being put on the shelf at the age of fifteen by her mother, she's had to deal with unjust criticism. While the people of today spend countless dollars on cancer-caus *sigh* Boy, am I in the minority here! Every friend of mine has given this at least three stars, and here I am not even being able to finish it. Still, I don't hate this book, so before giving my reasons for not liking it, I will be fair and go over what I did like. Our heroine, Miss Alexia Tarabotti, hasn't had an easy life. Besides being put on the shelf at the age of fifteen by her mother, she's had to deal with unjust criticism. While the people of today spend countless dollars on cancer-causing tanning beds and spray on tan in a cans that make them look like a walking Orange Julius, in Alexia's day and age it is simply not the fashion to have a little darker skin. Nope, alabaster is where it's at! So as you can imagine, the vampires fit in quite nicely. But not our poor Miss Tarabotti! She has been shamed and ridiculed for even having lightly tanned skin practically since she popped out of her mother's womb. And what about that dreadfully large nose Miss Tarabotti sports? Well, we can't have that , now can we? No, no, no! We'll have to take the hedge trimmers to that thing! Pfft. As I'm sure a lot of people have, I've been on the receiving end of this kind of backwards thinking that Alexia's received from her family and peers, and it doesn't feel good. So I can sympathize with Alexia. She holds her head \u2014 and her nose \u2014 high, and lets it roll off her beautifully clad shoulders. I admire that. And . . . I'm afraid that's where my interest ended. I have read of the neck nibbling (or gnawing, as the case may be) that ensues later on, and, for obvious reasons, I sincerely tried to make it to that part. But I guess even some good smut couldn't make me continue. For me, the writing made this nearly impossible to get into. Somehow it manages to read like fanfiction while still confusing me. I had to reread several passages in order to get even a semblance of what was happening in some scenes. Besides these reasons, I couldn't get into the world Carriger created and, other than Miss Tarabotti, none of the characters (no, not even Lord Maccon) appealed to me. I realize this could've changed had I given it more time, but as of now I don't have the interest to do so. I believe that 50 - 100 pages is enough to tell if a book is for you or not, and I gave it 80. To all fans of this series, especially those that are my friends, I'm sorry. I tried. :( ...more 4.0 to 4.5 stars. VERY PLEASANTLY SURPRISED is the best way I can think of to describe my reaction to this book. While there are a few urban fantasy series that I really enjoy, it is not my favorite genre, especially those series that could also be classified as \u201cparanormal romances.\u201d This book, while more \u201cVictorian steampunk\u201d than urban fantasy does certainly have a very strong \u201cromance\u201d element to the plot\u2026AND I REALLY, REALLY ENJOYED IT!! The story takes place in an alternative Victorian Lond 4.0 to 4.5 stars. VERY PLEASANTLY SURPRISED is the best way I can think of to describe my reaction to this book. While there are a few urban fantasy series that I really enjoy, it is not my favorite genre, especially those series that could also be classified as \u201cparanormal romances.\u201d This book, while more \u201cVictorian steampunk\u201d than urban fantasy does certainly have a very strong \u201cromance\u201d element to the plot\u2026AND I REALLY, REALLY ENJOYED IT!! The story takes place in an alternative Victorian London where vampires and werewolves exist and have made themselves known to the normal human population. In fact, through there very long lives and special abilities they have become very powerful in society (thinking of them as the aristocracy would give you a good idea of how they are portrayed). The main character, Alexia Tarabotti, is a spinster (at the ripe old age of 26) whose half-Italian heritage and strong-willed personality make here less than perfect marriage material according to London society. In addition to her Mediterranean appearance and her sharp wit, Alexia has another very unique quality\u2026she was born without a soul. This type of person (known in the book as being a \u201cpreternatural\u201d) has the ability to completely eliminate the abilities of all \u201csupernatural\u201d creatures that come in contact with her. As another review mentioned, she is like \u201ckryptonite\u201d to the supernatural. I found this to be a very clever and unique plot device (which is hard to come up with these days). With the above as background, the plot itself is really best described as a comedy of manners combined together with a mystery involving a complex conspiracy involving forces both human and supernatural. Part of the reason the book appealed to me is that the main character reminded me of someone out of a \u201cJane Austen\u201d novel (whose books I really enjoy). Alexia is smart, beautiful (despite the prejudices of London society), independent and a bit unconventional in so far as she does not always behave the way \u201csociety\u201d believes she should. I found the story to be engaging, the characters to be interesting and well developed and the world-building and supernatural elements to be excellent. Overall, I really enjoyed this and plan to continue reading the series. Highly Recommended!! ...more After Alexia Tarabotti commits a faux pas and accidentally kills a vampire at a party and falls under the eye of Lord Maccon, the Queen's investigator of the supernatural, she inadvertently gets involved in a plot involving werewolves, vampires, and deranged scientists. Will she be able to survive whatever is going on without suffering further embarrassment? Normally, I'm so overflowing with sheer manliness that a book with this much pink on the cover would fall beneath my radar. It sounded inter After Alexia Tarabotti commits a faux pas and accidentally kills a vampire at a party and falls under the eye of Lord Maccon, the Queen's investigator of the supernatural, she inadvertently gets involved in a plot involving werewolves, vampires, and deranged scientists. Will she be able to survive whatever is going on without suffering further embarrassment? Normally, I'm so overflowing with sheer manliness that a book with this much pink on the cover would fall beneath my radar. It sounded interesting though. High society, werewolves, vampires, dirigibles, what's not to like? Gail Carriger takes a fairly predictable plot and uses it to mine a rich vein of comedic gold. If Jane Austen and P.G. Wodehouse collaborated on a novel about werewolves and vampires, this would be it. The relationship of Lord Maccon and Alexia is straight out of every romantic comedy ever made and still comes off pretty funny. Alexia herself is by far one of the funnier characters I've come across recently, both in dialogue and in deed. Her friend, the flamboyantly gay vampire Lord Akeldama is worth the price of admission alone. To sum up, while it has the distinctive taste of chick lit, Soulless was a pretty enjoyable read for those who like their humor to have a British flavor. And guys, it probably won't make a significant dip in your testosterone level to give it a read. ...more Monsters are inevitably campy. That is a rule. You might not think it\u2019s true, but you\u2019re wrong. I\u2019m sorry to be the one to break this to you, but the rule also applies to space. Monster stories and space stories range from those that deny the campiness and try to be really soulful social commentary to those that are hilarious in acknowledging the campiness and still manage to have something brilliant to say. There are levels in between those two extremes, but I\u2019m trying to give you the framework Monsters are inevitably campy. That is a rule. You might not think it\u2019s true, but you\u2019re wrong. I\u2019m sorry to be the one to break this to you, but the rule also applies to space. Monster stories and space stories range from those that deny the campiness and try to be really soulful social commentary to those that are hilarious in acknowledging the campiness and still manage to have something brilliant to say. There are levels in between those two extremes, but I\u2019m trying to give you the framework of how I evaluate monster stories. Thankfully, in this book, Carriger embraces the silly. I wouldn\u2019t go so far as to say that Soulless has anything brilliant to say, but it does not commit the sin of claiming to have soul where there really is none. I\u2019ll give you a couple of examples of what I\u2019m talking about, so maybe it will make sense. (Note: if you hate people comparing movies to books, none of my reviews are for you, but especially not this one . I\u2019m sorry, but comparisons must be made.) With vampires, you\u2019ve got your Daybreakers and you\u2019ve got your Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the Movie . The former manages to be completely serious and still not make the obvious social commentary about finite resources that was sitting right there, waiting to be made. The latter is silly the whole time, but still has a nice, solid girl-power message. With space, you\u2019ve got the obvious example of the Star Wars series. The new trilogy is outrageously campy, but never openly acknowledges it, so I\u2019m left incredibly uncomfortable with everything it\u2019s telling me. The old trilogy has one-liners and robot comic relief and whatnot to give you that silly sense that We\u2019re In Space, Friends! Examples abound, and my theory is that camp is inevitable in these genres if only because they involve elaborate costumes. So, embrace the camp, writers! I can see it there, even if you don\u2019t want me to. Trying to hide it makes me embarrassed for you. I\u2019m feeling like the same rule applies to the romance genre. Bodies are funny, so when there are these earnest descriptions of passionate sex in these books I\u2019m laughing at them, not with them. And they don\u2019t seem more passionate for their excess earnestness. This book is a relief because Carriger combines monsters and romance and takes none of it seriously. It\u2019s a pretty slap-sticky story, actually, and that made it difficult to get into to begin with, but after I got more used to that, I liked it. Basically, the story is about this girl: She is a \"preternatural\" Cinderella, but then she meets werewolf Ewan McGreggor and they reenact a scene from the show Moonlighting , but realize WAAAAY more quickly than Bruce Willis and Cybill Shepherd (thank god) that they were confusing love for hate and start getting\u2019 it on. (Gerard Butler: [image error] is the more obvious casting choice for our hero, but Ewan McGregor is perfect, and I\u2019m still mad at Butler for The Ugly Truth , so he\u2019s not getting any work from me.) To add to an already solid sexual tension, in the background you\u2019ve got a solicitous but exasperated Jeeves, a Rupert Giles werewolf, Elizabeth Bennett\u2019s parents, a Scottish accent, mad scientists, a steampunk tea kettle, and, best of all, an umbrella weapon!!! It\u2019s true, there\u2019s an odd running joke about sitting on a porcupine, which is kind of funny, but maybe going a little too far away from Buster Keaton and toward the Lil\u2019 Rascals for my taste. You\u2019ve got to take the lame whoopee cushions with the awesome banana peels, though, and no complaining. I think that\u2019s what people mean when they say life\u2019s not fair. But, here\u2019s what I want to talk to you about today: appearances. My favorite book when I was little was The Blue Castle . Valancy Stirling is told all her life that she\u2019s ugly, but really she\u2019s spectacular, and she gets to shove it in everyone\u2019s faces. In Soulless , Alexia has pretty much the same character arc, so she probably gets an automatic pass from me just for that. That said, in my limited reading of the romance genre, the thing that I HATE THE MOST (other than the rape) is the idea that there is one, specific kind of beauty that you can describe using hair and breasts in a really vague, annoying way. That seems so false to me, because in my experience, no matter what I think of my friends\u2019 appearances when I first meet them, they become beautiful to me after I know them. Same rule with enemies, but the opposite outcome. So, we all get kind of riled up when people describe women really shallowly or assume that women will be one way or another based on their looks, and with good reason. I even think part of the point of Soulless is \u201cWho knows why people are attracted to each other since there is no one kind of beauty?\u201d which I like. But have we all just seen so many movies where beautiful women fall all over themselves about ugly men that we\u2019re permanently mad and don\u2019t care how meanly and shallowly we talk about men? I feel like these books are almost cruel in their stereotyping of the physical appearances of men. In Soulless , we\u2019ve got the hero, who is a growl and a half, no doubt, with his Scottish and his hungry eyes. But then we\u2019ve got poor Mr. MacDougall, who\u2019s a coward because he\u2019s got a full figure. It\u2019s pretty easy to see how our own genders are marginalized, and I guess that\u2019s why we like it \u2013 it\u2019s easy. But why do we talk about each other with such disregard and even cruelty? I\u2019ll never forget the day, not so very long ago, when I realized men have feelings, too. It\u2019s pretty terrible, but the thought had just never occurred to me before. I\u2019m sure it\u2019s not a usual thing to have that be a major revelation, but sometimes I look around at the little, petty meannesses between people, and I think maybe we all should be reminded . . . I don\u2019t know . . . that people are not different? Just, not to be a jerk? Maybe it wasn\u2019t mean in the past to stereotype men based on their body types because women were judged on looks and men were judged on money, but even assuming that used to be true, I don\u2019t really think it is a valid excuse anymore. And certainly not in a book that seems like it\u2019s trying to overcome stereotypes of the female protagonist. It bothers me when people are hurt by an attitude and then choose to perpetuate that same attitude towards others instead of reflecting on their own similar or contributing behavior. Rant almost over, but I also have to say that this double standard of how women are allowed to act about men reminds me of Carrie-Bradshaw-type girls who will be like, \u201cI forced my boyfriend go to a horrible party that he hated, and now I will cry into my pillow because he doesn\u2019t give me DIAmonds .\u201d I\u2019m not saying people shouldn\u2019t demand respect from each other, but demanding respect and being a jerk are not the same thing. Rant over. So, that\u2019s my complaint, but I really took more space ranting here about it than it took in the book, and I still liked the story. Carriger clearly understands my theory about the carnival nature of romance and describes the bodies with a silliness that is refreshing. I was laughing with her, not at her. Plus, it was only one book long! I can choose whether to read the next installment or not! The book was actually the length of just the one story. I can\u2019t tell you how pleased that makes me. High fives all around for that! Overall, it\u2019s openly campy and upfront about its lack of soul, and that\u2019s really all I\u2019d ask for from a monster romance. ...more *Originally read 7/4/10 - 7/5/10* This book was, quite simply, delightful! I finished it with a big smile on my face and giggled almost continually while reading it. My husband finally banished me to the bedroom because I was irritating him while he watched a movie. The world that Gail Carriger created was so much fun and so interesting. I loved seeing a familiar government amid the new and exciting facets of it. I loved the set up of the supernatural creatures and the singular abilities of the pr *Originally read 7/4/10 - 7/5/10* This book was, quite simply, delightful! I finished it with a big smile on my face and giggled almost continually while reading it. My husband finally banished me to the bedroom because I was irritating him while he watched a movie. The world that Gail Carriger created was so much fun and so interesting. I loved seeing a familiar government amid the new and exciting facets of it. I loved the set up of the supernatural creatures and the singular abilities of the preternatural. Who would have thought that having no soul would be so useful around vampires and werewolves? But my favorite part of the book had to be the interaction between Alexia and Lord Maccon. Hilarious! Alexia inherited more than her Italian ancestry from her father, she also inherited her soulless state. Alexia is firmly on the shelf and not really bothered by the fact. She goes her own way and ignores her mother whenever she gets too overbearing. Alexia is quite unlike any other woman of her acquaintance. She's witty, opinionated, and pragmatic, but can also be quite fierce. I love how prim she can be about some things, but quite forward in others. Also, her absolute horror about her friend's ugly hats was hilarious. I really loved how Alexia's soulless state was emphasized. She can dress well, but she never can achieve that extra pop. Her choices always reflect a lack of soul. I thought that was a rather clever point to bring up. I also liked that the soul wasn't necessarily a religious thing. Multiple people had too much soul, although few had as little as Alexia. Alexia's friendship with the foppish Lord Akeldama was great! He was such an interesting character. His mincing around and speaking with great drama always got a smile from me. I also loved his devoted, little harem. Three cheers to the author for creating characters that I love to pieces! One part that was so sweet was when Alexia went to wake him up to keep her promise. I had a total Awwww! moment. Lord Maccon was so gruff and sweet. He was the perfect balance to Alexia. I loved when he was ranting about her ignoring him. He kept talking about how it was \"her turn\" because he made the last move. It was very cute watching him have to be reminded that Alexia is not a werewolf so she doesn't understand what game he's playing. The sexual tension and eventual culmination of said tension was very well done. It was delicious when they finally kissed. I can't wait to try the next book! This is definitely a series to pay attention to. *Updated: I listened to this in audiobook for my reread and absolutely adored it. The narrator was fabulous and really made the story come alive.* ...more Recipe for success: - Liberal amount of Austen & Wodehouse - Generous helping of the supernatural - Sprinkling of steampunk - Heavy dose of humor - Dollop of romance Icing: - One sorely abused treacle tart - One hedgehog, slightly squashed What a success Soulless is. No First Book Syndrome here. Gail Carriger shows that she is a woman with ideas in this alternate history paranormal tale. Not only does she have ideas, but Carriger knows how to execute them. Soulless is a refreshing and wildly amusing Recipe for success: - Liberal amount of Austen & Wodehouse - Generous helping of the supernatural - Sprinkling of steampunk - Heavy dose of humor - Dollop of romance Icing: - One sorely abused treacle tart - One hedgehog, slightly squashed What a success Soulless is. No First Book Syndrome here. Gail Carriger shows that she is a woman with ideas in this alternate history paranormal tale. Not only does she have ideas, but Carriger knows how to execute them. Soulless is a refreshing and wildly amusing new take on the supernatural--and on the strong, capable heroine. The characters are memorable, the writing is tight, and the banter is delightfully witty. Her main character, Alexia Tarabotti, is a sharp and intelligent spinster whose lively conversations and astute observations belie her status of \"soulless.\" She's a wonderful and determined character. Miss Tarabotti is very passionate about her beliefs, and more than willing to whack would-be attackers about the head with her parasol. Alexia lives in a Victorian England where vampires and werewolves are accepted by society. She's acquainted with several members of the supernatural set--most notably the outrageous vampire Lord Akeldama (he often speaks in italics, my petal ), and the gruff and brawny Alpha werewolf, Lord Maccon (a delicious Highland brute). Carriger's story takes Alexia through high-society functions, human and supernatural courting rituals, familial unrest, gruesome attacks, and several instances of appalling attire. The result is enthralling, brisk, and sure to keep you smiling throughout. I wish book 2 were here already! ...more Loved it! Loved it, loved it, loved it. I always get really nervous when I write reviews for books that I have such positive reactions to, especially ones like this one that have such strong personalities. This book knows who it is and what it's trying to do and does its thing with aplomb. I happened to love it immediately after reading the first sentence, but I can understand how if the humor in the writing or the language she uses, or if you don't like romances, or stories with their tongues f Loved it! Loved it, loved it, loved it. I always get really nervous when I write reviews for books that I have such positive reactions to, especially ones like this one that have such strong personalities. This book knows who it is and what it's trying to do and does its thing with aplomb. I happened to love it immediately after reading the first sentence, but I can understand how if the humor in the writing or the language she uses, or if you don't like romances, or stories with their tongues firmly in cheek, or stories set in Victorian England, or dirigibles, or spinsters . . . or whatever else this story has that I shoved into my brain as fast as I could, if none of that works for you, or pieces don't . . . I could see how you might not like this book. Of course, if that's the case, I also reserve the right to think you are wrong, so so very wrong. Please go marinate yourself in your wrongness. This book was a goddamn delight from start to finish. I don't even know what else to say. This book was such a perfect mash-up of things I love, put together in such a very appealing way. I haven't read very many steampunk books, and I usually avoid books about werewolves and vampires unless they are heavily recommended, but the slightly skewed Victorian setting, proceeding form an alternate history where after the Renaissance and the Age of Enlightenment, the world's vampires and werewolves came out of the shadows to live among polite society, immediately caught my imagination. The narrator had this sassy and perfect attitude, and our main character Alexia herself, not to mention the werewolf Lord Maccon, were instantly lovable. I'm not usually into werewolves, but DAMN SON. It's just, it feels like this book is mine. I can see myself becoming quite obsessed with it. It's honestly not even that great! I mean, it's great. Lies. What I mean is that nothing it does hasn't been done before, but the way it's all put together made it seem like I'd never read anything like it before. I was giggling through half of it and swooning through more, and then being super creeped out, and then back to swooning. Literally the only complaint I have is that the narrator was a bit unidentifiable. It was a closed third person, yet also seemed to be omniscient, and switched from character to character depending on the paragraph. But I was willing to forgive it that slight misstep because SO MUCH FUN. If you like any of the following things, read this book immediately: \u2022Sass. \u2022A story about vampires and werewolves that doesn't make you want to rip your hair out. \u2022Comedies of manners. \u2022A satisfying romance between two stubborn, opinionated people. \u2022Good sexy times. \u2022Dirigibles, clockwork items, bustles, parasols, carriages and other such items. \u2022Really creepy bad guys. \u2022Seriously though the kissing. ...more Several days ago was a stressful day for me, and the thought of picking up the two fantasy books I was reading didn't sound that appealing. At the time I wanted a light and fluffy, mindless entertainment read and I got exactly that with Soulless . This is an alternate history story with vampires, werewolves, a little steampunk, and lots of laughs. When you combine the mannerisms, the swear words (nincompoop!), and the wonderful characters, you get one of the most entertaining books I've read in aw Several days ago was a stressful day for me, and the thought of picking up the two fantasy books I was reading didn't sound that appealing. At the time I wanted a light and fluffy, mindless entertainment read and I got exactly that with Soulless . This is an alternate history story with vampires, werewolves, a little steampunk, and lots of laughs. When you combine the mannerisms, the swear words (nincompoop!), and the wonderful characters, you get one of the most entertaining books I've read in awhile. As long as you don't take anything too seriously, I highly recommend this book. ...more Warning. Review might contain minor spoilers. Read at your own risk. I am very sad pissed because I had so many high expectations for this book. The blurb sounded awesome, most of my friends\u2019 reviews are five and four stars. The cover is good, the author seems obsessed with English tea, which seemed like a cool thing until I read her Q&A at the end of the book. After that it all got annoying because all she does is talk about her freaking tea. You love tea. I get it. Move the fuck on. I know I Warning. Review might contain minor spoilers. Read at your own risk. I am very sad pissed because I had so many high expectations for this book. The blurb sounded awesome, most of my friends\u2019 reviews are five and four stars. The cover is good, the author seems obsessed with English tea, which seemed like a cool thing until I read her Q&A at the end of the book. After that it all got annoying because all she does is talk about her freaking tea. You love tea. I get it. Move the fuck on. I know I\u2019m picking on her because I\u2019m angry. So what? I was expecting Soulless to be a cute humorous book about Steampunk and vampires. A light read. Pure fun, ya know? What I got is a mismatched Christmas tree made out of boring Victorian fiction, Paranormal Romance, inconsistent and generic storyline and bad humor. \u201cAsk zem. Ask zem, please, to look for ze missing ones. My master, he iz a rove. He vanishez last week. Poof.\u201d She snapped her fingers. \u201cLike zat. Zey brought me to ze hive because I am pretty and do good work, but ze comtesse, she only just toleratez me. Without hiz protection, I do not know how long I will last.\u201d I feel like the mix of genres is too much and is keeping the universe from developing properly. I was also expecting Soulless to be more Steampunk than this. This added to my disappointment. The main focus of the story is on the Paranormal side, and the Steampunk is barely there. A bunch of airships, some devices and a few mad scientists. That is all. Enjoy it while you can. I am aware that this is slightly better than the typical Steampunk Romance style, where the Steampunk elements consist of a bunch of cosmetic goggles, used especially during sex, and some airships mindlessly thrown around. Nevertheless, I still can\u2019t call Soulless Steampunk. If you want a perfect combination of Steampunk and vampires, you should check out Clay and Susan Griffith\u2019s The Greyfriar . If you want a good Steampunk/Paranormal Romance then go for Meljean Broo\u2019s The Iron Duke or Delilah S. Dawson\u2019s Wicked as They Come . The main character in this book is Miss Alexia Tarabotti, a half Italian spinster who thinks she\u2019s too fugly for anyone to even spare her a second glance. Oh, and she suffers from the Cinderella syndrome. Does this seem suspicious yet? No? The male lead is Lord Maccon, the werewolf Alpha who works for the B.U.R., the Bureau of Unnatural Registry, and guess what? Are you guessing? No? Are you sure? Of course he falls for her! Alexia's generous curves[\u2026] Oh nooo. Come on! She\u2019s so unattractive with her ugly nose and olive skin! Are you blind?! There was just something about Alexia Tarabotti that made her immensely appealing. Let me guess. Her parasol? \u201cDid I mention how lovely you are looking today, Miss Tarabotti?\u201d He pulled the carriage to a full stop. Of course. Alexia could hardly point out the many flaws in his theories after such a compliment. Could hardly point out. Really?! Great figure. Generous curves. Boobies. Really?! [\u2026] her generous breasts [\u2026] Sure no man wants to marry her. Sure. Keep telling yourself that. What does this prove, eh? Yes, our dear old Alexia is a Mary Sue. Why isn\u2019t anyone mentioning any of this? I really had no idea the MC will be a fucking Mary Sue. I wouldn\u2019t even bother with the book if I knew because there\u2019s one thing I hate more than insta-love, or love triangles. That\u2019s a fucking Mary Sue MC. Lord Maccon, on the other hand, is a complete blob. I couldn\u2019t form any feelings for him. He was simply there to save the MC when she was in trouble, form a god-forsaken romance and make fangirls sigh each time he makes an appearance. Oh, and I also think the way he shows his affections for Alexia is simply weird. Lord Maccon sank his human\u2014due to their shockingly informal embrace and the fact that she was a preternatural\u2014teeth into the place where her neck and shoulder joined.[\u2026] Someone cleared his throat delicately. Lord Maccon bit down harder. I mean really. The dude was munching on her neck like on a cooked rib and she thought it\u2019s hot. Am I the only one who thinks this is weird as fuck? Ok, later on we find out that he was in heat or something and not thinking straight. Blah blah blah I don\u2019t care, it was still weird as fuck. I think Soulless would have been a better book if the romance wasn\u2019t there. Maybe then the author could have focused more on the story and worldbuilding. Less talk, less time wasting, more action. That\u2019s what I want to read about. If you have any good Steampunk Urban Fantasy books you would recommend, feel free to list them in the comments section below. Or above. Whatever makes you happy. Review also posted on ...more Actual rating *4.25 stars* I had such a fun ride with this book. The characters and relationships are what got me excited and eventually I just fell in love with it all. It started a bit slow for me and I would have liked a bit more world-building, but I loved the story overall and will definitely be continuing the series in the future!! I haven't had this much fun reading a book in ages. Witty dialogue, believable characters, and a real sense of the Victorian--and steampunk!--make Carriger's book a treat. Off to the sequel! 50 Shades of Shock by Miss Ivy Hisselpenny Dear surveyors of literature, I must warn you politely in advance. If you might easily be offended by frivolous behaviour like holding hands in public or scandalous activity such as talking to unmarried men without a chaperone, I urge you to avoid your eyes and seek fullfillment of your literary gusto elsewhere. The tale of my good friend, Alexia Tarabotti, is of a nature highly inappropriate to discuss in such a frank and open environment as in this review 50 Shades of Shock by Miss Ivy Hisselpenny Dear surveyors of literature, I must warn you politely in advance. If you might easily be offended by frivolous behaviour like holding hands in public or scandalous activity such as talking to unmarried men without a chaperone, I urge you to avoid your eyes and seek fullfillment of your literary gusto elsewhere. The tale of my good friend, Alexia Tarabotti, is of a nature highly inappropriate to discuss in such a frank and open environment as in this review your gaze is witnessing as of right now. Not only is Miss Tarabotti's dislike of my beautiful collection of hats of quizzical nature, but her questionable choice of supernatural relations is quite befuddeling. Just thinking of the constant danger she is in in such non-human company makes me want to feint right on the spot..... Apologies, dear readers, I needed a moment to compose myself. But apparently aquaintences with werewolves and vampires are quite common for my dear friend. At least, I'm relieved to admit, she's not entertaining, dare I even write these outrages suggestions, Americans! No, my Alexia is a humorous, adventorous young spinster with very strong opinions. So talking to her can sometimes be very difficult. But, my oh my, when she confesses her eventful life to me my heart is beating in my chest like a drum and sometimes I even feel quite unsettling urges in the nether regions I'm ashamed to speak of. So, if you ain't of squeamish nature, I might introduce you to my good friend, but don't say afterwards I didn't advise caution in approaching her. Yours truly, Miss Ivy Hisselpenny ...more Fantasy of manners, steampunk, and historical romances can all take a step back because this book has it all and it does it better than all y'all! Witty, sweet, and damn good fun, Soulless is a book that grabs you from the opening page and whisks you through the plot in a no-nonsense manner than belies its depths of humour and intelligence. It is fast-paced easy reading that is, at the same time, well-written and clever. I should admit two things before I start this review. I didn't finish this book; however, it does not belong on my ick-attack shelf (the shelf for truly bad books). Second, I really wanted to like this book. I really did. I have several problems with this book. Maybe, I'm the wrong person to read this because I have never read those regency romance novels. The idea behind the book is good. Carriger's gets full points for that (she gets full points for two other things, see the end of this review) I should admit two things before I start this review. I didn't finish this book; however, it does not belong on my ick-attack shelf (the shelf for truly bad books). Second, I really wanted to like this book. I really did. I have several problems with this book. Maybe, I'm the wrong person to read this because I have never read those regency romance novels. The idea behind the book is good. Carriger's gets full points for that (she gets full points for two other things, see the end of this review). The first problem I had is that Carriger keeps switching between two narrative voices; I'm not even sure she or her editor were aware of this. One voice is very formal, the other less so. Eventually this becomes distracting. It doesn't work and makes the reader wonder about the change. The fantasy elements of the novel don't seem well thought. It is true that Carriger is trying to be fresh (maybe, considering the UF genre now, it is impossible) with her idea of a vampire hive and a soulless person. The elements don't work because they don't seem well thought out. To boldy use the lack of a soul as a plot point is an intersting idea, yet any reader could say that Alexia, in fact, has a soul. I also would have liked to see more of Alexia's thoughts on the matter (at least in the first 125 pages). It doesn't cut it just to have her read Greek philosphers and she's fine. The vampires, despite the use of the hive, are just like every other vampire and so are the werewolves. Worse, Carriger uses, or seems to, every single UF cliche about heroines in the first 100 pages. Alexia doesn't think she is pretty, but she has a beautiful body. She's exotic because her father was a heathen Italian (why her mother would marry a heathen Italian is never explained). This is unique point one. She is soulless (something not even her mother knows about her, though Alexia was told at a young age). That is unique point two. She reads more than the average lady which makes her, somehow, knowledgable about sex even though she is virgin. That's unique point three. She is better than her airhead family. Unique point four. Her soulless state is unusal; she is the only soulless one in the area. Unique point five. She designs her own parsols. Unique point six. Someone put her out of my misery. At times it seems that Carriger is trying to be cute and funny. She almost is, and I believe the idea would've worked better in a shorter format. Sadly, much of the cute and funny comes across as annoying. As a novel it only makes me, once again, realize how good Jane Austen and Elizabeth Barrett Browning 's Aurora Leigh And Other Poems are in terms of style. Carriger is drawing on both these works and comes across as a poor last place finisher. There are, however, two very good things that Carriger does here, that while not ensuring this book or a series a second chance, will make me look for her work outside of this. The first, and most important, is that Carriger gives Alexia a true friend, Ivy. Both women interact with each as equals even though each has a flaw that annoys the other. I liked that. The other is that Carriger presents a relationship of equal that is not a silly love triangle. Because of this, when Carriger writes something outside of this series, I'll check it out. ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 Soulless is my first foray into the world of \u201csteampunk.\u201d Well, other than the writings of H.G. Wells and Jules Verne, read to me by my adventurous mother. Dirigable from Ms. Carriger\u2019s website. I will be honest and say I just didn\u2019t see the appeal until somewhere around the middle of the third chapter. Maybe I was too focused on figuring out the subtle world building to sit back and enjoy the ride until then. (Unsure what a claviger, drone, or dewan was, I do still wish there had been a glos \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u00bd Soulless is my first foray into the world of \u201csteampunk.\u201d Well, other than the writings of H.G. Wells and Jules Verne, read to me by my adventurous mother. Dirigable from Ms. Carriger\u2019s website. I will be honest and say I just didn\u2019t see the appeal until somewhere around the middle of the third chapter. Maybe I was too focused on figuring out the subtle world building to sit back and enjoy the ride until then. (Unsure what a claviger, drone, or dewan was, I do still wish there had been a glossary provided. At my age, I need to read things more than once to comprehend them. Scroll about half-way down the page on this link and these terms, and others, will be explained: Soulless on Shelfari .) And the world building is subtle at first. It took a while to see things take off or even understand why this was considered steampunk instead of paranormal. However, when things do take off \u2013 they zoom! I will tell you Miss Alexis Tarabotti, a preternatural, and Lord Conall Maccon, the Alpha leader of the Woolsey pack of werewolves, are delightful and their witty dialogues entertaining. Each feels the other is in the way of their investigation, all the while denying their mutually growing attraction. There is evil afoot in Victorian London and these two are bound and determined to find it and root it out. For those of you, like me, who find the going slow at first, stick with it; it\u2019s well worth your time. Amazing secondary characters too! What a fun read! ...more Fans of Steampunk, rejoice. And better count those who adore Steampunk with a great romance that has a delightful, witty and very original heroine. Gail Carriger\u2019s Soulless will be on the lips of many before the end of the year. This is one of the most refreshing books I have read for 2009. Orbit has a very good thing with Gail Carriger. This freshman novel is near perfect in its writing and storytelling. When a book such as Soulless brings forth such laughs and an abundance of happiness while y Fans of Steampunk, rejoice. And better count those who adore Steampunk with a great romance that has a delightful, witty and very original heroine. Gail Carriger\u2019s Soulless will be on the lips of many before the end of the year. This is one of the most refreshing books I have read for 2009. Orbit has a very good thing with Gail Carriger. This freshman novel is near perfect in its writing and storytelling. When a book such as Soulless brings forth such laughs and an abundance of happiness while you read, it is a true winner in my eyes. I couldn\u2019t stop smiling for hours after I finished reading. Soulless is about Alexia Tarbotti, a twenty-six year old Victorian spinster who lives in London with her stepfather, mother and two sisters who embody incredible beauty. They are diamonds, while Alexia is considered to be a lump of coal. Her mother never allowed Alexia to have her coming out and placed her on the shelf at fifteen because of Alexia looks. Her deceased biological father was Italian and gave Alexia her long nose, dark looks and too many curves that are considered acceptable. She also has this bad habit of being a nibbler and eating when it suites her. Alexia has a dark secret because of her father. She is known as a preternatural, one who doesn\u2019t have a soul. Alexia has a heart and can feel emotions but because she has no morals, she uses reason and logic instead. As a preternatural, anytime Alexia touches a supernatural creature like a vampire or werewolf, they lose their abilities. Her kind used to hunt these creatures throughout time. And if Alexia is found out, it could go very badly for her. Alexia\u2019s secret is about to come out because one night while she is at a ball, sitting alone in a library with her nose out of joint because there was no real food for her to eat, she is attacked by a vampire. The vampire had to audacity to try and suck her blood without even an introduction! Alexia defends herself with her parasol, which is one of her most favorite things in the world. Because she kills the vampire, she is in dire straits. Alexia is pretends to faint and is found by her nemesis, Lord Maccon who is the fourth Earl of Woolsey and the Chief Minister in Charge of Supernatural Liaison for the Greater London Area. He works for the Bureau of Unnatural Registry (BUR), a division of Queen Victoria\u2019s Civil Service and also happens to be Scottish and the alpha to the Woolsey werewolf pack. Alexia and Maccon don\u2019t get along because of an incident with a hedgehog that he blames Alexia for. For some reason the vampire was starved and that was why he attacked Alexia. Because vampires live in hives and have queens, there should be no reason for a vampire to be so hungry and attacking the good people of London. Along with Maccon\u2019s beta, Professor Lyall, they begin an investigation and find out that both vampires and werewolves are disappearing. It looks like something dastardly is at play that could uproot the whole supernatural community. Armed with her parasol and good sense, Alexia will do some investigating of her own. She is very good friends with Lord Akeldama, a very witty and old vampire whose personality is as outrageous as his wardrobe. He gives her sound advice on where to go and who to be aware of. She also has her other good friend and owner of horrendous bonnets, Miss Ivy Hisselpenny to bounce ideas off of. Unfortunately, Alexia is in deeper trouble than she would have ever expected especially when the BUR offices are broken into and her file is stolen and Countess Nadasdy, the vampire queen of the Westminster Hive warns Alexia that there are many who would like to eliminate her. Alexia would like nothing better than to forget any of this is real, but how can she when she is attacked too many times to count? And then there is Lord Maccon who pops out of nowhere to protect her as well as kiss her senseless and dare to give her love bites around her neck for anyone to see. Soulless is a rousing good time. The sights and sounds of Victorian England are shown so well here where you will be lost in the world of vampires, werewolves and mad scientists who have an obsession with octopuses. Not only is there a great deal of action but a wonderful romance between Alexia and Maccon that is too adorable for words. Gail makes sure to build up Alexia and Maccon\u2019s attraction for one another slowly to the point these two are ready to combust because they can\u2019t keep their hands off one another. Because Alexia is a proper virginal miss, she is still very innocent in the ways of courting and love. She knows the mechanics of attraction and the outcome due to some naughty books she has read that her deceased father owned. And watching Maccon come to grips with his uncontrollable lust and eventual devotion and love for Alexia is very sweet. The mystery surrounding the supernatural disappearances is written so very well and you will be cheering for Alexia because she is the one to figure things out. Her reactions are priceless and her voice and internal musing are the highlights when reading. There are not many books I can recommend that will make you want to drop everything you are doing and run out to your nearest bookstore to buy. Soulless is one of them. This is one book that you must own. I am truly in awe of Gail Carriger\u2019s writing talent and I am utterly amazed it took her so long to be published. She is a true superstar of the publishing world and because of her I have a new respect for the Steampunk genre that I so callously felt was a fad that would die out. With Gail Carriger writing her Parasol Protectorate novels, that will not be the case. I can say with utmost certainty that Soulless deserves an A+ and one of the best books I have read for 2009. ...more What strikes me most about this book is how much, despite the vampires and werewolves and vague steampunkery, this feels like a very straightforward romance novel. Not a bad specimen of a romance novel, but so exactly falling into those tropes. If you took one of the few romances I've ever read, one where the main female character was a spunky female detective who ran afoul of the handsome, rough-around-the-edges-but-still-well-off male character and they gradually discovered they feel strongly What strikes me most about this book is how much, despite the vampires and werewolves and vague steampunkery, this feels like a very straightforward romance novel. Not a bad specimen of a romance novel, but so exactly falling into those tropes. If you took one of the few romances I've ever read, one where the main female character was a spunky female detective who ran afoul of the handsome, rough-around-the-edges-but-still-well-off male character and they gradually discovered they feel strongly about each other, and he rescues her from her spinster state even though she's spunky and self-sufficient and could survive without a husband...and replaced the conspiracy they're looking into with werewolves and vampires, you'd have almost exactly the same book. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more Soulless was a light-hearted, often amusing read with two likeable main characters that was unfortunately let down by the slow plot, half-assed world building and lack of interesting secondary characters. Going into this book I was somewhat sceptical about the setting. Vampires, werewolves and Victorian society don\u2019t really appeal to me. Probably because Twilight ruined vampires for me and the invasions of Ireland followed by hundreds of years of ruthless subjugation ruined the British Empire fo Soulless was a light-hearted, often amusing read with two likeable main characters that was unfortunately let down by the slow plot, half-assed world building and lack of interesting secondary characters. Going into this book I was somewhat sceptical about the setting. Vampires, werewolves and Victorian society don\u2019t really appeal to me. Probably because Twilight ruined vampires for me and the invasions of Ireland followed by hundreds of years of ruthless subjugation ruined the British Empire for me (although Twilight was probably still worse tbf). Ultimately I found the portrayal of Victorian society to be immersive and well-written. Although I know little about the time period, it seemed realistic and I really appreciated how the extremely high standards of \u2018etiquette\u2019 were applied consistently throughout the story, with the main character taking these standards as a give-in and not constantly justifying them to a modern audience. On the other hand the integration of magical elements (especially into the world\u2019s history) was haphazard and inconsistent. The two main characters were likeable and interesting throughout and their interactions provided some of the books best moments and definitely best dialogue. I really liked how Alexia pwned Victorian era gender stereotypes and restrictions without it ever feeling forced (or that modern ideas about gender-equality were being shoe-horned into a society where they didn\u2019t exist). Maccon was also a cool character and provided some moments of badassery. My only complaint about the two main characters would be how much time was spent on their romance, especially given the way that they had to constantly navigate formality and etiquette. Maybe this is a feature of the genre or something but I would have liked to see the romance sub-plot get less intense focus and be worked into the main storyline better. Other than the 2 main characters the cast in this book was largely forgettable. The only particularly memorable or likeable secondary character was Professor Lyall, Maccon\u2019s sidekick, who provided a constant stream of witty one-liners and good advice. The other secondary characters were mostly forgettable and often irritating. Alexia\u2019s family were shallow snobs with few redeeming qualities, her best friend was extremely bland and unremarkable (the only notable feature of her character was her propensity for flamboyant hats) and Lord Akeldama was a cringe-inducingly camp clich\u00e9 of a gay man. (view spoiler) [ The moment best illustrating this came when he was giving Alexia some crucial information during a deadly fight with a mysterious monster/robot; exclaiming \u201cRub out the word my darling tulip\u201d before collapsing. Apparently Akeldama is so camp that he felt obligated to use up all of his remaining strength, and interrupt a vital message, to use the phrase \u2018my darling tulip\u2019. Really? (hide spoiler) ] The villains, when they were finally revealed, turned out to be a bunch of clich\u00e9d evil scientists whose lack of depth or complexity would make a bond villain cringe. Overall while this book ultimately frustrated by the slow moving plot, unremarkable and often annoying secondary characters and lack of consistent or immersive worldbuilding. There were still enough enjoyable features to merit a recommendation to anyone looking for a light read. ...more Soulless is one of the best audio books I have listened to. The story is wickedly funny, filled with clever humor, brilliant characters and a delicious romance! The story was just wonderful and I\u2019m sure my enjoyment was enhanced by the excellent narration of Emily Gray. Alexia Tarabotti is \u201csoulless\u201d or someone who can cancel out the supernatural powers of another. A state she inherited from her Italian father. With her unconventional (for Victorian England) Italian looks, and her tendency to sp Soulless is one of the best audio books I have listened to. The story is wickedly funny, filled with clever humor, brilliant characters and a delicious romance! The story was just wonderful and I\u2019m sure my enjoyment was enhanced by the excellent narration of Emily Gray. Alexia Tarabotti is \u201csoulless\u201d or someone who can cancel out the supernatural powers of another. A state she inherited from her Italian father. With her unconventional (for Victorian England) Italian looks, and her tendency to speak her mind, Alexia finds herself a spinster at the ripe \u201cold\u201d age of twenty-six. Not that she actually cares in the least. When a vampire attacks Alexia in the most rude way, not even bothering to introduce himself before (the nerve!). Alexia has no other choice but to defend herself, and ends up accidentally staking him with her parasol. This brings on quite a few headaches one of which is Lord Maccon showing up annoyed that Alexia is again in the middle of trouble. Lord Maccon, an Alpha werewolf, is the head of BUR, The Bureau of Unnatural Registry, an organization in place to keep order to the supernatural community. Lord Maccon has been a pain in Alexia\u2019s ass since an unfortunate incident involving a hedgehog that was completely not her fault ! Whether Lord Maccon likes it or not she is getting down to the bottom of this attack and the recent disappearances of lone vampires and werewolves. Oh, this story was complete and utter fun! Sort of like injecting vampires, werewolves, and the supernatural into Pride and Prejudice. Picture Eliza Bennett battling it out with a werewolf Mr. Darcy (with a little more naughtiness *wink, wink*), and you have Soulless . I loved their relationship, and anyone could see they were crazy for each other with all the verbal sparring! Of course, with Lord Maccon being a werewolf, control is not always an option and their attraction is not something either can resist acting on, making their behavior not always acceptable\u2026 \"Oh, Herbert,\" she said pleadingly to her silent husband, \"you must make him marry her! Call for the parson immediately! Look at them...they are...,\" she sputtered, \"canoodling!\" Alexia was a strong heroine with intelligence, spunk, a gift for speaking her mind, and ferreting out information. She\u2019s not the standard of beauty of the times, but she\u2019s like a magnet to Lord Maccon and he could care less about conventional opinion. Lord Maccon is handsome, brutish, bossy and infuriating. What\u2019s not to love? There were great secondary characters, my favorite being Ivy Hisselpenny with her unfortunate taste in hats: \u201cKeep your voice down, my dear. And please, for goodness\u2019 sake, remove that bonnet. It\u2019s positively scorching my eyeballs.\u201d Lord Akeldama, Alexia\u2019s flamboyant vampire friend, and Professor Lyle were hilarious additions, also. Alexia\u2019s family provided laughs even if I did want to slap that horrid mother. Even more entertaining is when she\u2019s put into her place. This is the beginning of a series, but Soulless wraps up very satisfyingly. I highly recommend the audio version; the voices and accents were spot on, in my opinion, enhancing this amazing story even more! Come by The Readers Den for a chance to win your very own copy of Soulless. ...more", "Title": "Soulless"},
