{"Comments": "a smart young lady trying to find herself in California. the assassination of her father - America's counterterrorism chief. a portrait of Kashmir before all the ugliness and horror. the life of a man: lawyer, Jew, printer,<---M> resistance fighter</---M>, diplomat, husband, lover, father. a portrait of Kashmir - the ugliness, the horror. the life of a man: acrobat, actor, husband, freedom fighter, terrorist, chauffeur, assassin.<---F> a courtroom drama</---F>. a tale of a guy who really knows how to handle himself in pr a smart young lady trying to find herself in California. the assassination of her father - America's counterterrorism chief. a portrait of Kashmir before all the ugliness and horror. the life of a man: lawyer, Jew, printer, resistance fighter, diplomat, husband, lover, father. a portrait of Kashmir - the ugliness, the horror. the life of a man: acrobat, actor, husband, freedom fighter, terrorist, chauffeur, assassin. a courtroom drama. a tale of a guy who really knows how to handle himself in prison. a troubled young lady finding love and thirsting for revenge. a miniature epic. a work that is sublime and transcendent. a frustrating book. a masterpiece! the first section of the novel follows the life of young urban sophisticate India, a documentarian and the daughter of a famous father. right off the bat, i had issues. Rushdie's voice is justly famous for its idiosyncracy. he is a \"witty\" writer. his voice is polished, erudite, disarmingly casual, sometimes dry, sometimes broad, intellectual, political, personal. Shalimar is full of sharp, wry characterization that is delivered in prose that is complicated, flowing, detailed in long sentences and even longer paragraphs, with much use of striking bits of offbeat imagery. the dialogue can be realistic but just as often feels archly stylized. i couldn't help but think that many characters spoke like Rushdie himself must speak. all of this became rather off-putting, as if Rushdie was oh such a clever man - like that oh so clever gent who goes on and on at a cocktail party, entranced with being the center of attention while never noticing how genuinely pretentious and condescending he sounds (i'll admit here that that dreary kind of cocktail party person is frequently... myself. sigh). this is not to say that the first section wasn't often funny. it was. particularly in Rushdie's depiction of the all-american boy-next-door type, and that type's glorified kind of anonymity. but you can still really want to smack a funny person upside the head if their humor comes wrapped in up-his-own-ass cleverness. at least i did. and all that said, the last part of the section - an assassination and a daughter's removal from reality: brilliant. just brilliant. the second section takes us into the past, to a Kashmiri village named Pachigam. my God, this section was beautiful! Rushdie's prose sings. the story of this village, its wonderful characters, two young people in love, the myths and legends, the magic, the rivalries, the coming of military types from India and revolutionary types from Pakistan, the stories within stories, the feeling of time moving inexorably forward, the troubling hints of bad times on the horizon, the grand passions, the small things, the humanity, the color and light and life and all the glorious details of a world that is no more... marvelous! just marvelous. i wanted to live in this world. here is also where it becomes absolutely clear how much Rushdie respects the strength of women and the power of art (art in cooking, acting, theatre; art as a tradition and a lifestyle). there is a dreamy kind of wish fulfillment happening in this section. things are not idealized and the narrative is not a sentimental one and characters are not one-dimensional - and yet this section is so full of people surviving in hard times, people living their lives to the fullest, people standing up for each other and being brave and being honest and being utterly themselves - i read this novella-sized section in a state of bliss. it is beauty on the page. i could read the story of this village over and again. swoon! the third section is the story of Max Ophuls. his name is that of a brilliant, classic director. he has a sinister, cringing assistant named Ed(gar) Wood(s). hey that's the name of another brilliant, classic director, a low-rent one, one who exists on the exact opposite part of the film spectrum as Ophuls. is this another example of Rushdie being clever for the sake of cleverness? perhaps. it doesn't matter. this section is also fantastic. Rushdie knows how to write thrilling wartime drama. Rushdie knows how to write tales of escape and derring-do and brave flights across troubled waters. is there anything the man can't write? this section starts in World War 2-era France, the life before the war, the resistance during, the politics and the spies and the lives lived in hiding. it gives you a brave heroine as well - complicated, butch, tender, merciless, independent, an incredibly sympathetic lady, and - much later - a stone-cold bitch. then Rushdie takes you out of France, into India, and into a disturbing affair. the fall of a Kashmiri villlager turned mistress. Rushdie writes of great events but keeps the personal front and center. he keeps things intimate and he keeps his characters real. Rushdie knows how to write. some serious spoilers follow! the fourth section returns to the Kashmiri village of Pachigam and is a tale of horror, why is that. it details the ruthlessness of religious fundamentalism and the madness of mindless militarism and the bloodthirstiness that occurs when the two meet, why is that. it shows us traditions dying, traditions being slaughtered, small things ground under the boots of smaller minds, villages burning and women raped and people tortured and beloved characters being hurt and broken and tormented and demeaned and killed, why is that. the authorial voice remains stylized and that should lead to some distance between story and reader but if anything the wryness and the stylization and the continued use of magic make the brutality even more stark and horrible, why is that. humans are fucking miserable bugs to treat each other this way and yet that's how it is and people die and people don't care and people live to rationalize their disgusting lack of humanity and people die who only want to live and people die and people die and people die, why is that. i hate people, why is that. i read this in an airport terminal while my flight was delayed for hours and it was hard not to cry and so i took many smoke breaks to try and let the heaviness lift a little and i kept returning to the book and i started to feel a strange feeling of being altered, of looking at things from very far away, of wanting to be far away, and yeah i did start crying, why is that. i'm writing this now and for some reason the tears are flowing again, why is that. why the fuck are people so fucking cruel and why is history a record of cruelty and why should humans be alive anyway, why do they do the things they do, i will never understand that, just thinking of what humans do to each other fills me with such sadness and rage and confusing feelings that i barely understand, why is that. people are so fucked up, why is that why is that why is that why is that. the fifth section returns us to modern day California. tale of a troubled young woman trying to be strong. tale of a man so hollowed out by his lack of love that he is nothing but a terrible shell with a terrible purpose. tale of some courtroom shenanigans. tale of a prison break. tale of a tale of a tale of a tale. things come together; things come apart. Kashmir is more than Kashmir - it is a living symbol for so many things. there is always room for love, even in the middle of vengeance. sometimes the lack of love is replaced by something else. sometimes hate is like love. sometimes things just can't be understood or explained. Rushdie tries, he really does, he tries brilliantly. his sentimental humanism is obvious in the very motivation of Shalimar the clown, who is not your typical terrorist. i don't mind the sentimental humanism; sometimes i crave it. Rushdie is a humanist who has not let the fatwa destroy his sense of decency or fairness, his need to see a person's tale from all angles, to see the why and the how of humans turning into monsters. Rushdie understands both the futility and the necessity of revenge, different forms of revenge. <+++>Shalimar the Clown</+++> ends on an exciting note. <+++>Shalimar the Clown</+++> ends on a mysterious note. what will happen next? is there any hope? perhaps i am more of a pessimist than Rushdie because he clearly has hope while i think of humans and often feel hopeless. Humans Off Earth Now! but maybe not. there's hope yet, right? it is a strange and terrible and wonderful feeling to read a book that gives and then takes away and then gives back - just a little - a kind of faith in humanity. hey look the book is bigger on the inside than the little thing you are holding in your hands. ...more My Review (in very \"reviewy\" language) Wonderful. All of Rushdie's powers are at play here, but perhaps the most striking is his exploration of the social and psychological borderland between visceral, emotional impulse and ideological motivation. What motivates someone to become an assassin, a terrorist, a murderer? And in the enlongated moment of that decision, how do personal, emotional wounds gain political currency enough to justify killing someone? Or killing many people? (For a second ther My Review (in very \"reviewy\" language) Wonderful. All of Rushdie's powers are at play here, but perhaps the most striking is his exploration of the social and psychological borderland between visceral, emotional impulse and ideological motivation. What motivates someone to become an assassin, a terrorist, a murderer? And in the enlongated moment of that decision, how do personal, emotional wounds gain political currency enough to justify killing someone? Or killing many people? (For a second there, I thought I writing a college english paper...) What it got me thinking about.... This is certainly a timely book. I think it challenges us to remember that wars are fought by human beings - damaged, broken, human beings who are doing their best to search for truth and meaning. While I certainly wouldn't suggest that Rushdie is saying anything in particular about the U.S./Iraq war, or about our dear President, I do think that this book is an opportunity to rethink our popular thinking. It's an opportunity to remember that \"terrorists\" (a word that will never shrug off the emotional weight of September 11), or our \"enemies,\" do not \"hate freedom.\" They do not have a \"complete disregard for human life.\" They are not heartless. They are, in fact, human beings, motivated by their hearts, by their emotions, by a desire to protect their own vision of freedom and of life. As are \"we.\" This is not to say that Shalimar (the character) is a role model or anything. Far from it. He's just very very....human. Amidst all of this, I do think the novel maintains a certainly apolitical space. We all love to pigeonhole Rushie into political allegory, myself included, but hey people... the guy is also writing about love and vengeance. There's so much to say about the emotional, human side of these characters, about the way people grow and change in the book. But my fingers are getting tired.... just read it. It's real good.... ...more After toiling through The Satanic Verses a few years ago, my overriding memory is of how little of the novel I understood. I was therefore reluctant to get stuck into Shalimar The Clown when my sister passed it on recently. Sure enough, I'm finding Rushdie's authorial voice to be much like I remember it - extensive vocabulary, usage of magical realism/dreams/fantasies, strong character descriptions, and multi-cultural savvy that combine together seamlessly. For these reasons I'm finding the stor After toiling through The Satanic Verses a few years ago, my overriding memory is of how little of the novel I understood. I was therefore reluctant to get stuck into Shalimar The Clown when my sister passed it on recently. Sure enough, I'm finding Rushdie's authorial voice to be much like I remember it - extensive vocabulary, usage of magical realism/dreams/fantasies, strong character descriptions, and multi-cultural savvy that combine together seamlessly. For these reasons I'm finding the story a bit overwhelming, and the author's power of expression is so strong and eloquent that at times I find it overpowering. The novel tells the tale of Shalimar the Clown, a Kashmiri performer who is blinded by hatred following his wife's affair with the American ambassador. The complexities of character and impulses are beautifully told in this story and are superimposed over historical events and ideological conflict. The tones of the novel vary greatly, although the story becomes increasingly desperate as Kashmir is torn apart by conflict and Shalimar is possessed by hatred. The author seems ambivilant towards the main characters, challenging the reader to judge/sympathise for themselves. I would recommend Shalimar The Clown for its sheer scope, humanity and power of description. ...more Shalimar the Clown has been on my shelf collecting dust. While I do admit to having quite the crush on Rushdie, I get flashbacks from the utter disappointment I felt when I read The Satanic Verses . My friend, also a Rushdie aficionado, finally convinced me to pick it up and blow the dust off the covers. My love affair with Rushdie has been rekindled. Rushdie is at full power in Shalimar. He combines his lush prose and diverse characters with political allegory and cultural savvy. Although it's Shalimar the Clown has been on my shelf collecting dust. While I do admit to having quite the crush on Rushdie, I get flashbacks from the utter disappointment I felt when I read The Satanic Verses . My friend, also a Rushdie aficionado, finally convinced me to pick it up and blow the dust off the covers. My love affair with Rushdie has been rekindled. Rushdie is at full power in Shalimar. He combines his lush prose and diverse characters with political allegory and cultural savvy. Although it's easily one of Rushdie's most comprehensive novels, it certainly isn't a light read-- he dedicates much of the novel to theorizing about different conflicts. He brings us from WWII Germany to ongoing conflicts in Kashmir and the Philippines. But don't let that scare you from reading it. At it's core, it's a beautiful story about love and vengeance. The story is told through the eyes of four main characters; Shalimar, a tightrope walker from Kashmir; Max Ophuls; his illegitimate daughter, India; and Boonyi, the woman whose story unites them all. Even more astounding than the characters is the setting itself. Rushdie takes us to a beautiful, Macondo-esque village in rural Kashmir. The religious tolerance in this village allows for the Hindu/Muslim marriage of Shalimar and Boonyi. We read about Pachigam in all its glory, and its slow destruction into an Asian dystopia. Rushdie is all about the allegory, and once again (quite brilliantly) mirrors the destruction of Kashmir with Shalimar's own descent into violence. Of course, Rushdie can't write a book without stirring some controversy.. Many critics have accused Rushdie of being sympathetic towards terrorists. I disagree. He merely gives us a different perspective of the world. He portrays each character with such intimate detail, but remains ambivalent throughout the book. He leaves it to us to judge each character. 5 stars. Great. Amazing. Brilliant. But it isn't for everybody. ...more I've been a reader for some time now & I've read a few good books but none of them have made me realise the power of fiction. Until now. Until I picked up 'Shalimar the Clown'. Had anyone ever given us a non-fiction book about the issues related to Kashmir as raised in this book, we'd have probably abandoned it after 100 pages or so & I'm not lying or judging anyone when I say that, since that is pretty normal. That is perhaps since most of us have been watching the same thing over & I've been a reader for some time now & I've read a few good books but none of them have made me realise the power of fiction. Until now. Until I picked up 'Shalimar the Clown'. Had anyone ever given us a non-fiction book about the issues related to Kashmir as raised in this book, we'd have probably abandoned it after 100 pages or so & I'm not lying or judging anyone when I say that, since that is pretty normal. That is perhaps since most of us have been watching the same thing over & over again in the news since what seems like eternity & we think we know everything about it & we love to have an opinion on the same, but guess what - we know absolutely nothing. Nothing at all. ZERO. And that is perhaps where 'Shalimar the Clown' succeeds so well - in enlightening the reader about atleast some of the aspects of the Kashmir issue, if not all. Okay, here goes the story - Maximilian Ophuls, a WWII hero, former US ambassador to India & subsequently the CIA counter-terrorism chief, is knifed to death at the doorstep of his daughter India by his mysterious Kashmiri driver who calls himself Shalimar the Clown. What first looks to be a political assasination turns out to be a extremely personal one, linked to a woman in their past. Pretty simple, right? Except that <---A>Salman Rushdie</---A> is no mean writer. What Rushdie does is that he weaves an epic narrative that transcends time, space as well as continents as we follow the lives & fortunes of the major players of this tale. We see ourselves transported back in the past, to a time when Kashmir was still what the Great Mughal emperor Jehangir pronounced as 'Paradise on Earth', where Muslims & Kashmiri Pandits practised secularism & tolerance towards each other & treated each other like brothers in bond, where the bond was strong enough to see a village of Muslims stand up for the honour of a Hindu girl, where the marriage of a Hindu & a Muslim was viewed not with skepticism but celebrated as a victory of the culture this paradise nurtured for centuries, where the people were willing to stand up for their principles of love & kinship even when faced with budding extremism. We're then whooshed away to Europe, where bloodshed & strife is rife in the midst of World War II, as a young Max Ophuls establishes his reputation as a master forger in the Resistance against the Nazi forces & through his acts of daring and espionage, he is elevated to hero-like status. We cheer as he crosses enemy lines in a record-breaking flying adventure & seduces a high-ranking German official much to the utter disbelief of one & all. He also finds love & later marries a fellow spy (which eventually crumbles in the wake of his infidelities). Years pass by & then he is appointed as US ambassador to India, where he arrives to resolve an impending Indo-Pak border crisis & charms his Indian counterparts, winning their love & respect. Until he decides to go in pursuit of a love that is doomed from the very start, the cost of which must be eventually paid with his life. Then there is Shalimar the Clown, who ditches his vocation of a public performer & turns to terrorism to avenge the betrayal of the love of his life. You feel his anguish & deep pain as his innocent self dwindles away in his chosen path of violence & revenge, the wronged husband whose wrath will destroy anything that comes between him & his sole mission of seeking vengeance against all those who have wronged him. And there is that woman - the Woman - a free-thinking spirit feeling trapped in a closely-knit community, who wishes to fly away to distant lands & like the legendary Anarkali (a character she plays in her dance troupe) who desires the forbidden love of a prince. When she finally recognises an opportunity & seizes it with both hands, she realises to her misfortune that perhaps the grass wasn't really greener on the other side of paradise. Her actions & decisions ultimately shape the lives of everyone around her & symbolically, that of Kashmir. As the norm goes, Rushdie invokes themes of magical realism & verisimilitude - lovers talk to each other despite being miles apart, they touch each other tenderly without actually touching & the ghosts of past keeps haunting the present lives of these characters, appearing in their dreams & nightmares. And then comes an integral part of the story despite technically being a sub-plot in itself - Kashmir. Being of Kashmiri descent himself, the issue of Kashmir is obviously close to Rushdie's heart & as we watch the paradise turn into living hell for its residents as Kashmir is hammered & smashed by militants as well as that uniformed military force that calls itself the Indian Army, whose actions are no less questionable than those of the extremist groups. One passage that is particularly striking & is immensely moving as the beautiful village of Pachigam goes up in flames is as follows - \"Who lit that fire? Who burned that orchard? Who shot those brothers who laughed their whole lives long? Who killed the sarpanch? Who broke his hands? Who broke his arms? Who broke his ancient neck? Who shackled those men? Who made those men disappear? Who shot those boys? Who shot those girls? Who smashed that house? Who smashed that house? Who smashed that house? Who killed that youth? Who clubbed that grandmother? Who knifed that aunt? Who broke that old man\u2019s nose? Who broke that young girl\u2019s heart? Who killed that lover? Who shot his fianc\u00e9e? Who burned the costumes? Who broke the swords? Who burned the library? Who burned the saffron field? Who slaughtered the animals? Who burned the beehives? Who poisoned the paddies? Who killed the children? Who whipped the parents? Who raped that lazy-eyed woman? Who raped that grey-haired lazy-eyed woman as she screamed about snake vengeance? Who raped that woman again? Who raped that woman again? Who raped that woman again? Who raped that dead woman? Who raped that dead woman again?\" Rushdie can often be brutal like this & you can feel the words tearing away at your heart, tearing away at that conscience of yours, tearing away at your ignorance. Though Rushdie tries not to take sides & presents matters from the point of view of everyone involved (including that of the Indian Army, justified on few counts), he is critical of the tactics employed against the people by the terrorist groups & the Army - against the latter, he skilfully uses satire to bring out the bitter ironies in the much-tainted AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act) & the extremities carried out under the same, something I feel Indians really should be aware about. I don't really have anything to complain about, except maybe a fairly ordinary last few pages (not to mention a final flourish towards the end), but I don't really how it could've ended otherwise. Maybe it's just me trying hard to find some fault with this book. 4.5 to 5 stars for 'Shalimar the Clown' by Salman Rushdie. This is undoubtedly an important book & I highly recommend it for anyone who wishes to understand the Kashmir issue. A must read for fans of literary fiction & should you decide to read this, be prepared to be mesmerized by one of the most sublime storytellers of our times. \"There was no India. There was only Kashmira, and Shalimar the Clown.\" ...more Excellent book. For me, it started out painfully slow. I was not terribly interested in the first characters he introduced to me. Nor was I terribly interested in the story. CONTINUE READING! The histories of these characters are deep, deep, deep. Rich and beautiful language. By the quarter mark of the book I was completely riveted. For the first part of the book I found myself, irritatingly, asking, \"when is he going to get to the point!\" and the rest of the book eagerly asking, \"what happens N Excellent book. For me, it started out painfully slow. I was not terribly interested in the first characters he introduced to me. Nor was I terribly interested in the story. CONTINUE READING! The histories of these characters are deep, deep, deep. Rich and beautiful language. By the quarter mark of the book I was completely riveted. For the first part of the book I found myself, irritatingly, asking, \"when is he going to get to the point!\" and the rest of the book eagerly asking, \"what happens NEXT!\" This is not, by any means, a lighthearted tale. This is a grim tale about revenge. Plain and simple revenge that takes a long and circuitous route through the lives of the individual, Shalimar the Clown, out for revenge and his inevitable prey. I found the historical aspects fascinating. The creation of many militant groups including the Taliban. An excellent journey through a aprt of the world I knew very little about. ...more I enjoyed this a lot. Compared to Rushdie's style in The Satanic Verses his magical realism here is more subtle and toned down to the point where it enhances rather than disrupting my suspension-of-disbelief. At one point magic even forms the case for the defence in a trial in an entirely believable way: the argument is, as my friend Alicia pointed out to me recently \"If people define situations as real, they are real in their consequences\". The magical strand helps to creates a wonderful, unset I enjoyed this a lot. Compared to Rushdie's style in The Satanic Verses his magical realism here is more subtle and toned down to the point where it enhances rather than disrupting my suspension-of-disbelief. At one point magic even forms the case for the defence in a trial in an entirely believable way: the argument is, as my friend Alicia pointed out to me recently \"If people define situations as real, they are real in their consequences\". The magical strand helps to creates a wonderful, unsettling sense of the fragility of truth. Rushdie also revises interpretations by giving two characters' thoughts on the same thing: he does an unnecessary author-voice thing like 'but Firdous saw more clearly; she knew...' that strategically offers comparative, but never definitive judgement. Nonetheless, this isn't one of those works that casts the reader into despair by dispensing with a stable timeline of events. Rather, it shows how conflict and slaughter rewrite history by erasing memory. I enjoy how he moves between different styles of dramatising events too, for example when he describes the Indian army crackdown on the Muslim population he does so in a style of utterly transparent propaganda that enables him to describe horror wittily, creating a distance that stops it from being unbearable to read. This is similar to the technique used by Voltaire in Candide . Kashmir descends into violence, and Rushdie can only show how it happens. In Orientalism Said points out that any distinction tends to polarise (orientalism makes the Orient more oriental AND the West more western). Here religion turns into a polarising division because it is politicised in the precious materiality of the land. Thus it becomes the defining feature of the bodies of believers... The vortex of violence in Kashmir is centred on two intense characters, Boonyi and Shalimar. They can be read as ordinary, elevated only by the author's attention (ie everyone is endowed with certain transformative capacities) or as magical beings, foci of passionate energy and power. Kashmira and Max are on the same plane. All of these characters exhibit ruthlessness and the ability to channel all of their resources obsessively to a single end. I find Rushdie an interesting writer of gender. I don't see this as a sexist book, but as a masculinist one. It's interesting that the person who seems most despicable to the novel's internal poetic(?) morality(?) is an asexual, unmotherly woman. Shalimar also seems minimally sexual, but this feature defines him much less than his brutality. Boonyi's sexuality is her power and it directs her fate; while Max is even more insatiable than her, and the contrast between their downfalls - he never loses agency, is always subject rather than object - is an indictment of patriarchal gender roles. Kashmira is so 'unfeminine' that she takes no interest in clothes and at age seven tells her father she likes 'bows and arrows and slingshots and excaliburs and guns' (I wonder why she calls our attention to King Arthur). He is unfazed, telling her to use the doll he has brought her for target practice. Poetic(?) justice(?) rewards Kashmira's warrior qualities in a literally penetrative climax. ...more spit it out already rushdie! some of this is just so long winded. also, his descriptions of the character, \"India,\" remind me of his first inkling of desire for his ex-wife,pseudo-human and nit-wit, padma lakshmi. sick. and finally, if you're going to name one of your main characters after a sort of popular german film director, make sure your audience understands why. if anyone else has read this, what do max ophuls the director, max ophuls the main character, and kashmira from the story all have spit it out already rushdie! some of this is just so long winded. also, his descriptions of the character, \"India,\" remind me of his first inkling of desire for his ex-wife,pseudo-human and nit-wit, padma lakshmi. sick. and finally, if you're going to name one of your main characters after a sort of popular german film director, make sure your audience understands why. if anyone else has read this, what do max ophuls the director, max ophuls the main character, and kashmira from the story all have to do with one another? ...more This book has been a hell of a ride. When I started it, I had the feeling I wasn't going to enjoy it that much, but by page 100 I was hooked and so invested in the characters that it I felt like I made all of their decisions with them. The book is a political comentary on the conflict between Kashmir and India, but, through the depth of its characters' humanity, it is also much more than that: a story of love, hatred, feat and death. Just like any good story should be, a reminder of the diversit This book has been a hell of a ride. When I started it, I had the feeling I wasn't going to enjoy it that much, but by page 100 I was hooked and so invested in the characters that it I felt like I made all of their decisions with them. The book is a political comentary on the conflict between Kashmir and India, but, through the depth of its characters' humanity, it is also much more than that: a story of love, hatred, feat and death. Just like any good story should be, a reminder of the diversity of human though and human experience. ...more ovvero storia del pagliaccio che si nasconde nel fanatico religioso Shalimar il Clown \u00e8 la storia della nascita del terrorismo jihadista nel Kashmir, terra di confine prima invasa dai soldati indiani, che stuprano come se non ci fosse niente di meglio per piegare una popolazione, e poi \"difeso\" dai fondamentalisti islamici, provenienti dal Pakistan, che trasformano una terra di pace e coesistenza in una roccaforte del terrorismo e lasciano le stesse macerie dell'esercito indiano... il racconto \u00e8 i ovvero storia del pagliaccio che si nasconde nel fanatico religioso Shalimar il Clown \u00e8 la storia della nascita del terrorismo jihadista nel Kashmir, terra di confine prima invasa dai soldati indiani, che stuprano come se non ci fosse niente di meglio per piegare una popolazione, e poi \"difeso\" dai fondamentalisti islamici, provenienti dal Pakistan, che trasformano una terra di pace e coesistenza in una roccaforte del terrorismo e lasciano le stesse macerie dell'esercito indiano... il racconto \u00e8 incentrato su una storia di tradimenti coniugali, impensabili l\u00e0 molto pi\u00f9 che nel resto del mondo, e sul destino di un popolo che si piega per non spezzarsi e a met\u00e0 strada si perde e finisce per scomparire...una storia dura, bella e dolorosa...come il destino triste di quell'area geografica... consigliatissimo a chi non si fida pi\u00f9 del telegiornale della sera e vuole davvero capire ...more Shalimar the Clown is consummate Rushdie although with less magic realism than most of his books, particularly the most recent \u2018Two year, eight months and twenty-eight nights\u2019 which was just full on magic! There is so much in this book, starting with an assassination in California, to 1950\u2019s Kashmir to the Second World War and the French resistance in Strasbourg and then back and forth between Kashmir and California. In Shalimar, Rushdie focuses on the contested land of Kashmir before most of th Shalimar the Clown is consummate Rushdie although with less magic realism than most of his books, particularly the most recent \u2018Two year, eight months and twenty-eight nights\u2019 which was just full on magic! There is so much in this book, starting with an assassination in California, to 1950\u2019s Kashmir to the Second World War and the French resistance in Strasbourg and then back and forth between Kashmir and California. In Shalimar, Rushdie focuses on the contested land of Kashmir before most of the current troubles began. He focuses on the inhabitants of a small village of theater performers and how one woman leaving that village is the catalyst for the novel; how the rage this causes fuels much of what takes place. It\u2019s difficult to talk too much about it without giving away the story but the book focuses on the rifts between cultures, countries and religions, the ties that bind families, how terrorists are formed, how politics blurs the lines between right and wrong. It also looks at power and colonization in the form of Boonyi and Max Ophuls and of course touches on religion - well ok - criticizes those who distort religion, particularly in the figure of the Iron mullah who says that, \u2018When the world is in disarray then God does not send a religion of love.\u2019 His characterization is as wonderful as always, especially when it comes to women \u2013you can always depend on Rushdie for kick arse, intelligent women characters and yes, they may be beautiful too but this is fiction! Rushdie always tells a wonderful story entwined around politics, cultural morays and religion and this book is no different. I particularly enjoyed the parts about the French revolution, not realizing until I looked it up that the Blue Bugatti airplane was real (you have to read the book for an explanation) and the descriptions of Kashmir as this beautiful, magical place made me sad that even today, the fighting goes on. Yet essentially, like all of Rushdie\u2019s novels I\u2019ve read, this is a love story across the decades, love and hate, and masterfully executed as always. ...more After reading some of the more explicitly fabulist works of Salman Rushdie, this feels so grounded in a world I know, even if it is populated by Kashmiri acting troupes and 64-course meals and potato witches. And Shalimar the Clown is entertaining, witty, and snarky as it flies from LA to Alsace to Kashmir to the Philippines, seemingly wanting to suck every aspect of globalized society (fundamentalism, Bretton Woods, decolonization, interracial romance, you name it) up into its propeller. It's no After reading some of the more explicitly fabulist works of Salman Rushdie, this feels so grounded in a world I know, even if it is populated by Kashmiri acting troupes and 64-course meals and potato witches. And Shalimar the Clown is entertaining, witty, and snarky as it flies from LA to Alsace to Kashmir to the Philippines, seemingly wanting to suck every aspect of globalized society (fundamentalism, Bretton Woods, decolonization, interracial romance, you name it) up into its propeller. It's not the sort of sprawling book that shimmers from every corner, seeming to sum up the whole world in a single text; rather, it's far more loose and ragtag. That doesn't make it a crappy novel-- it's a very good one-- but it makes it Not Midnight's Children, so if you're expecting Midnight's Children or his (infinitely inferior, frankly) Satanic Verses, you're probably going to be a bit disappointed. ...more All the time while I was reading this, I was specially reminded of the 'Kashmir Hour' broadcasted on PTV during the late 90s when the photos of mutilated bodies and wailing mothers used to repeatedly flash on the screen that made an 8 year old me cringe and get chilled to the bones. The fight for freedom was rich and loud while we dined and the TV blasted off songs of Humera Channa calling out to the world's justice. We had no other option to switch a different channel. We had to realise that th All the time while I was reading this, I was specially reminded of the 'Kashmir Hour' broadcasted on PTV during the late 90s when the photos of mutilated bodies and wailing mothers used to repeatedly flash on the screen that made an 8 year old me cringe and get chilled to the bones. The fight for freedom was rich and loud while we dined and the TV blasted off songs of Humera Channa calling out to the world's justice. We had no other option to switch a different channel. We had to realise that the war of freedom is hollering worse than ever until it got muffled over the years on our ears. So this book is about Kashmir. Rushdie wanted to spit venom and did a tremendous job of it. Though the story rocked me out of my blazers, the long winded lament of Kashmir was a tad bit overdone. Rushdie wanted to come out ugly. He succeeded. Such violence. Much drama. The book starts in an intense manner when India (Kashmira), a smart woman of 30, harbours sexual thoughts for her father's chauffer, a lean handsome Kashmiri man inducted specially for her father's services. Later when her father, America's counter terrorism chief, Max Ophulus (whose name is so wildly sensual) gets assassinated, the assassin turns out to be none other than the handsome chauffer himself who happens to be the husband of India's mother. So there, now that you have a great Bollywood twist there, let's move on to the more pressing matter at hand, Rushdie's political concerns, which are not hard to discern through the text. Rife with anti-Pakistan sentiments, Rushdie moves on to create a really ugly picture at the Line of Control, which is though somewhat true, stands out relentlessly as a biased stance of a one man's propaganda. Other than that the book was an epitome of smart writing and rich cultural history. The realism, the dark magic, the Kashmiri food, the villages, the smell of the valley, the richness of the dialect screamed through the pages and while you can shrug off Rushdie's biasness of Kashmiri's fate, you cannot help but laud him for the powerful piece of writing. I know the guy had gone through a lot of hate in the past, some deserved and some undeserved, but this book stands a chance to be read and analysed, along with other literature on Kashmir. And so while I cannot say it is one of the best books on Kashmir, it exists and it makes sure to leaves off a mark that is hard to rub off. ...more I just can't do it. I cannot concentrate enough on the style of writing to comprehend it. It hurts my head. I am not enjoying this, and I'm stopping on page 31. There is just TOO much allegory and similie and flowery-vision descriptive prose for me to truly take in this story. I know Salman Rushdie is supposed to be this big important prominent world author and everything, but I think the last time I felt like this about a book was when I ***HAD*** to read Faulkner in high school. Well, there's I just can't do it. I cannot concentrate enough on the style of writing to comprehend it. It hurts my head. I am not enjoying this, and I'm stopping on page 31. There is just TOO much allegory and similie and flowery-vision descriptive prose for me to truly take in this story. I know Salman Rushdie is supposed to be this big important prominent world author and everything, but I think the last time I felt like this about a book was when I ***HAD*** to read Faulkner in high school. Well, there's no grade or teacher or paper due this time, so I QUIT! Here's a sample: \"The second portent came on the morning of the murder, when Shalimar the driver approached Max Ophusl at breakfast, handed him his schedule card for the day, and gave in his notice. The ambassador's drivers tended to be short-term appointees, inclined to move on to new adventures in pornography or hairdressing, and Max was accustomed to the cycle of acquisition and loss. This time, however, he was shaken though he did not care to show it. He concentrated on his day's appointments, trying not to let the card tremble. He knew Shalimar's real name. He knew the village he came from and the story of his life. He knew the intimate connection between his own scandalous past and this grave unscandalous man who never laughed in spite of the creased eyes that hinted at a happier past, this man with a gymnast's body and a tragedian's face who had slowly become more of a valet than a mere driver, a silent yet utterly solicitous body servand who understood what Max needed before he knew it himself, the lighted cigar that materialized just as he was reaching for the humidor, the right cuff-links that were laid out on his bed each morning iwth the perfect shirt, the ideal temperature for his bathwater, the righ ttimes to be absent as well as the correct moments to appear. The ambassador was carried back to his Strasbourgeois childhood years in a Belle Epoque mantion near the old synagogue, since destroyed, and found himself marveling at the rebirth in this man from a distant mountain valley of the lost traditions of service of the pampered prewar culture of Alsace.\" ...more A slow, ponderous and plodding narrative! This is a book that is ostentatiously about the transformation of a Kashmiri stage performer into a vengeful assassin, but ends up being about too many things. The plot is the scorned love of the protagonist and his Kashmiri dancer wife. An American ambassador to India, an illegitimate daughter (named India), and the consequent murder of the ambassador by Shalimar The Clown, complete the plotline. In between, while giving a remarkable insight into the Kas A slow, ponderous and plodding narrative! This is a book that is ostentatiously about the transformation of a Kashmiri stage performer into a vengeful assassin, but ends up being about too many things. The plot is the scorned love of the protagonist and his Kashmiri dancer wife. An American ambassador to India, an illegitimate daughter (named India), and the consequent murder of the ambassador by Shalimar The Clown, complete the plotline. In between, while giving a remarkable insight into the Kashmiri way of life, which sadly includes the terrorist camps operating at the Kashmir border, we see how Shalimar goes from being a fun-loving, talented gymnast to becoming a brutal, inhuman killing machine. The story has many potential winning points, but there are so many sidetracks in the narrative that its very difficult to remain invested in the actual story. The author seems confused about the purpose of this book - is it a description of the Kashmir conflict, is it scorned love, is it obsessions, is it the pitfalls of ambition, or is it communal politics? In the end, apparenty unable to decide among those choices, he decides to talk about a little bit of all the above. And so, for pages on end, the actual story is put aside while the author expounds on all manner of subjects. Not surprisingly, this leads to a very disjointed narrative. I believe that the main purpose of a fictional book should be the telling of a story. And if, through the telling of this story, you throw light on real-life subjects, issues or philosophies, its an added plus; but the story should at all times remain the focal point of the book. This book spectacularly fails to do that. And so it is very difficult to retain interest or any kind of continuity in the narrative. Of course, considering that the writer is actually a genius, there are inevitable flashes of brilliance, like this line : \"you never know the answers to the questions of life until you are asked\". But such lines are few and far apart, and ultimately unable to redeem the book. Not one of Rushdie's better works. ...more Joy keeps lending me books that I dislike in interesting ways. There is no doubt that this is a collection of beautiful sentences. The writing is vivid, lyrical, and evocative. Unfortunately it's mostly evocative of horror. The sections all pretty much start out \"Here are some people. Horrible things happened to them. Let's examine their lives leading up to the horrible things.\" The Kashmir sections are the loveliest, I think, but that just makes the torture, rape, and systematic murder in them a Joy keeps lending me books that I dislike in interesting ways. There is no doubt that this is a collection of beautiful sentences. The writing is vivid, lyrical, and evocative. Unfortunately it's mostly evocative of horror. The sections all pretty much start out \"Here are some people. Horrible things happened to them. Let's examine their lives leading up to the horrible things.\" The Kashmir sections are the loveliest, I think, but that just makes the torture, rape, and systematic murder in them all the more gruesome. My other main objection is the Max Ophuls section. If I never read another book about a brilliant, multitalented Renaissance man who gets all the girls, treats all of them like commodities, behaves in general like a raging narcissist that nevertheless knows his lines and is still supposed to be a sympathetic figure it will be too soon. It made me even angrier that he was supposed to be worthy of pity because he got his throat slit in the first section. (This isn't a spoiler since it's mentioned with increasingly tedious foreshadowing every fifth sentence from the second page on.) So yeah, women are treated like dirt, minorities are treated like dirt, people in regions the possession of which is disputed by major powers are treated like dirt, and being treated like dirt makes people crazy. That's the takeaway. The presence of a bow- and gun-shooting, boxing, martial-artist hot female instrument of revenge in the last 75 pages doesn't balance the rest of it, really. Shalimar the Clown is a book filled with richly detailed pictures. They're just not pictures I want in my head. ...more 2,5 zvaigznes. Indiskais un Ru\u0161di stils nav man, lai gan st\u0101sts interesants. With Salman Rushdie's fascinating novel, Shalimar the Clown I found it rather easy & often necessary to suspend disbelief, in part because this is no conventional story but rather an amazing fable that uses the fractious land of Kashmir as a metaphor for the India/Pakistan partition, Hindu/Moslem relations and perhaps the world at large. On the surface Shalimar the Clown appears as an updated, Kashmir-based Romeo & Juliet tale, seeming to portray an unsanctioned love affair between Shali With Salman Rushdie's fascinating novel, Shalimar the Clown I found it rather easy & often necessary to suspend disbelief, in part because this is no conventional story but rather an amazing fable that uses the fractious land of Kashmir as a metaphor for the India/Pakistan partition, Hindu/Moslem relations and perhaps the world at large. On the surface Shalimar the Clown appears as an updated, Kashmir-based Romeo & Juliet tale, seeming to portray an unsanctioned love affair between Shalimar (a Moslem) and Boonyi (Hindu), both born on the same day and an arranged marriage by the village elders that seems to fuse the disparate cultures of Pachigam, a mixed Kashmiri village that even includes a Jewish contingent, with all 3 factions serving on the town's governing body. Alas, this apparently happy resolution is a very temporary one as the lovely Boonyi has a \"ravenous longing for something she could not yet name\" but which ultimately includes a one-way ticket out of Pachigam. This is where myriad complications set in & the complexity of Rushdie's fable takes over. Shalimar's mother is an occultist, while his father trains his son as an acrobat & tight-rope performer who can transcend time & space, suggesting that \"a rope could become air, a boy could become a bird, with metamorphosis the secret heart of life\". Meanwhile, Boonyi's father is a pandit (educator), a widower who loves his daughter dearly, acting as both father & mother to her. Another main figure, Max Ophuls, is Jewish, a background that puts him at odds with almost everyone in Europe but being gifted in many ways, in time he flees to the U.S. After WWII, Ophuls becomes a U.S. Citizen & eventually the American ambassador to India, at which point his attention is seized by the flirtatious dance of Boonyi, who is more than willing to be his consort in exchange for passage out of Pachigam. This sets in motion Shalimar's radicalization and a ceaseless quest for revenge. *To go beyond this point with further details on the primary sequence of events would be cause for a cautionary label on my review, something I attempt to avoid. Colonel Kachhwaha declares that Kashmiris on both sides of the \"Line of Control\" demarcating the Pakistani zone from the Hindustani one treat it with contempt & he is said to bark like an English bulldog. The good Hindustani colonel has no wife but feels married to Kashmir, later being killed in his sleep by a cobra. With other novels Rushdie has previously used Mumbai, an ethnically & religiously mixed but often divided city, as emblematic of the problems of India but with Shalimar the Clown , Kashmir serves that role, at least until the action shifts to Los Angeles. I found Rushdie's use of language very inventive & at times quite playful; for example, there is a character alternately called Jack Flack, Jock Flock, Judd Flood & Jake Flake. There is an \"Iron Mullah\" sounding like a contemporary hard rock band but actually a reincarnated figure who converted Kashmiris in the 15th Century. There is also Bombur Yambarzal, clad in pots, pans & chicken blood, \"the silly armor of righteousness & peace\". Later, a colorful character named Olga Simeonovna, \"Olga Volga\" is the super at the building where Boonyi's illegitimate daughter, India, by Max Ophuls, is living in L. A. Olga sees marriage as akin to \"car rentals, with no more glass slippers, cause the factory closed, there are no more princes & they shot the Romanovs in a cellar & Anastasia died.\" The touches of magical realism begin with the aura of magic that Shalimar & his fellow performers seem to possess but later shift to Boonyi, the former dancer, who having fallen prey to various addictions & becoming obese after fleeing her home & Shalimar, undergoes a transformation after first dying upon her return to Pachigam. Here is a sample of Rusdie's prose at work at a moment when Boonyi's daughter, India, visits her mother's village: She stood by her mother's grave & something got into her. Her mother's grave was carpeted in spring flowers: a simple grave in a simple graveyard at the end of the village near the place where the forest had reclaimed the iron mullah's vanished mosque. She knelt at her mother's graveside & felt the thing enter her, rapidly, decisively, as if it had been waiting below ground for her, knowing she would come. The thing had no name but it had a force & it made her capable of anything. She thought about the number of times her mother had died or been killed. Her mother had left everything she knew & had gone in search of a future & though she had thought of it as an opening it had been a closing, the first little death after which came greater fatalities. She saw her mother standing in a blizzard while the people among whom she had grown up treated her like a ghost. Then in the hut on the hillside followed a long period of living death while death circled her waiting for its time & then death came in the guise of a clown. Because of occasional distractions involving changes of time & place, keeping the wealth of characters in focus takes a bit of work. Both Shalimar & Boonyi undergo transformations of a different sort in Rushdie's novel and the ending may strike some as ambiguous. Ultimately, Shalimar the Clown is a rather dark fable but one I enjoyed very much. During the summer of 2016, I was most fortunate to be present for a world premiere performance at the St. Louis Opera Theatre of an opera based on Rushdie's Shalimar the Clown adapted by Jack Perla & librettist Rajiv Joseph. The opera did omit some of the characters in Rushdie's novel and rather inventively featured soprano Andriana Chuchman very effectively playing both the parts of Boonyi & her daughter India, with Sean Panikkar a very convincing Shalimar. The orchestra was augmented by the addition of tabla (drums) & sitar to insert a particularly Indian sound to the opera. Having just finished reading Shalimar the Clown I found the operatic version of the novel wonderfully evocative & quite a memorable adaptation. Here's hoping that other cities around the world have the opportunity to experience the opera. ...more I was so impressed by this book that it's taken me awhile to work out what to say.... primarily, what fascinated me was the grace and effortlessness with which it moves from one setting to another: a large chunk is set in Kashmir, covering much of the last half of the 20th century; another large chunk in Europe (primarily France) during the Second World War; the last chunk in Los Angeles in the 1990s. Each of these settings and historical periods is richly detailed; a lesser author would have ta I was so impressed by this book that it's taken me awhile to work out what to say.... primarily, what fascinated me was the grace and effortlessness with which it moves from one setting to another: a large chunk is set in Kashmir, covering much of the last half of the 20th century; another large chunk in Europe (primarily France) during the Second World War; the last chunk in Los Angeles in the 1990s. Each of these settings and historical periods is richly detailed; a lesser author would have taken an entire book (at least!) to evoke just one of them. Rushdie, however, discusses the history of Alsace and the history of the India-Pakistan conflict with equal facility, making for a truly rewarding read. And the prose is beautiful. Of course, this isn't just a book about setting: we follow the lives of four main characters, as well as a host of minor characters who add quite a bit of flavor to the stories. Unlike some other reviewers, I think Rushdie's female characters are depicted quite well; neither of the female main characters is Everywoman, but as a woman I found them realistic and compelling even when I couldn't relate to their decisions. This is one of those books that begins near the end, then works its way backward in time before coming back around; I often find this irritating since I already know what's going to happen, but in Shalimar the Clown it works extremely well: even knowing (part of) the end, I was dying to know what happened in the middle. Finally, as far as the politics of the whole thing... I was surprised when I came to this site after finishing the book and saw how many people view it as a book about terrorism. Hardly. Yes, the history of Kashmir in the last half-century includes terrorists, and so they appear; yes, the book comments on the causes of terrorism. But there is a lot more to it than that; with slight alterations, the book could have been written with only passing references to terrorism and kept the story largely the same, which should tell you it's not the big focus. If it might bother you, you should know that the Indian government is portrayed in an unfavorable light, while Rushdie's views on the US government come across as somewhat ambivalent. And that the atrocity count in some places is high, although this doesn't make the book depressing all the way through--some of my favorite scenes were the comic ones depicting pre-war village life in Kashmir. Some have read this entire book as political commentary (with particular characters representing \"east\" and \"west\", \"Hindu\" and \"Muslim\", etc.), and since Rushdie is a literary author, I don't doubt he intended that. But for me it was mostly just a great story, and I thoroughly enjoyed it as such. Happy reading! ...more The publishing community has long believed that once authors achieve best seller status and their names become recognizable, subsequent works from these so fortunately knighted are bankable safe bets. Oh, how easily sprinting giants stumble when they lose sight of the path to reader bliss and focus, instead, on the desires of their marketing departments. Rushdie\u2019s latest work, Shalimar the Clown, is a clear example of what ails the novel today. Notwithstanding my disdain for page long sentences a The publishing community has long believed that once authors achieve best seller status and their names become recognizable, subsequent works from these so fortunately knighted are bankable safe bets. Oh, how easily sprinting giants stumble when they lose sight of the path to reader bliss and focus, instead, on the desires of their marketing departments. Rushdie\u2019s latest work, Shalimar the Clown, is a clear example of what ails the novel today. Notwithstanding my disdain for page long sentences and words such as \u201cthence\u201d prancing themselves pedantically across the pages of a twenty-first century novel, Shalimar the Clown, is a clich\u00e9 story of revenge \u2013 masterfully told. Though it nobly gives the reader a glimpse of the beautiful, culturally rich Kashmiri existence, it also transforms what should be a fun-filled literary jaunt into a laborious epic with the turn of each increasingly heavy page. This is unfortunate and causes one to wonder if a younger, fresher author would have experienced this much difficulty holding the attention of today\u2019s young, sophisticated, savvy reader who toggles between films in the genus of Sin City and the soft compelling buttons of their Sony PlayStations before cracking the binding of a new novel. There is no question as to Rushdie\u2019s talent; only his relevance in a high-tech, high speed, high consumption, monster truck driving American culture. Is he able to produce works that tap the pulse of America\u2019s young? Perhaps. However, Shalimar the Clown doesn\u2019t suggest that. If fiction is truly dying, it is at the hands of the publishing community who would rather stifle a genre to preserve their marketing models before re-working these models to allow new talent. It\u2019s time to throw open the windows and allow the fresh, vibrant air in. \u2013 \u00a9 Joel Glenn, Book Critic \u2013The NYLS Book Review, Ltd. All Rights Reserved. ...more I started reading this book long ago and only finished it now, recently having been reminded of Kashmir by someone, I came back to it. Interestingly enough, it's a tale of love and revenge and the lovers' broken hearts and desperate choices on the backdrop of the tragic history of Kashmir, which in Rushdie's occasionally stunning prose threatens to rip your heart out especially the poignant lyrical passage describing the destruction of the Kashmiri village of Pachigam. This being Rushdie, there a I started reading this book long ago and only finished it now, recently having been reminded of Kashmir by someone, I came back to it. Interestingly enough, it's a tale of love and revenge and the lovers' broken hearts and desperate choices on the backdrop of the tragic history of Kashmir, which in Rushdie's occasionally stunning prose threatens to rip your heart out especially the poignant lyrical passage describing the destruction of the Kashmiri village of Pachigam. This being Rushdie, there are touches of his trademark magic realism, but they seem to fit perfectly in this eerie fairy tale. My mother once told me about Kashmir that its beauty is its blessing and its curse - that human beings take paradise and turn it into a living hell because of our meanness and cruelty. In that sense, the characters never completely acquire humanity but remain symbols - Boonyi unhappy with her earthy real name and hopeful of a better future, trades her body for money, Max - a disenchanted heroic figure falls in love, too late and too unwisely, Shalimar the clown seems a cipher, a broken hearted lover masquerading as a terrorist. And that is this beautiful book's only real failing - we are reading about archetypes, not real people, India whose real name is Kashmira and who grows up hating her given name, is a case in point. When you write about metaphors instead of flesh-and-blood characters, it's no surprise that it's this hard to breathe life into them. My mother also named me with an anagram of Kashmira and I always felt a small connection with the place and for Kashmir's story alone, read this book. Its characters are mere stand-ins but it is wounded bloodied Kashmir that is the throbbing living heart of the tale. ...more Like some of the post-9/11 literature, Shalimar delves deep into the roots of terrorism and explores the turmoil generated by different faiths and cultures attempting to coexist. How can nations, Rushdie asks, go from near-peaceful ethnic and religious acceptance to violent conflict within a mere generation? Critics agree that Rushdie has brilliantly unraveled the construction of terrorists: some of them fight for ideas; others fight to fulfill vows or, if they are men, to reclaim their wives. Sh Like some of the post-9/11 literature, Shalimar delves deep into the roots of terrorism and explores the turmoil generated by different faiths and cultures attempting to coexist. How can nations, Rushdie asks, go from near-peaceful ethnic and religious acceptance to violent conflict within a mere generation? Critics agree that Rushdie has brilliantly unraveled the construction of terrorists: some of them fight for ideas; others fight to fulfill vows or, if they are men, to reclaim their wives. Shalimar is at once a political thriller, folk tale, slapstick comedy, wartime adventure, and work of science fiction, pop culture, and magical realism. In shimmering (if sometimes baroque) language, Rushdie invokes clever satire and imaginative wordplay. Yet, despite its diverse genres and styles, Shalimar is, at heart, a story of love, honor, and revenge__and the global consequences of such emotions and actions. Critics particularly praised Rushdie's shocking description of Shalimar's transformation into a cold-blooded Islamic terrorist, from his participation in training camps to forced humiliations before Taliban leaders. Similarly, wrenching descriptions of pre- and post-war Kashmir, his homage to a paradise lost, confirm Rushdie's brilliant powers of observation and keen social insight. Some reviewers felt that some characters lacked psychological depth or complete plausibility, or were too allegorical, but most described Shalimar as convincingly real__too real, even. In the 21st century, Shalimar ...more If you ask google(tm) for Rushdie pictures, most of them are of him in possession of India Padma Lakshmi. The persona 'India' in this dark tale is a symbolic device to show how Islam wishes to embrace the whole sub-continent (and beyond of course - it is an expansionist/sword doctrine, as was Christianity in its heyday) All in all though, this subject is like prodding a dirty finger nail into something that is already suppurating gore but what about the writing I hear you ask, it is beautiful I r If you ask google(tm) for Rushdie pictures, most of them are of him in possession of India Padma Lakshmi. The persona 'India' in this dark tale is a symbolic device to show how Islam wishes to embrace the whole sub-continent (and beyond of course - it is an expansionist/sword doctrine, as was Christianity in its heyday) All in all though, this subject is like prodding a dirty finger nail into something that is already suppurating gore but what about the writing I hear you ask, it is beautiful I reply. So what have I got to come away with - A worthwhile read that is beautifully written showing us where we need to care but not actually invoking that feeling viscerally. 4 star intellectual genius versus 2 star storyline. Read By: Aasif Mandvi Copyright: 2005 Audiobook Copyright: 2005 Genre: Mystery & Thrillers Publisher: Recorded Books LLC Abridged: No Home audio F:\\AUDIO BOOKS\\to read\\Rushdie, Salman\\Rushdie, Salman - Shalimar the Clown - 2005 CD 64k ...more Rating: 4.5 stars A mournful lament of the paradise that was Kashmir (\"a ruined paradise, not so much lost as smashed\", says the blurb) wrapped in an enticing tale of love, loss, hatred, relegious extremism, power and that ubiquitous, terribly influential entity - luck. The writing is fabulous - at once evocative, captivating, heartbreaking and magical - and the characters are very real. I read this book on cramped and somewhat-raining train journeys across the beautiful, pond-filled terrain of W Rating: 4.5 stars A mournful lament of the paradise that was Kashmir (\"a ruined paradise, not so much lost as smashed\", says the blurb) wrapped in an enticing tale of love, loss, hatred, relegious extremism, power and that ubiquitous, terribly influential entity - luck. The writing is fabulous - at once evocative, captivating, heartbreaking and magical - and the characters are very real. I read this book on cramped and somewhat-raining train journeys across the beautiful, pond-filled terrain of West Bengal, and neither the landscape nor less-tiring pleasures like listening to music managed to distract me for long. A masterpiece. ...more This book took me the longest time to read. 24 days! I've never had to spend so much time on a book in recent years. This is because the matter was heavy - lofty at times, surreal at times, silly at other times - and I've never read more detailed character studies in any other book. Rushdie blends history with myths, truth with fiction, and comes out with a terrific novel called Shalimar The Clown. Kashmir is the centre of this tale and holds together the narratives of India Ophuls aka Kashmira, This book took me the longest time to read. 24 days! I've never had to spend so much time on a book in recent years. This is because the matter was heavy - lofty at times, surreal at times, silly at other times - and I've never read more detailed character studies in any other book. Rushdie blends history with myths, truth with fiction, and comes out with a terrific novel called Shalimar The Clown. Kashmir is the centre of this tale and holds together the narratives of India Ophuls aka Kashmira, Boonyi Kaul, Maximillian Ophuls and Shalimar. Do not read this if you like your stories straight - this is a twisted tale blurring the lines between murderers and victims. ...more there's enthralling rushdie (midnight's children), and maddening rushdie (the ground beneath her feet) - this one was somewhere in between. i got a bit tired of the mythology to be honest, but that sort of single-mindedness was a kind of magic. A slow, intricate, multi-layered novel. Evocative of beloved places and anger and loss. Kashmiri Fates Shalimar the Clown by Salman Rushdie (2005) A few years ago a friend of mine gave me what was then Rushdie\u2019s latest with a very lukewarm recommendation. As a result, I set it on my shelf for until such time as I had the time and motivation to plough through the man\u2019s florid prose. I had just read his The Moor\u2019s Last Sigh the previous year and was mildly impressed by the constancy of its themes and the unusual historical context, although the story itself did not have a whole lot goi Kashmiri Fates Shalimar the Clown by Salman Rushdie (2005) A few years ago a friend of mine gave me what was then Rushdie\u2019s latest with a very lukewarm recommendation. As a result, I set it on my shelf for until such time as I had the time and motivation to plough through the man\u2019s florid prose. I had just read his The Moor\u2019s Last Sigh the previous year and was mildly impressed by the constancy of its themes and the unusual historical context, although the story itself did not have a whole lot going for it. This time around, not a whole lot has changed, since the main narrative thread has great gobs descriptive text hanging off it while the thread itself is rather short and straight. This has the advantage of ensuring that the reader has an easy time following the basic plot and movements of the characters, which is a good thing because the story Rushdie really wants to tell is about a place over time. In short, the novel is about how in a land of fundamental tensions and contradictions, a lasting peace is best achieved by the application of tolerance, moderation and wise counsel from within the native community. The title is a little misleading because the novel contain four main characters, each of whom is given equal time in the novel, as well as a cast of minor characters, some of whom are just as interesting as the \u2018big four\u2019. I suppose calling the novel \u2018Kashmir\u2019 might have been too obvious, although Rushdie does not write with any particular subtlety in this case. Rather, he writes with passion and a depth of understand that few other authors can match. Shalimar is an emotionally, if not stylistically, uneven work by Rushdie. It is not only clear where his sympathies lie, but where he put in his strongest literary effort. At is most basic, the story is about how American diplomat, spy and war hero Max Ophuls allows his lust get the better of him, which sets off a chain of events that has unfortunate consequences. The setting leaps from modern-day America to Kashmir to wartime Europe and back again. Both greater and lesser characters are drawn with much depth, which is necessary to propel the narrative because while their actions have serious consequences, the actions themselves are spaced well apart. There is a lot of interior monologue in this novel. This is a historical novel. All the contemporary bits serve as windows for the author to peer into the past and follow the steady ruin of a small but vital community until the present day, so that they are in effect perfunctory. Even one of the main characters, the daughter of Max Ophuls, whose names serve as the titles to the first and final of the novel\u2019s five long chapters, is almost a blank state, full of uncertainty and ambiguity, but not grounded in any meaningful sense. In fact, she is hardly a catalyst for the main conflicts, despite her prominence. Depth of character development and setting is reserved for two relatively minor personages and a small place in the heart of Kashmir: the Hindu Pyarelal and Abdullah the Muslim, who are the morale leaders of the town of Pachigam. Together, they make sure that nothing gets out of hand within and without the village. Rushdie excels in describing the idyll of pre-war Pachigam, which represents Kashmir in miniature, and the complex relationship between the two headmen. Both men are shown to be flawed and prejudiced in their own way, but they are always willing to work together to maintain the fragile balance of the community. They do this not only for practical reasons, but also because this is how they see their history. The novel works on binary tension: Hindu-Muslim, Pachigam and the neighboring village, India-Pakistan, native traditions-external temptation, love-hate, ambition-resignation. The bottom line is that an extreme in any form is the greatest threat to community, and these extremes appear time and time again in the novel. Muslim fanatics work to sow discord in Kashmiri villages; Hindu officers believe that only a large dollop of repression can quell dissent; blind ambition leads to personal ruin and unleavened hate does much the same. One curious theme that Rushdie is keen to emphasize is how modernization does not have to be an agent of ruin and discord. The introduction of a television into the community and a sudden shift in traditional roles, for example, produce some tension but are ultimately neutral factors in and of themselves. On the whole, so long as no one from beyond the sacred Kashmiri valley tries to add or take away from the native inhabitants, all will be well. Humor is sprinkled throughout the novel for the sake of comic relief and to reveal the absurdity of the human condition, but again Rushdie takes more care with the Kashmiri jokes than with those stateside. The scenes in modern America are flat, forced or just plain silly, while those revolving around the Kashmiri villages are deep and rich and fully formed. It is as though Rushdie places some of the action in America only because he has to, and as a result deploys his weakest prose there. The climax is rushed and reads as though it was torn out of a pulp spy novel. All the passion and subtlety of Rushdie\u2019s fervent mind can be found in the Kashmiri sections. Looking at Shalimar from the historical novel point of view, what comes across as strikingly impressive is how Rushdie is able to delve deep into the history of Kashmiri villages while remaining in the near-present. The novel only spans two-three generations, but the weight of history lies heavy on the Kashmiri, yet this is not a burden. The clever literary device is the occupations of the Pachigam people: they are actors, singers and dancers who perform past lives (hence the \u2018clown\u2019 that is Shalimar). And all this is taken very seriously. The Indian army and radical Islam \u2013 the two great enemies of Kashmir \u2013 are treated as emotionally shallow, morally bankrupt, superficial agents. I found myself engrossed in these sections, whereas I breezed through the modern non-Kashmiri bits unaffected. I highly recommend Shalimar the Clown to those who already enjoy Rushdie, prefer character-driven stories, like exotic settings, or are aficionados of historical fiction. ...more http://thalukinglass.blogspot.in/2014... I find it a slight problem to prepare my comments on any Salman Rushdie Novel as I grapple with the oft occurring issue of where to begin from and how to end what I have started. Presence of this issue acutely describes my ineffectiveness in conjuring apt words and phrases to encompass the entire essence/worlds/themes that Rushdie packages into a single story-line. Rushdie\u2019s stories, (atleast in those ones that I have read so far), hop through continents a http://thalukinglass.blogspot.in/2014... I find it a slight problem to prepare my comments on any Salman Rushdie Novel as I grapple with the oft occurring issue of where to begin from and how to end what I have started. Presence of this issue acutely describes my ineffectiveness in conjuring apt words and phrases to encompass the entire essence/worlds/themes that Rushdie packages into a single story-line. Rushdie\u2019s stories, (atleast in those ones that I have read so far), hop through continents and bring out a well trussed story of what otherwise could be parallel individual stories, never to intersect each other. One may think so of many such intersections, but then again Rushdie plants the intersections at important historical junctions, thus rallying his entire learnings as a student of history to full effect. Shalimar the Clown, also does not escape from what has become the Rushdie Signature of allegorical interweaving of storylines placed within factual historical contexts. But while Midnight\u2019s Children was tragically humane in its telling despite the vast swathes of Indian history on which it was pitched across, Shalimar the Clown gets overshadowed by the historical context against which it is placed, and in a manner that might perhaps lead one to assume Rushdie rushed forward to tell the story of Kashmir and sprinkled characters as an after-thought to not make the novel a dry political commentary. However, Rushdie\u2019s prose has never had haters, except the ones who hate deconstructing metaphors and picking up dictionaries, and it emerges strongly in Shalimar as well. However, in Shalimar, his prose shines with a slightly lesser consistent intensity. Nevertheless, the effect of his metaphorical language never diminishes on the reader and like always, his allegories swarm around you invisibly, exerting their unfelt presence, picking their time and impact at a particular and relevant point in the story, to come out at you with full force of instantaneous and revelatory epiphanies and when they do so, one feels as if the story has been given a fresh coat of paint. When the novel involves a story sensitive to most Indians, one might get lost in fishing for ideological positions to be presented and to be taken in the narrative, with respect to the issue, something which Rushdie tactfully avoids through well-constructed events in the lives of Pachigam, not without mentioning, that Kashmiri terrorism is fed with Pakistani assistance and the whetting up of violent sentiments due to Indian military atrocities. However, in concentrating on Pachigam, as a village of entertainers and cooks, and a village which was out of scope of incursions and intimidations, owing to its relative non-chalance with the issue of Islamic identity splitting Kashmir, Rushdie kept himself safe from being pulled into ideological compartments in the development of story. However, soon enough the bugles of violence do start to resonate in his cozy village of innocence, the telling of which becomes the most humane part of the story, as the reader is slowly led into a despairing sense of gloom created from the dissolution of a sense of \u201cKashmiriyat\u201d in the residents of Pachigam and its eventual desolation from a once colourful, peaceful and charming locale of inter-mingling people. It is Kashmiriyat that is the winner in this Novel, which also was reflected, on one occassion, in Hindu and Muslims co-operating together to starve Gegroo Brothers inside a Mosque. People never let their religion to interfere with their experience of a shared culture and the residents of Pachigam were obstinate and reluctant to buy into the Islamic ideology being peddled by outsiders. However, after all that being said, the story exhausts itself of its charm a little after 3 quarters when the factual narrative comes out of the picture and the story is left to its two surviving main characters. From there on, without the backing of the force of real history, the two characters are left to fend for themselves in a dry denouement. It may lead one to think that the primary force of Rushdie\u2019s stories might as well be the historical allegories that he places them in, because without the backing of such allegories, his stories suddenly seem like a wandering animal with no direction or perhaps, I have become too accustomed to expecting every passage of his to have a metaphorical connotation, because he does it so beautifully. It is quite telling of the side-stepping of the issue of self-determination of Kashmiris, i.e., Kashmir for the Kashmiris, Kashmir \u2013 \"the ungrateful, shrewish mountain state where disloyalty was a badge of honour and insubordination a way of life\", when the daughter of Max Ophuls is named, \u201cIndia\u201d, replacing the name, \u201cKashmira\u201d. Rushdie never took ideological stances on what should/could have been and deftly places his Pachigami characters at the hands of destiny to tell the story of Kashmir as apolitically as ever. \"Your character is not your destiny\", says the Kashmiri Bombur Yambarzal, containing with it the tragic tale of a beautiful land which ought to have been in the hands of a beautiful and colourful fate. Bravo, Mr. Rushdie, Bravo! ...more Several years ago, I read The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie and felt very overwhelmed and outsmarted. I did enjoy the beautiful language but I think that I had problems with understanding the book because I didn\u2019t know enough about Islam and maybe also, because I didn\u2019t have a lot of experience with reading magical realism. Glimpses of that book has stayed with me, yet it still intimidated me enough to stay away from Rushdie\u2019s novels ever since. So just like when I read Don DeLillo\u2019s Falling Several years ago, I read The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie and felt very overwhelmed and outsmarted. I did enjoy the beautiful language but I think that I had problems with understanding the book because I didn\u2019t know enough about Islam and maybe also, because I didn\u2019t have a lot of experience with reading magical realism. Glimpses of that book has stayed with me, yet it still intimidated me enough to stay away from Rushdie\u2019s novels ever since. So just like when I read Don DeLillo\u2019s Falling Man , this was a test to see if Rushdie\u2019s works are for me. And it turns out, they are. I really enjoyed reading Shalimar the Clown . First of, it\u2019s beautifully written \u2013 Rushdie has a magnificent grasp of the language and really uses it to make his points. There are sections where he breaks it up and changes it completely to underline what\u2019s happening in the story. It\u2019s so skillfully done. He\u2019s truly a master of his arts. Secondly, it\u2019s a both fascinating and interesting story. On a background of the conflict in Kashmihr between hindus and muslims, between India and Palestine, the lives of Boonyi, Shalimar and Max unfold. But this is not where we start. It begins in Los Angeles where India Ophuls\u2019 father Max, is killed on her door step by his chauffeur, Shalimar the Clown. Rushdie then takes us back in time to explain why Shalimar killed Max. Shalimar was once a young happy muslim boy, completely in love with Boonyi, a young hindu girl. They loved each other very much and was therefore allowed to marry, but for Boonyi, life in the tiny village in Kashmir is not enough so when she gets a chance to get out, she takes it. Even when it means that she becomes the American ambassador\u2019s mistress. She leaves Shalimar and deeply crushed, he vows to kill her and any child she might get and he joins various terrorist groups in order to learn how to kill \u2013 and to wait for the right time to kill Boonyi. When Boonyi gets pregnant, a huge scandal erupts, and ultimately, Max\u2019s wife leaves him \u2013 and leaves India with his and Boonyi\u2019s child, a girl she names India. The way Rushdie manages to tell the story of these people, is superb. He makes them all believable, they change and grow and you believe that they could \u2013 and would \u2013 evolve in the ways, they do. There are quite a few supporting characters, all with their own identity and voice. Even though the book has a political message about the destruction of Kashmir and about how little it takes to destroy relations between various groups, when tragedy and disaster strikes, Rushdie still manages to keep the story well-paced and the sections discussion more political issues, feel integrated in the novel. There are some elements of magical realism in the story and they work to emphasize the rest of the story, as well as how the people of Kashmir think and see the world. In some ways, this can be seen as a retelling of the story of Paradise. Kashmir as the Garden of Eden, Shalimar and Boonyi as Adam and Eva, and Max, the first TV in the valley and other things as the snake who tricks Boonyi away from Eden and into a modern world filled with possibilities for temptation and sin. Due to a huge sacrifice, she\u2019s allowed to return \u2013 but Paradise has changed too, just like she has. It\u2019s also a book investigating terrorism and how peaceful tolerant countries can suddenly be caught up in violence and conflict, it\u2019s an attempt to understand what makes people become terrorists and how sometimes, it only takes a small incitement or a personal crisis to turn people. It investigates how people react when they are suddenly told how to dress and act and the length people are willing to go to to make other people act as they see fit. Rushdie also looks at how the decisions on nation level influence the ordinary people and the role of the military. When reading this, I kept feeling it was a 4 stars book. Even though I really loved it, it still felt like 4 stars. And I think the main reason for that is, that I\u2019m sure Salman Rushdie has written better books, even better books. Books, I want to rate 5 stars. I\u2019m really looking forward to reading another Rushdie novel \u2013 and he has made it to the list of my potential favorite authors. I just need to read a few more books by him to see if he can make it onto the list of favorites. When reading Shalimar the Clown in bed late at night, you\u2019re not able to just put the characters away as you do the book when you\u2019re done reading. Instead they stay with you and you think about their life and fates as you drift closer and closer to sleep. And as you slowly starts sleeping, not quite though, and as you loose your hold on reality and starts to enter the realms of dreams, you get closer to Boonyi in her small hut with her goats, struggling with addiction, trying to live while being dead, fighting to grasp reality again. Luckily, she has her dead mother to help her. And luckily, I have Rushdie\u2019s beautiful words to let me know the story of these amazing characters. ...more<---C>Salman Rushdie</---C>", "Title": "Shalimar the Clown"},
