{"Comments": "I learned that <---A>John Grisham</---A> should write more books in this genre because this is his best work....<---F>forget all those clients, partners, pelicans</---F>. One night, with a bunch of old friends in an apartment above Times Square, we tuned in to tv before turning in and The Bill Moyers Report was being aired; his guest was John Grisham. From his first responses, it was obvious that he possessed \"gravitas\" beyond his public persona. Grisham grew up in Arkansas,<---M> the son of a cotton farmer</---M>, and went on to L I learned that John Grisham should write more books in this genre because this is his best work....forget all those clients, partners, pelicans. One night, with a bunch of old friends in an apartment above Times Square, we tuned in to tv before turning in and The Bill Moyers Report was being aired; his guest was John Grisham. From his first responses, it was obvious that he possessed \"gravitas\" beyond his public persona. Grisham grew up in Arkansas, the son of a cotton farmer, and went on to Law School but swiftly left that field of endeavor. He was a born story teller and has used the law background to great advantage. The next week I read \"The Partner\" which was clever and classy and all those best-seller adjectives. However, as I started reading \"The Painted House\" it was a most touching, true and arresting book that deserves the most serious consideration. Not just a \"coming of age\" story, this book deals with so many universal themes that no one could read it without making contact. It is a beautiful book. Put it on your bedside table pile. ...more This was such a horrible book! It had potential - I kept thinking the story would come around but once I got 2/3 way through the book, I knew there was no room left for a story. I finished it anyway and was really disappointed. There is absolutely NO story. Nothing. We are introduced to this family and the other characters for no reason. It's almost like the author had great ideas for characters but couldn't come up with a story line. If you've never read Grisham and this is your first book - PLE This was such a horrible book! It had potential - I kept thinking the story would come around but once I got 2/3 way through the book, I knew there was no room left for a story. I finished it anyway and was really disappointed. There is absolutely NO story. Nothing. We are introduced to this family and the other characters for no reason. It's almost like the author had great ideas for characters but couldn't come up with a story line. If you've never read Grisham and this is your first book - PLEASE don't judge him by it. This is, by far, his worst book in my opinion. ...more For being from John Grisham, this was such a great book! For a long time I've enjoyed his legal thrillers, but after a while I suspected each book would be exactly the same as the last with the only difference being the plot. Granted that's one of the reasons I liked his novels, because I could trust they would be consistently good. When this book first came out I couldn't wait to read it and I fell in love with his ability to tell a heartfelt, meaningful story having nothing to do with law. I l For being from John Grisham, this was such a great book! For a long time I've enjoyed his legal thrillers, but after a while I suspected each book would be exactly the same as the last with the only difference being the plot. Granted that's one of the reasons I liked his novels, because I could trust they would be consistently good. When this book first came out I couldn't wait to read it and I fell in love with his ability to tell a heartfelt, meaningful story having nothing to do with law. I liked this book so much that I even recorded the Hallmark channel original that was made of it! ...more I was wary when this book came out - doubting Grisham could pull off historical fiction. Well he absolutely nailed it. It\u2019s obvious Grisham drew from his personal experiences growing up in rural Arkansas. This is a heart-wrenching story of an impoverished farming community. It\u2019s got it all, destitute share-croppers, migrant farm workers, a sweet young boy who lives for baseball, a devastating flood and a mentally unhinged murderer thrown in for good measure. I wonder if Grisham had written this I was wary when this book came out - doubting Grisham could pull off historical fiction. Well he absolutely nailed it. It\u2019s obvious Grisham drew from his personal experiences growing up in rural Arkansas. This is a heart-wrenching story of an impoverished farming community. It\u2019s got it all, destitute share-croppers, migrant farm workers, a sweet young boy who lives for baseball, a devastating flood and a mentally unhinged murderer thrown in for good measure. I wonder if Grisham had written this under a pseudonym if it would have been taken more seriously. Who knows, even ranked as one of the great American novels - it was that good. Plus it inspired me to getting around to giving my house a fresh coat of paint. ...more This is not the usual John Grisham fare, but instead is a beautiful story told with great warmth and compassion. I have always enjoyed Grisham's books as good airplane reads--but never expected that he would write a book that I would list as one of my all-time favorites. \"The hill people and the Mexicans arrived on the same day. It was a Wednesday, early in September 1952. The Cardinals were five games behind the Dodgers with three weeks to go, and the season looked hopeless. The cotton, however, was waist-high to my father, over my head, and he and my grandfather could be heard before supper whispering words that were seldom heard. It could be a `good crop.'\" This was a really pleasant surprise. When asked about John Grisham, most of us immediately think of his \"The hill people and the Mexicans arrived on the same day. It was a Wednesday, early in September 1952. The Cardinals were five games behind the Dodgers with three weeks to go, and the season looked hopeless. The cotton, however, was waist-high to my father, over my head, and he and my grandfather could be heard before supper whispering words that were seldom heard. It could be a `good crop.'\" This was a really pleasant surprise. When asked about John Grisham, most of us immediately think of his wide catalogue of legal thrillers and their film adaptations. <+++>A Painted House</+++> is nothing like his other work (I admit to having read only one title - The Firm - a fact that I intend to change in due time) because it in no way relates to his traditional formula of legal thrilers. There is not a single lawyer in <+++>A Painted House</+++> ; the best we get is a single policeman, because this story is set in rural Arkansas in 1952. The novel is narrated in first person by a certain <---C>Luke</---C> Chandler, who also happens to be seven year old. The Chandler family are cotton farmers, and the book chronicles their struggles from late summer to early fall, when they harvest their crop with the help of Mexicans And Hill People. Luke will spend many hours picking cotton and living a boy's life; he'll hear things he shouldn't hear and see things he shouldn't see. These experiences will change him, as he'll have to grow up and face the dangers of adult life. But there will be many pleasant moments, too; the carniva;, first crush and many sweets from the stores in town. The people on farms have to be tough, or they won't survive. We experience their simple joys like listening to a baseball broadcast, but we also experience their despair with difficult harvest, their variness of people from other regions, the town gossip and the ever present preachers. This book is the testament to Grisham's ability to tell a meaningful, sweet story that has nothing to do with the law. As he himself grew up in Arkansas, the novel has a certain autobiographical feel to it, and many events might have occured to the 7 year old John as well (I think many of them dealt with snakes). Grisham's narrator's voice is precocious but not offensive; easy to read and very desriptive. This is not a coutroom drama, but the book is just as suspenseful, if not even more; the events and the characters are well drawn and memorable, and we only wish we could spend more time with them. This is a very sweet coming of age story, dealing with universal themes, which is also a real delight to get immersed in. Forget the chambers, appeals and clients; check in at the Painted House. ...more This book came to me very highly recommended. I had two friends who really really liked it and just knew I would love the story too. I suppose if it had been cleaned up a bit, I probably would have liked it more. The characters were engaging enough although the plot did seem to drag a little bit and left you feeling like the auther was searching for a plot in a rambling sort of way. I had a hard time with the language and violence; I'm a wouss I guess. I also couldn't get past the feeling that I This book came to me very highly recommended. I had two friends who really really liked it and just knew I would love the story too. I suppose if it had been cleaned up a bit, I probably would have liked it more. The characters were engaging enough although the plot did seem to drag a little bit and left you feeling like the auther was searching for a plot in a rambling sort of way. I had a hard time with the language and violence; I'm a wouss I guess. I also couldn't get past the feeling that I was reading the thoughts of a teenage boy, not a seven-year-old. But I did finish it, because Grisham did a good job of making me really really want to see how it all turned out. So I will give that credit where it is due. ...more I like Grisham's legal thrillers on occasion, and I love SKIPPING CHRISTMAS. This is an altogether different beast. Straight up historical fiction, set on a struggling cotton farm in 1950's Arkansas, it's as much a picture of that time and place as it is a coming of age tale. I would recommend this to teens, I think it would be great for classroom discussion. It's a sort of post-Depression, Grapes of Wrath-lite. I seldom give five stars; they must be earned by the author's offerings. This book supplied all the necessary plot ingredients to satisfy the curiosities of this avid, mature reader. (No desire to see the movie, it could not possibly do this story justice.) Its not for the squeamish or sheltered reading audience. A realistic slice of life, poor/destitute Arkansas folks during the early Fifties, well-described and believable. I don't normally read Grisham, he's a great writer just not my typical genre. This, however, was an awesome story. I loved the whole experience of entering the world of Luke Chandler in 1951. It was a tremendously entertaining story. Well written, with so much detail and humor, realistic voices and a simpler time that was somehow made to be full of drama and suspense. I felt this was one of the best stories I can recall written from this era and brought so fully into focus. Luke Chandler, 7 years I don't normally read Grisham, he's a great writer just not my typical genre. This, however, was an awesome story. I loved the whole experience of entering the world of Luke Chandler in 1951. It was a tremendously entertaining story. Well written, with so much detail and humor, realistic voices and a simpler time that was somehow made to be full of drama and suspense. I felt this was one of the best stories I can recall written from this era and brought so fully into focus. Luke Chandler, 7 years old, lives in Black Oak Arkansas with his Mom and Dad, Gran and Pappy on a cotton farm. The cotton is their world. They are farmers, first and foremost and the cotton is their master. When the story begins, it is harvesting time. The summer crop has been good, the weather has been favorable and the Chandlers are occupied with the task of finding \"hill people\" and Mexicans to hire to help harvest the cotton. They will pay them to help pick the cotton and in return they will share their lives for the next two months. The decisions made at the beginning of the harvest turn out to have irrevocable consequences for the Chandlers, the Sprools- the \"hill people', and the people of Black Oak. These decisions and their resulting effects are unspooled steadily and with increasing tension as the story progresses in a wonderfully mesmerizing tapestry, full of color and vibrancy. In essence, I was enthralled by this story. It was a journey to another place and time, one I was unfamiliar with, but was brought to feel right at home in. Read it, it's a pleasure. ...more Such a well-written, engaging book. As the back cover suggests, A Painted House reminded me of books like To Kill a Mockingbird and Huck Finn. A boy from Arkansas (who loves the Cardinals and baseball and dreams of moving to St. Louis, all pluses in my book) grows up living the hard life on a cotton farm in the 50s. The book paints a vivid picture of what that common life might be like, with coming of age stories, family drama, and interpersonal conflicts, all while throwing in the less common i Such a well-written, engaging book. As the back cover suggests, A Painted House reminded me of books like To Kill a Mockingbird and Huck Finn. A boy from Arkansas (who loves the Cardinals and baseball and dreams of moving to St. Louis, all pluses in my book) grows up living the hard life on a cotton farm in the 50s. The book paints a vivid picture of what that common life might be like, with coming of age stories, family drama, and interpersonal conflicts, all while throwing in the less common intrigues of murders and a natural disaster. The relationships between ethnic groups, the role of the church, the pace of a 50s farm life, the ties of family, the importance of the paint on your house and its contrast to disasters, and finally the ambiguity of realized dreams... all highlights from a worthy one day read of 480 pages. I'd never read a Grisham book before, but when I realized he wrote books that didn't involve lawyers, I decided to check this one out. Not disappointed. One of my favorite reads of the year. ...more This is, so far as I know, Grisham's second or third departure from his legal thrillers. I have read several of his previous works and I found this novel to be a refreshing change, for the writer. Until that September of 1952, Luke Chandler had never kept a secret or told a single lie. But in the long, hot summer of his seventh year, two groups of migrant workers\u2014and two very dangerous men\u2014came through the Arkansas Delta to work the Chandler cotton farm. And suddenly mysteries are flooding Luke\u2019 This is, so far as I know, Grisham's second or third departure from his legal thrillers. I have read several of his previous works and I found this novel to be a refreshing change, for the writer. Until that September of 1952, Luke Chandler had never kept a secret or told a single lie. But in the long, hot summer of his seventh year, two groups of migrant workers\u2014and two very dangerous men\u2014came through the Arkansas Delta to work the Chandler cotton farm. And suddenly mysteries are flooding Luke\u2019s world. A brutal murder leaves the town seething in gossip and suspicion. A beautiful young woman ignites forbidden passions. A fatherless baby is born. And someone has begun furtively painting the bare clapboards of the Chandler farmhouse, slowly, painstakingly, bathing the run-down structure in gleaming white. And as young Luke watches the world around him, he unravels secrets that could shatter lives\u2014and change his family and his town forever ...more I read this some time ago. I love the story. The setting is in the 50s, a much simpler time and yet a much more difficult time. The story is told through the eyes of an eight-year-old. I'm not sure, but I understand the story is based on John Grisham's childhood. This is not a fast pace book. It is so much more. John Grisham told a very heart moving tale of the hard times as a farmer through the eyes of a young boy. The boy had me laughing at times with some of his silly pranks. It was a time th I read this some time ago. I love the story. The setting is in the 50s, a much simpler time and yet a much more difficult time. The story is told through the eyes of an eight-year-old. I'm not sure, but I understand the story is based on John Grisham's childhood. This is not a fast pace book. It is so much more. John Grisham told a very heart moving tale of the hard times as a farmer through the eyes of a young boy. The boy had me laughing at times with some of his silly pranks. It was a time that you didn't dare get caught using a cuss word, although the young boy would from time to time sneak off and practice curse words that his older brother had taught him. The story took you to a place and time where folks lived off the land and the hardships that each day brought. I love this story. Great read and there were times you laugh and times you sat on the edge of your seat. There are surprises that keep you turning the pages. This book is a wonderful read for any age. ...more I read one review stating that the title of this book should have been \"Watching Paint Dry\". While it's not as exciting and riveting as Grisham's other works, and it took me about six chapters to get into the story, it was still an enjoyable book. Set in 1952 Arkansas, 7-year-old Luke Chandler is forced to grow up quickly when he becomes exposed to several adult situations. It seems as though everyone in the story has a secret to keep and they all manage to confide in Luke. The yearly ritual of h I read one review stating that the title of this book should have been \"Watching Paint Dry\". While it's not as exciting and riveting as Grisham's other works, and it took me about six chapters to get into the story, it was still an enjoyable book. Set in 1952 Arkansas, 7-year-old Luke Chandler is forced to grow up quickly when he becomes exposed to several adult situations. It seems as though everyone in the story has a secret to keep and they all manage to confide in Luke. The yearly ritual of hiring \"Hill People\" and Mexican aliens as temporary laborers on their cotton farm turns out to be a dangerous proposition this year. Luke is not pleased when the hill people set up camp in the front yard, right in the middle of his baseball diamond, but is even less pleased when one of them turns out to be a bully and is involved in a fatal fight in town one Saturday. Luke was unfortunate enough to be a witness and is torn between telling the truth or incurring the bully's wrath. Luke also witnesses a brutal murder and the birth of an illegitimate baby, both turn out to be secrets he keeps and issues that cause him to wrestle with right vs. wrong. Throw in a schoolboy crush on a girl 10 years his senior and the constant worry about how the weather will affect the cotton crop this year, and you get a story with several different situations and angles. Grisham's writing style is easy to read and very descriptive. Even though the plot didn't move too quickly, I still enjoyed this book and will continue reading Grisham's work. ...more This was the first John Grisham book I\u2019ve read in years. It was different than what we normally see from him; it wasn\u2019t a legal thriller. I really enjoyed it. It wasn\u2019t fast-paced; it\u2019s not the type of story that\u2019s meant to move along quickly. It was a realistic story about the everyday life of seven-year-old, Luke. He lives with his parents and grandparents on a cotton farm in a small town in rural Arkansas. They wake before the crack of dawn \u2013 tend to the animals, eat breakfast \u2013 then it\u2019s off This was the first John Grisham book I\u2019ve read in years. It was different than what we normally see from him; it wasn\u2019t a legal thriller. I really enjoyed it. It wasn\u2019t fast-paced; it\u2019s not the type of story that\u2019s meant to move along quickly. It was a realistic story about the everyday life of seven-year-old, Luke. He lives with his parents and grandparents on a cotton farm in a small town in rural Arkansas. They wake before the crack of dawn \u2013 tend to the animals, eat breakfast \u2013 then it\u2019s off to the cotton fields to work in the baking sun for a twelve hour day. This is the type of story that really makes you appreciate the luxuries of modern day technology. ...more Found this very entertaining. Good story. I can see a movie being made of this tale about a little boy getting caught up in adult drama when all he wants to do is dream about being a professional baseball player someday. Centered around the hard life of a poor farming family in 1950s Arkansas, and seen through the eyes of a 7-year-old, many of the most dramatic elements of the story could be very compelling cinemagraphicaly and, if done right, the characters' plights very moving. I picked this book up at a library book sale, and didn't have very high expectations for it. But after the first few pages I was hooked. It's a great sweet story. Not your typical Grisham novel. It did get my attention with the story line. Always up for a good southern mystery. This is NOT your father's Grisham! From the back cover: Until that September of 1952, Luke Chandler had never kept a secret or told a single lie. This is an interesting description that tells nothing and everything about the book :) First, the only thing about this book that is Grisham-like is that it takes place in the South. Other than that, you'd never know who wrote this book if his name wasn't on the cover. In some ways, it reminded me of a book I read in high school -- John Steinbeck's The Gr This is NOT your father's Grisham! From the back cover: Until that September of 1952, Luke Chandler had never kept a secret or told a single lie. This is an interesting description that tells nothing and everything about the book :) First, the only thing about this book that is Grisham-like is that it takes place in the South. Other than that, you'd never know who wrote this book if his name wasn't on the cover. In some ways, it reminded me of a book I read in high school -- John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath . I think it was the farming aspect and the time period. I did have a hard time picturing Luke (told from his POV) as a 7 year old. He just sounded really really grown up! I'm sure that children in that time and in that life did have to be more grownup (in some ways) than children are now, but it really was interesting reading about his life! The concept of \"a painted house\" was fascinating to me. From an insult to a secret to Tom Sawyer to disappointments, something that seems so common today (in my culture, anyway) just wasn't. I loved the characters and the character development in this book. The dialogue and descriptions were totally believable, and really took me to that era and place. The stories of going to town on Saturday, picking cotton, the grandparents. . .all of it made this a really interesting read. Whether you like typical Grisham or not, this is a great book. And it's totally different -- not a lawyer to be found :) ...more \"A Painted House\" was my favorite of John Grisham's novels. Grisham's depictions of life in the '50s on a farm reminded me of one of my favorite authors, John Steinbeck. Grisham's prose is sparse but beautiful in this story, which involves a murder, but is mostly a coming-of-age story of the young protagonist. Entah mengapa, diantara segudang buku Grisham, buku-bukunya yang tidak bertema hukum justru yang menjadi favorit saya-kecuali yang 'The Rainmaker' dan 'A Time To Kill'-- Seperti halnya di buku 'The Bleacher', dengan lihainya Grisham mengaduk emosi pembaca dengan kehidupan getir sang tokoh utama. berbeda dengan 'The Bleacher' dimana tokoh utamanya adalah mantan pemain baseball terkenal yang kemudian hidup 'gagal', di buku APH, tokoh tamanya adalah sang tokoh cilik yang baru berusia 7 tahun, Luke C Entah mengapa, diantara segudang buku Grisham, buku-bukunya yang tidak bertema hukum justru yang menjadi favorit saya-kecuali yang 'The Rainmaker' dan 'A Time To Kill'-- Seperti halnya di buku 'The Bleacher', dengan lihainya Grisham mengaduk emosi pembaca dengan kehidupan getir sang tokoh utama. berbeda dengan 'The Bleacher' dimana tokoh utamanya adalah mantan pemain baseball terkenal yang kemudian hidup 'gagal', di buku APH, tokoh tamanya adalah sang tokoh cilik yang baru berusia 7 tahun, Luke Chandler dengan gaya bicara ber-aku, Luke Chandler bercerita mengenai kemelaratan keluarga mereka yang hanya berprofesi sebagai petani kapas di daerah Arkansas era 1950-an. Hidup di tengah kemskinan, Luke dengan polosnya menunjukkan kecerewetannya dalam memandang dunia. ada saja yang dia komentari yang tak jarang membuat ingin tertawa, tapi saat yang lain justru membuat tercenung karena kisah getir yang dilihatnya. ketika musim panen kapas pada tahun 1952 tiba, seperti keluarga petani miskin lainnya, keluarga Chandler menyewa pekerja untuk memetik kapas milik mereka. para pekerja ini tentu saja lebih miskin daripada keluarga mereka yang berasal dari pegunungan atau pendatang Meksiko. dan selama 2 bulan para pekerja ini tinggal di tanah keluarga Chandler, kisah suka duka di buku ini bergulir. Tapi, musim panen tahun ini tidak seperti tahun sebelumnya. selain para pekerja yang lebih 'aneh', tapi musim panen mereka tahun ini terancam gagal panen karena banjir. padahal, bahkan saat sukses panen pun keluarga ini mesti hidup dengan cara super hemat, gagal panen jelas merupakan mimpi buruk. Hasil kerja keras selama setahun musnah begitu saja padahal utang menjerat mereka. dan si kecil Luke, terdorong karena ingin membuat rumahnya indah seperti rumah para petani kaya, ngotot ingin mengecat rumahnya. padahal, cat merupakan benda mewah bagi keluarga itu... Yang menarik di buku ini adalah bagaimana polosnya si Luke cilik dalam menghadapi kemiskinan yang menghimpit mereka, kemiskinan tidak harus dihadapi dengan keluhan dan kemiskinan bukan hambatan untuk bisa berbahagia. Tapi, ada sesuatu yang aneh di buku ini. untuk seorang anak yang baru berumur 7 tahun, Luke jelas terlalu cerewet dan kritis. gaya bahasa yang ber-aku menurut cara pandang anak 'ingusan' terlalu kritis bagi seorang anak. bahkan saya sering menganggap bahwa tokoh Luke sebenarnya jauh lebih tua daripada yang ditulis Grisham memngingat buah pikiran Luke terlalu instens. seharusnya, untuk cara berpikir anak berumur 7 tahun, Grisham bagusnya memakai cara bercerita ala 'Forest Gump'-nya Winston Groom atau 'The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time'-nya Mark Haddon. walaupun tokoh dalam kedua buku tersebut memiliki keterbelakangan mental, tapi cara berpikir mereka masih polos kekanakan. dan itu juga yang harusnya digunakan Grisham dalam menggambarkan si polos Luke. Bukannya Luke yang terlalu cerewet ala nenek-nenek. Bagaimanapun, kepiawaian Grisham dalam meramu cerita kembali hadir di buku ini. kekurangan yang ada di buku ini tertutupi atraksi pamer kepiawaian bercerita. Dan juju, ada hal ucu lain mengenai buku ini. Untuk menggambarkan sebuah keluarga petani melarat, Grisham, harum memutar waktu dengan mengambil setting waktu era tahun 1950-an. dimana Amerika masih terseok-seok ekonominya. Grisham tidak mengambil setting waktu masa sekarang mungkin karena para petani mereka sekarang tidak ada yang miskin lagi. Coba kalau Grisham tinggal di Indonesia. Pasti cerita yang dibuat bakal lebih dramatis lagi, dan tak usah repot-repot memutar setting waktu ke belakang...T_T ...more The audiobook narrator makes this better than my own reading would be. I am biased against 1st person point-of-view (thanks to the New Adult genre). But this book reminds me how great 1st person can be. And I can\u2019t imagine this story done any other way. This is 1st person Luke. He is seven-years-old. He is always sneaking around and listening to things and seeing things he\u2019s not supposed to. It was exciting. And then he\u2019s got all these secrets. He doesn\u2019t want to keep secrets but he has to. I enj The audiobook narrator makes this better than my own reading would be. I am biased against 1st person point-of-view (thanks to the New Adult genre). But this book reminds me how great 1st person can be. And I can\u2019t imagine this story done any other way. This is 1st person Luke. He is seven-years-old. He is always sneaking around and listening to things and seeing things he\u2019s not supposed to. It was exciting. And then he\u2019s got all these secrets. He doesn\u2019t want to keep secrets but he has to. I enjoyed Luke\u2019s thoughts and dialogue. His family is dirt poor but he\u2019s happy. Luke finds joy in daydreams about baseball and getting a St. Louis Cardinals jacket. Luke feels lucky when he compares his life to sharecroppers who have no screens, no fan, and no electricity to listen to the baseball games on the radio. Their kids have no shoes. I consider John Grisham the king of character development, and this book is full of it. Here\u2019s an example: A poor family buys groceries on credit. Little boy signs the account book at the store for something he is buying. The store lady looks at it and says \u201cComing along.\u201d She meant his handwriting was improving. I thought she was going to say something negative. I smiled and enjoyed so many things during this book. At the end I cried, but it wasn\u2019t a depressing cry. It was more about good things people do for others - or do for the principle of the thing. There was a very moving idea at the end \u2013 that no matter how dire your circumstances, someone else is worse off and would love to be in your shoes. I was also happy about Luke and his parents starting something new that was going to be good. Some readers complained that some of the story lines were not finished at the end. I was ok with that. Sure I would have loved to keep going or have a sequel. But that was because the stories were good and I didn\u2019t want to stop. WHAT\u2019S IT ABOUT? Luke\u2019s family owns a cotton farm. The story begins in September as they hire a group of Mexicans and a family from the hills to help pick cotton. The Mexicans stay in the barn. The family camps in the yard. The story takes place over the next two months as these characters interact and pick cotton. They play baseball. Some local bullies fight. A carnival comes to town. There\u2019s a mystery about a pregnant teen girl. AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR: David Lansbury\u2019s young boy voice and emotional interpretations were fabulous. DATA: Narrative mode: 1st person Luke. Unabridged audiobook length: 12 hrs and 7 mins. Swearing language: mild but rarely used. No sexual language or sex scenes. Setting: 1952 Arkansas. Book copyright: 2000 & 2001. Genre: fiction. ...more John Grisham's novel A Painted House met with mixed reviews when it was first published in 2000. Many derided his pacing, one of the work's greatest strengths. And some thought he was in over his head after fleeing the safe harbour of the legal thriller that he had come to dominate. I really like the book. Told in the first-person through the eyes of seven-year-old Luke Chandler, A Painted House chronicles three generations of cotton farmers and their trials in Arkansas in the 1950s. The story is John Grisham's novel A Painted House met with mixed reviews when it was first published in 2000. Many derided his pacing, one of the work's greatest strengths. And some thought he was in over his head after fleeing the safe harbour of the legal thriller that he had come to dominate. I really like the book. Told in the first-person through the eyes of seven-year-old Luke Chandler, A Painted House chronicles three generations of cotton farmers and their trials in Arkansas in the 1950s. The story is as much about the transition between eras--an agricultural economy toward a commodities-based economy--as it is about the brutal murder that stands as the story's central conflict. I classify this book as a literary novel, and Grisham is right at home here in taking his time to really describe life in rural Arkansas. The major difference in this project and, say, A Time to Kill (a classic, in my estimation) is the different ratios of expository writing. In ATtK, Grisham sends the plot down the chute at break-neck speed. Here he can indulge in some very engaging characterization (I love the family patriarch, Eli Chandler) and really focus on the tedious, risky prospect of relying on a crop to remain afloat. Farm life is depicted with care and reverence and the audience's emotions rise and fall with the Chandlers as elements outside of their control--namely weather and work ethic--impact their ability to harvest the cotton. I think Grisham doesn't get enough credit as a stylist, and if you haven't looked at A Painted House I think you should. I finished J.G. Ballard's The High Rise last night and it was also good--though the second act had some major flaws. Fans of dystopic science fiction will no doubt devour Ballard's caustic appraisal of social class in exurban London... ...more This was my first book read by John Grisham and still is one of my all time favorites!!! I listed to the audio version of the book. It is full of suspense, drama and humor and there is not a lawyer in site. Written from the viewpoint of 7yr old Luke who is the Chandler family's son, the book covers a season of cotton picking along with all of the details and drama the cotton farmer experiences as a result of mother nature. The family hires a crew of Mexicans and \"hill people\" to pick the cotton f This was my first book read by John Grisham and still is one of my all time favorites!!! I listed to the audio version of the book. It is full of suspense, drama and humor and there is not a lawyer in site. Written from the viewpoint of 7yr old Luke who is the Chandler family's son, the book covers a season of cotton picking along with all of the details and drama the cotton farmer experiences as a result of mother nature. The family hires a crew of Mexicans and \"hill people\" to pick the cotton for the season alongside of Luke. Luke is witness to a serious of events between the Mexicans and hill people that will leave you reeling for more, honestly I know why there is not a sequel to this book because I don't really think you can top the drama that occurred on the farm. The Chandler family struggles to get the cotton picked before the storms come which will wipe out the crops ... in the meantime, Luke convinces his father to purchase paint for the farmhouse (even though they cannot afford it) and the Mexicans agree to help paint the house. ...more Slow rambling tale that emanates from unbelievable POV of seven year. No plot. A Painted House by John Grisham Plot Summary A Painted House takes place in rural Arkansas in the early 1950's and as we enter the story, Luke Chandler and his family are preparing themselves for another long season of cotton picking. Young Luke Chandler (about 7 years of age) has grown up on a farm all his life with his parents, Jesse and Kathleen Chandler, as well as his grandparents, Eli and Ruth Chandler, who Luke naturally refers to as \"Pappy\" and \"Gran\". The Chandler family is one that i A Painted House by John Grisham Plot Summary A Painted House takes place in rural Arkansas in the early 1950's and as we enter the story, Luke Chandler and his family are preparing themselves for another long season of cotton picking. Young Luke Chandler (about 7 years of age) has grown up on a farm all his life with his parents, Jesse and Kathleen Chandler, as well as his grandparents, Eli and Ruth Chandler, who Luke naturally refers to as \"Pappy\" and \"Gran\". The Chandler family is one that is fairly poor, lives in an unpainted house, and works extremely hard simply to pay the bills. However, Luke's mother Kathleen grew up in a fairly well-off family, so it seems she has different plans for her son Luke; conversly he has different plans as he dreams of becoming a part of the St. Louis Cardinals. In order to harvest all the cotton in this particular summer, Luke and Eli go to pick up two groups of migrant workers. One being a family called the \"Spruills,\" a group of \"hill people\" full of diverse personalities, and a bunch of Mexican workers who travel there anually in search of work. Both these groups include characters that have a dramatic effect on the Chandler family and their community as the story progresses. Life goes on in the cotton fields and Luke becomes smitten with the Spruill girl named Tally, but is scared because of her brother Hank who seems to be very aggressive and violent. This suspicion proves to be true when Hank decides to take matters into his own hands one day in town. While enjoying one of his days off in the town with his family, Luke witnesses Hank beat a kid to death with a two by four for tormenting one of his brothers. Luke is terrified of what Hank might do if he squealed on him, so when questioned by the sheriff, Luke keeps his mouth shut and uncharacteristically begins shutting in secrets. Afterward, Hank continues to cause trouble on the farm even when he's not working. During a baseball game, a Mexican who goes by the name of Cowboy, gets one of his ribs broken by Hank. This definitely does not sit well with Cowboy and it does not sit well with his pocket knife either. While Hank is causing trouble, his crippled brother Trot uses his earnings to buy paint for the unpainted Chandeler house. The house slowly begins to be painted and is noticed by Luke, but the identity of the painter remains unknown to him and his family for the most of the book. As this is all happening, rumours begin to spread about the impregnated, unwed Libby Latcher who happens to be close to neighbors with the Chandlers. Libby is only fifteen years old and this pregnancy becomes a scandal in the town, mainly because she refuses to name the father. Finally, one night \"Gran\" and Kathleen Chandler are called to help deliver the baby and it is found out that the father is Luke's uncle Ricky, who is off at war in Korea. This truth is kept a secret by Luke and his family to keep them away from the drama. Later in the story, the carnival comes into town and becomes a rather large event for everyone, especially Hank Spruill. When Hank catches wind of a circus wrestler offering large sums of money to anyone who can beat him, he is immediately in the ring with confidence. Hank proceeds to beat the wrestler and take his promised amount of money. Hank, now loaded with cash, suddenly realizes that he has no interest in picking cotton anymore and plans to leave town. No one has a problem with this seeing as he was causing so much trouble at the farm. Hank begins to leave town, followed closely by a curious Luke, but Cowboy has other plans for Hank's future. Cowboy, still angered by the baseball incident, wants revenge for his broken rib and attacks Hank on his way out of town. After fighting for a while, Cowboy plunges his pocket knife into Hank's midsection several times until he is dead and proceeds to dispose of his body in a nearby river. Luke, who once again was witnessing a brutal murder, tried to vacate the premises before Cowboy had a chance to catch him, but he was unsuccessful. Cowboy threatens the lives of Luke's family if the word of this murder should ever leak out. Luke of course agrees to keep quiet, but it didn't really matter seeing as Cowboy would soon run off with Luke's love, Tally Spruill. This breaks the heart of Tally's family and Luke himself. Finally, all the violent characters are gone and no longer play a role in the lives of the Chandler family, but there is more misfortune to be had. Rain becomes very heavy on the farm and due to flooding, the cotton was ruined. Seeing as the cotton was no longer available for picking, the hill people and the Mexicans decide to move on. The Chandlers are now left alone and in significant debt, but Luke continues to buy paint and finish the work of the \"mysterious\" person who decided to start painting their unpainted shack. With the house now almost completely painted, Luke's mother announces that the Chandler family, leaving the grandparents behind, will be moving up North to start a new life. Eli, Kathleen, and Luke Chandler bid Pappy and Gran goodbye as they leave to begin a successful urban life elsewhere. Collection of Quotes 1. In this quote, tough guy Hank Spruill ironically expresses his thoughts about Cowboy after the baseball incident. \"I'm gonna kill that boy.\" - Hank Spruill 2. In this quote, Luke decribes his \"nightly ritual\" to the readers. \"We would turn on the radio and Harry Caray at KMOX in St. louis would deliver the play-by-play of our beloved Cardinals.\" - Luke Chandler 3. In this quote, Luke describes what he is seeing as Hank Spruill displays his incredible aggression before killing one of the Sisco brothers with a two by four. \"The fight should've been over, but Hank had other plans.\" - Luke Chandler 4. In this quote, Luke expresses his desire for his life to return to normal after all the murders and hatred have taken place. \"I wanted everybody off our farm and out of our lives.\" 5. In this quote, Luke's mother gives a final hint of hope and happiness foreshadowing the life that awaits them. \"I looked at my mother. Her head was resting on the back of her seat. Her eyes were closed, and a grin was slowly forming at the corners of her mouth.\" Critical Book Review Response I read a book review from EntertainmentWeekly.com and I find it to be very similar to a review I would write about the book. Having read many other Grisham novels, I am familiar with his other writing styles and genres which was a main vocal point in the review. \" 'This is not a legal thriller,' John Grisham writes in an introduction to A Painted House. 'In fact, there is not a single lawyer, dead or alive, in this story.' \" Bruce Fretts also points out how well-written and action packed this story is even though the storyline sounds rather boring. I totally agree. I found this novel to be extremely exciting despite my preconceived notions of a boring book beforehand. \"Lest this sound too sleepy, like some fictionalized version of 'The Farmer's Almanac,' fear not: In addition to floods and tornadoes, the plot packs in an illegitimate birth, an interracial affair, and a couple of gory killings. Never let it be said this man doesn't know how to spin a good yarn.\" I completely agree with everything said in this review; this novel was definitely one \"you read slowly because you don't want it to end.\" ...more Not a crime novel at all. I started this book thinking it was another one of those much appraised courtroom crime novels that've made Grisham rich and famous but no- it is a simple yet an effective book about the paradox of human choices and relationships, not only amongst themselves but with each other in a society too. I read somewhere that after having written so many courtroom thriller, it was only natural for Grisham to want to write something with no juries or trials or nagging conspiracy Not a crime novel at all. I started this book thinking it was another one of those much appraised courtroom crime novels that've made Grisham rich and famous but no- it is a simple yet an effective book about the paradox of human choices and relationships, not only amongst themselves but with each other in a society too. I read somewhere that after having written so many courtroom thriller, it was only natural for Grisham to want to write something with no juries or trials or nagging conspiracy issues. This was his first attempt and I cannot say I'm disappointed. There were all kinds of wrong-doings in the book but not all criminal. A murder or two did take place but unlike his other works there wasn't a trial here. The book is about a poor farming family living in the little town of Black Oak, Jonesboro, Arkansas, where the author happens to have been born. It is the picking season and they are looking for Mexicans and \"hillbillies\" to work their farm. Luke, a smart 7-year old kid, goes out with him Pappy, grandfather, to pick them. It was almost a good crop but as it turns out, \"the land is as unforgiving as it's people\". The harvest and the good weather did not end long and in the one and a half month of it's longevity, their lives changed in ways they couldn't have imagined all those days ago. Luke was a simple, good Baptist boy who prayed like one and believed in sin. He was a smart kid in the sense that he could understand all that was going around him whether or not he was supposed to. Sometimes a little too much for his own good. The story goes on smoothly with no particularly important event unless one Saturday on a 'ritual' trip to town a beating takes place that ultimately results in a death and then after a while another gutting that no one has any clue about but the Little Luke. Sometimes you cannot help but feel sorry for the poor boy. He's seen more than even a little farmer boy from a small town with all sorts of people, was supposed to have seen. And he's forced to keep them all a secret. You feel sorry for the poor boy because you know the mental state all this \"knowing the things he shouldn't\" have put him in and yet he's burdened with more secrets to keep as the days go by. He longs for a companion since he was an only child and his only friend, his uncle Ricky, was away fighting the War in Korea. By the time it all ends, or gradually draw towards it, he feels he's had enough and cannot hold it in any longer when he starts unraveling some of them one by one to either his mom or Pappy. You're both happy and sad for Luke who's both happy and sad to be going away to a better city with a better future but at the same time away from his grandparents and the house he's never spent a night away from. It's amazing how the small little town of Black Oak constitutes for most of what the world really is to him. He's also kinda funny! He's a bit too curious for his own good sometimes. He's burdened with responsibilities from an early age but it's refreshing to watch him indulge in little mischief that a boy of coming age is more than often expected to get himself in. Not only was it a murder that he'd seen, he'd also sneaked around to see the birth of an illegitimate child and then explaining his mother how it wasn't his idea at all. His mother is a feel-good character in the sense he portrays a \"ray of hope\" that Luke ever has in the form of a real future. The book portrays quite many human emotions and reveals a lot about our relationships. It borderlines on the topic of paradox of human choices but does not go very deep. Grisham is believed to be as good a storyteller as US has in the recent times and I do not beg to differ. As good as his legal thrillers are, this book has been written with equal brilliance and his style is just as easily distinguished. Even though the story of a simple farmer boy with dreams of playing for the Cardinals when he grows up, the book never just drags on. The choice of words is interesting (specially where he tells us that his hometown Black Oak, \"was too small to be divided''-- an interesting phrase to choose!) and keeps you turning pages after pages. When you've finished the entire book, it's then that you realize how touching the title actually is. It touches you because you realize the value the not so big now a little less than entirely-painted house- holds to Luke. He might've been coy in completing the task but he's took great pride in it for it was the first time in 50 years that their house was painted. And he did it. Although the project was started by someone else but it ultimately fell on his shoulders to complete the project and it was an achievement of remark that he was almost able to finish it all. When you look at it that way, the title falls in line perfectly with the essence of the story. ...more I loved this book! Told through the eyes of a very wise seven year old boy (who realistically should have been more like 10 or 11 -- he's too mature and thoughtful for seven, I think), this is the story of one fall cotton harvest season in 1952 Arkansas. The motley cast of characters include \"hill people\" and Mexican migrant workers, who come to help with the cotton harvest, the multi-generational Chandler family, who live on and are renting the farmland, and other local families. Grisham's char I loved this book! Told through the eyes of a very wise seven year old boy (who realistically should have been more like 10 or 11 -- he's too mature and thoughtful for seven, I think), this is the story of one fall cotton harvest season in 1952 Arkansas. The motley cast of characters include \"hill people\" and Mexican migrant workers, who come to help with the cotton harvest, the multi-generational Chandler family, who live on and are renting the farmland, and other local families. Grisham's characters and settings vividly leap from the page. You can almost hear the baseball games broadcast nightly on the Chandler's scratchy radio. But the real theme of the book revolves around secrets -- secrets involving illicit love and even murder. Luke, the aforementioned seven year old, seems to be privy to all the secrets -- a large burden for such a young boy to bear. Throughout the cotton-picking season, his \"Pappy's\" house slowly gets painted (but by whom?), giving the book its title. This is no typical Grisham novel as there's not a lawyer or courtroom in sight, but the colorful characters, clean prose, and brilliantly painted scenes make this one of my favorite books ever. Did not want it to end! ...more Set in 1952 Arkansas A Painted House is the story of a harvest time on a poor cotton farm through the eyes of a seven year old boy. Whilst this may sound boring, the two dead bodies, peeping tom activities, illegitimate babies and nature's proclivity to fight man's will gives plenty of material to keep you drawn in and turning the pages. That's without considering the picturesque painting of 1950s farming life that flows from the pages, a time when there wasn't a tv and phone in the farmhouse, a Set in 1952 Arkansas A Painted House is the story of a harvest time on a poor cotton farm through the eyes of a seven year old boy. Whilst this may sound boring, the two dead bodies, peeping tom activities, illegitimate babies and nature's proclivity to fight man's will gives plenty of material to keep you drawn in and turning the pages. That's without considering the picturesque painting of 1950s farming life that flows from the pages, a time when there wasn't a tv and phone in the farmhouse, a time when a bad harvest meant you only ate what you could grow. Very entertaining and interesting book. Oh, and a house gets some paint on it. ...more Found this in the lobby of a hotel in South Africa, and only read it because it was the only English book there (it was a hotel that catered to the Dutch, who LOOOVE South Africa.) The book is okay, but I probably wouldn't have stuck with it if I had other books to choose from. It's pretty long without much of a storyline.", "Title": "A Painted House"},
