{"Comments": "Vollmann\u2019s language is rich and strawberry cream creamy,<---M> language that</---M>, without too much ado, could be transcribed into T.S. Elliot-style poetry, since his themes hit on damaged humanity, the power of history and fragmentation, and that\u2019s fragmentation as in Dada, as in Hannah H\u00f6ch and John Heartfield photomontage, a form of art Adolf Hitler especially despised. And with this quote from Mein Kampf \u201cI go the way that Providence dictates, with the assurance of a sleepwalker.\" the novel repeatedly Vollmann\u2019s language is rich and strawberry cream creamy, language that, without too much ado, could be transcribed into T.S. Elliot-style poetry, since his themes hit on damaged humanity, the power of history and fragmentation, and that\u2019s fragmentation as in Dada, as in Hannah H\u00f6ch and John Heartfield photomontage, a form of art Adolf Hitler especially despised. And with this quote from Mein Kampf \u201cI go the way that Providence dictates, with the assurance of a sleepwalker.\" the novel repeatedly refers to Hitler as the sleepwalker. I particularly enjoy the author\u2019s vivid image of those old black rotary telephones having ten eyes, \u201cthat octopus whose ten round eyes, each inscribed with a number, glare through you at the world.\u201d and then linking the telephone with sleepwalker Hitler: \u201cThe sleepwalker in the Reich Chancellery could tell you (<---B>not that he would</---B>) they\u2019re his eyes, lidless, oval, which imparts to them a monotonously idiotic or hysterical appearance . . . \u201c. It\u2019s that fluid yet deadly interplay of objects with the human, as if Hitler is so omnipresent he is looking at all Nazis under his command as well as the entire population of Europe through the ten eyes of each and every black telephone, 1930s-1940s ubiquitous device par excellence. \u201cThe sleepwalker\u2019s all eyes\u201d And in terms of using his eyes, let's not forget Hitler spent many years dedicated to the visual arts, drawing and painting as a near-starving artist in Vienna. Reading the first section Steel in Motion I catch initial glimpses of the novel\u2019s stunning historical references, for example: \u201cBarrage balloons swim in the air, finned and fat like children\u2019s renderings.\u201d Bulls-eye, WTV! Perfect simile; that\u2019s exactly what those barrage balloons looked like, balloon used by the British to defend against air attacks \u2013 the cables holding up the balloon would damage enemy aircraft. \u201cSteel imbued with the sleepwalker\u2019s magic sight, illuminates itself as it comes murdering.\" Again, <+++>Europe Central</+++> shares much with the photomontage of artists like Hannah H\u00f6ch and John Heartfield, a steely emphasis on the intertwining of humans with technologies, for example, another image of the octopus-telephone: \u201cFrom the anus-mouth behind the dial.\u201d Vollmann soaks the black gadget for all its worth, telephone as the eyes and anus of Hitler. Yet again, another striking quote: \u201cDon\u2019t trust any technicians who assure you that this brain is \u201cneutral\u201d \u2013 soon you\u2019ll hear how angrily the receiver jitters in its cradle.\u201d The author picks up on Marshall McLuhan -- the media is the message. It\u2019s as if in <+++>Europe Central</+++> the gadgets and all that steel exude a life of their own and are manipulating humans as their flesh-and-blood pawns. \u201cBehind the wall, rubberized black tentacles spread across Europe.\u201d Ominous, ominous \u2013 20th century technology as the strangling octopus, throttling, choking, crushing humans as if a school of helpless little fish in an ocean of unforgiving tentacles. Then, in the section entitled The Saviors: A Kabbalistic Tale , the author uses Aristotelian compare and contrast in presenting Fanya Kaplan with N.K.Krupskaya,, two women who saw themselves as good Marxist comrades marching shoulder to shoulder with other like-minded comrades toward the land of final synthesis as in Hegel-turned-on-his-head thesis-antithesis-synthesis. And age 28 special for both Ks, Kaplan and Krupskaya, since Krupskaya at age 28 married Lenin and Kaplan at age 28 shot him. And each woman, as per vintage photos, were stunning as a 20-year-old, but, oh my goodness, did women age quickly back then, especially when sent to prison or Siberia for years of hard labor. N.K.Krupskaya - At age 28 she married Lenin Fanya Kaplan - At age 28 she shot Lenin Anyway, Vollmann packs in historical facts and lyrical images as if he were stuffing 25 pounds of potatoes into a 10 pound sack, for example, we read the following of the last 4 days in Fanya Kaplan\u2019s life after she shot Lenin: \u201ca huddle of twenty-four grey subterranean hours like orphaned mice; and in the flesh of every hour a swarm of useless moments like ants whose queen has perished; and within each moment an uncountable multitude of instants resembling starpointed syllables shaken out of words.\u201c If you were counting, that\u2019s three tightly packed in similes. I read a Paris Review interview where Vollmann relates how at one time in his life he was writing 16 hours a day. Now that\u2019s a writer on fire! . . . and perhaps on cocaine, speed, or, at least, caffeine. For the narrator of Europe Central , people stand tall like a certain letter of the alphabet, ideas glow like a letter, words hum like a letter, which reminds me of that Georges Perec quote: \u201cIs the aleph that place in Borges from which the entire world is visible simultaneously, anything other than an alphabet?\u201d And these Europe Central times are times for men and women of action, as in the action-packed words of Comrade N. V. Krylenko \u201cWe must execute not only the guilty. Execution of the innocent will impress the masses even more.\u201d Ironically, Comrade Krylenko would himself be shot \u2013 I wonder if the masses were impressed. However, nobody could ever doubt Comrade Krylenko was a revolutionary who took his revolution seriously. And equally ironic, through all the revolutionary slaughter, one of N. K. Krepskaya\u2019s very favorite books was Louisa May Alcott\u2019s Little Women .<---F> And there\u2019s a scene of N</---F>. K. Krepskaya meeting Fanya Kaplan in a prison cell that provides a stroke of Latin American-style magical realism: \"Then the letters disappeared into the woman's mouth. Krupskaya was speechless. The woman began to glow more and more, until the light from her was as white and pure as a page of the Torah.\" One of my favorite parts of the novel is all the references to Dimitri Shostakovich and his music. For example: \u201cBest listened to in a windowless room, better than best an airless room \u2013 correctly speaking a bunker sealed forever and enwrapped in tree-roots \u2013 the Eighth String Quartet of Shostakovich (Opus 110) is the living corpse of music, perfect in its horror. Call it the simultaneous asphyxiation and bleeding of melody.\u201d To gain a keener insight and feeling for this novel, I listened to this and other Shostakovich string quartets repeatedly during my reading. All in all, a great novel, but I must say not a novel exactly to my taste since I found, for one thing, the shifting first-person narrator (who, at points, could be the voice of the entire continent of Europe) at a huge emotional distance from the other characters. I contrast this with another 800 page novel set in Europe and Russia during WWII: The Kindly Ones by Jonathan Littell, a novel where the first-person narrator was a member of the Nazi SS. The evil of Littell's novel is so real, so immediate, so powerful, I had to listen to the audiobook while taking my walks and let the evil run down my legs and out the bottom of my feet. Europe Central is an encyclopedic literary monument to an incredible time in 20th century European history but, for me, Vollmann\u2019s novel lacks the power of Littell\u2019s. <---A>William T. Vollmann</---A> ...more (Thank You, Bill, for Another) God Almighty Tome [An Interpolation Upon an Enquiry by Steven Moore] Now it\u2019s for sale, Don\u2019t be deterred. This thousand-page, Half-million-word War effort had To be contrived In breath-taking, Large scale detail, So it could be Desired as A maximal Unholy grail. We college grads And desk-bound males Now type away Inside the whale, So that we can All adulate The moral scope Of Vollmann's tale. Hence, we honour Its mighty length, And shower it With lavish praise. A Novel Calculus \"Europ (Thank You, Bill, for Another) God Almighty Tome [An Interpolation Upon an Enquiry by Steven Moore] Now it\u2019s for sale, Don\u2019t be deterred. This thousand-page, Half-million-word War effort had To be contrived In breath-taking, Large scale detail, So it could be Desired as A maximal Unholy grail. We college grads And desk-bound males Now type away Inside the whale, So that we can All adulate The moral scope Of Vollmann's tale. Hence, we honour Its mighty length, And shower it With lavish praise. A Novel Calculus \"Europe Central\" followed closely on the heels of \"Rising Up and Rising Down\", Vollmann's analysis of the moral calculus of violence. Part of the non-fiction work applied the calculus to the specific circumstances of several persons of interest. This novel, assuming that is a correct descriptor, takes real life people/participants and uses them to construct a narrative about real life events, most of which are the most pivotal events of the twentieth century. It is a huge and hugely ambitious creative and interpretative exercise, if not necessarily or strictly (only) an exercise in fiction. It has more in common with a documentary re-enactment than most literary fiction. Like a documentary, we might know some or all of the facts, what matters is how the issues are personalised and presented to us: \"I suppose that when one dedicates oneself sincerely enough to anything, one personalises it.\" You can think of this novel as a panoramic film in full technicolor. None of this is intended as a criticism. If there is any meaningful role for Post-Modernism, one would be to blur the distinction between fiction and reality. Fictionalised History The historical aspects of the novel are thoroughly researched by Vollmann and his assistants (shades of Andy Warhol?), and therefore presumably reliable, except where he identifies otherwise in the notes and comments, or where he allows himself the freedom of historical or moral judgement. You don't need to have much or any prior knowledge of the events portrayed in the novel to appreciate their significance or the writing. Vollmann places us in the heart of the relevant action. All we have to respect is the importance of these events in world history. If there ever comes a time when their primacy fades, may the gods help civilisation on earth. That said, in the fictional aspects of the reconstruction, Vollmann can't help but inject a few of his own preoccupations (against the historical evidence), and it is here that the novel is weakest and occasionally most gratuitous, but more of that later. It is a relatively minor personal gripe, and one that didn't ultimately detract from my enjoyment of the novel. Doppelg\u00e4nger States (Non-Fraternal, Non-Identical Twins) The narrative structure of \"Europe Central\" explores a parallelism between World War II Germany and the Soviet Union. Pretty soon, you realise that there is little difference in the social and personal dynamics in each nation, despite their vastly different\u00a0socio-political systems. Ultimately, they are both \"well-ordered zones\". Centralised power works the same way everywhere. (Vollmann recognises that this point has already been made by Vassily Grossman in his novel, \"Life and Fate\". ) Hitler/Stalin wield absolute power, with limited input by those around them. Nobody is prepared to question or contradict them, for fear of reprisal, and reprisal means death. In the case of Germany: \"Fate has sent Germany a great genius: Adolf Hitler. We must obey his will.\" In the case of Stalin: \"It's not enough to love Soviet power. Soviet power must also love you.\" Hitler/Stalin take ultimate responsibility for everything. Vision, strategy, tactics, execution. Especially execution. Gargantuan and Panzercruel Struggle Once Hitler revoked the Non-Aggression Pact in June, 1941, Germany and the Soviet Union were destined to fight to the death, if not with the assistance of allies, then alone. The success of one state and political system would inevitably mean the extinguishment of the other. Germany had conquered most of continental Europe. Britain was under attack. The United States had not entered the war. Churchill was reluctant to start a new western front on the continent, forcing Stalin to fight off Hitler without support. If Germany had prevailed, it would have meant the end of Communism. However, if the Soviet Union could prevail, it would mean the end of Fascism. The Anglo-American nations thought they could sit back and wait for the result. Capitalism Tries to Crash the Party Only when Stalin got the upper hand at Stalingrad and started the march to Berlin did the Allies realise that they would lose Europe to Soviet Communism, if they didn't initiate Operation Overlord at Normandy: \"[The Soviets] have a Motherland and [the Germans] have a Fatherland. Their child is Europe Central.\" Communism in Europe would have meant the loss of a market for Anglo-American goods and services on the continent. Normandy occurred only when it became necessary to protect capitalist interests. Thus, Normandy wasn't primarily one part of a two-pronged attack on Germany, but a preemptive attempt to avoid the global revolution that might have resulted from the successful self-defence of the Soviet Union. Firelit Rapture Vollmann personalises the moral issues by focussing on the lives and dilemmas of a number of key players on both sides of the ideological divide. Ironically, both Fascism and Communism purported to usher in a new cultural era, one which, in the words of Heidegger, would require the old to be burned in order to make way for the new. The Volk, the People, the Proletariat looked on in \"firelit rapture\". Vollmann explains the moral purpose of the novel in terms of parable: \"These stories are not as rigorously grounded in historical fact as my 'Seven Dreams' books. Rather, the goal here was to write a series of parables about famous, infamous and anonymous European moral actors at moments of decision.\" Some of the protagonists are military, others are creative (musicians, sculptors, poets and translators). Under both ideologies, individual freedom is compromised, ostensibly in the interests of the collective. This might be understandable in the context of the war effort or attempts to defend against a civil war or rebuff a counter-revolution. However, arguably, it would not be tolerable in a modern western pluralistic democracy during a time of peace. Answering the Call Vollmann uses the black-cabled tentacles of the cephalopodic telephone network not just as a vehicle for communication, but as a symbol of the centralisation of political culture and the enforcement of social conformity. Totalitarianism emphasises collective duty at the expense of personal liberty. Vollmann speculates that people start to content themselves with the role of servant rather than aspiring to be their own master: \"To regard the fulfillment of duty rather than personal responsibility as the highest virtue, indicates a primal need for yielding oneself up.\" In the armed forces, there are command structures that ensure that obedience to authority occurs (subject now to the rejection of the Nuremberg defence). Civilians are safe as long as they keep their head down and don't transgress. However, intellectuals and artists are the most problematical. They tend to be individualistic and non-conformist. Vollmann shows us two cultures and contexts in which individualists must bow to the collective, or face dire consequences. Thus, we see Socialist Realism being imposed in the Soviet Union, while in Germany, we see the Nazis attacking Degenerate Art. At least in wartime, outliers are pulled back into the herd. Those who won't or don't comply are ostracised, abandoned, exiled and/or liquidated. Shostakovich's Threat to Cultural Harmony Representative of the creative dilemma is the composer Shostakovich. In the absence of words, you would think that music would be harder to judge in terms of ideological conformity. However, Shostakovich's formal innovation sees him described as a selfish and anti-democratic individualist, a free spirit, a formalist, a revisionist, a right-wing deviationist: \"This gets to the root of what makes intellectuals dangerous. We use them to add newness to life, which is what keeps it bearable, but newness shouldn't mutate into utter alienation...\" Despite his popularity with the public, Shostakovich becomes alienated from authority. He fails to toe the Party line. He is seen as preoccupied with the \"expression of self\". His compositions are out of harmony with the remainder of the Party-credentialled fraternity. His works are doubly dissonant and disharmonious. Whistle Blower to the Holocaust One of the German parallels to Shostakovich is the SS officer Kurt Gerstein, a technician who leaks to the Church and the Swiss Consul evidence of the methods of the Holocaust that he is partly responsible for administering. It's not disclosed just how much reliable intelligence the West acquired about the Holocaust before the end of the War. Whatever, the West took no credible action. Gerstein's whistle-blowing attempts weren't appreciated and, tragically for him, did not avoid the death penalty being imposed on him by the Allies. Imaginary Love Triangles Perhaps Vollmann's greatest creative contribution to the historical narrative is his extrapolation of the sex lives of several of the protagonists. In most cases, he acknowledges that his speculation is pure fiction. Indeed, he posits that the key emotional and sexual relationship between Shostakovich and Elena continued throughout the rest of their lives, notwithstanding common ground that it lasted only for a short period relatively early in their lives. Despite the amount of space devoted to Shostakovich, I think Elena is the pre-eminent character of the novel. In many ways, \"Europe Central\" is the story of a woman, if not the women of Europe. Europa ist Elena \u00fcberhaupt. She is one third of two separate love triangles, one a heterosexual relationship with two males and, the other, a lesbian relationship with two women. Vollmann's women occupy numerous roles: they oscillate between Joan of Arc, virgin, whore, artist, activist, translator, partisan, judge and executioner: \"Do you ever feel that there's a woman somewhere at the centre of things, a goddess?\" Men are trapped in their world of power and aggression. Vollmann represents women as some kind of way out, a pathway to individual authenticity. His design for the novel might even be similar to Shostakovich's perception of his music: \"It's about...how love could have been if the world weren't full of vile things...I sometimes feel that my love for her is the only thing that's genuine about me.\" Love and Death This exploration of love as well as tenderness balances the overwhelming detail about the war in the novel. However, it also contributes a more nuanced tone to Vollmann's normal subject matter and style. Of course, Vollmann being Vollmann, he occasionally goes overboard in how he deals with the sexual subject matter. At times, it just seemed to be gratuitous. For example, I couldn't work out how quite explicit private acts between the protagonists could be related by the voyeuristic agent, Comrade Alexandrov, even though, as far as I could determine, he can't possibly have witnessed them. (I assume he wasn't just sexing up the security files!) Still, my concerns about this aspect of the writing didn't detract from the substance of the novel, my enjoyment of it or a sense that it deserved both the National Book Award and five stars. Don't let the war setting or the length of the novel deter you. This is one of the great novels about the twentieth century. ADDED EXTRAS: Abandoned Draft First Paragraph Even then there was something about the nameless Asian girl Ah Kum Elena which rendered her an object of respect obsessive desire. A young girl with jet-black reddish-blonde bangs, it was she who returned his wallet manhood to him. In the hallway of their apartment building, he kissed her cheeks lips nipples. He wanted to tell her that her earlobes breasts were as white and sweet as saccharin Viasma gingerbread. Minutes later, in her bedroom, his manhood love, agony, and strangely erotic pain detonated inside her him. Something came alive in the next room. It was her the squat black mother phone squid octopus. The god of the Signal Corps\u2026 Tischfernsprecher, Schwarzes Bakelitgeh\u00e4use [Apologies to Van Morrison] William, we were down On our knees, in the days Before rock and roll. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a2GpE... Treaty of Versailles A vindictive peace Makes for an even worse war The next time around. Iron Grip The dictator of A state under siege grips it Like a drowning man. Soldier with a Camera One can represent Us all, just as well as the Whole contains the one. Lust in Translation You mustn't Desist, For I insist That you'll be- Witched, By this Funny Cunni- Linguistic Tryst Betwixt Lina and Elena. Gender Central [Vera, Lina, Nina, Elena] Europe is woman, Delicious as gingerbread, Just like Elena. Zoya Russia was Zoya. Between the breasts of Zoya, It won its freedom. Post-Modern Self-Assessment by the Author You besmirch yourself With ugly behavior, then Speak beautiful words. Exegesis Basic format Nice example Of quotation Followed by an Explanation Leading to some Excitation And a starry Incantation Rounded off with Annotation Footnote endnote Ibid op cit Und so weiter. Bill Vollmann Interviewed by Tony Dushane for Bookslut \"You know in 'Europe Central' it\u2019s too easy just to say, 'Oh, the Nazis were terrible, the Stalinists were awful.' And that\u2019s true, but where do you go from there? If you can realize the deeper truth, which is not only that were they terrible, but if I were born in that time and place, I probably would\u2019ve been one. And even if I resisted with all my being, I would still have characteristics of one, no matter what I did.\" http://www.bookslut.com/features/2005... Fanya Kapl\u00e1n's attempt to assassin Lenin on August 30, 1918 I https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dIfl1... Fanny was executed without trial on September 3, 1918. Fanya Kapl\u00e1n's attempt to assassin Lenin II https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tDpiX... Created by 1.618 Films at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2007 Fanya Kapl\u00e1n's attempt to assassin Lenin III https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9eiNP... German anti-war artist K\u00e4the Kollwitz http://dearkitty1.wordpress.com/2014/... The Execution of Zoya Vollmann (or his grubby, voyeuristic amanuensis, Comrade Alexandrov) describes this photo of Zoya after her hanging as \"one which presents to us her naked corpse in the snow, her head arched back as if in sexual ecstasy...\" SOUNDTRACK: Keith Jarrett - \"Prelude and Fugue No 7 in A major\" (Dmitri Shostakovich) https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=bE_OeCL... ...more \"The majority of my symphonies are tombstones.\" \u2015 Dmitry Shostakovich in William T. Vollmann, Europe Central \"We have a Motherland and they have a Fatherland. Their child is Europe Central.\" \u2015 William T. Vollmann, Europe Central This book, THIS book. This book reminds me of some mad Nazi experiment (or Soviet torture) grafting the madness of Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow and the darkness of Littell's The Kindly Ones . From the first chapter it grabs you grotesquely by the balls and just won't let go. \"The majority of my symphonies are tombstones.\" \u2015 Dmitry Shostakovich in William T. Vollmann, Europe Central \"We have a Motherland and they have a Fatherland. Their child is Europe Central.\" \u2015 William T. Vollmann, Europe Central This book, THIS book. This book reminds me of some mad Nazi experiment (or Soviet torture) grafting the madness of Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow and the darkness of Littell's The Kindly Ones . From the first chapter it grabs you grotesquely by the balls and just won't let go. Vollmann wants to hear you scream and then wants to write the score of your scream, the ghost notes of your warped night tremors. The spine, the backbone, of this novel is woven the life/stories/stutters of Dmitry Shostakovich (yes THAT Shostakovich) writing his opus of lust, his opus of war, his opus of death. Fighting, passively, always passively against the crushing weight of Soviet oppression. The more the institution would grind on him, push him down, the more his art would squirt out. Art finds a way. There is the love triangle between Shostakovich and Elena Konstantinovskaya and Roman Karmen. This is Vollmann bending history to fit his novel. He isn't trying for close. He isn't aiming for clarity. He is composing with this novel. He is grooving. The way I floated with this novel was to imagine it as a giant expressionist painting with Shostakovich in the center (or perhaps, a symphony or musical development ? Others have said yes, so I'd recommending reading their reviews if you prefer a symphony to an expressionist painting). It is full of demons and parables. Full of Totenkopfverb\u00e4ndes decorated with rubies, snow, skeletons, zombies, bombs and planes. There are mass graves and one can get quickly lost in death and the cold. There is a certain direction, only because time and history both have a direction, to the painting. It is scrolling left to right. But reading Vollmann is not a journey of art. It is a dream, a nightmare. It is a primal scream trying to clear out the cobwebs of the 20th century. It is Hieronymus Bosch's Purgatory, Hell, and all three panels of the triptych Garden of Earthly Delights sewn together with teeth, hair, and cobwebs and repainted by a German Expressionist or Soviet \"nonconformist\" artist. 'Europe Central' isn't history, but history isn't history. When so many people were killed, buried, burned -- we lose all sense of identity and truth. In Central Europe/Europe Central during that period right before, during, and after WWII myth seems almost as appropriate as any official history. The demons that whistle to you at night are just as convincing as the frozen chickens of day. Again, I'm trying to wrap my head around it all. It is crazy. I am crazy. Two of the quotes from the book that helped me the most were: \"According to the Great Soviet Encyclopedia, our planet's most pronounced topographical features compromise an approximate mirror image of the crust's underside. The steppes of the Ukraine thus roof the crating platforms which replicates them, while the Ural Mountains not only project into the sky, but in equal measure stab down like gabblers trained upon the magma on which our contest uneasily slither. To me, the thought that this world is doubled within its own red, liquid hell is a profoundly unnerving one. Chaos seethes beneath my feet\" (page 694). \u201cMost literary critics agree that fiction cannot be reduced to mere falsehood. Well-crafted protagonists come to life, pornography causes orgasms, and the pretense that life is what we want it to be may conceivably bring about the desired condition. Hence religious parables, socialist realism, Nazi propaganda. And if this story likewise crawls with reactionary supernaturalism, that might be because its author longs to see letters scuttling across ceilings, cautiously beginning to reify themselves into angels. For if they could only do that, then why not us?\u201d (27). I will end this now, before I get swallowed up again by Vollmann's Airlift Idylls and Steel in Motion one more time and fail to find my way to the surface again. ...more 4.5/5 If you have no interest at all in learning massive amounts about World War II, this book is not for you. As a matter of fact, if you are not in the mood for facts and quotations and references galore packaged in a semi short story fashion, refer to the previous statement. However, if you are alright with that sort of thing, you are in for a treat. I will admit, I panicked a little bit once I realized how jam packed this book is with historical trivia. As if that wasn't intimidating enough, t 4.5/5 If you have no interest at all in learning massive amounts about World War II, this book is not for you. As a matter of fact, if you are not in the mood for facts and quotations and references galore packaged in a semi short story fashion, refer to the previous statement. However, if you are alright with that sort of thing, you are in for a treat. I will admit, I panicked a little bit once I realized how jam packed this book is with historical trivia. As if that wasn't intimidating enough, the writing loves its metaphors and imagery, and often descends into extended fantastical meanderings. Lots of eagles and octupuses and letters formed in physical settings. It was definitely overwhelming at the beginning, and contributed to the lengthy amount of time I took to finish the book. What helped me get my bearings and start to enjoy the book was the decision to interpret the phantasmagoric quality to the writing as the author's effort to convey just how crazy this time was. I have no idea if that's what the author intended, but it seemed to work. In fact, a prime example of this is the map insert at the beginning, which consists of an outline of Europe covered in names of military operations, as well as nearly nonsensical warlike doodles. The further you get in the book, the more ridiculously brutal the events become, especially during the parts concerning Shostakovich. He of all the characters most clearly comprehends the menace that surrounds everyone, but more importantly he understands that despite objections to the contrary, none of it makes any sense . And it never will. Throughout the book, there are a number of characters whose morals are challenged, who are forced into compromising situations and decisions by the murderous chaos surrounding them. Some of them, like the Berlin sleepwalker, are thought by many to have a hand in the chaos, but they are in truth just as trapped by historical events as the rest of them. The only difference is their position, and how willing they are to disengage from reality in order to do what needs to be done. If this doesn't makes sense, to those who wish to know, the sleepwalker is (view spoiler) [Hitler (hide spoiler) ] . And as previously mentioned, there is little to no rhyme or reason to why these people need to go through these trials. It just is. Personally, I found the learning experience amazing, as I had known nothing about the SS officer who had persistently worked against the machinations of the concentration camps, or that there was a female lawyer known as the 'Red Guillotine' who condemned many to death in the name of the workers of the USSR. Generals switch from Russia to Germany and back again, and the fighters below them march on into oblivion. And of course there was the monumental focus on Shostakovich, whose romantic obsession may not have been nearly as strong as the book made it out to be, but whose experiences under Stalin and the Soviet Republic can't be denied. Not only was the author thorough in writing all these people in, he also had a real talent at conveying that deep feeling of resignation of wartime; it's the one that sinks deep into the bones and leaves one viewing flowers in the snow and corpses in the street as one and the same. A brilliant example of this is the Shostakovich's Opus 110, which is described as containing the screams of women and the moans of rockets, along with a whole host of other unearthly cries and shrieks that only war and its sufferings can bring to life. Now that I've finished the book, I'm strongly reminded of The Kindly Ones ; both are stories that use unconventional descriptive prose to talk about morally objectionable and unimaginably violent subjects. In fact, people who had trouble with getting past the brutal parts in The Kindly Ones may have better luck with this book, although as previously mentioned, there are gigantic amounts of historical references. Again, if that's your sort of thing, go for it. You won't be disappointed. PS: There was very little mention of the US, and what little there was was coupled with either contempt or hatred. Somewhat refreshing in an odd sense. ...more Recommended for: Vollmanniacs, music & history lovers. \" The majority of my symphonies are tombstones.\" D. D. Shostakovich Europe Central is Vollmann's imaginative take on 20th century's twin evils of Stalinism & Nazism as witnessed during the horrific years of the second world war. A book that wraps itself in Kabbalah mysticism, Germanic myths & legends; is not your 'typical' history book \u2013 for starters, you don't get to hate Hitler! Most people will stop reading after the chapter Recommended for: Vollmanniacs, music & history lovers. \" The majority of my symphonies are tombstones.\" D. D. Shostakovich Europe Central is Vollmann's imaginative take on 20th century's twin evils of Stalinism & Nazism as witnessed during the horrific years of the second world war. A book that wraps itself in Kabbalah mysticism, Germanic myths & legends; is not your 'typical' history book \u2013 for starters, you don't get to hate Hitler! Most people will stop reading after the chapter Opus 40, wondering, is this about the war or musical themes! Brace yourself, there's also full dissection of Shostakovich's Eleventh Symphony & it all makes thematic sense cause this is a book where war sometimes is presented in musical terms & music in martial ones \u2013 Hitler after all, presents himself as a Wagnerian hero & the final evocation of Opus 110 brings into sharp focus, perhaps the main thesis, that in a repressive, brutal, totalitarian regime; Art maybe shaped & defined by the circumstances but ultimately great art transcends it & thus, while dictators like Stalin & Hitler, have rightly been consigned to the dustbins of history, Shostakovich's music lives on! Europe Central will give readers a new understanding into this genius composer's work & to me that's the single, biggest achievement of this book. The narrative gives broad brush strokes of general state of affairs in both USSR & Germany & then zooms in on key personages to highlight those concerns \u2014 so you get German Jewish artist K\u00e4the Kollwitz whose work is exploited by the communists for propaganda purpose, poetess Anna Akhmatova: \"...an aloof mannequin. That was how we liked her! Unfortunately, her presence electrified any crowd. To me, this proves that we hadn't been sufficiently strict with her. An aloof mannequin she might have been, as still as water under ice, but our task was to freeze her solid, in this we never succeeded: after all, Akhmatova was the poet of \"Requiem\" ...which I'm sorry to say I've heard on the lips of students, prisoners, prostitutes, peasants and kerchiefed factory women,\" and of course Shostakovich, whom the Soviet State willy-nilly made toe the official line but whose work remained subversive for those who had \"the ears to hear it!\". Think of the condition of dissidents in China & the situation in Syria & you'll get a faint idea of what life under Soviet communism and German fascism could be like! Almost makes one grateful for democracy! There's a wealth of war trivia & details to warm the heart of any student of military science but what's remarkable is the presentation of it \u2014 juxtaposes the war narratives of both sides & lets the readers see how similar General Vlasov & Field Marshal Paulus' moral predicaments are \u2014 their ill-clad, ill-equipped, starving men dying because their megalomaniac leaders won't allow a retreat! \"In olden times, wars were waged by heroes who admired one another but found themselves forced by fate or blood revenge to do each other harm. In our time, we fought for hateful ogres against other ogres equally hateful. From a practical point of view, can't it be argued that nothing has changed?\" Balance Stalin's 'Great Purge,' the 'Red Terror,' his Siberian retreats called the 'Gulags,' his NKVD orchestrated sudden 'disappearance' of members of intelligentsia in Black Marias, the mass graves, Collectivization \u2013 against Hitler's sleepwalking an entire generation of Germans into the abyss of madness, the 'Final Solution'\u2014 and it's hard to say who's the bigger monster \u2013 the writer rightly lets History judge them.* As he says in his bookslut interview** : \"You know in Europe Central it\u2019s too easy just to say, \"Oh, the Nazis were terrible, the Stalinists were awful.\" And that\u2019s true, but where do you go from there? If you can realize the deeper truth, which is not only that were they terrible but if I were born in that time and place, I probably would\u2019ve been one. And even if I resisted with all my being, I would still have characteristics of one, no matter what I did.(...) So if you were born in the third Reich, and all you ever heard was that Germany was the greatest and the Jews were very dangerous and poisonous and Slavs were inferior and this and that, maybe you could, if you were really compassionate and brave, throw some of that off. But deep down, you would probably still feel somewhat good about Germany. You know you would still think, oh Germany is a really progressive place and probably the rest of the world is a little primitive. That\u2019s probably the best you could do.\" Vollmann's narrative choice here is very interesting \u2014 sometimes impressionistic, sometimes surreal, the narratives overlap \u2013 the Russian narrator Comrade Alexandrov reminded me of the intelligence guy in Lives of Others (do watch it), but the German narrator was the tricky one - a shape shifter, a myth, a ghost, a Pynchonesque figure (yes there's a rocket!)\u2014 the narration altered so seamlessly from one to the other that you don't realize when it turned omniscient & when dear Mr.Vollmann chipped in! Any book on literary fiction, worth its salt, would tell you to pay attention to what comes in the middle, the heart of a book, so to speak\u2014 the Holocaust comes in the middle in EC \u2014 but Vollmann doesn't go for your tear ducts, there's no sensationalising or cheapening of this tragedy \u2014 a few brutal sentences, here & there, & you get the picture. This is my first Vollmann. Two of my fav writers\u2014 Graham Greene & Joseph Conrad are hugely political but whereas Greene's world weariness is relieved by his humour, Conrad's dominated by his moral vision \u2014 I don't remember laughing while reading Europe Central, maybe a chuckle here & there but that's about it \u2014 Vollmann is so deadly earnest & he refuses to judge even though EC was written as \"a series of parables about famous, infamous and anonymous European moral actors at moments of decision.\" Also don't get me started about the 'repetitions' -- after a while, I stopped counting the line \"Elena, you're lucky you didn't marry me.\"! ( Maybe he used it as a leitmotif).Vollmann turned Shostakovich into such a neurotic, that at times I wondered if I was reading about Woody Allen! The second half of the book runs at breakneck speed covering too much ground \u2013 the division of Germany, political reprisals in East Germany, the Iron Curtain, the Berlin Wall, & ending with the start of the Cold War \u2013 it's a huge canvas! Give this book proper time & attention. If I've to recommend it to someone, I'd ask them to read the five- paged Zoya chapter or the 50 pages Kurt Gerstein one called Clean Hands. In fact, there are so many powerful chapters here \u2013 the last two chapters, Lost Victories ( the loser's need for postmortem) & The White Nights of Leningrad ( where Vollmann the artist takes over, it's so visually stunning!), remain in the mind long after the book is closed. My interest in Vollmann was piqued when I read in an article that he made DFW insecure & that the latter envied his prolific output - Wallace was constrained by his agoraphobia whereas Vollmann has always gone to the source of his inspiration \u2013 the Arctic, the druggies, the prostitutes. May the wellspring of his inspiration never run dry! And now your reward for reading this loooong review: Feast your eyes on the chthonic heavenly visage of WTV! Links for Europe Central: NYT review: http://www.nytimes.com/2005/04/03/boo... (**) Bookslut interview: http://bookslut.com/features/2005_11_... Empathy for the Devil: More Tender But No Less Ambitious, William T. Vollmann Opens a New Chapter in His Already Prolific Career With Europe Central | Baltimore City Paper: http://www2.citypaper.com/arts/story.... Featured Author series on NYT: William T. Vollman- The New York Times Book Review Contains discussion of most of his books: A must read. http://www.nytimes.com/indexes/2004/0... WTV's profile on NYT http://www.nytimes.com/1994/02/06/boo... ( *) \"The moral equation of Stalinism with Hitlerism is nothing new. V. Grossman made that best in his novel Life and Fate. Here it's merely a point of departure.\" From Vollmann's notes on EC. ...more \u201dAll magic spells fail without belief. We enforced belief.\u201d ~~ Europe Central is another monstrous book from Vollmann; monstrous in size, content, language, implications, critique of humanity, world-historical analysis. Let\u2019s get something out of the way at the outset: This book is a masterpiece (horrifying, painfully beautiful, profound); if you\u2019re a writer you wish you could have written this; and no one could have written this book in these early years of the 21st century except Vollmann. In ma \u201dAll magic spells fail without belief. We enforced belief.\u201d ~~ Europe Central is another monstrous book from Vollmann; monstrous in size, content, language, implications, critique of humanity, world-historical analysis. Let\u2019s get something out of the way at the outset: This book is a masterpiece (horrifying, painfully beautiful, profound); if you\u2019re a writer you wish you could have written this; and no one could have written this book in these early years of the 21st century except Vollmann. In many ways it contains everything Vollmann was working through in his career up to this point: The Seven Dreams are here, Rising Up and Rising Down is here, and most especially, You Bright and Risen Angels is here. (I was going to attempt an abstract that tried to situate EC as the missing second half of YBaRA , but that never came to fruition; it\u2019s not like I\u2019m getting paid for my time here; I\u2019ve got other concerns.) There was a recent discussion with a certain other Vollmanniac about \u201cearly\u201d, \u201cmiddle\u201d, and \u201clate\u201d Vollmann, if distinctions such as these need or could be made at this point, and the conclusion Vollmanniac #1 came to is that everything before The Ice-Shirt is \u201cearly\u201d Vollmann, and Imperial signified the beginning of \u201clate\u201d Vollmann- need I say that by definition everything in between would be considered \u201cmiddle\u201d? Well then, Europe Central , from 2005, can be seen as the node of transition out of \u201cmiddle\u201d and into \u201clate\u201d Vollmann. This thesis makes itself clear to me in the confidence, knife-edged clarity, control, precision, and (strange to say, in a book this massive and yes, excessive) economy of the language employed to tell the stories told here. Vollmann\u2019s prose in EC is absolutely mastered; not unwieldy, not frivolous; and for all the digressions into surrealistic imagery, impressionism, dreamlandscapes, worlds of the phantasmic dead, sexualized nightmare visions, hypnagogic fire-eaten rubble of war-wasted cities, this book feels absolutely (and appropriately) \u201ccomposed.\u201d One of the most interesting questions one should ask about Europe Central is just who is narrating this beast ? Comrade Alexandrov? The Stasi? A Dreamer of History? (And who might that be? A Sleepwalker? A Realist?) Shostakovich? Gerstein? Paulus? Vlasov? Hilde Benjamin, who is the Law? Totalitarian Ideology? Time-Unstuck Death, where all souls commingle and whisper? Are we watching one of Roman Karmen\u2019s films? All Of The Above? Reader of this review, I am asking you to help me answer this question... Modeling its form on Danilo Ki\u0161\u2019s A Tomb For Boris Davidovich (which, if you haven\u2019t read, please to be correcting that oversight posthaste), EC takes the structure of that book (interrelated bursts of prose explicating the gruesome hypocrisies and corrupted reality of life under totalitarianism and war, ranging in length from a few pages to the size of a healthy novella) and, as Vollmann tends to do, maximalizes it, expands that idea into infinity. (Oh! another candidate for narrator of EC : Infinity !) What we have then is a panoptic or panoramic view, episodic and thus epic, internal and external to these people who actually lived, told in and outside of their voices, filtered through a web of fear and ideological distortions (wait! another candidate for narrator: Fear-Warped Space-Time !) rooted in historical event ( \u201dThese stories are not as rigorously grounded in historical fact as my Seven Dreams books. Rather, the goal here was to write a series of parables about famous, infamous and anonymous European moral actors at moments of decision. Most of the characters in this book are real people. I researched details of their lives as carefully as I could. However, this is a work of fiction. Poetic justice has I hope been rendered, both to them and to their historical situations\u2026\u201d ) but ascending in widening gyres (like a V-Rocket!) and flame-blooming into that Greatest Fiction that acts as superstructure to all succeeding fictions: History. (And thus the enigmatic voice of EC , that shifting, slithering, metamorphosizing, never-static, all-static (dead end of a blown out telephone receiver) hissing demonic overtones, the dopplering voice of time collapsing into itself as it passes\u2026) Another candidate for narrator of EC : Moral Ambiguity in the Time of Terror! Or, what does \u201csurvival\u201d mean in a wolfhound age? We are shown all of these characters at moments of fatal choice, when their epoch had become a mass murderer, when ethics became a boot stamping on a human face forever, and they were, in various guises, taken before the door of the Law and told \u201cchoose or die.\u201d These were days when music became the wavering pitch of a bomb\u2019s descent and the atonal screaming of women and children burning. Years when there was no great distinction between ruins of blood and bone and charred buildings. This was a fairytale time when steel rivers began to creep throughout Europe, Russia, Africa and on eastward, spreading flame and desolation. How did this happen? When might this happen again? And what is it that makes human beings capable not only of composing beautiful books and paintings and symphonies, but also of composing air raids and gas chambers and flamethrowers and panzer divisions and the heaven-sent (weeping strains of the music of the spheres can still be heard) burning of Dresden or Guernica or Stalingrad? \u201dDresden is Europe Central, the walled kingdom in the middle of the past! Every day here begins once upon a time .\u201d The uniting thread of these stories might be: threnody. As sure as Shostakovich\u2019s unkillable heart was hiding in the body of a destroyed piano. Is he dead even today? We can hear the past in shards of music and fading photographs. Europe Central might be an opera, but its stage set is composed of the rubble of the real, and its orchestra is performing interpretations of songs that are best not lost or forgotten among the wreckage of History. ...more This is a rewarding read about the conflict between the regimes of Hitler and Stalin over the fate of Europe in World War 2 told from the perspective of a broad set of emblematic characters. As pointed out in the excellent review by Ian , Vollmann carries over in this novel his deep concerns with the moral calculus behind violence as explored in his non-fiction work preceding this, \u201cRising Up and Rising Down.\u201d The central characters and their major concerns include: --Dmitri Shastakovich, a Russia This is a rewarding read about the conflict between the regimes of Hitler and Stalin over the fate of Europe in World War 2 told from the perspective of a broad set of emblematic characters. As pointed out in the excellent review by Ian , Vollmann carries over in this novel his deep concerns with the moral calculus behind violence as explored in his non-fiction work preceding this, \u201cRising Up and Rising Down.\u201d The central characters and their major concerns include: --Dmitri Shastakovich, a Russian classical composer who struggles with freedom of expression under the repressive Soviet regime, is inspired by an abiding love for a mistress he had in the mid-30s (Elena, whose incursion on their marriage wife Nina tolerated for the greater good), and wavers between producing \u201cprogram\u201d music to please Stalin\u2019s enforcers (such as his Seventh Symphony\u2019s representation of the defeat of the Fascist armies at the Siege of Leningrad) and the more abstract pieces that capture for him the angst and suffering of life in these times which tend to get denounced for decadent formalism. Like the poet Akhmatova, who also was at the Siege of Leningrad, Shastakovich was credited with inspiring the hope and resilience of the city and the world beyond to resist the onslaught of the Fascist war machine --Roman Karmen, a photojournalist and creator of film documentaries used for Soviet propaganda, who, despite being a loyal Communist Party member , is brave, energetic, and cheerful about life; although he was married to Dmitri\u2019s love Elena for a period, he works well with Dmitri on some film projects. This \"soldier with a camera\" went to the most dangerous battles to document the war with the Nazis and loved capturing the common people in documentaries before and after the war; first to film the liberation of a concentration camp --Kathe Kollwitz, a German socialist artist who lost much of her family in World War 1 and achieved admiration for her portraits of ravaged or starving women and children both in Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. Kollwitz drawing from 1934, \"Death Seizing a Woman\" Kollwitz self-portrait --Andrei Vlasov, one of the key commanding generals for Soviet forces at the successful defense of Moscow in 1941, but after being imprisoned by the Germans after the defeat of his forces in the attempt to break the Siege of Leningrad in Spring 1942, he collaborated with Nazi efforts to create an anti-Bolshevik revolt within the Red Army; eventually executed by the Soviets after the war for treason --<---C>Friedrich Paulus</---C>, a German general in command of the Sixth Army at the Siege of Stalingrad in 1942-43 whose Axis forces of Wehrmacht and Romanian solders were ordered by Hitler to fight to the last man; they sustained losses of about 250,000 before the remaining 90,000 soldiers and volunteers were captured, most of which dies in Siberian labor camps; Paulus was named Field Marshal on the day of his capture as a reward for his expected suicide, but his Catholicism forbade that and he lived on, eventually supporting an anti-Fascist group among imprisoned German officers and testifying against key Nazis at the Nuremberg Trials. An emaciated General Paulus trying to maintain dignity at the time of capture at Stalingrad, the turning point toward defeat of Nazi Germany; the 5-month battle led to 1.1 million casualties for the Soviets and about 800,000 for the Axis forces --Kurt Gerstein, a junior SS officer and assistant to Eichmann\u2019s implementation officer for the Final Solution who worked as a liaison to deliver and monitor effectiveness of prussic acid and Zyklon B poisons at the Jewish death camps; as one who suffered at the extermination of a sister-in-law as a mentally defective and a Christian, he mentally assumed the role as a \u201cspy for God\u201d, seeing himself as keeping his hand clean while collecting evidence of the evil plan, but he failed to get various ministers or foreign consuls to convey that knowledge effectively to significant powers. --Hilde Benjamin (aka the \u201cRed Guillotine\u201d), a judge in East Germany after the war who pronounced the death sentence on many a political prisoner charged as an enemy of the proletarian communist cause; her vengeful attitude reflected her persecution as a German socialist during the war and the death of her Jewish husband in prison. You can see from this range of characters how much the scope and moral dimensions of the war could be covered from a narrative of their actions and personal lives. The challenge, and the exhilaration, of reading their stories comes from the radical modes of presentation used by Vollmann. He bounces in and out of viewpoints, sometimes slipping between first and third person from the subject\u2019s mind, between first person present or past tense from an anonymous observer or friend, and periodically coming out of the page to either an anonymous omniscient frame or as Vollmann himself. Some sections are fairly linear in time, but often there is foreshadowing and fracturing of the temporal sequencing. In a few sections, there is hallucinatory drift as the many metaphors take over. In one section, the whole war is compressed in mind of Hitler (whom he calls the sleepwalker throughout), who perceives the history of the Third Reich as fulfilling the German myths portrayed in Wagner\u2019s Ring Cycle operas. In a section on the Battle of Kurst, the largest tank battle in history, we get a cartoon-like presentation of a telephone communications soldier riding on and on as all of his friends with the Panzers are lost step by step until it is just him and an old one-legged mystical volunteer are left advancing undaunted on foot with no ammunition. Vollmann characterizes what he is writing as parables, not as any attempt at reconstructing actual events. He gives plenty of references to most events in the book, but in the case of the idealized, lasting love between Dmitri and Elena, he admits to complete fabrication. He saw Europe as a woman (Europa in myth), and Elena as an emblem for her. He oddly portrayed her as bisexual, which in a coda at the end of the book he justified as an attempt to make her universally beloved. He acknowledges the wonderful novel \u201cLife and Fate\u201d by Vasily Grossman for most effectively demonstrating the \u201cmoral equation of Stalinism and Hitlerism,\u201d claiming the concept to be his starting point. An elusive theme in the book concerns the role of the telephone in shaping the modern mentality and facilitating the extension of totalitarian control. Characters like Shastakovich are continually paranoid over state police listening on the line. The course of action of whole armies can be changed with an order from Hitler or Stalin\u2019s headquarters. Words and letters also often played with for special significance. For example, the German word for secret, Gehern, frequently will suddenly obscure written speech. After an early section of the book where Lenin\u2019s wife draws out the radical Jewish woman who inflicted a wound which will eventually kill her husband, Vollman accounts for bringing perspectives of the mystical Kabbalah into his writing as follows: And if this story crawls with reactionary supernaturalism, that might be because the author longs to set letters swelling across ceilings, cautiously beginning to reify themselves into angels. For if they could do that, why not us? By far the largest set of metaphors employed throughout this book are musical in nature. Shostakovich tried to capture the horrors of war and repression as well as the redemption and hope of love in his compositions. Thus, whenever we as readers are treated to his stream-of-consciousness, any sound or rhythm from the world are constantly being transmuted into scoring of notes and instruments in a particular key or tempo, whether the moans or movements of lovemaking, the knock of the secret police at the door, the scream of the tortured or bludgeoned, or the clank of a tank or blasts of an antiaircraft gun. But in other sections, the characters experiencing such sounds often are reminded of musical forms too, in many cases because they all have heard his transmutations or that of Wagner; alternatively, Vollmann intervenes to say Shastokovich will use the sound in his future work. And most often the piece that is projected to capture the whole epoch is his Opus 110 (String Quartet # 8), completed in 1960. Somehow he believed he could counter the evil in the world with his music. I have to admit I am a musical ignoramus, and I can only feel a glimmer of what is supposed to be distilled there when I listen to it on YouTube. Vollmann\u2019s prime hero here gets the foreground towards the end of the novel. He is often accused of self-indulgent excess (the only one I read, \u201cThe Dying Grass\u201d, about the U.S. Army\u2019s chase of Nez Perce Chief Joseph, was 1,200 pages long). However, despite my deficient musical perception, I loved the compression of the book\u2019s themes and the whole cataclysm of the war into his imagined construction of his Opus 110 by the composer. Here are some samples: At this point the music \u2026expands and expands, breaking out of Leningrad\u2019s concentric rings of death, \u2026but there is neither joy in it or even escape; it expands like an ascending aerial view of Dresden\u2019s roofless windowlessness and immense fishbones, half-untoothed combs, upon blinding white rubble-gravel, window-holed brickfronts shattered into runes and swastikas. \u2026 And whenever there\u2019s any beauty at all in Opus 110, it\u2019s dismembered; it drips with death like shitty guts hanging out of a woman\u2019s marble-white torso (this perish all enemies of Hitler and Stalin\u2019s power). And death oozes out of the silences between notes, too, the silences ofsecret Nazi documents (Geheim), the eight-beat rest which hung between himself and Maxim when the boy confessed to having denounced him at school \u2026Some notes of Opus 110 get coffined up in chords, while others, solo, coffinless, become Leningraders falling one by one into the snow to die. As for the rhythm, if you\u2019ve ever been present when our Blackshirts in Berlin or their NKVD cadres in Leningrad are beating enemies of the people, you\u2019ll know how it is, the screams alternating with gasps. What\u2019s that sound? That\u2019s the allegro molto . \u2026And Shostakovich, entering the negative spaces beneath the piano\u2019s black keys at last, extends his front line beyond music into a perfect hell where his life, dekulakization and Operation Barbarossa become one. Even more for the hungry mind tucked in here: (view spoiler) [ \u2026Never mind the second movement, when he really opens up with his eighty-eights!... We fly high, fine, but we don\u2019t know to shut off the X-ray beams which shine right through the earth to illuminate the mangled, tortured skeletons; we close our eyes, but can\u2019t stop seeing right through our eyelids. \u2026They called him a formalist but he was really a classicist. Let\u2019s call that mistake pure comedy. Anyhow, Shoshtakovich\u2019s music always flitters from one mood to another with incredible rapidity, which is to say that he\u2019s unstable. \u2026What\u2019s that sound? A quotation from the traditional Russian song \u201cLanguishing in Prison\u201d illuminates the airless chamber of the quartet with history\u2019s glare, but not brightly enough to show us whose prison or cyanide bath it must be, other than his. In Opus 110, nothing completes itself before perishing. \u2026it reminds us that D.D. Shoshtakovich is dying with his eyes open. He knows what happiness is. He knows that he\u2019ll never possess it. In our time life will be more, so to speak, JOYFUL: The walls will grow higher; the Fifth Symphony will end with hordes of perfidiously bristling bug-legged notes and chords strung on the music paper\u2019s barbed wire; Opus 110 will scream like invalids in a burning hospital . \u2026What is it that those idiots always say about Zoya? Not long but beautifully did she live! [18-year old woman hung by the Nazi\u2019s for burning a stable before the advance of their army toward Moscow, lionized for stating before death: \u201cYou can\u2019t hang all one hundred ninety million of us.\u201d] Life\u2019s a transfer prison. Sunlight between two darknesses isn\u2019t sunlight at all; it\u2019s central Europe herself, which is to say that it\u2019s the fourth movement\u2019s largo , which manages to convey the atmosphere of sickening expectation which overhung Shoshtakovich in this period; and that feeling is abstracted and generalized to include the naked women standing on a dirt-ledge, facing the hill so they won\u2019t have to see the pit of white corpses and black blood in which they\u2019ll soon lie, for across that pit, two soldiers are feeding a new clip into the machine-gun, waiting for the field telephone to ring. Once we learn the story (Estonian Jews), life alters\u2014doesn\u2019t it? Violin, viola, cello, violin! What\u2019s that sound? Shoshtakocih becomes every victim; trembling silently, staring at Nina\u2019s black round telephone-face with its perfectly round holes, he writes music which holds its breath, striving not to scream and scream. \u2026 Opus 110 is no progression, only a prison, and the prisoner (one D.D. Shoshtakovich) has now paced the walls right back to his starting point. He\u2019s at the center of the world, you see. (The center of the world is Leningrad, which is Stalingrad, which is Auschwitz.) Every place leads here. Hence Opus 110\u2019s horror as intimate as the throat-slime of music, the strings dripping with bitterness and hate. (hide spoiler) ] Most of my readings about World War 2 deal with the events in Western Europe and the Pacific. My mind was resistant to dwelling among the lives of avatars of the Nazi and Soviet regimes. This tour from the perspective of figures caught up in war in Central and Eastern Europe helped me see how many were struggling to act with honor and survive through compromise with their moral calculus. Only the \u201cRed Guillotine\u201d character among the personalities of focus felt truly despicable. I think we all crave a framework like Vollmann brilliantly creates to hold this pinnacle of suffering of the 20th century in our souls without judging the human species as unworthy of existing. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Put down on p221. I hesitate to write any sort of review, as I decided not to carry on, which is rare for me. I have not, for this reason, given it any stars. So the question is, why? WTV has got a lot of love from GR reviewers I respect greatly, and the subject matter should be right up my alley. Yet, somehow, I found myself growing increasingly irritated, and continually \"thrown out\" from the text, such that I quickly exhausted both my interest and my enjoyment. I cannot \"review\" this book, as Put down on p221. I hesitate to write any sort of review, as I decided not to carry on, which is rare for me. I have not, for this reason, given it any stars. So the question is, why? WTV has got a lot of love from GR reviewers I respect greatly, and the subject matter should be right up my alley. Yet, somehow, I found myself growing increasingly irritated, and continually \"thrown out\" from the text, such that I quickly exhausted both my interest and my enjoyment. I cannot \"review\" this book, as I have not completed it. However, I can explain why I have put it down, what it was in those pages which so vigorously rubbed me the wrong way. To keep things short and simple I will just state the following: 1.\tWTV has taken biographical information about some key, and not so key, characters from the period and inserted some invented elements of his own/taken quotes out of context etc. This should not have irritated me, as I have a fondness for fictionalised history, and yet it did, mainly because I knew the sources well enough to see where he had copied parts, or invented things and, as such, it made it impossible for me to fully \"enter\" the text. I was continually saying to myself, \"wait, that\u2019s not right!\", or feeling that the characterisation felt \"wrong\". I also felt that it was his \"additions\" that were problematic in their content, and reflected more of the author than the character. For me, what is interesting about writing/reading historical fiction is trying to inhabit an entirely alien and impossibly Other's worldview (and failing, obviously), much of the passages I read seemed not even to bother to try (this is possibly an overly bitchy comment, and not really deserved). 2.\tI found the sex scenes, and the detail of language used within them, jarring. I have no problem with the erotic, it is just that it did not work in the context. 3.\tThe prose was at times fantastic, but was also often clunky, confused and, as far as I am concerned, in need of some editing. This comes down to taste and, of course, just as with music, the fact that I did not like the prose, does not mean it is in any way objectively bad. 4.\tI found his conclusions/comments/metaphysical digressions trite and unoriginal (and I am aware this is unfair as I only read a small portion of the novel, and much was from the \"perspective\" of the characters). This may be harsh, and it may well be that that points 1-3 above meant I was much more inclined to notice and be critical of this. 5.\tFinally, he references, and was inspired by, the work of Danilo Ki\u0161. DK is a master of precision and control, and of the \"making-new\" of the historical. A Tomb for Boris Davidovich is fable-like in its exactness, in its meticulousness and concision, EC is not. From this reader's perspective, WTV suffers from his own comparison in the same way as Lars von Trier did at the start of Antichrist when he dedicated the film to Tarkovsky. However, I must reiterate that all of the above is very much a personal response. I respect the views of my fellow GR reviewers far too much to suggest that WTV is, in any way, a bad writer per se , or that this book is not worth trying. Nor has it put me off him in general, I am likely to give both The Royal Family and Fathers and Crows a go at some point. ...more Europe Central , William T. Vollmann\u2019s most popularly successful book (1280 gr ratings, 165 reviews, average starrage 3.88), conferrer of integrity upon the National Book Award for Fiction (2005), translated into German, Italian, Spanish, French and Serbian -- not too bad. A few thoughts in my minor key. Reading Europe Central after Vollmann\u2019s newest book, Last Stories , presented a contrast in regard to anxiety in the face of Death. In Last Stories Death has already passed and we no longer stand as Europe Central , William T. Vollmann\u2019s most popularly successful book (1280 gr ratings, 165 reviews, average starrage 3.88), conferrer of integrity upon the National Book Award for Fiction (2005), translated into German, Italian, Spanish, French and Serbian -- not too bad. A few thoughts in my minor key. Reading Europe Central after Vollmann\u2019s newest book, Last Stories , presented a contrast in regard to anxiety in the face of Death. In Last Stories Death has already passed and we no longer stand as being-toward-death. Europe Central presents that very anxiety of being-toward-death ; it is also resigned thereto, but in a more humanly anxious manner. There is a similar restraint of resignation in the two books, perhaps because as history, even in Europe Central, Death has already come and gone. Our capital \u2018A\u2019 Author is in Europe Central much less present than he is in most of Vollmann\u2019s books. In fact, he is almost entirely absent, removing himself in the name of his several Narrators. There are few apologies here for how the tale, how the stories, how the plot, might be going off the rails. The plot itself, I mean that about which this novel is about, is itself the going off the rails. This novel is historical fiction. The emphasis, as always, must be upon \u2018fiction.\u2019 Fiction is its own mode of truthful discourse and should not, not ever, be subsumed under the rubrics for truth as found in the historiographic discourses. The two discourses are related as a chiasmus (\u03c7); historiography is narratively (fictively) structured, and the fictional is always historically grounded, at least in its temptation. The task of this particular fictional discourse is the presentation of moral actors, as moral actors, in their situations ; a possibility which always makes fiction a moral fiction from the beginning. Deviations from trivial bits of data (the \u2018historical record\u2019, the archive) are documented ; that\u2019s how this reader knew that there are deviations. In other words, The fictionist must nothing. And one thing a fictionist need not do is employ a capital \u2018A\u2019 Author as Narrator who might point out to the naive reader whether the lower=case \u2018a\u2019 author condemns or approbates the actions of a character. That task is the reader\u2019s task. That is the moral task of novels. God is dead. And so is that author. As a portrait gallery of moral actors, Europe Central forms the fictive half of a diptych with the non-fiction portrait gallery of moral actors, Rising Up and Rising Down . As a portrait gallery Europe Central has that feature common to all (most!) encyclopedic novels in so far as it is far too short. It ends but it is not complete, or, will never be complete. There will always remain, exactly so as is the case with Miss MacIntosh, My Darling , more portraits to add to the gallery. From my corner of the world, I would submit that a novella about Dietrich Bonhoeffer, or one featuring Rosa Luxemburg, would expand this megalith further. And those nearly absent but Central characters, Lenin, Stalin, Hitler, would they remain necessarily in the margins? Or Prokofiev. Frank Zappa has been accused of saying that, Talking about music is like dancing about architecture. Zappa has been known to do a lot of dancing about architecture. Let me say, Vollmann not only writes about the music of Shostakovich, not only does he lean towards the occasional musical=prose, but he folds the music into his writing. Europe Central is yet a different kind of Vollmann book. All of his books, most of his books, many of his books, take a different course, a different tone and voice, than do his other books. It\u2019s all still Vollmann. But here in Europe Central , his is almost absent; having handed over the baton to the narrator, that familiar voice of Vollmann dissipates into an orientation regarding the material itself. What I want to say, One misses some of the hallucinogenic, dream=coursed, surrealistic flights into weird=metaphor and the like. The War was brutal enough. And yet there remain a few delicious passages of pure wandering consciousness, such as the phantastical \u201cAirlift Idylls\u201d. The structure? A novel built of collated stories. One might sample them. \u201cAirlift Idylls\u201d is one. The magnificent \u201cOpus 40\u201d and \u201cOpus 110\u201d are to be recommended. But do not hesitate to pick up that black telephone, I mean octopus. Europe Central is on the line. A few links from 2013 when the German translation was released :: (view spoiler) [ Auf Deutsch, an interview with Bill, translator Robin Detje, and \"einem seiner gr\u00f6\u00dften Bewunderer, dem deutschen Schriftsteller Clemens Setz.\" Die Zeit April 2013 On the occasion of the release of the German edition. \"Wie schreibt man ein Meisterwerk?\" http://www.zeit.de/2013/16/william-vo... _________ Review from Der Spiegel \"Mammutroman \"Europe Central\": Das m\u00f6rderische Jahrhundert\" von Thomas Andre 17 April 2013 http://www.spiegel.de/kultur/literatu... __________ Review from Frankfurter Allgemeine \"Das Stimmwunder aus Krieg und Diktatur\" von Andreas Platthaus 12 April 2013 http://www.faz.net/aktuell/feuilleton... __________ Another thing auf Deutsch: http://www.dradio.de/dkultur/sendunge... (hide spoiler) ] ...more It was on 3/4 mile of perfect Anguillan beach. On a wicker lounge. Derron, with a British accent, was feeding me margaritas, perfect though in plastic. For three days, a young couple lounged next to us. SHE wore a flimsy little white bikini with her (new?) name sequined on the back bottom: 'Mrs. K_____'. HE sat under the umbrella and read The Hebrew Bible for three days. So, don't tell me that Europe Central is not a beach book. It would be a simple matter to write this story as a parable of the It was on 3/4 mile of perfect Anguillan beach. On a wicker lounge. Derron, with a British accent, was feeding me margaritas, perfect though in plastic. For three days, a young couple lounged next to us. SHE wore a flimsy little white bikini with her (new?) name sequined on the back bottom: 'Mrs. K_____'. HE sat under the umbrella and read The Hebrew Bible for three days. So, don't tell me that Europe Central is not a beach book. It would be a simple matter to write this story as a parable of the heart which through its very empathy was duped. I don't know what it means either, but it seems like as good a starting point as any. This book is sprawling; the writing pyrotechnical (as always); it is multi-biographical. It wants to be great, and maybe is. There are many moments when it surely is. But Vollmann can not help excess. There are dream sequences when I looked over my shoulder to make sure Derron was busy blending and salting and not looking at how fast the pages were turning. Like all Vollmann, it is based on massive research. But also like all Vollmann, it is not wedded to meticulous truth. Like Life and Fate , to which it must necessarily be compared, Europe Central takes an artist's look at certain people who just happened to live through the Europe of World War II and beyond. EC is different in that it uses real people, such is Vollmann's way. A fabulous cast: Kathe Kollwitz, Anna Akhmatova; German General Friedrich Paulus and Russian General A.A. Vlasov, both driven to the brink of treason; and in perhaps the starring role: Dimitri Shostakovich. It turns out all the rest is (are) filler, context. This is a book about Shostakovich, battered by war and a Soviet system that made him a hero one day and defiled the next. And it is about his several marriages and, Vollmann would have us believe, a woman who was his ephemeral lover and eternal addiction. (We learn in a brief afterward that Vollman made it all up). The cigarettes, the vodka, the oral sex, the lies, the stuttering, forced self-effacement -- how did that make music? Vollmann tries to explain. And if he's only guessing, well, it's still fun. He examines several of Shostakovich's main works in more than passing analysis: Symphonies 7, 8 (a personal favorite) and 10; the 8th String Quartet (Opus 110); and the Cello Sonata (Opus 40). It is Opus 40 that Vollmann explains in detail is a musical examination of a multi-positional afternoon of perfectly choreographed sexual acts. I pass this along as a public service for those not inclined to read the whole 752 pages but just want to get to the good stuff - Chapter entitled 'Opus 40' starting at page 85 in my book. I have written elsewhere that I'm not always sure what music was intended to mean. I just listened to Opus 40 again. There are some musical themes therein that are, frankly, not in my playbook. It is natural to believe, or want to believe, since inertia is self-preservation, that once we have opened the vault, the dark grey file, and read some stupefying secret, we've learned the secret, in which all others, if in fact there are others, must be contained; hence we need not go to the dangerous trouble of digging anything else up . So Vollmann digs everything up. And paints it in an artist's spectrum. The Sleepwalker paces in Berlin. The Realist smiles knowingly in Moscow. And everyone else dies, or doesn't die, pawns, grist, sand covering us all. I brought this book home full of torn pieces of cocktail napkins, marking sentences that moved me, or stopped me while I lolled in Paradise. But I read it next to Mrs. K_____, and next to her, apparently Mr. K_____ and his Hebrew Bible . Did any of us hear the music, that string quartet, as Vollman did: About this quartet the most fundamental thing which can be said is that it is too sad even to rise from a moan into a wail at death's uncompassed crescendo. To be sure, the danse macabre of the second movement glows sickeningly vivid as a sodium flare at night (so much for flamelessness!); it's as bright as the electric light which illuminates the gas chamber when it's time to ascertain whether all the Jews are dead; while the menace of the third remains more chilling than those screams in Leningrad when the German bombs come down; they'll never stop coming down . There's more. But listen to the music. Or just the sounds. Like Stephen Stills, Vollmann keeps asking: What's that sound? It's war and love, breaking glass and tank treads, lies and accommodations, courage, equivocation and resignation. Or is that Derron's blender, drowning out Shostakovich's constant weeping? Maybe just buy the CD. ...more William Vollman's Europe Central was, for me, a very slow burn. I spent the first two hundred pages of this sprawling, kaleidescopic epic on the emotional sidelines, wryly observant, interested but not overly engaged. Vollman's characters, I thought, were intriguing, but also annoying. His prose was full of vivid detail, but a bit overblown. It was the kind of thing, I found myself thinking, that I would have enjoyed better in high school, when drama needed to be proclaimed from on high with can William Vollman's Europe Central was, for me, a very slow burn. I spent the first two hundred pages of this sprawling, kaleidescopic epic on the emotional sidelines, wryly observant, interested but not overly engaged. Vollman's characters, I thought, were intriguing, but also annoying. His prose was full of vivid detail, but a bit overblown. It was the kind of thing, I found myself thinking, that I would have enjoyed better in high school, when drama needed to be proclaimed from on high with cannon fire in order to get my attention. Do we really need, I wondered, another novel about World War II? And then I realized that I had begun thinking almost constantly about the moral dilemmas presented in the novel. Vollman has devoted years to thinking about the \"moral calculus\" utilized by human beings in situations of extremity, about the ways in which people make decisions in crisis, and how that plays out in a larger pattern of violence and history. All that thinking really pays off as he draws his fictionalized portraits of historical figures from mid-century Russia and Germany; these are people placed in crucial but impossible situations, people to whom dilemmas are posed with no answer remotely \"right,\" and Vollman traces their moral and emotional arcs with great care. I think Europe Central would make a perfect fiction companion to Rising Up and Rising Down , the same author's nonfiction examination of violence and its ramifications. Here, even more than in the factual case studies of Rising Up , the reader observes at close hand - from inside the subject's head, in fact - the protracted struggle to balance necessity and morality, to make sense of the insane circumstances in which he finds himself, to create and apply some version of a moral code. Since the novel spans decades - late 1930's to mid-1970's - the reader has time, too, to witness the effects of the passage of time, the slow (or, sometimes, lightning-quick) revisions that the characters must make to their moral codes under the weight of events, emotions, or simply old age. Europe Central features a wide swath of characters, from artists and poets (most prominently the Soviet composer Dmitri Shostakovich) to generals and spies. Although I'm generally not a fan of military fiction, this book surprised me: for my money, the most compelling episodes were two long pieces devoted to generals (the Russian Vlasov and the German Paulus) who each defected to the opposite side. Vollman's portrait of two giant powers, both irrationally fixed on the idea of Total War - no retreat under any circumstances - communicates the claustrophobic plight of military professionals trained to practice battle-craft as a strategic art. The chain of command dictates that both Vlasov and Paulus must follow orders, and their leaders' commitment to Total War means that the orders will never permit retreat, even for strategic purposes. Even when their respective armies are starved, surrounded, frozen and out of fuel and ammunition, they are ordered to succeed, and punished for disobeying orders. What's more, the cult of personality surrounding Hitler means that Vollman's Paulus must never doubt the ultimate wisdom of his F\u00fchrer's orders, or his entire moral universe will crumble. It's fascinating to watch this tension between Paulus's false faith and his professional's knowledge of the battlefield play out in test after test. Will he defy orders when he knows the battle is unwinnable? When he realizes that successful escape is impossible? When he understands that all his men will likely die pointless deaths? In each of these scenarios Paulus remains ferociously loyal; it is only when he witnesses the casualness with which Hitler expects him to take his own life that his internal walls begin to crumble. His ultimate decision, to allow himself to be taken alive by the Soviets, is one that would never occur to me as a betrayal, especially after the grueling fighting he led. But by his own moral lights, he has betrayed his F\u00fchrer and his former self, and must conceptualize himself anew as a Russian collaborator. All of his assumptions are suddenly up for reconsideration. His bitterness at being treated so unreasonably combines with his more objective misgivings - and, of course, the pressure of the Soviet propaganda machine - and he becomes a vocal critic of the government he'd almost died to defend. All of the characters in Europe Central are deeply flawed, if not downright unlikeable. After all, many of them are working to strengthen two of the most oppressive nation-states in living memory: Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Soviet Russia. Many of the episodes are narrated by semi-faceless mid-level functionaries in the Nazi or Communist parties, men who have been completely indoctrinated in the nonsensical bigotry of the party line. Even those characters who don't support their country's favored brand of totalitarian oppression are endowed by Vollman with irritating mannerisms and/or infuriating qualities; there are no kind, easy, socially enlightened resistance-fighter heroes for whom the reader can cheer. Yet, with a few exceptions, even the most unlikeable people in the book evoke, at times, a spark of sympathy in the reader. And although eight hundred pages of unlikeable people is an understandably hard sell, I honestly believe the characters' deep complexity is what makes the novel so compelling. World War II is often viewed, especially by Americans, as \"the good war,\" a clear-cut battle of the Light of freedom and tolerance (in which we see ourselves) battling the Dark of oppression and bigotry (Hitler's Germany). Vollman strips away this simplistic vision by the simple act of looking at the war's eastern front: between two oppressive, power-mad totalitarian regimes, between two all-seeing surveillance and propaganda machines, between two starved wastelands across which humans are transported to secret locations and subjected to atrocities, the choice is much less clear. Caught between two such choices, it takes remarkable strength of vision to imagine, let alone fight for, a third option, even when that third option is a dire necessity. As he paints these characters' struggles of loyalty - between Hitler and Stalin, between the collective and the self, between the party line and their own integrity - Vollman blurs all lines that separate one side from the other. A spy who uses his racial privilege to join the SS and expose their crimes, yet who fails to obtain international cooperation - are his hands clean? A composer living under seige, whose children are starving, and who wants to believe that music can actually help turn the tide of the war, writes a program symphony that tows the party line - to what extent has he compromised his integrity? A Soviet general, soured on Stalin's machinations, who allows himself to be convinced that collaboration with Germany will enable him to fight for the liberation of Russia, and who tells himself that rumors of concentration camps are another example of Soviet slander - where does he fall on the moral spectrum? And how can my own sympathy as a reader be more with a German general than a conflicted Soviet artist? In observing the progress of each of these characters through their personal decision-making processes, and the vast moral gray areas involved, one begins to question one's own black-and-white view of the Second World War. Indeed, Vollman ends the book with a meditation on black, white, and shades of gray. I've noticed that many people recommend this novel for World War II history aficionados, but I think that's slightly beside the point. Vollman is writing fiction; he creates full emotional lives and narrative voices for his characters such that the final products could only be suggested by, not true to, the historical record. History buffs who cringe at factual liberties and poetic license would be well-advised to stay away. No, as I see it, the people who ought to read this novel are those intrigued by the human psyche in times of great crisis, or fascinated by the cycle of violence on a grand historic scale as well as a personal, internal one. The truly thoughtful reader will also learn from observing the shifting sands of her own sympathies as she reads. ...more Hence religious parables, socialist realism, Nazi propaganda. And if this story likewise crawls with reactionary supernaturalism, that might be because its author longs to see letters scuttling across ceilings, cautiously beginning to reify themselves into angels. For if they could only do that, then why not us? Extremity is revealing. The fact that the instances of such (to 1st Worlders, anyway) occur so seldom only enhances its spell. The soul MUST be forged within the flames of being. Well, ma Hence religious parables, socialist realism, Nazi propaganda. And if this story likewise crawls with reactionary supernaturalism, that might be because its author longs to see letters scuttling across ceilings, cautiously beginning to reify themselves into angels. For if they could only do that, then why not us? Extremity is revealing. The fact that the instances of such (to 1st Worlders, anyway) occur so seldom only enhances its spell. The soul MUST be forged within the flames of being. Well, maybe. The Ost Front was the greatest mechanized calmaity of our species. What does it mean morally? What does it portend over those who ponder the foe-stated dilemma? Is the equation apt? Simple statistics reveal that most of us would bow, collaborate or remain mute in the Dark Times, yet we turn again and again to Year Zero. What sort of tacit death wish are we actually whispering? ...more Wow. How many of these dense 800+ page novels can I get through without hitting my head against a wall? Not sure, but here is another. Vollmann reigns supreme among living writers. I can't think of a single American writer more prolific than Vollmann, going all the way back to the country's founding. An historic novel set in early 20th century central Europe, it sets out to depict the mindset of many famous people put in moralistic binds during warfare; a modern War and Peace, essentially. His tre Wow. How many of these dense 800+ page novels can I get through without hitting my head against a wall? Not sure, but here is another. Vollmann reigns supreme among living writers. I can't think of a single American writer more prolific than Vollmann, going all the way back to the country's founding. An historic novel set in early 20th century central Europe, it sets out to depict the mindset of many famous people put in moralistic binds during warfare; a modern War and Peace, essentially. His treatment of composer Dmitri Shostakovich is standout. I've never read such beautiful prose describing music anywhere else. If it were any more beautiful, it would actually be the music he's describing. Shostakovich was easily my favorite character in the novel. The book makes use of plenty of historical source material, so it's true history with Vollmann employing artistic characterization to drive a compelling narrative. A book of this magnitude seems like it would take decades upon decades upon decades to put together. Vollmann must have access to some of the best stimulants around. It's sometimes difficult to try connecting the characters -- some of them are brief and have seemingly no connection to any others -- but that appears to be intended. Those particular portions are meant to stand on their own, offering the worldview of that particular German/Russian person. I preferred the Russian parts of the book more than the German. Europe Central succeeds in showing what it was like to live in such a tumultuous time, and the difficulties in human beings trying to connect or disconnect one with another. I'd like to read this book again at some point, and think you'd do well to do the same. minor edits added on 02/20/13 to fix small errors ...more With Europe Central, I've now read a dozen books by Vollmann. Which sort of seems like a lot, except that I've still barely even touched his two main projects: the Seven Dream series and Rising Up & Rising Down. His books vary widely in subject matter, yet clearly the same relentless mind is at work in all of them. He makes you believe that smoking crack with a street whore and spending hours in a library researching WW2 need not be such different activities. It's all for the sake of the same With Europe Central, I've now read a dozen books by Vollmann. Which sort of seems like a lot, except that I've still barely even touched his two main projects: the Seven Dream series and Rising Up & Rising Down. His books vary widely in subject matter, yet clearly the same relentless mind is at work in all of them. He makes you believe that smoking crack with a street whore and spending hours in a library researching WW2 need not be such different activities. It's all for the sake of the same manic curiosity about the human condition. He's not a perfect writer. His first novel was subtitled 'a cartoon,' and I think that's very self-revealing. Henry James he is not. His characters never really possess complex inner lives. For all the extreme variety of experience on display, everyone seems to have a fairly stunted emotional palette. I thought this problem reared its head again in Europe Central. The great love between Shostakovich and Elena is sort of taken on hearsay. It remains fairly vapid, a kind of placeholder until the end. I find this problem is less pronounced in his books set in the present. In general I have a preference for the ones about prostitutes and other riff-raff in contemporary urban hell. I'm not sure if I'll continue digging through the Vollmann canon, but I do eagerly look forward to the publication of this one novel described here: http://observer.com/2013/10/do-ya-thi... After decades of writing about prostitution more or less from the perspective of the john, it seems he's now going to attempt the whore's point of view. I will be fascinated to see if he pulls it off. ...more A great companion book to the abridged version of Vollmann's Rising Up and Rising Down . This isn't for everyone. It's a war novel that isn't really a war novel, but a study of morality in totalitarian societies. Absolutely great. What I learned? I learned that Walter Benjamin's sister-in-law was a cold-hearted prosecutor in East Germany, who sent many, many people to their deaths for ideological reasons. I also learned that many of these people were killed using a guillotine. That's pretty bad-a A great companion book to the abridged version of Vollmann's Rising Up and Rising Down . This isn't for everyone. It's a war novel that isn't really a war novel, but a study of morality in totalitarian societies. Absolutely great. What I learned? I learned that Walter Benjamin's sister-in-law was a cold-hearted prosecutor in East Germany, who sent many, many people to their deaths for ideological reasons. I also learned that many of these people were killed using a guillotine. That's pretty bad-ass. ...more Patronymics --Europe Central Sources An Imaginary Love Triangle: Shostakovich, Karmen, Konstantinovskaya Acknowledgements A World War II novel that barely mentions America at all... since it's more or less been lost to American history that the Soviet Union was the country that kicked Germany's ass and stopped their encroaching empire. The story focuses slightly less on the war and more on the human stories from the war, concentrating on Soviet Russia and Fascist Germany, using quite a few obscure (to me, at least) historical figures as characters. Vollmann points out that in a war between ideologies like Soviet Co A World War II novel that barely mentions America at all... since it's more or less been lost to American history that the Soviet Union was the country that kicked Germany's ass and stopped their encroaching empire. The story focuses slightly less on the war and more on the human stories from the war, concentrating on Soviet Russia and Fascist Germany, using quite a few obscure (to me, at least) historical figures as characters. Vollmann points out that in a war between ideologies like Soviet Communism and German Fascism, whomever wins still loses. This is a book that might properly be called historical fiction in the non-Harlequin Romance sense, since plenty of the dialogue and events have been culled from history's sources. Real-life characters include artist Kathe Kollwitz, Russian composer Dmitri Shostakovich, Stalin, Hitler, German Field Marshals Friedrich Paulus and Erich von Manstein, \"Red Guillotine\" Hilde Benjamin, Soviet General Andrey Vlasov, film director Roman Karmen, Russian poet Anna Ahkmatova, and SS Officer Kurt Gerstein. The largest part of the text is devoted to composer Dmitri Shostakovich, who was hounded his entire life by the Russian Communist Party and threatened often with imprisonment and death. His life was overwhelmingly sad, and he died sick and unhappy with his few friends keeping their distance out of their own fear of Stalinist agents. For extra pathos, Shostakovich is given an unrequited love interest lasting over forty years. Kurt Gerstein's tale \"Clean Hands\" is the most effective of a highly affecting bunch. Appalled by Nazi Germany's crimes against humanity, he joined the SS in order to stop them. Gerstein destroyed barrel after barrel of Zyklon B in an effort to save Jews or at least keep them alive longer. At great personal risk to himself, tried to inform the Swedes, Americans, the British, and the Catholic Church of the Holocaust, only to be scoffed at by all of them. He was arrested and sentenced as a war criminal after Germany's defeat. There aren't many writers who can make German SS soldiers and Nazi field marshals into sympathetic characters. Vollmann probably wisely doesn't try to make his reader feel such sympathy for Hitler, Stalin, Mengele, Goebbels, Goring, and the rest; however, it's difficult to not feel empathetic toward men lower on the totem pole who are fighting because they'll be killed outright otherwise by their own government, and who miss their wives and children. This is a good companion piece to Vollmann's excellent Rising Up and Rising Down, which also covers quite a bit of Soviet Russian sociomilitary history, particularly with regard to the Russian Revolution. I'd not have known the word \"dekulakization\" (Soviet Russia's murder of two million well-to-do \"class enemies\") and a few other pieces of history had I not read that first. It isn't often that one hears about WWII from the Russian and German perspective, and Russia is barely conceived of now as its own political entity, for better or worse, that fought and won against a better-prepared invader. ...more First sentence: \"A squat black telephone, I mean an octopus, the god of our Signal Corps, owns a recess in Berlin (more probably Moscow, which one German general has named the core of the enemy's whole being ). Somewhere between steel reefs, a wire wrapped in gutta-percha vibrates: I hereby . . . zzZZ ZZ . . . the critical situation . . . a crushing blow \". If that don't sell you on a book, I don't know what will. If you have any interest in World War II and the relationship and events happening in Russia and Germany, read this book. If you are interested in what was happening in these countries leading up to World War II then also read this book. If you are interested in what was happening after World War II then read this book. This is told through the perspectives of different historical figures like the composer Shostakovich, Paulus, Gerstein and others. It is beautifully written and exhaustively rese If you have any interest in World War II and the relationship and events happening in Russia and Germany, read this book. If you are interested in what was happening in these countries leading up to World War II then also read this book. If you are interested in what was happening after World War II then read this book. This is told through the perspectives of different historical figures like the composer Shostakovich, Paulus, Gerstein and others. It is beautifully written and exhaustively researched. I loved this book. It went on my best reads pile. I didn't even mind that it was so long. I enjoyed every minute of it. I will be reading more Vollmann. The writing was just so good. It does contain some graphic sex and graphic depictions of war tortures and such so if that bothers you then you might not like this. I thought the sex made the book more interesting and humanized some of the characters and of course you can't tell a story about World War II and Germany and Russia and pretend everything was nice and nothing bad happened so the gruesome depictions of war stuff and tortures were just part of what happened. The way all this is presented is just on so much of a higher level. This is just great writing in my opinion. I was captivated from the start. Highly recommended. 5 stars and best reads. ...more Most Americans know about the American contribution to the Allied defeat of Nazi Germany, but by the accounts of most Europeans, it was the victory of Russia that determined the fate of the Third Reich. In comparison to the 4oo thousand American deaths, Russia lost twenty-three million. The cities and endless expanses of Central Europe were littered with bodies when these two gigantic armies slugged it out. This book paints a fantastic portrait of that struggle and its aftermath, studded with in Most Americans know about the American contribution to the Allied defeat of Nazi Germany, but by the accounts of most Europeans, it was the victory of Russia that determined the fate of the Third Reich. In comparison to the 4oo thousand American deaths, Russia lost twenty-three million. The cities and endless expanses of Central Europe were littered with bodies when these two gigantic armies slugged it out. This book paints a fantastic portrait of that struggle and its aftermath, studded with individual moral dilemas and the search for individual expression. America is only briefly mentioned once or twice; for many of us, this period in history is almost unthinkably bleak. Participants in the European 'Total War' are portrayed trying to survive horrific totalitarian regimes, struggling with inescapable moral choices: whether to speak out against cruel dictators; whether to hamper the architects of the gas chambers thereby putting one's own family at risk; whether to betray one authoritarian regime for another etc... Vollmann is a very writerly writer, sometimes a bit obtuse and undisciplined, as he bends his talents to telling the stories of Field Marshals, defectors, dictators, poets and writers, SS officers, spies and assassins. He seems to be inspired by literature from fairy tales to Wagnerian opera to Tolstoy. His most sympathetic attentions go to narrating the life of Dmitri Shostakovich, the composer who spent his life on a knife's edge between expressing his profound inner music and falling afoul of Stalin, possibly the most bloodthirsty dictator in human history. While most of the book is scrupulously researched and footnoted, a great deal of it is devoted to a fictional love affair between the sensitive composer and Elena Konstantanovskaya a seductive, translator. Their passion, and the composer's experience of terror contribute in varrying measures to Shostakovich's musical creations. There's a lot of passion in this book, not very much humour, and a very heavy philosophical weight, and its too big a book to describe in three paragraphs. My advice: if it sounds good, check it out! ...more Impressively ambitious and far-reaching, this is Vollmann's post-modern summation of a 20th century caught between warring ideologies. Europe Central is the hub that relays and intermingles the messages of fascism and communism into a chattering portrait of the immediate past. It's filled with characters trapped between unappealing, dangerous moral options (Dimitri Shostakovich and Kurt Gerstein burn especially bright) and gleaming with clever allegory and bits of hyper-vivid dashes of prose, bu Impressively ambitious and far-reaching, this is Vollmann's post-modern summation of a 20th century caught between warring ideologies. Europe Central is the hub that relays and intermingles the messages of fascism and communism into a chattering portrait of the immediate past. It's filled with characters trapped between unappealing, dangerous moral options (Dimitri Shostakovich and Kurt Gerstein burn especially bright) and gleaming with clever allegory and bits of hyper-vivid dashes of prose, but it's also an unwieldy behemoth of a book that wanders and repeats (much like history itself, perhaps) and becomes perhaps slightly less than the collection of all of these little parts. And I can't say I care for pure military history, though Vollmann certainly takes voices and approaches to the material all his own. But some of his mythizations (Operation Citadel as Wagnerian epic, is especially memorable) are fantastic, and I find myself really loving Shostakovich, and his music, now. And, as Jesse notes, the obsessive attention to detail is incredible (see the lengthy notes section). But on the other hand of Vollmann's fixations are difficult to fully grasp. I recognize Elena K as the center of goodness here, but it's never clear why. Vollmann and all his characters seem to adore her, but we never see her clearly, only the warping effects of their adoration. Another cryptic case of a writer who becomes obsessed with a figure at least partly of his own creation perhaps (see Faulkner's \"heart's darling\" Caddy Compson). But anyway. This book is amazing and tiresome and I'm glad to have read it and glad to be done. ...more Europe Central is an uncompromising examination of the effect of war and ideology on players large and small along the eastern front of World War II. I suggested this novel for the digital collection of my library, and they purchased the WMA version rather than the EPUB version. So I began to listen to the audiobook, mostly because Goodreader PR Griffis said it could be done and I would probably like it. Listening to this book is fairly tough, because it is densely packed with facts, impressions Europe Central is an uncompromising examination of the effect of war and ideology on players large and small along the eastern front of World War II. I suggested this novel for the digital collection of my library, and they purchased the WMA version rather than the EPUB version. So I began to listen to the audiobook, mostly because Goodreader PR Griffis said it could be done and I would probably like it. Listening to this book is fairly tough, because it is densely packed with facts, impressions, and sometimes dreamlike sequences. However, the narrator is excellent and delivers a fine reading. I went ahead and ordered the book after a few tracks in, because I anticipate reading it again in the future, most likely through the G.R Brain Pain group's William T. Vollmann project. In my future reading, I will obtain some of the Shostakovich recordings that are examined in detail, and I would also highly recommend that to first time readers. 4.5/5 ...more This massive tome nearly knocked me out, but I survived, and am much the better for it. My knowledge of the eastern front of World War II was greatly expanded, told from the points of view of a wide range of musicians, lovers, generals, artists and government functionaries. The cast of carriers and constantly shifting narration was dizzying, but ultimately deeply satisfying. Vollman\u2019s use of real people (whom I could study independently) and detailed list of sources helped me wade through this o This massive tome nearly knocked me out, but I survived, and am much the better for it. My knowledge of the eastern front of World War II was greatly expanded, told from the points of view of a wide range of musicians, lovers, generals, artists and government functionaries. The cast of carriers and constantly shifting narration was dizzying, but ultimately deeply satisfying. Vollman\u2019s use of real people (whom I could study independently) and detailed list of sources helped me wade through this often excessive and complex vignettes. Not only are the narrators unreliable, they are often unrecognizable, and shape shift between and sometimes even within sentences. But the poetry and elliptical repetitions have a strangely sensual effect on the reader. This was hard to read late at night, it is taxing on the brain and one must stay alert to appreciate it. But I love learning and this most unusual \u201chistorical\u201d novel, my first by this author, was incredibly rewarding. I learned a great deal about the soviet leaders, and the furher of course, and many artists, notably the composer Shostakovich. The overwhelming and insidious power of the soviet state over the composer\u2019s state of mind was highly effective. The author does not judge, he gets into all the various heads of his protagonists, and his narrators, no matter how petty or profound or disgusting their ethics may be. Vollman\u2019s technical mastery of his subjects is remarkable \u2013 the kind of guy I\u2019d love to hang around at parties. But I\u2019ll let him speak a little for himself: (p27): \u201cMost literary critics agree that fiction cannot be reduced to mere falsehood. Well-crafted protagonists come to life, pornography causes orgasms, and the pretense that life is what we want it to be may conceivably bring about the desired condition.\u201d (p308): \u201c\u2026after awhile I realized that there was nothing to do but seek out these things whose associations caused me such agony, and bury the freshly bloody grief under the dirt of new experience.\u201d (p. 387): \u201c\u2026then the explosions, followed after an interval by the crystal-clear cracklings of frozen rubble shivering to fragments, the cries of the survivors, each cry utterly sincere and wrapped up in itself, as if its own pain were the first pain which had ever come into this world; it always surprised him how many of his soldiers called for their mothers at the end\u201d. (p. 418): \u201c\u2026a beautiful, placid dark-haired Polish girl sat ever so slowly turning over the leaves of her illustrated German magazine; the skin of her naked throat was as perfect as a political idea.\u201d (p. 426): \u201c..duties would bring him to the virgin facility of Maidanek, whose greenish barracks could devour only two thousands Jews per day, but the place produced luscious cabbages which were manured with the snow-white ashes of Jews\u201d. (p. 578): \u201cBut our line in those days was that the quicker those brutes came to power the better, because they would bring capitalism\u2019s contradictions to a head.\u201d (p. 705): \u201cHere ran his own slogan, well learned from the late Comrade Stalin: Never trust anyone. Never say anything- except musically, of course. Music is safe because nobody understands it. In other words, only in music is everything clear.\u201d (p. 729) on Cliburn: \u201c\u2026with perfect neutrality (cold in execution, warm in conception), the piano suddenly took on a passion alternating with glissandos of a different sort of neutrality like ripples on a sunny Arctic lake; then came the breathless erotic haste of the finale, which never stopped being clear and careful at the same time, like a lover\u2019s deliberate touch\u201d. (p. 742) from the Gulag: \u201c\u2026it was almost as if we could already see those sleazy smiles on the faces of the Aryan girls we\u2019d given our all for; now they were doing it with American soldiers just to get a little chocolate; when I got home and saw them flashing their teeth at the men who\u2019d burned Dresden, I almost let them have it.\u201d As great as this was, Vollman might need an editor \u2013 some sections were far too long and wear out the reader. But he\u2019s a virtuoso, and maybe his wings can\u2019t be clipped. Perhaps I just need to get used to the strange emanations, like finding the thread of the jazz saxophonist Ornette Coleman and is strange creations. Likely Vollman is over my head, and it is I who is limited in understand \u2013 so I hope he will forgive me chopping off a star in this pathetic review. ...more It's hard to think back to a time when modern popular music didn't have an electronic beat behind it, but in the grand scheme of things, it's still a relative novelty. In reality, it's been less than 100 years from when orchestral music reigned supreme, and it reigned supreme for a really long time -- literally hundreds of years. It almost seems silly to consider now (and when you read passages about it, even moreso), but not too long ago, people would gather at a symphony, or around a talented It's hard to think back to a time when modern popular music didn't have an electronic beat behind it, but in the grand scheme of things, it's still a relative novelty. In reality, it's been less than 100 years from when orchestral music reigned supreme, and it reigned supreme for a really long time -- literally hundreds of years. It almost seems silly to consider now (and when you read passages about it, even moreso), but not too long ago, people would gather at a symphony, or around a talented pianist, and be moved to tears by the performance. Not that there aren't those who still do so today, but I'm talking about the masses, the popular culture -- when a big composer had a new symphony, it was the absolute talk of the town. Nowadays, it's certainly more of a niche genre -- most of us aren't feverishly anticipating the day when Croatian composer Ivan Bo\u017ei\u010devi\u0107's hot new mixtape drops on Spotify. It's strange to consider the changes we've seen in music, even from the 70s to the 80s to the 90s to now, in such a short period of time. But I would guess most of us lump most music from before 1940 into the \"classical\" bucket. (And before that , what was there? Renaissance music? That must've been way back in the 1400s!) When we think of music that is \"offensive\" these days, we are mostly concerned with issues of language -- naughty words, sexy lyrics, stuff like that. The musical elements aren't considered. There aren't many sounds in the western world of music that are offensive to our ears (all Justin Bieber jokes aside). Top 40 is based around pleasing vocal melodies and harmonies, while the music serves to do little else than provide a foundation of a basic chord progression. In reality, the vocal melody and the beat are what's important -- it's hard to find offense with anything on a sonic level. I bring this all up because for most of this colossal 800+ page book, I struggled with the concept of formalism, specifically how it pertains to music. Because formalism, you see, was a crime punishable by death in the 30s and 40s. This music was considered offensive . It wasn't the words, it wasn't the beat -- it was the music, a series of small circles on a musical staff, played by a group of musicians, creating a sound that could make you an enemy of the state. Much of this book outlines the life of Russian composer Dmitri Shostakovich, who achieved great fame and success, but also drew the ire of Stalin and the Communist Party (which was not a good thing if you were Russian back then). His music was considered formalist, \"coarse, primitive and vulgar.\" He fell out of favor, and was constantly fearing for his life, not because of something he said or anything he did, but because of the music. It's very sound was considered offensive. I think I had a hard time understanding the concept, because this is not something you'd run across in the top pop songs of today. Formalism, technically, means that a piece of music's meaning is derived from its form -- it's structure, notation, and overall organization -- NOT from it's lyrics, or from any feeling it evokes. For example, today if you want to hear something that cheers you up, you might listen to a light, poppy, uptempo song with easy lyrics. Katy Perry or something like that. That music's meaning is derived from a feeling it evokes: happy. If you're angry, you might listen to death metal. Again, the meaning isn't necessarily derived from the rapid-fire percussion or screamed vocals -- it's an overall feeling. (These points could certainly be argued, but hopefully you see my point.) Shostakovich used his very music to attack the oppressive Stalinist regime, and he was either fortunate or cursed to live in a time when the popular music of the day allowed him to do such a thing. Over the course of this book's 800 pages, Shostakovich lives through the horrors of World War II -- specifically the battle between Russia and Germany, as the Nazis try to invade, and the Russians look to repel them, while both sides pay terrible costs. What Shostakovich sees, he puts into his music -- he takes the tone of a sobbing mother who has just lost her child, and puts it into his music. He hears the marching of soldiers' boots, and inserts it into his 7th symphony. The wail of a siren, the falling of a bomb, the trickle of blood down a dead man's face, all of these are assigned notes, and put into his music. I have never listened to Shostakovich, but I did during my reading of this book. You can hear everything. It is loud. It is tragic. It is angry. There is a 12 minute section in the first movement of his 7th symphony that just repeats the same phrase over and over again, slowly increasing in volume, growing gradually more urgent, until eventually it is chaos. The drums are overpowering, trombones blare like a siren, the woodwind instruments crash with the power of a warhead. It is absolutely terrifying. It's no surprise then, that high ranking party officials were constantly on Shostakovich to write something happier, lighter, maybe a nice hero's anthem or something to lift the spirits of the troops. The heard the pain in his symphonies and decided it would be dangerous for the populace to hear it. There's a war on; they needed to keep the propaganda machine rolling, and this music wasn't helping. It was offensive to them. It was formalist -- the meaning of the music (the pain of war, the tyranny of Stalin) was in it's very structure, embedded in its very bones. It's fascinating stuff. This kind of thing would never happen today, because music just isn't like that anymore. It's not so formalist, which in this book, seems like a bad word (an offensive word). Maybe music has gone the way it has because of exactly this kind of thing. Who is to say? If Shostakovich were alive today, how could he possibly react to what we call top 40 music? Would he bemoan the lack of importance? Or would he be relieved in its simpler structures and the freedoms that come with it? ...more I read Europe Central in order to find out what is going on in experimental fiction these days. First, I picked up the Audible edition (easy to do when you're spending points) but one hour in I knew I needed to see the text. Russian names. Fragments of overheard speech. Impossible events. Next, I picked up the iTunes edition (even easier to do) but this wasn't right either. I wanted to underline, to draw arrows, to write exclamation points in the margins...leave my mark. So I ordered a used prin I read Europe Central in order to find out what is going on in experimental fiction these days. First, I picked up the Audible edition (easy to do when you're spending points) but one hour in I knew I needed to see the text. Russian names. Fragments of overheard speech. Impossible events. Next, I picked up the iTunes edition (even easier to do) but this wasn't right either. I wanted to underline, to draw arrows, to write exclamation points in the margins...leave my mark. So I ordered a used print copy on Amazon. When it arrived I found out something about the hardcover edition that was not true of the other two editions: it was not easy to pick up...literally. Eight hundred pages including fifty pages of footnotes. Daunting. Still, in for a penny, in for a pound, as they say. More like five pounds. William T. Vollmann is an ambitious writer. In Europe Central he sets out to make the defining event of the 20th century, World War II, ingestible. Not DIgestible...there is no clarity here. INgestible, as in...the reader takes in the text and responds at the gut level. He focuses on defining moments in the lives of a few persons living in Stalinist Russia or Nazi Germany during the war. We get very close (inside-the-head close) to artists, generals, spies, scientists...and, of course, the dictators themselves. There is no plot. When people talk about a story being \"plot-driven\" or \"character-driven\", they are looking at the story arc. There is story here, but no arc. I would say that the story that there is in each \"chapter\" is language-driven.. The author...not fact (although there is much fact here--historical names, dates, places, etcetera)...the author is in charge. Example: Elena Konstantinovskaya was actually blond but Elena the character has long dark hair, which fits better into the imagery throughout. There is no sequence. The \"chapters\" are paired. Each pair comes at a topic or theme from opposite sides. Zoya speaks out before she is hung; Gerstein records atrocities before he is shot. There are many narrators. The first person pops up in text, and the reader has to figure out who is talking...and the narrator can change mid-chapter...without so much as a new paragraph. Russian omniscient voice, German omniscient voice, communications specialist, rocket science bureaucrat, secret policeman, cultural minister.... Even Shostakovich (about whom there are multiple chapters) shows up in first person a few times. And since there are many pairs in this book, I'd say that one 1st person narrative voice I hear is the Author's Double. Here the narrator is a dutiful communications specialist in a windowless office in Romania. Presumably he has followed the war since 1938 (\"Away flees Chamberlain...\") up to a pivotal moment in 1945, through his access to the vibrating wires. Now he enthuses about Germany, now Russia, whomever is in power (\"One has to be on the watch...\"). But then the voice of the author edges in. (\"The receiver clamps to a mouth and an ear.\") The specialist comments in parentheses: \" I thought they were mine.\" The text moves away from the purview of the specialist. I hear the author predicting the future. (\"In spite of mass commitment, there were not enough components.\") I hear the author asking questions about WWII. (\"What set steel in motion?\") The author, not the Romanian specialist, is \"...preparing to invade the meaning of Europe.\" I loved some of the \"chapters\" (Vollmann refers to them as parables) and hated a couple of them. I used the Internet to look up stuff and learned a lot. I will read Vollmann again. In hardcover. ...more Some folks enjoy light reading in summer, but I save those extra daylight hours for the heavies. I\u2019d been dying to read William T. Vollmann\u2019s massive cold war epic Europe Central since it won the National Book Award in 2005. Well worth my wait, Europe Central is a work of art as brutal and heavy as the 88mm shells which litter its chapters. Which is not to say the story lacks moral delicacy. Tough times require tough\u2026 well you know. Vollmann utilizes prosopography to present a cyclical narrative Some folks enjoy light reading in summer, but I save those extra daylight hours for the heavies. I\u2019d been dying to read William T. Vollmann\u2019s massive cold war epic Europe Central since it won the National Book Award in 2005. Well worth my wait, Europe Central is a work of art as brutal and heavy as the 88mm shells which litter its chapters. Which is not to say the story lacks moral delicacy. Tough times require tough\u2026 well you know. Vollmann utilizes prosopography to present a cyclical narrative that spans the German invasion of Russia to height of the Cold War in the 1970s. Equivalent German and Russian historical figures are paired and their psychological responses to fanatical ideology are contrasted in a mesh of recurrent tropes. The cast of characters includes German printmaker Kathe Kollwitz, communist documentarian Roman Karmen, Nazi general Friedrich Paulus, and Soviet general Andrei Vaslov (both of whom defect to enemy\u2019s side when captured). Last but not least is Dimitri Shostakovitch whose life and work epitomizes the moral ambiguities and ideological confusions at which Vollmann aims his bright spotlight. Even today musicologists debate the thematic intention of Shostakovitch's body of work. The ambiguity exists only within the personal sphere, within the public sphere the result of hard line ideology is, of course, mass murder. Admist all this death, denial and despair transmuted there is also a love story. Vollmann casts Elena Konstantinovskaya as the love of Shostakovitch's life. She is Shostakovitch's mistress, not his wife and their relationship is idealized in is mind, crystallizing into a perfection which may or may not conform to the reality of their relationship. His love for Elena, or the memories thereof, are like the political fantasies of Hitler or Stalin, i.e., unattainable. The horror of the novel is nearly spoiled by the story of SS officer Kurt Gerstein who clandestinely tried to expose the Holocaust. This is the only section of the book that comes dangerously close to an elementary school morality lesson. Fortunately, at least on an aesthetic level, Gerstein's end is an tragic as the rest. You might be thinking, \u201cBryan this book sounds terrible!\u201d I recommend this book to anyone interested in the Nazi and Soviet culture, anyone interested in the history of the Eastern Front during World War II, and anyone interested in the life and music of Dmitri Shostakovitch. Though cast of characters is based on historical persons, Europe Central is a work of fiction and the primary reason to experience the book is the artistry of William Vollmann. His prose are precise and evoke a modernist tone. Recurring themes, repeated vocabulary, and chronological interlacing weave a snowy bloodstained tapestry across fifty years heartbreak and political violence. Think of Europe Central as a photo negative Tom Brokaw's The Greatest Generation , or a constructivist War and Peace . ...more I'm setting this aside after just 98 pages. It needs to be said that as interesting as his subject matter is, and as inspired as his prose can sometimes be, there lurks in his work a creepy, pervy, voyeur who writes with one hand and whacks off with the other. His work is self-indulgent and the reason he won't let editors change his books is so he can continue his self-indulgence 'til he climaxes. Vollmann and I are done for awhile... EDIT 9/25/14: Okay, I'm going back in. I'm going to read the ne I'm setting this aside after just 98 pages. It needs to be said that as interesting as his subject matter is, and as inspired as his prose can sometimes be, there lurks in his work a creepy, pervy, voyeur who writes with one hand and whacks off with the other. His work is self-indulgent and the reason he won't let editors change his books is so he can continue his self-indulgence 'til he climaxes. Vollmann and I are done for awhile... EDIT 9/25/14: Okay, I'm going back in. I'm going to read the next 100 pages and see what happens. ...more Never trust anyone. Never say anything\u2014except musically, of course. Music is safe because nobody understands it. In other words, only in music is everything clear. As the world burns, they create their art. K\u00e4the Kollwit paints the nightmarish portraits of her dead child, and the Soviet Union proclaims her metaphorology ripe with Communist intent, but . . . ( In the end, her art got supplanted in both zones. A grief-stricken mother holding her dead child is all very well, but perhaps a trifle to Never trust anyone. Never say anything\u2014except musically, of course. Music is safe because nobody understands it. In other words, only in music is everything clear. As the world burns, they create their art. K\u00e4the Kollwit paints the nightmarish portraits of her dead child, and the Soviet Union proclaims her metaphorology ripe with Communist intent, but . . . ( In the end, her art got supplanted in both zones. A grief-stricken mother holding her dead child is all very well, but perhaps a trifle too universal\u2014or, as Comrade Stalin would say, incorrect. For how could our ends be served by implying that everybody, even the enemy herself, grieves over dead children? ). Filmmaker Roman Karmen documents the war firsthand ( And here Karmen has somehow found the ability to do artistic justice both to his subjects and to his heart. Why now? Perhaps because he is in love ). And our unlikely hero, Europe Central \u2019s lifeblood, Dmitri Shostakovich, composes, whether it be for the state or himself, until, eventually, he has accumulated enough material for his Opus 110, an unfathomable masterwork meant to comprise all of his life's experiences, what the dear reader has so verily internalized for 750 pages, which we're only set free from once we can hear with tonally trained ears ( We prefer our personal tragedies, because we\u2019re all cowards and bastards and I wrote an ideologically deficient quartet which nobody needs. I reflected that if I die someday, it\u2019s hardly likely anyone will compose a work dedicated to my memory. So I decided to write one myself. You could even write on the cover. Dedicated to the composer of this quartet ). Through war and peace, love and death, art and destruction, they undulate like no longer magnetized ants in the swarm of a terrible hive mind. Art is love first and foremost, no matter the trivialities about artistic independence. And thus, love in war is a delicate symphony. Why art? If you ask any artist this question, one answer that comes up often is: Because I have to. It's as if a roving demon inhabits the artist, which can only be cured by some creative form of exorcism. Over time, if you're asked the question enough, it becomes the only answer worth giving. Yes, art has been done for lesser reasons. To make a quick buck (think today\u2019s hodgepodge of pop music, which is more like a quick million), to promote one's ego, which is not art in of itself because it betrays one of its core principals: personal integrity. But there\u2019s something immense in the corridors of deep art. Art that has the virility of hurricanes and tornadoes, with the ability to move and conquer. If they chop off both my hands, I\u2019ll keep writing music with the pen in my teeth . . . I believe that any honest artist suddenly denied of their talent would go crazy (if they\u2019re not already) and climb the tallest nearest building to yell their ideas to the world. And in that moment, the audience doesn\u2019t exist. Criticism is impossible to comprehend. An artist has to be selfish (which Shostakovich was), has to shun friends (check) and family (double check) to create something of lasting quality, equal to the hundreds of vestibule opuses we all have lying dormant in our minds. And what stirs passion for that art? In Europe Central , the answer is life itself, whether that be the elasticity of great love, or even, when one looks back on it from an eerily quiet future, a most brutal war. If your art is true, if it's the best rendition of your soul you can possibly give at that time, then an audience exists for it. The hard part is finding what to write about, not the writing itself. Parable stacked on parable, Europe Central is a million-piece puzzle. That's not to say it\u2019s an enigma, or that therein lies some secret waiting to be decoded, but that it must\u2019ve been a pain in the ass to put together in any readable shape and form. (I\u2019m almost not entirely convinced that Vollmann wrote this organically. Mainly, I\u2019m not impressed with the connectivity of Shostakovich\u2019s story. It seems as if Vollmann completed the manuscript and then put in tiny references to him here and there, as superlative winks that yes, don\u2019t worry, I know a story is still being told, while the book's thirty some stories blossom effectively, mostly, only to have their wilted leaves spread over the proceeding chapter.) In a way, Europe Central should be read chapter by chapter, as a platitude of similar but dissimilar stories. It's best not to be concerned with a central story, not at the beginning at least; the only central story you should be concerned about is the war, and again, Why? What makes these characters go to art again and again? In its real but fictitiously embellished cast of characters, Vollmann\u2019s narrators speak with the turning pace of a Philip Glass composition (run-on sentences; scatterbrained transitions), played from the stolid mind of an artist playing music right as those bright notes are being conceived. For Vollmann, this is normally a good thing; it worked wonders for the insectoid war in You Bright and Risen Angels . But here, it\u2019s unreasonable and sometimes, often times, insincere. I agree wholeheartedly with Tom LeClair\u2019s assessment for his review in The New York Times , in which he states, The narrators\u2019 ideological rant in some interchapters also becomes repetitive and can be oppressive. For me, Europe Central would\u2019ve benefited from a third person narrative, one equivocally calm upon the face of historical violence. Instead, the narrators sound like cocaine-doping fiends whose pinky nails have been exaggerated to loop the powder into their noses every other paragraph. This choice of narrative style sacrifices intimacy for an all-encompassing omniscience that encapsulates moments instead of personalizing them\u2014the complete opposite of what you\u2019d come to expect from a first person narrative, and of a writer of Vollmann\u2019s talent. Here, Vollmann is very good at introducing thousands of points in rapid-fire succession, and to think that each could be magnified into fully-fledged chapters is astounding. But chapters don't inherently rely on scenes, but miniature memories, like a composer attempting to remember on the spot a lost tablature to a crowd of virulent admirers. It's a serious detriment to reader fluidity. It's just too bad that, well, you know, Europe Central 's stories and characters are interesting enough, its themes fascinating enough, that it's hard to put down, even if one can't obsess over it . . . Can music attack evil? One virulent camp says no. We\u2019re merely lonely crickets at night symphonizing our wings together; we\u2019ll tire after a while, and the daylight is very boring and bright. Can music attack evil or not? Certainly not. All it can do is scream. Or maybe it depends on when you\u2019re being asked. In peacetime, Shostakovich states, Everything is so fine, so perfectly excellent, that I can find almost nothing to write about. And even then, during war, his art was created out of the ashes of those falling like leaves around him. You cannot possibly dust off and become pure again. It can only be what it is, what it has become. What\u2019s your content? I . . . I have no content; I\u2019m empty. Then say so in your music. One thing's clear. All songs end, eventually. Only in letting great pain coalesce can it be committed to something that makes any sort of sense. And when you go to compose, whatever that may be, gracefully assume reality, while shunning it. An ability to capture a moment freely and perfectly can only be accomplished if one is listening to all facets of life. In this way, Shostakovich has sown a whole field of flowers where the towers and homes of Stalingrad and Dresden used to stand. ...more Some of the writing is transforming. The two pages on the early Nazi book burnings, narrated by a Luftwaffe pilot, are awe-inspiring. The long book does bog down in attempting to be a fly-on-the wall in the Kremlin--but he's factually accurate, as repeatedly demonstrated by the late Robert Conquest. Yes! I've done it, I've finished reading \"Europe Central\" . Seriously the reading time was quite looonnnggg (almost 50 days) . After closing this beautiful-monster-sized-cranium-bashing-brick I felt - OVERWHELMED . All I could say now is \"War is absurd\" .", "Title": "Europe Central"},
