{"Comments": "Fortress of Solitude depicts a world in which there is no such thing as a responsible adult. It might be deemed a coming of age novel except its two central characters,<---M> Dylan (white) and Mingus (black)</---M>, whom we meet when they are both twelve, never grow up even though by the end of the novel they are both in their thirties. Ironically the impoverished Brooklyn neighbourhood where they live does grow up, does become a responsible adult: by the time Dylan is in his thirties, it has become gentrifi Fortress of Solitude depicts a world in which there is no such thing as a responsible adult. It might be deemed a coming of age novel except its two central characters, Dylan (white) and Mingus (black), whom we meet when they are both twelve, never grow up even though by the end of the novel they are both in their thirties. Ironically the impoverished Brooklyn neighbourhood where they live does grow up, does become a responsible adult: by the time Dylan is in his thirties, it has become gentrified. Both Dylan and Mingus have been abandoned by their mothers. Both are brought up by maverick fathers on the same street in the 1970s. Dylan\u2019s safety in the largely hostile black neighbourhood is constantly menaced though his friendship with the streetwise Mingus offers solace and even a little protection. Whether you love or hate this novel will depend largely on whether or not you warm to Lethem\u2019s virtuoso highly detailed prose style. Sometimes he can make you see the familiar in a new and searing light; other times he has a tendency perhaps to over paint his canvases so detail is obscured in overly mannered intricacies of imagery. On the whole I was full of admiration for Lethem\u2019s wordsmithery. He\u2019s among the boldest writer of sentences of living novelists. Fortress of Solitude is a brilliant account of boyhood and especially its defining moments of triumph and humiliation which Lethem gives equal resonance to. He doesn\u2019t go overboard with the bullying Dylan endures, the daily humiliation of being \u201cyoked\u201d. It\u2019s also a deft and incredibly sensitive observation of black/white relations in 1970s New York. Mingus especially is a great character and there\u2019s something genuinely moving and ultimately heartbreaking about the friendship Dylan and Mingus share. It\u2019s also a brilliant depiction of urban New York in the 1970 and 80s, especially with regards to the roles played by graffiti and music. The playful subplot of this novel is a magical ring that enables its wearer to become a superhero.<---F> Aeroman</---F>. Comics, emblematic of fantasy in general, play a major role in the formation of all the young boys. In the scenes where the ring plays a part Lethem challenges your ability to sustain disbelief to the maximum because otherwise this is a work of gritty realism and probing psychology. Music is another theme. And especially soul music because this is a novel about soul, the haunted soul unable to quite find its native ground in the world. (Mingus\u2019 father apparently is modelled on Marvin Gaye.) It\u2019s a much more ambitious novel than Motherless Brooklyn and because of its sprawling nature not, for me, as successful but still a brilliant achievement though it should also be said that the first two thirds is a great deal more engaging and moving than the last third. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) Soon after opening CCLaP in the summer of 2007, one of the first books I had a chance to review was what at the time was <---A>Jonathan Lethem</---A>'s latest, You Don't Love Me Yet ; and as long-time readers remember, I found that book to be a nearly unreadable pile of horsesh-t, so bad in fact that it served as (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) Soon after opening CCLaP in the summer of 2007, one of the first books I had a chance to review was what at the time was Jonathan Lethem's latest, You Don't Love Me Yet ; and as long-time readers remember, I found that book to be a nearly unreadable pile of horsesh-t, so bad in fact that it served as the inaugural entry of my old \"Too Awful to Finish\" essay series, a series I eventually shut down again because of it being just too damn mean. And that's when I started hearing from all of Lethem's fans, telling me that I should give this grad-student panty-moistener another chance, that I had simply picked the wrong book of his to start out with. \"Read <+++>The Fortress of Solitude</+++> instead!\" all these academes argued. \"That's the good one! You'll like that! That's the one that got all the award nominations! You'll like that one!\" So this week I finally did, yet another older title I'm getting caught up with through new \"Netflix for books\" service BookSwim.com, which I'm in the middle of a courtesy two-month membership with, in exchange for doing a write-up about my experience here in mid-December. And it was at this point (in fact, about 50 pages in, the point when I angrily gave up on this book) that I realized that a little theory I've had about the arts for some time now seems to be coming more and more true with every new book I read, with every year I continue being a book critic: namely, academes don't know what the f-ck they're talking about , and in the process are completely wrecking the entire literary industry we all used to know and love. I mean, how else to explain these people's baffling love for this unmitigated piece of garbage, which much like Augusten Burroughs presents a ridiculously overwritten, pop-culture-laced memoir of 1970s Gen-X childhood, featuring excruciatingly precious slang-filled magic-realism dialogue and with insanely too much gravitas assigned to such plotless meanderings as kids watching bad television and eavesdropping on their intellectual parents' insultingly banal conversations? And then I realized -- oh, right, of course, this is an early-2000s novel by a white academe about how much white people suck (specifically, the story of the \"re-whitening\" of Brooklyn starting in the late '70s, after the New York borough turning into an ethnic slum following World War Two, a process called \"gentrification\" that has by 2009 turned nearly the entire city into a Caucasian hipster fantasyland); and man, if there's one thing that's become an undeniable truism by now, it's that back in the '90s and early '00s, academes tended to automatically fall in love with preciously overwritten screeds by self-loathing white males about the horrors of their fellow Caucasians, with the same kind of burning passion that, say, dogs love licking their own f-cking balls. F-CK YOU, SELF-LOATHING GRAD STUDENTS! Stop ruining the entire subject of literature for the rest of us by falsely trumpeting these unreadable pieces of horsesh-t by such preciously twee suck-ass fellow self-loathing academes! J-sus F-cking Chr-st, no godd-mn wonder that the general public has stopped reading novels anymore, when you all keep running around handing out awards to execrable f-cking turds like this! Please, PLEASE, for the love of GOD, no more worshipping of overwritten plotless Gen-X pop-culture-obsessed '70s-memoir drivel! PLEASE! STOP! I'M F-CKING BEGGING YOU! STOP! STOP! STOP! Out of 10: 0.0 ...more I finally finished this thing. It's pretty good, but the first half is so much better than the second half. There is some real magic amidst the nostalgia in Lethem's story of growing up in Brooklyn in the '70s. But the whole beginning seems like it's leading up to some great climax, and that climax never comes. As the main character grows up (an exaggeration for the emotionally underdeveloped thirtysomething he is by the end), he becomes a wanky, self-absorbed snob-rock geek, which may have been I finally finished this thing. It's pretty good, but the first half is so much better than the second half. There is some real magic amidst the nostalgia in Lethem's story of growing up in Brooklyn in the '70s. But the whole beginning seems like it's leading up to some great climax, and that climax never comes. As the main character grows up (an exaggeration for the emotionally underdeveloped thirtysomething he is by the end), he becomes a wanky, self-absorbed snob-rock geek, which may have been awesome during the peak of High Fidelity's popularity (totally Lethem's generation) but is definitely not interesting to me at this point. There is only so much name-dropping and Gen-X navel-gazing I can handle. If Lethem (or his main character, <---C>Dylan Ebdus</---C>, who's hard do distinguish from Lethem himself) stopped for one moment to look at his unique story critically instead of putting it on a pedestal or using it to defend himself from reality, the book would be ten times better. ...more I half expected to find that Jonathan Lethem is one of those authors that readers either love or hate, but was surprised by how mad the people who hate him are. Personally, I fall into the former camp - those who love Mr. Lethem's work. Let me explain why. Jonathan Lethem creates the most absurd scenarios possible and then crafts ingenious narratives around them. To describe a book like Fortress of Solitude to someone not already familiar with Mr. Lethem's work requires a lot of qualification. To I half expected to find that Jonathan Lethem is one of those authors that readers either love or hate, but was surprised by how mad the people who hate him are. Personally, I fall into the former camp - those who love Mr. Lethem's work. Let me explain why. Jonathan Lethem creates the most absurd scenarios possible and then crafts ingenious narratives around them. To describe a book like Fortress of Solitude to someone not already familiar with Mr. Lethem's work requires a lot of qualification. To do so with some of his other stories, his short stories in particular, can be almost embarrassing... There's this white kid and black kid and they come across a homeless man with a magic ring. They get the ring and use it to blaze graffiti on tall buildings in an urban turf rite. Bootsy Collins stops by to chat on occasion... It sounds hideously stupid. But it's not. I imagine Mr. Lethem's process is this: 1. Come up with something absolutely bonkers , like magic rings ( Fortress of Solitude , this book) or a former child star colluding with a mutant crustacean to take over the world (a different Lethem story, \"Interview with the Crab\") or exo-suits that give normal people the physical attributes of great NBA players of yesteryear (\"Vanilla Dunk\"). 2. Make it interesting. I imagine guiding characters like Dylan Ebdus, Mingus Rude, and Aaron X. Doily through a meaningful narrative is a tremendous challenge. I imagine a man who's up to such a challenge derives a great deal of satisfaction from it. It's like being the world's greatest dungeon master: instant pariah status. What I find strange, though, is that Jonathan Lethem is essentially a contemporary of Neil Gaiman. And while folks love Mr. Gaiman because of his command of mythology, fascination with nightmare states, and melodious English accent, they seem to hate Jonathan Lethem. We live in a time where otherwise healthy adults devour young adult fiction. You'd think Jonathan Lethem's work would be right up the mainstream's alley. Only it would be better, because it's not for kids. ...more Storytelling has changed. It used to be that stories unfolded slowly, sometimes even lethargically, until rising to the climactic finish. Think about the classics you like\u2014most likely: slow start, strong finish. These days, stories begin at a rapid pace, but seem to lose momentum by the end. When I think about recent popular titles, even ones I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed, this disappointment is usually present. Maybe it\u2019s the immediacy of the modern-day culture, but it\u2019s rare to find an ending up to Storytelling has changed. It used to be that stories unfolded slowly, sometimes even lethargically, until rising to the climactic finish. Think about the classics you like\u2014most likely: slow start, strong finish. These days, stories begin at a rapid pace, but seem to lose momentum by the end. When I think about recent popular titles, even ones I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed, this disappointment is usually present. Maybe it\u2019s the immediacy of the modern-day culture, but it\u2019s rare to find an ending up to the neo-pace set by the initial chapters/hour (in movieland terms). Unfortunately, Jonathan Letham\u2019s <+++>The Fortress of Solitude</+++> is no different. The story centers around Dylan Edbus, a young white boy sent to public school in a nearly all-black neighborhood in 1970\u2019s Brooklyn, New York. Attacks and abuse run high, but Dylan forges a friendship with his neighbor, Mingus Rude. Despite their differences in family (Dylan from white hippies, Mingus from a cocaine-addicted, formerly popular black singer), they soon share disappointments in that area. Letham paints a strong picture of the charm and volatility of the Dean Street neighborhood. His social commentary on race relations, comic books, music and decades of life in Brooklyn are strong and rarely heavy-handed. Then there\u2019s that slow descent from the great first part of the book, the point where the flaws of modern storytelling hit and bleed out the vein of what could have been one of the great books of the decade. It\u2019s a shame, because the first part is amazing. Not casual amazing, but actually amazing in its craft and prose, four stars and reaching higher. Then the rest of the book comes with a shift in time, perspective and quality. Even though the story finishes fantastical and strong (with one of the rare successful surrealistic uses of what could be superhero powers), the drop from the peak set by the first part of the book leaves the reader in too low of a valley to ignore. Three stars. ...more What a shit storm. This is one of the more plodding books I have engaged in my time as a reader. It ranks up there with one of the only other books I have abandoned, Updike's Rabbit, Run. Updike and Lethem also hold the distinction of being some of the worst writers of prose I have encountered. My god, I hate the way they write. Not recommended. Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5F9Gf... An epic tale of gentrification and crushed hopes, The Fortress of Solitude is one of the densest books I've ever read, each page packed with lives and dreams and misery. It's depressing as fuck and crazy on so many levels, but for the sheer glow of its ambitiousness, it's a pleasure to read for anyone who's passionate about American literature and culture. Lethem seems, as Jonathan Franzen reportedly was while writing The Corrections , to have been trying to write The Great American Novel when he wrote this book. The result was a pretty jumbled, sprawling, and overreaching attempt to shoehorn race, gentrification, obscure pop cultural obsessions, and magic realism (via superhero comic book characters and allusions) into a novel. The settings and descriptions often felt very research-derived, as if Lethem boldly ignored the whole \"write what you kno Lethem seems, as Jonathan Franzen reportedly was while writing The Corrections , to have been trying to write The Great American Novel when he wrote this book. The result was a pretty jumbled, sprawling, and overreaching attempt to shoehorn race, gentrification, obscure pop cultural obsessions, and magic realism (via superhero comic book characters and allusions) into a novel. The settings and descriptions often felt very research-derived, as if Lethem boldly ignored the whole \"write what you know\" thing and used second-hand accounts as source material. All of the accounts of block parties, breakdancing battles, and throwing up graffiti pieces on subway trains felt like hip-hop history lessons copied verbatim from Rap Attack or Can't Stop Won't Stop . Not that they were, to anyone's knowledge, but they were so present that they felt like sheer pedantry, sometimes to the detriment of stronger characters or more focused story arcs. On the other hand, there were some very clever moments, such as the descriptions of the allegorical P-Funk band that visits Mingus Rude's house (Called the Funk Mob, complete with lam\u00e9 pants, silver platform boots, star-shaped sunglasses, and Swiss Alps of cocaine) for whom a character, Barrett Rude, laid down a legendary few moments of music as a session player. Also the device of using Rhino-style boxed set liner notes as a way to outline the history of a group, complete with a male member who became a hairdresser and died of \"pneumonia,\" is pretty brilliant, especially if you're the type who actually reads liner notes. Perhaps Fortress would make a better movie than novel. And that's by no means a putdown. The very last scene, in which the main character is being driven home through a Vermont snowstorm by his father after being kicked out of \"Camden\" College (aka Bennington- Brett Easton Ellis or Donna Tartt, anyone?) sets the mood with Brian Eno's Another Green World album playing in the car. Isn't that what they do in the movies? In prose form, somehow that felt like a cheap use of already too-facile cinematic mood-setting shorthand. In fiction, I feel like you can't use music to set ambience and create atmosphere in the way Lethem intended. I mean, what if a reader has never heard the music you're referencing when it's a central aspect of the vibe you're trying to invoke? This last criticism is pretty minor and trifling, I know, but it bothered me a lot for some reason. Call me picky. ...more Now that I've read this book, I share Lethem's amazement that James Wood reviewed it without mentioning the magic ring. Though the ring vanishes for long stretches of time, it is pivotal at several junctures, especially during the final scene between protagonist Dylan Ebdus, whose story of growing up white in non-white Brooklyn during the '70s this is, and his best friend, Mingus Rude, son of a famous soul singer, tagger, and, eventually, claimed by crack and consigned to the prison system. This Now that I've read this book, I share Lethem's amazement that James Wood reviewed it without mentioning the magic ring. Though the ring vanishes for long stretches of time, it is pivotal at several junctures, especially during the final scene between protagonist Dylan Ebdus, whose story of growing up white in non-white Brooklyn during the '70s this is, and his best friend, Mingus Rude, son of a famous soul singer, tagger, and, eventually, claimed by crack and consigned to the prison system. This intentional oversight caused a minor dust-up between the two back in the early Noughties. Lethem writes a great sentence, that much seems clear to me. Some of the Goodreads comments excoriating him--one even classes him with Updike, who, whatever his faults via-a-visit his female characters, had one of the great styles of the 20th-century, as an example of genuinely awful writing--leave me puzzled. When Dylan's archenemy, Robert Woolfolk, intimidates him into a \"loan\" of his bicycle, Dylan sees a neighbor, a grown-up, down the street. Possibly a savior? Lethem writes it like this: Old Ramirez stood in front of his store and sipped a Manhattan Special and squinted at them from under his fisherman's hat. He was beyond appeal, watching them like television. Such perfect use of simile here: not only can Dylan expect no help from neighbors whom he can clearly see, his impending humiliation will also function as entertainment, a channel endlessly diverting. Even if a reader is turned off by the switches between omniscience and first-person point of view, the shuffling among tenses, and the backward and forwards skips in time, it's a tall order to levy a charge of poor writing against someone who continually in this novel demonstrates an ear and eye for fresh language. ...more I finished this book and I think I enjoyed it. I didn't love it, but it was an interesting read. Still, something felt missing, and I have orbited around this review for several days, unsure of what I wanted to say or how. Then, unfortunately for Jonathan Lethem, I started reading Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, and with one sentence, she sort of demolished this whole genre. This isn't to say that I suddenly didn't enjoy the book, but the distance I was feeling from it crystallized. Note: I finished this book and I think I enjoyed it. I didn't love it, but it was an interesting read. Still, something felt missing, and I have orbited around this review for several days, unsure of what I wanted to say or how. Then, unfortunately for Jonathan Lethem, I started reading Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, and with one sentence, she sort of demolished this whole genre. This isn't to say that I suddenly didn't enjoy the book, but the distance I was feeling from it crystallized. Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more Midway through: Fortress has been sitting on my shelf for over a year. A recent trip (just returned) to NYC, Manhattan, and a dip of the toe into Brooklyn (DUMBO and W'Burg mostly) helped elevate this book to the top of the list. Hours of plane time from the left to right coast and back again makes for some serious reading time. Indeed, Fortress has thus far lived up to it's reputation, both among GoodReaders and the Lit World in general. Finished: The second half was in fact better then the firs Midway through: Fortress has been sitting on my shelf for over a year. A recent trip (just returned) to NYC, Manhattan, and a dip of the toe into Brooklyn (DUMBO and W'Burg mostly) helped elevate this book to the top of the list. Hours of plane time from the left to right coast and back again makes for some serious reading time. Indeed, Fortress has thus far lived up to it's reputation, both among GoodReaders and the Lit World in general. Finished: The second half was in fact better then the first half. I've been waiting for awhile now for a fiction book to bring back from non-fiction, and this was it. It has all the elements a great book should have: well-written, a great story line, characters with depth that truly pull you in to the story. ...more A fantastic coming-of-age tale set in mid-to-late 1970s Brooklyn. Two motherless boys grow up next door to one another: Mingus Rude, son of an R&B singer, and Dylan Ebdus, son of a University Professor, grow up together on their block following first their passion for comic books (the title is drawn from the name of Superman's secret base in the Arctic) and later their love of graffiti and hip-hop. First and foremost a tale of friendship's makings and falling apart, Lethem also adds a health A fantastic coming-of-age tale set in mid-to-late 1970s Brooklyn. Two motherless boys grow up next door to one another: Mingus Rude, son of an R&B singer, and Dylan Ebdus, son of a University Professor, grow up together on their block following first their passion for comic books (the title is drawn from the name of Superman's secret base in the Arctic) and later their love of graffiti and hip-hop. First and foremost a tale of friendship's makings and falling apart, Lethem also adds a healthy dose of race, class, gentrification, loyalty, and memory to create on of the most satisfying coming of age stories that I have ever read. This isn't A Separate Peace (thank god!), and while it isn't my favorite Lethem, it's certainly up there. ...more Now this is a novel - I'm very impressed with my first Lethem, and I look forward to the rest of his stuff. Rich writing, fully immersion into the atmosphere of 1970s Brooklyn - every single aspect of it. Comics, music, school life, everything. I often hear of a disparity between the two parts of the novel, but I didn't particularly notice any decline. A fine book. I look forward to more. Along with The Bronx is Burning which alternates the stories of The New York Yankees and the hunt for The Son of Sam it captured New York in the late 70's perfectly. A fictionalized story of the author's childhood in Brooklyn; at least I hope it is, because if it isn't, then Lethem is depicting as predators, what seems to be every black and Puerto Rican teenager in Brooklyn. If it is autobiographical, then Lethem had the worst luck of any white kid in the history of American urban blight, getting robbed, bullied, and beat up daily throughout his childhood by every black kid that saw him on the street. He depicts this sort of crime and intimidation as a given A fictionalized story of the author's childhood in Brooklyn; at least I hope it is, because if it isn't, then Lethem is depicting as predators, what seems to be every black and Puerto Rican teenager in Brooklyn. If it is autobiographical, then Lethem had the worst luck of any white kid in the history of American urban blight, getting robbed, bullied, and beat up daily throughout his childhood by every black kid that saw him on the street. He depicts this sort of crime and intimidation as a given, whenever he is spotted on the street. I've heard that muggings were an epidemic in New York City for a long time so I have to believe him, to a degree, and hope he isn't exaggerating to heighten the effect of the character's predicament, even though Dylan, the Lethem character's luck is extremely bad. I wish that after a certain point, it would have dawned on him to carry a steak knife or get karate lessons. He reads lots of comics and while in his early teens, creates a flying super-hero alter ego called Aeroman, that he shares with his best friend, Mingus. Here's the story's major flaw: The ability to fly and become invisible is bestowed to anyone who possesses the magic ring, left to Dylan by a bum that his father saved from the streets. The two of them stake out areas of high crime and rescue the victims. Mingus, wearing the super-hero outfit, jumps and flies from great heights: the top of a parking garage, a bridge cable, etc. and lands on the criminals, then Dylan joins and they give them a beating. The ability to fly is presented as a fact: that someone can jump from such a height and not get hurt. Mingus even falls from one of the cables of the Brooklyn Bridge and survives. Why impose this absurdity on a realistic story? It's natural that Dylan wants revenge for the bullying he endures, and a super-hero fantasy is a good(and common with children) way to depict that desire, but to tell it as a fact ruins the feeling of the story because it shifts, in a jarring and unnatural way from realism to bad action movie absurdity. The theme recurs throughout the book and is always a disruptive reminder of what a mistake this element or device is. Towards the end of the book, Dylan gives the ring to his childhood nemesis Robert Woolfolk, so that he can escape from jail. Robert had used the ring before to fly, but Dylan purposefully forgets to tell him that it's changed to an invisibility, rather than a flying ring. Robert takes a leap towards freedom and crashes to his death. Dylan later admits to himself that he killed him for revenge for all the years of bullying. I tried to rationalize that the ring's failure could indicate that it was a fantasy all along, but then why would Robert try to fly with it and why would Dylan admit he killed him? Also, the earlier scenes where the ring is used, leave no doubt that the flying and invisibility are to be taken literally. The story shifts from childhood to mid-thirties, after a digression into the career of Barrett Rude Junior, Mingus' father and ex-singer for the Distinctions. The digression is written as music history and I think could have been worked in as background, in a much-edited version, to the many scenes with Rude Junior in the childhood section. As a separate section, it's too much a change of tone. It talks about the fictional Rude's place among the other artists of the era and is oddly disrespectful of the real music history of the era. The father-son relationships between Dylan and his father, and Mingus and his father and grandfather are what hold the book together and are where Lethem achieves real emotion. Also, in places towards the end when he talks about Mingus in jail and finally visits his mother's old house, where she lived for a while after abandoning him and his father. The teenage scenes with him and people his own age are too full of pop culture references that muddle things. They seem to be more intent on mentioning surface details than any real emotional interactions. Dylan seems to have experienced the whole range of early 80s pop culture: he was a graffiti artist hanging out at block parties with rap crews, then a punk in front of CBGBs. Lots of drug scenes throughout but nothing really memorable like Burroughs, Kerouac or even Edward St Aubyn; mostly bored, clinical descriptions of coke highs or dealing scenes, though there are a few vivid impressions of Barrett Rude Junior holed up in his cocaine seclusion. The scenes when they're younger, like when Dylan and Mingus first meet, and with Dylan and Arthur playing chess, are more real. Generally, the parts about early youth are the best part of this book.The last part describing Mingus's life in various prisons is also very strong, some of the best writing in the novel. The story jumps to some lackluster scenes in his mid 30s in San Francisco, then back to his college days at Bennington[Camden], which are more interesting. There's another lackluster section about UC Berkeley and then the strong prison section. I found the book engaging and readable, even with the flaws \u2013 it has heart. It's my first by him and I'll read more. ...more La Fortaleza 70s, 80s, 90s. Ciencia ficci\u00f3n. C\u00f3mics: superh\u00e9roes. Brooklyn, NY. Adolescencia, amistad, paternidad, divorcio. Nombres como Dylan y Mingus, ah, y un magic ring. Dise\u00f1o gr\u00e1fico. Graffiti. Interracial. M\u00fasica. Drogas. Literatura. Multirreferencialidad. Todo dentro de una de esas mal llamadas novelas autobiogr\u00e1ficas, o semi-autobiogr\u00e1ficas. \u00bfQu\u00e9 demonios se creen que es una novela? \u00bfEs necesario seguir marcando los libros con un g\u00e9nero literario? G\u00e9neros que desde tiempos de Plat\u00f3n se La Fortaleza 70s, 80s, 90s. Ciencia ficci\u00f3n. C\u00f3mics: superh\u00e9roes. Brooklyn, NY. Adolescencia, amistad, paternidad, divorcio. Nombres como Dylan y Mingus, ah, y un magic ring. Dise\u00f1o gr\u00e1fico. Graffiti. Interracial. M\u00fasica. Drogas. Literatura. Multirreferencialidad. Todo dentro de una de esas mal llamadas novelas autobiogr\u00e1ficas, o semi-autobiogr\u00e1ficas. \u00bfQu\u00e9 demonios se creen que es una novela? \u00bfEs necesario seguir marcando los libros con un g\u00e9nero literario? G\u00e9neros que desde tiempos de Plat\u00f3n se suger\u00edan deb\u00edan ser caducos. Ante la incomprensi\u00f3n y la ignorancia. Frente a la corrupci\u00f3n de las mentes y la tergiversaci\u00f3n de la Historia (s\u00ed, con H may\u00fascula, esa gran puta que es la historia y se va con el mejor postor). En esa endeble zona que llamamos por eufemismo \u00abstatu quo\u00bb no nos resta m\u00e1s que enarbolar la bandera de\u2026 \u00bfla bandera de qu\u00e9? De nada. Un comentario m\u00e1s en el mar de comentarios que significa nuestra in\u00fatil lectura de las lecturas que un autor como Lethem puede hacer de su mundo. \u00bfMe gust\u00f3 o no el libro me preguntar\u00eda alguien, directamente? (Con mirada de c\u00e1llate ya la boca y deja el palabreo vano de lado ya y comenta ya). Claro que me gust\u00f3. Me fascin\u00f3. Mejor a\u00fan: le entend\u00ed. Muy por encima del tiempo y de la ubicaci\u00f3n geogr\u00e1fica, ling\u00fc\u00edstica y cultural que me separan de alguien como Jonathan este es un librote, en el mejor sentido de la palabra. No, no es una cima (ni una sima) de la literatura norteamericana del \u00faltimo cuarto del siglo XX de la costa noreste. No. Pero es un gran libro que vale la pena leer para todo aquel que se pueda sentir interesado por una interpretaci\u00f3n de cualquiera de las etiquetas tem\u00e1ticas mencionadas en el primer p\u00e1rrafo. O, de plano, puede atraer a cualquiera que haya tenido infancia. Ese sue\u00f1o americano que es La Gran Novela Americana, y que representar\u00eda el \u00abesp\u00edritu\u00bb de los Estados Unidos puede ser la meta a seguir de muchos autores. Hubo uno, uno de mis campeones, que no s\u00e9 si por osad\u00eda o por vale madre o porque ese d\u00eda andaba ebrio, titul\u00f3 uno de sus libros as\u00ed. En el caso de este libro de Lethem, meter todo dentro de un jarrito y saberlo acomodar queda como anillo al dedo. La narraci\u00f3n realista, cre\u00edble y la conformaci\u00f3n de unos personajes de carne y hueso sirven de plataforma para la fantas\u00eda. Como en las mejores novelas de Sci-Fi y Fantasy, Lethem aborda el mundo real y tangible como algo que est\u00e1 m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de la comprensi\u00f3n simple de las cosas: hay m\u00e1s de un sentido en los acontecimientos. Parece mostrarnos que la ficci\u00f3n es un camino muy seguro a la hora de retratar el pasado inmerso en la memoria: quiero hablaros de m\u00ed sin mostrarme. Pero, para develarse es necesario descifrar un momento, una \u00e9poca, un antes y un despu\u00e9s de ese peque\u00f1o Big Bang, de esa eclosi\u00f3n que significa \u00abvenir al mundo\u00bb, de ah\u00ed el grueso, literal y figuradamente, de este libro. El alcance. La magnitud. Ante la desnudez no nos resta m\u00e1s que aceptarnos como somos. O, transformarnos, deformarnos, cyborgzarnos. O, escondernos, ocultarnos. El t\u00edtulo hace referencia a esa \u00abcasa\u00bb de Superman, o su \u00aboficina central\u00bb, donde \u00e9l pod\u00eda ser \u00e9l mismo sin tener que disfrazarse (aunque nunca se quitara de encima su traje). Esta \u00abFortaleza\u00bb deb\u00eda ser contundente, deb\u00eda tener la fuerza textual de conmover y de enganchar. El soundtrack del libro es buen\u00edsimo, como tambi\u00e9n lo son todas las referencias a las que alude p\u00e1gina a p\u00e1gina. ...more I have so many mixed feelings about this book. The entire time I was reading I couldn't stop thinking about how much I hate Jonathan Lethem. He definitely doesn't believe in humanity, and I'm not sure if he actually intimately knows any black or hispanic people. A lot of the characters were kind of caricatures of hood legends that we've all seen before on Law and Order or Crooklyn. It's racially messy, and most of the messiness stems from its conventionality. Maybe this was on purpose, but I'm no I have so many mixed feelings about this book. The entire time I was reading I couldn't stop thinking about how much I hate Jonathan Lethem. He definitely doesn't believe in humanity, and I'm not sure if he actually intimately knows any black or hispanic people. A lot of the characters were kind of caricatures of hood legends that we've all seen before on Law and Order or Crooklyn. It's racially messy, and most of the messiness stems from its conventionality. Maybe this was on purpose, but I'm not sure why Lethem thought it was important to present us with yet another white male's construction of blackness. At times I thought that he was just writing this book as some sort of 500 page excuse to experiment with the word nigger. You can tell Lethem's got this weird fetishistic relationship with the word and he tries to project it onto black characters. Or maybe I'm reading too much into it but whatever, that and his general disconnect from people of color made me really dislike the author. He's also really longwinded and not as funny as he thinks he is. I found myself questioning wether or not certain parts (Liner Note and Prisonnaires) were written poorly on purpose. Despite (or maybe because of) all of these problems, I still liked the book. I finished it a few days ago and I'm still thinking about it. At times the prose was gripping and it has some awesome passages. I also think that parts 2 and 3 don't detract from the part 1, if anything they work to show how much things have changed and stayed the same since childhood. The last 2 parts also really made me question the main character's maturity and motives. All of the characters are so sad, live such sad lives, which I guess I shouldn't have been so surprised by since the book is called Fortress of Solitude. I liked how depraved and infuriating it was at times and i enjoyed the elements of magical realism. That said, I don't see myself reading anything else by Letherm in the future. Mixed feelings, man. ...more OH MY GOD PRAISE BE TO JESUS I FINALLY FINISHED IT BLAAARGH Oh, and also: thoroughly okay. I could have done without the postmodern flourishes\u2026the fantastical superhero elements of the narrative were sort of handled unwield-ily, as in, they weren\u2019t fantastical enough to really persuade me that yesssssssss! This man can fucking FLY! What else, what else? I don\u2019t know. Lethem\u2019s special irritating self-aware post-ironic, hipper-and-more-well-read-than-thou attitude can be read allllll over this book OH MY GOD PRAISE BE TO JESUS I FINALLY FINISHED IT BLAAARGH Oh, and also: thoroughly okay. I could have done without the postmodern flourishes\u2026the fantastical superhero elements of the narrative were sort of handled unwield-ily, as in, they weren\u2019t fantastical enough to really persuade me that yesssssssss! This man can fucking FLY! What else, what else? I don\u2019t know. Lethem\u2019s special irritating self-aware post-ironic, hipper-and-more-well-read-than-thou attitude can be read allllll over this book (it was, at times, almost a \u201cfictional\u201d extension of his Disappointment Artist essays, and I wished I had started with the novel first, so as not to roll my eyes so disdainfully and so often) \u2013 basically I hated all the childhood and race commentary rendered by adult Dylan Ebdus and grooved way more on, like: a boy, his hippie parents, his best friend, their reckless boyhoods and painful adolescences and Brooklyn. Brooklyn. I think there\u2019s also something to be said for the fact that it took me WEEKS to slog through the first 250 pages of this novel and I finally had to make a concerted effort to knock the remaining pages out, and now that it\u2019s finished I kind of want a shower? I am pretty sure books are supposed to be fun. ...more I feel like the ending really saved this book for me. I found the beginning interesting, but had a hard time working through the middle. The race relations in this story seemed very nebulous and conflicted; I may be reading too much into it, but it seemed like the author spoke through Dylan, who was continuously coping with or processing his childhood in a predominantly black neighborhood of Brooklyn. This was a process that never seemed to have a resolution, and I couldn't figure out if this wa I feel like the ending really saved this book for me. I found the beginning interesting, but had a hard time working through the middle. The race relations in this story seemed very nebulous and conflicted; I may be reading too much into it, but it seemed like the author spoke through Dylan, who was continuously coping with or processing his childhood in a predominantly black neighborhood of Brooklyn. This was a process that never seemed to have a resolution, and I couldn't figure out if this was Lethem's attempt at puzzling out his own demons, or if he meant to send a certain message and just failed with me. Also, memo to Lethem--there is more to my neighborhood than the Brooklyn Detention Center, ok? I know it's tall, but you don't have to bring it up 50 times and ignore every other building surrounding it. Finally, I thought the superhero aspect was very weird until the end of the book. It had a much too gritty and realistic tone to also have the magical realism of the ring. It also invited comparisons (in my mind, at least) to the Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, which didn't help out this book any. ...more I read this a couple years ago, and the main thing I remember about it is that the first half is incredible, while much of the second half is retarded. Maybe now that I myself am older and lamer like the character gets in the book, I'd be able to relate better, and it wouldn't bother me so much.... Anyway, I liked this book a lot. The majority of it's amazing, enough so to make up for the crummy bits, which probably aren't actually that crummy, but only seemed so by comparison. You have to get up I read this a couple years ago, and the main thing I remember about it is that the first half is incredible, while much of the second half is retarded. Maybe now that I myself am older and lamer like the character gets in the book, I'd be able to relate better, and it wouldn't bother me so much.... Anyway, I liked this book a lot. The majority of it's amazing, enough so to make up for the crummy bits, which probably aren't actually that crummy, but only seemed so by comparison. You have to get up pretty early in the morning to write a story-of-young-Jewish-Brooklyn-boy-who-loves-comic-books-coming-of-age that I will love, and Jonathan Lethem obviousky gets up pretty frikkin' early, like way earlier than, say, Michael Chabon, or a lot of the other guys out there. Then again, I'm a sucker for the race card. ...more Jonathan Lethem has a unique talent for fantastic narrative structure-- just really great structural chops-- paired with dreadful, dreadful phrasing. Just horrible, embarrassing, aching-to-be-hip kind of descriptions (on the shit list there with Richard Russo and Michael Cunningham). But the thing is, the sum works. It's a good story, a fully realized novel. Flawed, yes, cloying, sometimes, but a very worthy summer read, and often damn fun. In brief: No. This book doesn't do it. At all. At any time. I grudgingly give Lethem credit for trying to write the \"Great American Novel,\" but it comes off short and ends up being overtly pretentious. And I can't believe they still wheel this guy out at every literary event happening within 50 miles of Brooklyn. Stop! Please, stop! beautiful and dense with poetry, the fortress of solitude grapples with race, segregation, gentrification, poverty, the loss of the american dream, and disillusionment in a deep, interesting, at times playful and magical, fun and a thought-provoking way. though at times i felt like i was immersed, up to my ears, in a testosterone world (where there are almost zero important female characters whose presence plays a strong role in the book, and the most significant female character is significant b beautiful and dense with poetry, the fortress of solitude grapples with race, segregation, gentrification, poverty, the loss of the american dream, and disillusionment in a deep, interesting, at times playful and magical, fun and a thought-provoking way. though at times i felt like i was immersed, up to my ears, in a testosterone world (where there are almost zero important female characters whose presence plays a strong role in the book, and the most significant female character is significant because of her absence), it felt like an important and interesting world to explore. we meet dylan, a young man, doing his best just to survive the day to day of his reality. he wants to fit in, have friends, connect with the other young boys in his neighborhood, but he is also trying to find himself in a complex world that rarely offers easy solutions. and yet this isn't a heartwarming story of an inner personal journey to find peace. on the contrary, the book ends with no catharsis, no solution. just the reality of a strongly segregated brooklyn that is being gentrified at an alarming rate. the reality of this novel is the reality that continues in 2015 post-obama america. there is a moment of beauty at the very end, one that offers hope, but that promise of hope is tempered by the reality of too many young black men in prison, too many of them strung out on drugs, too many with a rap sheet so long the pages feel flooded with the petty offenses, too many who are metaphorically leaping off buildings, believing they will be able to fly. possibly the most hopeful character in the book is dylan's father. though mostly absent from his son's life, we can tell he cares, but he is cut adrift by the defection of his wife. yet, he doggedly pursues his dream, his film, which, the one time we are allowed to \"see it\" leaves our narrator, dylan, stunned, moved, emotional. he feels for the plight of the green triangle, and wants desperately for it to fall and complete its mission. maybe that is what we are all hoping for, the completion of the dream, the one often promised, but so out of reach. does it help to know we are all collectively holding our breath waiting for it? ...more The first half of this book is the best thing I've read in years. The stories of Dylan Ebdus growing up in Brooklyn, dealing with racism and graffiti and superpowers, were amazing. I couldn't put the book down. I loved it. But then the timeline jumps forward into the 90s. Instead of a shy middle-school student, or a punk poseur teenager, Dylan is a whiny rock journalist in 1999. That's not the book I want to read. I don't care about his problems with his girlfriend or efforts to pitch a movie dea The first half of this book is the best thing I've read in years. The stories of Dylan Ebdus growing up in Brooklyn, dealing with racism and graffiti and superpowers, were amazing. I couldn't put the book down. I loved it. But then the timeline jumps forward into the 90s. Instead of a shy middle-school student, or a punk poseur teenager, Dylan is a whiny rock journalist in 1999. That's not the book I want to read. I don't care about his problems with his girlfriend or efforts to pitch a movie deal. The sudden change in focus, and the switch from 3rd to 1st person, made me feel like I was reading a different book. A much worse book. Once I got over my disappointment at the change in the second half, and my desire to stop reading entirely, I found it wasn't all bad. There were some flashbacks to Dylan's time in college, which I enjoyed. And the ending was interesting. I'm still giving the book 4 stars because I loved the first half so much, but I'm disappointed by it overall. ...more This book is uneven and indeed it almost feels like the second part was written by a different person. The first part that deals with the two main characters early days in Brooklyn is full of charismatic scenes. But the second part feels like an anti climax. In the end it's just too long. Lethem is clearly an author with talent but perhaps in future I shall stick to his shorter novels. Despite the above criticisms this is well worth the journey. Lethem' knowledge of Seventies music is impressive This book is uneven and indeed it almost feels like the second part was written by a different person. The first part that deals with the two main characters early days in Brooklyn is full of charismatic scenes. But the second part feels like an anti climax. In the end it's just too long. Lethem is clearly an author with talent but perhaps in future I shall stick to his shorter novels. Despite the above criticisms this is well worth the journey. Lethem' knowledge of Seventies music is impressive and he has a feel for the milieu of downtown Brooklyn that is hard to fake. Unfortunately there are few decent female characters in this book. It's a shame that the story of Mingus and Dylan kind of obscures them. Definitely one for anyone that digs the music of that era, particularly the soul and funk genres. Though it does wear it's hipster groove on its sleeve a little too much. Play that funky music white boy. ...more Avoid my mistake of starting with minor Lethem (You Don't Love Me Yet, what was I thinking), and read this first. Pretty much perfect. It combines my love of tales of young adulthood with my love of tales of young adults being bullied. Warning: don't read this if you are aspiring to write fiction about a male in his formative years, you will give up. I highly recommend listening to the audio book as I did, so you can hear a man in his mid-40s white guy reading doing accents and sing/song dialogu Avoid my mistake of starting with minor Lethem (You Don't Love Me Yet, what was I thinking), and read this first. Pretty much perfect. It combines my love of tales of young adulthood with my love of tales of young adults being bullied. Warning: don't read this if you are aspiring to write fiction about a male in his formative years, you will give up. I highly recommend listening to the audio book as I did, so you can hear a man in his mid-40s white guy reading doing accents and sing/song dialogue for LaLa and other 6 year old black girls. ...more Phenomenal. A brilliant character study, with an engagingly intertwining story, and just a hint of magical realism. In fact the quotient of magical realism doesn't even become revealed as magical until towards the final quarter of the book. (Of course, I may be biased - I live near where the book takes place, so I thoroughly enjoyed the descriptions of places I know well, as they were in the 70s. When a scene takes place in the Walt Whitman Projects, and you can turn around and see this obscure Phenomenal. A brilliant character study, with an engagingly intertwining story, and just a hint of magical realism. In fact the quotient of magical realism doesn't even become revealed as magical until towards the final quarter of the book. (Of course, I may be biased - I live near where the book takes place, so I thoroughly enjoyed the descriptions of places I know well, as they were in the 70s. When a scene takes place in the Walt Whitman Projects, and you can turn around and see this obscure over your shoulder - that has an effect.) ...more Lethem is a really great writer. His prose is observant and nuanced. He creates characters and settings so realized, I felt I could touch them and see them while I was reading. The book is mostly heartbreaking and I was left just wanting to take everyone in this story under my wing in an attempt to keep them all safe. In fact, I sort of want to give Lethem a hug. Mi sento triste e inquieta nel non essere capace di apprezzare questo libro. Capisco che \u00e8 ricco, pieno di riferimenti che la mia ignoranza mi impedisce di cogliere, ma la scrittura di Lethem \u00e8 troppo leziosa e ammiccante per coinvolgermi. I think this novel will sit as a my favorite piece of fiction I have ever read. I wouldn't say it's the best peice of fiction, or everyone's cup of tea, however for me I couldn't put it down, and read it very slowly. It took me to a 1970's, Spike Lee Brooklyn neighbourhood of pastel row houses (see Lee's 'Clockers', same area - Gowanus - however not as grimy). A coming an age story of a white boy growing up in a black neighbourhood, intertwined with a cultural history of stoopball, hip hop cultur I think this novel will sit as a my favorite piece of fiction I have ever read. I wouldn't say it's the best peice of fiction, or everyone's cup of tea, however for me I couldn't put it down, and read it very slowly. It took me to a 1970's, Spike Lee Brooklyn neighbourhood of pastel row houses (see Lee's 'Clockers', same area - Gowanus - however not as grimy). A coming an age story of a white boy growing up in a black neighbourhood, intertwined with a cultural history of stoopball, hip hop culture, soul music, graffiti art and the changing Brooklyn landscape. It's a unique and fascinating portrait, heartbreaking and real. For some unforgivable reason, the writer has mixed in a bit of superhero - magical realism with a magic ring. While this doesn't spoil the novel, it certainly detracts from it. Characters come and go (over 100), each playing their small role in this young mans life. The language is captured perfectly. The novel drops off a little in it's third part, the real shine is in the first 300 pages. My first book my Jonthan Lethem, and look forward to reading more. My favourite peice of fiction of all time. ...more", "Title": "The Fortress of Solitude"},
