{"Comments": "\"It's hollow, it goes on forever.<---F> My god</---F>... It's full of tropes!\" I mean, seriously. I'm not saying this book was complete Harry Potter rip off, but come on. It's got an orphan with mysterious powers, jealous bad guys who are disproportionately threatened by a child,<---M> a kindly old man</---M>, a wizard school with color coordinating robes and folks who don't take kindly to muggles, err, poor people. And yet there was no stew, no tunics, and no prophecy. I'm sure there will be a prophecy later. After all, \"It's hollow, it goes on forever. My god... It's full of tropes!\" I mean, seriously. I'm not saying this book was complete Harry Potter rip off, but come on. It's got an orphan with mysterious powers, jealous bad guys who are disproportionately threatened by a child, a kindly old man, a wizard school with color coordinating robes and folks who don't take kindly to muggles, err, poor people. And yet there was no stew, no tunics, and no prophecy. I'm sure there will be a prophecy later. After all, there are more books! The writing was horrific. The protagonist was dull and suddenly amazing at everything she did. She has the amazing ability to attract the attention of every male in a ten mile radius, either in a romantic way, a protective big brother way, a fatherly way or a scaaary villain way. The main baddie wasn't all that menacing, and didn't have much to threaten our lackluster protagonist with, yet she complied with his schemes rather obediently. I hear the books improve later on, and the author drops a very (<---B>potentially...depending on how it's treated</---B>) interesting conflict close to the end, so I'm interested in seeing what happens. And the used book store has the other two for a buck each, and I am not known for turning down a deal. ...more \"She was special, but in a way he could not have guessed. She had magic!\" - DNF 67% - I am sorry, but I can't take more of the insipid interactions between these flat and dull characters (also, stupid) who keep running around in this vague and generic world where nuance doesn't exist and where everyone generalize to excess. Don't even get me started about the writing, so bland and repetitive that it would be laughable if it wasn't so terrible . I really don't care if it gets better after. I can' \"She was special, but in a way he could not have guessed. She had magic!\" - DNF 67% - I am sorry, but I can't take more of the insipid interactions between these flat and dull characters (also, stupid) who keep running around in this vague and generic world where nuance doesn't exist and where everyone generalize to excess. Don't even get me started about the writing, so bland and repetitive that it would be laughable if it wasn't so terrible . I really don't care if it gets better after. I can't suffer from one more second of <---C>Sonea</---C>'s spechulness . Even if she has magic!!! Even if they finally stopped!! Oh my god. What kind of nightmare is this. PS. Kudos to Cery who manages to widen his already wide eyes in the same dialogue. Now THAT's something I would want to see. *snorts* ...more I was going to put this up on my \"currently reading\" shelf, but it didn't take me long enough to finish it. Or, perhaps, I read more than I check this website. Either way, this book I just finished half an hour ago is a cute little start to what seems to be a simple and inoffensive fantasy trilogy set in a stock-and-trade fantasy setting with basic characters and a plot you would expect. THAT being said, it was interesting enough to make me go look for the second and third books. Or, rather, I WI I was going to put this up on my \"currently reading\" shelf, but it didn't take me long enough to finish it. Or, perhaps, I read more than I check this website. Either way, this book I just finished half an hour ago is a cute little start to what seems to be a simple and inoffensive fantasy trilogy set in a stock-and-trade fantasy setting with basic characters and a plot you would expect. THAT being said, it was interesting enough to make me go look for the second and third books. Or, rather, I WILL go look for the other book this weekend, but only if I find myself in a bookstore. I would recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of the modern paperback fantasy. It's familiar, light, and untaxing; the literary equivalent of a muffin and a cup of coffee. ...more \u201cIf this young woman is a natural, we should expect her to be more powerful than our average novice, possibly even more powerful than the average magician.\u201d This one started off a bit slow and dragged on a bit but for some strange reason I kept on reading as I felt that it would eventually pay off. The characters were well developed and the world building great. The heroine annoyed the crap out of me at times but I'm glad that I held on. I really would like to see where this trilogy goes so I eage \u201cIf this young woman is a natural, we should expect her to be more powerful than our average novice, possibly even more powerful than the average magician.\u201d This one started off a bit slow and dragged on a bit but for some strange reason I kept on reading as I felt that it would eventually pay off. The characters were well developed and the world building great. The heroine annoyed the crap out of me at times but I'm glad that I held on. I really would like to see where this trilogy goes so I eagerly look forward to continuing on to The Novice. ...more This review was written by Manon for RantingDragon.com The redundant beginning Sonea is a dwell that lives in the slums. Everyone in the slums hates the Magicians that live safely, luxuriously and arrogantly up in their Magician\u2019s Guild. Only those of the Houses can become Magicians, and those in the slums are regarded as rats of the city, without any magical potential. Until Sonea and her gang start throwing rocks to the heads of the Magicians that have gathered for the annual Purge (the Purge bei This review was written by Manon for RantingDragon.com The redundant beginning Sonea is a dwell that lives in the slums. Everyone in the slums hates the Magicians that live safely, luxuriously and arrogantly up in their Magician\u2019s Guild. Only those of the Houses can become Magicians, and those in the slums are regarded as rats of the city, without any magical potential. Until Sonea and her gang start throwing rocks to the heads of the Magicians that have gathered for the annual Purge (the Purge being the event where Magicians throw out the poor inhabitants of the slums out of their houses to live on the streets). The stone that Sonea throws at one of the Magicians\u2019 heads, actually breaks through their magical barrier, uncovering Sonea\u2019s magical potential.This will ensue a lot of trouble for Sonea, her friends and family. Sonea is forced to go into hiding as she does not want to join the Guild. For about 300 pages, nearly 50 percent of the book, we follow her running from the Magicians. Then, finally, after her magical potential becomes so strong and she can no longer control her magic and she nearly destroys the city of Imardin, she is caught and brought to the Guild. She is assigned a benign mentor, Lord Rothen, one of the few Magicians actually interested in helping her instead of working her out of the Guild. According to most Magician\u2019s, Sonea should be kicked out as soon as possible, because slum dwellers do not belong in the Guild. Negative vibes In her early time in the Guild, Sonea is manipulated, angered, scared, freaked out, confused, lost and sad. She is insanely hard-headed, almost to the point where it\u2019s annoying. Her being so distrustful of the Guild is not helped by the fact that she saw one of the higher-ups of the Guild coming back from a secret assassination, before she was caught by the Guild. Sonea thinks every one of the Magicians are self-centered, manipulative bastards and in fact, most of them are. What seemed silly was that from both sides, both the developed, educated Magicians and the lowly slum dwellers are full of generalizations. One slum dweller steals? All of them steal. One Magician accidentally kills a boy? They all are senseless murderers. The generalizations became a little too evident and in my opinion, too easy. There are not a whole lot of positive vibes in these books, whereas it\u2019s mostly about Sonea\u2019s very negative, insecure feelings. That 50 percent of the book is about the hiding from and being chased by the Magician\u2019s Guild to only end up there was really very redundant \u2013 I felt fooled when she was caught by the Guild. What is the point of elaborating so much about her running from the Guild, while it could have been done with in only a few chapters? Why should you read this book I\u2019m not a person who stops reading a series or Trilogy. When I\u2019ve started a story, I like to finish it. In this case, I\u2019m glad I did continue to read, because the following two books in the Trilogy, \u201cThe Novice\u201d and \u201cThe High Lord\u201d were both very enjoyable reads. If this were a standalone, I would not have recommended it to anyone, because it was simply a boring story with a lot of redundancy. If you want to read an enjoyable trilogy with a meager first novel, go read this trilogy. I promise, the second and third books are a lot better than this one! ...more This book was divided into two parts and felt like two different stories to me. Part one would be 'The chase' and part two would be 'The actual story'. Thus I will review both parts seperately. Part One: 2 stars Sonea lives in the slums. She and her family have been put out of their homes by the magicians, and now they're back on the streets. This 'event' happens every year and is called the Purge. An angry mob gathers around the magicians, who are protected by a magical shield. No matter how many This book was divided into two parts and felt like two different stories to me. Part one would be 'The chase' and part two would be 'The actual story'. Thus I will review both parts seperately. Part One: 2 stars Sonea lives in the slums. She and her family have been put out of their homes by the magicians, and now they're back on the streets. This 'event' happens every year and is called the Purge. An angry mob gathers around the magicians, who are protected by a magical shield. No matter how many stones the dwellers throw, the magicians won't feel a thing. Enter Sonea. She is really angry and throws a stone with all her might. It goes through the protective shield and hits a magician right in the temple. That is the end of Sonea's life as she knows it, for she just discovered she has magical powers. And the magicians noticed it too. Thus begins the chase. While the magicians look for the slum girl to convince her to join the Magicians' Guild, Sonea is convinced that they want to kill her for attacking a magician. With a little help from her best friend Cery and his Thief associates, she manages to avoid the magicians for a long time. But now that her magical powers have been activated, it is hard to keep them under control - they could end up killing her. This could have easily been written into 50 pages instead of 250. The back story is absolutely necessary to get a picture of what the world is like, in the slums as well as in the Magicians' Guild, but it carried on for too long. A story has to progress. But all is forgiven when the second part begins. Part Two: 4 stars Sonea has been captured and is living in the Magicians' Guild. Lord Rothen, the magician who noticed Sonea's magical abilities first, tries to earn her trust and eventually teaches her how to control her powers. It's obvious that Lord Rothen will be Sonea's guardian once she starts attending classes in the Guild. But Lord Fergun, the magician Sonea hit with the stone, wants to claim guardianship as well - for a whole different reason. Lord Fergun will go very far to get what he wants. And it turns out that Akkarin, the High Lord (basically he's the \u00fcbermagician) has a secret agenda as well. This is definitely the more interesting part of the book. Here we get to know more about magic itself and how it works. Sonea gradually adapts to living in the Guild and becomes quite fond of Lord Rothen. We also learn more about Lord Rothen's former novice and good friend, Lord Dannyl. Surrounded by a whole Guild of old, serious magicians, Lord Dannyl stands out with his curiosity for gossip and gay rumours. An exciting tale filled with magic and mystery, and definitely worth your time. ...more A protagonist that is super special, and a world apparently divided into slums and powerful rich magic people? I like my fantasy in shades of grey, not black and white, and I'm sick of protagonists that are born more special than other people, rather than character development and hard work making them more special, so I guess I should have known this one wouldn't thrill me. But I was looking for a kickass female magician protagonist, and I thought maybe this would give it to me. Pet Peeve: Canav A protagonist that is super special, and a world apparently divided into slums and powerful rich magic people? I like my fantasy in shades of grey, not black and white, and I'm sick of protagonists that are born more special than other people, rather than character development and hard work making them more special, so I guess I should have known this one wouldn't thrill me. But I was looking for a kickass female magician protagonist, and I thought maybe this would give it to me. Pet Peeve: Canavan can't bear to call a horse a horse. Nope. It's got to be a Dolag or a Mehai or a Ihrdsoihg'afdaf. Maybe that's a little sarcastic, but the constant inclusion of invented words for common, real-world concepts is really annoying. The first half of the book drags on and on while Sonea runs away from the magicians who are trying to catch her because if she doesn't get their help she'll die and probably blow up half the city with her. So, it's inevitable that she'll end up with the magicians, but we still get 200 pages of dragging writing about her trying to escape them. Would have been more interesting if her running away was condensed to a couple of chapters of high-impact action. The characters don't seem to have real feelings and I have a hard time believing the relationships between them because of that. Sonea in particular is so untrusting that I find it hard to believe anyone would want to help her out. Not to mention, the writing doesn't facilitate much emotional connection, being colourless, e.g. \" Cery's eyes widened, then he put a hand on her shoulder and smiled. 'They won't catch you.' \" It could have been emotional. It could have been strong. Instead it's just... there. And I didn't find the kickass female protag I was looking for. Sonea is reactive, not proactive, untrusting, stubborn, ignorant and ultimately 'wins' through other people's actions. ...more \u2605: TE ODIO MEREC\u00c9S MORIRRRRR * Da vuelta el libro para leer la sinopsis * MAGIA , ACCI\u00d3N Y AVENTURA EN LA \u00d3PERA PRIMA DE UNA AUTORA QUE HA TRIUNFADO EN EL MUNDO ENTERO No me encontr\u00e9 con nada de eso. Me decepcion\u00e9. No demasiado, porque no le hab\u00eda puesto tantas fichas, pero no me gust\u00f3. Fue aburrid\u00edsimo, ABURRID\u00cdSIMO!!! Spoilers. Sonea es una plebeya que vive entre ladrones y que odia a los magos del gremio porque parece ser que son como la polic\u00eda abusiva del reino. Oh, casualidad, un d\u00eda, de la n \u2605: TE ODIO MEREC\u00c9S MORIRRRRR * Da vuelta el libro para leer la sinopsis * MAGIA , ACCI\u00d3N Y AVENTURA EN LA \u00d3PERA PRIMA DE UNA AUTORA QUE HA TRIUNFADO EN EL MUNDO ENTERO No me encontr\u00e9 con nada de eso. Me decepcion\u00e9. No demasiado, porque no le hab\u00eda puesto tantas fichas, pero no me gust\u00f3. Fue aburrid\u00edsimo, ABURRID\u00cdSIMO!!! Spoilers. Sonea es una plebeya que vive entre ladrones y que odia a los magos del gremio porque parece ser que son como la polic\u00eda abusiva del reino. Oh, casualidad, un d\u00eda, de la nada, descubre que ella tambi\u00e9n es maga, y entonces se desata una serie de acontecimientos que culminan pr\u00e1cticamente en nada, vaya Tehlu Misericordioso a saber qu\u00e9. Les explico por qu\u00e9. La novela tiene dos partes . En la primera parte , Sonea escapa de all\u00e1 para ac\u00e1, de un lado a otro, sin rumbo fijo, conoce personajes a lo tonto, ladrones, muchos ladrones, t\u00faneles, demasiados t\u00faneles y alcantarillas, Cery, oh Cery, el mejor amigo de Sonea, etc, etc. Explotan un par de cosas (solo un par de cosas, por decir unos muebles), ya que ella no tiene control sobre su magia. Oh, como si hacer explotar cosas fuera lo \u00fanico que puede hacer un mago. Y mientras tanto, los magos del gremio se desviven busc\u00e1ndola por todos lados, ya que no puede haber un mago que no sea del gremio, est\u00e1 prohibido por la ley. Dos meses tardaron los magos en encontrarla. Dos meses. Ahora, yo digo, teniendo a tantos magos dentro del gremio, con tantas habilidades y tantos poderes y taaaaaanto talento, \u00bfc\u00f3mo es que no pudieron rastrearla f\u00e1cilmente y encontrarla, no s\u00e9, en dos d\u00edas? Mal\u00edsimo. \u00bfQu\u00e9 clase de magos son? A todo esto, la autora casi no describe la apariencia de los magos. Nos encontramos con Rothen, Fergun, Dannyl, Lorlen y tantos m\u00e1s, y yo ni siquiera s\u00e9 si son altos, flacos, gordos, rubios, casta\u00f1os, ancianos, j\u00f3venes, ni siquiera s\u00e9 si son mujeres ya que los nombres no me dicen nada, y tampoco puedo proyectarlos en mi cabeza, as\u00ed que cada vez que aparec\u00eda uno de ellos, en mi mente aparec\u00eda una persona con el rostro oscurecido, ya que no sab\u00eda qu\u00e9 apariencia ten\u00eda. Y me daba lo mismo Fergun que Rothen, algo que a la larga me di cuenta que no pod\u00eda dar por sentado. La cuesti\u00f3n, no sucede nada . En 200 hojas, Sonea no hace nada . Cery hace cosas, pero eran totalmente irrelevantes para la historia. No s\u00e9 qu\u00e9 pito tocaba Cery en esta novela, en serio. Ni todos los dem\u00e1s personajes. Sonea no hace m\u00e1s que esconderse, ser llevada de un lado a otro, como una aut\u00f3mata. Nada. En serio. Nadah, as\u00ed con \"h\" al final. En la segunda parte , Sonea por fin es llevada al gremio (POR FIN), y Rothen se convierte en su profesor provisional. La cuesti\u00f3n es que Sonea debe aprender a controlar sus habilidades de maga antes de poder ingresar al gremio. Si se queda en el gremio, tendr\u00e1 comodidades, lujos y educaci\u00f3n; si se va del gremio, le bloquear\u00e1n sus poderes y podr\u00e1 volver con \"su familia\" (que eran sus t\u00edos, a saber) y Cery. Lo que ella no sab\u00eda era que Cery estaba encerrado en el gremio por culpa de Fergun, que vendr\u00eda a ser el malo de la historia. No s\u00e9. M\u00e1s de 130 p\u00e1ginas en las que Sonea deber\u00eda aprender algo, en la que se desviven cont\u00e1ndole todo lo que puede hacer en el gremio, todo lo que puede aprender, todo lo que le van a ense\u00f1ar, viajes tur\u00edsticos por el edificio del gremio todo el tiempo a toda hora, cont\u00e1ndote cu\u00e1ndo se cre\u00f3 tal cosa y cu\u00e1ndo se construy\u00f3 tal otra. Y a la hora del verdadero entrenamiento, te lo pasan por alto. Uau, qu\u00e9 poder de la descripci\u00f3n y la narraci\u00f3n asombroso. La novela termina de la manera m\u00e1s predecible posible, como si fuera una pel\u00edcula para ni\u00f1os de Disney. No hay ning\u00fan plot twist ni nada que diga \"\u00a1uh, uh, c\u00f3mo seguir\u00e1 el siguiente!\" Sonea no tiene personalidad. Es chata, chaaaataaaa. La autora quiere plantear a una muchacha joven que se preocupa por los dem\u00e1s, pero apenas si se nota eso, porque lo \u00fanico que hace es preguntar cosas, y no especialmente relacionadas con los dem\u00e1s. S\u00ed, quiere ser sanadora, pero eso no la convierte en un alma caritativa autom\u00e1ticamente. Carece de personalidad totalmente. No ten\u00eda ni buenas contestaciones ni ning\u00fan ingenio, ni podr\u00eda decirse que haya tenido frases memorables. Nada. Una caja de cart\u00f3n vac\u00eda. Cery me parec\u00eda un buen personaje, pero demasiado clich\u00e9. El mejor amigo enamorado de la chica, y la chica no le presta atenci\u00f3n. Por cuestiones hormonales y amorosas, se mete en donde no es llamado, y se convierte en el cebo para que Fergun controlara a Sonea a su antojo. Est\u00fapido, est\u00fapido Cery, exististe nom\u00e1s para complicar las cosas. \u00bfPor qu\u00e9 hay personajes que complican la vida? En serio pregunto. Fergun me pareci\u00f3 el villano m\u00e1s soso del mundo. \u00bfConocen Phineas y Ferb ? Conocen a Doofenshmirtz entonces. Fergun es como Doofenshmirtz. Tiene ideas pero son tontas y al final al \u00fanico al que se da\u00f1a es a s\u00ed mismo. Est\u00fapido, est\u00fapido Fergun. Me ca\u00e9s mal, te hac\u00e9s el malo y alto pelotudo sos. No te banco. Perdonen, se me escapan los sentimientos. Rothen me ca\u00eda bien, pero de nuevo caemos en el personaje clich\u00e9 paternal, profesor, que trata bien al desconocido (Sonea) y que se convierte en el \u00fanico en que ella puede confiar. Y Dannyl tambi\u00e9n me ca\u00eda bien, pero l\u00e1stima que cay\u00f3 en una historia totalmente tonta y sin basamento. En otro libro habr\u00eda actuado mejor. El rey ni pint\u00f3, no se sabe qui\u00e9n es, no se sabe si gobierna bien, si el pa\u00eds est\u00e1 en guerra, si la gente lo quiere o no, no se sabe nada del pa\u00eds en donde habita Sonea. Nada de contexto. Nada. Los odio. \"Sonea se aburr\u00eda.\" POR PRIMERA VEZ CONECT\u00c9 CON UN PERSONAJE AL LEER ESO!!! Yo solo quer\u00eda leer una historia de fantas\u00eda. Una historia con magia. Toda esa magia que me vende el libro, no la tiene. Los magos se la pasan discutiendo cosas que parecen importantes pero que no lo son, hablando mentalmente y pele\u00e1ndose por ver qui\u00e9n ser\u00eda mejor maestro de Sonea. No. Yo quer\u00eda ver cosas explotar, edificios caer, luces volando, bolas de fuego, teletransportaciones, bastones embrujados, mitolog\u00eda, esp\u00edritus y traiciones. No hubo nada. Era como andar viajando en un auto por la ruta, solo que el auto era un Fiat 600 de principios del siglo pasado, que iba a 20km/h, lento, lento, despacio. De vez en cuando ve\u00edas una vaca o una granja a lo lejos, pero nada m\u00e1s. Y cuando lleg\u00e1s a destino, est\u00e1s m\u00e1s contento de que el viaje se termin\u00f3 de por el proceso que fue llegar hasta ah\u00ed. Adem\u00e1s, me siento insultada. Siento que esta novela es arrogante. Les cuento por qu\u00e9: tiene un mapa, un mapa al principio, del gremio, como si con las explicaciones que te dan en 50 hojas no fueran suficientes (y como si me interesara saber d\u00f3nde est\u00e1 cada cosa. A ver, el gremio no es Hogwarts, no me interesa, y ni siquiera Hogwarts ten\u00eda un mapa en los libros. And\u00e1 a encontrar las mazmorras de Slytherin en tu cabeza) , y al final de la novela, hay al menos diez hojas con argot casual del reino, con palabras y frases que se usan habitualmente entre los ladrones de la ciudad y entre los magos del gremio. Les digo algo: en ning\u00fan momento me fij\u00e9 qu\u00e9 significaban las palabras. Me temo que es algo que se desprende del contexto y no es necesario tener un glosario (ni siquiera Maze Runner, con todas las palabras inventadas que ten\u00eda, tra\u00eda un glosario al final. Te terminabas aprendiendo los significados por contexto, porque el libro te considera lo suficientemente inteligente como para que descubras los significados vos mismo, pero no, esta novela te cree tonto y te pone, como insulto un glosario al final) . Es una novela arrogante, soberbia, porque se cree que necesita todo eso, todos esos agregados, cuando en realidad no sucede nada, y ni el mapa ni el glosario colaboran con la historia, solo enardecieron m\u00e1s mi ya destruido respeto que ten\u00eda. Querida, no sos Tolkien ni George Martin, bajate los humos. Te creo que ellos precisen un mapa cuando hablan de tierras y tierras y m\u00e1s tierras de las que si no ten\u00e9s un mapa te perd\u00e9s, pero \u00bfun mapa del gremio? \u00bfEn serio? Como tener un mapa de mi casa. IN\u00daTIL. Ya me descargu\u00e9. Precisaba decir esto tras haber le\u00eddo m\u00e1s de la mitad de la novela hoy. Ya solo quiero vaciar mi currently reading y por desgracia este estaba en ese shelf. Ya no m\u00e1s, por suerte. Mi primera lectura del a\u00f1o que me quiso arrancar los ojos de las cuencas. ...more Telling the story of Sonea a girl trying to live in a world of division where the magicians rule. Not only is she a girl but she is a commoner who could never be part of such a precious world. Well, things change and in an instant Sonea life changes through no fault of her own but all by accident.. The adventure begins when she discovers that she too possess the same precious power, that is ten times the strength of an ordinary magician.. Not only does this shock her but it also shocks the magic Telling the story of Sonea a girl trying to live in a world of division where the magicians rule. Not only is she a girl but she is a commoner who could never be part of such a precious world. Well, things change and in an instant Sonea life changes through no fault of her own but all by accident.. The adventure begins when she discovers that she too possess the same precious power, that is ten times the strength of an ordinary magician.. Not only does this shock her but it also shocks the magicians guild who must find her... I cannot say how much I love this book. It is absolutely brilliant. From the moment you open it to the moment you close it you engulf yourself in the world. The adventure of the world makes you want to know what happens next. I found that it was very well written because you instantly pictured the world that the authur created. You could see the characters almost touch them. I have read the series up the the last release and now wait in vain for the next book. Try it!! I would defintely recommend this books to a very confident reader. A child from year 5 upwards who have master good level of comprehension. Just anyone who enjoys reading. ...more Vollst\u00e4ndige Rezension hier Kurzbeschreibung: Willkommen in Imardin, eine Stadt in Kyralia. Eine Stadt, in der der Unterschied zwischen arm und reich deutlich zu sp\u00fcren ist. In Imardin findet seit langer Zeit die S\u00e4uberung statt. Ein Mal im Jahr werden die Bettler und Obdachlosen aus der Stadt vertrieben \u2013 und das von Magiern. Die Magier gelten als unverwundbar, niemand kann ihnen etwas anhaben. Bis auf Sonea, das Stra\u00dfenkind, welches aus Wut, den Schutzwall der Magier durchbricht und einen von ihne Vollst\u00e4ndige Rezension hier Kurzbeschreibung: Willkommen in Imardin, eine Stadt in Kyralia. Eine Stadt, in der der Unterschied zwischen arm und reich deutlich zu sp\u00fcren ist. In Imardin findet seit langer Zeit die S\u00e4uberung statt. Ein Mal im Jahr werden die Bettler und Obdachlosen aus der Stadt vertrieben \u2013 und das von Magiern. Die Magier gelten als unverwundbar, niemand kann ihnen etwas anhaben. Bis auf Sonea, das Stra\u00dfenkind, welches aus Wut, den Schutzwall der Magier durchbricht und einen von ihnen mit einem simplen Stein verletzt. Es ist klar, dass diese Tat nicht unbeachtet bleibt. Sofort beginnt die halsbrecherische Suche nach dem M\u00e4dchen, welches, als aller erstes H\u00fcttenkind, Anzeichen f\u00fcr eine magische Begabung gezeigt hat. Es wird alles daran gesetzt, Sonea zu finden, bevor ihre Kr\u00e4fte zu einer Gefahr f\u00fcr die Gilde, die Stadt und sogar Sonea selbst werden k\u00f6nnen. Der Auftakt einer grandiosen Fantasytrilogie! ...more This was a very enjoyable read with an interesting story and some very likeable characters. I particularly enjoyed the chapters about magic and entering other people's minds. Loved the descriptions likening minds to rooms in houses. It was all very interesting and made a change from the usual magic books where everyone is throwing magical stuff around and killing each other. The ending was very obviously the lead up to the next book and I have no problem being led. In fact I am looking forward t This was a very enjoyable read with an interesting story and some very likeable characters. I particularly enjoyed the chapters about magic and entering other people's minds. Loved the descriptions likening minds to rooms in houses. It was all very interesting and made a change from the usual magic books where everyone is throwing magical stuff around and killing each other. The ending was very obviously the lead up to the next book and I have no problem being led. In fact I am looking forward to part two. ...more Canavan became so popular that she unavoidably made me interested - she is getting lumped together with big names in industry, such as Rowling, Paolini and even Meyer. Out of these only Rowling is worth something, being the one to cause this avalanche. I was really curious whether Canavan was as bad as other fantasy-related authors loved by the public and finally got to read her books, courtesy of a friend. <+++>The Magicians' Guild</+++> starts simply enough - lowest caste tangles into skirmishes with the Canavan became so popular that she unavoidably made me interested - she is getting lumped together with big names in industry, such as Rowling, Paolini and even Meyer. Out of these only Rowling is worth something, being the one to cause this avalanche. I was really curious whether Canavan was as bad as other fantasy-related authors loved by the public and finally got to read her books, courtesy of a friend. <+++>The Magicians' Guild</+++> starts simply enough - lowest caste tangles into skirmishes with the nobles. The entire society system, as well as everything in this novel, is uncomplicated, designed so as to avoid any thinking while parsing it. Magicians (c'mon, no real fantasy novel calls these guys magicians, they're mages! Magicians do tricks on the streets... oh well, Canavan's magicians are pretty pathetic either, so maybe the name suits) (it is to be noted that the translated version I've read calls them mages, too - one positive point to the translator) are recruited from higher castes and - surprise! - no commoner is allowed in the Guild. The book tells a story of a young girl from lower caste, who discovers her powers and needs to be tutored since untrained mages... magicians are very destructive to their surroundings and themselves. Sounds good enough. Of course, the girl is spooked and tries to run. The Guild tries to catch her, as you can read on the back cover of the novel. And that constitues half of the book. Haha. Lol? The Magicians' Guild in short: - very, very repetitive - it's basically run and hide, repeat; - long-winded sections of narrative on nothing in particular; - very, very cliche; - suitable for 5-year-olds; - villain taken from... I don't know, your 8-year-old sister's real-life school story about evil teachers; - stupid and dumb - i.e.: the characters were pursued by a guy. They hid in hidden passage, behind a wall and... talked and waited there till the pursuer noticed them and started to approach the wall! Only then did they flee. And don't even get me started on their talking part. - any normal author would have squeezed the entire plot of this book in 50 pages!! And sprinkle it with tidbits of information that would make the world and characters real, instead of cardboard, schematic stuff that has been already included in 'generic fantasy elements' listings. Summing up, this book was even worse than I expected. It's young adult directed at brainless readers who require explaining everything and don't notice glaring plotholes. ...more Here's me being ruthless. It's my new year's resolution. I'm giving this away at 16%. I'm not going to rate it because I haven't given it enough of a chance - but the style of writing reminds me of the first Harry Potter book ie written for young children, but without the same charm. The audio narration by Richard Aspel wasn't terrible, but very average - maybe it was what he had to work with? Possibly, if I gave this more of a chance, this would grow on me as I like coming of age, process of disc Here's me being ruthless. It's my new year's resolution. I'm giving this away at 16%. I'm not going to rate it because I haven't given it enough of a chance - but the style of writing reminds me of the first Harry Potter book ie written for young children, but without the same charm. The audio narration by Richard Aspel wasn't terrible, but very average - maybe it was what he had to work with? Possibly, if I gave this more of a chance, this would grow on me as I like coming of age, process of discovery, magic school books - which is where I suspect this is headed. It just hasn't grabbed my imagination and I may have to be in the mood to attempt it again. On top of that I have heard her defend this book as the slow part of a bigger story and not to judge the series by this first book. Maybe if I persisted things would get better - then again, maybe they wouldn't and I'd be kicking myself for listening for 20 or 30 hours before deciding I wasted my time. Oh I feel so ruthless. I may check out her latest book at some stage because she has written a lot of stuff since this debut and so theoretically should be vastly improved. It's just that there's so many books and series I really want to read and at times I'm very aware of how much potential crap I may have to wade through before getting to something I really like. ????? Stars PS - Yes, you can make new year's resolutions in the middle of the year. ...more This was better than I was expecting it to be. I like my fantasy a little darker than the standard and this had some components that fit nicely into that category. A world in which powerful, greedy magicians rule the world and keep society firmly under their thumb. The setting is fairly stock fantasy and the main character's unrelenting stubborness began to really annoy me. Both of these issues kept me from rating it higher than 3 stars but I still liked it enough to read the next book in the se This was better than I was expecting it to be. I like my fantasy a little darker than the standard and this had some components that fit nicely into that category. A world in which powerful, greedy magicians rule the world and keep society firmly under their thumb. The setting is fairly stock fantasy and the main character's unrelenting stubborness began to really annoy me. Both of these issues kept me from rating it higher than 3 stars but I still liked it enough to read the next book in the series. ...more Man merkt richtig, dass er der Anfang von es gro\u00dfem war und es war richtig genial. :) As a first novel it's not bad and, while it's enjoyable enough, that fact shows throughout. The story lacks any real depth, character development is minimal, the plot is extremely predictable and the dialogue very stilted. I get the impression that Ms. Canavan has done a bit of Dungeons and Dragons playing as it comes close to such an adventure - all surface, single-layer action and no deep storyline. There is a little hint of a darker story in there but we don't get to see much of it here - perh As a first novel it's not bad and, while it's enjoyable enough, that fact shows throughout. The story lacks any real depth, character development is minimal, the plot is extremely predictable and the dialogue very stilted. I get the impression that Ms. Canavan has done a bit of Dungeons and Dragons playing as it comes close to such an adventure - all surface, single-layer action and no deep storyline. There is a little hint of a darker story in there but we don't get to see much of it here - perhaps the second novel will be a bit more gripping. ...more I love <---A>Trudi Canavan</---A>'s ability to create imagined worlds with strong characters. Sonea is an ordinary slum girl, poor, yet honest. She has questionable ties that she left long ago in order to pursue a life her aunt and uncle would approve of. When the magicians of the guild come to purge the city of slum scum, Sonea finds herself amongst her old friendships. In the spirit of the rebellion from the city folk Sonea throws a stone at a group of magicians who have a magic shield up. Using her anger, I love Trudi Canavan's ability to create imagined worlds with strong characters. Sonea is an ordinary slum girl, poor, yet honest. She has questionable ties that she left long ago in order to pursue a life her aunt and uncle would approve of. When the magicians of the guild come to purge the city of slum scum, Sonea finds herself amongst her old friendships. In the spirit of the rebellion from the city folk Sonea throws a stone at a group of magicians who have a magic shield up. Using her anger, she wishes the stone would break through the force field, and it does. The rock strikes a magician in the side of the head, causing her to become the sole target of a city-wide search. Sonea makes various ties with thief's in a desperate attempt to out-smart the magicians. What she and her friends don't realise is the deadly magical potential growing inside of her. Having the magicians catch up to them is in the end what saves her, her friends and the city from harm. I love Sonea's character, but I like Rothen more. Rothen is the magician who feels a sympathy for Sonea and shows her a better life in the magicians guild. While, the first book sets the scene for the characters, the second book is by far my favourite. I read this recently, and it's my second time reading the series. I hope to be able to write fiction as well as Trudi one day. I highly recommend it. ...more Reading through this felt like trudging through mud. The writing was horrible, it was so dry and lifeless that I had to push myself really hard to reach even a quarter of the book. The characters are cardboard cutouts, having some traits borrowed from other more successful novels. And don't get me started on the dialogue. It was nightmarish. The magic in this book has no construct to it, its just random people reading thoughts and throwing balls of fire. No joke. The protagonist is a scared little Reading through this felt like trudging through mud. The writing was horrible, it was so dry and lifeless that I had to push myself really hard to reach even a quarter of the book. The characters are cardboard cutouts, having some traits borrowed from other more successful novels. And don't get me started on the dialogue. It was nightmarish. The magic in this book has no construct to it, its just random people reading thoughts and throwing balls of fire. No joke. The protagonist is a scared little girl do just happens to be able to do everything. If I've read about a girl or guy coming out of poverty because of magic, I've heard it a million times. There's nothing new in this novel, it adds nothing on top of the plethora of other fantasy novels. This feels like the work of someone who's written a fantasy novel just after reading a mediocre fantasy novel. Just plain ridiculous. However, if the target audience was not for anyone above 12, then I guess it could provide some entertainment (very little), but then again we do bore the hell out of our kids. ...more Can't stop to review. Must begin next book immediately: This book started off on the wrong foot for me, with a contradiction in the first paragraph (is the wind howling because of what it sees or is it silent because of what it sees?). The next few chapters did little to improve my opinion. The characters were stereotyped and the description clumsy. There were info dumps about how the world worked. There were words changed simply to make the world feel different\u2014for example, ale became bol and there were substituted words for tea, coffee and trouble. This book started off on the wrong foot for me, with a contradiction in the first paragraph (is the wind howling because of what it sees or is it silent because of what it sees?). The next few chapters did little to improve my opinion. The characters were stereotyped and the description clumsy. There were info dumps about how the world worked. There were words changed simply to make the world feel different\u2014for example, ale became bol and there were substituted words for tea, coffee and trouble. Some very lazy world-building right there. Having familiarised the reader with everything, it picked up a little bit. However, overall it remained a very unsatisfying read. The characters didn\u2019t seem to develop much (with the possible exception of Cery). There was no explanation as to why Sonea wanted to go home so badly. And home to where, given that had been effectively destroyed in the beginning? Even setting that aside, the reader may have sympathised more if they\u2019d been allowed to see more of what her life was like there. Instead we end up with cardboard cutouts of parents. All in all, I feel that there are better stories out there waiting to be published. ...more I didn't hate it, but I couldn't finish it. The multiple POVs worked against it, taking away all sense of mystery and suspense. You just sit waiting for the characters to work their misunderstandings out, knowing that eventually they will; it's just a question of how long it'll take. And boy, does it take a long time. Eventually I just decided it wasn't worth the wait. The characters were all very simple and uninteresting to me. They're good or they're bad, they're male or they're female, but ve I didn't hate it, but I couldn't finish it. The multiple POVs worked against it, taking away all sense of mystery and suspense. You just sit waiting for the characters to work their misunderstandings out, knowing that eventually they will; it's just a question of how long it'll take. And boy, does it take a long time. Eventually I just decided it wasn't worth the wait. The characters were all very simple and uninteresting to me. They're good or they're bad, they're male or they're female, but very little stands out about them and they lack any real complexity (despite a few attempts at it). Nothing much happens in the novel (honestly the first half could've easily just been a couple chapters), and when there isn't much plot the writing and the characters have to work even harder to carry the weight. Unfortunately, this writing and these characters are nothing to write home about. The potential is there (sort of), but the execution falls flat. It's harmless, though. Doesn't challenge or offend. I could see it being enjoyable to younger readers who aren't looking for more than a simple story. ...more I wasn't too thrilled at the first part, but the second part kind of makes up for it, and it seems like there could be interesting developments in the two other books. Stand: 2010 Ein junges M\u00e4dchen aus \u00e4rmlichen Verh\u00e4ltnissen, das den \u00fcberheblichen Magiern mal zeigt wo's langgeht? Jawoll! Allein die Grundidee der Geschichte hat mich schon begeistert. Sonea ist ein sehr sympathischer Charakter. Durch ihre Verbindungen zu den Dieben und ihre Vergangenheit in einer Stra\u00dfenbande verliert sie auch diesen Ich-bin-die-Unschuld-vom-Lande-Charakter, der so vielen Fantasy-Hauptcharakteren anlastet. Sie ist stark und meist auch selbstbewusst. Aber sie hat auch ihre schwac Stand: 2010 Ein junges M\u00e4dchen aus \u00e4rmlichen Verh\u00e4ltnissen, das den \u00fcberheblichen Magiern mal zeigt wo's langgeht? Jawoll! Allein die Grundidee der Geschichte hat mich schon begeistert. Sonea ist ein sehr sympathischer Charakter. Durch ihre Verbindungen zu den Dieben und ihre Vergangenheit in einer Stra\u00dfenbande verliert sie auch diesen Ich-bin-die-Unschuld-vom-Lande-Charakter, der so vielen Fantasy-Hauptcharakteren anlastet. Sie ist stark und meist auch selbstbewusst. Aber sie hat auch ihre schwachen Momente. Man kann sie super verstehen und ihre Handlungsweisen nachvollziehen. Auch die anderen im Buch vorkommenden Charaktere sind sehr authentisch. Durch die ab und an wechselnden Sichtweisen bekommt man auch einen besseren Einblick in ihre Handlungsweisen. Cery war mir beispielsweise von ersten Moment an sympathisch, genau wie Dannyl und Rothen. Der Konflikt zwischen arm und reich ist ja so alt wie die Welt, aber durch die \"S\u00e4uberung\" (Einmal im Jahr werden die \u00e4rmeren Menschen aus der Stadt gejagt) kommt noch ein diskussionsw\u00fcrdiger Aspekt hinzu. Man fiebert regelrecht mit Sonea mit und hofft darauf, dass sie sich endlich entscheidet, Magierin zu werden um es so manch einem in der Gilde zu zeigen. Allerdings vergeht bis zu diesem Zeitpunkt eine laaange Zeit. Nicht dass es bis dahin langweilig zugehen w\u00fcrde. Im Gegenteil, es ist sogar sehr spannend, aber man fragt sich doch st\u00e4ndig, wann das Unvermeidbare denn nun eintritt und Sonea gefangen wird. Die Magie ist in diesem Buch sehr fantasievoll entwickelt worden. Man sagt nicht einfach einen Zauberspruch auf, schwingt den Zauberstab und TATA eine Taube fliegt aus dem Hut. Nein, hier ist die Magie eine in einem verborgene Kraftreserve die der Magier lenken und leiten kann um Magie zu wirken. Ignoriert man die Magie jedoch, so entl\u00e4dt sie sich selbst und das ist seeeehr unangenehm. Trudi Canavan hat eine tolle Art zu schreiben. Ich hatte zun\u00e4chst das erste Buch der \"Zeitalter der f\u00fcnf\"-Reihe begonnen, war aber nicht gerade begeistert. Bei Die Rebellin war das anders. Es hatte mehr Charme und war auch sehr viel mitrei\u00dfender. Gef\u00fchlvoll nicht zu vergessen... Auch wenn es in diesem Buch kaum um Liebe geht. In den sp\u00e4teren B\u00e4nden ist das anders, aber ich war froh einmal ein Buch in den H\u00e4nden zu haben, in dem die Liebesgeschichte keine allzu wichtige Rolle eingenommen hat. ...more I would have loved the book a lot more, but the ending felt like a cligghanger that was to set up for the next book in the series as setting the stage. Because of that, the book was very predictable, but well written, making me wanting to read the rest of the trilogy. This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ In the city of Imardin every year magicians drive the Thieves, beggars and the poor out of the city without any trouble, until one year a young woman called Sonea is able to break through their magical barrier. Now, the hunt is on, as the magicians to find her before she destroys the city and herself. Meanwhile, Sonea is trying to hide from them and the bounty on her head by taking refuge with the Thieves. The Magici This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ In the city of Imardin every year magicians drive the Thieves, beggars and the poor out of the city without any trouble, until one year a young woman called Sonea is able to break through their magical barrier. Now, the hunt is on, as the magicians to find her before she destroys the city and herself. Meanwhile, Sonea is trying to hide from them and the bounty on her head by taking refuge with the Thieves. The Magicians Guild, the first book in the Black Magician trilogy, is my favourite series ever so I may not be as unbiased as I wish. This book does start a bit slow but has a brilliant mix of humour, action and suspense, and in my opinion is a brilliant story with a certain spark, which I have seen in very few books. Canavan is brilliant at writing characters, because, even though there are different points of view, they all have their own unique voices. Sonea is a character whom I really admire because, even though she has not had the best upbringing, she is still a kind character, who is brave and very loyal to those she cares about. The other main characters are really likeable as well, especially Cery who is really devoted to Sonea and would do anything to protect her and Rothen who is a kind fatherly character. The villain in this book has really understandable motives, and believes that what he is doing is the right thing, for both himself and the Magicians Guild This is a brilliant fantasy book and whilst it is a bit slow at the start, if you stick with it, it gets MUCH better. I would recommend this book to everyone but especially those who like Maria V Snyder and Tamora Pierce. ...more This book was a very easy and enjoyable read and I will definitely be continuing this series! I enjoyed each different POV in this book and thought they all really added to the story. I liked each character and although we learn a lot more about them as the book progresses, there are still mysteries about their pasts that I am intrigued to learn more about in future books. It was great to read about a society with magic that has a university to teach students. (Completely different from Harry Pott This book was a very easy and enjoyable read and I will definitely be continuing this series! I enjoyed each different POV in this book and thought they all really added to the story. I liked each character and although we learn a lot more about them as the book progresses, there are still mysteries about their pasts that I am intrigued to learn more about in future books. It was great to read about a society with magic that has a university to teach students. (Completely different from Harry Potter) I really enjoyed this new world and found its magic system very interesting. I would liked to have read more world building but the author does reveal more about the world as the book progresses and as the main character learns. The plot was very enjoyable. Although it wasn't the most action packed plot I still found myself really excited to pick this up every day and nervous to see how it ended. Canavan's writing is really lovely and I would definitely recommend this book. The main conflict is resolved by the end of this book however seeds are planted for future books that have me very interested to read more. ...more This book was interesting . But let's keep it short. The first 50-100 pages we full of action, strange and unusual things happened, a hunt started and the protagonist had to hide. It was thrilling. Then, the hiding and searchin continued... I was okay with it, but it continued for half of the book what was a bit annoying after a while because more and more repetitions appeared and the author was just walking around the decisive part. Then, it happened! Finally! I thought it would get better. It d This book was interesting . But let's keep it short. The first 50-100 pages we full of action, strange and unusual things happened, a hunt started and the protagonist had to hide. It was thrilling. Then, the hiding and searchin continued... I was okay with it, but it continued for half of the book what was a bit annoying after a while because more and more repetitions appeared and the author was just walking around the decisive part. Then, it happened! Finally! I thought it would get better. It didn't. There were just too many describtions and dialogues that were not necessary at all and some absolutely useless explanations. Besides, the protagonist, Sonea, acted damn stupid and stubborn most of the time, her jealous friend wasn't any better and the good magicians were a bit too patient with Sonea who couldn't decide what to do until the very last page. The book was just too long and it had a lack of plot. A pity, but true. Don't know if it's better to stop right here or continue reading the trilogy... ...more The first half of this book is a game of hide and seek, which eventually got very tiresome. It didn't serve any purpose that I could tell. The author could easily have scrapped at least a hundred pages, because all she did was repeating herself. However, once I got past those 200-something pages it actually turned out to be a nice book. I enjoyed it from there on and it has some fine moments, but I wouldn't put another book aside for it. DNF Pens\u00e9 que me iba a gustar pero fue muy aburrido, la trama no iba a ning\u00fan lado y no avanzaba m\u00e1s. Adem\u00e1s no conect\u00e9 con ning\u00fan personaje aunque admito que me da curiosidad la relaci\u00f3n de *inserte nombre de la protagonista* (FUCK, ni lo recuerdo) y Lord Akkarin (algo as\u00ed o parecido se llamaba el tipo) quiz\u00e1 me lea el tercer libro solo por eso. El libro es impresionante. Desde la calidad del texto hasta la introducci\u00f3n a este m\u00e1gico mundo creado por la autora. Es una de mis novelas fant\u00e1sticas preferidas. Pueden leer la rese\u00f1a completa en mi blog http://pardonmispanglish.blogspot.com...", "Title": "The Magicians' Guild"},
