{"Comments": "You know the worst thing about these books? They're like cotton candy. On face they look incredibly filling and satisfying but then you bite into them and the fluffy candy mass turns into so much sugar and you're just as hungry when you're finished as you were when you started. Except now you're out of money and your mom wants you to ride the Ferris wheel with your little sister. I've devoured all seven of the Sookie books and now I want more, except there aren't any more. Yet. No one should conf You know the worst thing about these books? They're like cotton candy. On face they look incredibly filling and satisfying but then you bite into them and the fluffy candy mass turns into so much sugar and you're just as hungry when you're finished as you were when you started. Except now you're out of money and your mom wants you to ride the Ferris wheel with your little sister. I've devoured all seven of the Sookie books and now I want more, except there aren't any more. Yet. No one should confuse these books for great literature, but they are sure as hell entertaining. ...more OK, so I love the HBO series \"True Blood\" and wanted to learn more, so,<---M> like a fool</---M>, I went to Amazon.com and bought a specially priced box set of the first 7 books. What. A.<---F> Mistake</---F>. The first two books of the series, \"Dead Until Dark\" and \"Living Dead in Dallas\" were passable. The author certainly has a great imagination, which is the foundation of great storytelling. But the main character, <---C>Sookie Stackhouse</---C>, telepathic waitress from Bon Temps, LA., is an unbearable, anti-feminist, hypocritical OK, so I love the HBO series \"True Blood\" and wanted to learn more, so, like a fool, I went to Amazon.com and bought a specially priced box set of the first 7 books. What. A. Mistake. The first two books of the series, \"Dead Until Dark\" and \"Living Dead in Dallas\" were passable. The author certainly has a great imagination, which is the foundation of great storytelling. But the main character, Sookie Stackhouse, telepathic waitress from Bon Temps, LA., is an unbearable, anti-feminist, hypocritical and just downright bitchy female who turned me off so entirely I prayed for her death at the hands of any demon/fairy/vampire/shifter/plain old human. There are themes in some of these books that set my teeth on edge: Sookie is raped (yes! although even the author calls it \"near-rape\" later in the books) by her ex-boyfriend, Vampire Bill. But, of course, he'd been starved and...wait for it... he couldn't help himself. Sound familiar? But it gets better--later that night, that very same night that she was viciously bitten, drained of nearly all her blood and raped by this man, she is comforted BY HIM and lies peacefully in his embrace. I wish I were kidding. He's REALLY sorry, ladies. He wasn't himself. Sookie's trauma is minimal. Wow. Maybe she can teach \"talent\" this to other women. Granted, vampires really aren't themselves when they're starved--very few can show control, although some can. But it seems to me that, given the history of rape not only in this country but worldwide, to set foot into this territory is dangerous and misogynist. And it baffles the mind to believe, even if she did forgive him, that Sookie could stand to be in the same room, let alone be physically comforted, by her attacker only hours after the attack. GAWD, did that one stick in my craw. It was truly offensive. Later in the series, Sookie, working for money from vampires, who are clearly dangerous creatures and who have repeatedly put her life in terrible danger (hey, but she needs the money, y'all! She's poor and she won't go beggin'!) is able, with the help of fellow telepath Barry the Bellboy, to find live bodies in the rubble of a bombing which she has escaped. These are the bodies of vampires and their human minions, mostly. <---A>Charlaine Harris</---A>, the writer of the series, even goes so far as to mention 9/11. When Sookie is approached by \"the government\" in the form of an aging rescue worker, she and Barry run from him to hide their identities. She doesn't want to use her powers for the government for search and rescue. Yes, she would rather be a waitress who barely subsists, who has to work to make extra money for creatures who nearly kill her and regularly put her life in danger than work for the US government in search and rescue. Cuz hey, ya'll, she loves her life in Bon Temps. It's her life. Well, yes, it sure is. And what a great life it is, Sookie! You're regularly beaten, raped, hospitalized, shot--your life's in danger almost all the time, you've been horribly betrayed and no one in your hometown likes you much as they think you are \"crazy Sookie\" for your \"curse\" (what she calls the gift of telepathy). Yeah, I can see why you'd want to stay there and not help at bombing sites for good money doing good for actual regular humans. Yup. Sure. There are so many staggering leaps (or lacks) of logic in these books I can't even enumerate them. The bombs set to kill them al in this book were left in UNCLAIMED BAGGAGE--yes, in a post-9/11 America. Like the bomb squad wouldn't have come in within hours of a hotel employee seeing unclaimed baggage with nebulous, almost unreadable tags. Sure, Charlaine. Harris has a great imagination, but the sad fact is, the woman cannot write. Her prose is boring, much of it is filler and she stuffs so many plots and sub-plots into her books that it's tantamount to watching a Jerry Bruckheimer movie on steroids. You want to scream, \"enough already!\" after a certain number of ridiculous and unnecessary plot points. (Well, you just want to scream). Also, the writing is somewhat hard to follow due to just plain bad writing and editing. I had to re-read simple sentences several times because I had no idea to what Harris was referring. And the \"previously on Sookie\" plot synopses that pepper every novel after \"Dead Until Dark\" are clumsy and omnipresent. In a numbered series, why is this even necessary? Harris should've given her ideas to Alan Ball, or a writer who could do them justice without the seemingly requisite dose of Harris misogyny, plot overload, skimpy character development and crap writing. It could've been a great fantasy world and Sookie could've been a great character/heroine. But she is awful and the books are awful. I take extreme exception to Sookie's character and its casual hypocrisy, false moralizing, general poor-mouthing and above all, her willingness (or compulsion?) to be a victim time after time after time, having learned nothing. But hey, she's so beautiful and all the supernatural men adore her, so isn't that enough? These are romance novels with a lot of violence and some fantasy thrown in. And they're not written as well as most romance novels, so that ought to scare you. Hell, I've seen better writing in fanfiction and that is downright scary. According to HBO threads, there's already \"Sookie hate\" and the \"True Blood\" Sookie is miles and miles better than the book \"Sookie\", so there you have it. Perhaps the most maddening thing was that I really couldn't stop reading this series of awful. I wanted simply to see what happened next. Harris' imagination is really great, but her characters, her tone, her abysmal writing and everything else, made me really dislike this entire series. It was the strangest disconnect between great imagination and writing I've ever encountered. Oh yeah and if Quinn said \"Babe\" one more time, I was going to light the book on fire. ...more Snooze fest. The avalanche of characters and the painful descriptions of the wedding just came so ridiculous, and I had to skip many pages. I am not the biggest fan of Quinn -- so that could be my reluctance to this book. I just wish Sookie would go to Eric and stop fighting her feelings. I quite enjoyed this book, although it did remind me a bit of \u2018Living Dead in Dallas\u2019 where Sookie is also asked to go with the vampires to use her telepathic abilities, and finds another telepath called Barry, who also shows up in this one. This book was a bit slow and heavy-going in places, but I still enjoyed it, and I liked the unexpected twist at the end, as I really didn\u2019t see it coming! (view spoiler) [ Who knew that the Fellowship would blow up the hotel, leaving loads of vampires burned o I quite enjoyed this book, although it did remind me a bit of \u2018Living Dead in Dallas\u2019 where Sookie is also asked to go with the vampires to use her telepathic abilities, and finds another telepath called Barry, who also shows up in this one. This book was a bit slow and heavy-going in places, but I still enjoyed it, and I liked the unexpected twist at the end, as I really didn\u2019t see it coming! (view spoiler) [ Who knew that the Fellowship would blow up the hotel, leaving loads of vampires burned or missing limbs?! Shocking! (hide spoiler) ] 7 out of 10[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more **POSSIBLE SPOILERS** Again, I have to mention that this series is in desperate need of a decent editor. I mentioned this in my review of Book 5 (Dead as a Doornail): \"Jason's boss is Shirley (Catfish) Hennessey in Book 4, but in Book 5, all of a sudden he's Shirley (Catfish) Hunter . What?!?\" In Book 7, we're now back to a version of Hennessey, although it's misspelled as \"Hennessy\". This series as a whole, is interesting, mysterious and sexy. I feel the need to find out where this is all going, **POSSIBLE SPOILERS** Again, I have to mention that this series is in desperate need of a decent editor. I mentioned this in my review of Book 5 (Dead as a Doornail): \"Jason's boss is Shirley (Catfish) Hennessey in Book 4, but in Book 5, all of a sudden he's Shirley (Catfish) Hunter . What?!?\" In Book 7, we're now back to a version of Hennessey, although it's misspelled as \"Hennessy\". This series as a whole, is interesting, mysterious and sexy. I feel the need to find out where this is all going, but this book certainly felt like it was missing something that contributed to the earlier books' \"unputdownability.\" Maybe it was Sookie and Bill's relationship, which I loved, that kept me wanting more. Even though I knew it couldn't last through the entire 8 book series (so far, anyway), I have held out hope for their relationship. There are hints that a reconciliation may be in the works, but it seems unlikely that will happen at this point. The more I think about the later books in the series, the more Sookie frustrates me. She burns bridges before she's even crossed them fully, and cuts people entirely out of her life, for the silliest reasons I have ever seen. She holds grudges and makes off-the-cuff life-changing decisions that make no sense to me. Maybe it is her sense of pride that causes her to do this, or maybe she is jaded by being able to know peoples' intimate thoughts, I just don't know. I still don't understand why she was so upset with Alcide. Please, someone explain it to me. Really. So he knew about Debbie. So? He had abjured her, and its not like he was going to turn Sookie in, or kill her. I think that Sookie was pissed at him for having the audacity to know what happened and still like her. Or, how about this mystery... Why was Sookie angry with Quinn after finding out he was a fighter? Hmm? These things are lost on me. I don't get what the big deal is. But anyway, I'm ranting. Nothing was resolved for me in this book like I had hoped at the end of the 6th book. I'll renew that hope for the 8th book, and also up the ante and hope that Sookie learns to relax a little and stop acting so damn high & mighty. She is not perfect herself, so I wish she would stop expecting others to be. *nod* ...more One of the consequences of reading these in rapid succession is that it's easier to catch continuity errors. I'm on Chapter 2 and have spotted two. Harris has Sookie think about how she's 26, but Sookie was 26 in the very first book and more than a year has elapsed since the events in that book. She also thinks about how Selah Pomphrey has been dating Bill for \"weeks,\" but Selah has been dating bill since Book 5, and that book was set in late winter/early spring. This book is set in late Septemb One of the consequences of reading these in rapid succession is that it's easier to catch continuity errors. I'm on Chapter 2 and have spotted two. Harris has Sookie think about how she's 26, but Sookie was 26 in the very first book and more than a year has elapsed since the events in that book. She also thinks about how Selah Pomphrey has been dating Bill for \"weeks,\" but Selah has been dating bill since Book 5, and that book was set in late winter/early spring. This book is set in late September, which would mean Selah and Bill have been dating for roughly six months. These kinds of things annoy me. Quinn continues to strike me as smarmy. I'm not into the Sookie/Quinn relationship at all, and the descriptions of his \"white teeth\" are starting to grate on me. --- I may be nearing the end of my tolerance for this series after reading the most gawdawful sex scene last night. I imagine it was supposed to be steamy, but it was just stupid, with stupid descriptions and inane dialogue. At one point, Sookie has a thought about how Quinn is looking at her body like a buffet and he doesn't know where to start. So she points at her boobs and says, \"First course.\" My eyes rolled so hard I got a headache. --- Some interesting world-building and vampire politics here, but nothing spectacular until the climactic explosion. There are a few good Sookie/Eric moments I'm hoping are the precursor for things to come, but I'm taking a break from this series for now. ...more My absolute favorite Sookie stackhouse to date. A lot of stuff happens in this book, but towards the end the action is great and goes somewhere you weren't really sure Ms. Harris would take you. Sookie travels to a Vampire Summit with Queen Sophie-Ann's entourage, which lends to some hilarious moments with different vamps and the fangbangers at their side. Like I said before, there is a lot more action then in previous books which is just exciting. Plus Quinn and Eric play for sookie's interest. My absolute favorite Sookie stackhouse to date. A lot of stuff happens in this book, but towards the end the action is great and goes somewhere you weren't really sure Ms. Harris would take you. Sookie travels to a Vampire Summit with Queen Sophie-Ann's entourage, which lends to some hilarious moments with different vamps and the fangbangers at their side. Like I said before, there is a lot more action then in previous books which is just exciting. Plus Quinn and Eric play for sookie's interest. When I started reading this series I was afraid it would follow the same old formula every time, but thats not really the case here and i'm glad. Charlaine Harris is building great stories one on top of the other and they are surely going to lead to something great. ...more Yet another of the thrilling adventures of prize bitch Sookie Stackhouse. She is certainly on form. There are half a dozen pointless descriptions of the characters\u2019 outfits and a horrendously awful sex scene in the first 30 pages alone. Sookie continues to bitch about every other woman\u2019s sex life and fashion sense, despite the fact that in both cases her own are questionable at best. Meanwhile what plot there is slowly stutters into life. Sookie travels to Rhodes with various \u2018supes\u2019, giving her Yet another of the thrilling adventures of prize bitch Sookie Stackhouse. She is certainly on form. There are half a dozen pointless descriptions of the characters\u2019 outfits and a horrendously awful sex scene in the first 30 pages alone. Sookie continues to bitch about every other woman\u2019s sex life and fashion sense, despite the fact that in both cases her own are questionable at best. Meanwhile what plot there is slowly stutters into life. Sookie travels to Rhodes with various \u2018supes\u2019, giving her the opportunity to use an aeroplane toilet for the first time and tell us for what seems like the twelfth time exactly how to pronounce Mr. Cataliades. I have no idea why Harris\u2019 has such a bee in her bonnet about this. Some characters we don\u2019t know die off screen. Nothing happens for a long time. There\u2019s a brief incident with a bomb, which comes to nothing. Then Sookie gets to try on a pretty dress, a situation which fills her with excitement and is described, along with all her accessories and underwear, at great length. After some talking, the dress is briefly endangered by the bleeding of her boyfriend when he is seriously injured, but luckily it survives without stains. We are then treated to another example of how incredibly sexually provocative vampires find Sookie\u2019s dancing, followed by a bit of sulking from Sookie\u2019s jealous boyfriend due to someone else touching his woman. Finally the plot creeps to a peak with the bombs that have been hanging around for most of the book finally exploding. None of the important characters are killed, but as a by-product of the events Sookie gets to hail a cab for the first time, which is pretty thrilling for her. She also strips a sleeping man naked without his permission and gets into bed with him whilst similarly unclad, but this passes without comment. Until the following morning, when it belatedly occurs to her that it was a bit of a weird thing to do. Most Laughable Statement \u201cSookie is good at thinking outside the box.\u201d This being the same Sookie who is sickened by the sight of a woman without a tan, and considers having satin sheets or more than one piercing per ear a sign of depravity and social dysfunction. Worst Named New Characters Elmer Claire Vaudry \u2013 A female, apparently. Johan Glassport Olive Trout Cindy Lou Suskin None of which rate a mention from Sookie. She does however find it impossible even during a serious trial not to laugh at a female vampire being called Jodi. Granted not the greatest spelling, but since Sookie is able to regularly serve drinks to someone called Jeff LeBeff without giggling I wouldn\u2019t have thought it would cause her too much trouble to keep a straight face. Least Appealing Opening to a Sex Scene \u201cBut in the next moment, his eyes got that focused look men get when they\u2019re thinking about sex very specifically.\u201d Phrases that Should Not be Used During a Sex Scene \u201cHe tugged my top out of my pants and began exploring territory he\u2019d only visited briefly before\u201d \u201cMmmmm\u201d \u201clittle bitty panties\u201d \u201cOh, boy\u201d \u201cThis is like standing in front of a buffet,\u201d he said. \u201cI don\u2019t know where to begin.\u201d I touched my breasts. \u201cFirst course,\u201d I suggested. \" \"\u201cI dreamed of this,\u201d he said, and shoved inside me up to the hilt\u201d A usual, Harris indulges in yet more unrealistic and embarrassing sex scenes featuring yet another massively well-endowed man who can barely control himself at the sight of a woman in bra. Phrases that Should Not be Used After a Sex Scene \u201cI was pleasantly aware of the tenderness I felt south of my belly button\u201d \u201cHis lips were so warm and firm, they reminded me of something else that had been warm and firm.\u201d \u201cEven through the condom, I\u2019d been able to feel the heat.\u201d More of Sookie\u2019s Judgemental Bitchery Towards Other Women \u201cI\u2019d always figured Jason wouldn\u2019t marry a woman I truly adored; he\u2019d always shown a partiality to tough sluts. And that was Crystal, sure enough.\u201d \u201cCarla was getting dressed (thank God) in what I thought of as \u201cclassy whore.\u201d\u201d Least Interesting Question to Ask a Vampire Sookie finally gets around to asking Pam how she became a vampire and Pam reveals that she was turned in the Victorian era. Sookie, given this unprecedented opportunity to ask any question about human or vampire life and experiences in the last century and a half, goes with the following: \u201cDid you wear your hair up every day?\u201d Apparently, yes, Pam did wear her hair up every day. Sookie\u2019s curiosity about Pam and the entirety of history from the Victorian era onward thus satisfied, the conversation ends. Most Random Self-Assessment \u201cI wasn\u2019t too pleased with myself for being so judgmental\u201d Really Sookie? It\u2019s certainly not been summat that bothered you before. Nor, apparently, will you have any further qualms about judging everyone you meet. So, a reformed character for roughly 12 seconds. Stupidest New Supernatural Beings Britlingen. Super-bodyguards from another dimension, apparently. Despite these credentials, Sookie\u2019s description of one of them runs to her having \u201dfeathery ash-brown hair that needed a good stylist\u201d. What makes her think they have stylists in this unnamed alternative dimension I\u2019m not sure, but obviously having a good hair-do would be of paramount importance to an enslaved warrior from another world. Most Blindly Patriotic Outlook \u201cIn a moment, I understood that I hadn\u2019t even thought about worrying because I\u2019d grown up a free United States human citizen; I wasn\u2019t used to worrying about my fate being in question\u201d Because of course in the Good Ol\u2019 USA there is no social injustice and the legal system is swift and flawless. Least Likely Choice of Artist for a Vampire Band to Cover Jennifer Lopez Worst Synonym for Dancing \u201cpretty soon we were shaking our bonbons all over the place\u201d Most Inappropriate Response to Your Friend Having Been in a Massive Anti-Vampire Terrorist Explosion \u201cOh, my God! Your new clothes!\u201d What plot there is being over, and all the usual lines and events trotted out yet again, the book finally concludes with the most hokey ending possible, short of \u201cthey lived happily ever after\u201d: \u201cWe went inside with the sun bright on our backs and our shadows preceding us into the old house.\u201d ...more Best one in the series! Easy read, Eric comes center stage for sure. A Bill fan no longer am I. Still very entertaining, but I was disappointed by her adding creatures from another dimension that could become invisible. It was a bit too much for me. The parts could have been handled by other supernatural creatures without going so far afield. It went too far beyond the scope of the world she's created without a good reason. Also, the setup by the Fellowship was too transparent & unrealistic. The security lapses were just too gross & the scheme was ludicrous. I did like finding out m Still very entertaining, but I was disappointed by her adding creatures from another dimension that could become invisible. It was a bit too much for me. The parts could have been handled by other supernatural creatures without going so far afield. It went too far beyond the scope of the world she's created without a good reason. Also, the setup by the Fellowship was too transparent & unrealistic. The security lapses were just too gross & the scheme was ludicrous. I did like finding out more about Quinn & the other character development. It wasn't a bad story, but certainly not one of her best. I'm hoping book 8 will be better. ...more So, there's a big event that has a lot of protesters who want to kill all of the people at the event. All of the people attending this event are staying at the same hotel which supposedly has great security, because, again, there are crazies who literally would LOVE to kill everyone in attendance. Soon after arrival, each and every party gets a phone call from the management of the hotel saying that there is an extra piece of luggage that belongs to them and they need to come down and pick it up So, there's a big event that has a lot of protesters who want to kill all of the people at the event. All of the people attending this event are staying at the same hotel which supposedly has great security, because, again, there are crazies who literally would LOVE to kill everyone in attendance. Soon after arrival, each and every party gets a phone call from the management of the hotel saying that there is an extra piece of luggage that belongs to them and they need to come down and pick it up. As they go down to get this unidentified luggage, they notice that there are representatives from each group of attendees also picking up their extra bags. Nobody seems to be missing luggage. Nobody claims these extra pieces and they sit in the rooms of these guests, unclaimed. Are you seriously telling me that nobody would consider this suspicious? Post 9/11? I find that very hard to believe. Basically, this hotel has worse security than your local elementary school. Who is the head of security? Paul Blartt, mall cop? Did people actually pay money to watch this movie? I have a hard time wrapping my head around the fact that there is a sequel to it... So, Sookie is going to the Vampire Convention to assist the Queen because you know that all-powerful creatures that are hundreds of years old need the brain trust that is a 27 yr old redneck waitress from a podunk town to keep them safe. And, it pays off, big time. Even though this girl has never even been in an airplane before, and says \"gosh\" with wide-eyed wonder at the big city lights, she is constantly uncovering plots that the vampires can't seem to figure out even though they are being hit over the head with clues. I guess they are technically brain-dead, right? Also, Sookie is all fired up about her were-tiger boyfriend, Quinn. And, why shouldn't she be awed by him? He is a giant bald-headed guy whom she is constantly comparing to a genie. I'd had time to appreciate his outfit while he spoke. He was wearing full trousers that gathered at the waist and the ankle. They were deep scarlet. He had cinched the trousers with a wide gold belt like a prizefighter's, and he was wearing black leather boots with the trouser legs tucked in. He wasn't wearing a shirt. He looked like a genie who'd just popped out of a really big bottle. Well, hello, sexy! Really???? She could be with Eric! (Yes, I know I complain about this in every review. Shut up! Have you seen Eric? I know you have - in every other one of my reviews on this series!) I don't want to break with tradition... So, the choice is between him and a genie. Hmmmmm.... Some people are clearly better decision-makers than others... This book was vampire focused, instead of Were focused, which I liked. The vampire politics and their cold-bloodedness is much more entertaining than the shape-shifters. The story was entertaining enough, even though you want to smack Sookie upside the head a lot. But, I want to smack her upside the head pretty often, so that's nothing new. ...more <+++>All Together Dead</+++> is the seventh full-length novel in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. As well as preparing for imminent weddings, Sookie has to get a wardrobe together for the Vampire Summit to be held in Rhodes. The Queen of Louisiana, Sophie-Ann Leclerq has engaged Sookie\u2019s services as a telepath to assist with various negotiations and deals. And of course, Sookie is the only witness to the murder of the Queen\u2019s late husband, the King of Arkansas, Pet <+++>All Together Dead</+++> is the seventh full-length novel in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. As well as preparing for imminent weddings, Sookie has to get a wardrobe together for the Vampire Summit to be held in Rhodes. The Queen of Louisiana, Sophie-Ann Leclerq has engaged Sookie\u2019s services as a telepath to assist with various negotiations and deals. And of course, Sookie is the only witness to the murder of the Queen\u2019s late husband, the King of Arkansas, Peter Threadgill. Her testimony will be vital at the Queen\u2019s murder trial. It seems that many at the Summit have their own agenda, and then there is the danger that the gathering of so many eminent vampires presents an irresistible target for that anti-vampire group, the Fellowship of that Sun. As well as taking her first trip north of the Mason Dixon line, Sookie attends two weddings, a wedding shower, several court cases, and a vampire ball. Sookie talks with her mouth full, discovers a bomb, browses some unusual convention stalls and reconnects with Barry the Bellhop. There are, as always, attempts on her life and she contributes to a search and rescue effort in a very novel way. Sookie does her best to ignore Bill, is forced into a situation with Eric and (finally!) gets up close and personal with Quinn. All Together Dead aptly titled as many are dead by the end of this one! Bring on From Dead to Worse. ...more Rating: 3.4* of five The Publisher Says : Louisiana cocktail waitress Sookie Stackhouse has her hands full dealing with every sort of undead and paranormal creature imaginable. And after being betrayed by her longtime vampire love, Sookie must not only deal with a new man in her life\u2014the shapeshifter Quinn\u2014but also contend with the long-planned vampire summit. The summit is a tense situation. The vampire queen of Louisiana is in a precarious position, her power base weakened by hurricane damage to Rating: 3.4* of five The Publisher Says : Louisiana cocktail waitress Sookie Stackhouse has her hands full dealing with every sort of undead and paranormal creature imaginable. And after being betrayed by her longtime vampire love, Sookie must not only deal with a new man in her life\u2014the shapeshifter Quinn\u2014but also contend with the long-planned vampire summit. The summit is a tense situation. The vampire queen of Louisiana is in a precarious position, her power base weakened by hurricane damage to New Orleans. And there are some vamps who would like to finish what nature started. Soon, Sookie must decide what side she'll stand with. And her choice may mean the difference between survival and all-out catastrophe. My Review : Too many threads with too much happening and the end result is I don't have any idea what it is this entry in the series is about: Sookie and Quinn, after his early trauma is revealed? Sookie and the vamp queen, after Sookie's defense of her succeeds and is repaid with treachery? Sookie and Eric, now that she owes him another round of gratitude? Sookie detecting another of her telepathic kind, and the major events of the nightmare religious cult the Fellowship of the Sun unfold? I suppose every series has a problem with the transitional tales that need telling. Too many transitions in this one, at least for my little two-volt nervous system. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more Yay, Sookie finally has a woman friend! We are getting into Bechdel test territory, as they are close to having conversations about something besides men and Bob the cat (an unfortunate man turned into a cat by Sookie\u2019s friend Amelia, when trying some magic that she shouldn\u2019t have been messing with). And if Sookie doesn\u2019t get the vampire-employee-of-the-year award for her performance in this book, I want to know the reason why. The undead had better acknowledge her courage and value in the next i Yay, Sookie finally has a woman friend! We are getting into Bechdel test territory, as they are close to having conversations about something besides men and Bob the cat (an unfortunate man turned into a cat by Sookie\u2019s friend Amelia, when trying some magic that she shouldn\u2019t have been messing with). And if Sookie doesn\u2019t get the vampire-employee-of-the-year award for her performance in this book, I want to know the reason why. The undead had better acknowledge her courage and value in the next installment. I know that a lot of people see casual racism in the Sookie series, but Harris does tackle the prejudice issue in this novel, albeit the bias of the living against the undead and the vampires and werewolves against each other. Easier to tackle in fictional creatures than in actual populations, perhaps (like the memorable Star Trek episode with the half black/half white aliens who discriminate based on which side of the face is black or white). Having finished the previous novel, I picked this one up immediately and plunged forward. When I looked up, it was 2 a.m. and I had just set myself up for a draggy Saturday. Despite that, I have no regrets, but I will try to resist the next installment until I\u2019m caught up a bit on my library books. ...more I love this series. I also love the True Blood series that's based on this series of books. I've always been a believer in not reading the book if you're going to watch the movie, read it afterward but for this series the rule doesn't apply. They've changed the series so much from the book that I can read the books and still enjoy the HBO series. I enjoy both and this book follows right along with the previous Sookie Stackhouse installments. Ms. Harris has a penchant for leaving me hanging on th I love this series. I also love the True Blood series that's based on this series of books. I've always been a believer in not reading the book if you're going to watch the movie, read it afterward but for this series the rule doesn't apply. They've changed the series so much from the book that I can read the books and still enjoy the HBO series. I enjoy both and this book follows right along with the previous Sookie Stackhouse installments. Ms. Harris has a penchant for leaving me hanging on the edge of my chair fixed on the words of her book. The only problem is that I keep blowing through the books at a rapid pace and everything around me is put on hold until I get finished. Have you watched the HBO series? No? Do it! And read the books right on through without worry because after the first book the storyline between the HBO series and the books take different paths. You'll enjoy both. ...more I haven't read this in a couple years, but I remember thinking it was my favorite since book 4, Dead to the World . Eric is in it more too. If I'm remembering correctly, there's a lot more action and excitement. There's more Quinn in this one and Sookie meets another telepath, Barry the Bellboy. At the end of this one is a fantastic scene involving one of the Queen's children, Sookie, and Eric. Sookie's bond with Eric grows at the end because (view spoiler) [there is another blood exchange (hide sp I haven't read this in a couple years, but I remember thinking it was my favorite since book 4, Dead to the World . Eric is in it more too. If I'm remembering correctly, there's a lot more action and excitement. There's more Quinn in this one and Sookie meets another telepath, Barry the Bellboy. At the end of this one is a fantastic scene involving one of the Queen's children, Sookie, and Eric. Sookie's bond with Eric grows at the end because (view spoiler) [there is another blood exchange (hide spoiler) ] . That might have been my favorite scene in this one. Once again, the Eric scenes are the best. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This book was a hit for me. I love this series, even though it doesn't make me smarter or a better person for having read it. And even though it's totally unbelievable and Sookie is nothing like me, and a little silly. In All Together Dead, she's heading to the Vampire summit, the Vampire Queen of Louisiana(that's right, Queen of Louisiana, see above paragraph)plans to use Sookie's telepathic abilities. She and Quinn are hot and heavy and Eric and Sookie's relationship also moves to another level This book was a hit for me. I love this series, even though it doesn't make me smarter or a better person for having read it. And even though it's totally unbelievable and Sookie is nothing like me, and a little silly. In All Together Dead, she's heading to the Vampire summit, the Vampire Queen of Louisiana(that's right, Queen of Louisiana, see above paragraph)plans to use Sookie's telepathic abilities. She and Quinn are hot and heavy and Eric and Sookie's relationship also moves to another level. And Bill is around too, so what... I'm over Bill! I'm still pulling for Sookie and Eric to end up together. Planning on getting the next book ASAP! ...more This book was a letdown after the run of Sookie books which I thoroughly enjoyed. The bridal shower which even Sookie didn't enjoy was a big letdown. It was fun to see Barry Bellboy again when he showed up at the Summit with the Dallas contingent. But the vampiric political shenanigans went on too long for me although many readers probably enjoyed this part. The various vampire royalty gushing about how glad they were to see someone and thinking how they wished somebody would come along and stake This book was a letdown after the run of Sookie books which I thoroughly enjoyed. The bridal shower which even Sookie didn't enjoy was a big letdown. It was fun to see Barry Bellboy again when he showed up at the Summit with the Dallas contingent. But the vampiric political shenanigans went on too long for me although many readers probably enjoyed this part. The various vampire royalty gushing about how glad they were to see someone and thinking how they wished somebody would come along and stake the person became too tedious to do more than skim. Once mayhem and murder broke out, it was an exciting read right up until the end. The last third of the book was a great read. ...more 4.5 stars. Pretty much from start to finish, I adored All Together Dead. Sure the reveals in it were pretty damn glaring but I definitely was entertained. It was interesting how Harris wrote it with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. It certainly brought more dire circumstances for the Louisiana group at the summit. Sookie's romantic life wasn't holding this book down at all, it's quite obvious, at least to me, who she's meant to be with. ERIC. Judging by his actions/comments and even Pam's comm 4.5 stars. Pretty much from start to finish, I adored All Together Dead. Sure the reveals in it were pretty damn glaring but I definitely was entertained. It was interesting how Harris wrote it with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. It certainly brought more dire circumstances for the Louisiana group at the summit. Sookie's romantic life wasn't holding this book down at all, it's quite obvious, at least to me, who she's meant to be with. ERIC. Judging by his actions/comments and even Pam's comments, he cares deeply for Sookie. There are some telling signs from Sookie as well. Overall, I gotta say they have the best chemistry. I can't see how they wouldn't end up together, no matter that Quinn seems like a nice guy. Quinn's history is finally told, why he's so well known (and even awed) among the supes. It's pretty tragic and I do hope he gets a happy ending with his love life, that is unless Harris decides to assassinate his character or something a la Bill, LOL. Just to note, I do think he and Sookie make a nice couple but I don't think it'll work out. Bubba was not in here besides a passing mention but Pam had her largest appearance ever so that did tide me over. I continue to think it's hilarious and awesome that she backs Eric/Sookie. I mean I know it's loyalty to her master, she wants him happy but part of me thinks she believes they make perfect sense as well. Besides her interest in Sookie's love life, readers finally hear who Pam was before she turned and how she came to meet Eric. That background was long overdue, let me tell ya. Barry the bellboy from Living Dead in Dallas appears with a bigger role as telepath to Stan, the now King of Texas. He and Sookie kind of bond over their shared abilities. I thought it was nice for Sookie to have someone like him to talk to and experiment with. I enjoyed their friendship and hope they can get closer together since in this book they ended with differing choices. The different plots were great. I still believe that non-Bon Temps locations provide the more exciting and action-packed stories. New supes introduced, suicidal assassins, traitors, vampire judicial cases, misplaced caskets and luggage, a mysterious multiple vampire murder, weddings, blood exchanges...fun, fun stuff. ...more Ahhhh such much action! The way the explosion was written was just perfect, the scene played in my mind just like an action movie. I'll definitely give Charlaine Harris credit, she knows how to write her battle and action scenes, in a way that's perfectly descriptive - not under or overly so. I wish that Sookie hadn't taken so long to figure out the entire thing though, she sort of just kept it all locked up in her mind for ages - it frustrated the fuck out of me. As soon as I'd encountered Jake Ahhhh such much action! The way the explosion was written was just perfect, the scene played in my mind just like an action movie. I'll definitely give Charlaine Harris credit, she knows how to write her battle and action scenes, in a way that's perfectly descriptive - not under or overly so. I wish that Sookie hadn't taken so long to figure out the entire thing though, she sort of just kept it all locked up in her mind for ages - it frustrated the fuck out of me. As soon as I'd encountered Jake Purifoy in the hotel room with the hotel staff/Fellowship members, I'd have gone straight to the Queen or to the head of security. And then Barry totally knew what was going on, but was too pissweak to say anything in case it got humans killed. *stabs* I loved the addition of the Britlingens, I hadn't even thought about extradimensions and creatures from other realms in the Sookie verse! I wish Amelia would hurry up and figure out how to turn Bob back into a human, her presence isn't really achieving anything and she's kind of lingering around longer than she needs to (okay I know New Orleans is still a mess, but whatever). ...more This one again culminates in a battlefield of a climax. I suppose Bill will no longer be part of the bizzarro love triangle, as Quinn the were-tiger (lame) debunks Bill. Eric is still a contender though... Anyway, this one seemed a bit smaller a story than the others... probably because it all takes place in a hotel. The vamp summit is, of course, very eventful and the story continues with alligences being switched left and right and new characters developing while others are mercilessly killed o This one again culminates in a battlefield of a climax. I suppose Bill will no longer be part of the bizzarro love triangle, as Quinn the were-tiger (lame) debunks Bill. Eric is still a contender though... Anyway, this one seemed a bit smaller a story than the others... probably because it all takes place in a hotel. The vamp summit is, of course, very eventful and the story continues with alligences being switched left and right and new characters developing while others are mercilessly killed off. It is clear that Sookie's naivete counters her magical gift so that she represents... the Everywoman ? She is sometimes quite materialistic and superficial... but saves the day, or night, all in good time. ...more Sookie Stackhouse is becoming quite the popular waitress - for her telepathic gift, mostly. She accompanies the vampiric Queen of Louisiana and her entourage to the vampire summit near Chicago, in order to read the minds of the human hangers-on to the other vampires. In the aftermath of her disastrous wedding and Katrina, the Queen is facing a trial over the murder of her vampire husband, Peter Threadgill, and the dispute of his territory, Arkansas. Sookie soon finds herself in demand as well as Sookie Stackhouse is becoming quite the popular waitress - for her telepathic gift, mostly. She accompanies the vampiric Queen of Louisiana and her entourage to the vampire summit near Chicago, in order to read the minds of the human hangers-on to the other vampires. In the aftermath of her disastrous wedding and Katrina, the Queen is facing a trial over the murder of her vampire husband, Peter Threadgill, and the dispute of his territory, Arkansas. Sookie soon finds herself in demand as well as slap-bang in the middle of more than one plot. Her boyfriend, the weretiger Quinn, is on hand but so is Eric and Bill, causing complications. The Fellowship of the Sun, the anti-vampire cult, could be planning something big, and there's definitely something fishy going on inside the pyramid-like vampire hotel they're staying at - something that proves to be deadly. I must say, I do love these books. When the plot revolves around the vampires I enjoy them more than when they concern weres, but I still always enjoy them. The biggest selling point is Sookie herself, who is a good girl but not in a sickly way, and who leads a very interesting and often exciting life. I enjoy all the little details as well, the descriptions of her homely routines and the like, because it grounds it and gives it a better sense of time and reality. There are a lot of men in Sookie's life and none of them seem like they could have a future with Sookie - but after this book I really noticed how Eric is slowly and carefully being groomed for the role. After all, Sookie's got to have a happy ever after - she deserves it, and since she narrates I doubt she'll die. This is solid urban fantasy, with characters who change and grow and subplots that continue to develop, along with the excitement and anticipation of the mystery - though I have to say, I guessed about the suitcases from the moment they were first mentioned. Overall, another great read, lots of fun and a vivid world to explore. ...more For those who can't stand it any longer, Sookie and Quinn finally have some quality time in the beginning. Then her life goes back into the usual chaos she seems to thrive on, in this case a vampire summit during which A LOT of bad things happen and Sookie manages to entangle herself with her former beaus again. I liked this one because there are so many new characters and yet you get a strong impression of each one. Some old characters reveal a little more about themselves, in some cases too mu For those who can't stand it any longer, Sookie and Quinn finally have some quality time in the beginning. Then her life goes back into the usual chaos she seems to thrive on, in this case a vampire summit during which A LOT of bad things happen and Sookie manages to entangle herself with her former beaus again. I liked this one because there are so many new characters and yet you get a strong impression of each one. Some old characters reveal a little more about themselves, in some cases too much (especially for Sookie) and there is retribution all around. There are some hilarious comments of South vs. North which maybe only a Westerner can laugh at in disbelief. Will Sookie finally step out and get some much needed downtime from vampdom? Could the series survive if she did? Will Sookie ever manage to keep a beautiful dress she really likes?! ...more If Book 6 of the Sookie Stackhouse series was a turning point, then Book 7, All Together Dead , is the drawing of battle lines. Vampire politics, were politics, and an upsurge of human fanatic reaction to the undead are all in the forefront of this plot, making it arguably one of the most substantial of the Sookies to date. Sookie is called upon to join the party of the Queen of Louisiana for a vampire summit in the (fictional) city of Rhodes. Once there, she has all sorts of competing pulls for h If Book 6 of the Sookie Stackhouse series was a turning point, then Book 7, All Together Dead , is the drawing of battle lines. Vampire politics, were politics, and an upsurge of human fanatic reaction to the undead are all in the forefront of this plot, making it arguably one of the most substantial of the Sookies to date. Sookie is called upon to join the party of the Queen of Louisiana for a vampire summit in the (fictional) city of Rhodes. Once there, she has all sorts of competing pulls for her attention. The only other telepath she's ever met, from way back in Book 2, makes another appearance here. Rumblings about a civil war among the weres are growing stronger. And the politics between not only various factions of vampires but also between vampires and humans take center stage--forcing Sookie to question whether her life can truly be \"normal\" again, and in fact, to which vampire she's willing to bind herself now that she's seized the Louisiana Queen's attention. There's a glaringly obvious \"oh for fuck's sake\" moment that gives away the intentions of the antagonists in this plot--or at least, obvious to the reader; I did wonder how exactly this escaped the attention of all of the significant characters in the book. Granted, they've all got other things on their minds at the time, but it's still enough to make one go \"wait, what?\" But that's the only bump in an otherwise thoroughly solid story. Three and a half stars. ...more i haven't been reviewing these books because there's not a lot to review; they're just trashy and entertaining. every now and then, though, charlaine harris unleashes something as illuminating as this: \"Wow,\u201d I said, watching Batanya stride away. She was wearing pants like liquid leather, and you could see each buttock flex and relax with her movement. It was like an anatomy lesson. She had muscles in her butt.\" \" she had muscles in her butt \"? really? what a fucking terrible anatomy lesson. i enjo i haven't been reviewing these books because there's not a lot to review; they're just trashy and entertaining. every now and then, though, charlaine harris unleashes something as illuminating as this: \"Wow,\u201d I said, watching Batanya stride away. She was wearing pants like liquid leather, and you could see each buttock flex and relax with her movement. It was like an anatomy lesson. She had muscles in her butt.\" \" she had muscles in her butt \"? really? what a fucking terrible anatomy lesson. i enjoy these books, truly, but they are just so mind-numbingly stupid at times. like this. and when the undead play j-lo songs, because that makes sense. at one point, sookie even says \"save the drama for your mama.\" CH, i have news for you: no one actually says that anymore. no one said it in 2007. you are operating in some bygone era where slang like this is acceptable, and dressing like britney spears in the late '90s or early '00s is, too--sookie isn't fashionable when she wears ~funky~ pantsuits or lace up jeans, she is a trainwreck. and PS: most 3\" heels DO NOT qualify as fuck me pumps, what da hale world you livin in, lady? also, please stop writing sex scenes. they are awkward and terrible. ...more Every time I take a break in between one Sookie book and the next I have to reacclimate myself to the heinosity. This series really is quite stupid. But I can't help myself, I love it. Sookie's thought process at the beginning of the book over the merits of warm penis vs. cold penis was way too gross for me to handle. For real. But otherwise this one was alright...especially once the fireworks started at the end. Sookie was an okay character in this one, although there was a few times where she annoyed me. I found the pacing in this one to be a bit slow, so there were times where it dragged. It was an alright read though. Ok. These books are silly, which is why I won't give any of them (so far) a five star, but they are very entertaining. junk food for the brain, and I love them. This is actually one of the better Sookie books I have read in awhile. There was actually a decent plot in this book and there wasn't constant sex. This book was much better then the last three, Harris has seemed to calm down on making sookie such an ass and instead focused on giving us a great story. The only reason i'm giving this 3 stars instead of 4 is because 1. she added (YET AGAIN) a new \"creature\" to the world and another \"dimension\". the book already has enough confusing characters, races, etc. adding another lends an air of cheesy-ness to the book that could push it from being fun cheesy to roquefort. 2. quinn. he doesnt sound sex This book was much better then the last three, Harris has seemed to calm down on making sookie such an ass and instead focused on giving us a great story. The only reason i'm giving this 3 stars instead of 4 is because 1. she added (YET AGAIN) a new \"creature\" to the world and another \"dimension\". the book already has enough confusing characters, races, etc. adding another lends an air of cheesy-ness to the book that could push it from being fun cheesy to roquefort. 2. quinn. he doesnt sound sexy at all, and for a 'weretiger' he seems like a total puss. Also while the author has calmed down the level of sookie's absolute and complete lack of common sense, respect, and her harsh judgments based on nothing but looks and a few thoughts in the first seconds of meeting other characters, she did not elimnate it (or sookie) completely (SIGH) and this is proven by her wonton and frankly ungratefull treatment of the vampire Eric. Actually he's too nice, and saves her, much to HER ANNOYANCE. I dont know about you but if someone saves my life multiple times, annoyance is probably not the emotion i would be feeling. It just proves Harris is in too deep with sookie being a complete and utter jackass retard to go back and write in any respect for her. The way she talks to the Python Godess (or whatever her name was) if i was an ancient vampire or any vampire in that room and someone was insluting my most reveard of all people (she was like the pope of vampires or something) i certainly would have at least slapped her or something, and these people are supposed to be ferocious vampires? Finally this book comes with the obligatory sex scene that is in all the sookie novels. As always it's gross, unrealistic, and completely and mindblowingly UNSEXY. However the STORY, the plot line in this book is really good, at the end I didnt want to put it down. And the addition of the human factor as a threat into this supernatural world (before they were just kind of on the periphrial) added an exellent new breath to something that is getting just a little stale. ...more", "Title": "All Together Dead"},
