{"Comments": "<+++>The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century</+++>I tried to plow through this book, but Thomas Friedman is the most brain-dead parrot of the ruling class I have ever known, so I couldn't finish it. His view of globalization is that now, thanks to the paternalistic global order constructed by US multinational corporations, there is cultural and monetary things of worth out there in the vast unexplored jungles of savagery called \"not the United States.\" As an ahistorical text that ignores the fact that elites have been trading from Occident to an I tried to plow through this book, but Thomas Friedman is the most brain-dead parrot of the ruling class I have ever known, so I couldn't finish it. His view of globalization is that now, thanks to the paternalistic global order constructed by US multinational corporations, there is cultural and monetary things of worth out there in the vast unexplored jungles of savagery called \"not the United States.\" As an ahistorical text that ignores the fact that elites have been trading from Occident to and from Orient for hundreds of years, the book ignores entirely the poor. How wonderful it is to be ruling class in this new era, where poor people from all over the world can service the rich like Friedman.<---F> What an asshole</---F>. ...more The World is Not Flat Precis: A big project was started in the post-war world to let countries grow and prosper and compete without using wars to do so. That was the project of globalization. A sub- or lead-project under that was the European Union. Friedman\u2019s famous book was the recent victory cry for the Globalization Project, a chest-thumping if ever there was one! However, any keen observer would by now have concluded that the project was riddled with flaws. But that is not to say that the vi The World is Not Flat Precis: A big project was started in the post-war world to let countries grow and prosper and compete without using wars to do so. That was the project of globalization. A sub- or lead-project under that was the European Union. Friedman\u2019s famous book was the recent victory cry for the Globalization Project, a chest-thumping if ever there was one! However, any keen observer would by now have concluded that the project was riddled with flaws. But that is not to say that the vision itself was flawed. It might be a better argument to say that the flaws are more from the project being not fully carried-through than from the fact of its existence, as Stieglitz had argued eloquently in his critiques. In the video lecture below I use the crisis in the Eurozone to draw out some of the fundamental reasons why globalization has been winding along roads that lead nowhere, for quite some time. The concentrated nature of the Eurozone crisis and the fact that it is a rich-country problem, with all the proportional additional limelight allows us to see in that microcosm what half-baked globalization has done to the haves and have-nots among the nations of the world. And by examining that, it is hoped that we might also see that the solutions to globalization is perhaps not less but more of the dosage, undiluted. So, here,<---M> with a bit of shameless self-promotion</---M>, is the video. Please help me improve by sharing feedback! :) Caveat: The rest of this review wont make much sense without first watching the video\u2026 Detail: A single global market and complete economic integration would mean that the countries would be too tied in with each other to ever even consider further internecine warfare. Surely no one would be daft enough to compromise their own interest so badly. Solving the problems of a war-ridden world by uniting it through trade. That was right up the alley suggested by Adam Smith in his civilizing process. Maybe trade and interdependence will get the world to behave. That was the hope of the globalizing project that replaced mercantilist philosophy that preceded it. And if any part of the world had to race to be civilized, it had to be Europe whom Gandhi had \u2018burn\u2019ed famously with his quip. Hence the European Project was to be the front-runner, the trail-blazer, the avant-garde, etc. The video above is a lecture/discussion, wherein I argue that this European project was conceived as a roadmap to a fully integrated union that will replicate a US of A in Europe; and how the EU compromised on the tougher but necessary requirements of such a project and tried to get by with stop-gap solutions like convergence criteria and the like, which, in its turn, were not enforced. All this has led to a scenario which could derail not only the micro experiment (EU), but the macro experiment (Globalization) as well. The European consolidation project rushed into first economic and then a monetary union while never slowing down to implement any integrated Fiscal controls/transfers. This is also the case with much of the thrust of the globalization project with its emphasis on open trade and liberalizing capital flows across borders. It was understood from the beginning that this was going to be an issue, but it was hoped that it could be worked around. Imposing any sort of fiscal control was too anathema to be considered. It could easily be argued that any move in that direction would nip the project in the bud, with the nationalistic European Governments running away from any suggestion that dilutes sovereignty as much. An Overdose of Fiscal Discipline This meant that a lot of fiscal discipline was attempted, not by direct control but indirectly in the form of membership criteria. The focus on such fiscal rules had been justified by two beliefs: 1. That, inside a single currency union with a common exchange rate, monetary policy, interlinked interest rates and market integrated enough to cause contagion concerns, the fiscally irresponsible were less likely to be castigated by markets that might otherwise loose confidence and move away from investing in countries/currencies in danger of running into problems of high inflation or debt. 2. That such a country that got into trouble would not be able to devalue currency or adopt lose money policies, and would also not enjoy the sorts of automatic transfers that operate in federal countries. Then the only real option to absorb a shock would be greater borrowing by the government at the reduced interest rates available to them from market being lax\u2026 Clearly,\u00a0focusing on debt-to-GDP figures and enforcing strict limits seemed\u00a0the best way to overcome the problems of an EMU that is not a Federal union. Plenty of Gaps in Financial Regulation However, some of the gaps as far as Banking and Financial system was concerned was ignored for too long in all this concern for Fiscal discipline. The new unified market and banking system under the ECB that was being created could not be said to have any sort of full fledged monetary policy capacity since the ECB was not even given overall responsibility for bank supervision, which stayed at national level, an arrangement that has since been deemed unsatisfactory, with the planned \u201cbanking union\u201d giving supervision of most large European banks to the ECB. It also had no obligation to act as the system\u2019s lender of last resort nor was there any sort of deposit-insurance system that was instituted. Without a Central Bank\u2019s capacity to conjure money out of thin air, the system was left with no one with the capacity and obligation to protect the banking system, the depositors and the sovereigns - a huge potential problem once it took over the operation of monetary policy from national central banks. Without these basic functions and powers how can a central bank truly regulate. What mechanism can it have? Moreover, the ECB\u2019s one-size-fits-all interest rates (and exchange rates) is a one-size-fits-none arrangement - at the same time is might be too low for Germany and other strong economies and too high for weak Mediterranean countries like Greece with debt problems, or, at other times too low for overheating countries like Greece, but too high for Germany. The German domination over the ECB also meant that loose money policy, especially radical measures like a dose of American-style quantitative easing, was mostly anathema. Enforcement? What is that? Then to add on to these problems came laxity in enforcement: the fiscal criteria encapsulated in not-so-bad-ass sounding schemes like the \u201cexcessive deficit procedure,\", stability and growth pact, etc. However, from the very beginning the rules against excessive deficits and public-debt levels were interpreted flexibly. And once Germany and France colluded to block any official rebuke or sanctions for letting their budget deficits rise above the Maastricht ceiling of 3% of GDP and rendered it toothless, the gutting of the Fiscal requirement were complete. From then on, so the story goes, all semblance of fiscal discipline was abandoned. All this meant that problems were only waiting to happen. And the relaxed entry of some of the mediterranean countries (one does not say no to Plato! :) ) helped precipitate this very fast. Greece: The Petri-Dish Case The circumstances that led to the Greek crisis, via the good pre-2008 times, and the way it was handled/botched is used as an example to show up some of these flaws and deficiencies and to highlight what needs to be done to make EU a success. The Blame Game It is argued that the blame should be placed on both: 1. those who created such a death trap of a currency union, to begin with, followed by the reckless borrowers and the irresponsible lenders of the first decade of EMU 2. the lax policy response later from the ECB, IMF and the stronger nations of the EU who could have limited the fallout but failed to act decisively. It is true that the\u00a0 deficit countries used the low interest rates unproductively and profligately. Not to mention the fact that the complacent financial markets utterly failed in their allocation of credit and calculations of risk. Getting markets to impose discipline on governments had been one reason for enshrining the no-bail-out rule and forbidding the ECB from monetizing government debt. But this plan didn\u2019t take into account the irrationality of markets flush with overconfidence and easy money in the pre-2008 global economy Discipline the Markets! Greece was plainly bankrupt. Its debt should have been cut early and decisively rather than late and messily, thereby giving private creditors the chance to dump Greek bonds. The losses would thus fall on those that lent the money to uncreditworthy countries. This would have hurt the bad lenders early and made them more wary of speculation (contaminated by plenty of moral hazard!). It is important to enforce discipline on the rogue elements of the markets first if you expect markets to enforce discipline on the sovereigns, whether it be in the local pond of the European bond market or the larger international waters where the sharky portfolio investors hunt. The Austerity Question And finally, the bail-outs (of the lenders more than the borrowers in many ways) made the mistake of enforcing procyclcical austerity measures only worsening the recessionary impact of the economic cycle and plunging Greece further into the debt trap. With no functional monetary policy and toothless fiscal policy (once lending capacity was compromised), Greece had no options but to keep accepting the loans and the conditions. The Dark Future of Grexit After this, a few future options for Greece are discussed including the specter of Grexit. Even if it may seem so today, it unlikely that the EU\u2019s single market would survive the domino-effect-led implosion, and it would probably be followed by capital controls, trade barriers and, possibly, a return to world of mercantilism! Avoiding the Doomsday; Preventing Radicalism How to avoid such a scenario? It would require straightening the accountability and safety in the financial system, as is already in the works with talks of a \u201cbanking union. But what is also needed are the basics of a federal budgeting process that provides public goods and redistributes income between rich and poor citizens (and states). The EU has a tiny budget, no power of taxation and no powers to borrow. And the eurozone has no budget at all, even a modest one, that could make transfers when countries suffer a downturn in the form of unemployment insurances, etc. This would protect countries hit by the flaws of EU to escape the worst of the problems that afflict its citizens such as high unemployment. This would then allow protection against the kind of civil unrest that took place in Greece. Besides, it would also prevent the easy radicalization of politics that happen in countries where the citizens have to endure clear and present hardship even as neighboring nationals seem to living in prosperity. Slow growth and high unemployment have been radicalizing politics and intensifying rejection of both national and European politicians. So the next crisis may well be political. Anti-EU, anti-immigrant and anti-establishment parties of all colors are on the rise. Only a EU-level budget to protect the losers of \u201cglobalization\u201d can help fight this tendency that can easily lead to protectionism across the weaker economies and thus soon among the stronger economies. Intrusive Economics Instead of these steps, the \u201ceconomic governance\u201d created in recent years is a soup of incomprehensible jargon: six-pack, two-pack, fiscal compact, Euro Plus Pact, European semester, annual growth survey, excessive deficit procedure, macroeconomic imbalances procedure, \u201ccontractual arrangements\u201d for reform, and much more. All this amounts to an unprecedented intrusion by an unaccountable EU bureaucracy that satisfies nobody! Just as in the case of globalization, the nations on the periphery are more and more afraid that the run of the core economic system is being run by the in-countries and their institutions: that increasingly the European Union and the euro zone are deciding matters without sufficient democratic control. As the eurozone (or the western world with respect to globalization) integrates further and more intrusively, it is running into a huge potential row about the legitimacy and democratic accountability of its actions. Indeed, it is this, rather than the financial markets, that could pose one of the biggest risks to the EU\u2019s future. As we can see the same concerns are present if we examine the international institutions such as WTO, IMF and the United Nations. The intrusions are inevitable and lack of democratic control only precipitates fear and distrust from the out-group countries, which happen to be most of the world! The eurozone\u2019s financial system was sufficiently integrated to spread contagion, but not integrated enough to provide resilience. It has no central budget or other means of absorbing asymmetric shocks that hit one or two countries disproportionately. Hence, when the crisis hit, the euro zone had no means of giving assistance to countries that got into trouble. A bit of imagination should suffice to see how each of these conditions of integrated markets, contagion and no resilience applies to the globalized international markets as well. Greece paid a disproportionate price of the US\u2019 regulatorial slackness and the 2008 crisis, so did many others across the globe. There was no system to make sure that they were protected in some manner. The markets are irrational and the international institutional system is built on a willful ignorance of this fact. We cannot have true globalization with only markets running it, just like couldn\u2019t have had any sort of true democracy if it was merely laissez-faire that guaranteed it. Global Federalism\u2026? The eurozone and the globalizing world should look to the United States and ask itself: why does the prospect of default by one state not call into question the existence of the dollar? The short answer is that the United States is a single federal country, while the euro zone is a much looser confederation of sovereign countries who are willing to contaminate one another, but not willing to help one another out. Europe\u2019s real folly and the folly of the globalization project as a whole was not to look for the gains from opening up of trade, financial integration, exchange-rate stability and economic efficiency, even if they might have been overstated. The madness was to believe that these benefits could be obtained on the cheap, without the political constraints, economic flexibility, financial transfers and risk-sharing mechanisms of genuine integrated markets, i.e., federations. Clearly the answer is in some sort of Federalism, not only for the Eurozone, but also for the world? And it is worth building, and fast! After all, Europe\u2019s (and globalization\u2019s) malaise is not one that time alone can heal. Delay is likely to make things worse, not better. Even if the the financial panic is kept in abeyance, the economic and political crises may well deepen. Right now the political momentum is towards fragmentation, not integration. Unless the euro zone (and by extending the argument the globalized world economy) is redesigned with greater determination, in particular through greater risk-sharing, it is unlikely to recover economic vitality. And unless the euro (and globalization) can be shown to deliver prosperity and well-being, public support for the EU Project (and the Globalization Project) will inexorably ebb away. The eurozone crisis has the potential to destroy the European project. Something of great value may thus be lost through carelessness or timidity. The Grecian Prod But on the other hand it also has the potential to prod Europe and the broader world into quickened action to make sure that economic integration is attended by fiscal safety-nets and fast reductions in the accumulating democratic deficit with respect to the institutions that govern that economic integration. The hope is that this realization and the prod for quicker action can be had from the high profile case of Greece where most of the flaws and the urgent reforms have been highlighted. Hopefully Europe will stop finding its way gradually like a blind man stumbling form one wrong turn and crisis to another before stumbling on the right room and instead sit down and chart out a roadmap for the destination it really wants to reach. The steps to this are laid out as first having a system of transfer in place, via ECB first by making it a lender of last resort and then moving to a more integrated fiscal union and eventually a political union by the gradual addition of democratic accountability. A dreamy euro-federalist vision is thus put forth, and it is hoped that it does not bring forth much derision from the realist among the viewers! All this can thus be connected back to the idea of globalization with a hope that eventually we might achieve similar results for the world as a whole. In short, the euro-federalist dream is extended to include another dreamy hope that the nation state system that was propagated by Europe, will hopefully be transcended by the same Europe. The EU experiment has much significance it the grander scheme of things on how the world will look like a century or so from now and the best sort of effort has to be made to make it work, even at the cost of some sovereignty or pride. The World is Not Flat And, one last thing: Before someone asks, \u201cWhy review this book for discussing all this?\u201d, let me answer: Friedman argued that the world is flat \u2014 because of Globalization. However this whole argument would indicate that the world is not flat, because Globalization is not complete, it is not even past the first leg of the race. And the flattening of the world wont happen unless we aim for real globalization, unless the race is fully run, all the hurdles jumped. The world needs a lot more flattening to even out the very rough edges \u2014 the edges that cut all too easily. This is because flatness is not based on merely economic or trade considerations. It has to be based on democratic accountability, when clearly the international organizations are going to have an ever more intrusive role in national matters. If not the opposite would result \u2014 the nations would reject the international organizations and challenge their legitimacy. And the whole project depends on this legitimacy not being challenged. It could be that occasional prosperity might dampen the force of these questions, but in an integrated world crises will surely be more common and so will contagion, and then the only thing that can save the institutions and the whole globalized system is accountability and true democratic legitimacy. Globalization has to be built on democratization and not merely on ships or aviation fuel. That then was a bloated summary of a video which is in fact much simpler and non-technical. Again, pls do watch the video and let me know if it was fun. :) ...more Non-Fiction. Friedman explains to us, over and over, how globalization has effectively turned the world into a very very small place -- I was okay with his metaphor of a flat world at first, but over time it started to irritate me. It's neither elegant nor practical. No matter how many virtual conference rooms you have, in a flat world it's still going to take forever to get material goods moved from China to the US, unlike our current round model; later he even starts to talk about how some par Non-Fiction. Friedman explains to us, over and over, how globalization has effectively turned the world into a very very small place -- I was okay with his metaphor of a flat world at first, but over time it started to irritate me. It's neither elegant nor practical. No matter how many virtual conference rooms you have, in a flat world it's still going to take forever to get material goods moved from China to the US, unlike our current round model; later he even starts to talk about how some parts of the world are unflat, ow, my head -- but still, his point remains: digitization, miniaturization, virtualization, and personalization have conspired to make our planet very small indeed, metaphorically speaking. For the most part, Friedman has a highly romanticized view of globalization, looking at it as more of a fascinating academic theory than a real force, and only talking to people who have benefited from the rampant outsourcing and supply-chaining. The first two thirds of this book suffer from a distinct lack of real world consequence. It's all happy anecdotes and economic theory, which isn't exactly Friedman's strong point. Because of this, it took me about six months to read, was constantly inspiring me to nap, and was just generally twice as long as it needed to be. Friedman makes up a lot of jargon -- going as far as to repurpose common words for his own oblique purposes -- and it can be difficult to remember what he's talking about at any given moment. The other problem is Friedman's scope and focus. When I read non-fiction, I like each chapter to have a thesis. Friedman prefers to wander up and down the page, make the same point several times, dump a lot of irrelevant statistics on me, and then scurry off to deliver a glancing blow to a new perspective, only to doggedly return to his original thrice-made point as if I hadn't gotten it the first two times. But, if you can make it through all that, cold hard reality shows up in the third act and things finally get interesting. Friedman admits that only .2% of Indians are employed in the technological industry he was so happily touting just a few chapters before. He admits that the world is not entirely flat, and that it may never become fully flat due to poverty, war, or simple fear. He talks about the ramifications of a flat world, the ways it can go wrong, how terrorist networks take advantage of the same readily available work force and supply chain that Dell or Infosys does. He takes the first two thirds of the book and puts it into context. This part I read in just three days. This is the part I can use. Globalization isn't just about Americans losing jobs. It's so much bigger than that. It's about the flow of information, about vulnerability and anger, about global responsibility. Those last hundred and fifty pages were worth struggling through the first three hundred, but only highlight how The World is Flat is more mishmash than structured thesis. This gets two stars for the first two-thirds of the book and four stars for the last third, giving it an average of three stars. ...more The first big mistake I made was deciding to buy the 2.0 edition of the book (updated and expanded). Redundancy is one of the book\u2019s signature features so updating and expanding it only compounds the sins of this feature. My second big mistake was deciding to finish reading it after first running aground about half way through and taking a several month sabbatical to read more worthy books. All right I\u2019m being testy. It wasn\u2019t such a big mistake. Friedman is a smart guy but way too full of himse The first big mistake I made was deciding to buy the 2.0 edition of the book (updated and expanded). Redundancy is one of the book\u2019s signature features so updating and expanding it only compounds the sins of this feature. My second big mistake was deciding to finish reading it after first running aground about half way through and taking a several month sabbatical to read more worthy books. All right I\u2019m being testy. It wasn\u2019t such a big mistake. Friedman is a smart guy but way too full of himself, the book\u2019s title is sufficient evidence of that\u2014The World Is Flat, too cute and not up to the belaboring it gets\u2014and the false (on three fronts) humility of the subtitle. The book isn\u2019t brief and it is not a history, nor is there any humility in the pretend irony of \u201cA Brief History of the Twenty-First Century\u201d. Indeed there is no humility in this book that isn\u2019t a pretence designed to cast the author\u2019s brilliance in finer relief. And the man thinks he is Adam set loose in a new conceptual world where he is entitled to name anything and everything. You can run out of fingers and toes, even if you borrow those of friends and family, counting the times Friedman begins a sentence or phrase with a variation of \u201csomething I like to call\u2026\u201d I don\u2019t know in the whole history of publishing if there is a writer who claimed coining so many phrases, the majority of which are as pedestrian as they come. It\u2019s not just \u201cflat world\u201d and the concept of \u201cflattening\u201d or \u201cthe coefficient of flatness,\u201d it\u2019s \u201cGlobalization 1.0\u201d and it\u2019s 2.0 and 3.0 descendents, it\u2019s \u201cIn-forming\u201d, it\u2019s \u201cglocalization,\u201d it\u2019s, oh, why go on. This book had all the makings of an outstanding essay or two or three very good Sunday Times magazine features. It\u2019s got the trends in business, technology, and perhaps culture and politics right. It\u2019s by turns inspiring, scary, and tediously bloated. It is a wearying, self-promotional exercise in over and over re-stating what\u2019s became obvious twelve anecdotes and 34 declarations ago. The best part of the book and, for me, it\u2019s only enduring redeeming value is its bookmark, a Valentine\u2019s Day card, handmade by my fianc\u00e9e. But I don\u2019t think that came with everyone\u2019s copy. ...more Detailed, thorough, and very informative. Friedman has a folksy style of journalism that brings complex business and social processes down to earth (though he also has an undue penchant for coining obnoxious phrases, like \"glocalize\" or \"Islamo-Leninist\"). Good for getting a grip on the major issues of globalization, including things that affect you every day and you probably know nothing about. But you have to read between the lines. Friedman is openly supportive of globalization, and his presen Detailed, thorough, and very informative. Friedman has a folksy style of journalism that brings complex business and social processes down to earth (though he also has an undue penchant for coining obnoxious phrases, like \"glocalize\" or \"Islamo-Leninist\"). Good for getting a grip on the major issues of globalization, including things that affect you every day and you probably know nothing about. But you have to read between the lines. Friedman is openly supportive of globalization, and his presentation is generally from a corporate-level perspective with only occasional sorties into the gritty realities of the people who suffer because of it. I find his excessive focus on globalization's winners--India and China--disingenuous and his almost complete lack of any reference to Latin America and Africa disturbing. I find it irritating that he fails to decode the euphemisms that his executive interviewees commonly use, such as Wal-Mart's CEO referring to its \"low-cost business culture\" (which means no healthcare for employees). He has far too much faith in the magical power of markets to solve problems, breezily dismisses most of the serious objections to the current trends, and refuses to take seriously the social and psychological, in addition to economic, effects of globalization. But that's my political bent; your mileage may vary. This book has two main problems unconnected to political philosophy. First, proponents of globalization, especially journalistic trendcasters, face an insoluble paradox. By their own accounts, what is happening right now is a drastic reorganization that is an order of magnitude larger than the Industrial Revolution, an order of magnitude faster, and accelerating all the time. Yet they talk about these revolutionary developments as if the changes can be managed by reformed healthcare and education policies. The Industrial Revolution was accompanied by massive dislocation, population migrations, revolutions, colonialism, wrenching poverty, industrialized total war, and so on. If globalization is really so huge and so fast, then pretending that the same--or worse--is not going to happen is just stupid. Second, Friedman talks a lot about nations like India, China, and the U.S. with detailed policy critiques and prescriptions, but he seems to miss the logical result of globalization: the death of the nation-state. The free flow of capital and the internationalization of labor pools means transnational corporations with more money and more power than governments, with no national loyalties to tie them down and no serious rivals except each other. The erosion of the nation-state, and the imagined communities upon which modern identities are based, is as revolutionary a phenomenon as its formation in the first place, and that will necessarily change everything. I fail to understand why Friedman does not see the implications of the processes that he describes. Anyhoo. It's worth reading, even if Friedman makes you as angry as he made me, because at the least it brings up some issues that people should really start thinking about more carefully. ...more Holy sh... this book went on and on. And on. The world is flat, oh yes! I see! But how flat is the world again, Mr. Friedman? Tell me once again, exactly how flat is it? Really flat? You don't say! Maybe it's just me being a grad student for too long, but I prefer my nonfiction books to have a list of references. Perhaps a footnote or two. But this book is just a series of anecdotes with some jargon thrown in (Bangalore...curiosity quotient...flatteners...in-forming...Bangalore...compassionate fl Holy sh... this book went on and on. And on. The world is flat, oh yes! I see! But how flat is the world again, Mr. Friedman? Tell me once again, exactly how flat is it? Really flat? You don't say! Maybe it's just me being a grad student for too long, but I prefer my nonfiction books to have a list of references. Perhaps a footnote or two. But this book is just a series of anecdotes with some jargon thrown in (Bangalore...curiosity quotient...flatteners...in-forming...Bangalore...compassionate flatism...glocalization...Bangalore). But that's apparently what he intended. If you made it to page 629 in the 2006 version (bonus flatness!), you might have noticed that Friedman approvingly quotes Stanley Fischer as saying that \"one good example is worth a thousand theories.\" Uh, what? That doesn't make any sense. Freidman thinks so, though; this book is a thousand good examples that add up to a few coherent theories. Maybe the topic of globalization is just too broad to write concisely about, or maybe Friedman was looking at way too many trees rather than seeing the forest. But this book annoyed the hell out of me, and it only got worse as it went on. Not to say I wouldn't recommend it. I mean, read chapters 1-4, then just pick and choose what interests you in the middle, and then read 15-17 because those actually say something new. The book thoroughly covers globalization and the business world, and America's place in the new economy. It covers a lot of ground. And mostly, the ideas are great and well-founded. I did get a little squeamish at times, when Friedman's advocacy of free trade borders on trickle-down meritocratic patriotic Republicanisms. (See p. 496: \"The inspirational power of a local business success story is incalculable: There is no greater motivator for the poor than looking at one of their own who makes it big and saying: \"If she can do it, I can do it.'\") But his heart is in the right place, I think. (See p. 265: \"...a policy of free trade, while necessary, is not enough by itself. It must be accompanied by a focused domestic strategy aimed at upgrading the education of every American, so that he or she will be able to compete for the new jobs in a flat world.\") I can agree with that. But really, if you're under 30 you need to read this book like you need a hole in the head. You've been living it. Go read a blog. ...more I consider myself a bit of a tech-nerd. I love any new technology that is designed to enhance my life. I can't imagine life before my cell phone, my iPod, and my mac. I love flat-panel monitors, digital cameras and satellite radio. As such I considered myself pretty up on the latest technological advances. After reading this book, I realized that not only is technology affecting my life more than I was aware, but it is also changing the way the whole world interacts. This book explains (in layme I consider myself a bit of a tech-nerd. I love any new technology that is designed to enhance my life. I can't imagine life before my cell phone, my iPod, and my mac. I love flat-panel monitors, digital cameras and satellite radio. As such I considered myself pretty up on the latest technological advances. After reading this book, I realized that not only is technology affecting my life more than I was aware, but it is also changing the way the whole world interacts. This book explains (in laymens terms I could understand) that technology is changing the world on an almost daily basis and only the nations that are able to keep up will be able to compete in the new economy. This book is entertaining AND enlightening in a way that I was completely engrossed from the first chapter. Thomas Friedman's writng style is intelligent yet non-condescending. I recommend this to anyone whether you're a techno-geek or if you're just curious about how UPS works or even if you're wondering who the heck you're speaking with when you call \"Tech Support\". This book should almost be required reading. P.S. I'm new to goodreads so i will have plenty more reviews to come. This is just one of my recent favorites! ...more Heads in the sand should read this book!: This began as a response to one of the harsh reviews previously posted, but I figured it'd be just as good as a counterbalance in the review section. Using an approach the layman can understand, Friedman chronicles an event which took place (the flattening of the world, so to speak) right under our noses. He gives an excellent overview of how globalization really HAS helped the world, and he does it via plenty of footnoted research into actual events tha Heads in the sand should read this book!: This began as a response to one of the harsh reviews previously posted, but I figured it'd be just as good as a counterbalance in the review section. Using an approach the layman can understand, Friedman chronicles an event which took place (the flattening of the world, so to speak) right under our noses. He gives an excellent overview of how globalization really HAS helped the world, and he does it via plenty of footnoted research into actual events that took place to get us to this point in history. Commerce (or consumption, if you'd rather) is, whether you like to admit it or not, the backbone of ALL successful societies (you know, the ones that aren't still tearing themselves apart over dark age religions and living in sandy hellholes). Sure, it comes with a price, but what doesn't? The fight to stem global warming will no doubt come with a price (higher priced hybrid cars and other associated costs of being \"green\"), but in the end, our descendants will live vastly different lives centuries from now because of it. I'm sure the Negative Nellies here would be the first people to point fingers at how little the people in Chinese factories are paid (especially in light of the recent toy scandals), but don't want to know what options they had before they had those supposedly \"lousy\" factory jobs. Oh, that's right, they had NO options. The very fact that Friedman addresses the dark side of globalization in the book (and in related audio programs and interviews he's done over the last year or more) should indicate that he's well aware of the fall-out, but knows it's inevitable AND surmountable as more and more countries develop a middle class, even if it's a middle class build on knock-offs like China's. But with higher standards being slowly forced upon them as an exporter, the benefit will be higher standards of living for their people, and less reliance on the bootleg. The forces are already in play to legitimize much of what Friedman has outlined in the book, and so much the better we'll all be for it. It's not about how much we can consume, although boy can we North Americans consume, and we wanted to do it for less money, and now look where all our manufacturing jobs have gone. But don't worry, there will always be an infrastructure in place in western countries, and while some business goes overseas, new business springs up. Even a service-based economy is still an economy. But now former third world countries and/or failed dictator states are finally being given the opportunity that they could not possibly have taken before due to doomed philosphies: they can begin to think globally and come out of the dark ages, where once the only \"saviour\" someone believed they needed was spoonfed to them from birth, but really only an internal salve against raging poverty and/or oppression. THAT's the only useful function of most religions and many political systems, but that's another book altogether. THIS book is about something that is too big to suddenly stop because we fear for future generations. Instead, we have to find ways to make what already works, work better, so that future generations from ALL walks of life and from ALL countries can partake in better economies, and freer societies. Loathe globalization all you want, but in this day and age, and probably for many more ages to come, COMMERCE will be the major way to guarantee progress. Goodness knows, politics and religion have tried and failed repeatedly, so why NOT let the marketplace dictate progress. It works, and it's flaws can be corrected, as they are in all good sciences; it just takes time. And, if you're bummed out, as \"Casca\" appears to be in another review, that you couldn't start your own airline, you've missed the point again. The point is that we now live in a world that's more connected than at any point in the history of mankind, and we're only going to become MORE connected as time goes on. If you have the capabilities of utilizing that connectivity to further your own business plans, creativity, social life, knowledge, you'd be a fool not to give it a try. Hell, even the terrorists have done it! It's not about running down to your bank for $100 million loans. It's about seeing the world, and your place in it-particularly if your business is BUSINESS and actually making a decent living-being made better with the technology that's at your fingertips. The one's who are sticking their heads in the sand are the ones who can't fathom that the world flattened, as Friedman says, while they were sleeping. ...more I made it through \"A History of God\" and \"Absalom, Absalom!\" but I could not make myself finish this book. I gave it six weeks and 350 pages, but in the end I couldn't take any more. Friedman's writing is at times brilliant: he is a master synthesizer, taking complicated economic, political, technological, and social phenomena and artfully explaining the connections between them all and what that means for the future of our world. I had to give this book three stars because I did learn a great d I made it through \"A History of God\" and \"Absalom, Absalom!\" but I could not make myself finish this book. I gave it six weeks and 350 pages, but in the end I couldn't take any more. Friedman's writing is at times brilliant: he is a master synthesizer, taking complicated economic, political, technological, and social phenomena and artfully explaining the connections between them all and what that means for the future of our world. I had to give this book three stars because I did learn a great deal. Though I can't speak for the second half of the book, he does an excellent job of telling the stories of Wal-Mart, of outsourcing in India, of China's rise, and so on. Because I work in the administrative side of higher education, I was especially appreciative of his perspective on the growing global competitiveness in education and the American educational failures that are only just beginning to show their effects. He has a real talent for taking all these stories out of their silos and blending them together to paint an exhaustingly comprehensive picture of globalization. Be warned: Friedman very obviously knows he's a talented writer and decides that gives him license to write a 600 plus page book that could have been 350. He inserts hundreds of personal anecdotes that quickly wore on my patience, especially the dozen or so where he feels the need to remind us repeatedly that his daughter Orly went to Yale (the fact that I remember her name tells you how many times it was mentioned). He also delights in cheesy, italicized repetitions of lines from his many interviews as well as painfully corny metaphors. I realize I've spent more of this review on process rather than product, but that's what is a real shame about this book. In theory, I think this is a must-read. In practice, I commend anyone who makes it all the way through. The all-important content suffers too much from Friedman's often irritating and always lengthy prose. ...more I think this book represents what is wrong with a generation of baby boomers. Aside from being verbose and arrogant, it presents obvious observations as a favor to the reader, as if the reader is nowhere near as enlightened as Thomas Friedman is. In the process, he manages to name-drop, and attempts to convince us all the world is better by outsourcing. Every turn of the page made my blood boil to a higher temperature, so after nearly 200 pages, I handed it to Tony and instructed him to sell it. I think this book represents what is wrong with a generation of baby boomers. Aside from being verbose and arrogant, it presents obvious observations as a favor to the reader, as if the reader is nowhere near as enlightened as Thomas Friedman is. In the process, he manages to name-drop, and attempts to convince us all the world is better by outsourcing. Every turn of the page made my blood boil to a higher temperature, so after nearly 200 pages, I handed it to Tony and instructed him to sell it. I have better things to do with my time. ...more For those about to read this, I commend your bravery. \u201cThe World Is Flat: A Brief History of the 21st Century\u201d is a non-fiction book regarding business, recent history concerning globalization and its implications in the Information Age, and current affairs pertaining to the resulting effect, which Friedman calls the \u2018flattening of the world\u2019. This compels me to warn you of the reasons this review will suck; I am not a celebrated (or even competent) book critic, I also do not read many business For those about to read this, I commend your bravery. \u201cThe World Is Flat: A Brief History of the 21st Century\u201d is a non-fiction book regarding business, recent history concerning globalization and its implications in the Information Age, and current affairs pertaining to the resulting effect, which Friedman calls the \u2018flattening of the world\u2019. This compels me to warn you of the reasons this review will suck; I am not a celebrated (or even competent) book critic, I also do not read many business books, I am lacking computer knowledge and a general understanding of economic matters, and I\u2019ve long since allowed my membership to the Flat Earth Society lapse. With such a high probability of failure here, you might be wondering why you should read this review. This much I think I am capable of, as this explanation panders to your interests; this review will be less than 10,000 characters in length, whereas \u201cThe World is Flat\u201d will probably bore the tits off you for over 600 pages, all said, I\u2019m trying to save you some time here. Also, throughout \u201cThe World is Flat\u201d author Tommy Friedman will also confess to his own lacking credentials, which are almost identical to my own except for his repeated and humble confession he\u2019s a Pulitzer Prize-winning writer, so he\u2019s willing to tackle the important issue of the flattening of the world in a 600-page tome largely regarded as a masterpiece (presumably by people with no real world experience, who have just started their first job and have finally gotten some sort of hint about the way the business world works, or who are aspiring to land that first, comfy office job after graduating from the fast-food/retail minor leagues). To sum up this weak introduction, I\u2019m hoping the three minutes you spend here save you hours down the road. Sure, I am a long-winded clown with nothing of significance to say, inspired to repeat my meaningless gibberish over and over ad infinitum. After reading \u201cThe World is Flat\u201d, I can safely say that I can\u2019t hold a candle to Tommy-Gun Friedman in terms of sheer ability to incessantly babble on about the same points; often, he not only beats a horse to death, but rolls it over, and eventually gives it what some have called the \u2018dead horse\u2019 treatment, unless, of course, the point he\u2019s mulling over is firmly rooted in logic and runs counter to his beliefs, at which point he\u2019ll quickly gloss over it and dismiss it by citing a far-fetched example which couldn\u2019t be given any more credence than the ultimate exception to the rule. For anything which does manage to coexist with Friedman\u2019s system of beliefs, he reiterates each point dozens of times (which of course makes it more legitimate through repetition) and also provides confirmation via his preferred method, a \u2018proof is in the pudding\u2019 real life example, complete with an exciting \u201choly shit!\u201d conclusion to the story, such as \u201conly in a flat world can a man in Omaha call a customer service center, and speak to an Indian about replacement parts being manufactured in Shanghai!\u201d These testimonials to \u2018the way things are\u2019 appear to be little more than anecdotes which allow him to brag about leaders of industry he\u2019s currently hobnobbing with, almost always due to the critical acclaim his previous book, \u201cThe Lexus and the Olive Tree\u201d, was awarded. To borrow Tommy\u2019s style briefly, let me repeat: \u201cThe Lexus and the Olive Tree\u201d (TLATOT, from now on) is his significant 1999 work which I don\u2019t even feel I need to read, seeing as Friedman consults it heavily for material for \u201cThe World is Flat\u201d. How do I know it was published in 1999, he even mentions this fact multiple times; if every reference to \u201cTLATOT\u201d was removed, the book would be about 20 pages shorter. Here\u2019s a real example, taken directly from the book: \u201cIn 1999 I published a book on globalization called TLATOT. The phenomenon we call globalization was just taking off then, and TLATOT was one of the early attempts to put a frame around it. This book is not meant to replace TLATOT but rather to build on it and push the arguments forward as the world has evolved.\u201d Reading the words \u201cThe Lexus and the Olive Tree\u201d so many times was headache-inducing, akin to listening to a CD skipping, without the benefit of hearing one of your preferred bands kicking out the jams. None of this is very promising. What I find downright offensive in this book though, is the decision to include the word \u201chistory\u201d in the title. When I want some history, I want facts, data, photo evidence, fossils, hell maybe even a few mathematic equations which somehow back your statement: I want truths, not bias. As far as this being a \u201chistory\u201d of the 21st century, this book is a complete fucking failure. I can sum up Friedman\u2019s historical account in one long, crappy sentence: \u201ccomputer technology became big business and assisted every industry in reaching all corners of the globe, while changing the way everything was done and everyone\u2019s life, and the goddam rotten Bush administration is screwing it all up.\u201d This may or may not be true, but at the same time, for every issue which Friedman feels is impeding the stampeding march of technological advancement and globalization, he dumps the blame squarely on the front door of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Education is on the skids: Blame George Bush. Lagging economy: Ditto. Science/Tech research: George-Dub did it. Rising male impotence and shrinking penile girth: \u201cW\u201ds fault. For someone to present a book alluding to the representation of facts, I\u2019d expect it to be less subjective, instead Friedman carries his bias to ridiculous lengths and basically looks like a novice with his ceaseless slander of the current regime. The slanted journalism is a major drawback, and Tommy\u2019s maligning political entities appears to stop with the Bush Administration and the Republican party, as he quotes several \u201cwise\u201d Democrat congressmen throughout. Also deserving of Friedman\u2019s praise (and thus that of an enlightened reader) are what he calls the 10 Flatteners (in a long-rambling 150 page dissection of events from the demise of the Berlin Wall to the outsourcing trend), Bill Gates, Sam Walton, and of course, Thomas Friedman. Yes, in this version of his work, cleverly given the Version 3.0 tag, Friedman shows he has no qualms with shamelessly soliciting praise for his work to include in this update; a great example being how two teachers continents apart were so inspired by his wisdom to create a virtual/\u2018flat\u2019 classroom, and it should come to no shock that he Googled his masterpiece to see what public reaction was, only to be assured \u201cmany references are neutral or full of praise, others are vitriolic or flat-out nuts.\u201d After reading this book, I am hoping that in Version 4.0 Friedman takes the time to congratulate himself by asserting his work is the Eleventh Flattener. I would be wrong to state there is nothing of interest in \u201cThe World is Flat\u201d, however, it\u2019s unfortunate that most of it comes at the beginning of the book, leaving the remaining 400 pages relatively pathetic and dedicated to Tom\u2019s musings. While describing his 10 Flatteners, Friedman isn\u2019t given as much opportunity to state his opinion as he is later, so he does focus more on hard facts. For someone who isn\u2019t too computer savvy or overly interested in computers in general, the history of the Internet was surprisingly engrossing. The thing which resonated most with me was his evaluation of international trade and the modern supply chain, which isn\u2019t too shocking seeing as I happen to be a logistician myself. While it is nice to see Friedman show proper respect to the badasses working in a supply chain capacity, it is somewhat nullified that at after any tidbit he learns, he pulls off the can-you-believe-it! schtick as an exclamation point. Still, even with the author giving thanks to the zombies slaving away in my profession, I found most of this book extremely difficult to digest; mainly due to Tom\u2019s insistence to surround his opinions with facts, in an attempt to solidify their righteousness. And each one of these things \u201chas always been his belief\u201d; he must say that about 100 times, leading me to think not only must he not do a whole hell of a lot of listening to opposition opinions, but it also seems weird that for a guy who apparently just learned this item or the other, that\u2019s he\u2019s always had an stance on it. Some of the things he\u2019s always been sure of: Unchecked, rampant capitalism is a godsend and the mother of invention, big government, regulation, and any political beliefs differing from his own will ultimately stop progress dead in its tracks. Getting rich quick off some online gimmick that serves no benefit to humanity is completely awesome, participants in internet sex of any sort are filthmongers and the scourge of the Information Age. But my biggest disagreement with his beliefs is in our world-view. Friedman is stoked that almost anyone, anywhere can no compete in business nowadays, as sees this trend as the salvation to the destitute masses globally. I couldn\u2019t disagree more, I\u2019m more of a \u2018clean your own backyard first\u2019 guy, I could never understand extending any sort of help to anyone without knowing that my peeps are taken care of first, and I\u2019m not particularly fond of this change in the world, in which my peeps are pissing away any advantage we once had by spreading the peas too far on the plate. I see the culmination of Friedman\u2019s principles resulting in the American middle class becoming the working poor, whereas his book concludes with his affirming and promising account of a Pulitzer Prize winner dropping his daughter off at an affluent university on a serene September day. ...more I'd like to recommend this book to every American under 35 years old, but I can't. They won't read it. Why? It's a 300-page book crammed into 635 pages. Friedman had all sorts of good ideas--important stuff--but he's so busy patting himself on the back, telling us what he's going to tell us (or has already told us) and bashing Bush that he just rambles on and on. Reporters are supposed to give readers the essentials plus enough facts to make the story real and enough anecdotes to make it immediat I'd like to recommend this book to every American under 35 years old, but I can't. They won't read it. Why? It's a 300-page book crammed into 635 pages. Friedman had all sorts of good ideas--important stuff--but he's so busy patting himself on the back, telling us what he's going to tell us (or has already told us) and bashing Bush that he just rambles on and on. Reporters are supposed to give readers the essentials plus enough facts to make the story real and enough anecdotes to make it immediate. The World is Flat reads as if it was out-sourced to one of those Indian call centers Friedman warns us wants our jobs. Too bad he didn't; the Indians might have done a better job. ...more The premise is that due in large part to technology the world is becoming flatter. Thomas Friedman clearly thinks this is a great thing with very few drawbacks. In fact, he doesn't address any drawback except in passing (other than the random aside that terrorists can use the Internet to network too) until the penultimate chapter. This is clearly meant to be a book about how globalization affects the individual. Friedman tries to show this by sharing anecdotes and interviews but nearly every sin The premise is that due in large part to technology the world is becoming flatter. Thomas Friedman clearly thinks this is a great thing with very few drawbacks. In fact, he doesn't address any drawback except in passing (other than the random aside that terrorists can use the Internet to network too) until the penultimate chapter. This is clearly meant to be a book about how globalization affects the individual. Friedman tries to show this by sharing anecdotes and interviews but nearly every single person he talks to and every story he shares is about a founder or head of a company and the few that aren't deal with people who are no more than 3 levels from the top of the company. Hardly \"everyman.\" The book has a lot to say about what CEOs and entrepreneurs can do to stay competitive (mainly keep innovating, not exactly a new idea) but there is very little about what the rest of us can do besides \"continue to try to make ourselves employable.\" He proposes that companies make sure their employees are employable and in return employees give their loyalty. This seems unrealistic given today\u2019s business climate. He views the Internet as a great leveling force, but mentions the censorship in China only in passing and doesn\u2019t discuss how it affects his theory. I believe he thinks the situation is temporary but as major companies seem happy to cooperate with filtering, I don't see change in the near future. Friedman is also very big on the idea of globalization as an economic equalizer. He goes on at length about how it's a force for good because it dramatically raises the standard of living in developing nations, particularly India, but it isn't until the penultimate chapter that he admits that's only true for about 2% of India's population. And while he's busy talking about what a great opportunity it is in terms of income and how Indians no longer have to emigrate to have a much improved standard of living and that even those abroad can have access to hometown newspapers ,etc. he doesn't seem to realize the contradiction when he mentions a man who started an elementary school for India's Untouchable class, hoping to prove that with the right education they can be just like the higher castes but who then must to move elsewhere after they are educated because their last name reveals their caste. While he was trying to argue that the Internet will eventually bring more income equality it seemed to me that it made the rich richer and the poor were still left behind. (And never a word about the exponential difference between CEOs and the lowest paid employee). It\u2019s good that high caste Indians have a better standard of living but we're still seeing the standards improve for the people at the top and not much change for everyone else. He talks about Wal-Mart\u2019s \"just in time\" model of business and in his penultimate chapter he does address some of the problems. A global supply chain can be decimated by war, disease, or natural disaster and if things are only delivered \"just in time\" companies can be completely screwed. The advantage of this is that it makes countries think twice about going to war (specifically countries like India/Pakistan and China/Taiwan) because they know if they screw up the global supply chain companies will be extremely wary of ever investing in that country again. But Friedman extols the virtues of Wal-Mart's use of RFID technology without mentioning the concerns of privacy advocates. I think one of Friedman's biggest failings is that so much of the book is about the Internet as a great equalizer and there is not one word about Net Neutrality. The book was updated, revised and re released in April of 2006 so Net Neutrality was a known issue. Having said all of that, the book was still an interesting read. I learned a lot of random things about various companies. ...more If you haven't been paying attention over the past 10-15 years to the changing of the global marketplace, this book is a must read. Even if you have been aware of it, this book is worth a skim. Friedman explores the technological changes as well as the political values which have caused the US to start losing competitiveness to China and India. Progressive pro-business governments in those two countries (yes even China) have embraced technological change and allowed them to rapidly catch up with If you haven't been paying attention over the past 10-15 years to the changing of the global marketplace, this book is a must read. Even if you have been aware of it, this book is worth a skim. Friedman explores the technological changes as well as the political values which have caused the US to start losing competitiveness to China and India. Progressive pro-business governments in those two countries (yes even China) have embraced technological change and allowed them to rapidly catch up with the US. If you don't believe it, this is a book you definitely should read. These are my quick thoughts: 1. Even though the trends remain the same, it is amazing how dated this book has become just 2 years after it was published due to the global financial crisis and the continued advancement of technology. I think Friedman should write an updated version and instead of calling it The World is Flat he should call it The World is Fu**ed. 2. The book is probably 300 pages too long (I read the expanded and revised version), but it is a relatively quick read. Once you get his thesis (which doesn't take too long) you can breeze through the rest. Though Friedman is an engaging enough writer to keep your interest, there is a lot of redundancy. 3. If you are in the anti-progress, anti-science republican party, this may be a tough read, but it is very fair, give it a chance, even if Friedman does gloss over some of the not so good parts of China and India. 4. Friedman is the best journalist on the Middle East and the sections where he touches upon how technology and government innovation (or lack of) have effected the Middle East are among the most interesting. 5. You don't need to be interested in business to be interested in this book. It goes beyond business. Friedman is really talking about huge cultural shifts that are occuring which are leading to the US losing it's place as the world leader. ...more Udah setahun punya buku ini.. bacanya gak kelar-kelar.. tebel banget sih.. bisa dijadiin bantal. Sekarang diniatin untuk kelar.. sayang udah dibeli tebel-tebel,.. eh salah.. mahal-mahal.. Dan hasilnya... Amazing. Dahsyat. Friedman adalah pengamat yang jitu, jeli dan mendalam. Juga seseorang futurist yang kayaknya sih tepat. Dimulai dengan perenungannya tentang dunia yang datar, saat one day dia bermain golf di satu tempat di India. Saat ia akan memukul, ada yg mengarahkan : \u201cArahkan ke Microsoft at Udah setahun punya buku ini.. bacanya gak kelar-kelar.. tebel banget sih.. bisa dijadiin bantal. Sekarang diniatin untuk kelar.. sayang udah dibeli tebel-tebel,.. eh salah.. mahal-mahal.. Dan hasilnya... Amazing. Dahsyat. Friedman adalah pengamat yang jitu, jeli dan mendalam. Juga seseorang futurist yang kayaknya sih tepat. Dimulai dengan perenungannya tentang dunia yang datar, saat one day dia bermain golf di satu tempat di India. Saat ia akan memukul, ada yg mengarahkan : \u201cArahkan ke Microsoft atau IBM\u201d. Itu adalah dua bangunan baja dan kaca yang berkilauan. Seakan limbung, antara di Kansas \u2026 tidak, ia di India. Tapi semua penanda adalah icon icon Amerika. Sesuatu yang terjadi di mana pun. Pernah saya di atas layang Casablanca persis yang di atas Sudirman. Arahkan pandang ke arah gedung Bursa Efek.. oh.. mirip dengan pemandangan yang pernah saya lihat di Hongkong. Pencakar langit yang tak akrab memenuhi langit. Tapi bukan sekedar itu. Buku ini mengangkat kondisi kehidupan di dunia yang saat ini terasa datar. Sesuatu yang terjadi di New York, saat yang sama terjadi di Jakarta. Suatu peristiwa di belahan bumi lain, akan dapat dilihat sekejap dari belahan bumi yang lain lagi. Luar biasa. Kecanggihan teknologi, komunikasi, membuat dunia ini semakin terasa kecil. Terasa datar. Beberapa point menarik dari buku ini di antaranya kekuatan-kekuatan yang membuat dunia ini menjadi datar. Kita yang mengalami, mungkin merasakan kekuatan itu, akan setuju dengan Friedman. Runtuhnya tembok Berlin. Netscape. Anyone remember ? browser yang sangat nyaman dipakai di tahun2 90\u2019an akhir, ketika IE dari Microsoft belum gratis dan belum senyaman sekarang. Workflow. Yang membuat prosedur kerja tidak perlu lagi dilakukan secara manual by kertas. Dulu kalau kita ingin cuti, mesti ambil form di HRD, isi, masuk ke ruang atasan, minta approval, balikin ke HRD. Sekarang ? cukup dari meja kerja kita. Click ke web tempat cuti online, klik, klik, klik, klik, klik.. beres. No need to go anywhere. Uploading. Merubah semua orang bisa menjadi pemberi informasi. Dulu bikin website susahnya setengah mati, mesti belajar dan ngerti kode html. Sekarang. Cukup mengerti klik klik klik klik.. jadi blog yg keren. Outsourcing. Offshoring. Pekerjaan yang bukan core, berikan pada pihak lain, dan ini sudah lintas negara. Teringat pertemuan dengan seorang teman sekitar 2 bulan lalu. Dia bilang, dia akan kena lay-off. Bukan karena global crisis. Tapi karena perusahaannya mengoffshore accounting function ke India, dan di Indonesia hanya dipertahankan 3 orang, yang bertugas sebagai document scanner. Ck ck ck\u2026 Supply Chain. Mempertegas hilangnya hambatan antar negara. Insourcing. Informing. Semua bisa mencari informasi sendiri. Googling akan menjadi mata pelajaran di sekolah ( ;-).. yg ini dari saya). Steroid. Digital, mobile, personal dan virtual. Peralatan yang menemani kita dalam keseharian, diistilahkan oleh Friedman sebagai steroid. Itu adalah hal-hal yang membuat dunia ini menjadi datar. Yang menarik, Friedman tidak saja sebagai presentis, pengamat, tetapi juga berlaku sebagai futuris, peramal. Salah satunya adalah bagaimana kita memperkuat diri kita menjadi pribadi yang eksis di dunia datar ini. Tentunya dari kacamata bisnis. Pengetahuan, ketrampilan, ide dan motivasi, akan menjadi modal kekuatan pribadi yang dominan. Pribadi, akan berperan dominan dalam era dunia datar. Jika dalam globalisasi 1.0, negara harus mengglobal, kemudian dalam globalisasi 2.0, perusahaan harus mengglobal, maka dalam globalisasi 3.0, pribadi lah yang harus mengglobal. Individu dituntut untuk berpikir global supaya bisa berkembang, atau sekurang-kurangnya bisa bertahan hidup. Jadi bukan saja keterampilan teknis yang dibutuhkan, tetapi kelenturan mental, motivasi diri dan mobilitas psikologis harus dikuasai. Tak pernah cukup menjadi orang yang sedang-sedang saja (mediocre). Kita harus menjadi yang tak terjamah. Ini berarti orang yg pekerjaannya tidak dapat dioutsource, didigitalkan, atau diotomatisasikan. Apa or siapa kah itu ? Friedman membagi dalam tiga kategori. Pertama adalah orang-orang yang istimewa. JK Rowling satu contohnya. Kedua, orang-orang yang menetap. Mereka memang dibutuhkan di lokasi itu. Tukang cukur, satu contohnya. Kita tidak mungkin cukur rambut secara virtual. Yang ketiga, kelas menengah. Inilah yang terberat, karena kita berada di level ini. Maaf, bukan kita, saya. Kelas menengah harus memiliki keunggulan kompetitif untuk bersaing dengan sesama kelas menengah yang lain. Harus punya nilai tambah. Jadi meskipun secara literal, pekerjaan kelas menengah itu bisa dioutsource, didigitalkan, atau diotomatisasikan, tapi ada value di pribadi itu yang tidak bisa didapat lewat proses outsource, digital dan otomatis. Be special. Bagaimana untuk menjadi special ? Beberapa kemampuan harus dimiliki. Kolaborator. Orkestrator. Mampu menjadi dirigen sebuah orkestra, yang terdiri dari banyak komponen musisi, tetapi menghadirkan musik yang indah. Pesintesa. Bisa menjadi dot people, maupun big picture people. Bisa melihat gambaran luas, mampu mendeteksi gambaran detail. Penjelas yang hebat. Bisa menjelaskan sesuatu yang rumit, dalam bahasa yang mudah, sehingga dapat dimengerti oleh orang awam sekalipun. Pengadaptasi. Tinggalkan spesialisasi, arahkan ke \u201cserba bisa\u201d dan \u201cadaptif\u201d. Pecinta lingkungan. Pemberi sentuhan pribadi. Ini yang menarik. Everything with personal touch.. will be more valuable. Ingat, manusia adalah makhluk sosial yang menikmati kontak personal. Kontak manusiawi. Seasyik-asyiknya conference, tetap lebih asyik chat bilateral. Lokalisator yang hebat. Hati-hati.. bukan lokalisasi.. 8-). Untuk bisa meraih kemampuan itu, kita harus memiliki kemampuan untuk belajar bagaimana belajar. Learn how to learn. Terus menerus menyerap, mengajari diri sendiri. Untuk bisa belajar bagaimana belajar, syarat pertama adalah cinta belajar! Or at least, menikmatinya. CQ + PQ > IQ. Ketika dunia menjadi datar, keingintahuan dan antusiasme terhadap sebuah pekerjaan, keberhasilan, pokok masalah, ataupun sebuah hobi akan menjadi jauh lebih penting. CQ = curious quotient. PQ = passion quotient. Keingintahuan dan gairah yang tinggi, akan lebih penting dibandingkan IQ yang tinggi. Kita perlu bersentuhan kembali dengan antusiasme, gairah yang polos/kekanak-kanakan atas suatu pekerjaan, tanpa peduli gaji, jam kerja, maupun persiapan yang dibutuhkan. Kita perlu menyukai orang. Kita harus mampu berinteraksi dengan orang lain secara baik. Keterampilan relasi, adalah aset dalam dunia kerja, dan juga dalam dunia datar. Ingatlah, interaksi yang mendalam dan pribadi, tidak pernah dapat dioutsource, didigitalkan, atau diotomatisasikan. Tingkatkan kemampuan otak kanan, sebanding dengan otak kiri. Di dunia datar yang banjir oleh data, informasi, dicekik oleh alternatif pilihan, kemampuan yang penting adalah mendekati jiwa dari belahan otak kanan, yaitu kemampuan artistik, empati, melihat gambaran besar, dan kemampuan menelusuri hal-hal yang transenden, beyond, melampaui diri. Lebih memilih untuk membangun relasi dibandingkan transaksi. Tinggalkan one hit action. Jadi ketika kita mendengar seseorang berbicara, lakukan yang anda cintai, itu bukan lah kata mutiara. Tapi itu adalah strategi untuk bertahan hidup, di dunia datar ini. Mau lanjut ?.. baca saja bukunya yah\u2026 Sementara... gak sabar saya nunggu buku terbaru dari Friedman, Hot, Flat and Crowded. -andri- http://kubunetwork.multiply.com ...more What an excellent book. It is a really compelling tale of the current state of the world in regards to free trade, outsourcing, and technology. I\u2019ve never read a book before where I literally found myself agreeing with every point that was made. I thought all of his ideas were spot on. He has a great way with words and with breaking concepts down into simple terms. But at the same time, still being able to remain technical. I especially liked his \u201cDell Theory of Conflict Prevention\u201c. He is referr What an excellent book. It is a really compelling tale of the current state of the world in regards to free trade, outsourcing, and technology. I\u2019ve never read a book before where I literally found myself agreeing with every point that was made. I thought all of his ideas were spot on. He has a great way with words and with breaking concepts down into simple terms. But at the same time, still being able to remain technical. I especially liked his \u201cDell Theory of Conflict Prevention\u201c. He is referring to Dell, the multi-national computer conglomerate. Whether or not you like Dell, you have to admit that their supply chain and usage of technology to get your computer order taken, assembled, and shipped is amazing. (For details on this supply chain, see pages 414 - 419 in the book.) \u201cNo two countries that are both part of a major global supply chain, like Dell\u2019s, will ever fight a war against each other as long as they are both part of the same global supply chain. Because people embedded in major global supply chains don\u2019t want to fight old-time wars anymore. They want to make just-in-time deliveries of goods and services \u2014 and enjoy the rising standards of living that come with that.\u201d \u2014 The World Is Flat, p. 421 He translates participation in what I would call \u201cultra-capitalism\u201d as a so-called \u201ccure\u201d for war mongering. Ha! But I admit, it does certainly make sense. It is an excellent book. Anyone who is involved in anything having to do with technology today should certainly read it. And for anyone else, it is a good insight into how quickly the world is changing, right under everyone\u2019s noses. ...more Friedman is a journalist, not an economist, so the book is more like an extended magazine article than a scientific study. The information is mostly anecdotal, but the conclusions are sound and important. The long-standing guarantee of a middle class life in America is disappearing, and our sense of entitlement to it needs to catch up. If we truly believe in the principles of capitalist meritocracy that have served America so well, we shouldn't be afraid that more countries get to join the game. Friedman is a journalist, not an economist, so the book is more like an extended magazine article than a scientific study. The information is mostly anecdotal, but the conclusions are sound and important. The long-standing guarantee of a middle class life in America is disappearing, and our sense of entitlement to it needs to catch up. If we truly believe in the principles of capitalist meritocracy that have served America so well, we shouldn't be afraid that more countries get to join the game. We should be playing harder. Those with money always want to protect it from those without. For a simple (and almost certainly inaccurate) example, imagine if prosperous 18th century orange growers from Pennsylvania wanted to impose import taxes on oranges from Georgia. We'd end up with more expensive oranges in Pennsylvania and Pennsylvanian lands that weren't utilized to their fullest potential. The country has benefitted in the long run from allowing free trade, even if it caused some pain at the start. Just like the fictional 18th-century Pennsylvanians, America needs to embrace its comparative advantages and not dwell on the short-term change in earning opportunites that result. Our policies should try to soften the impact of globalization for those affected and prepare our people for the new economy. We cannot prevent globalization and denial only leaves us unprepared. Then again, I'm in manufacturing, so I have no credibility here. :) ...more This is an tedious summary of everything you already know about globalization, wrapped around a series of pet phrases and personal anecdotes that are not poignant, relevant, illustrative, or particularly apt. Perhaps it is because this book is a couple years old now (though mine was an updated edition), but for a book that purports to be so prophetic, this really seems like last century's news. You'd have to be either very isolated or very old to be shocked by any of these dusty observations. I This is an tedious summary of everything you already know about globalization, wrapped around a series of pet phrases and personal anecdotes that are not poignant, relevant, illustrative, or particularly apt. Perhaps it is because this book is a couple years old now (though mine was an updated edition), but for a book that purports to be so prophetic, this really seems like last century's news. You'd have to be either very isolated or very old to be shocked by any of these dusty observations. I suppose it is because Mr. Friedman thinks these are new or profound ideas that he feels the need to summarize them in catch phrases, which he then repeats until they take on a Seussian absurdity. Seriously, how many times does he have to write \"The fall of the wall\"? I'm not sure if Mr. Friedman thinks he's writing to people who need constant repetition or if he just likes pages, but this could have been a much shorter book. ...more The flat piece of work was further flattened by the fact that Thomas Friedman thinks to think that his readers' brains are as flat as his metaphor. It's not a particularly complicated concept, but Friedman seems to feel the need to drive it home at least once on every single page. Methinks that the only thing Friedman loves more than his own intellect (any maybe his moustache) is his flat metaphor. Flatty flatty flat flat flatness flatocity flaticity.... P.S. Flat. I'll call it the \"Book of impressions\". As a reporter writes a business book for the geo-political powers governing our era and the one to come, you see more stories than true scientific analysis. It could be good enough for a layman but not for someone looking for deep/real analysis. Hopefully I will write a full review soon. Did you say \"FLAT\"? Thomas Friedman\u2019s The World is Flat has been ubiquitously referenced in the last several years. Friedman is a hack. Let\u2019s examine his treatise: Technological and economical developments have removed geography as a barrier to productivity, making it possible and necessary for people from all over the globe to work together. Quite frankly, I just stated it better than he did in his entire book. But if you are still tempted to read, The World is Flat, please realize that the cover is all you really Thomas Friedman\u2019s The World is Flat has been ubiquitously referenced in the last several years. Friedman is a hack. Let\u2019s examine his treatise: Technological and economical developments have removed geography as a barrier to productivity, making it possible and necessary for people from all over the globe to work together. Quite frankly, I just stated it better than he did in his entire book. But if you are still tempted to read, The World is Flat, please realize that the cover is all you really need. Pick it up. Put it down. That\u2019s it. You\u2019re done. I read this when it first released, and Friedman, in truth, doesn\u2019t tell us anything we don\u2019t already know. Anyone that spent any amount of time whatsoever in (or even near) corporate America during the 1990s already knows as much, and likely far more, than Friedman\u2019s globetrotting cocktail napkin ruminations will ever reveal. Friedman appears to have visited far corners of the globe in search of people who will quote his title back to him. In fact, through his artless narratives, we witness a multitude of shills parroting the book jacket, almost like audience plants at a hypnotist show. It\u2019s very clearly artificial, and by that I mean... bullshit. Take corporate experience out of it. Remove the global outsourcing initiatives, the quest for cheap labor, and the video chat boardrooms. Call tech support. Seriously, call tech support, and throw Freidman\u2019s book away. You already know. Over the past two years, I have seen The World is Flat appear (in serious academic citation form) in two collegiate textbooks. This is ominous. It is dangerous. The Freidman academic cult has spun four words into more than just an excuse for new diversity training seminars, they have knighted an itinerate opinion pimp as their standard bearer. Let\u2019s examine, therefore, the man\u2019s qualifications to speak as an expert on any topic. Freidman is a journalist. That\u2019s his gig, and in that capacity he bears one specific qualification: He is able to crank out a few hundred words a week at a fourth grade reading level. That\u2019s the sum of the man\u2019s gifts, and the full breadth of his expertise on the global economy. In additional to The World is Flat, Freidman has apparently amassed a tremendous garbage heap of opinions, evident by the number of recent tomes he has published. The man is an expert on everything\u2026 for fourth graders\u2026 for NY Times readers\u2026 and for college professors. Neat. Real life doesn\u2019t let you quote yourself and then become an expert by searching the planet for someone who will (with enough prodding) puke out the same four words. The blogosphere is teeming with fourth-grade level opinion-pimps. Perhaps there is still room out there for Friedman and his slobbering, gap-jawed, self-congratulating \u201cone-world\u201d acolytes: Or the Times. There\u2019s always the Times. ...more My cousin bought me this book when I was 17, me thinking it might actually be a \"History\" book, since it says \"History of the 21st century\" and I read about 3/4 of the god awful book, until I just could not read it anymore (especially when it got to chapters devoted to advice for businesses in globalization). I think was the first book I just could not finish because it was so awful to read. First off his book has awful style and use confusing metaphors, you hear about flatteners and that the wor My cousin bought me this book when I was 17, me thinking it might actually be a \"History\" book, since it says \"History of the 21st century\" and I read about 3/4 of the god awful book, until I just could not read it anymore (especially when it got to chapters devoted to advice for businesses in globalization). I think was the first book I just could not finish because it was so awful to read. First off his book has awful style and use confusing metaphors, you hear about flatteners and that the world is flat. I couldn't help but make annotations every few pages about how weak his points were and how the ability to teleconference and for the middle class to Facebook does not at all address sweatshops, the painful transition of mass layoffs in industry due to trade agreements (including ours), increasing wealth disparity, and the widespread poverty in the world. He even makes one argument about how a kid can look up all the info in the world on Google in Subsaharan Africa, so that means that we've all got equal opportunity. (And this point is defeated in that that kid won't have stable electricity source to charge his cell phone, and a ton of kids won't even have the money to have a cell phone!) It was basically a bunch of cheerleading of advances in IT and Walmart and other's vertical integration of the supply chain. I dunno about Thomas Friedman but I actually took really hard legitimate economics classes at university (3 actually)and I know exactly what the major economic theories promise, what the weaknesses of their assumptions are, where they don't easily apply. His implicit assumption is that the free flow of capital aka corporate globalization is good and uses metaphors and anectodes to try to proves thi and not actually spend time or citing social science proving that the world's economic playing field is being leveled (which is what he's trying to say by the world is flat\" He thinks that he can sum up the history of the 21st century by traveling first class and talking to CEOs in India and doesn't note the increasing wealth disparity in those countries. I love Google, Yahoo, the web browser, and video chatting as much as the next person (which there are entire chapters dedicated to these different things) but that doesn't mean that I believe neoliberal economic globalization is great because we have Google. This book really didn't have a great argument and did a poor job of providing evidence. I'd beg you to read something else on globalization or economics. ...more There are some people in the world who are born cynic. They are too fussy about everything they are (most often NOT) expected to express views on. They can give an hour lecture on the emptiness of a half-filled glass and still won't be tired of it. Now, there is another category of men, who are exactly opposite of them. They are more than required positive. The half filled glass looks to them as a lake of chilled coconut milk. They are at awe at everything and talk excitedly exaggerating everythi There are some people in the world who are born cynic. They are too fussy about everything they are (most often NOT) expected to express views on. They can give an hour lecture on the emptiness of a half-filled glass and still won't be tired of it. Now, there is another category of men, who are exactly opposite of them. They are more than required positive. The half filled glass looks to them as a lake of chilled coconut milk. They are at awe at everything and talk excitedly exaggerating everything that cuts their view. I don't know what you call them. Born appreciator? Whatever! I think you got the point. Many business people fall into this category. No No. Not the salesmen. They just appear like those. But internally they might have a facet of a cynic. I am talking about those who are high up, who make up their day by picking some key words and relentlessly going on and on about how great they think about those. In my opinion, <---A>Thomas L. Friedman</---A>, the famous author of \"The World is Flat\", is also one of them. \"Now, Technology has shrunken the world. Changing perspectives have enabled the businessmen to take their businesses out of their regional boundaries. Financial decisions are more profit oriented than driven by nationalism.\" - with this premise Friedman has written an entire book with so much zeal and research, that it has become like text book material for many people who never forget to mention that they have done a Masters in Business Administration during their introduction. Regarding the book, it is a good read. You will find yourself nodding, just like me, with what is written most of the time. Initially I thought my nodding was a token of appreciation, later it turned out to be the result of dozing. Anyway, the book is very well written and hence, a good read. With so much data, anecdotes, experiences, you would love to agree with it more often than otherwise. ...more Started this book over a year ago and just finished it today. How many times does Friedman have to say \"the world is flat\" for us to get it? I've never read a book with so many anecdotal and innocuous stories just to prove that the title is far from misnomer. Most of the content in this book just seemed like common sense after reviewing modern econ theories and histories. This resulted in skimming about 1/4 of the book, mainly the stories that repeatedly resulted in \"Hey guess what, here is yet Started this book over a year ago and just finished it today. How many times does Friedman have to say \"the world is flat\" for us to get it? I've never read a book with so many anecdotal and innocuous stories just to prove that the title is far from misnomer. Most of the content in this book just seemed like common sense after reviewing modern econ theories and histories. This resulted in skimming about 1/4 of the book, mainly the stories that repeatedly resulted in \"Hey guess what, here is yet more proof that the world is flat\" I can't bash the whole book though. While the story of globalization presented by Friedman is about 300 pages too long, it does contain some great advice on how America can change its policies to better enhance innovation among its future workforce. Information about the perfect storm facing the American workforce was intriguing and alarming. Stories of how less developed countries can harness our new world were encouraging. Great for someone unfamiliar with modern economic theories and initially bitter to globalization. If you've read anything on modern global trends and economic principles released in the last 3 years, this book is not worth the price tag. Also, if you are familiar with \"The internets\" you probably have already figured out most of what Friedman is talking about. I'm sure the stories presented in this book were revolutionary a few years ago... but apparently in a flat world books about globalization go out of date rather quickly. ...more I listened to the audiobook version while traveling with some quiet folks. So this was about all I heard. And it seemed to me that most of the time I spent listening was hearing the author repeat his thesis, \"the world is flat\". And each time he would express his amazement and gush about how relevant his revelation is to modern life. It felt like he had a hard time getting over how brilliant he is. This book could have been compressed into a booklet. And a mighty fine one at that. Had that been d I listened to the audiobook version while traveling with some quiet folks. So this was about all I heard. And it seemed to me that most of the time I spent listening was hearing the author repeat his thesis, \"the world is flat\". And each time he would express his amazement and gush about how relevant his revelation is to modern life. It felt like he had a hard time getting over how brilliant he is. This book could have been compressed into a booklet. And a mighty fine one at that. Had that been done, I would have praised that booklet for it's value and it's careful analysis of how globalization of our economy and market is affecting our way of life and how it is integrating into our daily activities. Borrow the book from a friend, read the first few chapters, read the titles of the middle chapters, skim the end, and you would have done some worthwhile reading. But the rest of it most likely not worth your time. If however, you happen to be new to the powers of the internet and things like satellites and fiber optic cables, then disregard what I've said above, and go read the book. This book seems to have been written for just that demographic. (And that demographic is not a bad thing) ...more Truth can be a little scary. Friedman has a way of explaining the world as we know it, but more important what we do not understand that we should. A great and though provoking read. Repetitive. Just read the dust jacket. Globalization is leveling the playing field. Example, repeat catch phrase, rinse. \u201cAlmost all the students who make it to Caltech, one of the best scientific universities in the world, come from public schools. So it can be done. \" Yes. \u201cIn China today, Bill Gates is Britney Spears. In America today, Britney Spears is Britney Spears-and that is our problem.\u201d Very true. THE WORLD IS FLAT: A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY (RELEASE 3.0) BY THOMAS FRIEDMAN: Thomas Friedman is a well known columnist for the New York Times and the person to turn to for answer\u2019s about this country\u2019s economy and where it\u2019s headed. The premiere hardcover edition of The World is Flat hit the bookshelves in April of 2006, and in that time it has gone through a second edition in hardcover, and finally a third edition in both paperback and hardcover. Friedman\u2019s excuse for updati THE WORLD IS FLAT: A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY (RELEASE 3.0) BY THOMAS FRIEDMAN: Thomas Friedman is a well known columnist for the New York Times and the person to turn to for answer\u2019s about this country\u2019s economy and where it\u2019s headed. The premiere hardcover edition of The World is Flat hit the bookshelves in April of 2006, and in that time it has gone through a second edition in hardcover, and finally a third edition in both paperback and hardcover. Friedman\u2019s excuse for updating is that the world is constantly changing, necessitating further chapters in his book. One wonders if there may be a \u201cRelease 4.0\u201d in the paperback; only time and our ever-changing present will tell. Nevertheless, The World is Flat is a truly unique book, whether it be for a student of economics, or a person looking for answers to why outsourcing is getting so out of control. Friedman begins with an introduction to how he discovered that the world had become flat; noticing details here and there in his travels around the world, and then putting it all together. He then leads into his ten forces that flattened the world, explaining how they came to be, what effect they had on the \u201cflattening\u201d of the world, and how some are continuing to do so. These include two important dates: 11/9/89, which was when the Berlin Wall came down and eastern Europe and Russia joined the rest of the world once again; and 8/9/95 when Netscape first released its browser to computer owners, allowing them to surf this new thing called the Internet. Friedman hits every important step in the way business has changed in the last three decades: from Wal-Mart\u2019s ingenuity in supply-chaining, leading to the incredible system whereby a product is purchased at a Wal-Mart store sending a message to the supplier which immediately starts making another copy of that product; to software development in its original free form with LINUX; to the light speed development of sites like MySpace, Facebook, and online blogs where everyone has a voice; to the existence of large buildings in places like Bangalore, India, housing thousands of customer service representatives helping American customers thousands of miles away with anything from credit card bills to cellphone technical questions. With these ten factors serving as a basis for how and why the world has become flattened, Friedman takes the reader on a trip around the world, elucidating exactly why when we call for help now, the chances of getting a person with an accent who\u2019s native language isn\u2019t English are incredibly high. But isn\u2019t this what America is all about? Perhaps not, when the person you are talking to is on the other side of the world, and that this is somehow cheaper and better for the company you are calling that using an American citizen who could be just a few miles away. While Friedman does have some answers, it is clear that America and the world is at a turning point, much like the beginning of the twentieth century when there was the roaring beast of industrialization, and the explosion of the assembly-line system of the Model T Ford. One can certainly expect more from Friedman in the coming years, as new and inconceivable changes happen before our very eyes. For now, The World is Flat is the only guidebook we have, and it does its job to a T. For more book reviews, and author interviews, go to BookBanter . ...more<---C>Thomas L. Friedman</---C><+++>The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century</+++>", "Title": "The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century"},
