{"Comments": "The cover is shit PNR are all the same <+++>Moon Called</+++> is still good. What could be better than a Haiku review? Well,<---M> other than a proper review</---M>, I guess... The thing is, I did REALLY enjoy this book - it has a lot to recommend itself to readers with.<---F> Mercy is a nice character</---F>. She's not a complete badass but she's not a push over either. There's a mystery - though the mystery was interesting it all came up kind of lame in the end. The writing is pretty good and even though the world building is stock-stan The cover is shit PNR are all the same <+++>Moon Called</+++> is still good. What could be better than a Haiku review? Well, other than a proper review, I guess... The thing is, I did REALLY enjoy this book - it has a lot to recommend itself to readers with. Mercy is a nice character. She's not a complete badass but she's not a push over either. There's a mystery - though the mystery was interesting it all came up kind of lame in the end. The writing is pretty good and even though the world building is stock-standard, it was a fun read. I guess the reason there isn't much to say is that these stories all tend to blend in together now. Mercy, Merit, Mac, Cat, Elena, Dru, Rose, Sunshine, Kate... Hell, I had to look up half the names because I'd forgotten them! It kind of makes me sad because, really, none of the above heroines really stick out from each other. They're all badass when they need to be, stubborn, strong, intelligent. There's nothing really individual about them. They all have some sort of super powers and attract the attention of some very nice literary eye candy. I'm kind of waiting for a PNR character to stick out a bit. Why is it that the men in this genre as so much more interesting than the women? Clayton's a crazy, antisocial werewolf - I'd never have to look up his name. Barrons is mysterious and totally three different kinds of awesome! Curran is violent and overbearing but has that whole bad-tempered, territorial softie going for him while Ethan, with his shrivelled, black heart is fascinating because you slowly watch his humanity return. Then there's Bones who is probably the most unique out of them all. Yet the men are all kind of the same too. They're all violent. At least it's an undercurrent of violence that hums beneath the surface. They're all painfully dominant, macho and likely to step all over the heroine if she doesn't use her attitude to make them back off. They all come to grudgingly respect their respective partners and are really passionate and demonstrative of their emotions. The most annoying trend of these books is that, in all likelihood, I will need to wait until book 4 before any horizontal, nekkid tangoing occurs! So whilst I will, no doubt, read the rest of this series and love every minute of it, I can\u2019t help but bemoan the fact that it, so far, provides nothing new or interesting in a genre which proves that you literally can Write-By-Numbers. You will 'like' this review I so know that you do Hit the button, bitch! If you don't, I'll send my pet T-Rex after you! ...more It pains me to say this (<---B>and I may lose my \"guy\" cred</---B>), but I'm a big fan of the urban-fantasy sub-genre. While I tend to lean more towards male protagonists (i.e. Butcher's Dresdan Files and Green's Nightside series), I still love me a good, tough female protagonist. That being said, I was hesitant to pick this one up because of the abysmal Harlequin like cover. In my opinion, many of the current crop of urban-fantasy covers look like they belong in the romance section. Why do I even know w It pains me to say this (and I may lose my \"guy\" cred), but I'm a big fan of the urban-fantasy sub-genre. While I tend to lean more towards male protagonists (i.e. Butcher's Dresdan Files and Green's Nightside series), I still love me a good, tough female protagonist. That being said, I was hesitant to pick this one up because of the abysmal Harlequin like cover. In my opinion, many of the current crop of urban-fantasy covers look like they belong in the romance section. Why do I even know what Harlequin is? Anyway, that being said, I'm glad I picked this one up. I thought the main character of Moon Called , Mercedes Thompson, is one of the more refreshing female characters I have come across in a long time. Her banter with the other werewolves is priceless, and writing good dialogue has always been <---A>Patricia Briggs</---A> strong point. This is the story of werewolves, vampires and fae, and the struggle they find living in a modern world that has no place for them. This is the story of a young coyote named Mercy who lives among a male dominated werewolf pack, which views all women as being weak. Basically, this is all about struggle, loyalty, honor, friendship, love and fixing cars. Moon Called is an inventive and fun read in a genre that is saturated with sameness. Much better than any current Anita Blake catastrophe, I happily recommend this one. ...more What a great addition to the urban fantasy genre. Mercy is a likeable and engaging protagonist. She doesn't come off as invincible and inhuman in her buttkicking abilities, yet at the same time, she is comfortable in her own skin and can hold her own. The universe is interesting, much like the world we live in, save the addition of preternatural creatues such as werewolves, vampires, fae, and coyote shifters like Mercy, which seem quite rare. I enjoyed the description of the pack dynamics and Merc What a great addition to the urban fantasy genre. Mercy is a likeable and engaging protagonist. She doesn't come off as invincible and inhuman in her buttkicking abilities, yet at the same time, she is comfortable in her own skin and can hold her own. The universe is interesting, much like the world we live in, save the addition of preternatural creatues such as werewolves, vampires, fae, and coyote shifters like Mercy, which seem quite rare. I enjoyed the description of the pack dynamics and Mercy doesn't quite fit into the werewolf packs, yet at the same time is an integral part of them. She has an interesting relationship with the Marrok, Bran, who is the acknowleged leader of all the werewolves in North America, and somewhat like a father figure to Mercy, Samuel, the firstborn of Bran, who Mercy almost married/mated to, and Adam, the alpha of the pack of werewolves where Mercy lives, in the Tri-Cities area. Out of the three, Adam is my favorite. He was very attractive to me in his personality and how he interacted with Mercy. I can't get enough of him. Samuel also had some seductive traits to me. He is strong but gentle at the same time. He clearly has feelings for Mercy that are unresolved. There are other secondary characters that truly caught my interest and that I want to read more about. Mercy has an interesting relationship with both Adam and Sam, and that is sure to play a major role in later installments. I much say Mercy is surrounded by beautiful, powerful, intriguing men (of various origins). I like the way Briggs' made Mercy stand out. She saved Adam's life more than once, but she is also very aware of her limitations. Mercy's an auto mechanic and runs her own shop, which is how she gets entangled in the situation that arises in this book. It's great to see a heroine who has such dimensions to her. The magic elements were arresting, particularly as this book showed the magic of the werewolf and the pack, how their strength draws from the alpha and gives back to him. It was really enjoyable to read about. As a werewolf lover, this did my heart good. There are also some vampire elements in this book for those who are of the fang persuasion. And yes, for the faery lovers, there's even a little of that sprinkled in this book. Although this was not a long book, it was a veritable hearty meal for urban fantasy lovers. All in all, a great start to a series that I definitely want to continue reading. ...more After all the reviews I had read about this book, I though this series would be over the top. Everybody was giving 5 stars to this book,and for that very same reason I had really high expectations for it. Maybe that was the problem... It wasn't a bad read, just a VERY slow one. The first half of the book was REALLY boring and slow-paced, it only described the heroine and her life. Around page 100 comes this hot-sexy-alpha wolf who makes you think that the book is finally going to turn out more in After all the reviews I had read about this book, I though this series would be over the top. Everybody was giving 5 stars to this book,and for that very same reason I had really high expectations for it. Maybe that was the problem... It wasn't a bad read, just a VERY slow one. The first half of the book was REALLY boring and slow-paced, it only described the heroine and her life. Around page 100 comes this hot-sexy-alpha wolf who makes you think that the book is finally going to turn out more interesting; but then things get messed up when her previous lover appears.I was waiting for something to happen between Mercy and one of the two wolves, but it never did. The whole book was about problems with the Alpha's pack. The book has some very good action, but if you are expecting some romance don't even try this one. The only thing that happens between Mercy and one of this wolves is a kiss on the last page. That's it. Seriously. There's cero chemistry between the characters, cero awkward moments, nothing. I kept reading because I thought that this would change, but it never did. For most people the first book of a series always seems to be the worst because of all the world building information we get introduced to. Maybe it's just me, but after the second book, the feeling goes away and I get to enjoy a lot more the series. So I'll give the series another chance. Don't get me wrong, it was a good book, I enjoyed reading it, it's just that I got bored most of the time. And Mercy really needs to get her love-life going on a bit faster and entertaining. Maybe I couldn't enjoyed this book as much as I wanted to because I read it after series like psy changeling, the Black dagger Brotherhood, the night huntress and the immortals after dark. Any of those were definitely much better than this one. ...more \u25ba BR with my MacHalo Freaks starting Nov 15, 2015. Note to self: you should review books right after reading them. When you don't you always end up lowering your original rating (view spoiler) [Oh well (hide spoiler) ] . I should be bummed about this . I really should. And I should be wondering why most people in the universe LOVE this book. Well, most people except my dear daughter Liz , that is. But she takes after her amazing father (aka me), meaning she has pretty spectacular book taste \u2190 this is \u25ba BR with my MacHalo Freaks starting Nov 15, 2015. Note to self: you should review books right after reading them. When you don't you always end up lowering your original rating (view spoiler) [Oh well (hide spoiler) ] . I should be bummed about this . I really should. And I should be wondering why most people in the universe LOVE this book. Well, most people except my dear daughter Liz , that is. But she takes after her amazing father (aka me), meaning she has pretty spectacular book taste \u2190 this is not making any sense? It's okay, it shouldn't. And yes, I am perfectly sane, thank you very much . Anyway, I'm not bummed over this and I couldn't care less that I'm one of two people who didn't like this book. Why? Because my not liking it means I can take another series off my TBR shelf!!!!! Victory!!!!! Okay, so I didn't like the book . It doesn't mean it's total crap though. It's not badly written. It's not a case of STOOPID. It's just an unimpressive, big ol' MEH. And I'm afraid meh has come to mean deadly in my world. Deadly boring and deadly lacking inspiration . So much so that I don't have much to say about it. So we'll just stick to a short list of pros and cons, shall we? \u2460 Mercy Thompson is a coyote No, she's not a coyote ALL the time, you silly. She's a walker . Yes, the Jane Yellowrock type of walker. Only that Mercy kind of sucks since she can only turn into one animal instead of a whole zoo like our dear girl Jane. But hey, I still like Mercy more than I do Jane-the-tea-snob-and-walking-contradiction. Anyway, the whole coyote thing is pretty cool and a lot more refreshing than your basic were-stuff. That's good. Yes. It really is. Absolutely \u2190 this is me trying to think of anything else I like about Mercy. But failing miserably. \u2461 Mercy Thompson is a car mechanic Hey! The chin rubbing scheme worked! I just remembered something else I liked about Mercy! Yay me! So yes, I do like the fact that she's a car mechanic. That's surprisingly refreshing fact #2 for you. I don't understand why Briggs felt the need to mention she had a history degree, though. Is that supposed to make her appear more intelligent? Because car mechanics without a degree are supposed to be stupid? Huh . It doesn't add much to her character so I don't really understand what purpose it serves . Much like the \"I'm religious, I go to church every Sunday, blah blah blah\" side of her persona. It doesn't make much sense and doesn't really fit her character either. I don't know, the whole thing just feels weird and I don't understand where it's coming from (her foster parents? Her Pack upbringing? Huh again). It simply doesn't add up in my little head . Hey, wait a minute. This is supposed to be the cons section, right? Right. That's what I thought. Be positive Sarah, be positive. You can do this. There must be tons of other pros here. \u2462 Trying to think of something\u2026 Trying to think of something\u2026 Oops, sorry. Definitely not working. Moving on. \u2460 The boredom fest The premise is interesting enough but the book is a big, huge YAWN . Your basic, unoriginal UF story (unoriginal, boring werewolves! Unoriginal, boring vampires! Unoriginal, boring fae! Yay! \u2622 sarcasm alert \u2622 (view spoiler) [\u2190 pointing this out just in case (hide spoiler) ] ) + WAY too many detailed descriptions of EVERYTHING + uninteresting digressions galore + slow-paced plot = \u2461 The most resistible, lackluster, unexciting, uninspired male characters ever Not a single harem candidate here. Not. A. One . Quite an achievement when you think that, apart from Mercy and a 15 year old kid, it's an all-male cast . Well done, Ms Briggs! I'd say that 95% of your male characters are boring as hell . Okay, I guess Zee is alright but I can't say he's that fascinating either. Stefan and his Mystery Machine might have potential but you don't get to see much of him here (and no, I won't bother with the rest of the series just to find out how hot he supposedly is). Then we have Samuel , who is not only boring but also a complete douchebag . He thinks he knows better than anyone else, too! Because, you know, he's a DOCTOR. Wow. I'm so impressed right now \u2622 sarcasm alert \u2622 (view spoiler) [ \u2190 pointing this out just in case (hide spoiler) ] Anyone else not worth mentioning? You bet! Bran , the most boring Alpha ever and his buddy Adam , most boring Alpha ever #2. I swear these two must be the less imposing, awe-inspiring, frightening, fearsome Alphas in the history of Alphas. Gentlemen, may I suggest a 6-month internship at the Keep with His Furriness ? I'm pretty sure it would work wonders for you and your less than intimidating personas. Have faith! Believe! You can do this! You can be scary baddasses, too! Maybe. In another life. Or something. \u2192 Okay, so you're wolves and not lions. Could you please stop being so ridiculously detailed-oriented for a minute? Besides, you could definitely use a little RAWR practice. Trust me on that one. \u2462 The Love Triangle of Death What's worse than a Love Triangle of Death? A Love Triangle of Death with two male characters that have less personality than barnacles . Yet another outstanding achievement on Ms Brigg's part. You have to admit it really takes a lot of talent to make a love triangle yawning material. Love triangles in books tend to bring out the homicidal maniac in me and I feel the sudden urge to stab a few things whenever I come across one. But here? The love triangle is as unexciting and dull as the rest of the book . I do not give a damn about the love interests. I do not give a damn who Mercy ends up with. Actually , I'd be more excited if she ended up dating Medea the cat . No, I am not kidding here. I mean, the cat is named Medea! Isn't that awesome in itself?! Medea rocks, people! I'm pretty sure it's Brigg's only inspired idea here. More inspired than her choosing Mercy's freaking neighbour , Adam, as a love interest. Especially since the guy acts like he's her father most of the time. But even less inspired is the idea of ridiculous Samuel wanting to have Mercy for her BABIES. GAH. GAH. GAH. \u2190 this might remind the most ancient GR users of this . Now try to get it out of your head. You're welcome. At this point in the story I seriously considered putting a bullet through my little head. Then I got distracted because one of my eyeballs popped out of its socket after eyerolling too much. Sigh. Reading can be such a painful physical experience sometimes. \u2463 The emotional wasteland Since first writing this review, I've been trying to understand why this book didn't work for me . Sure, I thought it was boring, didn't like the male characters and blah blah blah. But there was something else I couldn't put my finger on. And then last night, TADA, I saw the light! Sudden flash of inspiration and all that! I think it all comes down to the absolute flatness of it all . The characters are about as emotional as rocks. I'm pretty sure zombies have more life in them than the comatose bunch on display here . No matter what happened, I never felt anything and couldn't bring myself to care: Mercy is supposed to have conflicted feelings over Samuel? Okay, I believe you. Mercy was supposedly scared to death during the scene with the vampire mistress? If you say so. She is supposed to feel something (whatever it might me) for Adam? Sure, right, of course. No emotion, no passion , no warmth, no sympathy, no intensity, no pleasure, no pain, no excitement, NOTHING. This book is flatline paradise . \u25ba\u25ba Okay, it's recap time here : we have one pro, another pro that is a con in disguise, and 4 cons. Sounds like a total winner to me. Bye bye, Mercy Thompson, it was nice not reading the rest of your adventures . \u270e Book 2 : Blood Bound \u2605\u2605 \u2190 I didn't want to DNF read it! They forced me! [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Seems I'm on an Urban Fantasy kick right now! I've had this book on my shelf forever because a few people recommended it, but every time I picked it up to read, I saw the cover art of Mercy with her bare mid-drift and cleavage and though \"ugh\" another one of those heroines that are bad-ass and probably stubborn with a chip on her shoulder, etc... (I love strong female protagonists, but some are really annoying when they refuse all help). But I was looking at the book for an article I was writing Seems I'm on an Urban Fantasy kick right now! I've had this book on my shelf forever because a few people recommended it, but every time I picked it up to read, I saw the cover art of Mercy with her bare mid-drift and cleavage and though \"ugh\" another one of those heroines that are bad-ass and probably stubborn with a chip on her shoulder, etc... (I love strong female protagonists, but some are really annoying when they refuse all help). But I was looking at the book for an article I was writing about fantasy novels and read a short except on the first page and was intrigued. I'm so glad I gave this book a chance. I was hooked almost right away - I loved that she's a mechanic and I also appreciated the realistic details! When she shoots a gun - it's LOUD and she loses her hearing for a while - that's what happens when you don't wear ear protection. She gets hurt - like a broken arm when she's fighting werewolves - thank you! My only reason for not giving that last star is due to the reason for everything that happened. (view spoiler) [I thought Gerry wanting to stop Bran to keep the werewolves from going public was a excellent reason for everything that happened and for all the people who died, but when it turned out he just wanted his father to accept his wolf - that was a disappointment. Yes, it's a motive, but the lengths Gerry went to, just didn't match - I'm sure there were other ways to get his father to fight. (hide spoiler) ] I'm looking forward to reading more in this series! ...more After attempting to read \"Moon Called\" at least 5 times I am finally giving up. There is absolutely no chance I will ever read the sequels, so why bother? I am a fan of urban fantasy and this novel is very highly rated by readers, so it is surprising that I disliked it so much. My expectations for urban fantasy are not huge: well developed lore, engaging paranormal mystery and one or two sexy supernatural hunks to swoon over. I don't care how formulaic it is, as long as it is written well. \"Moon After attempting to read \"Moon Called\" at least 5 times I am finally giving up. There is absolutely no chance I will ever read the sequels, so why bother? I am a fan of urban fantasy and this novel is very highly rated by readers, so it is surprising that I disliked it so much. My expectations for urban fantasy are not huge: well developed lore, engaging paranormal mystery and one or two sexy supernatural hunks to swoon over. I don't care how formulaic it is, as long as it is written well. \"Moon Called\" managed to disappoint me on all fronts. I found Mercy's world uninteresting, messy in its blend of weres, vamps, fae, and witchcraft, its introduction awkward, the entire concept of weres being immortal and people becoming young again after turning was contrived, and constant dominant-submissive explanations were extremely boring. The mystery took way too much time to get to. As for hunks, I was pretty much over the story when I found out one of two Mercy's love interests was almost 200 years older than her and was trying to marry her when she was 16 to get him some werepups. Mercy, for all her supposed toughness, cried every two pages and acted rather immaturely. And lastly, there was absolutely no romance/smut in this book and won't be, from what I've heard, until book 4 (but there will be a (view spoiler) [rape scene (hide spoiler) ] in book 3). Who cares to read this kind of urban fantasy? I know I don't. ...more mercy, mercy. crushingly dull exposition of everything you already knew about werewolves and et cetera, served over the course of about two hundred and fifty pages of soul-withering conversation, with the requisite love triangle and weapon-listing and speyshul-snowflake-ing and seventy quintillion characters and a plot like a doily and fuck my life if i weren't so desperate to get out of my own head i would have set this on fire and then myself when the token gay human was not physically capable mercy, mercy. crushingly dull exposition of everything you already knew about werewolves and et cetera, served over the course of about two hundred and fifty pages of soul-withering conversation, with the requisite love triangle and weapon-listing and speyshul-snowflake-ing and seventy quintillion characters and a plot like a doily and fuck my life if i weren't so desperate to get out of my own head i would have set this on fire and then myself when the token gay human was not physically capable of watching a woman pull on a tee without at once being irrevocably compelled to fix her hair ...more I like you Mercy Thompson. I like you because you\u2019re tough but not invincible. I like you because you\u2019re brave but not stupid. I like you because you are a caring person but nobody\u2019s fool. I like you because you make mistakes but you don\u2019t place the blame elsewhere. I like you because you\u2019re smart but not a show-off. I like you because you stand on your own among much more powerful creatures than you but you know your limits. I like you because you don\u2019t give a damn about what others think of you but t I like you Mercy Thompson. I like you because you\u2019re tough but not invincible. I like you because you\u2019re brave but not stupid. I like you because you are a caring person but nobody\u2019s fool. I like you because you make mistakes but you don\u2019t place the blame elsewhere. I like you because you\u2019re smart but not a show-off. I like you because you stand on your own among much more powerful creatures than you but you know your limits. I like you because you don\u2019t give a damn about what others think of you but those that you care for. I like you Mercy Thompson, just the way you are. ...more It's now been a decade since Moon Called was published, and it remains a solid, reliable series in the urban fantasy genre. My first time reading it, I pretty much loved it. It has steady action, an intriguing female lead and decent world-building. It also has a gentle romantic build, a relief in a genre that is frequently focused paranormal sexy-times. If it is a little predictable, it's with the assurance that the experience will be satisfying and familiar, the literary equivalent of homemade It's now been a decade since Moon Called was published, and it remains a solid, reliable series in the urban fantasy genre. My first time reading it, I pretty much loved it. It has steady action, an intriguing female lead and decent world-building. It also has a gentle romantic build, a relief in a genre that is frequently focused paranormal sexy-times. If it is a little predictable, it's with the assurance that the experience will be satisfying and familiar, the literary equivalent of homemade bread. Mercy is a half Native-American who is able to shapeshift into coyote form. She is a mechanic who owns her own business, thanks to the assistance of Zee, a metalsmith gremlin Fae who recently retired when the lesser Fae were forced to 'come out.' Although werewolves still live a secret existence, Mercy knows there is a large pack in the area, ever since Adam, pack leader, built a house on the property next to her trailer. When a newly-made werewolf shows up on Mercy's doorstep, she takes steps to protect him and facilitate his entry into the local pack. Unfortunately, disaster soon strikes with Adam and the pack being attacked, and Mercy finds herself drawn into protecting Adam. Helping him will mean dealing with emotional ties left hanging from her teenage years. World-building is decent, as it attempts to integrate the creatures and powers of urban fantasy into a more mundane world. The idea of reservations for fae is intriguing, and will come to play later in the series. Vampires are given a standard horror-tinged persona, with the exception of Stephen, a vampire with an affection for Mercy. Language sophistication is average to above; Mercy has a degree in history and a couple years of German language, so she's able to bring insight and perspective to the mythos around her. As a first book and introduction to the world-premise, there's a lot of set-up. I felt most of it did not seem overly intrusive; in the beginning, Mercy distracts the young wolf with information about the pack, and then further information is given in context of Mercy's own history. There is a lot of hints for future development with both Fae and vampires. There's a lot here that's solid, even if it has become somewhat stereotypical for the genre. While Mercy could be characterized as a 'Speshul Snowflake,' I think Briggs takes definite steps to mitigate the characterization through acknowledging the physical power difference of the coyote and her generally reduced physical abilities compared to werewolves. It's also clear that to know Mercy is not necessarily to love her (in contrast to Meg in The Others series by Bishop). While the female antagonism in the story could be a detraction--the story fails the Bechdel test--it's origin in Mercy's potential fertility has the potential for interesting metaphors about female empowerment. As expected for the genre, Mercy finds herself the focus of interest by two different and powerful werewolves. To her credit, she's pretty consistent in reminding them she actually belongs to no one but herself. It isn't an edgy, boundary-pushing series, nor is it filled with one-liners or ass-kicking. It's a quieter, solid little story; the literary equivalent of warm homemade bread with butter. It holds up to re-reading, and as a final ring of endorsement, was worth hardcover inclusion in my library. Re-read May 2016 ...more I've tried to read this two times now. I give up. I just don't like it. I'm sure it's just me. Tons of people love this series. It's one of the most famous and popular UFs out there. I just can't get into it. DNF 41%. I don't like how the female werewolves and skinwalkers are treated. It's like the males are still in the 1800s. No. Her \"adoptive\" pack kicked her out at 16 because the females were jealous and one of the alphas (who was 60 or 70 in werewolf years) wanted to mate her so she could hav I've tried to read this two times now. I give up. I just don't like it. I'm sure it's just me. Tons of people love this series. It's one of the most famous and popular UFs out there. I just can't get into it. DNF 41%. I don't like how the female werewolves and skinwalkers are treated. It's like the males are still in the 1800s. No. Her \"adoptive\" pack kicked her out at 16 because the females were jealous and one of the alphas (who was 60 or 70 in werewolf years) wanted to mate her so she could have his babies. No. And then when Mercy goes back to get her neighbor help (he's an Alpha too), they still pretty much treat her like shit and she doesn't do much about it, makes excuses for them pretty much. All the guys in this are so boring when they aren't being assholes. I think there are a couple romantic interests being set up, but I can't muster up any feelings about it. There's a lot of filler about stuff like finding old magazines at the pack's hotel from the 70s or something and eating subs and angst between Samuel and Adam who both obviously like Mercy. There is some mystery going on with a group turning humans into werewolves and drugging and testing them and keeping them in cages? I guess this one is not for me. Mercy is also kind of meh. I guess not every UF heroine has to be a badass, but she just kind of goes along with things. I mean, she's not a doormat, but there's something missing. Maybe she grows as the books go on, but I don't think I will be continuing this series. At least I tried. Twice. ...more Buddy Read (or re-read, in my case) with Kat , Krishna , Sara , and Sesana . Disclaimer: I may have bullied them into reading this... All of these guys gave it a 'gentle' 3 stars. Even Sesana (view spoiler) [,who probably would have rated it lower, had I not threatened to go after her beloved Les Mis\u00e9rables , (hide spoiler) ] was kind. Thank you! So, with none of my pals really loving this one, coupled with the fact that I read it 5 years ago, I was fully prepared to change my rating from the original 4 s Buddy Read (or re-read, in my case) with Kat , Krishna , Sara , and Sesana . Disclaimer: I may have bullied them into reading this... All of these guys gave it a 'gentle' 3 stars. Even Sesana (view spoiler) [,who probably would have rated it lower, had I not threatened to go after her beloved Les Mis\u00e9rables , (hide spoiler) ] was kind. Thank you! So, with none of my pals really loving this one, coupled with the fact that I read it 5 years ago, I was fully prepared to change my rating from the original 4 stars. I did tend to rate things a bit on the high side, back in the day... But I still loved it! Maybe part of the reason is nostalgia? Maybe it's because I've continued with the series over the years, and the characters have changed and grown, so it's nice to take another peek back at where it all started? Or maybe it's just my kind of book, and I still love it? *shrugs* Who knows? I had totally forgotten everything that happened in this story, though. Thanks to my poor memory, it was like I was reading a brand new book! Bonus! Here's the 2 main things I like about Mercy: 1. She's not all-powerful. In fact, most of the time, she's the weakest person in the room. So going up against werewolves, vampires, or fae isn't something that she is expected to do. The strong must protect the weak...and all that. She does it because she cares about people, and it's the right thing to do. Which makes her really brave, in my book. 2. She knows when to back down from a fight. I can't tell you how annoyed I get with some of the heroes or heroines in books. The ones who don't have the good sense God gave them to know when to shut up, stand down, and eat a little humble pie. Must. Prove. I'm. A. Badass! It's a lot harder to back down when you're angry, than it is to mouth off. However, sometimes it's the better part of wisdom. As long as a character is backing down to avoid a bloodbath, it makes me like them a great deal more than the idiots whose pride won't let them take an insult. Whatever the reason, Mercy's my kind of gal. I'm sticking with the original 4 stars! The only real problem I have with this one is the cover. In an embarrassing turn of events, my son picked it up to see what I was reading. And then proceeded to laugh at the cheesy PNR ish cover. Kid: Let me guess. She hates her parents? Me: Why would you think that? Kid: She's coated in tattoos. Probably did it to piss her parents off. Me:Um? *looks down a tiny tattoo on ankle* Kid: And she's Native American, obviously, because of the feather earring. Me: Uh-huh. Kid: No offence, Mom, but she looks really slutty. Me: Ok...well, I'm not really sure what they're trying to say with that cover. Kid: I do. *snorts* Perverts, come read me! Me: *blushes...snatches book away* Don't you have homework to do, or something?! ...more \"MS. THOMPSON, it said in heavy block letters, PLEASE KEEP YOUR FELINE OFF MY PROPERTY. IF I SEE IT AGAIN, I WILL EAT IT.\" Lately I have been reading just pretty much young adult books but I thought I give adult urban fantasy a go and I\u2019m so glad I did. Moon Called was action packed, witty, suspenseful and addictive. When I finished it I wanted to run straight down to the bookstore and get the next one but unfortunately I had spent my weekly book budget. The plot is fast moving although there is \"MS. THOMPSON, it said in heavy block letters, PLEASE KEEP YOUR FELINE OFF MY PROPERTY. IF I SEE IT AGAIN, I WILL EAT IT.\" Lately I have been reading just pretty much young adult books but I thought I give adult urban fantasy a go and I\u2019m so glad I did. Moon Called was action packed, witty, suspenseful and addictive. When I finished it I wanted to run straight down to the bookstore and get the next one but unfortunately I had spent my weekly book budget. The plot is fast moving although there is a lot of world building but that is to be expected in the first instalment of a series. I liked the world Briggs has created with werewolves, skin walkers, fae, vampires and magic. I loved Mercy instantly. She is loyal, stubborn, smart, tough and has a lot of sass. Kind of the gal I wish I was. There is a bit of a love triangle happening even if there isn\u2019t a lot of romance in this book. Adam is delicious, he is the alpha male of the pack, need I say more. While Samuel is Mercy first love and another dominant werewolf. I\u2019m still not sure if I can trust him with Mercy's heart. As you can imagine two stubborn werewolves with there eye on the same mate makes for some funny scenes. They other secondary characters are a interesting and entertaining bunch with Zee, Stefan, Warren, Kyle Jesse and Bran. Overall, I loved every minute of it and I need the rest of the series NOW! ...more Full review, first posted at www.fantasyliterature.com: Mercy Thompson is an anomaly: a female automobile mechanic who owns her own shop, half Native American, and \u2015 in a world with werewolves, vampires, fae and other supernatural beings \u2015 she is one of a very few \u201cwalkers,\u201d or skinwalkers, able to easily shapeshift into a coyote at will, without regard to phases of the moon. When Mercy surprised her human mother by turning into a coyote pup when she was three months old, her mother, not knowing Full review, first posted at www.fantasyliterature.com: Mercy Thompson is an anomaly: a female automobile mechanic who owns her own shop, half Native American, and \u2015 in a world with werewolves, vampires, fae and other supernatural beings \u2015 she is one of a very few \u201cwalkers,\u201d or skinwalkers, able to easily shapeshift into a coyote at will, without regard to phases of the moon. When Mercy surprised her human mother by turning into a coyote pup when she was three months old, her mother, not knowing what else to do, turned her over to be raised by a werewolf pack. Mercy left the pack as a teenager, but still is watched over by the werewolves, particularly <---C>Adam Hauptman</---C>, the alpha werewolf who shares her back fence line and with whom she has a sometimes uneasy alliance. Their relationship is a confusing mix of attraction and, on Mercy\u2019s side, bravado tinged with fear that the alpha werewolf will override her free will and autonomy. When a starving teenage boy shows up at Mercy\u2019s garage asking for food and work, her acute sense of smell tells her that he\u2019s a werewolf. She realizes that the boy, who calls himself Mac, understands nothing about werewolf society and rules and needs Adam\u2019s help to survive and thrive. The problem of Mac becomes more acute when two strange men show up and try to recapture Mac to take him back to their enclave. Mercy overhears them arguing about cages and drugs, and she determinedly intervenes to rescue Mac from the threatening strangers, but the situation turns out to be far more complicated than she could have imagined. Mercy soon needs to return to her original werewolf pack for help \u2015 even though it means that she will need to face Samuel, the werewolf that she loved and left as a sixteen year old. The plot of this first book in the Mercy Thompson series revolves around a mystery: who is creating new werewolves in such an uncontrolled and dangerous manner, and why? I found this mystery to be the weakest element in the book, with a resolution that didn\u2019t entirely hold water. Also unfortunately, the overused love triangle trope is part of the plot of Moon Called , but at least it\u2019s got a decent rationale and isn\u2019t oversold. I appreciated that this book is not sexually explicit, which is a refreshing change of pace in the urban fantasy genre. It\u2019s been interesting taking on Patricia Briggs\u2019 Mercy Thompson series after reading several books in Ilona Andrews\u2019 Kate Daniels series. Although both series feature entertaining, well-developed urban fantasy worlds and with strong women protagonists, Mercy is more vulnerable and unsure of herself than Kate Daniels, as John also notes with approval in his review. Kate is great fun with her enormous kickass abilities, but Mercy is ultimately the more believable character. Her intelligent, no-nonsense narration is one of the strengths of Moon Called . I admire the tremendous scope of imagination the Ilona Andrews team has shown in creating Kate\u2019s world, but I also appreciate the more realistic (if one can say that of an urban fantasy), down-to-earth world of Mercy Thompson. 3.5 stars. Initial post/mini review: For some reason I read the second book in this Mercy Thompson series first (oh, yeah, this book was checked out at the library at the time, and I really wanted to try out this urban fantasy series). I liked it pretty well, but I have to say everything just made so much more sense once I finally got around to checking out this book! In fact, I actually checked out the second book again , as well as the third book, just so I could put all of the pieces together. So, don't do like I did. Start here, at the beginning. But keep going even if you're not terribly impressed with this first book; they get better as they go along. If you like urban fantasy, with werewolves and vampires and suchlike (this one also throws in fae and witches), this is a worthwhile one. We've already got a love triangle starting here that lasts at least through the second book, so minus some points for that, but at least it's got some decent reasoning behind it and isn't oversold. ...more This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life . I love it when I can read a book for a second time and enjoy even more than the first time. There are a few book worlds that I hate to leave and Mercy's world is one of them. When I finished reading Fire Touched recently, I wanted more Mercy so I decided it was time to listen to some of the audiobooks from this series that have been sitting in my audible account for a couple of years. I was surprised by how much more I liked it this time arou This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life . I love it when I can read a book for a second time and enjoy even more than the first time. There are a few book worlds that I hate to leave and Mercy's world is one of them. When I finished reading Fire Touched recently, I wanted more Mercy so I decided it was time to listen to some of the audiobooks from this series that have been sitting in my audible account for a couple of years. I was surprised by how much more I liked it this time around. This is the first book in the Mercy Thompson series and it does a really good job of introducing a large number of the key players in the series. This book is one of the really great first books in an urban fiction series. All of the world building works nicely into the plot. The book opens with a lot of excitement and you just kind of learn how things work as the plot moves forward. I loved going back to spend time with an earlier Mercy. She is such a wonderful character. She is extremely brave in this story despite being fully aware of her limitations. She is smart and able to make good decisions under pressure. She really shows a protective side in this story with both Mac and Jesse which I really liked. It was really fun spending time with Adam, Samuel, Bran, Zee, Stephen, Jesse, Warren, and the rest of gang in this book. The mystery in this book was solid. When a young werewolf ends up in Mercy's garage, she quickly learns that some strange things are happening. Adam is quickly pulled into the mystery and is actually quite vulnerable during much of this book. Mercy and the werewolves must find out what is going on and what their motives are in order to keep everyone safe. I really liked seeing how many things from later in the series were foreshadowed in this book. There were so many things that I didn't pick up on during my first reading. It took me a few minutes to adjust to the narration of this audiobook. Don't get me wrong, I thought the narration was great in the end but Mercy is a character that I have been reading about for years so I had a preconceived notion about what her voice should sound like. The narrator didn't match the voice in my head at the beginning of the story but by the end her voice was Mercy's. I think that the narrator did a fabulous job with all of the different character voices. I really enjoyed how much emotion came across in her reading of the story. I definitely plan to listen to more audiobooks featuring Lorelei King's narration. I would highly recommend this book and series to fans of urban fiction. The Mercy Thompson series along with the Alpha & Omega series which is set in the same world are among my favorites. This is a series that is best read in order so this book is a great starting point. I am looking forward to re-reading the second book in the series very soon. Initial Thoughts I absolutely loved this book! Even better the second time around. ...more January 2017 re-read: Mercy is one of my favorite characters to read about. This world is fascinating, and the characters (and their interactions) are fantastic. 15 January 2016: $1.99 on Kindle December 2015 re-read: Buddy read with Sarah This series is so comfortable. Like coming home. I love the world. I love the wolves - that they aren't \"nice\" all the time, they are sometimes at the whim of the animal that shares their body. But most of all, I love Mercy. She's smart, and practical. She's not January 2017 re-read: Mercy is one of my favorite characters to read about. This world is fascinating, and the characters (and their interactions) are fantastic. 15 January 2016: $1.99 on Kindle December 2015 re-read: Buddy read with Sarah This series is so comfortable. Like coming home. I love the world. I love the wolves - that they aren't \"nice\" all the time, they are sometimes at the whim of the animal that shares their body. But most of all, I love Mercy. She's smart, and practical. She's not uber-powerful (though she's definitely got some special stuff going on). There's a love-triangle, but it's well done, and Mercy doesn't string the guys along, and she still takes the time to make sure the decision is the one that she wants to make (also, I think it's fairly obvious from early in this book which way the wind's blowing on the love-triangle issue). The villain's plan (which I mention in my review below) is still really, really intricate - a little too intricate - but I can't say that it's not brilliant at the same time. One of my favorite parts of this series is that Mercy isn't as strong as the wolves, but she still holds her own, and often it's HER, her brain, her reasoning, her ability (to think without the impulses that rule the werewolves) that ends up being the key to winning. I think that's awesome. (Vague spoiler for rest of series: (view spoiler) [It does become a bit of a place of contention for me later in the series - when the wolves are ALWAYS knocked out of the fight in some way, shape, or form, so that Mercy can be the heroine. Because if the wolves aren't knocked out of the battle, then Mercy wouldn't be necessary to winning in a lot of cases. It's a minor complaint, and one that I deal with because the power (strength) dynamic in this series is handled really well in all other areas. That being said, I prefer my heroines to be as strong (though maybe in different ways) to the heroes (see Kate and Curran), in general. So, it's a minor, minor thing that bothers me more the further I get in this series. Small price to pay, though. (hide spoiler) ] ) My other favorite thing, is the world itself. Though it starts out focused enough, in this book, in the Tri-Cities of Washington (state), the world is huge, and it's explored a lot more in both future Mercy installments, and the Alpha and Omega series (which honestly, you SHOULD read in the combined reading order, I think that offers a lot more enjoyment of both series). Primarily we get to deal with the wolves (almost always), the fae, and the vampires. But sometimes there are other things thrown into the mix, and sometimes there are really freaking powerful beings that come up. It's interesting and varied and there's never a dull moment. Then you throw in the human politics, and prejucides (on all sides) and things really start to get interesting. This series (the combined one of Mercy & Alpha/Omega) is one of my top 5 favorites, along with Kate Daniels, but I hesitate to really compare these two. This series is quieter - because the heroine is different, and some people won't connect with her in the same way - but I promise that it's just as intricate, just as well-written, and just as full of amazing characters in a fully-realized world. 5 May 2014: $4.59 on Kindle ~ still an excellent deal! 3 March 2014: $2.99 on Kindle Review: This is one of my top favorite series. I re-read it at least once a year - often even more than that - and I'm always sucked in, always so incredibly emotionally invested in the characters and what happens to them. I think, one of the best things about this book (and indeed anything I've read by Patricia Briggs) is the balance she maintains. Mercy's not perfect. No one is. Everyone makes some mistakes, everyone deals with them - and it's not always pretty, or easy. I can easily root for Mercy (and all the others) because she feels real to me. She's smart, capable, funny and loyal - but that's not all. She knows her limits; doesn't like it when it makes more sense for someone stronger to take care of something, but lets them do it anyways because it's smarter and she fights for what she believes, even when it makes her quake with fear at the consequences. The Mercy Thompson world is another thing that's important to me. The world building has internal consistency and makes sense in and of itself. That alone is a huge thing in a market glutted with PNR and UF that uses paranormal aspects as window-dressing. I can never read this book without laughing, grinning, and sometimes tearing up. Six (Mercy) books later and I (view spoiler) [still miss a character that dies early in this book (hide spoiler) ] ... I do have a couple of minor niggles with the....incredibly intricate plan that is the mystery, but it's not enough to take away from my enjoyment. I highly recommend this series to anyone and everyone. ...more Buddy read with some friends at Buddies Books and Baubles Mild spoiler incoming If your neighbour secretly had a picture of you in his bedroom, wouldn't you at least think \"What the hell\" for a mere second, no matter the circumstances? Mercy doesn't. \"He turned back to me. \u2018But you have his scent all over your van, and he has a picture of you in his bedroom.\u2019 Samuel gave me a sharp look. \u2018In his bedroom?\u2019 It was news to me, too. But I was more worried about Adam and Jesse than a picture. \u2018All righ Buddy read with some friends at Buddies Books and Baubles Mild spoiler incoming If your neighbour secretly had a picture of you in his bedroom, wouldn't you at least think \"What the hell\" for a mere second, no matter the circumstances? Mercy doesn't. \"He turned back to me. \u2018But you have his scent all over your van, and he has a picture of you in his bedroom.\u2019 Samuel gave me a sharp look. \u2018In his bedroom?\u2019 It was news to me, too. But I was more worried about Adam and Jesse than a picture. \u2018All right,\u2019 I said.\u2018Where are they holding him?\u2019\" BOOM. She briefly acknowledges the fact and then wastes no further thought on this for the rest of the book. Mercy kind of just goes along with (most) things, and while I do not dislike her, I often found her behaviour way too rational in Moon Called for my taste. The book as such was ok, but as a whole it felt pretty unemotional to me and provoked no strong emotions in me whatsoever. Most characters felt dull, and then there was a lot of randomly thrown in and then not further elaborated on stuff. What's with Mercy being a car mechanic but later on in the book Mercy randomly mentions her history degree, which had absolutely no relevance to anything else in this book, in one sentence. Was that supposed to make the reader rate Mercy higher as a character or something? Then there are a bunch of German words that left me puzzled because of their spelling. Take \"Schwarzenwald\", for instance. Should this refer to Schwarzwald as in the German translation for Black Forest or to an imaginary location? And why spell Polizei \"Politzei\"? As for the dull characters, the supposedly hot scary alphas for instance were... cute little kittens. \"\u2018Don\u2019t touch her,\u2019 whispered Adam. There was a shadow of threat in his voice, and he must have heard it, too, because he added, \u2018Please.\u2019\" Meow! There were things I liked, too. The female main character being a car mechanic, for instance. The whole premise as such. Mercy's abilities as a walker, which I really want to know more about. The fact that Mercy could not hear very well for a while after firing a gun added a pinch of realism. Stefan could be an interesting character, but there was not nearly enough of him in the book. And, last not least: Zee's dagger. Badass weapon potential. I will read the next book in the series and see how things develop from there. ...more I should have liked this. I really wanted to like this. After all, it promises so many of the things I love about the Urban Fantasy genre: kick-ass heroine, supernatural creatures, murder mystery and hot other-wordly men. I'm actually not too demanding of the genre, Halfway to the Grave is one example of UF that is very light with little plot development and limited emphasis on the supernatural mystery element... and I really enjoyed it. If the author focuses on just one of the factors I mention I should have liked this. I really wanted to like this. After all, it promises so many of the things I love about the Urban Fantasy genre: kick-ass heroine, supernatural creatures, murder mystery and hot other-wordly men. I'm actually not too demanding of the genre, Halfway to the Grave is one example of UF that is very light with little plot development and limited emphasis on the supernatural mystery element... and I really enjoyed it. If the author focuses on just one of the factors I mentioned above and milks that for all it's worth, sometimes I can forget about the lack of smutty fun and whatever else. In other words, an awesome heroine or just some funny banter can make a novel enjoyable, but this book just never seemed to deliver much of anything that I wanted to read. It was a natural choice being both from the genre that I love and also being very highly rated by other UF lovers. But for me, the whole murder mystery that was supposed to be the basic plot ended up taking a backseat to werewolf politics. Sure, introduce it at the beginning so we know what we're dealing with, but Briggs mentions it constantly throughout... after a few chapters I was thinking \"yeah, I get it, no one says no to the Alpha and women have zero say whatsoever\". It was sooo slow going through all the pack rules and regulations - do we really care? I didn't. Then, of course, Mercy Thompson was our heroine. But I found her rather wishy-washy, one moment she was all bad-ass and \"I take orders from no one\", the next she's in tears or cowering beneath a 'dominant' male werewolf... ugh. Then you find out that Samuel, her first love, is 200 years her senior and wanted to use her in order to have his little werebabies. Briggs could have redeemed him easily if she'd made him sexy and gave the reader the smut that (let's face it) they expect from good urban fantasy books. However, the most excitement we get in the whole novel is a drab kiss and, as I read in Tatiana's review , there is apparently no such sexiness until book 4. Credit where it's due, though, I thought Adam was hot. Anyway, why the hell did Briggs have to make Mercy a 'skinwalker', which is apparently just another word in this sense for a 'werecoyote'? I'd rather she'd have just been a human. It seems ridiculously lame, quite like a lot of the messy array of creatures that the author decided to shove into the novel. Perhaps she wishes to use the witches and fae later in the series, but then she could have just pulled a Charlaine Harris trick and introduced them as they became important to the storyline, rather than producing a long list in the first chapter. I've never had much interest in the 'lesser fae', like goblins, elves and sprites... it brings back too many painful memories of books like The Hobbit . That's a place I never want to return. I really can't see me getting the next book in the series, I so far haven't managed to muster up any interest in the life of Mercy Thompson. It's disappointing. EDIT: pg 129 of my edition: Mercy ponders the historical rumour about Queen Victoria and the laws against homosexual acts, stating that it is said that Queen V refused to believe that women would do such a thing, thereby making the law gender-biased and only specific to men. However, there is no record of this rumour until about 50 years ago when it began to circulate. Before that time it was unheard of, making it extremely unlikely to be anything more than a rumour. The gender specifics of the law is much more likely due to the all-male parliament of the time and the tendency to suppress female sexuality in victorian society - the MPS likely believed that 'perversions' (as homosexuality was once perceived to be) were solely male. ...more Review from first time i read it, 04/25/11 to 04/27/11: Mercy was awesome loved this book... Mercy was really funny Mercy was really fast (but not easy, takes a whole flipping book for a guy to get a kiss) Mercy was pretty smart, for a girl ;) Mercy wasn't completely helpless, she uh might rip your throat out with her teeth and watch you bleed to death (just sayin') Mercy never even mentions her man eating vagina once in this whole book Mercy also didn't shower once in this whole book and even she men Review from first time i read it, 04/25/11 to 04/27/11: Mercy was awesome loved this book... Mercy was really funny Mercy was really fast (but not easy, takes a whole flipping book for a guy to get a kiss) Mercy was pretty smart, for a girl ;) Mercy wasn't completely helpless, she uh might rip your throat out with her teeth and watch you bleed to death (just sayin') Mercy never even mentions her man eating vagina once in this whole book Mercy also didn't shower once in this whole book and even she mentions how fresh she smells... Really hope she starts bathing before Adam (I am team Adam) takes a dip into her south seas Aly this review was for you - \u2014 - Second read 03/10/13 This book still rocked. Loved it just as much the second time. - \u2014 - Third read 01-20-14 to 01-23-14 and I still love this book. Will read it again and again. ...more I was super happy to discover a new PNR series and after reading Patricia Briggs 1st book in her Mercy Thompson series\u2026.I was beyond happy\u2026excited more like it!!!! Mercy Thompson \u2013 a natural born coyote shape shifter, auto mechanic and owner of a garage, sensible, together, strong and independent, lives in the Tri-Cities are of Washington, amidst a world of humans and supernaturals \u2013 vampires, walkers, werewolves, fey, witches\u2026.. The storyline revolves around the murder of a young boy, employed I was super happy to discover a new PNR series and after reading Patricia Briggs 1st book in her Mercy Thompson series\u2026.I was beyond happy\u2026excited more like it!!!! Mercy Thompson \u2013 a natural born coyote shape shifter, auto mechanic and owner of a garage, sensible, together, strong and independent, lives in the Tri-Cities are of Washington, amidst a world of humans and supernaturals \u2013 vampires, walkers, werewolves, fey, witches\u2026.. The storyline revolves around the murder of a young boy, employed by Mercy, who tells her, before he\u2019s killed that he had been turned unwillingly and that this a secret party carrying out experiments on werewolves. When Adam Hauptman her next door neighbor and leader of the local wolf-pack is attacked and his daughter kidnapped, Mercy takes matters into her own hands\u2026despite Adam being a bit of a twit of a neighbor\u2026 Mercy takes him to the Marrok\u2026leader of all wolf-packs in North America, asking for help. Whilst there\u2019s not much of a romance story here, I think that the triangle between Mercy, Samuel and Adam is going to develop in a way I am not sure how. For me, I hope its Adam\u2026Mercy does feel a thing for this sexy and hot werewolf An interesting and believable plot with characters that are appealing and sympathetic and relatable, suspense and mystery, surprises and red herrings that are totally unexpected when revealed. I really like the world building the author has created and she manages to bring something fresh and new ideas into the PNR world. My favorite quote: ...more What do you get when you have a heroine who can change into a coyote in a matter of seconds add in two sexy male werewolves, and a kidnapping plot that will turn heads? You will get this book \u201cMoon Called\u201d by Patricia Briggs which stars Mercy Thompson, your not so average heroine! If I get paid a dime every time I see a heroine become a shape shifter, I would be a millionaire by now! Full of action, mystery and a lust for the supernatural, \u201cMoon Called\u201d is one novel that paranormal and fantasy r What do you get when you have a heroine who can change into a coyote in a matter of seconds add in two sexy male werewolves, and a kidnapping plot that will turn heads? You will get this book \u201cMoon Called\u201d by Patricia Briggs which stars Mercy Thompson, your not so average heroine! If I get paid a dime every time I see a heroine become a shape shifter, I would be a millionaire by now! Full of action, mystery and a lust for the supernatural, \u201cMoon Called\u201d is one novel that paranormal and fantasy romance fans will be reading over and over again in their lifetime! Mercy Thompson seems like an ordinary woman who works at a mechanic shop, but there is only one odd thing about her\u2026she can change into a coyote at will! What is even stranger is the world she lives in as it is inhabited by all kinds of supernatural creatures like vampires, werewolves, witches and more! She is even friends with a vampire named Stefan and knows two guys, Samuel and Adam, who are both werewolves! But Mercy\u2019s normal (abnormal) life will get much stranger and more intense once she realizes that there is a group of supernatural creatures who are devising a dangerous plot that involves the kidnapping of Adam\u2019s daughter Jesse and odd experiments on new werewolves! Do not worry; Mercy Thompson is on the case! The moment you see the cover of this book (Mercy posing in front of the camera while an eerie werewolf gate is behind her) you will definitely know that this novel is a stroke of genius! Patricia Briggs has done an excellent job at writing this awesome novel that is set in a world where vampires, werewolves, witches (you name it!) all live side by side by humans and that was the part of the book that I really enjoyed reading because I love reading about supernatural worlds seeing humans living with supernatural creatures like it is normal, is really interesting to see. The best part of Patricia Briggs\u2019 writing was how all the main characters are supernatural characters and that was made this novel so interesting to read! I loved how the main heroine Mercy Thompson came about as she is shown to be truly courageous and kind hearted towards anyone and what really interested me about Mercy was how she has some mad skills in fighting her enemies when she goes in coyote mode! I also loved the way she always has some kind of smart comment to tell off someone who insults her and that shows how intelligent and strong she really is! Out of all the paranormal/fantasy heroines I have read, Mercy is like the only heroine to have two lovers at the same time or let us just say that she likes two guys, but she just does not know who to choose! Between Adam and Samuel, I loved Adam the best, because he is the alpha male leader of his werewolf pack and he is always looking out for everyone, especially Mercy! Now, don\u2019t get me wrong, I like Samuel too, but I guess what bothered me a bit about Samuel was his troubled history with Mercy which left Mercy to be heart broken, but seeing as I have just started this series, I guess I will have to see how Samuel\u2019s character develops in the series. Patricia Briggs has done a wonderful job at developing a really interesting plot that revolves around the kidnapping of Adam\u2019s daughter Jesse and I will admit that I was kind of expecting a more paranormal romance to develop in this novel. However, I was still impressed with the suspenseful aspect of this story revolving around the kidnapping and it was interesting to see how the characters tried to develop conclusions to get to the bottom of this situation. The only problem I had with this novel is that the plot was a little bit too slow for my tastes as we are constantly hearing what Mercy\u2019s inner thoughts on the situation is and that sort of annoyed me so much because I wanted to get to the action of the story. Overall, \u201cMoon Called\u201d is definitely a brilliant introduction to the fantastic \u201cMercy Thompson\u201d series and any fan of paranormal and fantasy romance will definitely get a kick out reading this awesome novel! Did this novel cause me to go check out the other \u201cMercy Thompson\u201d series? You bet it does and I will clean out every library I go to find this awesome series! Review is also on: Rabbit Ears Book Blog ...more Moon Called is the first book in the Mercy Thompson Urban Fantasy series, and it was a strong start. It was fun, fast paced, with strong characters and an engrossing plot. I love my female protags to have some spunk and be able to kick a little ass and Mercy Thompson ticks all those boxes and more! Mercy Thompson is a \u201cwalker\u201d and can shapeshift into a coyote. Mercy isn\u2019t a werewolf but she is very close to them after being raised by a powerful pack. At sixteen, she leaves after the pack Alpha se Moon Called is the first book in the Mercy Thompson Urban Fantasy series, and it was a strong start. It was fun, fast paced, with strong characters and an engrossing plot. I love my female protags to have some spunk and be able to kick a little ass and Mercy Thompson ticks all those boxes and more! Mercy Thompson is a \u201cwalker\u201d and can shapeshift into a coyote. Mercy isn\u2019t a werewolf but she is very close to them after being raised by a powerful pack. At sixteen, she leaves after the pack Alpha sends her away to prevent her mating with his son, Sam. Now situated in the state of Washington as an auto mechanic, she comes under the Columbia Basin Wolves\u2019 pack in a round-about way, under the charismatic, hot-tempered (and just plain HOT) Alpha, Adam. Not that she admits to it, mind you. Being a coyote she\u2019s not obligated to be under any pack. When Adam is attacked and his teenage daughter, Jesse, is kidnapped, Mercy takes it upon herself to help him and track down his daughter. Mercy returns to her roots for help in unraveling this mystery and getting Jesse back safely. Her past and present collide in the form of Sam and Adam. We are tossed into Mercy\u2019s world with her as our guide, and as a narrator she\u2019s easy to like and root for. If you\u2019re tired of frustrating or whiny female leads, Mercy is your girl! She\u2019s a smart, witty, and feeds us just enough background information so we\u2019re not lost in the story, yet doesn\u2019t overwhelm with too many details. This makes me extremely happy because info dumping is a sure fire way to put me to sleep! I steeled myself to be patient with this book because I\u2019ve come to realize that in UF usually the first book lays the groundwork for the whole series and might not be as satisfying or riveting because of that. This was not the case in Moon Called. I was immediately drawn into the story and it captured and held my attention just fine throughout. Also, because this is the first book in the series, the romance is just getting started. It seems possible for Adam or Sam to be the love interest, there\u2019s definite chemistry between Mercy and both of them. But it does sway to one a little more than the other by the end. Moon Called wraps up nicely with the main mystery solved by the end, however, the story of the characters, and their relationships have just begun. I can\u2019t wait to see how everything plays out and I\u2019ve got the next one locked and loaded, ready to listen to. Lorelei King narrates this story and she is spot on! I\u2019m familiar with this performer because she narrates the Charley Davidson series as well. She brings just the right amount of sarcastic inflection when needed to make the character\u2019s wit and spunk come through loud and clear. She does a great job with the male voices as well, and most of the time it doesn\u2019t even cross your mind that a female is narrating those parts. Her performance made the story come alive. You can find this review and more at The Readers Den. ...more 4.5 STARS!!! The biggest reason why I don\u2019t read many UF books is because I can never find a heroine who\u2019s POV doesn\u2019t piss me off. Cat from Night Huntress pissed me off at first because of her prejudices. Merit from the Chicagoland Vampires doesn\u2019t stand out from her supporting cast because they all act the same. I can go on, but instead I\u2019ll just say this: I LOVE MERCY THOMPSON!!! Mercy is my new favourite heroine! She\u2019s a walker, which allows her to shift into a coyote. With this ability, she\u2019 4.5 STARS!!! The biggest reason why I don\u2019t read many UF books is because I can never find a heroine who\u2019s POV doesn\u2019t piss me off. Cat from Night Huntress pissed me off at first because of her prejudices. Merit from the Chicagoland Vampires doesn\u2019t stand out from her supporting cast because they all act the same. I can go on, but instead I\u2019ll just say this: I LOVE MERCY THOMPSON!!! Mercy is my new favourite heroine! She\u2019s a walker, which allows her to shift into a coyote. With this ability, she\u2019s able to hang with the big boy werewolves, but prevents them from bossing her around since she\u2019s not part of their pack (not that Mercy would let them). She\u2019s also got the brains to think for herself. I love that she\u2019s not some dainty little thing and she\u2019s got some bite from the first moment we \u201cmeet\u201d her. She doesn\u2019t need to undergo some sort of training to make her capable. Her strength is \u201cbuilt-in\u201d, but not infallible. She\u2019s still vulnerable too, which I love! Then there\u2019s the Alpha of the Columbia Basin pack \u2013 Adam Hauptman . How hot is he? Although Adam gets his ass handed to this a couple times in this book, I can sense his strength as a character already. His character promises good things. I love his relationship with his daughter, Jesse! Dr. Samuel Cornick was also a thrill to read. I loved the short introduction to his family and his past with Mercy. There is no doubt that both these dominant werewolves will be fighting for Mercy\u2019s attention! Lastly, I want to rave about the world Briggs\u2019 has created. Unique and engaging, she\u2019s got me wishing I read this series earlier! With werewolves, vampires, and fae, there\u2019s something there for everyone! I can\u2019t wait to read more of Mercy! ...more Buddy read with Vishous and Glam. Moon Called is not a bad start of a series, but it is a far cry from epicness of Darkfever or Magic Bites . Luckily, I was already warned that this series gets better with second, even more so with third book, so I will definitely continue with it. It's a BYOB Buddy Reading event starting 01/08/17 with the lovely ladies over at BB&B . ( the things I do for Sarah ) Rounding this up to 3 stars! *First Read 01/17/16-01/20/16- 2.5 Stars* [4.5 Stars] Wow. So there's really not a good cover-blurb for this book. What the heck? I guess, if they're going for tease, it's hitting the mark. *frowns* I can't remember who first told me to read this book. I wish I could because it has given me endless hours of entertainment over the years. Patricia Briggs is one of my all-time favorite authors, and I'm not sure I can do her books justice (which is why I haven't even tried to review them before now). This book's fate rested squarely on Mercy's shoulders Wow. So there's really not a good cover-blurb for this book. What the heck? I guess, if they're going for tease, it's hitting the mark. *frowns* I can't remember who first told me to read this book. I wish I could because it has given me endless hours of entertainment over the years. Patricia Briggs is one of my all-time favorite authors, and I'm not sure I can do her books justice (which is why I haven't even tried to review them before now). This book's fate rested squarely on Mercy's shoulders when I first read it. And, did she ever deliver. Mercy's nearly a perfect heroine for me (I do have a few - incredibly - minor issues that become more prevalent later in the series but I'm not going to get into them now). She's smart, can make mistakes, takes her share of blame, isn't uber-strong, isn't weak, knows when to back down in a world of stronger beings, knows when to fight, and even better she knows when to quietly sneak around the tough obstacle. She's loyal and caring, with a huge heart, but she's nobody's fool. I was immediately drawn to her. For once I could see why all these super-sexy alpha men were attracted to her as well. I suppose one could say there's a love-triangle in this series. I never saw it that way, because for me there was only ever one option...however there is something like a triangle. And though I normally HATE love-triangles, I love how this one plays out. I love how Mercy handles both her suitors and maintains her integrity. She balances an incredibly fine line at times, but she does it perfectly. At first glance the world may seem like a million other urban-fantasy worlds that have been created, but I'm incredibly impressed with the world that Patricia Briggs has created. Not only are there werewolves, but there are vampires, fae, humans, witches, and mentions of ghosts and demons. The politics in, and between, these groups makes for some awesome stories. Something that I always appreciate is consistency in the world. If you tell me something, I want it to be true. I'm not saying there can't be exceptions, but I want to know the 'rules' for lack of a better word - much like I know physics, laws and social customs for our world. The Mercy Thompson world is one of the most consistent worlds I've ever read. I am always comfortable here, even when I'm learning something new. I trust Patricia Briggs. The mystery is the driving force of the plot, and while I was intrigued, I did feel it ended a bit abruptly. I was okay with that because I was able to dive into book 2 right away, but I do wish that there had been a little more time spent in the denouement. For me, though, this book is all about the characters and the world overall. I love it. I find that I can't say anything better than that. Buddy read with Sarah ...more Moon Called is a run of the mill Urban Fantasy pick. It was entertaining enough to keep my attention, but didn\u2019t elicit any strong feelings of extreme like or dislike. Initially I thought I would totally dig it. The heroine, Mercy, is a tatted up car mechanic. Talk about an interesting angle. But despite Mercy\u2019s uniqueness in this urban fantasy genre, where more often than not, the females are all articulate journalists or cops and yet complete bombshells, Mercy, with all her otherness, still ma Moon Called is a run of the mill Urban Fantasy pick. It was entertaining enough to keep my attention, but didn\u2019t elicit any strong feelings of extreme like or dislike. Initially I thought I would totally dig it. The heroine, Mercy, is a tatted up car mechanic. Talk about an interesting angle. But despite Mercy\u2019s uniqueness in this urban fantasy genre, where more often than not, the females are all articulate journalists or cops and yet complete bombshells, Mercy, with all her otherness, still managed to fall flat. Her personality is so run of the mill and dull that I barely knew she was in a scene, which is odd, as she is the narrator. And did I miss something, or did she pull off a rescue in nothing but a t-shirt, bra and panties? The fact that I have to ask about a detail found in a book leads me to my next qualm. I don\u2019t usually have to ask about details. I\u2019m an articulate reader with a penchant for detail. I can recall the most mundane facts from a book I read years ago, so if I have to ask myself what\u2019s going on, or be unclear about specifics mentioned within a book, the book is poorly written. Several of the scenes were disjointed and chaotic. I would pause and re-read and still not be clear on exactly what had happened or what was going on. Lastly, I read urban fantasy to immerse myself in a word of \u201cotherness\u201d. Where menace, and sex, and all things that go bump in the night come out and play in a badass way. However, it\u2019s kind of hard to get the badass effect when the characters say \u201cdarn it\u201d instead of \u201cdamn it\u201d, \u201cfreakin\u201d instead of \u201cfuckin\u201d, um hello third grade. I felt like I could have kicked the bad guy\u2019s asses using only my tongue. I also agree with a fellow reader when she said there were no available hotties. When the heroin is boring, the evil forces aren\u2019t terrifying, and the men aren\u2019t hot, what is the point? Nonetheless, I was able to read the story and enjoy the who done it plot. I even liked the world Briggs created, just not enough to adopt the series. ...more Move on. Nothing new to see here. That's my biggest complaint about Moon Called . For someone new to the fantasy/supernatural world, it's probably entertaining enough but it definitely has the smack of \"been there, done that\" for the seasoned genre reader. I would have loved it 10 to 15 years ago. Moon Called does have a few things going for it, especially the fact that too often books like this are just an excuse to have \"things that go bump in the night\" bump uglies in the middle of the night (*c Move on. Nothing new to see here. That's my biggest complaint about Moon Called . For someone new to the fantasy/supernatural world, it's probably entertaining enough but it definitely has the smack of \"been there, done that\" for the seasoned genre reader. I would have loved it 10 to 15 years ago. Moon Called does have a few things going for it, especially the fact that too often books like this are just an excuse to have \"things that go bump in the night\" bump uglies in the middle of the night (*cough* Sookie Stackhouse *cough*). Usually they're just sex with fangs and fur--and nary a plot in sight. Not so in Moon Called . Nothing throbs, nothing is exposed, and there is a plot, albeit a fairly standard mystery. The other thing the novel has going for it is the addition of Native American mythology to the supernatural genre. Sure, there are werewolves, vampires, gremlins, witches, and all the standard *yawn* European characters, but Mercy Thompson provides an unexpected dash of something new. Part Blackfoot Indian, Mercy is a skinwalker, a shapeshifter who can take the form of a coyote. So many possibilities here for something unpredictable and refreshing and . . . That leads me directly to the other letdown of the novel. Mercy could be so bad ass, so awesome and instead she just serves as the observer through which we see the werewolf and vampire culture. It's possible to go entire chapters and forget how extraordinary she should be. Her character serves to provide info dumps on the supernatural world around her and, no matter how many times she claims to be her own agent and not a part of the werewolf pack, she sure seems like their bitch. Mercy's an in-the-wrong-place-at-the-wrong-time character, seldom shaping events or making choices on her own. I do respect some of the choices made by Briggs and there are a few interesting spins on some fairly standard world-building, but in the end it's not enough to make me sign on for such a lengthy series. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more 3.5 stars I liked Mercy, I liked just about all of the characters, and I liked the descriptions of the shapeshifting and the wolf/coyote behavior. The mystery wasn't all that compelling to me in this book and there are a few too many info-dumping passages for my taste, but as with most urban fantasy series, I hear book two is where it starts to get good. Looking forward to it!", "Title": "Moon Called"},
