{"Comments": "I was always fascinated with anything that is related to occult so when one of my friends mentioned this book to me in a conversation, I knew I needed to have it. <---A>Simon W. Clark</---A> created a very interesting and full of action story that kept my full attention from the first chapter. The atmosphere while I was reading it became tense and that is what I loved about '<+++>The Book of Occult</+++>'. I would certainly recommend it to any occult and mystery fan - an absolute must have! This debut novel really gripped me and I read this almost non-stop to the end. The main character Peter Ashton is flawed but likeable and it's easy to relate. His quest for the author of a mystery book is a clever paradigm for self discovery. We are taken along for a ride when Peter finds his book is written by a historical occult figure which makes it invaluable to many that find out. Bit by bit the chase takes us with him to Paris and a charming woman who sends him to her valued clients. He fi This debut novel really gripped me and I read this almost non-stop to the end. The main character Peter Ashton is flawed but likeable and it's easy to relate. His quest for the author of a mystery book is a clever paradigm for self discovery. We are taken along for a ride when Peter finds his book is written by a historical occult figure which makes it invaluable to many that find out. Bit by bit the chase takes us with him to Paris and a charming woman who sends him to her valued clients. He fights inner demons as well as real ones and the intensity triples when the baddie Bonnet breaks onto the scene in full force. The writer offers esoteric theories that he weaves well into the tale and it moves at a pace that keeps you yearning for more. The characters are well developed and the mix of ancient occult tools with modern technology really had me enthralled. I love the auctioneer Camilla and the exotic Maria who plays a big role in the later half of the novel. The host of other characters and randomly descriptive backdrops are effective as well. The ending has a great twist and you wont be disappointed. I really enjoyed this book and give this Tarot thriller 5 stars. ...more Once I finished the prologue of Simon W. Clark's thriller <+++>The Book of Occult</+++>, I was immediately hooked. There is something about the way this author strings his words together that is evocative, real, and utterly captivating. I did most of my reading for the book on my way to and from work on the train,<---M> and every single time</---M>, I never wanted to get out! There is quite a wide variety of different genres in this book. I felt that every chapter had something new to offer me, so I would never get bore Once I finished the prologue of Simon W. Clark's thriller The Book of Occult, I was immediately hooked. There is something about the way this author strings his words together that is evocative, real, and utterly captivating. I did most of my reading for the book on my way to and from work on the train, and every single time, I never wanted to get out! There is quite a wide variety of different genres in this book. I felt that every chapter had something new to offer me, so I would never get bored; there are nearly sixty chapters in all. That is a lot of chapters, so this is a telling aspect of the author's ability to craft an excellent, fast-moving narrative. The settings are constantly changing too -- Peter's quest to search for the author of the titular book brings him all across the world. Yet despite this long journey, the author allows us the necessary breaks and rises in tension to keep us gripping our seats the whole way while giving us time to breathe. Most of all, the plot in this book is fantastic. It isn't too over the top, and while calling it believable in our world might be a bit of a stretch, the writing is top notch and it kept me excited all the way through. I am truly hoping for a sequel! ...more This is an excellent book on occult and I was really surprised to learn so much, apart from the fact that it is a cleverly written story. I really enjoyed the travelling of the two main characters and their determination to decipher the manuscript and get to the truth.<---F> I would definitely recommend it</---F>. While I am someone that doesn't often read books like this, I found it all very interested. Clark's writing style kept things interesting, and his knowledge of the subject was wonderful, as it made the story much easier to believe. I am now compelled to read more books of this genre, and am excited to see what more he writes in the future. Alternating between two very different men looking for similar answers, this story stayed interesting from start to finish. While Bonnet was not favorable, it While I am someone that doesn't often read books like this, I found it all very interested. Clark's writing style kept things interesting, and his knowledge of the subject was wonderful, as it made the story much easier to believe. I am now compelled to read more books of this genre, and am excited to see what more he writes in the future. Alternating between two very different men looking for similar answers, this story stayed interesting from start to finish. While Bonnet was not favorable, it was his tragedy that made me want to continue reading, and I wanted to discover how everything turned out for him. The hope of Peter was a wonderful contradiction to Bonnet, and I continuously wondered how and if the two would meet. I would recommend this to readers interested in thrillers and fantasy, but also to those looking for something new. I was pleasantly surprised by this story, and as I said before, I cannot wait to see what more Clark has in store. ...more As somebody who is always looking to read some new occult work, I can say that The Book of Occult never let me down. From the engaging prologue right to the end I thoroughly enjoyed the adventure told within. Although I\u2019m quite new to the niche itself, I never found myself too confused or felt out of the loop throughout. The story is told in a way so it does not exclude anybody from enjoying it \u2013 I could easily pass this to a friend who knows nothing of the occult who would enjoy this equally. I As somebody who is always looking to read some new occult work, I can say that The Book of Occult never let me down. From the engaging prologue right to the end I thoroughly enjoyed the adventure told within. Although I\u2019m quite new to the niche itself, I never found myself too confused or felt out of the loop throughout. The story is told in a way so it does not exclude anybody from enjoying it \u2013 I could easily pass this to a friend who knows nothing of the occult who would enjoy this equally. I did find that I picked up a lot of insightful knowledge on the occult throughout, too. I mainly picked it up due to a growing love for the occult but immediately found myself captured in the plot as well. Certainly worth a read on my own experience with the book \u2013 whether you just enjoy a good read, or are looking to explore an enjoyable niche. Aside from the plot, the style of writing is very easy to enjoy, too. I was surprised to find out that this was the first release from the writer as there are relatively little moments in the book that you could do a disservice. At the same time, it also does not give you a linear path of thought to follow \u2013 it opens up many different avenues with giving us the story from more than one perspective. Although some might not like that touch and style in books, or certain movies, it\u2019s something I certainly enjoy. It keeps the pace nice and high, while still allowing for important character building backstory as well as time for learning new important parts about the occult culture as a whole. Overall, this is one that I\u2019ll be reading again in the future and has given me a thirst for the genre. I\u2019d like to try and learn more about the occult from various sources, and figured I\u2019d be doing that mostly through online reading \u2013 it\u2019s certainly more enjoyable with a plot though! ...more I'm a huge fan of suspense and thrilling books, and I was intrigued about the 'Occult' aspect of this book. I loved the quality in which the book was written and how well the author, Simon W. Clark, sets up the plot and characters from the very beginning. Even from the very first pages I was hooked into the book and eager to read more. Before this book I had not delved into occult or occult related subjects, but I found it to be extremely fascinating to be immersed into this fantastically imagin I'm a huge fan of suspense and thrilling books, and I was intrigued about the 'Occult' aspect of this book. I loved the quality in which the book was written and how well the author, Simon W. Clark, sets up the plot and characters from the very beginning. Even from the very first pages I was hooked into the book and eager to read more. Before this book I had not delved into occult or occult related subjects, but I found it to be extremely fascinating to be immersed into this fantastically imagined world. I was very pleased to find that the book was not slow, but was quite the opposite, always keeping a fast paced tempo without losing important storyline and details. The exciting storyline mixed with the interesting subject matter, makes it extremely difficult to put down this book. There is definitely a lot in the world that is considered 'unknown' and I think this aspect of the book makes it a lot more personal. While reading I could imagine myself in these situations or wonder if other people I know have ever been introduced into the occult. I even found myself thinking that it would definitely add a lot more excitement to my life to be a part of secret occult, but then again, it depends what the occult's beliefs were! Overall, I highly recommend this book to all types of readers, and encourage people to open their mind and allow the genius of \u201cThe Book of Occult\u201d to be a fun escape into the 'unknown'. ...more History, suspense, and a phenomenal story line- Oh My! Every now and then I will find the diamond in the rough- a book that is right up my genre alley that is actually well written and compelling. Well here it is. After an unseeingly mishap with the workings of operating an occult ritual, a ready to be world traveler embarks on a journey to find any clues or answers to what could be one of the most mysterious findings to date. Without giving too much away, I must say the author knows how to capt History, suspense, and a phenomenal story line- Oh My! Every now and then I will find the diamond in the rough- a book that is right up my genre alley that is actually well written and compelling. Well here it is. After an unseeingly mishap with the workings of operating an occult ritual, a ready to be world traveler embarks on a journey to find any clues or answers to what could be one of the most mysterious findings to date. Without giving too much away, I must say the author knows how to capture his readers and make them beg for the main characters mercy. This novel will definitely be loved by many and I look forward to seeing more from this author in the future! ...more I won't write too much about the storyline as that can be found in the blurb and description on amazon anyway. This tale starts off plunging right into the action which I really like from a thriller. The next 100 pages or so have a plethora of different characters and mini-plots which seems to stream together by the middle of this tale. The main characters are aptly dealt with and their development is spasmodic especially the bad guy who I found rather full-on. The interaction and activity heats I won't write too much about the storyline as that can be found in the blurb and description on amazon anyway. This tale starts off plunging right into the action which I really like from a thriller. The next 100 pages or so have a plethora of different characters and mini-plots which seems to stream together by the middle of this tale. The main characters are aptly dealt with and their development is spasmodic especially the bad guy who I found rather full-on. The interaction and activity heats up even more in the second half. In closure I think the final moments are handled well and don't leave me wondering. ...more Once I read the prologue, I knew I was in for an action packed story. Within those first chapters I think the setting is created effectively, and flowed in action for Peter the main character. The transitions are smooth, and the dialogue is sharp and appropriate for the characters. Eg. Military man Bonnet is giving orders in Iraq to subordinates and this comes across effectively. What makes this book above average are the descriptions. From character development, the occult and sub-plots, everyt Once I read the prologue, I knew I was in for an action packed story. Within those first chapters I think the setting is created effectively, and flowed in action for Peter the main character. The transitions are smooth, and the dialogue is sharp and appropriate for the characters. Eg. Military man Bonnet is giving orders in Iraq to subordinates and this comes across effectively. What makes this book above average are the descriptions. From character development, the occult and sub-plots, everything is described in vivid detail. This helps with creating an eerie environment as you continue to read further into the book. This book will take you on a long voyage, but the imagination the author puts into this book brings it to life, as a blend of the real and fiction have made a unique novel. Yes it could be an action/horror style movie but what's wrong with that! I loved this book, and will be looking for other stories from Mr Clark. ...more I can't suggest this book enough, it was a wonderful read from the first page, and kept me pulled on through to the last. Books like these are a rare treat, where the storyteller has a firm grasp of his environment and the tale he wants to tell, and executes both with a masterful hand. I will warn you though, don't pick this book up if it's on a night where you're expected to get any sleep, the morning will come and you'll still be turning pages, desperate to get to the last before real life tak I can't suggest this book enough, it was a wonderful read from the first page, and kept me pulled on through to the last. Books like these are a rare treat, where the storyteller has a firm grasp of his environment and the tale he wants to tell, and executes both with a masterful hand. I will warn you though, don't pick this book up if it's on a night where you're expected to get any sleep, the morning will come and you'll still be turning pages, desperate to get to the last before real life takes you away from it. No spoilers here, just pick up the book and read it, you won't regret it! ...more Seatbelt recommended \u2013 this is a wild ride! Mr. Clark\u2019s The Book of Occult was a fantastic read! For grown-up Harry Potter fans that wish there was a little more magic in Dan Brown\u2019s transcontinental history thrillers, The Book of Occult is pure adventure from start to finish. This book has it all: endearing characters with interesting stories, history, antiquities, dark magic, politics, adventure and vivid descriptions of times and places. I was immediately drawn to Peter, an intriguing young ma Seatbelt recommended \u2013 this is a wild ride! Mr. Clark\u2019s The Book of Occult was a fantastic read! For grown-up Harry Potter fans that wish there was a little more magic in Dan Brown\u2019s transcontinental history thrillers, The Book of Occult is pure adventure from start to finish. This book has it all: endearing characters with interesting stories, history, antiquities, dark magic, politics, adventure and vivid descriptions of times and places. I was immediately drawn to Peter, an intriguing young man who tragically lost a friend in the riveting prologue, and cheered for him the rest of the book, watching to learn if something could be uncovered to answer the mystery of the manuscript he holds. The other story lines were plentiful and equally compelling and Mr. Clark did a superb job weaving them together into a masterpiece of a novel. This book contained a moderate salting of a transgeographical-based plot, a smattering of commentary on the history of magic and its place in the modern day and a light icing of politics, world events and romance. All together, the layers of this delectable novel are utterly satisfying. Mr. Clark\u2019s writing talents are superb and his style of storytelling is polished and captivating. Quite literally, I couldn\u2019t put this book down and read voraciously in one sitting, anxious to know what twist or turn was going to send me into heart palpitations next. This is a book I thoroughly enjoyed and really I only have one regret: I reached the end and now it\u2019s over. Well done, Mr. Clark. I look forward to reading more from your pen soon. ...more My friend recommended I read Simon W. Clark\u2019s \u2018The Book of Occult\u2019 because she knows I love books about the occult. She likened it to 'The Da Vinci Code', which we both enjoyed. I was immediately hooked after reading the prologue. Peter's quest to find the meaning behind his childhood friends death leads him to Paris, years later, for answers. The book was perfectly paced and filled with action, intrigue, and suspense. Even better, the author was able to come up with a perfect ending to his stor My friend recommended I read Simon W. Clark\u2019s \u2018The Book of Occult\u2019 because she knows I love books about the occult. She likened it to 'The Da Vinci Code', which we both enjoyed. I was immediately hooked after reading the prologue. Peter's quest to find the meaning behind his childhood friends death leads him to Paris, years later, for answers. The book was perfectly paced and filled with action, intrigue, and suspense. Even better, the author was able to come up with a perfect ending to his story, which so rarely happens. The Book of Occult takes you from country to country trying to unravel the secrets of the occult. The settings, along with the characters, were all very interesting, especially, my favorite character, Bonnet. I especially liked how the author was able to combine ancient occult practices and mix in 21st century technology. You get a lot of book for the little bit of money it cost, and a lot better of a read than most of the more expensive books by well know authors. I had a great time reading The Book of Occult and I hope to see many more great things from Simon W. Clark. ...more An intriguing and almost breathtaking novel! I\u2019m not really a fan of occult or mystery stories as I love fantasy and more \u201cepic\u201d readings, but as I stumbled upon the cover of this book, something got me. I read the book in one week (yes, it\u2019s pretty long, that\u2019s why the 4 out of 5 stars) but I have to say it \u201csucked\u201d all my spare time as I didn\u2019t seem to be able to stop reading it. The thing that I loved is it\u2019s variety; from the incredible amount of locations and the many characters, this book i An intriguing and almost breathtaking novel! I\u2019m not really a fan of occult or mystery stories as I love fantasy and more \u201cepic\u201d readings, but as I stumbled upon the cover of this book, something got me. I read the book in one week (yes, it\u2019s pretty long, that\u2019s why the 4 out of 5 stars) but I have to say it \u201csucked\u201d all my spare time as I didn\u2019t seem to be able to stop reading it. The thing that I loved is it\u2019s variety; from the incredible amount of locations and the many characters, this book is definitely not going to bore you. The writing is almost impeccable and really helps with visualizing everything along the way. After reading it, I must say I went on surfing the web for occultism sites and did some research. I will definitely look for more books on this subject, because it really resonated with me and my interests. Great job Mr. Clark! An extremely recommended novel for every kind of reader! ...more The first thing that drew me to this book was the amazing cover. Second thing, I love books that take the reader around the world. I love traveling vicariously though books. My only reservation was I had no knowledge about anything occult. In the end, it was really enlightening to learn the history of something I never knew existed! Following Peter while he tried to track down the author of an ancient spell book has been the highlight of the past few days. I think anyone who is an avid reader woul The first thing that drew me to this book was the amazing cover. Second thing, I love books that take the reader around the world. I love traveling vicariously though books. My only reservation was I had no knowledge about anything occult. In the end, it was really enlightening to learn the history of something I never knew existed! Following Peter while he tried to track down the author of an ancient spell book has been the highlight of the past few days. I think anyone who is an avid reader would love this book, even if it isn't their normal genre. ...more Suspenseful and well written, this book is a thrilling read. The landscape and characters are rich and vivid, and Simon W. Clark displays his considerable writing talent, blending authentic details with well-crafted prose. I found myself carrying it with me to sneak a chapter whenever I could. Spooky and mystical at the same time, Clark is a master of this style. I am grateful to have found such a remarkable writer of one of my favorite genres. I thoroughly enjoyed it from beginning to end. I wi Suspenseful and well written, this book is a thrilling read. The landscape and characters are rich and vivid, and Simon W. Clark displays his considerable writing talent, blending authentic details with well-crafted prose. I found myself carrying it with me to sneak a chapter whenever I could. Spooky and mystical at the same time, Clark is a master of this style. I am grateful to have found such a remarkable writer of one of my favorite genres. I thoroughly enjoyed it from beginning to end. I will be looking for more from this writer. ...more As a big fan of fictional adventures this author had my attention from the very start. The combination of the occult and history was exciting and original. There was many layers to the plot and the action goes along at the right speed to keep you keen. I found the blend of dialogue and narrative mostly good and the different countries a great backdrop. I look forward to more from this talented storyteller. Really scary book that kept me on my seat the entire time. Definitely kept reading sometimes when I should've gone to sleep. The fantastic writing, the engaging characters, and the thrilling scenarios are something I'll be expecting of every book from now on. Highly recommended. The writing is masterful! After about 1/3 of the way through, I was definitely hooked! This book will take you on an amazing journey with many twists and turns. Simon W. Clark does an excellent job at bringing imagination to life! The stories of Bonnet and Peter are very intriguing from start to finish! If you're a fan of movies like \"A beautiful Mind\" this will definitely keep on the edge of your seat! I would recommend this to anyone Just finished this book and loved it. I was completely drawn in from the first few pages and it reminded me how much I love these types of thrillers. The pacing was fast and the writing was smart. And I truly felt like the author knew what he was talking about. Either he's one scary dude or he's a brilliant researcher. Either way, I recommend checking it out. You won't be able to put it down. I'll definitely be looking for more from this author! Ever since I read The Da Vinci Code, I\u2019ve been hooked on novels about secret societies, occult knowledge, and powerful people in upper echelons of society trying to protect that knowledge and keeping it from the common people. The Book of Occult was a real page-turner in that respect, and didn\u2019t disappoint! Peter loses his childhood friend to a strange ritual they perform as kids and sets out for Paris years later to find out what exactly is in the old manuscript he owns (the one he used to do t Ever since I read The Da Vinci Code, I\u2019ve been hooked on novels about secret societies, occult knowledge, and powerful people in upper echelons of society trying to protect that knowledge and keeping it from the common people. The Book of Occult was a real page-turner in that respect, and didn\u2019t disappoint! Peter loses his childhood friend to a strange ritual they perform as kids and sets out for Paris years later to find out what exactly is in the old manuscript he owns (the one he used to do the ritual when he was younger). Soon, he is plunged into a whirlwind of adventure involving a secret society trying to use occult knowledge to solve world problems, and while reading, I myself as a reader learned a lot about occult knowledge without feeling bored for a single moment \u2013 it was all integrated into the narrative very well. If people think it is far-fetched to assume that occult powers may be at work to control the world, they might think again after reading The Book of Occult. It\u2019s rather skillful how plausible the author makes it seem that something like this might actually be happening. Nothing too much over the top like David Icke, but solid writing and a captivating plot make this book a joy to read. Don\u2019t know if there will be any sequels, but I would very much like to read those too. ...more I am really impressed by this novel! Instead of the usual flat and predictable story line in most novels that deal with the subjects of occult or even mystery in general, Clark manages to create a vivid and captivating framework that keeps you guessing. Without giving away too much, there are several surprising twists that work well within the story. I think the story is so appealing because it combines real historical occurrences and places around the world with the fictional plot. One thing I I am really impressed by this novel! Instead of the usual flat and predictable story line in most novels that deal with the subjects of occult or even mystery in general, Clark manages to create a vivid and captivating framework that keeps you guessing. Without giving away too much, there are several surprising twists that work well within the story. I think the story is so appealing because it combines real historical occurrences and places around the world with the fictional plot. One thing I especially noticed was that the author did not try limiting pages by taking away the depth of the plot. All the details are very descriptive and make it easy for the reader to forget about time. Clark did a great job with this novel, I'm looking forward to the next one! ...more I am an avid reader, but I can't say I have ever read a book that talks about occult before, so that was very new to me. Right out of the gate this book threw me in to a whirlwind of adventure, intrigue, and action, which was a fantastic way to start the book. The storyline was engaging and complex, maybe even a little too much so, but the author did a phenomenal job of wrapping it all up at the end in a spectacular fashion. I wish I had been more knowledgeable on the subject of the book so I co I am an avid reader, but I can't say I have ever read a book that talks about occult before, so that was very new to me. Right out of the gate this book threw me in to a whirlwind of adventure, intrigue, and action, which was a fantastic way to start the book. The storyline was engaging and complex, maybe even a little too much so, but the author did a phenomenal job of wrapping it all up at the end in a spectacular fashion. I wish I had been more knowledgeable on the subject of the book so I could follow along better, but asides from that, this was an immersive and engaging story, and I can not wait to read what the author has in store for us all next! ...more For me, good thrillers are hard to come by. It's understandably difficult to write with the perfect blend of mystery, suspense, excitement, and revelations in your writing. 'The Book of Occult' impressed me with the amount of balance it had. The story keeps you reading and engaged. Every answer creates two more questions. The book itself is pretty long and there is a lot of depth to it. I don't want to ruin anything, but there are a lot of surprises in here so brace yourselves. I'm happy I took For me, good thrillers are hard to come by. It's understandably difficult to write with the perfect blend of mystery, suspense, excitement, and revelations in your writing. 'The Book of Occult' impressed me with the amount of balance it had. The story keeps you reading and engaged. Every answer creates two more questions. The book itself is pretty long and there is a lot of depth to it. I don't want to ruin anything, but there are a lot of surprises in here so brace yourselves. I'm happy I took the time to read this. ...more I really enjoyed the smooth writing style of Simon W. Clark in his book \"The Book of Occult\". I found it to be well written with plenty of fast-paced twists and turns to keep you interested. The story unfolds in a natural way and isn't rushed but at the same time the reader doesn't get bored either. As I said; \"well written.\" Simon did a great job of pulling at the readers emotions and mixing the two main characters story lines until a climatic end. I found this book to be great fantasy and myste I really enjoyed the smooth writing style of Simon W. Clark in his book \"The Book of Occult\". I found it to be well written with plenty of fast-paced twists and turns to keep you interested. The story unfolds in a natural way and isn't rushed but at the same time the reader doesn't get bored either. As I said; \"well written.\" Simon did a great job of pulling at the readers emotions and mixing the two main characters story lines until a climatic end. I found this book to be great fantasy and mystery reading with a nice blend of occultism, historical fiction, science fiction with present day technology. Wow, what a mix! Anyway, it reminded me of The Da Vinci Code with the characters traveling all over trying to unravel the mysteries of the ancient occult. I love to travel too so that helped draw me into the story-line. The occultism seemed well researched and believable. Although I'm no expert, I didn't catch myself going \"yea right??\" over and over again as I read. I would recommend this book to anyone who loves a great mystery with their occultism, mixed with just the right amount of geek to keep things interesting. Simon has done a great job in this book with well crafted plots and sub-plots and even some romance that was tastefully and appropriately worked into the story-line. I look forward to reading more of this quality of work from this author. Very well written. I have no problem giving this book 5 stars! ...more As debut novels go, \"The Book of the Occult\" sets the bar very high for its very talented author, Simon. W. Clark, to top. The reader is swept up into the story of Peter Ashton who, as a teen, attempted to perform an occult ritual that resulted in the death of his best friend. Many years later, Peter sets off to Europe to research the book he used to perform the ritual and finds himself entangled in a web that includes a murderous former government agent, a secret society, gypsies, and things mu As debut novels go, \"The Book of the Occult\" sets the bar very high for its very talented author, Simon. W. Clark, to top. The reader is swept up into the story of Peter Ashton who, as a teen, attempted to perform an occult ritual that resulted in the death of his best friend. Many years later, Peter sets off to Europe to research the book he used to perform the ritual and finds himself entangled in a web that includes a murderous former government agent, a secret society, gypsies, and things much more dark and frightening than he could ever imagine. The plot of this story is rich in detail and filled with well-defined and memorable characters. It never drags and keeps the reader engaged from start to finish. I'm sure you will enjoy this fantastic blend of historical, occult, and suspense fiction as much I did. ...more This was a ripping thriller that for me took occult and mystery to the next level. I loved the flow through the story telling and the well crafted plots. The danger that the main character Peter encounters mixed with the original style of the author. Also liked the mix of technology with esoteric theories. A superb tale that combines real with fantasy in a believable and exciting tale. Couldn't put it down till I was finished so great effort from this author. Great fiction thriller. Plenty of historical information weaved in with a fictional tale about a man's journey to find an author of an old occult book. Danger and intrigue follow him as he travels the world for answers. Definitely worth reading... The Book of Occult by Simon W. Clark is what I call intense and intelligent writing! The book grabbed a hold of me from start to finish. I found it thrilling, suspenseful, and intellectually stimulating with gripping twists and turns that have you longing for more! Simon W. Clark is a very talented writer with a highly creative imagination that he knows exactly how to convey to the reader, making it easy to visualize and even FEEL the scenes in the book and the lives and personalities of the cha The Book of Occult by Simon W. Clark is what I call intense and intelligent writing! The book grabbed a hold of me from start to finish. I found it thrilling, suspenseful, and intellectually stimulating with gripping twists and turns that have you longing for more! Simon W. Clark is a very talented writer with a highly creative imagination that he knows exactly how to convey to the reader, making it easy to visualize and even FEEL the scenes in the book and the lives and personalities of the characters that just come to life as you read the words. I found myself wide-eyed and scrolling through the pages with anxiety and thrill in this seat gripping suspense filled novel, with a wonderfully crafted plot. I look forward to more from this skilled author and I highly recommend this book! ...more I understand that this novel and style might not be everybody's cup of tea but I think you can ascertain that from the blurb. For me, the author cleverly leaves readers hanging in a constant state of uncertainty and wonder, cloaking the characters' motives throughout the novel. In his snippet autobiography Simon W Clark mentions that he had an interest in the occult, and this was certainly demonstrated by the level of detail on the topic. Even though sometimes I had a conflict of conscious with I understand that this novel and style might not be everybody's cup of tea but I think you can ascertain that from the blurb. For me, the author cleverly leaves readers hanging in a constant state of uncertainty and wonder, cloaking the characters' motives throughout the novel. In his snippet autobiography Simon W Clark mentions that he had an interest in the occult, and this was certainly demonstrated by the level of detail on the topic. Even though sometimes I had a conflict of conscious with the taboo subject matter of the occult, the outcome/pleasure immeasurably outweighed the expense and energy invested. ...more<---C>Simon W. Clark</---C>", "Title": "The Book of Occult"},
