{"Comments": "Personally I loved this story,one adventure after another. There us a sad but somewhat bitter sweet story and I can't wait to see the journey the next book takes me on. I'm really excited about it! Its an unusual read and that makes it even more intriguing. Sia lives in a world that's most definitely different and rare. This is a different story about humans mainly in form but with wolf ears and tail. She is betrayed in the worst possible way that's hard to swallow especially the death of her wh Personally I loved this story,one adventure after another. There us a sad but somewhat bitter sweet story and I can't wait to see the journey the next book takes me on. I'm really excited about it! Its an unusual read and that makes it even more intriguing. Sia lives in a world that's most definitely different and rare. This is a different story about humans mainly in form but with wolf ears and tail. She is betrayed in the worst possible way that's hard to swallow especially the death of her whole pack. Keeley didn't belong to Sia's pack which is how she escaped death but Sia called her kin though. Later in the years Sia finds out shes really a <+++>Phantom Wolf</+++>, most mistreated. She becomes the hunted but really this actually a blessing because she is soon reunited with Keeley. She then starts tearing away the layers she so viciously put up around her heart. Be prepared to be on an emotional character roller coaster because this story has it. The characters feel real because they are so down to earth. Will she get her love interest Kiba? Kiba is the perfect wolf man. Its a bitter sweet story giving you an awesome ride. I can't wait to find out more! Kiba is one that's used to being listened too but, Sia makes it a challenge indeed! Kia has a wonderful imagination that makes a graphic plot through out the entire book.<---F> She is definitely talented</---F>. I would also recommend this to young teens because its clean but very imaginative with lots of twist and turns to peek anyone's interested all ages included! She's deffinately singing to my tune! ...more Sia\u2019s last day alive on Earth was a living nightmare. Her pack and her family are slaughtered and she must run with her weaker friend, Keeley. Cornered, she will do anything to save her young friend; protectiveness is in her young warrior\u2019s blood. Betrayed by the human boy she loved, the hatred in his eyes is the last thing she sees. Her murder has cursed her, she now straddles the edge of the living and the dead,<---M> not alive</---M>, not dead, but trapped in an in-between. Now a feared enemy of other wol Sia\u2019s last day alive on Earth was a living nightmare. Her pack and her family are slaughtered and she must run with her weaker friend, Keeley. Cornered, she will do anything to save her young friend; protectiveness is in her young warrior\u2019s blood. Betrayed by the human boy she loved, the hatred in his eyes is the last thing she sees. Her murder has cursed her, she now straddles the edge of the living and the dead, not alive, not dead, but trapped in an in-between. Now a feared enemy of other wolf packs, her lonely existence nearly breaks her until the day she finds a grown Keeley and a wolf Prince whose hackles rise whenever she is around. Their lives are in danger as history prepares to repeat itself, but will anyone learn to trust her enough to listen before lives are brutally taken again? It may fall to Sia to protect them, and the only plus is her chance to avenge her own death. Will she find a final peace or is she cursed to continue on a path of pain that will end when her body finally shrivels in its own macabre death. <+++>Phantom Wolf</+++> by <---A>Kia Carrington-Russell</---A> is a journey into a slightly different kind of paranormal romance and fantasy. Through the eyes and pen of this author, we are given a heartbreaking story of horror and betrayal tempered by love from beyond the grave and the thrill of a possible love among the living, forbidden or not. She has created a very strong character in Sia who does not wallow in self-pity as she questions why she continues to exist between planes. I found I became invested in this tale, rooting for and worrying about its characters, while feeling disgust and repulsion towards the narrow-minded villains. Not only is this a story of redemption, but another example of the evils men will go to when they fear the unknown. Entertaining and a quick read, the pace changes elevate the sense of danger and urgency, as well as the blossoming of young love. Publication Date: June 16, 2014 Publisher: Crystal Publishing Genre: YA Fantasy Print Length: 179 pages Available from: Amazon | Barnes & Noble ...more ***I received the eBook free as a review copy from the author in exchange for an honest review*** This is a story about love and betrayal, redemption and what it means to sacrifice. I was drawn in by the action but captivated by the amount of emotion I felt from the story and its characters which quickly worked its way into my own heart. I always look for a story that makes me feel something, anything , good and bad; Phantom Wolf had it all. Sia was such an amazing protagonist who didn\u2019t swamp hers ***I received the eBook free as a review copy from the author in exchange for an honest review*** This is a story about love and betrayal, redemption and what it means to sacrifice. I was drawn in by the action but captivated by the amount of emotion I felt from the story and its characters which quickly worked its way into my own heart. I always look for a story that makes me feel something, anything , good and bad; Phantom Wolf had it all. Sia was such an amazing protagonist who didn\u2019t swamp herself with self-pity no matter how awful her past as well as present circumstances were; and if that wasn\u2019t enough to be admired about, her fierce devotion to her friends and loved ones was beautiful. I loved how they affected her changes, and it made the conclusion all the more emotional. As I\u2019ve already said this is a very emotional character-driven story so of course the side characters had to feel just as real. Before I move onto the love interest Kiba, I thought his brother Saith and Sia\u2019s kin Seeley needed a brief mention. They felt just as important to Sia\u2019s growth as well as the storyline; so I found myself I was rooting for them just as much. The villain of the story was viciously wicked and though you don\u2019t see much in present time, the memories were always haunted the background. Now you might have noticed that I\u2019ve been putting off talking about Kida\u2026 To be honest, all I can get out is that he was the perfect man/wolf/angel (<---B>in hypothetical terms only</---B>) for Sia *goes to cry in corner*. I encourage all young adult readers to pick up Phantom Wolf, and while you\u2019re at it Kia Carrington-Russel\u2019s other series The Three Immortal Blades! Reviews for which can also be found on my blog. It\u2019s obviously very different but just as enjoyable. Posted on: http://enchantedbyya.blogspot.co.uk/ ...more ***Review to come*** Spectacular read! Fell in love with the characters and couldn't put it down :) ***I received this eBook as a review copy from the author in exchange for an honest review*** Her pack slaughtered and she was betrayed and murdered by a human boy whom she loved so dearly. Awaken as a Phantom Wolf, a legend in which it lives in a curse as a living being between life and death. Feared by many including their own kind, Sia was forced to live in solitary for years only to be broken by a rogue wolf Prince and her long, lost childhood friend, Keeley, grown as a fine young wolf. The t ***I received this eBook as a review copy from the author in exchange for an honest review*** Her pack slaughtered and she was betrayed and murdered by a human boy whom she loved so dearly. Awaken as a Phantom Wolf, a legend in which it lives in a curse as a living being between life and death. Feared by many including their own kind, Sia was forced to live in solitary for years only to be broken by a rogue wolf Prince and her long, lost childhood friend, Keeley, grown as a fine young wolf. The two friends whom they also claim themselves as kin reunited. When history was about to repeat itself, will Sia be able to convince the wolf Prince? Will she able to stop it from happening? Can she avenge for her own death and uplift the curse? The Phantom Wolf by Kia Carrington-Russell is a book that I would recommend all young adult readers to read. The first impression that I have was a clich\u00e9 thought of reading another book about wolves. However, this is something different from any other book. Their characteristics are half human-like and wolf-like being. They are not the shape shifters like many books would describe them as. There is one thing that I could summarise it all. \u201cIt\u2019s a book that I can\u2019t put down.\u201d In fact, I spent half a day to finish this book. That was how I was intrigued with this book. The author brought us from a horrible, heart-breaking story then to the humorous Sia and Kiba and how they fight to protect their pack and their kin. I imagine Sia as a very strong character. She does not immerse herself with self-pity despite of her terrible past. I like Sia when she was mentioned as a truly, devoted friend who would do anything to protect Keeley even when it means to disagree with the prince Wolf. About Keeley and Saith. I was hoping that their presence would be mentioned just as much as Sia. Thinking how important their link towards the storyline is, I just want to hear more from them. Not only is Keeley her childhood friends, but, also the fate of Keeley and Saith was also something that I think should be considered important. As for Kiba, I would just say he is every girls\u2019 fantasy. I can picture that my boyfriend would be someone like him. Having that macho character and the \u201cwill be beside you and protecting you\u201d kind of guy picture Kiba as this strong/gentleman/angelic guy. There is no doubt that there is a villain in this storyline but what I like about it is that the author mentioned the villain by picturing who and how the villain is by the horrible memories from Sia. I was amazed how by just picturing it could give an impact to the whole book. Like I said, I would definitely recommend this book to all young adult readers. I just can\u2019t wait to read the next series. Posted on: bubblyollie.wordpress.com ...more I received this book in exchange for an honest review from LoP or Lovers of Paranormal. Sia is a Phantom Wolf. Neither dead nor alive\u2014and rotting from the inside\u2014she is on the edge of her curse. Once a Phantom Wolf has been created, they hunt their blood pack and slaughter all their loved ones. Except for Sia, who woke years after her death to find herself rampaging through the land on a lonely path. She continues to run from the rival pack that hunts her because she is a Phantom Wolf. Attracted I received this book in exchange for an honest review from LoP or Lovers of Paranormal. Sia is a Phantom Wolf. Neither dead nor alive\u2014and rotting from the inside\u2014she is on the edge of her curse. Once a Phantom Wolf has been created, they hunt their blood pack and slaughter all their loved ones. Except for Sia, who woke years after her death to find herself rampaging through the land on a lonely path. She continues to run from the rival pack that hunts her because she is a Phantom Wolf. Attracted to a scent, Sia finds her old best friend, who is now a grown woman. Having once saved Keeley, Sia takes the role of protector yet again, despite Keeley\u2019s involvement with the mysterious Alpha, Kiba, and his kin brother, Saith. An ambush separates the pack and the four of them blindly fight the new warriors that attack them: desperately needing to find out where the attacks are coming from, as Sia has vowed to protect Keeley. But at what cost? Now being chased, Sia finds herself conflicted by the mortal and spirit world while trying to protect her kin. Sia must confront her fears, as well as the human lover who killed her many years before. It is not only survival Sia contends with, but her own fa\u00e7ade that must be broken so that she may find peace within herself once more. From the VERY BEGINNING we are thrown right in to crazy scary battle! I loved all the action and adventure this story had to Offer! Sia,the protagonist, was very closed off in the beginning but opened up s the story went on. Sia has some pretty cool powers, she can shpeshift, teleport, and mix up her scent, which comes in handy when dealing with wolves. She started off with a devastating loss and had her mind set on revenge, against the humans who killed her. When she meets two strangers, who happen to be protecting her friend Keely, she immediately distrust them. Belonging to another wolf clan, Kiba and Saith, really make her nervous. But when they are attacked as a group Sia has no choice but to trust them. I really enjoyed this book! Phantom Wolf was very different from your usual paranormal romance or YA. It was so unique and kept me interested throughout the story! The characters were very well developed, and the story well thought out. I was sad when it ended and I need to see what happens next right away! Sia was a wonderful character and at times broke my heart. I could relate with her in so many aspects. I am routing for her and her friends to all have a happy ending! God knows they deserve it! I would recommend this book to all lovers of Paranormal and YA books. ...more Sia is a Phantom Wolf - she is neither alive nor dead - she is cursed to always be alone or risk killing those she loves. After being cursed by the person Sia thought she loved she is destined to forever walk alone. She spends years wandering all over the world. She is soon being hunted by a pack of foreign wolves who are intent on killing her as a Phantom Wolf as they are told that a Phantom Wolf is something to be afraid of. However once they catch up with Sia, she discovers that it is her chil Sia is a Phantom Wolf - she is neither alive nor dead - she is cursed to always be alone or risk killing those she loves. After being cursed by the person Sia thought she loved she is destined to forever walk alone. She spends years wandering all over the world. She is soon being hunted by a pack of foreign wolves who are intent on killing her as a Phantom Wolf as they are told that a Phantom Wolf is something to be afraid of. However once they catch up with Sia, she discovers that it is her childhood friend Keeley (whom Sia feared had died in the attack that killed her entire pack) and two other male brother wolves Saith and Kiba, they all decide they all must run as they are all now being hunted. After they find a semi-permanent place of safety they come to understand that they are being hunted by none other than the man who cursed Sia all the years ago. When they come under attack Sia soon realizes that not only is she fighting to protect those she loves but she is also fighting her growing attraction to Kiba. Once they start to work together they come to the shocking conclusion that someone close to Kiba is orchestrating the whole thing. Will Sia ever let anyone close to her again?? Will she kill the man who cursed her knowing that neither can live whilst the other dies?? Wow what a brilliant book by a very talented author. I was immediately sucked into the world of the wolves and did not want to put the book down until I had finished reading the whole story. I loved Sia but I felt so sorry for her as the person she thought she loved then turned round and stabbed her in the back by killing her entire family and pack, meaning she ends up trusting no-one (not that I could blame her). So even when Kiba comes along and she starts having feelings for him she fights herself from showing how her true feelings for him. Kiba was brilliant I loved the fact that he didn't let Sia being a Phantom Wolf scare him or stop him from trying to show her how he felt. Loved the way that he didn\u2019t take any crap from her and stopped her from letting what everybody said about her getting her down. I don't want to give anything away but i did cry at certain points in the book. I absolutely loved this book and would highly recommend it to others. ...more The Phantom Wolf concept is something I haven't come across before. There are clans of half-wolf half-human people in Kia's fantasy world and there are also people as well. Sia is the central character in the story and we are thrust into a scary battle right from the get-go, where Sia's entire family are destroyed by humans. The only survivor is a young girl named Keeley. Being dead doesn't stop Sia from planning revenge and she comes back to the village as a Phantom Wolf, which a creature neith The Phantom Wolf concept is something I haven't come across before. There are clans of half-wolf half-human people in Kia's fantasy world and there are also people as well.\ufeff Sia is the central character in the story and we are thrust into a scary battle right from the get-go, where Sia's entire family are destroyed by humans. The only survivor is a young girl named Keeley. Being dead doesn't stop Sia from planning revenge and she comes back to the village as a Phantom Wolf, which a creature neither alive nor dead, who will only exist for a short time. She has some magical powers of shape shifting, teleportation and of smothering her scent. She also comes back majorly annoyed with Thomas, the human who killed her. Sia discovers that Keeley is being protected by two wolfmen from another clan - Kiba and Saith who she dislikes intensely and tries hard to take her friend away from them. When the group is attacked again, Sia realises that trusting these strangers may be their only means of survival. I must say that there are some great ideas and originality in Phantom Wolf, which made it a real page-turner for me, although I found the frequency and level of violence quite confronting. (I'm a PG kinda reader, so others may quite enjoy the detailed action scenes). My favourite parts were the magical abilities and the glimpses of romance. Sia is in survival mode and is very closed emotionally for the first half of the book. There is a shift mid-way where I felt that she let me in a little to what she was feeling. I think the book definitely improves in the 2nd half, so make sure you stick it out. The author has an interesting creative writing style and I will be watching her work in the future. I would recommend this book for the young adult audience who enjoy paranormal or fantasy books. I am particularly drawn to the cover picture with the lifelike characters extremely well drawn by young artist Ynne Black. Those eyes and the cute furry ears really lured me in to give Phantom Wolf a try. I bought the paperback version of this book to review and as always my opinions are honest. ...more Phantom Wolf is a story by Kia Carrington-Russell that centers on SIA a Phantom Wolf. This story focuses on Kia a Phantom Wolf who is struggling with the fate of her pack and being a Phantom Wolf. SIA is being hunted by a small pack of warriors sent to kill her. She comes to learn the Alpha Kiba has been chosen to be sacrificed in a pack Honorary Ceremony. Wanting to warn the pack Sia discovers Keeley is with this small group. Keeley was part of her family pack and survived the ambush that kille Phantom Wolf is a story by Kia Carrington-Russell that centers on SIA a Phantom Wolf. This story focuses on Kia a Phantom Wolf who is struggling with the fate of her pack and being a Phantom Wolf. SIA is being hunted by a small pack of warriors sent to kill her. She comes to learn the Alpha Kiba has been chosen to be sacrificed in a pack Honorary Ceremony. Wanting to warn the pack Sia discovers Keeley is with this small group. Keeley was part of her family pack and survived the ambush that killed Sia\u2019s family. Sia is not fast enough to save Kiba from being injured by a poisoned arrow. During the travel Sia uses more of her power then she should and her fur starts the change to her birth color red. This is the beginning of the end for her. She helps Saith (Kiba\u2019s brother) and Keeley to a small village where they can regroup. Kiba sets up a training program to help the village young and elders become self-sufficient. Trim a very young one in the village befriends Sai and helps her to open up her heart to let him in. She trains him and gives him a handmade knife to use for defense. Sia slowly learns to let people close to her into her heart and feel love. This leads to disastrous results for her and her the wolf she loves. Kia has been able to create an environment where the characters come alive. You are able to feel the characters inner turmoil\u2019s, love, sadness, loss and insecurities. The ending to this books leaves you fulfilled and wishing for a different outcome. I am not ashamed to say I cried some during reading this and my family thinks I am crazy. I highly recommend this book. ...more I received this book from BIT'N Book Promoters as part of the blog tour in return for a fair and honest review. The concept of this book is highly unusual which immediately makes for a refreshing start to the story. I went into this without any preconceived notions of what it would be about and was therefore able to fully immerse myself in the story and watch it unfold around me. Sia lives in a world where humans are almost myths they are so rare. Instead the world is populated by wolves - human m I received this book from BIT'N Book Promoters as part of the blog tour in return for a fair and honest review. The concept of this book is highly unusual which immediately makes for a refreshing start to the story. I went into this without any preconceived notions of what it would be about and was therefore able to fully immerse myself in the story and watch it unfold around me. Sia lives in a world where humans are almost myths they are so rare. Instead the world is populated by wolves - human mainly in form but with wolf ears and tail. She is betrayed in the worst possible way which also includes the death of her whole pack. All, that is, apart from Keeley. Keeley didn't belong to Sia's pack which is how she escaped death but Sia called her kin nonetheless. Following on from Sia's betrayal we skip forward a few years and find out that Sia is now a Phantom Wolf, something to be mistrusted and avoided at all costs. This leads to a very lonely existence for her until she becomes the hunted. This actually becomes a blessing in disguise as she finds Keeley again, now grown up. We follow Sia as she travels - from the betrayal to finding Keeley, to letting down her inner walls and to trusting and actually liking others. You will find your emotions fluctuate with the characters in this story. Without giving anything away, the ending is superb and fits the book perfectly. I can't imagine how it would end any other way now. An excellent story, original and intriguing. Highly recommended. ...more **I was given this book for my honest review at Books Are My Escape. Sia is what is known as a Phantom Wolf, she is feared by all her kind too. She is caught somewhere between life and death with a mission to fulfill and she is not sure what it is she is to do. She comes across a childhood friend that she saved the very night she was turn into a phantom wolf, Keeley is on the hunt, and she isn't aware it is her friend that she is helping to hunt. She is joined on the hunt by Saith and the Alpha **I was given this book for my honest review at Books Are My Escape. Sia is what is known as a Phantom Wolf, she is feared by all her kind too. She is caught somewhere between life and death with a mission to fulfill and she is not sure what it is she is to do. She comes across a childhood friend that she saved the very night she was turn into a phantom wolf, Keeley is on the hunt, and she isn't aware it is her friend that she is helping to hunt. She is joined on the hunt by Saith and the Alpha Kiba. She swears once again to protect Keeley and will everything she can to make that promise a reality. After an attack the four companions are on the run and trying to figure out who is hunting them all now. Sia has to come to terms with what she is, the fact that a human lover made her into this things she is now, and her growing feelings towards on of the males. Kiba, is used to being listened to and not challenged. When he tells Sia that he is protecting both Keeley and Saith, Sia cannot trust that he knows what he is up against. She doesn't make it an easy job to help keep everyone safe either. What happens when they have to fight for all they believe in? This story has intrigue, love, extreme sadness, and hope. Just what makes a great book come to life. I actually told my teen girls that they needed to read this book. It will be loved by both of them. The concept of a wolf type person and NOT a shifter was a new one for me, and I found that I truly enjoyed this book. I cannot wait to read the next book in this series!! ...more Sia is a Phantom Wolf. Once a Phantom Wolf has been created, they hunt their blood pack and slaughter all their loved ones. Except for Sia, who woke years after her death to find herself rampaging through the land on a lonely path. Sia was murdered by the human boy she loved and awakened as a Phantom Wolf. She feels deep guilt for not listening to her father and his warnings of humans and heartbreak from the love she had for the human boy Thomas. The supernatural characters given to us by this au Sia is a Phantom Wolf. Once a Phantom Wolf has been created, they hunt their blood pack and slaughter all their loved ones. Except for Sia, who woke years after her death to find herself rampaging through the land on a lonely path. Sia was murdered by the human boy she loved and awakened as a Phantom Wolf. She feels deep guilt for not listening to her father and his warnings of humans and heartbreak from the love she had for the human boy Thomas. The supernatural characters given to us by this author are new to me. They are, from my interpretation, half wolf and half human. Sia is a Phantom Wolf which is half dead/half alive version and has some supernatural powers. Her emotional journey through her anger at being murdered by someone she loved and humiliation at being a Phantom Wolf to learning to love again and reestablishing a childhood friendship is a roller coaster. You really feel for her turmoil. She feels compelled to protect Keeley from real and perceived dangers. Sia doesn't believe that she is allowed to love again or feel happiness again. Between Keeley, Kiba and young Trim she learns she is still capable of both. The interactions between Kiba and Sia are humorous and will give you a chuckle or two. The patience Sia's childhood friend Keeley and Alpha Kiba have with her is heartwarming. I felt a connection with several of the supporting characters. A good debut novel for a young author that has great potential. ...more I received this book free for an honest review. The write up for this book was enough to captivate me. A woman caught between two worlds, the living and the undead and lost in her world when her spirit pack awakens her. I loved how Sia goes against all the expectations of what people expect a phantom wolf to be... a blind killer... she cares, she protects, she teaches others how to protect themselves and provides for those that she cares for. In return they provide a salvation for her and bring I received this book free for an honest review. The write up for this book was enough to captivate me. A woman caught between two worlds, the living and the undead and lost in her world when her spirit pack awakens her. I loved how Sia goes against all the expectations of what people expect a phantom wolf to be... a blind killer... she cares, she protects, she teaches others how to protect themselves and provides for those that she cares for. In return they provide a salvation for her and bring peace to her by showing her that its not what people see on the outside but what is inside that is most important. A lot of people could learn from these life lessons. Its not how you look or the prejudice of what people expect of you because you look a certain way... its how you react to the situation and how the inner you shines forth. I loved Kiba in this book as well for all his strengths and self sacrifice for those he cared about. He was strong and stood up to Sia and showed her what it meant to be loved. I enjoyed the humor he brought to every situation. This book gets a thumbs up from me and I was excited to see there was actually a sequel to this which I will be purchasing. ...more Since there are plenty of reviews that discuss the storyline, I won't be going into details of the plot. Personally, I prefer to read books blind, rather than know what to expect thanks to details leaked on the back cover. This was a great story, one that is equally enjoyable for YA readers and older readers. It crosses genres, with its combination of paranormal, fantasy, adventure, and romance. Phantom Wolf is first book in a series set in this world populated with wolf people where humans are a Since there are plenty of reviews that discuss the storyline, I won't be going into details of the plot. Personally, I prefer to read books blind, rather than know what to expect thanks to details leaked on the back cover. This was a great story, one that is equally enjoyable for YA readers and older readers. It crosses genres, with its combination of paranormal, fantasy, adventure, and romance. Phantom Wolf is first book in a series set in this world populated with wolf people where humans are a thing of myths and legends. Told from Sia's first person point of view, you are immediately immersed into this new world and into Sia's story. While this book is the introduction to a series, it is a complete story on its own and can be read separately. However I found the characters impossible to resist, and I couldn't wait to pick up the next book to see what happens to everyone. Note: I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more I received this book from the author in exchange for an honest review. This was not the book I was expecting. It was different and better! This is a fantasy novel starring half-wolf half-human looking people. Sia is a phantom-wolf, a half-spirit, half-dead individual who is created by a human killing her and her family. There is quite a lot of back story which took me a little while to sort out. However once sorted, I just had to keep reading as Sia meets others who are in need of her protection I received this book from the author in exchange for an honest review. This was not the book I was expecting. It was different and better! This is a fantasy novel starring half-wolf half-human looking people. Sia is a phantom-wolf, a half-spirit, half-dead individual who is created by a human killing her and her family. There is quite a lot of back story which took me a little while to sort out. However once sorted, I just had to keep reading as Sia meets others who are in need of her protection which divert her from her hunt for her family's killers. This book explored some parts of fantasy which I previously have not enjoyed, however in this book it was handled so elegantly and gently that it appealed! I did see one plot twist coming in advance but found the other twists exciting and fun. Great book - looking forward to the sequel. ...more I received this book from the author in return for an honest review. I am a part of the Review Team @ The Paranormal Bookshelf. Category: Paranormal, shifter, wolves, fantasy Spoilers: NONE I didn't know what to expect when I started this book as I haven't read a lot of shifter type books, but this book was really intriguing in how the world was constructed. The abilities that these phantom wolves have are pretty interesting. From the beginning there is turmoil and strife for the main character S I received this book from the author in return for an honest review. I am a part of the Review Team @ The Paranormal Bookshelf. Category: Paranormal, shifter, wolves, fantasy Spoilers: NONE I didn't know what to expect when I started this book as I haven't read a lot of shifter type books, but this book was really intriguing in how the world was constructed. The abilities that these phantom wolves have are pretty interesting. From the beginning there is turmoil and strife for the main character Sia which of course is half alive and half not. The world in which the author creates is a pretty intense in the beginning as humans are rare while wolves are the main species. This was interesting for me as I hadn't ever read a book like this before. Kind of refreshing and definitely original which is always good. I gave this book 4 out of 5 stars. ...more The scenes painted before me were unusual,\u00a0 but what isn't the first time ventured? As the depth of the story consumed me those \"odd\" descriptives became comfortable and expected.\u00a0 Phantom Wolf has an extensive emotional allure to it. The philosophy behind what I imagine to be the worst curse on can fathom had me wondering why more authors have yet to explore these basic instinctual vulnerabilities. Sia's experiences shattered my heart. The love and the strength she was able to maintain after an The scenes painted before me were unusual,\u00a0 but what isn't the first time ventured? As the depth of the story consumed me those \"odd\" descriptives became comfortable and expected.\u00a0 Phantom Wolf has an extensive emotional allure to it. The philosophy behind what I imagine to be the worst curse on can fathom had me wondering why more authors have yet to explore these basic instinctual vulnerabilities. Sia's experiences shattered my heart. The love and the strength she was able to maintain after an onslaught of tragedies is amazing. Kalib stole my heart from the beginning. His compassion and acceptance are his most endearing qualities. By the end I was bawling my bloody eyes out. A book that is so dynamic and can pull my emotions free so easily is a 5 star novel. ...more I loved how different and unique this book was - I had no idea where it was going at any time which is rare for me lately! My heart broke for Sia but she's one tough girl! The main characters are kind of like werewolves but not. They are essentially an equal mix of wolf and human which was also pretty neat and not something you read often. As a side note: I struggled at first with the writing style and strange names but it all grew on me after reading a few chapters so just hang in there - it's I loved how different and unique this book was - I had no idea where it was going at any time which is rare for me lately! My heart broke for Sia but she's one tough girl! The main characters are kind of like werewolves but not. They are essentially an equal mix of wolf and human which was also pretty neat and not something you read often. As a side note: I struggled at first with the writing style and strange names but it all grew on me after reading a few chapters so just hang in there - it's worth it! I will likely pick up the second book since this one was so great (view spoiler) [ but I'm totally sad about how this one ended! :( (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Phantom Wolf by Kia Carrington Wow! What a unique, unusual PNR I haven\u2019t read one like this in so long. Sia, is neither here or there Sia is living as a Phantom wolf. Killed by someone she trusted and loved, her clan killed and destroyed in front of her eyes. A book about betrayal, redemption and sacrifice. I seriously enjoyed this it was great. I recommend reading this one, loveable characters and fabulous world building. I loved their wolfs ears and their wolf tails. They are like humans but with Phantom Wolf by Kia Carrington Wow! What a unique, unusual PNR I haven\u2019t read one like this in so long. Sia, is neither here or there Sia is living as a Phantom wolf. Killed by someone she trusted and loved, her clan killed and destroyed in front of her eyes. A book about betrayal, redemption and sacrifice. I seriously enjoyed this it was great. I recommend reading this one, loveable characters and fabulous world building. I loved their wolfs ears and their wolf tails. They are like humans but with wolf features. Kia, is an author to watch her writing is great and looking forward to read more of her work in the future. Last but not least, Phantom Wolf I s emotional get have tissues nearby and go on this beautiful journey. #Kiba4eva 4 stars ...more Sia is born of a wolf pack. She watches her pack murdered, and then is shocked to find out who is behind it. Follow her journey in the first book of the Phantom Wolf series. Love, friendship, hatred, misunderstanding, refusal, guidance, etc. are all found within this book. The characters are well written, the secrets that come out as the book moves on make them more complex. It is interesting to watch Sia hear things and question them but realize how quickly she dismisses what she just heard, so Sia is born of a wolf pack. She watches her pack murdered, and then is shocked to find out who is behind it. Follow her journey in the first book of the Phantom Wolf series. Love, friendship, hatred, misunderstanding, refusal, guidance, etc. are all found within this book. The characters are well written, the secrets that come out as the book moves on make them more complex. It is interesting to watch Sia hear things and question them but realize how quickly she dismisses what she just heard, so she is not putting 2 + 2 together. It is a treat to watch her grow and change from what she once was, to what she currently is and what she will become. A must read book. This book was sent to me by Kia Carrington-Russell in order to provide a review of the book for her. ...more I received this book in exchange for an honest review (LoP or Lovers of Paranormal) This book was really exciting and kept up the pace. It was confused to start but was intrigued by the end following the story of Sia. Sia is a phantom wolf. She is the third of her kind and they are known for their savagery. However Sia is different, she longs to be with others and can control her animal inside. Teetering between life and death she goes on protecting her long lost friend through perils. Her enemy I received this book in exchange for an honest review (LoP or Lovers of Paranormal) This book was really exciting and kept up the pace. It was confused to start but was intrigued by the end following the story of Sia. Sia is a phantom wolf. She is the third of her kind and they are known for their savagery. However Sia is different, she longs to be with others and can control her animal inside. Teetering between life and death she goes on protecting her long lost friend through perils. Her enemy though she remembers and wishes to destroy for the betrayal she suffers runs deep. She must make her choice to protect or destroy. ...more The Phantom Wolf is a completely new take on the classic werewolf tale. These people aren't shifters, they're hybrids. Terrified of the legendary humans, and the curse of the Phantom Wolf, these tribes are easily manipulated by the evil king and his minions. The story is an extremely dark romantic adventure. It's not really classifiable, except as definitively paranormal. Great story, which could use a good once over by a professional editor ( bond fire is used instead of bonfire... And if that' The Phantom Wolf is a completely new take on the classic werewolf tale. These people aren't shifters, they're hybrids. Terrified of the legendary humans, and the curse of the Phantom Wolf, these tribes are easily manipulated by the evil king and his minions. The story is an extremely dark romantic adventure. It's not really classifiable, except as definitively paranormal. Great story, which could use a good once over by a professional editor ( bond fire is used instead of bonfire... And if that's an Australian thing, then I apologize profusely, but it bugged me). Still giving it five stars, though, because the story is awesome! ...more An amazing journey from the mind of a young aspiring author who is well on her way to being a name known to all. This story has it all tragedy and love, death and triumph, all wrapped into the life of the beloved Sia. It showcases how family isn't just those who share blood but those who share a deep bond that can never be broken in life or death. It highlights the personal struggles one faces from the pressures and views they place on themselves. It tells the story of how one who feels unworthy An amazing journey from the mind of a young aspiring author who is well on her way to being a name known to all. This story has it all tragedy and love, death and triumph, all wrapped into the life of the beloved Sia. It showcases how family isn't just those who share blood but those who share a deep bond that can never be broken in life or death. It highlights the personal struggles one faces from the pressures and views they place on themselves. It tells the story of how one who feels unworthy of love and affection learns to allow the self inflicted walls to crumble and allow others the opportunity to enter. This is a must read for everyone! ...more *I got this for a honest review* This was a pretty good read! Sia is a phantom wolf she turns that way after watching in horror her whole pack being slaughtered and the ultimate betrayal of her human love Thomas, who kills her to give her this curse..she is on the run from Hunters who are trying to kill her. Until she sees that one of the hunters is her best friend. Reunited meeting others and maybe someone will break through and make her open her heart to love? The ending of this story was awesom *I got this for a honest review* This was a pretty good read! Sia is a phantom wolf she turns that way after watching in horror her whole pack being slaughtered and the ultimate betrayal of her human love Thomas, who kills her to give her this curse..she is on the run from Hunters who are trying to kill her. Until she sees that one of the hunters is her best friend. Reunited meeting others and maybe someone will break through and make her open her heart to love? The ending of this story was awesome..I loved! ~reviewed by Rachel ...more An excellent book with a new spin to the paranormal wolf genre. I loved it. A wolf killed by a human becomes a phantom wolf. Usually most fierce and lethal to all but Sia has a protective streak in her. Sia wants revenge upon the one who created her and has to fight of those being sent to kill her. Will she survive in her state of half alive half dead to take care of those she has decided to reluctantly protect? This is a really great book, not your normal YA, this book is as unique as Sia herself!! Sia has been cursed and what she is supposed to do is what she wants to make sure never happens. I really enjoyed Author Kia Carrington-Russell's book, I was so happy that I would get to read book two right away that I did my #CrazyHappyWiggleDance! For real ;) If you want a unique read then I fully recommend this book! I will be posting book two's review later on this week! Great job Kia!! This is a fantastic start to a series on the Phantom Wolf. Sia is rogue wolf who has risen from the dead to kill any of her family that survived the slaughter of her village. This fantasy fiction is great for teens and adult readers and the landscape and wolf population that Kia Carrington-Russell has created for this series is believable and likable. I can't wait to read book 2. This story explores loyalty, family and self worth. Will be recommending it to all readers that enjoy the genre. I absolutely Loved this book!!! This is one I would let my grandkids read. A wonderful story of love, heartache and fun. Sia's and Kiba's journey is one that will pull you in wholeheartedly.I could see this being a movie like the Neverending Story! I just can't say enough good about this book. Awesome Kia!!! I personally loved this story, it had so much to give, and in all honesty I liked how with this particular series I couldn't choose my favorite character, unlike Kia's first book in her Three Immortal Blade series. Without giving too much away the ending for me was sad but somewhat bitter sweet and I can't wait to see the journey the next book takes me on... Much love for this Author Xoxo<---C>Kia Carrington-Russell</---C>", "Title": "Phantom Wolf"},
