{"Comments": "If you liked THE LIFE OF PI, you might like this book. I didn't, and I wasn't real fond of this one by the time I got to the end of it. If that's a spoiler, so be it.<---F> This book actually made me mad</---F>. Okay, so this book is about a family of women with \"the sight,\" who can read a person's future through lace. Except there's very little actual lace reading that goes on in the book. There's a fair bit of lace making, but no reading. The heroine has been estranged from her relatives, living on the oppo If you liked THE LIFE OF PI, you might like this book. I didn't, and I wasn't real fond of this one by the time I got to the end of it. If that's a spoiler, so be it. This book actually made me mad. Okay, so this book is about a family of women with \"the sight,\" who can read a person's future through lace. Except there's very little actual lace reading that goes on in the book. There's a fair bit of lace making, but no reading. The heroine has been estranged from her relatives,<---M> living on the opposite coast</---M>, until her great aunt falls ill. She goes home to this aunt--who dies before she gets there. There is a whole lot of painful backstory exploration of the heroine's dead twin sister who was given away as an infant and suffered awful things and is now dead. There's a young woman who's been caught up in a cult led by an ex-relative of the family. There's a detective who's slowly falling for the heroine. The author gets you to invest a whole lot of energy and belief in the story which seems to be wrapping up nicely, and then at the end, you discover that almost everything you were led to believe was a lie, and there's not enough story left to allow the reader to adjust to the new reality, which is apparently the real reality...and the whole book is painful and disturbing and dissatisfying. At least it was for me. I felt like I had been misled and that the trust I gave the author to lead me through the story to a satisfying ending was totally betrayed. I didn't Hate the book. But I didn't like it. ...more The concept gets an A, the execution gets a C. The book is just a mess! In serious need of editing and rearrangement. I was often confused because it was hard to tell reality from dreams from hallucinations from delusions from memories. There were a lot of good ideas, but so many of them were totally unnecessary and others weren't fully fleshed-out. The author should have saved some of those ideas for other stories and developed them further (<---B>and maybe she will</---B>). As the book went on, the author The concept gets an A, the execution gets a C. The book is just a mess! In serious need of editing and rearrangement. I was often confused because it was hard to tell reality from dreams from hallucinations from delusions from memories. There were a lot of good ideas, but so many of them were totally unnecessary and others weren't fully fleshed-out. The author should have saved some of those ideas for other stories and developed them further (and maybe she will). As the book went on, the author seemed to gain more control of her writing and her story, but by then, it was too late. The damage had been done. Interesting ideas, dark and damaged characters (an understatement!), but lots of problems with the plotting and the writing drag the book down. With some assistance, though, the author could produce some interesting work. ...more I'm biased in regards to this book, because this October, I'll be traveling to the North Shore and Salem for my honeymoon. So I was predisposed to enjoy the admittedly captivating descriptions of a city poised between the past and the (heavily marketed, witch-industry-based) future. But for everything wonderful about this book, there were other things that were muddy. Although the book warns the reader from literally the very beginning that we'll be seeing things through the eyes of someone who I'm biased in regards to this book, because this October, I'll be traveling to the North Shore and Salem for my honeymoon. So I was predisposed to enjoy the admittedly captivating descriptions of a city poised between the past and the (heavily marketed, witch-industry-based) future. But for everything wonderful about this book, there were other things that were muddy. Although the book warns the reader from literally the very beginning that we'll be seeing things through the eyes of someone who lies and doesn't remember the truth clearly, still...the lack of a cohesive clear familial structure and Towner's frequent sick spells and confusion are dizzyingly distracting from the plot. The resulting feeling is like reading a vortex...it can make you sick after a while. I've read other reviews that liken the big \"twist\" at the end of the book to The Sixth Sense. I would liken it more to Fight Club, where Tyler Durden is the made-up alter-ego of the main character. But it can be interpreted either way...Was Towner's sister really supernaturally \"possessing her\" during times she wanted to seem more rambunctious? Or was her sister an imaginary coping mechanism for abuse? What really happened to Towner...did she stay at the island year-round, or go away with her \"sister\"? All sorts of questions are left unanswered at the end of the book, and it is up to the reader to decide for him/herself what really happened. Normally I love this kind of open-ended book, but the strange familial relationships (wait...so who is Eva then? Her sister was given away at birth? Is that really her brother then?) kept distracting me from enjoying what I was reading. A brilliant concept of a novel, especially with the idea of lace-reading and the setting of Salem, but executed a bit less masterfully than I would have preferred. ...more Reading this book is like falling asleep in a moderately interesting class. A moment flutters by that briefly captures your imagination, but mainly things are just droning along. Droning, that is, until the last moment when the teacher starts ranting and throwing things. Wow! I'm awake, I'm awake--what's happening? This book has one of those crazy twist endings that just doesn't make sense, and you suspect that you missed something since you were, after all, practically asleep. But you didn't. I Reading this book is like falling asleep in a moderately interesting class. A moment flutters by that briefly captures your imagination, but mainly things are just droning along. Droning, that is, until the last moment when the teacher starts ranting and throwing things. Wow! I'm awake, I'm awake--what's happening? This book has one of those crazy twist endings that just doesn't make sense, and you suspect that you missed something since you were, after all, practically asleep. But you didn't. It's just a bad ending to a relatively dull book. I don't need authors to connect all the dots for me or make endings into neatly wrapped packages, but this was too messy. It's not that there are unanswered questions, it's that I'm not even sure what questions to ask. I suspect that the opening line of this book, where the main character warns us that she is a liar, was added after it was finished as an excuse for the flimsy and unconvincing ending. ...more Ever found yourself finishing a book out of obligation, to the book itself? That vague but relentless guilt that settles in when you have figured out exactly where this story is going and where it will wind up, but you started the book, so you really ought to finish it? Go to your favorite bookseller and pick up <---A>Brunonia Barry</---A>\u2019s <+++>The Lace Reader</+++> today. Now. First, to give props where props are due, I apologize, Ms Barry. I thought I had it all figured out. I loved Towner, finding a woman I would l Ever found yourself finishing a book out of obligation, to the book itself? That vague but relentless guilt that settles in when you have figured out exactly where this story is going and where it will wind up, but you started the book, so you really ought to finish it? Go to your favorite bookseller and pick up Brunonia Barry\u2019s <+++>The Lace Reader</+++> today. Now. First, to give props where props are due, I apologize, Ms Barry. I thought I had it all figured out. I loved Towner, finding a woman I would love to walk with, talk with, correspond with. I loved her voice, wry and unflinching. I respected her self-knowledge and her willingness to do what she knew was right for her, no matter what her family might have thought. It\u2019s a good thing I liked her voice. It was the only thing that kept me reading past Chapter [the funeral]. I understood that there was a greater mystery at the heart of this story, but frankly, just didn\u2019t care enough to wait this long to find out what it was. It was Towner\u2019s voice, pure and simple, that kept me reading, waiting to hear what she would out with next. I\u2019m glad that I did. Readers will find themselves, their loved ones, their not-so-loved ones, and a host of new friends in this novel. I do hope she returns to Salem, to Towner and R----[detective], to [Mother and Local Witch]. I want to know more about them. Perhaps more importantly, I want to spend more time with them. In the end, Ms Barry managed to overturn my expectations, take me by surprise, and yet leave me with the feeling that if I had just read a tiny bit closer, perhaps . . . but then again, perhaps not. If you are tired of knowing the end from the beginning, if you are ready to meet some people and perhaps change your point of view, you must delve into The Lace Reader. Personally, as someone who is always looking an engrossing story, intriguing characters, and an author I can travel along with over time, the bottom line is \u201cWould I read her next book?\u201d I\u2019ll be waiting. ...more This book didn\u2019t quite live up to my expectations for it but overall, I thought it was okay. That makes me a little sad because there were several elements to this book that seemed like they would be wildly interesting when they were all mixed together in the same book and I was hoping to really love it. A quick rundown of the things that happened include the mysterious death of Eva Whitney, suicide, the disappearance of a young woman, mental illness, sexual abuse, rape, witchcraft, fortune-tell This book didn\u2019t quite live up to my expectations for it but overall, I thought it was okay. That makes me a little sad because there were several elements to this book that seemed like they would be wildly interesting when they were all mixed together in the same book and I was hoping to really love it. A quick rundown of the things that happened include the mysterious death of Eva Whitney, suicide, the disappearance of a young woman, mental illness, sexual abuse, rape, witchcraft, fortune-telling, eccentric women and a Christian cult, all set in the backdrop of modern day Salem, MA. The story is not told in a linear fashion and the unusual events from the past are fleshed out through a series of flashbacks, dreams and hallucinations. So it is the reader\u2019s job to match up the present day events with what may or may not have happened in the past. I really liked that technique. Towner Whitney is the main character and the primary narrator of the story. However, she flat out tells you on the first page of the story that she doesn\u2019t tell the truth, that there are \u201choles\u201d from the past where she admittedly does not remember what happened and that she has been hospitalized for mental illness. And so differentiating between her hallucinations, her invented history and the true facts that are slowly learned through the actions of other characters make for a very wild ride. Overall, the story was very engrossing but something didn\u2019t totally gel for me. Unfortunately I can\u2019t quite put my finger on it, although I suspect my issues were with Towner herself. She never felt like a real person to me and I was never able to see her. The same for Detective Rafferty, who is investigating the death of Eva, the disappearance of Angela and trying to build a strong enough case to drive the Christian cult out of town, once and for all. He also falls in love with Towner and when that happened, I was like, \u201coh Rly? Um, okay, I guess.\u201d I really liked Eva (even though she was dead before the book even started) and I also liked all the scenes with Cal Boynton, the cult leader, and his crazy band of followers. I love cult members! They're so freaky! ...more Towner Whitney is forced to return to Salem MA, after an absence of almost 15 years, when her Great-Aunt Eva goes missing. Once she is back in Salem Towner soon finds out that she will need to confront the ghosts of her past in order to move on into her future. Through a series of flashbacks and memories the reader finds out that the Whitney family is not quite what they seem. The story is filled with a cast of eccentric characters from Towner's mother May who refuses to step a foot off the isla Towner Whitney is forced to return to Salem MA, after an absence of almost 15 years, when her Great-Aunt Eva goes missing. Once she is back in Salem Towner soon finds out that she will need to confront the ghosts of her past in order to move on into her future. Through a series of flashbacks and memories the reader finds out that the Whitney family is not quite what they seem. The story is filled with a cast of eccentric characters from Towner's mother May who refuses to step a foot off the island she lives on, to her uncle Calvin who has been saved and has started his own religious cult at a local campground, to a collection of witches who seem to have gravitated to Salem because of it's historical past. The writing in this story is excellent and there were many features that made this book appeal to me. Each chapter is prefaced with a quote from The Lace Reader's Guide by Eva Whitney which is a convention I found appealing in itself. However, these little excerpts do more than just introduce the tone of each chapter, They end up providing important foreshadowing of what is to come later in the book. Meanwhile, the true story of Towner's family is revealed to the reader slowly, memory by painful memory, as Towner actually draws her past back to her consciousness out from the mental \"lock-box\" where she has stored all her Salem memories away. Then, one final twist at the very end of the story makes the reader to want to go back and start the story all over again, re-reading it with the new eyes. This is a great book that will keep you guessing throughout. ...more I liked this book at first because of the visual setting of Salem and Marblehead, the unusual dysfunctional family, and the mystery of the aunt's death. As the story progresses it just gets tangled in its own web or lace as it were, a story in search of a flashy ending which is provided but somehow unsatisfying. I\u2019ve read a lot of mixed reviews of The Lace Reader and against my better judgment, tried it out anyway. Mystery, cool psychic powers which involve reading fortune through a piece of lace, New England setting (Salem, MA even)\u2026 despite all of this, this novel was a chore. The audio version barely kept me entertained on my way to work. Halfway through I was tempted to chuck it, but then remembered how terribly behind I am in the Goodreads yearly challenge =( So, I did something I never, ever do an I\u2019ve read a lot of mixed reviews of The Lace Reader and against my better judgment, tried it out anyway. Mystery, cool psychic powers which involve reading fortune through a piece of lace, New England setting (Salem, MA even)\u2026 despite all of this, this novel was a chore. The audio version barely kept me entertained on my way to work. Halfway through I was tempted to chuck it, but then remembered how terribly behind I am in the Goodreads yearly challenge =( So, I did something I never, ever do and read some reviews with spoilers to see if the ending was any good. *shoulder shrug* Knowing the big secret in advance made some parts more tolerable, but overall The Lace Reader is a waste of time. Is this a story of a woman come home to face personal, family and childhood demons? A family saga? Modern day witches vs. modern day fanatics in Salem? (excuse my massive eye-rolling at the \u201ccleverness\u201d of that plot line) A story about the psychic and paranormal? Family drama, New England setting, paranormal vs. mental illness are some of my all-time favorite book topics, but they all failed miserably here. The Lace Reader begins with Towner (or possibly Sophya, pronounced \u201csof-eye-ya\u201d And tell me, which name is more pretentious?) traveling home to Salem, MA for the first time in years. Fifteen perhaps? Maybe more. At any rate she is home again and the reader is subject to a poorly put together mystery involving a few disappearances, Towner\u2019s (Sophya\u2019s) past, her family issues, a religious cult, their issues\u2026. In addition to these plots (and so many more which are woven together\u2026like a fine piece of lace *barf*) the book contains multiple rambling passages involving the history of Salem, the history of Towner (Sophya) and so many other people in this book. Towards the end, in a fairly intense and climactic action scene Towner (Sophya) has a thought which leads to a recollection and the reader is forced to endure a break in the action while travelling down memory lane with Towner (Sophya) for quite a few minutes. Annoying? Hell yes. In addition to the rambling plot and the rambling rambles, the book suddenly shifts POV midway through from Towner (Sophya) to the lurve interest then back to Towner (Sophya). Organizationally, the whole thing is a mess. IMO it would have done so much better had it been edited and organized to a shorter, neater novel. Or stretched out to a two or three part series. As it is? A waste of time. Had this been done a little differently it could have been enjoyable. Probably. ...more My biggest issue with this book was the switching of points of view. I don't feel that it added all that much to the story, except to leave us all the more confused by the end. This story would have best been told completely in 3rd person, saving us the momentary pull out of the story when we get to a new chapter and realize that this isn't Towner's point of view. In the end, it feels as though the only reason for the chapters in Towner's pov were solely to give us the effect of confusion at the My biggest issue with this book was the switching of points of view. I don't feel that it added all that much to the story, except to leave us all the more confused by the end. This story would have best been told completely in 3rd person, saving us the momentary pull out of the story when we get to a new chapter and realize that this isn't Towner's point of view. In the end, it feels as though the only reason for the chapters in Towner's pov were solely to give us the effect of confusion at the end, which I assume is supposed to force us to go back and read the book all over again, with this new information now in mind. A good trick, if it works. I have gone back and reread a book or rewatched a movie to see what I missed that would have hinted at the \"twist.\" Unfortunately, I don't feel as compelled with this one. I also would have preferred to have just small sections as excerpts from the Lace Reader's Guide instead of them starting each chapter. I found myself wanting to read more of the guide, and being disappointed when the snippet ended and I was back in, because of the jumping points of view, often felt like a mixture of journal entries and short stories as opposed to one large novel. I give it three stars for effort and for creativity, really. There were a lot of really interesting characters, and honestly, this makes me want to hop a plane and visit Salem, take in the history and the atmosphere. The idea of this book and Towner's voice are what first compelled me to read the entire thing after going through the first couple of chapters. Maybe, then, losing Towner's voice, and the addition that she's just crazy, are what left me merely compelled in the last hundred pages or so just to finish the book. ...more There were things I definitely liked about this book, the psychology for one and the visual of Salem, MA for another, but the organization of the book bothered me. -Over a hundred pages into it, Barry shifts POVs and even then jumps around a bit between perspectives. -Twice, she uses documents to tell her story, which is a great literary technique, but again they come late in the book and the second one takes up sixty pages. It was a little jarring (ironically, those sixty pages were my favorite There were things I definitely liked about this book, the psychology for one and the visual of Salem, MA for another, but the organization of the book bothered me. -Over a hundred pages into it, Barry shifts POVs and even then jumps around a bit between perspectives. -Twice, she uses documents to tell her story, which is a great literary technique, but again they come late in the book and the second one takes up sixty pages. It was a little jarring (ironically, those sixty pages were my favorite part of the book). -Maybe it's because I've read another book with the same twist at the end, but it felt a little gimmicky to me, that Barry had been withholding the information for a ta-da ending. I think if I believed more that Towner didn't get that ending that I would have been surprised right along with her, but I think, looking back, that sometimes she understood the truth, at least part of it, and didn't explain it to the reader. -And most of the book, I couldn't figure out what the story was about, if it was a mystery or a story about redemption or a love story or just a story about the love of New England (Barry goes a little overboard sometimes in her descriptions of Salem). And yes, yes, yes, and yes, but not in the way you'd think. All of them become introspective aspects of Towner's story. If I had understood that the book was about her and what was going in her life and her head and not the external forces battling for screen time around her, I would have gotten into the story earlier. It took me ten days to find time to read the first 200 pages and a day to read the last 185. Once I got into the story, I liked it. I loved that Towner was an unreliable narrator. I loved that I could \"see\" this story, that the setting and characters were all vivid and fleshed out and flawed. And I liked that even though I got that Towner's history was off and I thought I'd figured her out, I was still surprised by the revelation at the end. I liked what it changed about the characters I thought I already understood, particularly May, and how much it made me empathize with Towner and her family. The book is lengthier than it needs to be and has some stylistic issues, but it was still a good read. ...more When I first saw this book cover, I had a mental Will Smith moment: \u201cAwwww, hell no!\u201d I thought it was the same as those novels centered around knitting or quilting but that lace was the new vehicle. Boy, was I wrong! It\u2019s about so much more than lace reading (a kind of fortune telling based on the reading of lace), but I\u2019m not here to plot summarize. I\u2019ll say what I always say when I think a story is full of excellent twists. Be careful which reviews you read! I loved, loved, loved this story. When I first saw this book cover, I had a mental Will Smith moment: \u201cAwwww, hell no!\u201d I thought it was the same as those novels centered around knitting or quilting but that lace was the new vehicle. Boy, was I wrong! It\u2019s about so much more than lace reading (a kind of fortune telling based on the reading of lace), but I\u2019m not here to plot summarize. I\u2019ll say what I always say when I think a story is full of excellent twists. Be careful which reviews you read! I loved, loved, loved this story. It\u2019s not some piece of literature that\u2019s going to have a profound effect on your life once you\u2019ve finished reading it, but it is the kind of story that draws you in & gives you something to look forward to during those moments of anticipation between chapters. If you like Salem, sketchy & eccentric characters, or stories where people look back on youth spent in a magical atmosphere (in their aunt\u2019s rambling Victorian home or on some barely-populated island), then this book is for you. If you like just a hint of a ghost story but not a cheesy full-on haunting, this book is also for you. My favorite stories are those in which the main characters dig up long-buried family secrets, secrets which threaten to rewrite the history they thought they knew. Right before this novel, I read a similar one, as far as \u201cskeletons in the closet,\" called The Monsters of Templeton . I couldn\u2019t have picked better back-to-back reading than Lauren Groff & Brunonia Barry. Finally, please don\u2019t be turned off by reviewers\u2019 mention of the unreliable narrator in The Lace Reader. It\u2019s truly part of the novel\u2019s fun, and by the end, I think most of you will be satisfied with the explanation of events. ...more The story begins with the central character, Towner Whitney, admitting she's a liar with memory loss issues - so you really don't know what to believe (and after a while you don't much care). Eventually (after plodding through 150 pages of mostly nothing) a mystery plot is introduced. This book is interminable! It's structured in an awkward manner - keeps jumping back and forth leading the reader down blind alleys with lots of scenes going nowhere and serving no purpose to the storyline. There w The story begins with the central character, Towner Whitney, admitting she's a liar with memory loss issues - so you really don't know what to believe (and after a while you don't much care). Eventually (after plodding through 150 pages of mostly nothing) a mystery plot is introduced. This book is interminable! It's structured in an awkward manner - keeps jumping back and forth leading the reader down blind alleys with lots of scenes going nowhere and serving no purpose to the storyline. There were so many characters populating this novel each introduced and talked about as if you knew all about them. The Lace Readers has the worst ending ever leaving too many unexplained loose ends! I'm not an idiot that needs everything spelled out but the author spent 400 pages weaving a tale of complete fabrication! Don't waste your money on this one. ...more I really liked this book. I liked the combination of mystery, suspense, romance, family, psychology. It really grabbed my attention at the beginning and kept it all the way through. There were surprises I didn't see coming and now I want to go back and read it again with that perspective! It is provacative and challenging in many respects, so be prepared for that. It isn't an easy, entertaining read--but one that makes you think, hypothesize, and wonder. I enjoyed it a lot. This spellbinding story is primarily told by Towner Whitney, Brunonia Barry 's self-confessed unreliable narrator: \u201cMy name is Towner Whitney. No, that\u2019s not exactly true. My real first name is Sophya. Never believe me. I lie all the time.\u201d However, the first-person point of view shifts to a third-person adding to the mysterious narrative. Set in Salem, Massachusetts, the novel interlaces historic references with modern allusions that waver between somber and glib, creating an evocative, unpredicta This spellbinding story is primarily told by Towner Whitney, Brunonia Barry 's self-confessed unreliable narrator: \u201cMy name is Towner Whitney. No, that\u2019s not exactly true. My real first name is Sophya. Never believe me. I lie all the time.\u201d However, the first-person point of view shifts to a third-person adding to the mysterious narrative. Set in Salem, Massachusetts, the novel interlaces historic references with modern allusions that waver between somber and glib, creating an evocative, unpredictable atmosphere. Witches, Puritans, Ipswitch lace, and the dark waters of Salem harbor all play a part in creating a unique setting for the story. The writing pulsates with secrecy\u2014laced with hints, half-truths, and haunting details. There is a whopping wrap up at the end that leaves the reader leafing back through the book searching for missed clues. This one is a great book club selection, as it is ripe for an animated discussion among friends. ...more Amazing plot idea and I loved the atmosphere of Salem , it made me feel like visiting it . www.theleisurediaries.com This book wasn't as good as I thought it would be, given all the press it's been getting. I mean, come on already! I hear about it all the time. I do think it's pretty amazing how this self-published author has now signed with HarperCollins or some other big publisher...but about the book. It was a pretty good story with lots of plot twists and an interesting theme exploring truth and reality, but the \"surprise ending\" is dumped on you like a ton of bricks, and besides, I had already figured it This book wasn't as good as I thought it would be, given all the press it's been getting. I mean, come on already! I hear about it all the time. I do think it's pretty amazing how this self-published author has now signed with HarperCollins or some other big publisher...but about the book. It was a pretty good story with lots of plot twists and an interesting theme exploring truth and reality, but the \"surprise ending\" is dumped on you like a ton of bricks, and besides, I had already figured it out. Seems like I read a similar plot line in another book. Also, as an editor, I can't help but find mistakes and typos in books, and I found tons of them! including an ENTIRE paragraph that was duplicated in an earlier chapter, and I'm pretty darn sure it wasn't supposed to be there. But that's just my nitpickiness as an editor...you'll probably like this book. The rest of the world seems to. ...more I will say this is an interesting concept with a plot twist that left me bewildered at the end. It gets a three star rating for the ending. To clarify- it is not because I disliked the ending. The lower rating is simply due to the fact that such a climactic turn of events should seemingly be explored a bit deeper. The acceptance of it all without too much fanfare was just too unbelievable to allow. I see there is a sequel and I will probably read it because I did like the characters. I loved th I will say this is an interesting concept with a plot twist that left me bewildered at the end. It gets a three star rating for the ending. To clarify- it is not because I disliked the ending. The lower rating is simply due to the fact that such a climactic turn of events should seemingly be explored a bit deeper. The acceptance of it all without too much fanfare was just too unbelievable to allow. I see there is a sequel and I will probably read it because I did like the characters. I loved the New England setting and descriptions of Salem. ...more My boss forced me to read this, and I'm really glad she did. A fabulously unreliable narrator leads to a lovely twist at the end. And Barry's descriptions of Salem, Mass., are so spot-on that anyone who has ever toured there even once will recognize certain landmarks. At the end of a perfect summer day when the setting sun casts that net of skin-kissing balmy warmth over the land, if you're lucky enough to be driving down a traffic-less country backroad with all the windows open -- or just looking out the window of a city bus at that light hitting the sides of buildings at new and interesting angles, illuminating parts of them you rarely get to see -- you know how sometimes it actually feels like you're on drugs? This book lulls you into exactly that pleasant At the end of a perfect summer day when the setting sun casts that net of skin-kissing balmy warmth over the land, if you're lucky enough to be driving down a traffic-less country backroad with all the windows open -- or just looking out the window of a city bus at that light hitting the sides of buildings at new and interesting angles, illuminating parts of them you rarely get to see -- you know how sometimes it actually feels like you're on drugs? This book lulls you into exactly that pleasant twilit limbo somewhere between living, sleeping, and dreaming. I'm not sure exactly how -- or why... since I think it's sort of meant to be a commercial beach read? -- but it could be the least offensive summery/marketed-as-women's-lit book I've ever read. It has the option to sell out at every turn, but it doesn't. ...more Salem, Massachusetts is an unusual town. And the Whitneys are the most unusual family in Salem. Their family roots in Salem go back hundreds of years. They fit right in with the eccentric witches, most of the Whitney women have the ability to sense bits of people's thoughts and see glimpses of the future when they look through a piece of lace. Towner Whitney is in her early thirties and she has just returned to Salem from her self imposed exile in California because her beloved Great Aunt Eva ha Salem, Massachusetts is an unusual town. And the Whitneys are the most unusual family in Salem. Their family roots in Salem go back hundreds of years. They fit right in with the eccentric witches, most of the Whitney women have the ability to sense bits of people's thoughts and see glimpses of the future when they look through a piece of lace. Towner Whitney is in her early thirties and she has just returned to Salem from her self imposed exile in California because her beloved Great Aunt Eva has disappeared. Towner fled to the west coast fifteen years before, running from the violence and grief that was part of her life as a teenager when she lost her twin sister, Lyndley. She is a damaged soul and Salem is the last place she wants to be. Her memories of her life in Salem are sketchy and she struggles to put the pieces of her childhood together while dealing with people from the past that she is not prepared to see. Eva was in her eighties but still swam in the ocean every day. When her body is found out in the water it's hard to believe that she drowned on her own. The police suspect her estranged son-in-law, Cal. While married to Emma, Eva's daughter, Cal beat her so badly that Emma was left blind and mentally impaired. Somehow he managed to escape any legal penalty and now he is an Evangelist with a very warped following. Towner's return and Eva's death rip open the past and send everyone concerned reeling. This is a book about the damage that people do to each other and the incredible lengths that the human soul will go to in order to survive. At times haunting, heartbreaking, mystical and magical, it has an ending that will surprise you and show you the healing power of love. ...more I wanted to read The Lace Reader because it is set in Salem, Massachusetts, and it's about a family of women with the gift of reading fortunes in lace. Each chapter starts with a little excepts from \"The Lace Reader's Guide\" about how to make or read lace as we follow Towner Whitney's return to Salem after a decade's absense following the suicide of her twin sister. Towner returns when her great-aunt Eva, a gifted lace reader, goes missing. Towner has the gift, too, as well as hallucinations and I wanted to read The Lace Reader because it is set in Salem, Massachusetts, and it's about a family of women with the gift of reading fortunes in lace. Each chapter starts with a little excepts from \"The Lace Reader's Guide\" about how to make or read lace as we follow Towner Whitney's return to Salem after a decade's absense following the suicide of her twin sister. Towner returns when her great-aunt Eva, a gifted lace reader, goes missing. Towner has the gift, too, as well as hallucinations and visions and dreams and memory gaps from the shock therapy she endured after her sister's death. The women support each other: her mother May, an agoraphobic who runs a shelter for abused women on an island she never leaves; her aunt Emma, blind and frail after beatings at the hand of her ex-husband Cal, a born-again Christian and leader of a violent anti-witchcraft cult. Cal and his \"Calvinists\" have it in for the Whitney women, and Salem's witch trials, which have drawn tourists to the town, aren't just historical fact in this book. It's a complex psychological drama that has plenty of interior and exterior action. I'm still chewing on it, actually, and I think I will be for awhile. \"There are mystics and there are mechanists,\" she said, \"and they see things with different eyes.\" ...more really enjoyed it, particularly with the different narratives There were a couple of things that drew me to this book -- the idea of lace reading as a way of prophecy or fortune telling of sorts, the setting of Salem and the islands nearby, a hint at mystery and supernatural things. But I should have been warned off by two things. First the friend who gave this to me gave it a lukewarm recommendation, and second, the author comes flat out and tells us in the beginning that the narrator should not be trusted. I guess if there had been more of the lace-readi There were a couple of things that drew me to this book -- the idea of lace reading as a way of prophecy or fortune telling of sorts, the setting of Salem and the islands nearby, a hint at mystery and supernatural things. But I should have been warned off by two things. First the friend who gave this to me gave it a lukewarm recommendation, and second, the author comes flat out and tells us in the beginning that the narrator should not be trusted. I guess if there had been more of the lace-reading, and less of the dysfunctional family traumas and psychoses I might have felt more drawn to it. I felt, at times, I needed to get out my PDR to look up the meds the main character was or had ingested. The backstory was tragic and painful, including a dead sister (or maybe not), cults (or maybe not), battered women, and such. The mystical and mythical Eva was my favorite character, mostly because of her tea room and readings, but the locale also is a strong contender for favorite character. The autor did give me a vivid picture of the location, and for that I thank her. But as to the story, I'm left with a somewhat dissatisfied taste in my mouth, a feeling of being tricked and investing time in something that is far too disturbing for my tastes. On a less icky side note, I did jot down the main ingredients for the tea Eva made for Towner, to try sometime: It's a blend of black tea and cayenne and cinnamon, with just a hint of cilantro , and with some other ingredients she won't reveal to me. It has to be drunk strong and very hot, and Eva tells me it is too spicy for some of her older customers. ...more This book is being highly acclaimed by just about everyone who has read it. I will be no exception. This is an excellent read and more importantly it is well written. The theme and story of the book will be of more interest to women than to men, although I can honestly say that I thoroughly enjoyed the book. The setting is Salem, Massachusetts; you remember where they had the Witch Trials in the 1600's. Salem is still smothered in the mystic of the occult. Some inhabitants are because they believe This book is being highly acclaimed by just about everyone who has read it. I will be no exception. This is an excellent read and more importantly it is well written. The theme and story of the book will be of more interest to women than to men, although I can honestly say that I thoroughly enjoyed the book. The setting is Salem, Massachusetts; you remember where they had the Witch Trials in the 1600's. Salem is still smothered in the mystic of the occult. Some inhabitants are because they believe in the occult, while others embrace the occult for the monetary rewards of the tourist trade. The Whitney women can read the future in lace. Towner, or Sophya, Whitney has vowed never to use her \"gift\". She is haunted by her past and the death of her twin sister Lyndley. She has left Salem and was never going to return home, that was until he favortie Aunt Eva disappears. When she returns she is faced with her past, he Aunts disappearance, he estrangement from her mother, and her Aunt Emma who is a battered wife. Emma's husband, Cal, is a born again Christian. Her life becomes even more complicated when the detective, John Rafferty, who is assigned to her Aunts disappearance, becomes romantically involved with her. \"The Lace Reader\" has just about everything in it a reader could want, mystery, romance, deceit, and the occult. ...more I'm not sure how to review this book. It was a ride - sometimes confusing and bumpy. At other times it was mezmerising. I loved the characters. Each had unique but complex personalities. The book begins with Towner Whitney stating that she is crazy and that she lies. She returns to Salem when she learns that her great aunt is missing. In no time, she is immersed in the confusing family dynamics that surrounded her as a child. To me, the story is about perceptions, from the lace readings the Whit I'm not sure how to review this book. It was a ride - sometimes confusing and bumpy. At other times it was mezmerising. I loved the characters. Each had unique but complex personalities. The book begins with Towner Whitney stating that she is crazy and that she lies. She returns to Salem when she learns that her great aunt is missing. In no time, she is immersed in the confusing family dynamics that surrounded her as a child. To me, the story is about perceptions, from the lace readings the Whitney women did to the observations of the local detective. Most of all, it centered around Towner's perceptions of her past and of the present. Interestingly enough, whenever the story was told from Towner's point of view, it was told in present tense. Whenever the story was from another character's point of view, it was in past tense. This created a sense of things being off kilter and increased the tension in the story. The ending has a surprising, even shocking, twist. I have no doubt this story will haunt me for a long time to come. ...more So I was skeptical about this book at first. After the hype of the NPR interview, the beginning wasn't what I expected (even after Barry read the first page on the radio). I think it took about 40 pages to get into the book, until dead relatives started talking to the main character, Towner. The book then flows into an expression of her psychopathology/psychic ability. That's when the book started to give that sensation of perspective shifting, of everything being slightly off-kilter. That laste So I was skeptical about this book at first. After the hype of the NPR interview, the beginning wasn't what I expected (even after Barry read the first page on the radio). I think it took about 40 pages to get into the book, until dead relatives started talking to the main character, Towner. The book then flows into an expression of her psychopathology/psychic ability. That's when the book started to give that sensation of perspective shifting, of everything being slightly off-kilter. That lasted until Barry changed narrators. Moving from the main character to the primary love interest was an interesting choice. I don't think I liked it, not that he wasn't a neat character, but I never got enough sense of history to be able to fully embody his perspective. Plus it was just jolting. I was glad that she sent us back to Towner. The end was strange too. It was a little too Fight Club for me, a little too much coming out of the fog into the *clear*, assumably better light of reality. I don't think it was a space I wanted to occupy. ...more Who doesn't love witches? It's crazy considering what we have seen in movies and what we have read in books these days. From Alice Hoffman's Practical Magic to Philip Pullman's The Golden Compass, their powers are just awesome! And NO- I haven't been to Salem nor have I tried practicing witchcraft. But Lace Reading? Who was paid to do this?! This actually got me to reading the entire book. How are they going to discover your past and foretell the future through a lace. Yes ladies and gents! A LA Who doesn't love witches? It's crazy considering what we have seen in movies and what we have read in books these days. From Alice Hoffman's Practical Magic to Philip Pullman's The Golden Compass, their powers are just awesome! And NO- I haven't been to Salem nor have I tried practicing witchcraft. But Lace Reading? Who was paid to do this?! This actually got me to reading the entire book. How are they going to discover your past and foretell the future through a lace. Yes ladies and gents! A LACE! What makes this book an A+ Grade is aside from the main story where the protagonist (Towner/Sophya) tells you her lies, it's also giving you a glimpse of how these women (the Circle as they call it) reads through the lace. And YES \"the lack of a cohesive clear familial structure and Towner's frequent sick spells and confusion are dizzyingly distracting from the plot. The resulting feeling is like reading a vortex.\" But this has never stopped me from reading Haruki Murakami's books which are at times confusing and other times greatly close to home. Highly Recommended! ...more This book did a whammy on me. I finished it about a month ago, but I still find myself thinking about it in random moments. Supposedly, the author dreamt the ending, and I totally believe it. A young woman returns to Salem, Mass after the death of her beloved Great Aunt. The Aunt's death is a mystery, and Towner Whitney works with the police and her family in order to find out what happened. What the police don't know (or refuse to acknowledge) is that the Whitney women can read a person's histor This book did a whammy on me. I finished it about a month ago, but I still find myself thinking about it in random moments. Supposedly, the author dreamt the ending, and I totally believe it. A young woman returns to Salem, Mass after the death of her beloved Great Aunt. The Aunt's death is a mystery, and Towner Whitney works with the police and her family in order to find out what happened. What the police don't know (or refuse to acknowledge) is that the Whitney women can read a person's history or future in lace. The police also don't know what to make of Towner - is she healed or is she still suffering from the mental health issues that drove her away from New England? Just see if this book doesn't grab you. ...more Jackie says: The imagination of Brunonia Barry seems limitless--from it she creates a whole history and methodology of divination (lace reading is her brainchild), then weaves it through a complex family tale full of surprises. This book is extremely difficult to put down once you dive into it--the cast of characters could keep a book club busy through many pots of coffee. Especially the late in the game major plot twist and what it means for all of the characters. It's set in modern Salem, with Jackie says: The imagination of Brunonia Barry seems limitless--from it she creates a whole history and methodology of divination (lace reading is her brainchild), then weaves it through a complex family tale full of surprises. This book is extremely difficult to put down once you dive into it--the cast of characters could keep a book club busy through many pots of coffee. Especially the late in the game major plot twist and what it means for all of the characters. It's set in modern Salem, with all of it's newagey, witchcraft-as-tourism quirkiness. In fact, Barry originally self published this book for limited distribution in that area. It's not surprising that it caught the eye of both Hollywood and the publishing industry. ...more<---C>Brunonia Barry</---C>", "Title": "The Lace Reader"},
