{"Comments": "I saw this was offered as a kindle-unlimited and the blurb had me sold. The pros: * It was a great story on forbidden love * An action packed plot * I liked all of the Sci-Fi aspects offered in this read - the world was defiantly one of a kind and I liked that The cons: * The title of this book, and the cover give it no justice at all * I hated all the characters names but the ones that annoyed me the most were the 2 male leads names. Comron and Crausin - It may just be me, but when I read a book and I saw this was offered as a kindle-unlimited and the blurb had me sold. The pros: * It was a great story on forbidden love * An action packed plot * I liked all of the Sci-Fi aspects offered in this read - the world was defiantly one of a kind and I liked that The cons: * The title of this book, and the cover give it no justice at all * I hated all the characters names but the ones that annoyed me the most were the 2 male leads names. Comron and Crausin - It may just be me, but when I read a book and 2 of the main characters have a name that start and end with the same letter, it throws me off. I read really fast, so I kept having to go back and assure which character said what, etc. * Comron was rough at times with the heroine. He wasn\u2019t physically violent towards her in the sense of hitting her but the constant grabbing, and aggressive behavior had me losing respect for him. He \"grabbed\" her quite a few times where she expressed it hurting.<---F> Ummmm no</---F>. Plus he was overly forceful during sex,<---M> sometimes she liked it</---M>, but other times she made comments about it not being pleasant. At one time he even mentioned that now that they were together, he was going to have to teach her to \"meet his needs\" in the bedroom. Hell, she was already giving him some on a regular basis, sometimes at her own expense but he wanted it to be more hostile? Again, No. This made his character come across as very selfish to me. During sex he only seemed concerned with himself - It didn\u2019t have that hot passion feel to it but instead him being overly demanding and showing no concern for the heroines needs. * The father and son (<---B>Comron and Crausin</---B>) shared their women - some was through a mental link, but others were straight up menages.......and our \"hero\" liked his sex to pretty much to be violent and rough......just the thought of a father and son sharing women grossed me the fuck out. * The ending left much to be desire - I found it unsatisfying. Overall, I still enjoyed this book. I did like the writing style even though I wasn\u2019t a fan of the hero. The word building, character depth, and storyline execution was very well done. It did have an insta-love feel to it, but in the end I did like the hero and heroine as a couple. Ill still check out the next book in this series. ...more Long after I put this book down, I just couldn\u2019t stop thinking about it. The rich, well-developed characters will stay with you like dear friends. You\u2019ll want togo back and re-read this amazing story once you discover all the gasp-worthy secrets revealed toward the end. I know I\u2019ll be reading it again and again until the author puts out book two. Mmmmm.... I was expecting much more.... The backstory was interesting with all the intrigue and ruling houses and fighting with everything for supremacy\u2026 it reminded me of the Dune universe (without sand and the worms\u2026 hihihi)! But, because there\u2019s a but , the relationships were over the top! The bad guys (and girls) were BAD and the good guys (and girls) are GOOD ! Our hero, Comron, is a complete\u2026 idiot! A sword wielding IDIOT !!! He\u2019s supposedly a (view spoiler) [clone (hide spoiler) ] of his evil fathe Mmmmm.... I was expecting much more.... The backstory was interesting with all the intrigue and ruling houses and fighting with everything for supremacy\u2026 it reminded me of the Dune universe (without sand and the worms\u2026 hihihi)! But, because there\u2019s a but , the relationships were over the top! The bad guys (and girls) were BAD and the good guys (and girls) are GOOD ! Our hero, Comron, is a complete\u2026 idiot! A sword wielding IDIOT !!! He\u2019s supposedly a (view spoiler) [clone (hide spoiler) ] of his evil father, who is also referred to as blood brother (talk about twisted familiar relationship!!!), and his mind is frequently invaded by his father\u2019s evilness\u2026 and he\u2019s forced to do the most disgusting things (view spoiler) [like rape-sharing/murdering women (hide spoiler) ] . He\u2019s also overbearing, spoilt, aristocratic ASS !!! Our heroine, Vaush (by the way, I continues to hear in my head her name pronounced as Wash !!!), is from his mortal enemy\u2019s family, and she\u2019s all the good there is! She\u2019s gracious, compassionate, sweet, good-doer! And she\u2019s also so very STUPID and she doesn\u2019t know what\u2019s happening with Comron\u2026 why is he bad and then good all of sudden\u2026 \u2026 because she knows that he\u2019s such a wonderful guy deep, deep down\u2026 Well, as you can see I didn\u2019t enjoy all the overwhelming fairy-tale sweetness (it made my tooth ache)!!! They were running around together (while he hit/rape her one moment and hugged/made love to her the next) declaring their undying love to each other, while fighting insurmountable dangers to get her to a planet where she\u2019s take her rightful place (view spoiler) [as THE supreme empress (hide spoiler) ] !!! So, I\u2019ll stop here\u2026 please forgive me\u2026 I cannot go on\u2026 [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This author has a captivating style of writing that grabs you from the beginning and has you hurling through the pages to continue the essence of this thrilling odyssey. The author expresses her writing talent with such vividness and finesse, it almost seems as if she's at the scene and simply writing down the events as they occur. As mysterious events are unraveled throughout the story, you begin to view the elements of love and commitment from a different perspective. You become so engulfed in This author has a captivating style of writing that grabs you from the beginning and has you hurling through the pages to continue the essence of this thrilling odyssey. The author expresses her writing talent with such vividness and finesse, it almost seems as if she's at the scene and simply writing down the events as they occur. As mysterious events are unraveled throughout the story, you begin to view the elements of love and commitment from a different perspective. You become so engulfed in the story and the world she's created, that you begin to ask yourself, if this really is a fictitious story, could love be so dangerous, is it that far from reality? Definitely a must read! ...more \u201cThrone of Novoxos\u201d had me glued to my bed for hours. As I kept turning the pages, I was drawn to another world beyond your regular science fiction. I love the fact that it\u2019s more than that - it\u2019s a hodge podge of topics ranging from Sci-fi, Romance, Action, Adventure, Suspense, Space Travel, Extrasensory powers. <---A>Tyler Chase</---A> definitely hit the spot with this one! Such brilliant writing! The descriptions and dialogues are so well written I felt like I was right in the middle of the scenes watching \u201cThrone of Novoxos\u201d had me glued to my bed for hours. As I kept turning the pages, I was drawn to another world beyond your regular science fiction. I love the fact that it\u2019s more than that - it\u2019s a hodge podge of topics ranging from Sci-fi, Romance, Action, Adventure, Suspense, Space Travel, Extrasensory powers. Tyler Chase definitely hit the spot with this one! Such brilliant writing! The descriptions and dialogues are so well written I felt like I was right in the middle of the scenes watching as the story unfolds. I always love a good romance story, and Chase did an excellent work taking this novel to a whole new level. The romance between Comron and Vaush was beautifully executed. The warrior in them can clearly be seen even through the toughest circumstances. I was moved beyond doubt that true love can indeed conquer anything. I am in awe really, and still feel goosebumps on my skin as my imagination fires up with every turn of the page. When a novel gives me this much impression and the chance to get my imagination all fired up, I know I have found a keeper! I also believe we found the next Box Office Hit movie! As I turned to the last few pages, Comron\u2019s scenes filled me with so much curiosity. I am impressed with Chaiyse' and Bhedrus\u2019 scheme putting all of them right in the lion\u2019s den so they can be right where they\u2019re supposed to be. I definitely can\u2019t wait to read Tyler Chase\u2019s next novel. ...more This book really surprised me, in a good way! I judged the book by the title, first of all, and I expected some sort of Game of Thrones knock off, but it is actually really well written and has a very unique storyline, full of action and love. While this is clearly a fiction book, it is worth noting that the author has clearly put a lot of thought, research and effort into this story, and it actually gets better and better throughout the book. What I really love about this book is how it is acti This book really surprised me, in a good way! I judged the book by the title, first of all, and I expected some sort of Game of Thrones knock off, but it is actually really well written and has a very unique storyline, full of action and love. While this is clearly a fiction book, it is worth noting that the author has clearly put a lot of thought, research and effort into this story, and it actually gets better and better throughout the book. What I really love about this book is how it is action filled from the first page to the last - so many books bore me to death for the first ten pages, but this book is full of amazing action scenes, as well as very detailed love scenes. You really get to know the two main characters, Comron and Vaush. Without spoiling anything, I think it is fair to say that I definitely did not see the end coming at all. I also love the mixture of medieval gestures and language, mixed with futuristic space-ships and warfare. It is like a mixture of all my favorite shows/books, yet it is incredibly unique and it keeps you reading chapter after chapter without being bored or wanting to do other things instead. I think one of the reasons for this is the amazing change the main character Comron goes through, and at times I was wondering if this book wasn't written by a man. The author has definitely got a great understanding of the male mind. My favorite part of this book was a scene where the main character Comron was tortured by his evil father for basically following his hearts desires. My least favorite scene was probably the end, just because I wanted it to go on for longer! All in all, this is a great book for anyone who is into a well written love story, set in the future, but very influenced by the past. I can only recommended it! ...more If you are looking for an exciting tale of adventure, intrigue, betrayal, and even love, <+++>Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos</+++> is the perfect book for you. This book captivates the reader from page one and doesn't let go even at the very end. I hope that we will see more books in this series, as there are far more stories to tell. Author Tyler Chase takes you into the world of futuristic Sci-Fi, while making you feel as if you are reading about 18th Century royal kingdoms. The story revolves ar If you are looking for an exciting tale of adventure, intrigue, betrayal, and even love, <+++>Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos</+++> is the perfect book for you. This book captivates the reader from page one and doesn't let go even at the very end. I hope that we will see more books in this series, as there are far more stories to tell. Author Tyler Chase takes you into the world of futuristic Sci-Fi, while making you feel as if you are reading about 18th Century royal kingdoms. The story revolves around Comron, Crown Prince of Nethic and Vaush, of the royal Bastionli family. These two families are sworn enemies and will do anything to keep the other from gaining more power. Comron and Vaush find themselves thrown together after a tragic accident, which was meant to take one of their lives. While they are sworn enemies, they find themselves falling deeply in love and unable to satisfy their longings because of their family's hatred of each other. The couple faces many obstacles on their journey to be together, the worst possibly being Crausin, Comron's father. Crausin has his own demons, which he refuses to face. This is a character you will love to hate, while you try to understand his reasoning for controlling his son. Sci-Fi fans will love the adventure and imagination that Chase brings to life, while romance lovers will become charmed by the couples struggle to be together against their family's wishes. This book is a must read. It will keep you turning pages until the very end. ...more Fabulous book! This book is filled with adventure and romance, which I enjoy a lot. This was the first time that I had read a book by Tyler Chase and what a great author he is. I loved the storyline and the characters. The book is also very well-written. When I first started to read it, I knew that it would be a book that I wouldn't be able to set down. I never did and I ended up finishing the book in one setting. The cover is really what drew me to the book, it gave the promise of adventure and Fabulous book! This book is filled with adventure and romance, which I enjoy a lot. This was the first time that I had read a book by Tyler Chase and what a great author he is. I loved the storyline and the characters. The book is also very well-written. When I first started to read it, I knew that it would be a book that I wouldn't be able to set down. I never did and I ended up finishing the book in one setting. The cover is really what drew me to the book, it gave the promise of adventure and there was a ton of it. Once I read the description I decided to give the book a try. Comron is willing to go through extreme measures in order to get what he desires and he will not stop until he has conquered all. He encounters Vaush and he falls madly in love with her, but little does he realize that his enemies are trying to destroy his kingdom through her. Comron and his dark secrets come about. His family secrets are also out and haunting him. Comron is torn between his love for Vaush and trying to save his kingdom; it\u2019s a very difficult situation for him. He is a heir and won't let anything come between him and his kingdom. It was very interesting to see Comron balance his love for Vaush and try to protect his kingdom from the enemies. Sometimes the enemies within are more dangerous than the enemies on the outside. Read this one, it is worth it. ...more \"Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxus\u201d is the first book that introduces us to the fantastical world of author Tyler Chase. It is imaginative pulls no punches in drawing from almost every available literary element available. This is a rare novel that I thought had almost everything, from heart pounding battle scenes, to romantic love scenes, to twisted (and I mean twisted) family relationships, magical/supernatural elements, danger\u2026 it\u2019s hard not to find something you like. There are dark se \"Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxus\u201d is the first book that introduces us to the fantastical world of author Tyler Chase. It is imaginative pulls no punches in drawing from almost every available literary element available. This is a rare novel that I thought had almost everything, from heart pounding battle scenes, to romantic love scenes, to twisted (and I mean twisted) family relationships, magical/supernatural elements, danger\u2026 it\u2019s hard not to find something you like. There are dark secrets revealed throughout, and nothing is predictable or what you think will happen. Kept me turning the pages late into the night! One thing I\u2019ll say is that I was impressed with how well the author Tyler Chase wrote it, there were almost none of the mistakes I frequently see in new writers (slow beginnings, adverb abuse in dialogue tags, telling v. showing, etc.). Ms. Chase writes like a seasoned pro and I\u2019m looking forward to the next book in this series. We can\u2019t be left with this ending for much longer! ...more Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos is one of the best books I have ever read. I usually don't read science fiction/fantasy books but I gave this one a try. As soon as I started reading it, I just kept going! Tyler Chase's style of writing kept my interest from the beginning. Chase is an amazing author. Plus this book packs romance and action-adventure. I'm so glad I read it. This book was a great mix of romance, fantasy, and action. I loved the author's style of writing and the way it really brought out the retro romance novel experience. On top of that, the Comron Vaush relationship kept me engaged and interested long after the last page. This is definitely not a book I'll forget soon--a great read to end the summer with! I didn't want to like this book. A few pages in, I wondered why I was reading it, when there didn't seem to be any clear genre in mind. But, I kept reading, and before I knew it, I was hooked. Like a train wreck you can't look away from, I had to keep reading to find out exactly what the heck was really going on with the characters in the story. The main characters were in turns repugnant and compelling, particularly Comron. He vacillated between misogynistic pig and hopeless romantic, and I foun I didn't want to like this book. A few pages in, I wondered why I was reading it, when there didn't seem to be any clear genre in mind. But, I kept reading, and before I knew it, I was hooked. Like a train wreck you can't look away from, I had to keep reading to find out exactly what the heck was really going on with the characters in the story. The main characters were in turns repugnant and compelling, particularly Comron. He vacillated between misogynistic pig and hopeless romantic, and I found his character flaws endearing. Vaush was a little less defined, in my opinion, but I loved her tenacity. I kept seeing Kathleen Turner in the \"Romancing the Stone\" film when I read her...she was feisty! I had a bit of a hard time keeping up with the political aspects of the story...partly because the universe of the book was so vast. I did enjoy the twists and turns, particularly the last third of the book, when creepy revelations are made and certain horrid characters show themselves to be truly evil. There was a lot of aggression against the female characters, but it was in keeping with the twisted psyche of the male antagonist. This was a surprisingly good read, and I look forward to seeing how the author continues the story. I was hoping for a happy ending, and it looks like it could still happen, but I guess I'll have to wait for the next book to find out. ...more Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos is a unique story full of love and war, masterfully pieced together by author Tyler Chase. Comron and Vaush, the two main characters, capture the heart of readers from the beginning of the story and keep you enraptured through every surprise, and trust me, there are many twists and turns in store. Warning: there are very graphic love scenes that will leave you feigning over Prince Comron, keeping you hooked and committed till the final page. These scenes a Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos is a unique story full of love and war, masterfully pieced together by author Tyler Chase. Comron and Vaush, the two main characters, capture the heart of readers from the beginning of the story and keep you enraptured through every surprise, and trust me, there are many twists and turns in store. Warning: there are very graphic love scenes that will leave you feigning over Prince Comron, keeping you hooked and committed till the final page. These scenes are balanced out by epic battles and wars, full of danger. Throw in the psychological frenzy of the Van Laven men and you will never be disappointed! Each page was another thrill and another wild fantasy. We follow the characters as they grow together and separate, eventually stumbling into a secret so big that it could literally lead to life or death. Just when you think you can predict what will happen next, Chase reveals a new dimension of the story line, accumulating into an epic enthralling adventure. Forbidden love and political struggles are the main themes that run through the pages of the story. I could not put this book down and can't wait for more of the Van Laven Chronicles! ...more I would've given this a higher rating but I felt it misrepresented itself. I thought it was a sci-fi/action/Game of Thrones/Star Wars type deal. It is a romance novel, period. It's a harlequin style romance set in a sci-fi galaxy. Guys, if you think this is primarily an action/sci-fi piece you're in for a shock. Male or female, if you typically enjoy romance/harlequin romance style novels with a sci-fi bent, then you might enjoy this. But make no mistake, it's chic-lit romance first and foremost I would've given this a higher rating but I felt it misrepresented itself. I thought it was a sci-fi/action/Game of Thrones/Star Wars type deal. It is a romance novel, period. It's a harlequin style romance set in a sci-fi galaxy. Guys, if you think this is primarily an action/sci-fi piece you're in for a shock. Male or female, if you typically enjoy romance/harlequin romance style novels with a sci-fi bent, then you might enjoy this. But make no mistake, it's chic-lit romance first and foremost. If you're primarily into science fiction look elsewhere. This book is Fabio on a Star Wars poster. You've been warned. ...more I so love a good space opera filled with space and land battles, impossible relationship and interstellar politics. And I do have to say that the THRONE OF NOVOXOS has all of those and more. When I first started reading the book and met Comron I was immediately taken back to Dune but that impression didn't last for long. While there are politics, they seem to be more approachable then the ones in the old sci-fi standby. And to tell you the truth, I found Comron to be a bit of an ass. I know that I so love a good space opera filled with space and land battles, impossible relationship and interstellar politics. And I do have to say that the THRONE OF NOVOXOS has all of those and more. When I first started reading the book and met Comron I was immediately taken back to Dune but that impression didn't last for long. While there are politics, they seem to be more approachable then the ones in the old sci-fi standby. And to tell you the truth, I found Comron to be a bit of an ass. I know that a good portion of that is his upbringing by his insane father but still. The character that I really liked is the one that Comron fell in love with Vaush. She is down to earth and just wants to make the world, or in this case worlds, a better place for everyone to live. So of course she saves Comron even though their families are deadly enemies because that is the type of person she is. I really enjoyed THRONE OF NOVOXOS with its fast pacing, interesting characters, an unauthorized love and danger around every turn. I do think that my readers who enjoy space opera will enjoy it. There are a few sex scenes but nothing too graphic so this book would work for older teens as well as adults. *** I received this book at no charge from NetGalley in exchange for a fair and honest review. All opinions expressed within are my own. ...more Another example of me judging a book by its cover/blurb. I really need to stop doing that because I always end up making a fool out of myself when talking through the review with my husband\u2026.sigh. This is a Romeo and Juliet type love story coupled with some good old-fashioned science fiction and fantasy elements mixed in. The only way that it differs from Romeo and Juliet is that Comron and Vaush do not die a star cross lovers death. They come close a few times but they don\u2019t die. Comron and his f Another example of me judging a book by its cover/blurb. I really need to stop doing that because I always end up making a fool out of myself when talking through the review with my husband\u2026.sigh. This is a Romeo and Juliet type love story coupled with some good old-fashioned science fiction and fantasy elements mixed in. The only way that it differs from Romeo and Juliet is that Comron and Vaush do not die a star cross lovers death. They come close a few times but they don\u2019t die. Comron and his father, Crausin, have one of the most complex and, dare I say, disgusting relationships in the books that I have read in the past few years. They telepathic, which was fascinating, especially something major was revealed to Vaush from Comron towards the end of the story. They didn\u2019t use their telepathy to always talk to each other. Crausin used it to take over while Comron is having sex. So, a telepathic threesome. They also shared their women in the physical sense too. A father/son threesome\u2026.gag. I should add that Crausin is the Grand Duke of the planet Nethic and Comron is the Crown Prince. So yeah\u2026.lol. Vaush is the youngest daughter of Larrs Bastionli, the Duke of Tir-Laros and Comron and Crausin\u2019s mortal enemy. She is a woman who loves nothing more than to stay out of her father\u2019s path and do what she loves\u2026.helping others less fortunate than her. Vaush and Comron\u2019s paths cross when the transport that she is on (that is also carrying members a delegation that is selling security technology and the investors interested in it.) is attacked by a terrorist. A bomb explodes, causing the transport to crash. Vaush is largely uninjured (we do find out why later on in the book) but Comron is gravely injured. Vaush finds him in the wreckage, discovers who he is and decides to save him (remember, their planets are mortal enemies and they are honor bound to kill each other). Comron returns the favor after a panther attacks Vaush in the jungle. While they are trekking towards the east coast, and hopefully rescue, Vaush and Comron fall in love and do the dirty. They vow to keep seeing each other, on the down low, after they are rescued. Once they are rescued, a huge secret about Vaush comes to light. She is the legal heir of the Emperor\u2019s throne. The Emperor took her mother as his first wife, much to the dismay of his ex-wife and their children. When her mother got pregnant, she disappeared and was assumed to have died\u2026.this child along with her. Which wasn\u2019t the case. Her transport was waylaid by Larrs Bastionli, her mother severely injured but kept alive to deliver Vaush and then was either killed or died after her birth. Larrs kept Vaush and raised her as his own child but with it always in the back of his head that one day, when she old enough, that she will become the Empress and Tir-Laros will have the backing of the Empress. Only, it didn\u2019t quite turn out that way. There is murder and mayhem once her secret is leaked. The only true ally that Vaush has is Comron but even that is questioned when huge secrets from his past are revealed to her. I never thought that I would ever say this in a science fiction/fantasy but the sex scenes are insanely good. Each sex scene was better than the next. I loved it!! The ending of the book threw me for a loop and made me question Comron and his loyalty to Vaush. There were other instances that made me go \u201cEh\u201d but when I read what I read at the end, I went \u201cOoooooo\u2026.no he didn\u2019t!!\u201d I am actually going to buy the 2nd book because I want to know what happens next. **I chose to leave this review after reading an advance reader copy** ...more Wow\u2026 what an insane book! Holy bananas!! Okay, I don\u2019t even know where to begin because so much happens and I don\u2019t want to give anything away\u2026 \u201cVan Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos by author Tyler Chase is one of the most original and just flat out interesting fantasy/ science fiction novels I\u2019ve ever read. I liked it for so many different reasons, first the writing was stellar. The strong word choice and fluid prose makes it a very easy book to sink into. There are enough descriptions where Wow\u2026 what an insane book! Holy bananas!! Okay, I don\u2019t even know where to begin because so much happens and I don\u2019t want to give anything away\u2026 \u201cVan Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos by author Tyler Chase is one of the most original and just flat out interesting fantasy/ science fiction novels I\u2019ve ever read. I liked it for so many different reasons, first the writing was stellar. The strong word choice and fluid prose makes it a very easy book to sink into. There are enough descriptions where you can picture everything perfectly, but not so much that it bogs down the pacing. I wish I knew what the characters looked like better though, because some of them I had hard time keeping straight. I liked that there were things I haven\u2019t seen in other books like this before (the psychic 3-way? Haha), and it just felt more \u201cintelligent\u201d than others I\u2019ve read, I think because of the strategies and planning and cat and mousish behavior and the Comron/Crausin dynamic (freaky!) This almost seems like it could be a movie or a miniseries\u2026 Looking forward to the next one as soon as it\u2019s out! ...more Loved it! This book has had me in its grip for the last 2 days and wouldn\u2019t let me go. Every character has been perfectly created to mesh together and bring all nuances of their parts of the story to life. Mr. Chase is a magician of the written word because this world and the people in it that he has created for us are amazing and fantastical. The internal battles of both Comron and Vausch are so perfectly depicted by this author that I felt every moment of their pain and their joy. I don\u2019t thin Loved it! This book has had me in its grip for the last 2 days and wouldn\u2019t let me go. Every character has been perfectly created to mesh together and bring all nuances of their parts of the story to life. Mr. Chase is a magician of the written word because this world and the people in it that he has created for us are amazing and fantastical. The internal battles of both Comron and Vausch are so perfectly depicted by this author that I felt every moment of their pain and their joy. I don\u2019t think I have ever been so emotionally involved in any book before, I cried for them, I laughed with them and I was very afraid for them in a lot of parts of this story. The twists that Mr. Chase throws at you are mind bending and with just enough intrigue it keeps you from putting the book down. I could not recommend this book any higher, if you read nothing else this year, Please Read This One!!!! And this is just his first of the series, I can't wait for the next! Thank you ...more Wasn't bad really, fun actually. If you are into insta-love, enemies to lovers tropes, alpha-males bordering on the insane (literally), uncomfortable (understatement) father-son relationships, (equitable) violence, gallons of lovesick angst, control issues and (a mild case of) abandonment panic, this may be your thing. The science fiction/fantasy setting is nice, there are mature themes and adult scenes, lots of action, there is a plot and the narrative flows very smoothly, only a little deus ex Wasn't bad really, fun actually. If you are into insta-love, enemies to lovers tropes, alpha-males bordering on the insane (literally), uncomfortable (understatement) father-son relationships, (equitable) violence, gallons of lovesick angst, control issues and (a mild case of) abandonment panic, this may be your thing. The science fiction/fantasy setting is nice, there are mature themes and adult scenes, lots of action, there is a plot and the narrative flows very smoothly, only a little deus ex machina twist caused some eyebrows wiggling, but nothing serious. I also appreciate that while the story is open, this book doesn't end with a cliffhanger. It's a turn-pager and I'll probably read the sequel. \u201cShields activated,\u201d yes!! Surely more than I expected from an indie romance book, way more. \u201cStop thinking with your cock and see the truth of what I\u2019m saying.\u201d ...more review up soon More reviews (and no fluff) on the blog http://surrealtalvi.wordpress.com/ Admittedly, I had a hard time with this novel. Both the plot and the writing trod well worn tropes without really utilizing the sci fi setting. Characters were flat as cardboard, with the evil being eeeevil and the good so over-the-top angelic that I'd expect little birds to brush their hair in the morning. Alpha overbearing male lead, sweet and innocent (with a hidden past!) heroine, and a lot of undeveloped extras make More reviews (and no fluff) on the blog http://surrealtalvi.wordpress.com/ Admittedly, I had a hard time with this novel. Both the plot and the writing trod well worn tropes without really utilizing the sci fi setting. Characters were flat as cardboard, with the evil being eeeevil and the good so over-the-top angelic that I'd expect little birds to brush their hair in the morning. Alpha overbearing male lead, sweet and innocent (with a hidden past!) heroine, and a lot of undeveloped extras make up the bulk of this story. The writing was especially bland - within the first few pages we get clunky and cliche'd sentences such as these: \"I cannot be certain until we've interrogated the survivors. If House Bastionli is behind this, they will pay dearly for their meddling.\" \"He jumped up onto the execution platform and retrieved the ostako swords still dripping with blood and bits of flesh.\" \"...he stood nearly a head taller than most men and possessed a fierce look in his striking green eyes, while his raven-black hair contrasted sharply against his fair skin...\" Pretty much most of the plot is telegraphed and there aren't any real surprises. Even by idealistic standards, this is fairy tale fluffy with some rather violent/aggressive sex thrown in. The sci fi aspects serve only so we can have royalty but not with the usual medieval fantasy trapping. They don't really add to the story at all since the story is very generic. Undemanding readers of the romance genre will find this to be a nice little time killer. But readers of the sci fi genre especially will likely be frustrated by the lack of depth and nuance. ...more Tyler Chase, the author of this book is an amazing writer. His brilliance is shown within the pages of this work. I love the way he starts mid-stream at the beginning of the story. A story that has tones somewhat akin though unrelated to the popular show \u201cGame of Thrones,\u201d or the true stories of \"The Crusades,\" only more original in concept and thought. It is interesting that Tyler includes two different aspects of spectators in an arena, some wanting to kill and others wanting to save a prisone Tyler Chase, the author of this book is an amazing writer. His brilliance is shown within the pages of this work. I love the way he starts mid-stream at the beginning of the story. A story that has tones somewhat akin though unrelated to the popular show \u201cGame of Thrones,\u201d or the true stories of \"The Crusades,\" only more original in concept and thought. It is interesting that Tyler includes two different aspects of spectators in an arena, some wanting to kill and others wanting to save a prisoner or prisoners from the sword. The emphasis on imagery in the story paints a clear picture for readers in which one begins to envision actually being present in the arena during these dramatic tribunals. Intriguing would be an understatement. Upon reading the book, I immediately became enthralled with the storyline which kept me wanting to continue to read on throughout the entire story. It is not often one finds such a suspenseful story these days. A story full of royalty, including Kings & Queens, prisoners and countrymen, guards and traitors. As a result, drama, espionage, and suspense are also quite present. All in all, this is a very well written and thought out storyline. I would highly recommend this book to all those who enjoy overwhelming drama and suspense in realms of royalty. The overall plot is powerfully beautiful though horrid with excellent imagery and justice which override the demise for the prisoners in the beginning. By the end of the story, the reader finds oneself questioning where one would stand if present at the time the prisoners were being beheaded. And, where one might go forth from this make believe city of pain and torture, forgiveness and rebirth. ...more When I started reading this book, I thought it would be another one of those where the two characters would meet and then fall in love and they would fight. I thought it would take a romantic turn and be a cliche!! BUT NO! I couldn't have been more wrong. This book had so much of depth and twists and turns at every moment. I was so hooked on to the book. It was lengthy, I must admit, but having said that, there were twists at every step which made me want to find out what happened next. The whole j When I started reading this book, I thought it would be another one of those where the two characters would meet and then fall in love and they would fight. I thought it would take a romantic turn and be a cliche!! BUT NO! I couldn't have been more wrong. This book had so much of depth and twists and turns at every moment. I was so hooked on to the book. It was lengthy, I must admit, but having said that, there were twists at every step which made me want to find out what happened next. The whole journey from their rescue to the events that transpire next, really brought a futuristic world in front of me. What I loved about this book was that the characters had back stories. Comron had a story about his creation. Crausin had his own mental problems and Vaush has a whole lot of problems coming her way. They all have a life apart from their royal duties. They have their vices, weaknesses and their pleasures. It made the characters so much more believable. I felt some connection to Vaush. She was an admirable character. She made me root for her and her relationship with Comron. I felt Comron and Crausin's insanity really scary and I felt the whole political upturn happening during the book to be interesting. I can't be more straightforward when I say, I WANT THE NEXT BOOK. I just want it now!! ...more A few months ago I read \u201cShadow Reign\u201d, Book 2 in the Van Laven Chronicles series. I had so much great fun reading it, despite the fact I started the series out of order, that the moment I finished reading it I knew I wanted to go back and read Book 1 of the series. And I wasn\u2019t disappointed at all. \u201cVan Laren Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos\u201d is a great read. The story-line is ever-evolving. It\u2019s deep in character and plot line development, full of suspense, sinister foreshadowing and shocking rev A few months ago I read \u201cShadow Reign\u201d, Book 2 in the Van Laven Chronicles series. I had so much great fun reading it, despite the fact I started the series out of order, that the moment I finished reading it I knew I wanted to go back and read Book 1 of the series. And I wasn\u2019t disappointed at all. \u201cVan Laren Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos\u201d is a great read. The story-line is ever-evolving. It\u2019s deep in character and plot line development, full of suspense, sinister foreshadowing and shocking revelations. The male lead is Prince Comron Van Laven of Nethic. Comron has to sacrifice himself so Nethic may gain a seat on the Imperial Reserve Board and a place among the Great Houses. He has been betrothed to a woman he doesn\u2019t love. He also has serious father issues. There are two powerful female characters in this book: Vaush Bastionli of Ti-Laros, and Lady Spira Eskridge. But who is his real love? And whose father is the diabolically insane one? A major twist of plot occurs in the middle of the book and no one is who they appear to be. If you get this book, then be prepared to lose some sleep because you won\u2019t be able to wait to find out what the answers to these questions are. ...more Van Laven Chronicles is one of the finest books I have ever read. I usually don't peruse science fiction/fantasy books, but I went for this one because it is really an exception among the fiction writings. I couldn't stop reading it once I started because the beginning of the story was so captivating that it kept me going on. Tyler Chase's style of writing is just amazing and it keeps the most interesting perspective of the topic above all. Chase is a professional author and knows how to write a Van Laven Chronicles is one of the finest books I have ever read. I usually don't peruse science fiction/fantasy books, but I went for this one because it is really an exception among the fiction writings. I couldn't stop reading it once I started because the beginning of the story was so captivating that it kept me going on. Tyler Chase's style of writing is just amazing and it keeps the most interesting perspective of the topic above all. Chase is a professional author and knows how to write a fiction. This book covers romance and action adventure side by side and keeps the story parts in great order. Overall, its a great book and I recommend it to readers of every age group. Great work Tyler Chase. ...more I saw that many readers liked this story, and I won't dispute their likes and dislikes. I hope that they won't dispute mine either. I did read the first two chapters. I felt like I did when I went to see the movie \"American Pie 2.\" I was just in the wrong movie. Left after half an hour. Neither of the main characters caught my interest. The writing style didn't captivate me. The events seemed more like the ones the author chose than the results of likely actions, but maybe it was a kind of alter I saw that many readers liked this story, and I won't dispute their likes and dislikes. I hope that they won't dispute mine either. I did read the first two chapters. I felt like I did when I went to see the movie \"American Pie 2.\" I was just in the wrong movie. Left after half an hour. Neither of the main characters caught my interest. The writing style didn't captivate me. The events seemed more like the ones the author chose than the results of likely actions, but maybe it was a kind of alternate universe where the sense of disbelief uses different numbers than it does in the one where I live. I decided to look elsewhere for my sci-fi. Perhaps the story gets more traction past the point where I bailed. If you stuck with it and liked it, well ... that's great. ...more This is absolutely the best book I've read in a long time. It's one I could pick right back up and read over again back to back, and hopefully get some sleep along the way since that didn't happen the first time through. It's packed full of action, romance and suspense, with unexpected twists and turns. As the opener to a trilogy, it sets the stage and buries the hook for book two, which I'll be reading next. Copy received in return for an honest review. Received through NetGalley for an honest review. This is a very intense book filled with political agendas. The main characters are like Romeo and Juliet but they aren't about to give up their lives easily no matter what happens with their families. The battles are fought in space and on alien planets. The main agenda for the families is power. But love is all the main characters really want. Kind of like the Hatfields vs. the McCoys, but in space. There was adventure and a compelling love story. Really good read. I received an ARC of this book from the publisher through NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. All thoughts and words contained here are entirely my own. I received a free copy via Netgalley in exchange for a honest review. The characters are well developed although the Father / Son names were confusing. The story itself is well written and I will certainly be reading book two when it is released.<---C>Tyler Chase</---C>", "Title": "Van Laven Chronicles: Throne of Novoxos"},
