{"Comments": "Didn't want to believe negative reviews,<---M> but alas</---M>, the book IS actually bad. My opinion doesn't have anything to do with the ending, even though so many are upset about it, but rather with the fact that the novel is just simply badly written. Who would have thought that McMann, a master of succinct and intense writing, can cook up a book which, with its 214 pages, seems so overlong, pointless and emotionless? Who would have thought I'd have to skim over some pages to be finally done with it? There Didn't want to believe negative reviews, but alas, the book IS actually bad. My opinion doesn't have anything to do with the ending, even though so many are upset about it, but rather with the fact that the novel is just simply badly written. Who would have thought that McMann, a master of succinct and intense writing, can cook up a book which, with its 214 pages, seems so overlong, pointless and emotionless? Who would have thought I'd have to skim over some pages to be finally done with it? There is no real story, \"<+++>Gone</+++>\" is basically an artificially extended epilogue full of filler. There is a lot of moping around, going back and forth, pointless often crass or raunchy dialog, but very little substance. The main characters are unrecognizable, there is no longer any depth to them. Janie is suddenly secretive and insincere, Cabel is an insensitive, self-centered jerk, Carrie - potty-mouth white trash, etc.<---F> The sweetest romance ever is gone</---F>. We are left with shower romps instead. A disappointment and, compared to first 2 books (<---B>which I just re-read</---B>), pretty much a disaster. There is no mystery in this book, no love, no real emotion. I teared up reading \"Wake\" and \"Fade.\" This book left me completely cold. Another series successfully ruined. \"<+++>Gone</+++>\" indeed... ...more I loved it! I won't say more and post any spoilers other than I think Lisa did a great job with they way the series finished off. And no, that's not giving anything away. All I can say is that those who loved Wake and Fade need to pre-order it now. GONE is about Janie's journey into figuring out more of who she is as a dream catcher and finding more out about herself. She'll learn about how she got her abilities as she finds out more about the man who's dreams she keeps getting sucked into, as I loved it! I won't say more and post any spoilers other than I think Lisa did a great job with they way the series finished off. And no, that's not giving anything away. All I can say is that those who loved Wake and Fade need to pre-order it now. GONE is about Janie's journey into figuring out more of who she is as a dream catcher and finding more out about herself. She'll learn about how she got her abilities as she finds out more about the man who's dreams she keeps getting sucked into, as he's sitting in a chair *hence the cover of the book* in a room. These dreams are the worst ones she's been sucked into yet. She's the only one who can help him, and though she doesn't know who he is yet, he certainly knows who she is. Cabe's dreams are becoming more and more frightening and too much for Janie, as they're his fears of what will happen to Janie. His love for her is fierce and never wavering as he supports her on her journey of finding herself. What's not to love about Cabe! Captain is the mother figure they both need and I just LOVE her character! She's there for both Janie and Cabel as they go through the difficult times that lie ahead from them in GONE, but be assured the ending is simply perfect for the WAKE trilogy. ...more Now, I'm not saying that length and quality are completely connected. (they're definitely not) All I am saying here is that the entire Dream Catcher series is shorter than many adult novels and is half the length of some middle grade series. There just isn't much going on--and there wasn't enough substance for me. Sure, I enjoyed the writing. Sure, I thought the story was interesting. But when it came to writing a review, I felt like there just wasn't enough . This series is the first where I jus Now, I'm not saying that length and quality are completely connected. (they're definitely not) All I am saying here is that the entire Dream Catcher series is shorter than many adult novels and is half the length of some middle grade series. There just isn't much going on--and there wasn't enough substance for me. Sure, I enjoyed the writing. Sure, I thought the story was interesting. But when it came to writing a review, I felt like there just wasn't enough . This series is the first where I just do not understand the 5-star reviews. The gushing love out of every bodily crevice. (I take it back. I also don't really understand Mortal Instruments, Twilight, and a few others) Perhaps people just fell in love with the writing style and I missed out on it with the audiobooks. However, I read the last section of the first book ( Wake ) and didn't love that. I doubt anyone will be reading this review that hasn't read the preceding two books but here is a recap of the series in three sentences: In book one, Janey, who lives with her alcoholic mother, figures out that she falls into people's dreams and falls for a neighbor boy who is actually (view spoiler) [a narc for the police (hide spoiler) ] and she helps solve a drug ring. In book two, Janey and Cabel help figure out which teacher at school is sleeping with students and Janey comes to know more about the ramifications of her \"gift.\" Book three just wraps things up...I guess. I just finished it yesterday and I had to actually think hard about what actually happened plot-wise. Not much. I feel like a total jerk. The second book definitely has the most going for it--substance and story-wise. Anyway, if you are at all curious about the series, I'd recommend it. It takes a nanosecond to read all three and they are enjoyable. Just don't be expecting anything earth-shattering. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more *Note* don\u2019t read this if you want to avoid spoilers. I will begin by stating that I was not expecting this series to improve. I loved Wake and Fade to the point where I would have been content, nay, delighted, if I simply got more of the same in Gone. Much to my dismay, Gone fails in comparison to both its predecessors. Beef number one. Like Wake and Fade, Gone is told in the present tense from Janie\u2019s point of view, but unlike the previous two books of the series, there is no crime solving subpl *Note* don\u2019t read this if you want to avoid spoilers. I will begin by stating that I was not expecting this series to improve. I loved Wake and Fade to the point where I would have been content, nay, delighted, if I simply got more of the same in Gone. Much to my dismay, Gone fails in comparison to both its predecessors. Beef number one. Like Wake and Fade, Gone is told in the present tense from Janie\u2019s point of view, but unlike the previous two books of the series, there is no crime solving subplot. Gone revolves entirely around Janie\u2019s circumstances and the mystery that is her father. I suppose that would have been okay, if I hadn\u2019t have been spoiled by Wake and Fade. I simply don\u2019t like that McMann deviated from the crime solving formula. It seemed like a cop out somehow. Beef number two. Janie was massacred. I had such tremendous respect for her character in the previous books. She was beautifully flawed, but extremely intelligent, emotionally strong and honest. In Gone, Janie sneaks, omits truths from Cabel, and becomes a bit of a dumbass, both intellectually and emotionally. I was so disappointed to see her digress. Beef number three. Not only did McMann fail to deliver an absolute conclusion for Janie and Cabel, she somehow made it worse. These two love each other and I wanted to see them both resolve themselves to their future together. Instead we have an ending that is so open ended, it makes me cringe. I would never stay with someone today who couldn\u2019t guarantee that they would be with me tomorrow. It was such a shame to see what was once a rather touching love story become a commitment phobic mess, regardless of the reasons why. Final beef. There was no point to this story at all. She should have ended this series with Fade. At the end of Fade, Janie had accepted her fate as a dream catcher, and had committed herself to Cabel. By the end of Gone, Janie has resolved herself to her fate as a dream catcher and is only committed to Cabel for the time being. WTH? If you loved this series as much as I did, you may want to avoid reading Gone. It certainly wasn't worth the years wait and $20. I\u2019ve got my fingers crossed that McMann hasn\u2019t ruined the other two books in the series with this ending. ...more Kind of dissapointed in this one. After such a long wait, and a real appreciation for the first two, I expected more. I love the writing style and the characters in this series, but this book did not really advance the overall plot and both Janie and Cabel are not very likable here. They seem to have taken steps back instead of forward, which I understand is part of life sometimes, but it seems a strange choice for the conclusion to a series. Janie is miserable almost all the time in this book, Kind of dissapointed in this one. After such a long wait, and a real appreciation for the first two, I expected more. I love the writing style and the characters in this series, but this book did not really advance the overall plot and both Janie and Cabel are not very likable here. They seem to have taken steps back instead of forward, which I understand is part of life sometimes, but it seems a strange choice for the conclusion to a series. Janie is miserable almost all the time in this book, I get that she has a tough life, but one of the great things about the previous books was her strength and ability to rise above her circumstances. With the huge trend in YA supernatural series these days, I feel that many authors are extending their stories needlessly, I hate to say that that may have happened here. I also think the style-which I do for the most part like-is not very well suited to a series. We never really get to delve into the details of Janie's life, and I think that is why for me the introduction of her parents as significant characters in the third and final book seemed odd. I do love they way she writes the Janie/Cabe interactions though-really good stuff. ...more This book is super short - a bit over 200 pages - and there is just not that much that actually happens. A lot of characterization but not much plot. What IS there is good, but I felt like it could have been so much better. The storyline of Janie finding her father felt more like a subplot than the complete plot. I think the book would have been 5 stars if, like in the first two books, there had been a mystery or crime to solve, with this plot about her family and her future woven into it. If th This book is super short - a bit over 200 pages - and there is just not that much that actually happens. A lot of characterization but not much plot. What IS there is good, but I felt like it could have been so much better. The storyline of Janie finding her father felt more like a subplot than the complete plot. I think the book would have been 5 stars if, like in the first two books, there had been a mystery or crime to solve, with this plot about her family and her future woven into it. If the author showed how difficult it was for her to balance crime solving and using her ability to help others while dealing with her messed up family, loving Cabel but also pushing him away, AND the knowledge that using her power would hurt her, it would have been a much more powerful and satisfying conclusion to the trilogy. Instead, we got half of a book, both in length and in content. ...more I'm finding it to be more and more common for YA series to end poorly. It seems like <---A>Lisa McMann</---A>, like a few other authors, got sloppy by the third book and stopped trying, because she knew that anyone who loved the first 2 books, would automatically want to read this one! Well, don't waste your time! I suggest reading some of the spoiler reviews instead. The concept was there.. but it was the kind of book that I wanted to skim through to get to the point. This book has WAY too much \"poor me.. my I'm finding it to be more and more common for YA series to end poorly. It seems like Lisa McMann, like a few other authors, got sloppy by the third book and stopped trying, because she knew that anyone who loved the first 2 books, would automatically want to read this one! Well, don't waste your time! I suggest reading some of the spoiler reviews instead. The concept was there.. but it was the kind of book that I wanted to skim through to get to the point. This book has WAY too much \"poor me.. my life is so hard..\" And then abruptly at the very end of the book, there is a very anti-climactic ending. Aside from the general sloppiness of this book, the words that the author chose to put in the mouths of some of her characters, were very strange. Janie and her friend next door (whose name escapes me at the moment) use \"sheesh\" way too many times, and \"yadamean\" is supposed to be their way of slang/sloppy speech for \"you know what I mean.\" Where did these words come from? They never spoke like this in the first 2 books! ...more Great ending to a terrific series. This final story about Janie, the dreamcatcher, and Cabel, the boy who loves her, doesn't disappoint. This one doesn't have the crime plotline of the first two books, but instead deals with the mystery of Janie's past and future. Her choices are even more devastating than she thought they were and she perpares to make heartbreaking choices. We get to know a little about Janie's father and small bits about her mother as well. The time stamps on each section works Great ending to a terrific series. This final story about Janie, the dreamcatcher, and Cabel, the boy who loves her, doesn't disappoint. This one doesn't have the crime plotline of the first two books, but instead deals with the mystery of Janie's past and future. Her choices are even more devastating than she thought they were and she perpares to make heartbreaking choices. We get to know a little about Janie's father and small bits about her mother as well. The time stamps on each section works very well for the story. The pace of this book, like the others, grabs you from the first chapter and doesn't let go. The writing is spare, clean with no flowery descriptions or use of ten words when one will do. Can't wait to see what McMann writes next. ...more https://writingisfunbooks.wordpress.c... \u0418\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0448\u0438 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0441\u043d\u043e - \u043c\u0430\u043a\u0430\u0440, \u0447\u0435 \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u0438 \u043d\u0435 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0431\u0440\u0430\u0445, \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0447\u043d\u043e \u0438\u0437\u0431\u0438\u0440\u0430 - \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u043e\u0441\u0432\u0435\u043d \u0434\u0430 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u0435\u0435 \u043d\u043e\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u043c\u0430\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0447\u0440\u0435\u0437 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0438. \u041a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0446\u044f\u043b\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043b\u043e\u0448\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0438\u0446\u0430 - \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0431\u0438\u0440\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435, \u043d\u043e \u044f\u0432\u043d\u043e \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0430. :) Reason for Reading: Next (and last) in the series. Summary: Janie has been left with a decision to make about her future and concentrates on making that decision. However, a wrench is thrown into her contemplations when her never before known father shows up in ICU causing her alcoholic mother to go off the deep end and add a twist to her previous choice. Now she must decide which is lesser of two evils. Comments: Right of the bat I'll say this was rather disappointing. For a good portion of the b Reason for Reading: Next (and last) in the series. Summary: Janie has been left with a decision to make about her future and concentrates on making that decision. However, a wrench is thrown into her contemplations when her never before known father shows up in ICU causing her alcoholic mother to go off the deep end and add a twist to her previous choice. Now she must decide which is lesser of two evils. Comments: Right of the bat I'll say this was rather disappointing. For a good portion of the book, from the beginning, the story mostly concentrates on Janie's dealing and coping with her alcoholic mother. Which would have been fine if this was just another teen dysfunctional family novel (which I abhor) but it was supposed to be the final book in a, so far, exciting paranormal trilogy. Janie has become very good at blocking out dreams unless they hit her out of nowhere, so during this part of the book there is barely any semblance of paranormal activity. The introduction of Janie's father and his story that Janie learns through his comatose dreams was an interesting plot move and was certainly the highlight of the book. I enjoyed the twist it brought to the story and the extra dimension it added to Janie's decision. In the end though, I thought her decision lacked logic and I came up with a different way in which she could have possibly solved her dilemna. I won't go into any details about what I thought of the casual, s*xual relationship between Janie and Cabel, except that I was not impressed. In general I was not impressed with Gone much at all; I read the book very quickly, I was already committed to the characters and enjoyed the previous two books *very much* but Gone just did not share an exciting plot with them. The father's part was good but not that exciting and I didn't pick up this book to read about the trials, tribulations and effects of an alcoholic on a family. Readable, but disappointing for the last book in a trilogy. ...more This is definately my favorite in the series. With every book I felt that hole of despair building in my chest, only to never actually break. While each book was a good fast read, it just never seemed to take that leap that I needed. The tears just never quite made it. And then......Yep yep thats right I CRIED!!! I finally broke, and I welcomed every tear. This book just seemed to go a little deeper. While the first two stayed relitively close to the surface, this one dived straight down. The emo This is definately my favorite in the series. With every book I felt that hole of despair building in my chest, only to never actually break. While each book was a good fast read, it just never seemed to take that leap that I needed. The tears just never quite made it. And then......Yep yep thats right I CRIED!!! I finally broke, and I welcomed every tear. This book just seemed to go a little deeper. While the first two stayed relitively close to the surface, this one dived straight down. The emotions felt more real, and raw. From Janie's relationship with Cabel, to introducing her father, to seeing her mom break, I enjoyed all of it. Was this the best series I've read? No. Was it still a good read? Yes. Am I glad I read it? Aboslutely! The message is clear: When your only choices are between two things that equally suck. When there are no 'lesser of two evils,' but rather the 'equal of two evils,' what would you choose? For Janie the answer isn't always so clear.... ...more This is one of the strangest trilogies I've read! Almost seems like each book in the trilogy is from a different genre, though each has the same main characters and core situations. The first book is like a paranormal/fantasy romance, the second a detective thriller, and the third is like a teen social issues book. I didn't like the third book as much as the other two (I liked the first one best), though I still read it in record time. Kind of a maudlin and depressing book, dealing more with fam This is one of the strangest trilogies I've read! Almost seems like each book in the trilogy is from a different genre, though each has the same main characters and core situations. The first book is like a paranormal/fantasy romance, the second a detective thriller, and the third is like a teen social issues book. I didn't like the third book as much as the other two (I liked the first one best), though I still read it in record time. Kind of a maudlin and depressing book, dealing more with family problems, health issues, and tough decisions. It is much more introspective than the first two books--more realistic, gritty and less fun. I couldn't put it down, but I was disturbed by parts of it and left with a rather hopeless feeling for Janie. Though there are some positive developments at the end, it is all rather gut-wrenching and seems tenuous at best. As with the other books, there is crude language and adult situations/conversations, so I would recommend for older teens or adults. ...more Reading this book took no time at all. Especially because I picked it up right after finishing Fade so, besides it being so short, since the story continues almost without interruption, there wasn't any need to slow down at the beginning. Before anything else, let's get something out of the way: the meat of the trilogy is in Fade. The ending there could (should?) have been that of the whole series. This one reads like a long epilogue, revisiting and reaffirming some decisions that had already bee Reading this book took no time at all. Especially because I picked it up right after finishing Fade so, besides it being so short, since the story continues almost without interruption, there wasn't any need to slow down at the beginning. Before anything else, let's get something out of the way: the meat of the trilogy is in Fade. The ending there could (should?) have been that of the whole series. This one reads like a long epilogue, revisiting and reaffirming some decisions that had already been made previously. So, don't read it if you expect it to be as engaging as Fade. It doesn't hold a candle to it. Having said that, I have to say that I kind of liked this book, in the same way that I enjoy short stories from series that I follow when they're published in anthologies or as free reads online. You know, those where nothing important happens but you still like getting a peek into the characters' lives. In Fade we're left with this trilogy's version of \"and they lived happily ever after.\" Of course, a few minutes after reading those words, you invariably wonder why and how . More so in this case where \"happily\" is pretty much out of the question. Undoubtedly, hopeful endings carry more punch than questioning your characters' ability to have a normal life, but even as you accept the reason for them, you still wonder. So, in Gone, we get the scoop on what that \"ever after\" means for a dream catcher. There is no undercover case this time. Just Janie working through her options which, as it turns out, are even crappier than what Ms. Stubin had known. There's more time to focus on Janie's mom and her past, Cabel's thoughts on his family, Janie's relationship with the captain and the other cops and I liked seeing all those things. It is a fitting, enjoyable end to a series but it would have worked much better as part of Fade. Published as a book in its own right loses several points. Only recommended for those who really liked the characters from previous books. ...more I wasn't thinking much when I first opened up Gone . I read Wake and Fade much too long ago to remember anything but the main details of the books. There must have been something I liked about those books, since I had Gone on my list of \"to-reads\", but unfortunately, Gone did not help me figure out why I had it on my list. Lisa McMann's style of writing is unique and very different from what I'm used to reading. I find nothing wrong with the style in her previous two books, but it irked me for som I wasn't thinking much when I first opened up Gone . I read Wake and Fade much too long ago to remember anything but the main details of the books. There must have been something I liked about those books, since I had Gone on my list of \"to-reads\", but unfortunately, Gone did not help me figure out why I had it on my list. Lisa McMann's style of writing is unique and very different from what I'm used to reading. I find nothing wrong with the style in her previous two books, but it irked me for some reason in this book. Gone was one of those books that I read quickly because I wanted to get over with it, I'm sorry to say. The story and characters didn't really connect with me, and as a result, the book didn't make a strong impression on me. The latter half of the book had some redeeming qualities, and the plot began to capture my interest. I do like how McMann wraps everything up, but like I mentioned before, I still felt rather disconnected from the book as a whole. Compared to the first two books, Gone is a bit of a disappointment. Overall, I find it to be an \"okay\" or \"bleh\" (as I like to put it) book. It wasn't horrible, but it didn't amaze me either. ...more Reviewed by Lesley for TeensReadToo.com In the final installment of Lisa McMann's DREAM CATCHER trilogy, Janie finds herself in a dilemma a little closer to home. Janie receives a phone call that her mother is in the hospital. Once there, she discovers it is not her mother that needs help, but a mysterious man in a coma who seems to be calling to her from his dreams. By her side is her boyfriend, Cabel, who tries to help her as much as he can. When he starts to have terrifying dreams, Janie becomes Reviewed by Lesley for TeensReadToo.com In the final installment of Lisa McMann's DREAM CATCHER trilogy, Janie finds herself in a dilemma a little closer to home. Janie receives a phone call that her mother is in the hospital. Once there, she discovers it is not her mother that needs help, but a mysterious man in a coma who seems to be calling to her from his dreams. By her side is her boyfriend, Cabel, who tries to help her as much as he can. When he starts to have terrifying dreams, Janie becomes torn between the love she has for him and what she feels is right to make him happy. Janie is learning more and more about herself and what a Dream Catcher's life entails. The last book is a conclusion of her final decision of her life ahead, what she needs for herself, and what she wants it to be for her and Cabel. If you haven't read the first two books of this series, WAKE and FADE, you will be lost throughout the third. A lot of the conversations had and people met are from the others, so I recommend you read them first. You won't be disappointed - this series is one of the best for Young Adult readers! ...more Depois direi mais coisas sobre o livro no v\u00eddeo das leituras de Mar\u00e7o. Foge foi meio \"Hum...\" , n\u00e3o estou desiludida nem fascinada. Foi normal , percebi tudo aquilo que \u00eda acontecer, al\u00e9m disso o final foi meio \"meeeh\" foi fraquinho, tal como havia dito, preferia que o segundo livro (Teme) fosse o \u00faltimo da s\u00e9rie... But that's okay, este final foi okay, n\u00e3o foi p\u00e9ssimo mas tamb\u00e9m n\u00e3o foi maravilhoso, foi aquilo que eu j\u00e1 estava a prever. Not very satisfied with how this ended. But okay. What would you do if you were involuntarily sucked into other people\u2019s dreams? Would you run away, or stay to help the dreamers? Gone by Susan Mcmann, was a riveting fantasy novel based around the main character Janie and her boyfriend Cabel. It was set in 2010. Janie is a dream catcher. She unwillingly enters the dreams of anyone who sleeps around her. The consequence of this continues dilemma being losing the loss of her hands and eyes. But there is another option; if she chooses isolation she What would you do if you were involuntarily sucked into other people\u2019s dreams? Would you run away, or stay to help the dreamers? Gone by Susan Mcmann, was a riveting fantasy novel based around the main character Janie and her boyfriend Cabel. It was set in 2010. Janie is a dream catcher. She unwillingly enters the dreams of anyone who sleeps around her. The consequence of this continues dilemma being losing the loss of her hands and eyes. But there is another option; if she chooses isolation she may just be able to avoid this fate. Will she choose to leave Cabel, the only person she truly loves to save her hands and eyes, or will she stay and hope he stays with her? One of the themes in Gone is what to do when you are faced with a decision with no right answer. Janie must choose to either stay and help change the dreams she enters or live in isolation for the rest of her existence. It was a page-turner! If Janie stays and helps the dreamers she will lose her hands and eyes. She works as a detective and picks up clues through the suspects dreams, but this will only hasten the loss of them. She is having trouble dealing with the thought of this, and is practically breaking down. To Cabel she had said, \u201cHow can you even stand to think what I\u2019ll look like in 15 years, all blind and gnarled, Cabe?\u201d She doesn\u2019t know if she will be able to handle living with him if she has to go through his dreams. She also doesn\u2019t know if he will want to stay with her when she is crippled. If Janie goes into isolation, like her new found father did, her brain may literally explode from not using her gift. She needs to figure out if she would risk losing Cabel to keep her hands and eyes for a little longer, until her mind dies. From what she had seen, through out the end of his life Henry, her father, seemed to be in so much pain. She managed to talk to her father about his life briefly in his dream, and he seemed to regret going into isolation. She has a really hard time deciding. It was such a page-turner, because you really want to find out what she ends up choosing! Initially Janie chooses isolation, but can\u2019t bring herself to tell Cabel. She then finds out what would happen if you isolated and thinks about changing her mind. She goes back and forth like this through out the whole book and it leaves you sitting on the edge of your seat. I just couldn\u2019t put it down. So really the theme in this book is what to do when your faced with a decision like this. I really connected with Janie because if you take away the dream catching I have had to make decisions like this, where there really is no way to win. I learned that no matter how hard you have it in life, there is always something or someone worth living for. So if she can make it through that others can make it through hard things too. I worked really hard on this. I did need to work a little bit harder on finding a better thesis, but I tried hard. If I had a little bit more time I would have probably tried to go into more detail. \u263a ...more Like the other two books in this trilogy, I read Gone in a matter of hours; it was just that good. Once I started on it, I couldn't force myself to put it down for any reason, and I do mean any . At first, I was a little frustrated with it because Janie and Cabel were constantly sniping at each other, but I quickly got over that and kept reading. The revelations and discoveries surrounding Janie's father was an interesting twist. First of all because I wasn't expecting him to ever come into the se Like the other two books in this trilogy, I read Gone in a matter of hours; it was just that good. Once I started on it, I couldn't force myself to put it down for any reason, and I do mean any . At first, I was a little frustrated with it because Janie and Cabel were constantly sniping at each other, but I quickly got over that and kept reading. The revelations and discoveries surrounding Janie's father was an interesting twist. First of all because I wasn't expecting him to ever come into the series. Second of all because he was a dream catcher, too, and he chose the life of isolation over blindness and gnarled hands. Little did he know that a life of isolation would lead to his brain exploding. Tough choice, when you think about it. And Janie does. She has to. I think the hardest part for me about this book was that, up until the very end, Janie had decided to leave Cabe and live her life in isolation. It broke my heart because I loved, and still do love, Cabe. He's such a sweetie pie, and he broke my heart a little more each time he pretended everything was okay when we could see through his dreams that it clearly wasn't. Interestingly enough, I was able to tolerate Carrie a teensy bit more in this book than the other ones, but I still could not tolerate her when Janie was around her for extended periods of time. She just rubs me the wrong way. In Gone, Janie finally has to deal with the burden that is her mother. That was a huge step and one I definitely respect her for. I was grateful, too, that Captain gave her that address to the support group; she really needed that. I wish I could say that her mother's obvious pain at the end over Henry's death made me feel sorry for her, but alas, I cannot. Her mother's selfishness grated on my nerves and made me dislike her all the more. In the end, Janie decides that she's rather take blindness, gnarled hands, and a life with Cabel instead of a life of isolation and brain explosions. And, while I loved that, I was extremely sad to get to page 214 and read the last words of the Wake Trilogy. This trilogy will always stay with me and I know I'll go back to read it over and over again. ...more I am a little disappointed in this book. I am not sure if I actually have any closure. I would have thought with this being the final book in the trilogy everything would have been tied up happy ending or not, but I feel just as lost if not more. The story details Janie decision to either continue using her ability with all the consequences or becoming an isolated hermit. She makes up her mind pretty early in the book, but then discovers her father is not only living in the same town as she is b I am a little disappointed in this book. I am not sure if I actually have any closure. I would have thought with this being the final book in the trilogy everything would have been tied up happy ending or not, but I feel just as lost if not more. The story details Janie decision to either continue using her ability with all the consequences or becoming an isolated hermit. She makes up her mind pretty early in the book, but then discovers her father is not only living in the same town as she is but that he is in a coma and about to die. This impacts her life as she realizes that he is also a dream catcher. Now, the story sounds great, but I just wanted so much more details and it felt like McMann skimmed over some great conversations. I would have liked Janie to have an actual conversation with her dad and get some kind of knowledge about what he went through isolating himself. I am okay with his death but I felt like Janie got short changed since she had to figure everything out for herself. Can't she catch a break?? I mean she finds Miss.Stubbins and she dies, then her Dad is the next to go when he could have helped her also. I just wish McMann would have used Janie's dad better in the story. Also, I missed the wonderful relationship between Cabel and Janie. It seemed like they were so far apart from each other. I really wanted to hear the big reveal conversation, but again McMann skipped right over it. All I got was that Cabe didn't realize he was having nightmares. I wanted to hear his fears and concerns. I think if we would have been able to witness the conversation I wouldn't be so put off by their ending. I understand the day to day agreement, but I really wanted more for them. All in all this wasn't a bad book I actually liked it but I am disappointed in the way it was executed. I feel like there should be a fourth book in which we learn that Janie has truly excepted her fate and is okay with it. I hoped that would have been the central story in this one. I know this will not happen so I am just going to move on. ...more The series felt like 1 book divided into 3. Throughout the first two books I was motivated by wondering what had happened to Janie's (the main character) mother to make her a disaffected drunk and Janie a responsible, self-motivated, honest teenager. Sadly, those questions were not answered in the third book. Dorothea, Janie's mother, is a miserable, self-involved drunk with few redeeming qualities (I'm trying to think of one now, and nothing comes to mind). While she is probably an accurate por The series felt like 1 book divided into 3. Throughout the first two books I was motivated by wondering what had happened to Janie's (the main character) mother to make her a disaffected drunk and Janie a responsible, self-motivated, honest teenager. Sadly, those questions were not answered in the third book. Dorothea, Janie's mother, is a miserable, self-involved drunk with few redeeming qualities (I'm trying to think of one now, and nothing comes to mind). While she is probably an accurate portrayal of many children's alcoholic parents, she's not a compelling fictional character. Neither is Janie, ultimately. As a true Harry Potter fan, I found the series annoying as it continued into Harry's adolescence. Ditto Twilight. (Yikes!) As the Wake series progresses, Janie becomes more Nancy-Drew-with-a-sleep-disorder and less of a responsible teenager trying to cope with the loneliness and frustration of being the child of disturbed parent. I've come to the conclusion that writing contemporary YA lit is especially tough because a realistic portrayal requires the main characters to be narcissistic which, in turn, makes them cloying as plot events repeat their narcissistic behavior and eventually creates unsympathetic characters for most readers outside of the core adolescent group. On the plus side, there really is a Stucchi's ice cream parlor in Ann Arbor and, if you ever visit, you shouldn't miss it. ...more I think I distanced myself from this book for long enough. And my only words can be, \"what the hell happened?\" What happened to the wonderful fast paced plots that had me on the edge of my seat? What happened to all the characters I fell in love with? Well, they were \"gone\", how appropriately named this book is. The majority ends up being some major angsty emo-fest between Janie and Cabel. The reason why I loved their relationship in the beginning because they were able to work through their past I think I distanced myself from this book for long enough. And my only words can be, \"what the hell happened?\" What happened to the wonderful fast paced plots that had me on the edge of my seat? What happened to all the characters I fell in love with? Well, they were \"gone\", how appropriately named this book is. The majority ends up being some major angsty emo-fest between Janie and Cabel. The reason why I loved their relationship in the beginning because they were able to work through their past troubles, fears, and each person's insecurity. Why did we suddenly have an about face? Janie doesn't want to tell anyone anything or even attempt to, and Cabel kept spouting off some insensitive crap that is totally out of character for him. And the entirety of this book is mostly the hot loving they got going on without any real plot in the background to prop this story up. Really?! There is no magical draw I felt for this book and it's extremely superficial and shallow on all angles. The big plot twists (if there were any) were such a ho-hum affair I can't even remember if I cared. Probably not. Even the supporting characters we had before are different, lots of swearing, and whatever. This whole father deal is a bit too little, too late. What a horrid ending to such a great book series. ...more Gone by Lisa McMann marks the final installment to the Wake Series. It was bitter-sweet to finish this book, as I was excited to continue with Janie and Cabel\u2019s journey, but very sad to see it come to a close. This book was somewhat different than the first two as I saw a shift in Janie\u2019s character. From the narrative and her reaction to various situations, I sensed an edge and frustration that she kept concealed in the first two books. It was great to see Cabel as he\u2019s always been; supportive, Gone by Lisa McMann marks the final installment to the Wake Series. It was bitter-sweet to finish this book, as I was excited to continue with Janie and Cabel\u2019s journey, but very sad to see it come to a close. This book was somewhat different than the first two as I saw a shift in Janie\u2019s character. From the narrative and her reaction to various situations, I sensed an edge and frustration that she kept concealed in the first two books. It was great to see Cabel as he\u2019s always been; supportive, loving, caring, sensitive and all the elements that make him the perfect match for Janie. However, their time together is not a guarantee, as Janie knows staying with Cabe will cause them both pain in the long run as her degenerative condition enhances with time. In this book, we discover a bit more about Janie\u2019s past and the final piece to the puzzle of her affliction, which ultimately offers her a choice. But unfortunately, both choices Janie is faced with will bring her and those she loves pain. It\u2019s a heartfelt journey that will have you sighing as you finish the final pages. This book offers an emotional and heartrending conclusion to Janie\u2019s dream-catching world. Very well done. ...more This is one of the most incredible series that I have ever read. It's simple creativity is genius. While I enjoyed Wake and Fade more than this book I still think it was a great ending to a great series. It's hard to talk about this book without spoiling Wake and Fade for people that haven't read them. By the way, if you haven't read them: What are you waiting for!!? This book is full of Janie's turmoil. She has to decide. But both of her options are equally terrible. At least that is what she thi This is one of the most incredible series that I have ever read. It's simple creativity is genius. While I enjoyed Wake and Fade more than this book I still think it was a great ending to a great series. It's hard to talk about this book without spoiling Wake and Fade for people that haven't read them. By the way, if you haven't read them: What are you waiting for!!? This book is full of Janie's turmoil. She has to decide. But both of her options are equally terrible. At least that is what she thinks. One of my favorite parts of this trilogy, if not my favorite, is Janie and Cable. In Gone, Janie and Cable's relationship is a bit strained. Understandably so. But that's one of the reasons that I didn't like this one as much. Don't get me wrong. I still loved it! Maybe I'm just judging it too harshly because I'm sad that it's the last book.... Lisa McMann is one of the most talented authors I have ever read. She takes a story that most other author would muddle up with inane details and just gives you the basics. And it works! And it's amazing! I love this style of writing. I will be reading anything that McMann writes in the future! Anything! ...more This was exctremely sad, and often bittersweet, and it took me in some surprising directions, and some obvious directions. Janie really carried the world on her shoulders, and even when she thought she'd found the perfect solution to her little problem, she realized that the fork was a lot worse than what she had thought in the beginning. And really good for her that Cabe was always so patient! Captain was great, a real mother-figure for Janie, and my goodness, did she need one. The end was bitters This was exctremely sad, and often bittersweet, and it took me in some surprising directions, and some obvious directions. Janie really carried the world on her shoulders, and even when she thought she'd found the perfect solution to her little problem, she realized that the fork was a lot worse than what she had thought in the beginning. And really good for her that Cabe was always so patient! Captain was great, a real mother-figure for Janie, and my goodness, did she need one. The end was bittersweet as well, and left me with a feeling that there should be a small epilogue, although at the same time, I was quite satisfied that there was no real happily ever after - it made it more real - no hollywood ending for this series. The writing was eerily beautiful, and the insight to Janie's character, as well as her growth through the three books was amazing and very nice to follow. ...more For me, this book wasn't that great. Don't get me wrong, I loved the series as a whole, but I was really hoping for something with action like the second book, Fade . I really enjoyed the fact that Janie met her father even under the circumstances... but it was just too boring and I found myself hoping to get through it as fast as possible. I did like the ending however, mainly because it left it sure of being unsure if that makes sense. For someone who may not get my meaning, I mean that Janie a For me, this book wasn't that great. Don't get me wrong, I loved the series as a whole, but I was really hoping for something with action like the second book, Fade . I really enjoyed the fact that Janie met her father even under the circumstances... but it was just too boring and I found myself hoping to get through it as fast as possible. I did like the ending however, mainly because it left it sure of being unsure if that makes sense. For someone who may not get my meaning, I mean that Janie and Cabe agreed to go at it one day at a time, not thinking about the future, but thinking about that day. ...more Ow. My heart hurts. I think I even cried. I think. During the funeral, I think I cried. My heart hurts. 3.5 stars In a way I liked this book better than the first two. It was kind of depressing and it bothered me how much the author said \"you know?\" But whatever my odd pet peeve. The ending was pretty sad but hopeful at the same time, a good read still an odd series though Original post at One More Page I thought I reviewed the first two books in the Dream Catcher series on my personal blog, but I was mistaken, so the review of the third book would have to have some kind of recap of the first two. The Dream Catcher series by Lisa McMann is about <---C>Janie Hannagan</---C>, who has the strange ability to get into other people's dreams. The series deals with Janie and dealing with her strange ability, the people around her, her relationships and the uses of her powers. In the fir Original post at One More Page I thought I reviewed the first two books in the Dream Catcher series on my personal blog, but I was mistaken, so the review of the third book would have to have some kind of recap of the first two. The Dream Catcher series by Lisa McMann is about Janie Hannagan, who has the strange ability to get into other people's dreams. The series deals with Janie and dealing with her strange ability, the people around her, her relationships and the uses of her powers. In the first book, Wake , we meet Janie and we get a glimpse of how her ability is a problem for her because she can't stop entering other people's dreams. It's fine if the dreams were nice, calm ones, but nightmares were a different story. Janie tries to live her life as normally as she can with her ability and her alcoholic mother, until she meets and falls for Cabel, and realizes that her ability may be used as a gift to help other people. In Fade , Janie starts to discover more about her abilities when she finds out that one of the elderly woman she takes care of in her job has the same abilities as she does. Janie and Cabel enter a relationship and a job that would secure their future and would give Janie more reasons to practice her ability. However, Janie discovers something horrifying about her future if she keeps on doing what she was doing: a future that she doesn't know would make Cabel stay with her. Now with Gone, Janie still thinks of her future if she continues using her ability. She and Cabel try to treat things normally, but she's uncertain if Cabel would stay for the long run. And as if the emotional turmoil is not enough, she gets news that her biological father is in the hospital and dying. Janie prefers not to care, but something about her father draws her to him, and what she finds out could be the key to the future she found out about in Fade , that is if Janie is willing to make a choice. Now that we've gotten the recaps in order (and I tried to be as spoiler-less as possible), let's get on to the review. I have very mixed reactions with the last book in the series. I liked Wake , and I liked the concept that McMann introduced. Janie isn't a particularly lovable character, but she wasn't all annoying either. One would tend to sympathize with Janie's situation -- no one wants to see other people's nightmares, let alone experience them. In Fade, we see Janie making use of her abilities and it was fun, although it wasn't that impressive in terms of story. The revelations of what could happen to Janie, however, was interesting, and it provided enough suspense to the story and the characters to make me want to know what's going to happen next. With Gone , I'm at my own crossroads. I liked how McMann wrote Janie's emotional turmoil about her future, and bringing in a person from the past is an effective way to face them. I also liked how the author made Janie's heart soften towards her father, and how she faced her problems without really thinking of what other people will think. She knew she had to put herself because she was the one who's going to deal with everything, not others. People may say that they will always support her, but she knew that they can only go so far. I also liked that McMann introduced more of Janie's past, and how she executed the \"conversation\" Janie had with her father. That part teared me up, and I felt that it was fitting that I read the book during Father's Day. What's really making me indecisive about how this book fared for me was the ending. I think that's what most of the readers of this book would face. When I got to the ending, I thought there was more. I wanted to know more, I wanted to see what Janie would pick. But it ended where it did, and while it was frustrating to be left hanging like that, I also feel like the ending was just right. I mean, there is no real good choice -- both of Janie's possible choices would lead to undesirable outcomes. What she needed to choose was which was the lesser evil, which frankly, even I don't know what. I have always had a penchant for ending stories with a sort of cliffhanger, one that doesn't tie up all loose ends and makes the reader wonder what happened next. I think Lisa McMann executed that beautifully here. I can't say it's satisfying, but I can say that it might be the proper -- if not the best -- ending for this series. It's not my favorite book or series, but I'm glad I read it. ...more If you look at the number of ratings Lisa McMann's books have, it's really not fair of me to call her underrated, but that's just what I'm going to do. I rarely see her books discussed or even reviewed by my blogger friends, which is a shame because I have a soft spot for them. Not just the books in this series, but those in her Visions series , too. She has a very unusual writing style - fragments are frequently used, language is at its bare minimum, dialogue is crisp and effortless. It may take If you look at the number of ratings Lisa McMann's books have, it's really not fair of me to call her underrated, but that's just what I'm going to do. I rarely see her books discussed or even reviewed by my blogger friends, which is a shame because I have a soft spot for them. Not just the books in this series, but those in her Visions series , too. She has a very unusual writing style - fragments are frequently used, language is at its bare minimum, dialogue is crisp and effortless. It may take some getting used to, but I believe it serves her plots and characters well. There's something very charming about it all. It's not just the quick pace - seriously, you can read her books in a few short hours - or the quirky story lines, but the surprising amount of emotional depth, too. Hers are characters that I grow to love and enjoy spending time with. Another major plus is her adorable romances that are blissfully triangle-free. Lots and lots of win. The Dream Catcher series centers around high school senior Janie, a girl who gets helplessly sucked into other people's dreams - or, more often than not, their nightmares. She's sometimes charged with the task of helping them, a dream landscape being the very place people work out their real life issues. She eventually uses it for undercover crime, too, which provides the main thread of mystery in the first two books. If I'm making this sound like a superhero book, I'm not meaning to, because it's not like that at all. Janie's ability is a curse, and over time she will lose the use of her hands and go blind because of it. It's a scary, horrific, lonely journey she's on, but what makes her a great character is her ever present snark and wit - sort of like laughing in the face of danger. She's an excellent narrator, more than engaging and with plenty of emotional depth. At least, she was, but more on that later. Then there's Caleb, the boy. I have so much love for him. He's an outcast - scarred literally and figuratively by his past, has gone through different \"phases\" in school, including the goth and emo stage - but he's also extremely sensitive and has a heart of gold. I just get all gooey about a boy who has been crushing on a girl from afar, finally finding the courage to approach her, and that's exactly what happens between Caleb and Janie. Their relationship is sweet and genuine, the love that grows between them wholly realistic. They have their rough patches but then moments of grace and understanding that are so emotionally satisfying. Love them. Now, I say all this, and you're probably wondering why the three stars for Gone . Unfortunately, and I should have listened to the reviews ahead of time, this is a pretty disappointing series conclusion. There is very little plot to speak of - more of Janie deciding how she's going to live for the rest of her life and learning more about her absent dad - and the characters have surprisingly little depth, at least when compared to the first two books. But mostly the whole thing is just so damn depressing. Janie's situation is awful, yes, but I hated the choices she kept making and the way she was shutting Caleb out. She's a major downer, and I no longer liked being in her head so much. And then the book just sort of ends. It left me feeling for the first time (and sadly the last time) unsatisfied. I wanted to feel good about where Caleb and Janie were at, but I feel burdened instead. Blame it on my hopeless romantic heart, but I needed something more concrete. The reason I even gave it as much as three stars is because there are a few really cute OTP scenes mixed in with all the angst. They made me happy. Caleb remains one of my favorite boys, too, that adorable charmer. Like I said I love Lisa McMann, but I expected more out of this final book. If you decide to give this series a try - which I highly, highly recommend, as well as her other one - maybe skip this final book. But I think she brings something new to the YA table, fantasy that is fun and quirky and unique. I hope her books will be brought into the discussion more often. This review can also be found at Love at First Page . ...more", "Title": "Gone"},
