{"Comments": "There wasn't anything horribly wrong with this book, but I found myself unattached to any of the characters. And even for a science fiction novel I thought a lot of the plot was just unbelievable; the main character seems to excel at and have the answer to everything while his fellow soldiers get killed left and right. The people he meets are little more than cannon fodder and you don't really get a chance to like them so it's not that big a deal when they bite it. Scalzi chooses to barely descr There wasn't anything horribly wrong with this book, but I found myself unattached to any of the characters. And even for a science fiction novel I thought a lot of the plot was just unbelievable; the main character seems to excel at and have the answer to everything while his fellow soldiers get killed left and right. The people he meets are little more than cannon fodder and you don't really get a chance to like them so it's not that big a deal when they bite it. Scalzi chooses to barely describe the various characters,<---M> and when they get their \"upgrades</---M>,\" they all are young and beautiful and even harder to tell apart. It also doesn't help that every single character has the same snarky voice; even the women. Almost a full half of the novel is spent on setup and getting the soldiers ready for battle. A lot of the technology was interesting and also easy to understand, but I felt like too much time was spent on leading up to the main story. And then, when the characters finally enter into battle and start fighting for humanity's right to colonize, each chapter reads like: \"this girl died, then that guy died, then this girl got eaten, then that guy got vaporized, now let's go kill some aliens and act like complete dickwads because if we don't kill them first, humanity is DOOMED.\" I was continuously bored because I didn\u2019t even care if the humans won or if the main character lived to see another day. The first and last chapters did make me a little teary eyed, and this was mostly due to the relationship the main character had with his wife. Scalzi's focus is never on characterization though, so these brief interludes add only a small amount of charm to an otherwise emotionally bereft story. I'm hoping that this was just a case of \"first book syndrome\" since this is the beginning of a series. I've heard it gets better, although I've read his newest book, Fuzzy Nation , and I really think I'll continue to have the same problem. Namely, I feel like he enjoys creating a worst case scenario and devising the cleverest way for them to escape it, and it all ends up feeling too neat and methodical. It's just too bad that I don't really care about his characters, because then these books would be a lot more enjoyable. ...more I really enjoyed <+++>Old Man's War</+++> and think you should read it. For me it was a 5* first half and a 3* second half (<---B>I liked the 2nd half but it wasn't 5* 'amazing'</---B>). Scalzi can write! He opens with excellent characterization, touching and real. This skill at bringing the POV character to life, at catching the vibe of a vital individual grown old and isolated, combines with a great plot hook. It's vivid modern almost literary writing unfolding a fascinating take on future earth. The second half felt I really enjoyed <+++>Old Man's War</+++> and think you should read it. For me it was a 5* first half and a 3* second half (I liked the 2nd half but it wasn't 5* 'amazing'). Scalzi can write! He opens with excellent characterization, touching and real. This skill at bringing the POV character to life, at catching the vibe of a vital individual grown old and isolated, combines with a great plot hook. It's vivid modern almost literary writing unfolding a fascinating take on future earth. The second half felt more like 60's/70's sci-fi - blasting bad guys in space. EE Doc Smith could have written it. That's by no means a bad thing.<---F> I enjoyed it</---F>. You may well too. But the transition from a very personal earth-bound story to a space romp didn't quite gell for me. These minor nits aside, this is a fun, interesting, exciting, funny book. Read it. Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes ...more sometimes a first novel gets everything right. writing that is clean, clear, and fluid. characterization that is simple, straightforward, and real. a narrative that hurtles forward but does not feel rushed or incomplete. ideas that feel new and that are conveyed with enthusiasm and a brisk, unpretentious freshness. such is Old Man's War. this is a military science fiction novel and the first of a series. that probably brings up a whole host of automatic preconceptions about what will be happening sometimes a first novel gets everything right. writing that is clean, clear, and fluid. characterization that is simple, straightforward, and real. a narrative that hurtles forward but does not feel rushed or incomplete. ideas that feel new and that are conveyed with enthusiasm and a brisk, unpretentious freshness. such is Old Man's War. this is a military science fiction novel and the first of a series. that probably brings up a whole host of automatic preconceptions about what will be happening and how the protagonist - a recruit in the interstellar wars of the future - will be quickly introduced to his new life... initial bonding with his fellow soldiers... training with a tough drill master... the first battle... the first kill... the death of comrades... cynicism... more battles, and the promise of more to come... and somewhere in there, perhaps, a bit of unlikely romance. the template has been around for a while, Starship Troopers et al, and Old Man's War doesn't stray from the tried-and-true. but as anyone even slightly familiar with the novel's premise knows, this traditional narrative gets a shot of adrenalin by having the hero be a 75-year old man who finds not just a new life, but a new body by joining up with humanity's defenders. actually, \"adrenalin\" is the exact opposite of the word that should be used. because of new soldier <---C>John Perry</---C>'s past life, the novel has actually been injected with a massive dose of wry introspection and not a little melancholy. and so many of those traditional stops on the military scifi journey are likewise transformed into something different. even the inevitable 'unlikely romance' has become a rather original new thing. oh how i enjoyed the opening chapter! rather than a youngster fit to jump into conflict and other forms of excitement, we get the calm and thoughtful musings of an old man looking back with fondness and sadness on his rich but quite regular life, and getting ready to start that life anew. a contemplation colored with all of the amused and slightly cantankerous distance that a gentle grandfatherly type would have. and much later in the novel, as John Perry spends time with the unusually intriguing romantic interest, we get another warm and often unsentimental portrait of this past life. all quite moving. i did not expect to be so moved by Old Man's War. despite everything i've mentioned so far, this is still a tough-minded book that is rooted in classic military tropes. there are a lot of fascinatingly exotic and often horrible aliens. there are battles on the ground and up in space. there is blood and guts and a huge body count. and yet the word that comes to mind after reading the novel is... lovely . ...more I'm about to say something I wasn't sure I'd ever say about a science fiction novel about interstellar war - this book is warmly humanist in its approach. From the first time I sat down to read it, I felt invited and welcomed into the world Scalzi was creating. I enjoyed meeting and spending time with the characters he creates, who are mostly interesting and intelligent people that you'd want to know. I loved the digressions about the morality of following orders, and war as the easy way to deal I'm about to say something I wasn't sure I'd ever say about a science fiction novel about interstellar war - this book is warmly humanist in its approach. From the first time I sat down to read it, I felt invited and welcomed into the world Scalzi was creating. I enjoyed meeting and spending time with the characters he creates, who are mostly interesting and intelligent people that you'd want to know. I loved the digressions about the morality of following orders, and war as the easy way to deal with conflict. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more John Perry enlists in the Colonial Defense Force on his 75th birthday and gets whisked off to war in a new and improved body, defending Earth's colonies against alien races. Will John be one of the few that survives his first year? <---A>John Scalzi</---A>'s blog is one of the few I've followed in 2010 and I'm pleased to say that if Old Man's War is any judge, his novels are just as entertaining as his blog. I've been pretty omnivorous in my reading tastes the last couple of years and I think that's why I like John Perry enlists in the Colonial Defense Force on his 75th birthday and gets whisked off to war in a new and improved body, defending Earth's colonies against alien races. Will John be one of the few that survives his first year? John Scalzi's blog is one of the few I've followed in 2010 and I'm pleased to say that if Old Man's War is any judge, his novels are just as entertaining as his blog. I've been pretty omnivorous in my reading tastes the last couple of years and I think that's why I liked Old Man's War so much. While it's a sf book inspired by Heinlein's Starship Troopers, it's also really funny, somewhere between Christopher Moore and Donald Westlake's Dortmunder series. It's narrated in the first person and John Perry is a pretty funny guy. The Scalz has a lot of great sf concepts packed into Old Man's War; you've got the new bodies the senior citizens are given upon enlisting, the beanstalk, the skip drives, alien species that aren't humanoid, the list goes on and on. While the concept of 75 year old military recruits sounds like comedy fodder, it's actually pretty well explained. Getting a new body, even though it will be repeatedly shot at, would be very tempting at 75. There were so many things I loved about this book that I can't possibly mention them all without giving away large parts of the plot. Let's just say that this one is definitely in the top 10 of 2010. ...more If somehow you read my Old Man's War review first before others (yeah, highly improbable), my first advice is: STOP reading this review, just read the book first! =========== OK, so you want me to elaborate more on this review? Saying I had a good experience enjoying this book is an understatement: (view spoiler) [ when I read the rather sad and serene first chapter, I almost forgot the title of the book has word \"War\". Then I reached second chapter, and WHAM! for the rest of Part I, I was overwhelm If somehow you read my Old Man's War review first before others (yeah, highly improbable), my first advice is: STOP reading this review, just read the book first! =========== OK, so you want me to elaborate more on this review? Saying I had a good experience enjoying this book is an understatement: (view spoiler) [ when I read the rather sad and serene first chapter, I almost forgot the title of the book has word \"War\". Then I reached second chapter, and WHAM! for the rest of Part I, I was overwhelmed with jokes after jokes, introducing the interesting universe and technologies (and some hilarious applications of serious technologies), fun characters, etc. This unexpected twist from first chapter to next chapters of Part I is the reason why I advice to read the book first without any expectation from reviews. (hide spoiler) ] The beginning is so strong, I was in love with this book. As Military SF or Space Opera, I agreed that there are deeper stories in market than OMW. But I saw this book as a niche sub-genre in SF: Humorous Military/Space Opera SF (for example Vorkosigan Saga , Phule's Company , Bill, the Galactic Hero , or Willful Child ). For this niche sub-genre, OMW is one of the best. Maybe it is the best (Vorkosigan Saga fans, please spare my life by saying this). ...more Old Man\u2019s War by John Scalzi has been described as an exciting new take on the work of Robert A. Heinlein. Scalzi himself acknowledges being inspired by the late grandmaster. Much of the tone and style of the book does seem to not only imitate RAH, but somehow channel his genius into a new voice for a younger generation. Most evident is that Scalzi has recreated Heinlein\u2019s corny but endearing dialogue, espousing an approachable and likable optimism. A Heinlein fan will compare this most readily t Old Man\u2019s War by John Scalzi has been described as an exciting new take on the work of Robert A. Heinlein. Scalzi himself acknowledges being inspired by the late grandmaster. Much of the tone and style of the book does seem to not only imitate RAH, but somehow channel his genius into a new voice for a younger generation. Most evident is that Scalzi has recreated Heinlein\u2019s corny but endearing dialogue, espousing an approachable and likable optimism. A Heinlein fan will compare this most readily to Starship Troopers and Scalzi has brought this classic into vogue with some innovative twists. I also think about Spider Robinson\u2019s RAH co-authorship of Variable Star ; but where Robinson\u2019s trashy dialogue was a blasphemy of Heinlein\u2019s conservative (though sexist) etiquette, Scalzi\u2019s profane script appears fresh and edgy and absolutely contextually correct. Essentially he has taken the best of Heinlein and modernized it for readers of today. I enjoyed the book, especially from the perspective of a Heinlein fan and as a veteran; the scene where the new Colonial Defense Forces meet their drill instructor, Master Sergeant Ruiz, is a classic that will make anyone who has ever been to basic training howl when reading. Scalzi, through Ruiz, makes a subtle but distinct twist on the stereotypical humorous drill instructor spiel. Finally, Scalzi has done a fine job of world building, where even Poul Anderson or Frank Herbert would be proud; the Consu are particularly akin to something Herbert would come up with. This is simply and enjoyably a very good read. ...more Definitely an enjoyable read. A nice mix of philosophical and humorous observations, especially in the beginning, manage to capture the tone of an older person looking back on a long life. The beginning starts with John, the main character, entering a recruiter's office to review and sign his enlistment contract. It is a marvelous device, allowing John's internal commentary and reactions to provide needed background to the current political and technological setting. Scalzi's straightforward writ Definitely an enjoyable read. A nice mix of philosophical and humorous observations, especially in the beginning, manage to capture the tone of an older person looking back on a long life. The beginning starts with John, the main character, entering a recruiter's office to review and sign his enlistment contract. It is a marvelous device, allowing John's internal commentary and reactions to provide needed background to the current political and technological setting. Scalzi's straightforward writing structure dovetails nicely with the factual tone the narrator originally takes in describing the journey on the recruit ship and the interactions with his shipmates. After undergoing his transformation, John loses a little of his emotional distance, gaining excitement with his new abilities. Scalzi's pseudo-informational promotional material regarding the BrainPal captures the humor of corporate-speak, but it's his scenes with the Master Sergeant that had me laughing out loud. His final words of praise: \"Don't let it go to your head, Private. You are still a dipshit. Just not a very big one.\" I found the introduction to new races to contain most of what I enjoy in space-roving books. I enjoyed the training segments and initial skirmishes and only wished they could be more fully described. It's always a challenge depicting a character's transformational process; while training can be repetitive, it's hard to believe the transformation into elite status unless details are shown. I felt the one awkwardness in the book was the section with the invasion of the Whaidians and Bender's efforts at diplomacy. Scalzi raises interesting philosophical issues that are somewhat at odds with the rest of the book, and are never really able to be resolved. Why isn't diplomacy pursued to a greater extent? Nonetheless, the rest of the story is well constructed, and Scalzi surprised me with integrating an emotional thread into the armed services experience. It was a satisfying read, and enough to lead me to his next book. \"They are four words that so inadequately and so perfectly sum up a life.\" Cross posted at: http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0... ...more This is an odd sort of book. Scalzi has a really neat central premise -- but the story gets lost up against it. The story is told in an oddly clinical fashion that leaves a sort of feeling that you're being given a report on story instead of the story itself. The story moves along briskly enough, but I'm left oddly unmoved by the protagonist's experience. It doesn't help that while the premise requires that the protagonist excel at warfare etc., he surpasses all expectations -- stuns his drillma This is an odd sort of book. Scalzi has a really neat central premise -- but the story gets lost up against it. The story is told in an oddly clinical fashion that leaves a sort of feeling that you're being given a report on story instead of the story itself. The story moves along briskly enough, but I'm left oddly unmoved by the protagonist's experience. It doesn't help that while the premise requires that the protagonist excel at warfare etc., he surpasses all expectations -- stuns his drillmaster, saves the day in a battle as a private, is the only survivor of an inescapable attack, forces his way onto an elite squad and impresses them too ... The protagonist himself is so unmoved by these achievements that it is only on looking back that I start to wonder if the guy has purple eyes and red hair (he doesn't *g*). The whole thing is done with a sort of detached air of nonchalance that doesn't really engage. Briskly paced, entertaining, cool world building (if a little lacking on detail) and oddly clinical. I'm not entirely sure I *liked* it. But it was a good read. ...more Old Man's War is about old people giving up their lives on earth to join the colonial forces as supersoldiers to help defend humanity. That's a solid premise that I can get behind. Old Man's War is, however, not written well. This book is bad. As I write this, I'm remembering that I only finished it to provide the most honest review. It was fun in spurts, but, on the whole, this book was, as I said, bad. The writing is pedantic at its best and horrid at its worst. Why do I keep expecting more fro Old Man's War is about old people giving up their lives on earth to join the colonial forces as supersoldiers to help defend humanity. That's a solid premise that I can get behind. Old Man's War is, however, not written well. This book is bad. As I write this, I'm remembering that I only finished it to provide the most honest review. It was fun in spurts, but, on the whole, this book was, as I said, bad. The writing is pedantic at its best and horrid at its worst. Why do I keep expecting more from Science Fiction? Why, oh why, do I injure myself so? I'll focus on one small issue and one large, big, huge issue. The former is the issue of the use of Old Men in Old Man's War, and the latter is the introduction of exposition. *** Caution: For Those Who Care, Minor Spoilers Ahead *** Old Man's Wars are fought by old men and women. That is true. The only thing young about them are their genetically-engineered bodies. So why do they all talk like wise-cracking 20-somethings, fresh off a network sitcom? I mean everyone, as well, from the good guys to the bad guys, the chicks and the dudes. Everyone, and I mean everyone, talks the same. They crack wise all the time. There's no flow, and everyone is just as adept as everyone else. It's no secret that the bar by which I judge books is painfully higher than that of the average reader, and I feel that that's a shame. So far, I really can't trust other people's ratings or reviews to give me a clue as to what's good. And, to be fair, I don't really find anything all that good. Which leads me (jarringly) to my second point: The exposition. FOR THE ENTIRE NOVEL, whenever the main character (who is just the same as everyone else) is kind of out of the loop, someone near him (who is just like him), postulates WITH INCREDIBLE ACCURACY as to the nature of the conundrum. What's with this ship? (wisecrack) Answered. (wisecrack) What's going to (wisecrack) happen to us? Answer. Ugh. There is no subtlety, no nuance, no story craft. There are parts of this novel that raise interesting points on the ideas of life and soul and existence, but for the most part, it's a scifi nerd's two-dimensional wet dream, complete with meaningless animalistic sex without any kind of lead-up or gender politics, and with everything drawing our hero in \"over his head,\" though he manages with identical ease in every situation. Lukewarm scifi at its most meh. Read this if you hate yourself and have no standards. 2 out of 6 ...more Military life in the future, fighting aliens over planets to colonize. The mysterious Colonial Defense Force recruits 75 year old men and women to fight its wars, and many sign up because some sort of second shot at youth is involved, and at this point in their lives they figure there's nothing to lose. But exactly what are they getting themselves into? And how is the CDF going to turn all these old farts into fighting machines? I was really proud of my deductive reasoning in figuring out that th Military life in the future, fighting aliens over planets to colonize. The mysterious Colonial Defense Force recruits 75 year old men and women to fight its wars, and many sign up because some sort of second shot at youth is involved, and at this point in their lives they figure there's nothing to lose. But exactly what are they getting themselves into? And how is the CDF going to turn all these old farts into fighting machines? I was really proud of my deductive reasoning in figuring out that this book was an homage to Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers , but then I realized I'm like the umpteenth millionth person to figure that out, and anyway there it is, right in Scalzi's acknowledgements at the end of the book. In any case, it's a lot less didactic and preachy, and much easier to read, than Heinlein's book (for me, anyway), if not as realistic about military life. There were some philosophical questions about war that I was expecting this book to grapple with in a more meaningful way, but the book kind of breezes past all of them, with just a nod to the question of \"Why are we fighting all these aliens anyway?\" Seriously, with all these alien races out there, are there no better ways to settle interstellar differences? I wish this had been addressed more deeply, and I'm not certain whether Scalzi just decided this isn't that kind of book, or whether he saved these issues for the sequels. Maybe I'll find out one of these times. Whatever the reason may be, if you hate war, this won't be your kind of book. So just understand that this is an action-packed, imaginative book with lots of violence, and have fun and roll with it. I started it yesterday, intending to read only a chapter or two, and ended up reading the whole thing, even though I have a shelf full of other books I meant to read first, which says something. It's kind of a great action movie. Except a book. But all books can't be War and Peace , and I think there will always be a place in my heart for the ones that are sheer fun and adrenaline. Kind of like how The Avengers is one of my favorite movies, even though it's not terribly profound. \"Puny god!\" Look!!! He's even green! Content advisory: Scattered F-bombs (duh, it's the military), lots of fighting and maiming, and one sex scene (not very explicit). ...more Review in Portuguese from Desbravando Livros : O que voc\u00ea faria se tivesse a op\u00e7\u00e3o de se alistar no ex\u00e9rcito aos 75 anos e voltar a ser jovem de novo? \u00c9 uma ideia no m\u00ednimo tentadora, correto? E foi pensando nisso que o protagonista de Guerra do Velho, John Perry , decide se juntar \u00e0s For\u00e7as Coloniais de Defesa (FCD) ao chegar nessa idade. Uma decis\u00e3o que a princ\u00edpio parece f\u00e1cil, j\u00e1 que voc\u00ea ter\u00e1 um corpo novinho em folha, habilidades aprimoradas, entre tantas outras vantagens, mas tudo isso tem um Review in Portuguese from Desbravando Livros : O que voc\u00ea faria se tivesse a op\u00e7\u00e3o de se alistar no ex\u00e9rcito aos 75 anos e voltar a ser jovem de novo? \u00c9 uma ideia no m\u00ednimo tentadora, correto? E foi pensando nisso que o protagonista de Guerra do Velho, John Perry , decide se juntar \u00e0s For\u00e7as Coloniais de Defesa (FCD) ao chegar nessa idade. Uma decis\u00e3o que a princ\u00edpio parece f\u00e1cil, j\u00e1 que voc\u00ea ter\u00e1 um corpo novinho em folha, habilidades aprimoradas, entre tantas outras vantagens, mas tudo isso tem um pre\u00e7o: voc\u00ea ser\u00e1 considerado morto na Terra, renegando todos os seus bens e heran\u00e7as, al\u00e9m de assinar um contrato de (pelo menos) 2 anos com as FCD, que pode ser ampliado para 10 m\u00edseros aninhos em caso de guerra com outras ra\u00e7as no espa\u00e7o. O que n\u00e3o \u00e9 dif\u00edcil de acontecer, como podemos notar em poucos cap\u00edtulos. Outra quest\u00e3o muito importante que ronda essa escolha de se juntar ao ex\u00e9rcito s\u00e3o as pr\u00f3prias For\u00e7as Coloniais de Defesa. Ningu\u00e9m sabe absolutamente NADA sobre elas, o que exatamente fazem, como s\u00e3o t\u00e3o evolu\u00eddas tecnologicamente, enfim, um segredo atr\u00e1s de outro. Somente estando l\u00e1 dentro para obter as respostas. Isso se voc\u00ea n\u00e3o for morto por algum alien antes disso. John Perry perdeu sua esposa h\u00e1 alguns anos e n\u00e3o hesitou em alistar-se, tornando-se assim o protagonista dessa hist\u00f3ria. As primeiras semanas a bordo de uma nave espacial s\u00e3o bem variadas, come\u00e7ando com a descoberta de como \u00e9 poss\u00edvel ser jovem novamente e as in\u00fameras vantagens por tr\u00e1s disso, passando por novas amizades com os Velharias (como eles pr\u00f3prios quiseram se chamar), at\u00e9 o in\u00edcio dos (\u00e1rduos) treinamentos para ser um verdadeiro soldado das FCD. Tudo isso regado a muito humor em praticamente todas as p\u00e1ginas, o que faz a leitura fluir mais que naturalmente. \u201cDamn real live people, getting in the way of peaceful ideals.\u201d Os personagens secund\u00e1rios s\u00e3o parte importante da trama, apesar de ter achado que alguns deles tiveram seus destinos selados de uma maneira muito r\u00e1pida. Nada que atrapalhe, no entanto. Quando \u00e9 chegada a hora de realmente descobrir como \u00e9 ser um combatente em outros planetas, quest\u00f5es como honra, respeito, e at\u00e9 a d\u00favida sobre ainda ser humano ou n\u00e3o v\u00eam \u00e0 tona, evidenciando um cuidado do autor em abordar esses temas da maneira mais realista poss\u00edvel . S\u00e3o pequenas coisas como essa que me atraem para uma obra, e Guerra do Velho est\u00e1 cheio disso! Os momentos de a\u00e7\u00e3o, sempre fren\u00e9ticos e tensos, combinados com as importantes e intrigantes informa\u00e7\u00f5es sobre as ra\u00e7as alien\u00edgenas presentes no universo, d\u00e3o uma din\u00e2mica excelente \u00e0 obra. Algumas dessas ra\u00e7as s\u00e3o extremamente inteligentes, a ponto de desenvolver sistemas de rastreamento in\u00e9ditos, enquanto outras parecem estar envolvidas em uma esp\u00e9cie de cruzada religiosa sem precedentes enquanto realizam seus ataques \u00e0s col\u00f4nias humanas da Uni\u00e3o Colonial. Outras realizam rituais meio macabros antes de iniciar as batalhas. Coisa de bicho doido, s\u00f3 pode. Ao sermos apresentados \u00e0 personagem Jane Sagan (gravem esse nome), j\u00e1 \u00e9 poss\u00edvel termos uma amostra do que as Brigadas Fantasma (Ghost Brigades) s\u00e3o capazes de fazer durante uma batalha. O t\u00edtulo do 2\u00ba livro \u00e9 justamente esse, ent\u00e3o j\u00e1 estou bem ansioso para botar as m\u00e3os nele e desbravar ainda mais dessa s\u00e9rie. John Scalzi \u00e9 de fato um daqueles caras que escrevem muito bem. \u201cI'm going to go pee. If the universe is bigger and stranger than I can imagine, it's best to meet it with an empty bladder.\u201d Li a vers\u00e3o em ingl\u00eas desse livro, mas pelo que vi em outras resenhas por a\u00ed, a tradu\u00e7\u00e3o da obra, feita pelo Pet\u00ea Rissatti, ficou muito boa. Sem contar que essa capa da Aleph \u00e9 muito bonita! Guerra do Velho \u00e9 a melhor leitura de 2016 at\u00e9 aqui. Nem precisava dizer muito mais que isso pra recomendar o livro a voc\u00eas, mas para aqueles que est\u00e3o procurando um protagonista show de bola, guerras espaciais e bons momentos de a\u00e7\u00e3o, esse lan\u00e7amento da Aleph \u00e9 o que mais promete. ...more I loved this book from start to finish. I loved the premise, loved the action, loved the protagonist, I even loved the aliens. And I'm confident a lot of the aliens would love me back - in a purely culinary kind of way. Set in the far future, Earth has branched out to colonize as much of the known Universe as possible for the survival and betterment of the human race. Unfortunately, we are not alone among the stars. Every form of intelligent life from here to the end of the space time continuum h I loved this book from start to finish. I loved the premise, loved the action, loved the protagonist, I even loved the aliens. And I'm confident a lot of the aliens would love me back - in a purely culinary kind of way. Set in the far future, Earth has branched out to colonize as much of the known Universe as possible for the survival and betterment of the human race. Unfortunately, we are not alone among the stars. Every form of intelligent life from here to the end of the space time continuum has pretty much the same idea. There is a cosmic land grab under way and every inch of interstellar real estate has to be contested and defended for any human colony to be viable. And that's where the Colonial Defence Force (CDF) comes in. A privatised military army whose sole purpose for being is to defend us from them (and to protect its patented technology and reserve all rights to profit from same without interference from any human or alien government etc etc .. refer to fine print at the bottom of the page blah blah blah). Of course, an expanding colonisation program requires an expanding military and so every human being anywhere has the opportunity to join up at the age of 75. You may wonder what use old farts are going to be where you have to out think, out fight, and out kill whatever monstrosity the universe throws our way. Well son, it just so happens, that the CDF is able to bio engineer you a brand new body, complete with a ten year warranty to ensure you are able to live a physically enhanced life as a Warrior of the Colonial Defence Force human race (disclaimer - 10 year warranty only extends to normal wear and tear or parts replacement due to faulty manufacture. Warranty will not cover you for beheading, liquification, or digestion in alien stomach fluids). So step right up! Sign up for the advancement and well being of your fellow man. Renew your youth. Enjoy superior health with insurance thrown in as an extra. See the colonies in the wider universe. These are just the benefits we are authorised to advise you of before you join. After you join you will of course be introduced to the bonus benefits - like having a reasonable chance of your face being sucked off by oversized mandibles, being impaled from below by burrowers, goupified by fungus, or if you are really lucky - starring in an episode of Galactic Iron Chef, where YOU are on the menu. So meet John Perry, our protagonist who, with nothing and no one left to live for, signs on the dotted line. We follow his progress from old fart to badass soldier as he embarks on a journey of rediscovering himself - Does his new life make him less human, or more than human? You'll have to decide for yourself. In the meantime suit up - grab your MP-35 and lock and load. Because we are going to have us some alien busting fun! Oohrah! An easy 4 stars and I'm off to grab the next book in the series. ...more Getting old sucks but as the old joke says, it\u2018s better than the alternative. However, what if there was a way to get to be young again? The catch is that if you do it, you\u2019ll probably die in some horribly bloody and spectacular fashion at the hands of aliens on a distant world. Any volunteers? In this terrific novel, humanity has spread out to the stars only to find that they\u2019re competing with several types of aliens for habitable planets. The Colonial Defense Force has been waging those wars an Getting old sucks but as the old joke says, it\u2018s better than the alternative. However, what if there was a way to get to be young again? The catch is that if you do it, you\u2019ll probably die in some horribly bloody and spectacular fashion at the hands of aliens on a distant world. Any volunteers? In this terrific novel, humanity has spread out to the stars only to find that they\u2019re competing with several types of aliens for habitable planets. The Colonial Defense Force has been waging those wars and gathering advanced technologies in the process. Needing volunteers, the CDF has a recruiting pitch that\u2019s hard to top. They\u2019ll take senior citizens from Earth and somehow make them young again. Survive the ten year enlistment, and the reward is getting set up on one of the colonized planets. John Perry is a widower who joins the CDF on his seventy-fifth birthday. He quickly learns how the CDF makes good on their promise to make soldier young again, and also finds out that the war they\u2019ll be fighting is incredibly brutal and that most won\u2019t survive their enlistments. The idea of humans fighting wars out in space with advanced technology is nothing new, but Scalzi did a great job of taking fresh approaches to this concept. The idea of an army made up of senior citizens is unique in itself, and the weapons and tech he came up with are also clever and inventive. It\u2019s filed with rip-roaring battle scenes, and the alien opponents he created are also several notches above what you usually get in these space war type books. But the real hook is here the outstanding job that Scalzi did with the characters, and the sense of humor that he weaves into the story. There\u2019s a lot of very funny stuff in this book amidst the interstellar war, and that\u2019s something that many sci-fi writers forget to include. I particularly loved how Scalzi took the standard war story scenes of the gruff old drill sergeant training the recruits and gave it a twist. I\u2019ll be checking out the sequels as soon as I can get my hands on them. ...more What would you do if you were given a chance to live longer, and have a new \"young\" body that is way better than the normal human body? The catch is, you're now a soldier, in a different planet, and you can never go back to Earth. Old Man's War was a very entertaining read, but it wasn't phenomenal. The main character is an old man, John Perry, yet he talked as if he was 30 years younger. I just didn't seem to connect with him, and all the other characters. It's not that they were all flat and bo What would you do if you were given a chance to live longer, and have a new \"young\" body that is way better than the normal human body? The catch is, you're now a soldier, in a different planet, and you can never go back to Earth. Old Man's War was a very entertaining read, but it wasn't phenomenal. The main character is an old man, John Perry, yet he talked as if he was 30 years younger. I just didn't seem to connect with him, and all the other characters. It's not that they were all flat and boring, but rather they were all just characters that I couldn't relate to. Not just because of their age, but also their humor. There were a lot of circumstances wherein the author tried to make the dialouge funny, but it just ended up looking pathetic [to me, unfortunately]. I know that a lot of people loved this novel, but it was just decent for me. Nothing to really be crazy about. The plot itself was also just decent. Almost half of the book talked about what will happen to Perry, and how it would happen. Then came the endless conversations he had with his crew. I get that character building is very essential, but if it's going to take up more than half of the novel, then that is just absurd. There were minimal action and the whole \"war\" was terribly boring and short. The novel's premise seemed to offer that the book's going to be about space-war, but it's all science talk in reality. Yes, I enjoyed the whole concept of being able to alter the human body into something better, but if the author's going to expound on that, then he shouldn't shorten the length of the war itself. The book has a title of \"Old Man's War\", but all I've read was \"Old Man's Life\". I'm not trying to show some pun there, but seriously, all I read about was his trying to adapt, and his past problems. More complaining than action. I also get that this is a space opera novel, but I've read quite a few other space operas that contained both drama and action. It just didn't satisfy my wants of reading a space-war novel. Overall the book was not that bad. I kinda liked Perry in the end of the novel, but this being a Sci-Fi-Military novel, I wanted more of the action, rather than the life of a soldier. 3.5/5 stars, and I'm still planning on reading the sequel in the future. I'm just hoping that the next book would contain more war than drama. ...more Awful. 'I did this cool thing, then I saved some people, then I single handedly rescued the mission, even though I was the least qualified, then I came up with this cool idea and got promoted. I was a green superhuman too.' So I finnnnnalllyyy got around to reading this, I have been meaning to for a fairly long time now. I'm definitely glad that I did read this too becuase although it's a short book for me, it actually worked super well as a military SF that I enjoyed (not something too common for me to be honest). This story drew me in fast and then kept me interested right the way through by following the character of John Perry, an old man who joins the Space Army in exchange for somehow becoming younger. I have So I finnnnnalllyyy got around to reading this, I have been meaning to for a fairly long time now. I'm definitely glad that I did read this too becuase although it's a short book for me, it actually worked super well as a military SF that I enjoyed (not something too common for me to be honest). This story drew me in fast and then kept me interested right the way through by following the character of John Perry, an old man who joins the Space Army in exchange for somehow becoming younger. I have to first say that the humour of this story really had me smiling a few times. There is one (I say this loosely...) 'character' called Asshole, and I had to chuckle at that rather crude naming every time we encountered him as it was just one of those funny things. I also think our main character had a great sense of wit and sarcasm to him and at many moments of the book he whipped these out and made it fun! The overall story here is certainly intriguing and as you go through you learn a lot more about the new capabilities of the world and the technologies. We see new aliens and also see lots of fighting in Space, which is done simply enough that I could follow and even enjoy these scenes at times. On the whole I liked the technology and characters the best here and even though I certainly was able to predict some of the 'reveals' I still really liked the book and kept wanting to read it whenever I wasn't able to. 4*s overall and I'll for sure continue the series :) Recommended ...more We all have regrets and things we wish we could do differently if life would allow it. What would you be willing to do to have an honest chance to live life over again? In Old Man's War that's not a philosophical question it's a real choice and one that many senior citizens take gladly. One such senior citizen is John Perry who on his 75th birthday chose to live his life over again. In order to get that second chance John joins the army, well the Colonial Defense Force (CDF) to be exact. The CDF We all have regrets and things we wish we could do differently if life would allow it. What would you be willing to do to have an honest chance to live life over again? In Old Man's War that's not a philosophical question it's a real choice and one that many senior citizens take gladly. One such senior citizen is John Perry who on his 75th birthday chose to live his life over again. In order to get that second chance John joins the army, well the Colonial Defense Force (CDF) to be exact. The CDF only takes the elderly for recruits and the elderly are only too happy for a shot to do things over again. No one knows exactly what to expect short of a 2 year minimum term in the CDF fighting aliens over planets to colonize. Anyone who survives their term gets the opportunity to colonize one of the planets they and their brethren bled to claim. Old Man's War has a remarkable concept in which the CDF only recruits the elderly to fight for them. The opportunity for a second chance is amazing as the recruits find out, but the work they're required to do is far deadlier than anyone could have imagined. As one of the military personnel so callously stated that after 10 years three quarters of the recruits would be dead, \"But remember back home, you most likely would have been dead in ten years, too frail and old, dying a useless death.\" There are tons of encouraging pep talks like this, in all honesty this was one of the more encouraging pep talks of the book. The first third of the book in many ways read like a comedy. A bunch of 75 year olds who just said and did what they want came together laughing, joking, and having a good time all while wondering how everything would go. This was the best part of the book to me. The remainder of the book focuses on the former geriatric recruits as they've been transformed into warriors. I don't want to get into details of the change because that is easily one of the most interesting parts of book. The rest of the book reads like any other generic sci-fi story. People fight aliens, aliens fight people, and when many of the aliens win they eat the people. I'm still disturbed by this story and if you're squeamish don't click the spoiler. (view spoiler) [ \"The colonists landed on a planet that was also a colonization target for the Salong; somewhere along the way the Salong decided that humans were good eatin', so they attacked the humans and set up a human meat farm. All the adult human males but a handful were killed, and those that were kept were 'milked' for their sperm. The women were artificially inseminated and their newborns taken, penned and fattened like veal.\" (hide spoiler) ] I felt sick just now reading and typing that out...I don't know why I bothered. Old Man's War has tons of creativity jammed into it starting with their remarkable concept. Some parts of the overall story don't make a ton of sense to me though. For example I don't understand why it's so crucial that the CDF goes around colonizing planets at all. At no point does the author inform us that the Earth has become dangerously over populated or that the natural resources have been exhausted so new resources must be found. One additional plot point made the concept seem a bit pointless, but as it's an important part of the end of the story I won't spoil it. All in all Old Man's War was an interesting story that kept me intrigued from beginning to the end. ...more 5 Five stars. Old Man's War by John Scalzi has been on my to read list for a very long time. Countless of my friends have recommended this book to me. After long while I finally read it. Wow is all I can say I'm totally blown away. To me and my taste this book is a perfect science-fiction novel. It really has it all. I was already a fan of Scalzi before reading this novel but now I can see him easily among my top favorite. So many things set this book apart from the competition. First, you do not 5 Five stars. Old Man's War by John Scalzi has been on my to read list for a very long time. Countless of my friends have recommended this book to me. After long while I finally read it. Wow is all I can say I'm totally blown away. To me and my taste this book is a perfect science-fiction novel. It really has it all. I was already a fan of Scalzi before reading this novel but now I can see him easily among my top favorite. So many things set this book apart from the competition. First, you do not have to have a physics or mathematics degree to enjoy this novel. That doesn't mean that this book is not filled with some great hard science concepts. It simply means that you do not have to hit the text books to understand what's going on. Second, you do not need months and months of time to read an overblown overlong space opera. This book felt just right. Finally, you do not have to wait year after year for the sequels to come out in order to make this a complete story. Old Man's War is the perfect type of science-fiction novel that I will recommend to all my friends. This book has it all. Space traveling, cool gadgets, kick ass aliens, high concepts, and of course humans too. John Perry is an amazing protagonist that we can all relate to and empathize with. He is a wise 76 year old man yet is young at heart. I love all the emotional connection that he brought to the story. Scalzi writes with a light hand on the comedy and the satire, but it is there to be found. He writes great characters and gives them memorable one liners. His world is a lot like our own and we can buy into his picture of the future, of the science,and of the aliens. A snippet of his style: \"\u201cExactly,\u201d he said. \u201cAnd as I stared at that ad, I had what some would call a Moment of Clarity\u2014I knew that what I needed was to just hit the fucking road. I divorced the evil slug of a wife, sang a song of thanks, packed my belongings into a saddlebag and lit out. Ever since that blessed day, Willie Wheelie has been my avatar, the symbol of my desire for personal freedom and expression. He saved my life, recruit, and I am forever grateful.\u201d\u201d A small passage that shows his sense of humor: \"\u201cBut I will tell you the one thing that pisses me off about you all: You pick the wrong fucking moments to get confessional.Three separate times I\u2019ve been fighting alongside a gay man when things have gone sour, and each fucking time he chooses that moment to tell me how he\u2019s always loved me. Goddamn, that\u2019s inappropriate. Some alien is trying to suck out my fucking brains, and my squad mate wants to talk about our relationship! As if I wasn\u2019t already busy. Do your squad mates a fucking favor. You got the hots, deal with it on leave, not when some creature is trying to rip out your goddamn heart. Now run!\u201d\u201d Scalzi explores all kinds of deep subjects, from love and death to religion and to what it means to be human. It all just worked perfectly. The main plot itself is almost pointless as it does not really come in to play until the last third of this book and that is just fine. The action is tight, and the dialogue is fun. I absolutely loved everything about this book. It will be on my reread list. It is definitely on my shout out list. I will tell all my science fiction friends to pick this one up. A MUST READ!!!!! ...more The first 100 pages or so of this book are absolutely fantastic. The Colonial Defense Forces recruit citizens of Earth on their 75th birthdays to fight with them against the various alien species threatening the series of colonies Earth needs because of population overflow, war, all the usual ways we\u2019ve fucked up the planet. Senior citizens sign up because the CDF promises to make them young again\u2014if they sign a contract to serve for ten years. And most of them will probably get gruesomely kille The first 100 pages or so of this book are absolutely fantastic. The Colonial Defense Forces recruit citizens of Earth on their 75th birthdays to fight with them against the various alien species threatening the series of colonies Earth needs because of population overflow, war, all the usual ways we\u2019ve fucked up the planet. Senior citizens sign up because the CDF promises to make them young again\u2014if they sign a contract to serve for ten years. And most of them will probably get gruesomely killed in that time. But at least they won\u2019t die old, right? All of this stuff is fascinating. I loved the set up, the procedure and world-building involved in John Perry, 75-year-old widower and retired ad writer, joining the army and making friends with his fellow recruits and going through pre-procedure tests and through the actual procedure (which I won\u2019t spoil) and the boot camp stuff that comes after. Scalzi describes the actual battles which follow with no less intensity, but once John starts fighting, the sense of who he is really gets lost. (I was actually waiting for that to be revealed to be part of the point , but it wasn\u2019t.) John just becomes A Soldier, almost instantly. Besides his sense of loyalty and his lingering feelings about his dead wife, there\u2019s very little left to connect him to who he used to be. It\u2019s mentioned several times that John and his wife protested the big war on Earth, but John seems almost entirely unconcerned with the unquestioning massacre of various alien species. I must admit, it started to make me a liiiiiitle uncomfortable. Scalzi has said that his inspiration for this book was Robert Heinlein \u2019s Starship Troopers , and this book, I think, faces a lot of the same problems I\u2019ve heard are inherent in that one. (I haven\u2019t actually read it, so if I\u2019m way off base, please tell me.) Both, I believe, walk the line between criticizing war and glorifying it, and so whatever message results is kind of muddled. I got the most enjoyment out of Old Man\u2019s War when I, well, just tried not to think about it too much. Not an attitude I usually endorse, but there you go. Still, the underlying sci-fi concepts in this book\u2014the stuff about identity\u2014are really interesting; I am anxious to get my hands on the sequel, even if it means I\u2019ll have to turn off my brain for a while. Or at least the hard-working liberal guilt section. ...more Rating: 5/5 Old Man's War is one of the first adult sci-fi I've ever read (could be the first one too) and it was pure awesomeness. John Scalzi managed to create a setting and characters that really made me get lost in the story. This is the story of John Perry, a 75-year-old who decides to join the Colonial Defense Force. It seems like people managed to colonize other galaxies but they are not the only ones and in order to protect their colonies and create new ones they need a army of 75-year-ol Rating: 5/5 Old Man's War is one of the first adult sci-fi I've ever read (could be the first one too) and it was pure awesomeness. John Scalzi managed to create a setting and characters that really made me get lost in the story. This is the story of John Perry, a 75-year-old who decides to join the Colonial Defense Force. It seems like people managed to colonize other galaxies but they are not the only ones and in order to protect their colonies and create new ones they need a army of 75-year-olds modified people from Earth to fight for them. John, along with over a hundred more people embark in this unforgettable journey. They get through tests, they get a new modified body (with green skin nonetheless) and join the CDF. John Scalzi did an amazing job with the science in this book. I love math and computers and anything that has to do with science so I loved reading about what the colonies created and how they traveled and fought. Jumping from spaceship to spaceship, fighting against alien species, landing in new planets, this book was perfection. I just can't wait to read the next one. ...more Eu amo a uni\u00e3o de fic\u00e7\u00e3o cient\u00edfica e temas militares, e com esse livro n\u00e3o foi diferente. Foi uma leitura muito gostosa, r\u00e1pida e que me entreteve demais. A hist\u00f3ria \u00e9 bem interessante e o universo criado pelo autor \u00e9 surpreendente \u2014 inclusive acredito que seja o ponto mais forte do livro. Toda a ci\u00eancia, a tecnologia, os planetas e as formas de vidas criadas me interessaram do come\u00e7o ao fim. John escreve muit\u00edssimo bem e pinta o cen\u00e1rio de forma fant\u00e1stica. A primeira coisa que me surpreendeu f Eu amo a uni\u00e3o de fic\u00e7\u00e3o cient\u00edfica e temas militares, e com esse livro n\u00e3o foi diferente. Foi uma leitura muito gostosa, r\u00e1pida e que me entreteve demais. A hist\u00f3ria \u00e9 bem interessante e o universo criado pelo autor \u00e9 surpreendente \u2014 inclusive acredito que seja o ponto mais forte do livro. Toda a ci\u00eancia, a tecnologia, os planetas e as formas de vidas criadas me interessaram do come\u00e7o ao fim. John escreve muit\u00edssimo bem e pinta o cen\u00e1rio de forma fant\u00e1stica. A primeira coisa que me surpreendeu foi o ritmo que a escrita trouxe. Super flu\u00eddo e peculiar (principalmente porque, algumas vezes, ele pula um grande per\u00edodo de tempo e te joga uma bomba como se nada tivesse acontecido). Dessa forma, a hist\u00f3ria avan\u00e7a sem muito padr\u00e3o. Voc\u00ea nunca sabe o que esperar a seguir. Por\u00e9m, o livro n\u00e3o foi perfeito. Algumas coisas me incomodaram: primeiro o desprendimento dos personagens causado pela trama. N\u00e3o tive tempo suficiente pra me apegar a nenhum al\u00e9m do protagonista, porque a \"rotatividade\" de personagens foi alta demais. N\u00e3o me dei ao trabalho de decorar o nome da grande maioria, porque sabia que logo j\u00e1 teriam sa\u00eddo da hist\u00f3ria. Achei isso um pouco chato, mas... paci\u00eancia, n\u00e9? (Vale ressaltar que, de qualquer forma, achei v\u00e1rios deles bem interessantes.) A segunda coisa \u00e9 que a trama me pareceu um pouco sem rumo na metade do livro. Eram apenas descri\u00e7\u00f5es de eventos que n\u00e3o faziam muita diferen\u00e7a. MAAAS, como eu gostei tanto do universo, continuou sendo uma leitura agrad\u00e1vel da mesma forma. O final me agradou bastante e, apesar de serem 5 livros, traz uma conclus\u00e3o satisfat\u00f3ria sem um cliffhanger for\u00e7ado. Quando voc\u00ea termina, voc\u00ea n\u00e3o quer ler o segundo porque ficou sem respostas e PRECISA saber de alguma coisa... voc\u00ea quer ler porque QUER MAIS e porque \u00e9 BOM. Gosto assim :) ...more Actual rating: 3.5 stars How do you fulfill a promise to tackle a complicated subject like human mortality and aging using believable science fiction tropes, exploring a premise of why septuagenarians would make excellent soldiers in a futuristic space war? Easy. You don't. Parallel Universe Old Man's War is really two books in one: Old Man and War . Old Man is a well written, thoughtful, and at times emotionally wrenching fictional memoir. It doesn't require a science fiction setting to make the re Actual rating: 3.5 stars How do you fulfill a promise to tackle a complicated subject like human mortality and aging using believable science fiction tropes, exploring a premise of why septuagenarians would make excellent soldiers in a futuristic space war? Easy. You don't. Parallel Universe Old Man's War is really two books in one: Old Man and War . Old Man is a well written, thoughtful, and at times emotionally wrenching fictional memoir. It doesn't require a science fiction setting to make the reader think about bereavement, reflection, and the inevitable question of, at the end of your life, what comes next? War is a Heinleinesque space romp full of aliens to be shot, blown up, and slashed, spaceship drives to be reverse engineered, and advanced theoretical physics like multi-verses to be explained. We've got a meta wink-and-nod to modern commercial trademarks as applied to advanced human implants and biological improvements, not to mention human enhancement agreements that are suspiciously similar to the ones twenty-first century computer users are familiar with when opening software packages. There's sex and humor and violence that's well written, fun, and thought-provoking. Shell Game But the bait and switch at the heart of the book is what keeps this from being a real classic. The moment the story stops being Old Man and turns to War is a bright, harsh line in the book and the two tracks are rarely integrated. The fact that John Perry is 75 years old is tangential to the action of the story and, in fact, age as a factor disappears within the first couple of chapters [not coincidentally, as soon as he gets the body of a twenty year old]. Perry could've been a twenty-year old for all the impact the story makes on him personally. Disappointingly, Scalzi dodges any character growth we could justifiably expect to see. As someone who's lived a full span, John should bring a lifetime of learning, wisdom, and experience to bear on the plot\u2026while having to overcome the prejudices, assumptions, and iron-clad beliefs of seventy-plus years. That's the point, right? Countless times, we've seen the bildungsroman of young Starship Troopers thrown into the fire, hopefully to come out the other side scarred, smarter, and more mature. But what happens when we're given the reverse, an old man who's been given a second chance? You won't find out here. The Carrot That's the bad. Here's the good: for all my ranting, OMW is still a great read. It's fun, fast, thoughtful in just the right way in many places. The twists are twisty and the revelations satisfying. And, not to be lost in the weeds, Scalzi has had so much success so quickly, it's hard to remember that this was a debut novel. For any failings I might be pointing out, it's an amazing debut and will justifiably find its way onto many Top 100 SF lists. Random Thoughts - From Scalzi's blog, Whatever , I know he's a thoughtful, compassionate person who spends a lot of time defending Good Things. So his (slight) brush-off of Perry's futuristic version of PTSD--brought on by alien genocide, no less--was perplexing and troubling. It's a short, semi-humorous chapter reminiscent of some Viet Nam war flick where hard-bitten GI's in the Phoenix program shrug off responsibility for torching a Viet Cong village. If the light treatment is meant via irony to actually convey a sense of horror and import, it falls flat. This is even more puzzling in the sense that a military SF novel is the perfect time and place to address serious real-world issues like genocide and PTSD, especially from the perspective of a 75 year-old who, had the author wanted to, been witness to both from his \"previous\" life. - Ditto, to a lesser extent, the sarcasm of the chapter about the former politician who tries diplomacy, rather than bullets, on an alien species. Having him ripped to shreds is gratuitous, low-hanging fruit, a cheap literary laugh. Maybe it wasn't the direction Scalzi wanted to go for his SF soldier romp, but it seemed unworthy of the book. - Maybe I didn't stress it enough, but the Old Man parts of the novel are the most redeeming sections and what really rescue it from being a run-of-the-mill SF first-person-shooter. Coming out of it is one of the sweetest pieces of pure writing I've seen in science fiction in a long time: I miss my wife. It's easier to miss her at a cemetery, where she's never been anything but dead, than to miss her in all the places where she was alive. Summary Old Man's War is well worth your time, even if you don't normally read science fiction. While Scalzi might dodge some of the very issues he raises, it's interesting that OMW will still make you think about them. It's a testament to just how good the book is that I can level some pretty serious philosophical criticisms at it\u2026and it still remains standing. I look forward to reading the rest in the OMW series and giving them the same work out. ...more ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . * In this universe, experience counts. * Guns don\u2019t kill people. The aliens behind the triggers do. John Perry is 75 years old, his wife is dead, and he has nothing left to live for. It\u2019s a perfect time to join the army, and the Colonial Defense Force is recruiting. They need a lot of loyal human bodies to maintain the universe colonization project, so their preference is to recruit old people, rejuvenate their bodies (nobody on Earth knows exactly how th ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . * In this universe, experience counts. * Guns don\u2019t kill people. The aliens behind the triggers do. John Perry is 75 years old, his wife is dead, and he has nothing left to live for. It\u2019s a perfect time to join the army, and the Colonial Defense Force is recruiting. They need a lot of loyal human bodies to maintain the universe colonization project, so their preference is to recruit old people, rejuvenate their bodies (nobody on Earth knows exactly how this happens), and train them to fight for the human race. Most of them will be dead within a few years, but that\u2019s all they were expecting on Earth anyway. The Colonial Defense Force gives them something valuable to do for humanity, and a chance for a new life. Old Man\u2019s War is one of the most enjoyable novels I\u2019ve read this year. The premise \u2014 old people being rejuvenated \u2014 makes for an excellent twist on the usual alien-fighting theme. The elderly, as opposed to the usual young heroes we find in so many speculative fiction novels, have had a lifetime to accumulate knowledge, skills, wisdom, and experience. I found John Perry and his cohort to be mature heroes whom I could admire and enthusiastically cheer for. I cried for them, too, as they lost each other or ruminated on past loves. Perry\u2019s explanation of why he missed being married was moving and reminded me of my graduate school days when I would have felt lonely and unsupported (and maybe quit) if it hadn\u2019t been for my husband\u2019s presence. Scalzi\u2019s villains, on the other hand \u2014 all those alien creatures \u2014 are absolutely horrifying! The humans usually have no idea what they\u2019ll find on a new planet, which is why their mortality rate is so high. It could be an insectoid creature with razors for hands, or a jumping slime mold, or a virus... The diversity of alien life that Scalzi has created adds suspense and terror to his story. Old Man\u2019s War is not a comedy, but it\u2019s often funny \u2014 very funny. I laughed hard and out loud many times. William Dufris, the narrator of the audiobook version I listened to, contributed to the humor by reading the funny parts in a perfect deadpan voice. Dufris was outstanding and I highly recommend Macmillan Audio\u2019s version. I will definitely be reading John Scalzi\u2019s other books in this series. Old Man\u2019s War was excellent. ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . ...more Not quite what I expected from the cover. In my experience of oil-paintings-of-planets-and-spacecraft covers, you tend to get pretty hard SF to go with them. This was more extra-firm tofu hard. The cover blurbs compared him to Heinlein, which was fair. The book has a couple of reveals, the first of which I genuinely did not see coming, and the second of which I saw coming for a while, so I'll separate my review into the bits I can talk about without spoiling and the spoilery bits. John Perry, the Not quite what I expected from the cover. In my experience of oil-paintings-of-planets-and-spacecraft covers, you tend to get pretty hard SF to go with them. This was more extra-firm tofu hard. The cover blurbs compared him to Heinlein, which was fair. The book has a couple of reveals, the first of which I genuinely did not see coming, and the second of which I saw coming for a while, so I'll separate my review into the bits I can talk about without spoiling and the spoilery bits. John Perry, the protagonist, is seventy-five when he joins the Colonial Defence Forces. Those recruited by the CDF never return to Earth, and are never heard from again. No one knows why the CF recruits senior citizens, and in fact, doesn't permit you to join younger than seventy-five, but the assumption is that they must have some kind of rejuvenation technology, because a seventy-five year-old isn't otherwise the ideal soldier. Although many things in this book are Heinlein-esque, Perry is much older than the average Heinlein protagonist, and noticeably wiser, (although perhaps not as smart) which was a bit of a relief. It's nice not to have to watch a protagonist make mistakes the reader can see coming. Yet, Perry is still enough of a risk-taker to step out into the unknown. SPOILERS FOLLOW This book has two different kinds of fridge problems. The first is what TV-Tropes calls fridge logic : those logical inconsistencies which don't particularly bother you until you're finished the book, and, in a moment of boredom, suddenly realize part of it makes no sense. It turns out that the CDF's plan for the elderly that it recruits is this: ten years before they reach the age necessary to join, they're signed, and given a rudimentary physical. Using materials culled from this physical, individual clone-bodies are prepared for them, and given significant upgrades. If, ten years later, these people still want to join (and are still alive), their consciousness is uploaded into their clone-bodies, and they become soldiers in war against any and every alien species that challenges or threatens the colonies. However, given the population they work with, some of the people who originally were recruited don't make it to seventy-five. In these cases, the bodies prepared for them are given a basic personality template, soaked in military learning, and become \"ghost forces,\" an elite company which have never known anything but war, and who are so well adapted to their specialized soldier-bodies that they use them more efficiently than anyone else ever could. In the case of the book, the Ghost Forces exist so that Perry can encounter a body grown from the DNA of his dead wife, Kathy. It was actually done much better than I expected-- as I said before, Perry is old enough not to be stupid. He doesn't harass Jane, the woman living in Kathy's body, or expect her to be Kathy, although he is fascinated by her. He quickly grasps that she's her own person, and treats her that way. However, the fridge-logic is this: if bodies without a personality upload are more effective soldiers, why bother with the personality upload? In fact, why bother with the DNA collection? Surely one could make a thousand, or a million soldiers with the same DNA, just as efficiently, if not more so? Why train soldiers who already have bad habits from a lifetime of living, and who have adapted themselves to Earth, when you can start fresh with someone who will only ever know war in space? I think the answer is \"it would be a different story.\" The other fridge problem is who goes in it: The soldiers are told when they go through basic, that the odds are against their survival, and indeed, most of the people Perry trains with die, including the explicitly homosexual Alan. Scalzi sort of seems to write about straight, white men, although there are generally enough others thrown in for representation's sake. It's mentioned that those from the Indian subcontinent are permitted to join the CDF earlier than seventy-five, presumably because their life expectancy is shorter. However, the only time that continent comes up is when a racist ass pontificates for the sole purpose of allowing Perry and another (white) recruit to bond over slapping him down. After they're popped into their new bodies, they're told racial divides have been abolished* since there is no longer any skin colour but green. (The new bodies are chlorophyll enhanced, among other changes.) I am somewhat sceptical of this. One of Scalzi's commanding officers is mentioned to be from South America: she dies. The Ghost Forces are named by a simple convention: a common first name, and the last name of significant philosopher or scientist. However, they seem to be given common English first names. I didn't notice any of them named Samir, or Jamila. The only non-English last names I noted were those of ancient Greeks. (I admit, I think a soldier named Gandhi would be hilarious, but probably somewhat offencive, so, perhaps just as well.) *(Although I should note that the person who makes this claim identifies himself as Latino, and doesn't, so far as I can recall, die.) ...more 2 Stars Overview: \u201cThe problem with aging is not that it's one damn thing after another\u2014it's every damn thing, all at once, all the time.\u201d I\u2019ve been a huge sci-fi mood for the last few weeks, so I was really looking forward to this one. The story revolves around 75-year-old John Perry, as he joins the army and begins fighting in intergalactic wars. It sounded like a lot of fun. Pros: This was really funny in places. Perry had a very sarcastic and dry humor about him, and though his jokes were ab 2 Stars Overview: \u201cThe problem with aging is not that it's one damn thing after another\u2014it's every damn thing, all at once, all the time.\u201d I\u2019ve been a huge sci-fi mood for the last few weeks, so I was really looking forward to this one. The story revolves around 75-year-old John Perry, as he joins the army and begins fighting in intergalactic wars. It sounded like a lot of fun. Pros: This was really funny in places. Perry had a very sarcastic and dry humor about him, and though his jokes were absurd at times, they felt necessary in this information-heavy story. This was filled with cool ideas. The main premise of an \u201cOld Man\u2019s War\u201d fought primarily by septuagenarians was fascinating. It opened a world of possibilities and interesting discussions about age, life, love and war--- and I couldn\u2019t wait to see where it went. Cons: And I\u2019m still waiting. This introduced a lot of ideas with a lot of different characters (including several species/races) but then never did anything with them. After a while, each chapter just started to feel like a new info-dump about some sort of technology or alien. Then it would make statements about age/class/love/whatever-it-was-that-chapter, but it would do so by throwing all of a character\u2019s backstory out there, and then having them make some vague and ominous declaration. Such as: \u201cThere has never been a military in the entire history of the human race that has gone to war equipped with more than the least that it needs to fight its enemy. War is expensive. It costs money and it costs lives and no civilization has an infinite amount of either. So when you fight, you conserve. You use and equip only as much as you have to, never more.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s a hell of a thing to say good-bye to your whole life.\u201d \"Each of you will fail, but you will fail in your own unique way, and therefore I will dislike each of you on an individual basis.\u201d The characters never really developed and the plot never went much of anywhere. To be frank, I was bored. In Conclusion: Interesting ideas, just not a lot of follow-through. ...more Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews In the future, mankind has finally spread out into the stars. Humans from overpopulated countries around the world taking to the stars routinely to found colonies on numerous worlds. There has been no new \u201crenaissance\u201d from this otherworldly exodus on mother Earth however. No change in the sociopolitical norms. Nothing different in the daily life of an average citizens of the United States or any other industrialized country. Indeed, most pay little atte Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews In the future, mankind has finally spread out into the stars. Humans from overpopulated countries around the world taking to the stars routinely to found colonies on numerous worlds. There has been no new \u201crenaissance\u201d from this otherworldly exodus on mother Earth however. No change in the sociopolitical norms. Nothing different in the daily life of an average citizens of the United States or any other industrialized country. Indeed, most pay little attention to the news that comes from beyond the globe. It does not affect their daily lives, which revolve around the normal things: getting married, going to work, raising children, and hoping to have enough savings to enjoy their old age. And, really, there is no need for people of Earth to concern themselves with \u201cout there\u201d anyway. That is what the Colonial Defense Force (CDF) does. It manages and controls everything to do with other world colonization. It is their bureaucrats who decide upon the individuals who take to the stars. Their space station which orbits the Earth. Their skip drive ships that leave from that station to transport both people and materials out into the vastness of space. The CDF even controls the flow of information from those colonies back to mother Earth. Under their supervision, the spread of mankind to the stars has become almost hoo-hum; nothing to get excited about at all. The only time when a citizen of a rich country even concerns themselves with the CDF is at age seventy-five. For at that age, you have finally become old enough to join the colonial armed forces. Why sit at home, feeling death creeping up upon you, and using up valuable resources when you could join the proud, the few, the colonial defense force!. You'll never see Earth again, but in return, you will experience the unknown wonders of the galaxy and be given back your youth. How the CDF restores you back to twenty years old is a mystery, but it is a great incentive for seniors to get out of their recliners and head to their local CDF recruiter. John Perry is one of those seniors who sees nothing for himself on Earth but a countdown to the grave. His beloved wife has already died, his only son is grown, and hanging around to be a granddad on traditional holidays doesn\u2019t hold any allure. Thus, he heads off to the CDF to see something of the colonies and - more importantly - to recapture his lost youth. Maybe his second chance at life will produce as much happiness as his first trip did. Once he rockets off into space for the nearest human colony, John begins to understand exactly what he has signed up for. The CDF was not lying when they intimated that he would be given back his youth. However, his old, worn out body must be discarded for a young, superhuman body that has been thoroughly tested and patented by the CDF technology division. This new body is genetically modified and enhanced by nano-technology and alien dna. (Not to mention that it is green.) But the worst part is that all these modifications of his frail, human form have been made for the simple reason that otherwise he would have no chance to survive his tour of duty in the CDF! The galaxy is a very dangers place if you are a human, John learns. The CDF has been guarding the Earth all these centuries, protecting it not only from the aliens\u2019 menace but also from the realization that the majority of the galaxy views mankind as a tasty snack. An animal to be captured, breed, fattened up and then savored at dinner with a nice, white wine. That is why the CDF has hidden the truth from people on Earth. Why they only recruit old people who have already had a chance to live their life. The reason John Perry and his friends \u201cThe Old Farts\u201d onboard their outbound ship have to shed their ignorant bliss and become soldiers. Because now that Earth is in the rear view mirror, they are not on top of the food chain anymore! I\u2019m sure this sounds eerily similar to Heinlein\u2019s Starship Troopers for many of you, but Old Man\u2019s War is very different than that revered novel. Scalzi\u2019s work would be better labeled a military science fiction novel for readers who do not like reading military fiction or trying to understand scientific theory. Oh, there is a bit of both here: chapters dealing with military training and skirmishes and others where \u201ctheoretical\u201d explanations are given to some basic, future technology. However, Mr. Scalzi never spends much time with either subject, merely introduces enough information to keep you in the \u201cknow\u201d and continuing on with the story of John Perry. And a wonderful story it is. John Perry quickly becomes one of those ordinary guys who turns into a natural \"hero,\" not because he is gifted above his friends or finds some alien technology that gives him an edge but because he uses his wits and is lucky. He alternates between grieving for his beloved wife who died years ago to being a good friend to the other \u201cOld Farts\u201d whom he met on his recruitment ship to trying to survive as a grunt in the trenches of a war with countless aliens. Mr. Scalzi writes each facet of our heroes story superbly, making a reader both understand and empathize with him all along the way. Of course, there are problems with this novel; there always are. Here Perry becomes the person who always has the epiphany which saves the day. He is the guy who always survives the grenade event though he was closest to it. The foot soldier that is honored by his enemies even though he is a nobody in the trenches. When a plot line late in the novel involves a person from John\u2019s past, it doesn\u2019t surprise anyone that once again fortune has smiled upon him. Simply put, it is good to be John Perry in Old Man\u2019s War, and that does distract from the overall tone of the narrative a bit. Even with these annoyances, Old Man\u2019s War was a joy to read. The writing was clear and concise, easy to consume, and John Perry\u2019s journey from ignorant, protected Earthman to wise, veteran soldier of the Colonial Defense Force was a joy to read. I could barely put it down when I read it, and I am sure you will do the same if you give it a try. So stop reading this review already and go get a copy of the book. ...more I love this guy! It's been a long time since I sat down and read some straight-forward science fiction, and Scalzi seems to have a direct feed to the recorded consciousness of the late great Robert Heinlein. Old Man's War introduces us to John Perry, a seventy-something earth man who has nothing to live for after the death of his wife, so he signs up for the army. You see, in the future, you can either die when you get old, or you can join the Colonial Defense Forces, get a new body designed for I love this guy! It's been a long time since I sat down and read some straight-forward science fiction, and Scalzi seems to have a direct feed to the recorded consciousness of the late great Robert Heinlein. Old Man's War introduces us to John Perry, a seventy-something earth man who has nothing to live for after the death of his wife, so he signs up for the army. You see, in the future, you can either die when you get old, or you can join the Colonial Defense Forces, get a new body designed for combat, and explore the galaxy protecting humanity. Only one problem: it's a hostile universe, and your chances of survival are slim to none. Scalzi's story is addictively readable. His dialogue crackles and he balances just the right amount of humor and pathos to keep his characters real in a very unreal world. After finishing Old Man's War, I went straight out and bought the sequel, The Ghost Brigades, which is every bit as good. I'm now starting in on book three, The Last Colony. I'm also very much looking forward to his forthcoming book in June, Redshirts, which is a send-up of Star Trek. You know, the guys in the red shirts always die. My older son Haley, 17, is reading this series along with me, and also loves it. Thanks, Mr. Scalzi, for some father-son geek bonding! ...more Moja prva space opera pa sam mo\u017eda pogre\u0161na osoba da u detalje sudim ovu pri\u010du . Zbog toga \u0107u ukratko. Ja sam veoma zadovoljan . Knjiga pr\u0161ti finim idejama i po meni je presmije\u0161na pri\u010da u nekim dijelovima ( pogotovo Master Sergeant Antonio Ruiz . Zbog njega je suza suzu gonila od smijeha ) Cjelokupno gledaju\u0107i je prvi dio knjige \u010dista 5* , dok je ostatak nekako u sjeni toj prvog dijela , pa zato od mene samo 3* . Sve u svemu , lijepa pri\u010da , lako se \u010dita i ni trenutak nije dosadna . 4 stars", "Title": "Old Man's War"},
