{"Comments": "\"I am <---A>Tom Wolfe</---A>... \" and therefore I can write whatever I want. And people will still buy my over-long, thinly-developed, poorly-constructed tirade against 'kids these days.<---F>' It's called a stereotype, Tom</---F>. You should probably avoid making all your characters painfully simple cardboard cutouts of actual people. And I'm pretty sure I've seen all of these before, in EVERY movie and book about \"college\" ever produced. To inventory: - The main protagonist, the archetypical smart girl who's better looki \"I am Tom Wolfe... \" and therefore I can write whatever I want. And people will still buy my over-long, thinly-developed, poorly-constructed tirade against 'kids these days.' It's called a stereotype, Tom. You should probably avoid making all your characters painfully simple cardboard cutouts of actual people. And I'm pretty sure I've seen all of these before, in EVERY movie and book about \"college\" ever produced. To inventory: - The main protagonist, the archetypical smart girl who's better looking than she realizes. - The big dumb jock who's smarter than he realizes - The beautiful-but-evil roommate - The nerdy reporter for the school paper - The obnoxious, privileged frat boy - And a whole host of minor supporting characters... as the secretary from Ferris Bueller put it,<---M> a cast of \"sportos</---M>, motorheads, geeks, sluts, bloods, waistoids, dweebies, and d!ckheads.\" Along with rednecks, the new england rich, and a smattering of other cellophane-thin stereotypes. This book isn't quite satire, it isn't quite commentary, isn't remotely insightful, but it is awfully long. It has that going for it. ...more Sigh. 771 pages. Talking about college. How college is shocking for sheltered girls. How college (shocker) isn't really about academia, but sports, beer, sex, and pretty much everything that the university brochures lie about in order to protect their reputations and continue charging $30,000 a year for an \"education.\" This could be written by ANYONE, and in less than HALF the pages. When a book is bad, and too long, there is a certain point in reading the same shit over and over when your mind ju Sigh. 771 pages. Talking about college. How college is shocking for sheltered girls. How college (shocker) isn't really about academia, but sports, beer, sex, and pretty much everything that the university brochures lie about in order to protect their reputations and continue charging $30,000 a year for an \"education.\" This could be written by ANYONE, and in less than HALF the pages. When a book is bad, and too long, there is a certain point in reading the same shit over and over when your mind just screams SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP!. This happened to me about half way through when I got sick of even the most random characters who appear only once in the story, having their entire family histories mapped out for the reader since the 1800's. Filler? Some sort of psychological explanation of the character? NO. BORING. EDITOR?? WHERE ARE YOU!? CUT THIS SHIT. Also, we don't need every single regional accent spelled out for us. Charlotte is from the South. We don't need to be reminded after the says \"get\" that she pronounces it \"git.\" We don't need to be told that a dude from Brooklyn says \"what do you want?\" and then have it rewritten again after the quote as \"whaddaya want?\". Fuck me. If that wasn't enough, can we stop this shit of \"shooting looks that are as if to say....\"? He shot her a look as if to say fuck you, she shot him a look as if to say I hate you, etc. UGH. Granted, this book did get the Bad Sex Award in 2003. But since it doesn't even happen until page 2394875485723847, it's not just BAD, it's boring. How anyone managed to FIND this bad sex without skimming over it or simply falling asleep is completely beyond me. I'm shocked that this didn't get the Bad Book Award of 2003. If you want a good, engaging, and true-to-life story about a fish out of water in her academic environment, read Curtis Sittenfeld\u2019s novel Prep . Use <+++>I am Charlotte Simmons</+++> only for expensive toilet paper or to stop a bullet. Sucked. ...more Yawn or cringe? Eye roll? So imagine your grandpa takes you out to the Dog 'n Suds for a root beer float. He goes on to tell you about what life was like at college - not for him but for you. He sprinkles in terms like \"phat\" and \"shorty\" and \"rad\" and \"rutting\" throughout his tale. Grandpa has been dipping into the Dictionary of American Youth Slang written by the Youth Minister at his church, who has covered the volume in a plain black cover lest it fall into the hands of the few blessed innoc Yawn or cringe? Eye roll? So imagine your grandpa takes you out to the Dog 'n Suds for a root beer float. He goes on to tell you about what life was like at college - not for him but for you. He sprinkles in terms like \"phat\" and \"shorty\" and \"rad\" and \"rutting\" throughout his tale. Grandpa has been dipping into the Dictionary of American Youth Slang written by the Youth Minister at his church, who has covered the volume in a plain black cover lest it fall into the hands of the few blessed innocents out there, people like Charlotte Simmons, who would only become distraught at how _dirty_ and crude people are. The point of all of this? Grandpa wants to make sure you know that college is a place of wildly raging hormones, cliques one hoped would have magically disappeared once the threshhold of the high school's doors have been crossed one last time, and LOTS of liquor. You know, in case you missed it on your trip through. He also wants to be sure you know what kind of bullet you dodged at your alma mater and how relieved you should be about it. *ahem* Don't forget to let Grandpa know that he has dribbled ketchup all down his white suit while talking. You don't want him to be embarrassed by himself, now do you? ________ Disclaimer: The grandpa (Tom Wolfe-like)in this account is fictitious (sorta) and bears no resemblance whatsoever to the author's own grandpa, with the exception of the love of a good A&W root beer float. ...more A friend once told me that the band Yes amounted to nothing more than musical masturbation. I punched him in the face and choked his neck until he relented and said \"Prog rock rules.\" After reading I Am Charlotte Simmons, I feel bad about treating him that way. Because I see what he meant. I Am Charlotte Simmons amounted to nothing more than literary masturbation. Tom Wolfe seems to have absorbed everything he could about a number of subjects: college life, collegiate speech patterns, namely, \"fuc A friend once told me that the band Yes amounted to nothing more than musical masturbation. I punched him in the face and choked his neck until he relented and said \"Prog rock rules.\" After reading I Am Charlotte Simmons, I feel bad about treating him that way. Because I see what he meant. I Am Charlotte Simmons amounted to nothing more than literary masturbation. Tom Wolfe seems to have absorbed everything he could about a number of subjects: college life, collegiate speech patterns, namely, \"fuck patois,\" neuroscience, social climbing, and intellectual v. jock v. frat boy behavior. After absorbing said information, he ejaculated it onto 688 pages and called it a novel. I like books that leave an impact on my life. The only thing that changed for me after reading this was that I deleted a certain guy's name from my phone and replaced it with the label \"Frat-tastic,\" so I would never forget he was nothing but a bad caricature of frat boy from a Tom Wolfe novel. ...more This was far too long. When I am 200 pages into a book, I do not want a 50 page background on a character that probably wont matter anyway. Read The Rules of Attraction or The Sorrows of Young Mike if you want to know about college kids. Tom Wolfe is for people who have a lot of time on their hands. Wolfe could not seem to decide whether he wanted Charlotte Simmons to be a satire or a legitimate zeitgeist piece. Thus, the characters come off as caricatures to ill effect. Wolfe should take a page from Sinclair Lewis, who somehow managed to write biting satire with still-believable protagonists at the helm. Wolfe could have also gone all out and just made this an absurd piece of literature, but he clearly intended to use this book as a revelation on modern college life. In Wolfe's defense: Thou Wolfe could not seem to decide whether he wanted Charlotte Simmons to be a satire or a legitimate zeitgeist piece. Thus, the characters come off as caricatures to ill effect. Wolfe should take a page from Sinclair Lewis, who somehow managed to write biting satire with still-believable protagonists at the helm. Wolfe could have also gone all out and just made this an absurd piece of literature, but he clearly intended to use this book as a revelation on modern college life. In Wolfe's defense: Though I think there are legitimate criticisms of Charlotte Simmons, the most frequent one, the \"look at how this prude old guy is so freaked out by young people today\" criticism is problematic on several levels. First: it is possible for an author to create an authentic protagonist with whom s/he has little in common. Take Mark Twain's feat of writing from the perspective of a boy in Huck Finn or Sinclair Lewis's believable boob Babbitt in the eponymous book. Wolfe may come from a different generation than his characters, but this does not preclude him from channeling universal emotions through his characters, emotions like self-doubt, alienation, etc. A favorable reviewer on Amazon rightly pointed out that those who criticize Wolfe for not getting this current generation are missing the point. Wolfe is asking the reader to step outside the decadent conventions of this group in order to question why it they are so blindly accepted. To dismiss him because he seems so shocked! by the generation he portrays is to buy into the legitimacy of this (my) generation's norms. Like so many American novels before it, I Am Charlotte Simmons indicts complacent conformity. Perhaps it's easier to recognize these themes in novels where the author is skewering the prudish, straight-laced yesmen rather than the indulgent, counter-traditional ones, but both societies signify rigidity and intolerance towards deviating norms. The pendulum has just shifted in the sense that polite conversation is now quite hospitable to the impolite, but now the diplomat is the odd man out. Being different is hard, whether you're a wandering musician in 1950s America or an intellecutally curious girl from a quiet mountain town in millenial America. My biggest issue: I am most disappointed with how unedited I Am Charlotte Simmons seems at times. Wolfe could have pared this book down a lot. He simply writes too much, sometimes mercilessly belaboring his point. Still, I think the generic criticisms of this book are ignorant of a novel's purpose. ...more I came to I Am Charlotte Simmons with trepidation. I had read the reviews that likened Wolfe to a voyeur and questioned his motivation in spending years \"observing\" typical college students fifty years his junior. It seemed creepy. But when I saw it in the bargain bin, I couldn't resist, and as it turned out, I couldn't put the thing down. Wolfe is a great writer and storyteller, and although there are some weird things about the book, like his linguistic obsessions over current uses of profanit I came to I Am Charlotte Simmons with trepidation. I had read the reviews that likened Wolfe to a voyeur and questioned his motivation in spending years \"observing\" typical college students fifty years his junior. It seemed creepy. But when I saw it in the bargain bin, I couldn't resist, and as it turned out, I couldn't put the thing down. Wolfe is a great writer and storyteller, and although there are some weird things about the book, like his linguistic obsessions over current uses of profanity, he presents a compelling story and a fascinating character in Charlotte. Charlotte, a brilliant student from the impoverished, rural North Carolina, earns a scholarship to the prestigious Dupont University, and dreams of intellectual stimulation unlike she has ever known. Instead, she finds a world of wealth, privilege, and debauchery. Although she wants to play the games of sexual intrigue of her classmates, she has none of the requisite accompanying hardness and cynicism, so her efforts are personally devastating. Wolfe deftly tackles big themes--purity, vanity, greed, social class. He may have gotten some of the details wrong, and if you are currently a college student I'm sure you will find much with which to quarrel, but the bigger story is superb. ...more Fuck me. I thought everyone was overreacting and being all tight-assed about this book for some reason, and I know one or two people who like this book, so I thought I'd give it a shot, but holy fuck... This book really is an 80 year old white Southern guy's 700+ page rant about kids these days . Tom Wolfe supposedly did years of research for this book to capture the social reality of college, but I guess he was too busy banging undergrads to really pay attention to what was going on around him b Fuck me. I thought everyone was overreacting and being all tight-assed about this book for some reason, and I know one or two people who like this book, so I thought I'd give it a shot, but holy fuck... This book really is an 80 year old white Southern guy's 700+ page rant about kids these days . Tom Wolfe supposedly did years of research for this book to capture the social reality of college, but I guess he was too busy banging undergrads to really pay attention to what was going on around him because this is completely fucking retarded on every conceivable level . It bears almost no relationship to social reality. Which is a HUGE FUCKING PROBLEM when you make it your stated goal to be our time's Charles Dickens. Look, I get it, he's asking us to step outside the norms to question the norms, but HE GETS THE NORMS WRONG BECAUSE HE'S A FUCKING DULLARD AND APPARENTLY PAID NO ATTENTION TO ANYTHING. So he's asking us, really, either to question NONEXISTENT FUCKING NORMS or to question NORMS WE'VE ALREADY QUESTIONED. if the point of this book is that frat kids suck, dorms are a nightmare, and people do stupid shit, guess what, Tom 'Fuck-You-Look-At-My-Suit' Wolfe? WE FUCKING GET IT. WE DON'T NEED A STUPID FUCKING 700 FUCKING PAGE RANT ABOUT IT, YOU FUCKING IDIOT. YOU. FUCKING. IDIOT. And also, I hate to be one of those guys , but there is NO FUCKING ARTISTRY IN THIS MOTHERFUCKER. I will not accept the dogma of 'show don't tell' and other writing class cliches, but maybe Tom Wolfe should have before writing this piece of fucking shit. Get this, folks: this entire book is Tom Wolfe telling us what's happening and what characters are thinking . The entire book . In other words, he writes LIKE A FUCKING SIX YEAR OLD. FUCK YOU, TOM WOLFE, AND FUCK EVERYONE WHO LIKES THIS BOOK. Lastly, 'fuck patois,' seriously? Fucking seriously ? Tom Wolfe, responsible for much excellent journalism, has become a worse novelist than Steph Meyer. Good job. This might be the single worst novel I've ever read. ...more Halfway through Tom Wolfe's enormous new novel about contemporary college life, I finally devised a question to keep my interest piqued: \"Is it humanly possible,\" I wondered, \"to write another 100 pages - another 200 pages, another 300 pages - without describing a single surprising event?\" It is. With \"I Am Charlotte Simmons,\" Wolfe has ventured onto the university campus and sent back reams of hyperventilating testimony: College students are slovenly and crude. They drink way too much. They liste Halfway through Tom Wolfe's enormous new novel about contemporary college life, I finally devised a question to keep my interest piqued: \"Is it humanly possible,\" I wondered, \"to write another 100 pages - another 200 pages, another 300 pages - without describing a single surprising event?\" It is. With \"I Am Charlotte Simmons,\" Wolfe has ventured onto the university campus and sent back reams of hyperventilating testimony: College students are slovenly and crude. They drink way too much. They listen to obscene music. They engage in casual and exploitative sex. They put their feet on the furniture - even leather sofas and fine woodwork. But wait, there's more: College students would rather socialize than study. It's all right here, spelled out in tones of amazement, like George H.W. Bush telling us about those new scanners at the grocery store. If you haven't seen \"Animal House\" or anything on the WB, you'll be surprised to learn that collegiate society is divided between \"jocks\" and \"nerds.\" The jocks are very athletic, but not very smart, whereas the nerds are very smart, but not very athletic. Am I going too fast? To write this novel, Wolfe claims that he \"had only to reassemble the material he had accumulated visiting campuses across the country,\" a technique that may explain the book's superficiality. This isn't the anthropology of the Ordinary - a potentially revelatory approach; it's just a dramatization of clich\u00e9s. Even the style lacks Wolfe's usual verve. He's particularly interested in the way modern Americans talk, but in his Rip Van Winkle voice, we get endless explanations and reenactments of what he calls the \"undergraduate vocabulary,\" a discovery he highlights in a brief dedication to his children. Most of the dialogue is written in a profane patois that Wolfe spells out as though he's recording the grunts and clicks of a lost dialect from Inner Mongolia. But he has nothing to add to Norman Mailer's far more daring analysis of American profanity some 40 years ago in \"Armies of the Night.\" Even more tedious than the affected slips of Southern and African-American dialects are his needless parenthetical translations: I can't (cain't) stand them('em). And when characters yell at each other, their words are written in caps so that we know THEY'RE SPEAKING VERY LOUDLY. The story follows the rise and fall of Charlotte Simmons, a brilliant country bumpkin from Sparta, N.C., (pop. 900), who wins a scholarship to Dupont University, one of the most prestigious institutions in the country. Charlotte's parents are simple folk, devout Christians, who have instilled in their daughter a deep sense of morality. They don't drink, swear, put on airs, or take no stock in your highfalutin citified ways. Along with a devoted teacher at school, they have instilled in Charlotte a sense of her exceptionalism that inspires the novel's title, which is also a sort of inspirational mantra for the heroine. Charlotte heads off to Dupont University expecting to enter the august halls of academe, but she quickly finds that it's a brothel, seething with vain, vicious girls and crude, drunken boys. Her snobby roommate won't have anything to do with her. The coed bathrooms are an abomination. Athletes on the basketball team don't take their classes seriously. And hunky frat boys pretend to be interested in your mind, but they're interested in only one thing. (I won't spoil it for you.) Poor Charlotte is consumed with loneliness and confusion. Everyone mocks her clothes, her naivet\u00e9, her virginity, her tee-totaling. Professors recognize her brilliance, but brilliance doesn't matter in this marketplace of drunken flesh. So, how can she resist when the hottest boy on campus asks her to the Spring Formal? (Wolfe Note: The term \"hottest\" is not a reference to the temperature of his body, but to the developed musculature of his body, which, along with a number of male bodies in this book, is described with slobbering attention.) Meanwhile, one of the nerds who works for the school paper (where else?) is pursuing a scandal that could rock American politics, but don't worry about that potentially interesting thread; it never leads off campus - or toward anything. The only issue that develops some traction in this novel is race. Wolfe explored that more profoundly in \"The Bonfire of Vanities\" and \" A Man in Full ,\" but his portrayal here of the racial tensions on the college basketball court is engaging. He shows a sport played largely by black men for the entertainment of white fans in an academic setting that contorts its principles to keep the whole industry going. The cynical coach reaps millions; the pasty professor growls about academic standards; the expedient college president maintains an uneasy truce. All these characters play to type, but at the center of this subplot is a white basketball star who feels threatened by the talent and aggression of black players all around him. Why, he wonders, do they have access to a whole range of words and stances that are forbidden to him? What's more, he's starting to feel attracted to a life of the mind that he can just barely imagine. But this minor development is buried in a variety of borrowed plot lines, including a climactic bit of satire about political correctness that might have been sharp 20 years ago. The problem isn't really the inclusion of so many clich\u00e9 characters; sadly, there are plenty of real students who fall into these categories. What's galling about this novel is its persistent lack of nuance, its reduction of the whole spectrum of people on a college campus to these garish primary colors. Wolfe wrote a much discussed essay for Harper's in 1989, \"A Literary Manifesto for the New Social Novel.\" Instead of the cerebral games that now pass for fiction, he argued, American novelists should \"head out into this wild, bizarre, unpredictable, Hog-stomping Baroque country of ours and reclaim it as literary property.\" This is good advice. When he took it, he hog-stomped out two baroque novels, first about New York and then about Atlanta. But cooped up on campus with \"Charlotte Simmons\" he's too predictable and too late to reclaim anything of interest. http://www.csmonitor.com/2004/1109/p1... ...more Any girl who has ever gone through the journey of the small liberal arts big name college will know parts of Charlotte in ways that take them back to times and insecurities that are far better left forgotten. Charlotte, the brain trust of her small town, enters the world of the privledged \"it's mine because I'm entitled to it\" college student. It should be a coming of age tale, and it is but in the twisted way. Charlotte loses herself and every belief she held to fit in from the first day of her Any girl who has ever gone through the journey of the small liberal arts big name college will know parts of Charlotte in ways that take them back to times and insecurities that are far better left forgotten. Charlotte, the brain trust of her small town, enters the world of the privledged \"it's mine because I'm entitled to it\" college student. It should be a coming of age tale, and it is but in the twisted way. Charlotte loses herself and every belief she held to fit in from the first day of her freshman year to the last day of her senior. Her uncooth parents embarass her, and so she pushes them away. She is so insecure that she constantly obsesses about what she wears, what she eats, who she is seen with, how she speaks, and with whom she sleeps. After a few months, it's clear that she has lost her identity entirely. My favorite part about this book is what makes it real - disturbing but true - she doesn't come back around. And I think that's a reality. When we lose ourselves, we don't get that self back, we just create a new one. Maybe that new one mimics many parts of the old self, but the new insecurities prevent it from every returning to the original. If you want a pick me up, this is not the book. However, if you have been in this world and want to appreciate how you made it through and appreciate life on the other side , you won't be disappointed. ...more I picked this up at the big garage sale that my work puts on. It caught my eye and I remember being interested in it after reading a review of it when it came out. It's a pretty thick book, over 750 pages, and I didn't plan on reading it for a while. I read the first few chapters when I got home and got very caught up in it. It is one of those books where once you've start reading it, everything else in your life takes a back seat and you can't do anything else but read the book until you're don I picked this up at the big garage sale that my work puts on. It caught my eye and I remember being interested in it after reading a review of it when it came out. It's a pretty thick book, over 750 pages, and I didn't plan on reading it for a while. I read the first few chapters when I got home and got very caught up in it. It is one of those books where once you've start reading it, everything else in your life takes a back seat and you can't do anything else but read the book until you're done. Apparently all of Tom Wolfe's books are like that, though I've only read this one. I'll let the New York Times say it better than I can: \"Like everything Wolfe writes, 'I Am Charlotte Simmons' grabs your interest at the outset and saps the desire to do anything else until you finish.\" The book is basically a critique of the current state of higher education and the university lifestyle. The three main characters are students at a Dupont, a fictional prestigious liberal arts school on the east coast and their lives intersect through various plot threads. The title character, Charlotte, is the fish out of water from a small working-class town in West Virginia. She comes to Dupont full of innocence and ideals and the book is propelled by the story of her inevitable fall from grace and eventual redemption. There is one long extended chapter the book about Charlotte going to the big fraternity formal with her new boyfriend and his friends. Wolfe describes what is happening in real time with great detail (both material and emotional), and the result is an incredible and extremely moving piece of writing. If movies that present prom night as an magical evening where everyone's problems are somehow resolved are a zero on the realism scale, Wolfe's description of Charlotte's experience is an easy 10 . One of the things that Wolfe does really well is observe the motivations behind people's words and actions, analyzing people in much the same way that a biologist would study the behavior of animals. To Tom Wolfe, every human interaction is a struggle for dominance, and he makes his case convincingly enough particularly when applied to the seemingly simple but incredibly complex social codes of the fraternities and sororities. Wolfe does stumble occasionally, getting a bit out of his element, particularly when attempting to recreate the dialogue and slang of the black players on the college basketball team. He creates a rapper called Doctor Dis and writes lyrics for his songs in a few cringe-inducing passages. Still, you've got to give an old white guy credit for an attempt. A large part of Wolfe's critique is about class, and the sense of entitlement that well-heeled and well-educated feel. Wolfe lays it on a little too thick in describing Charlotte's humble background, however, and details like Charlotte's family having to use a picnic table inside because they couldn't afford a dining table seemed forced. One final criticism that I'll make is that I though that the end was too neat and sudden. I expected more of a payoff, though I was satisfied enough (if only just to see Charlotte okay again after everything that Wolfe puts her through). This book got a lot of mixed reviews, and some critics really panned it, seeing it as a one of Wolfe's lesser books. I'm not familiar with his other works and with nothing else to compare it to, I was blown away and completely engrossed. I'd strongly recommend it, though only if you can afford to disappear for a week. ...more Sigh... It's no fun writing a hatchet job, much less a hatchet job on one of your heroes. I read Charlotte Simmons about a year ago and hated it, but decided that the generousity of the Christmas Spirit might make it the perfect time for me to read it. Jesus it was even worse. I love Tom Wolfe, his early journalism is alive as very few works I know. His critism is sharp and cutting and can make a whole school of thought look ridiculous in a clever turn of phrase. His novels are flawed sure but li Sigh... It's no fun writing a hatchet job, much less a hatchet job on one of your heroes. I read Charlotte Simmons about a year ago and hated it, but decided that the generousity of the Christmas Spirit might make it the perfect time for me to read it. Jesus it was even worse. I love Tom Wolfe, his early journalism is alive as very few works I know. His critism is sharp and cutting and can make a whole school of thought look ridiculous in a clever turn of phrase. His novels are flawed sure but like his journalism the sheer verve and style of his prose carries them across whatever bumps they might have. Until Charlotte Fucking Simmons. The problem is that since Hooking Up Tom Wolfe has found himself fascinated by post modern philosphy. He's no longer concerned with writing about individuals but has instead decided to focus on the misfiring chemicals in their brain in a probablistic equation. He makes Kurt Vonnegut look like Saint Augustine when it comes to subject of free will and it's sucked the life write out of his books. It's heartbreaking. Worse yet is he's lost his ear for society and character. Ms. Simmons who has been raised around meth mouths and shit kickers would not be shocked by an errant Silver Bullet Tall Boy. The book goes from muddled to straight out surreal about midway through where Wolfe suddenly decides to play a two hundred page game of \"Whose's going to bust Charlotte Simmon's Cherry.\" which would be bad enough if Wolfe didn't narrate the proceedings with the smirk of a dirty old uncle. It's sad that Zadie Smith accomplished in a page long vignette in On Beauty what it took Wolfe 700 odd pages to not accomplish. ...more I Am Charlotte Simmons was published in 2004, which was the year in which I matriculated at my alma mater. I guess that makes Charlotte and I the same age (except that Charlotte is, obviously, a shadowy, fictional stereotype of someone my age and, thus, not real). Charlotte Simmons is a sheltered, smart girl from a small town in the mountains of North Carolina, who ends up at a top university and is shocked by what she sees there. I was also a sheltered smart girl from a small town in the mounta I Am Charlotte Simmons was published in 2004, which was the year in which I matriculated at my alma mater. I guess that makes Charlotte and I the same age (except that Charlotte is, obviously, a shadowy, fictional stereotype of someone my age and, thus, not real). Charlotte Simmons is a sheltered, smart girl from a small town in the mountains of North Carolina, who ends up at a top university and is shocked by what she sees there. I was also a sheltered smart girl from a small town in the mountains (of Southern California. In case you were unaware, California is also overrun with idiotic Republican whack job Jesus freaks, at least once you get away from the coast and into the shit-hole provincial towns. They're probably spouting nonsense about the glories of gun-ownership via semi-literate Facebook posts as we speak). All this is to say that Charlotte and I are both girls from small towns who got into prestigious universities, only to find that they didn't fit the Elysian vision of intellectual nirvana we had created for ourselves when we imagined what college would be like. The main difference between us is that, while I was disappointed, I didn't find this particularly surprising. But wait, you may say, it's unfair for you, as a reader, to hate on a book because it doesn't mirror your own experiences! And this is true, to a point, except that Wolfe wrote a book rife with inaccuracies about what life was like for college students in 2004. This paragraph serves as a running inventory of specific things Tom Wolfe got wrong: Charlotte's roommate brings a fax machine with her, and sets it up in her dorm room (??). Wolfe describes cell phones as if they're super fancy gadgets possessed only by the elite. A fraternity brother asks to borrow porn videos from the other brothers, instead of searching for porn on the internet like a normal human being. Wolfe forgets that we're a bit too young for Animal House and Swingers to be the defining films our youth (although he is correct in assuming that we all watched Old School). I'm pretty sure we're not the first generation to forgo last names when introducing ourselves. Rap and reggae were not the only genres people listened to (I mean, isn't Belle and Sebastain one of the prototypical college bands? Also, reggae has always been pretty niche). Britney Spears peaked when Oops\u2026I did it Again came out in 2000. The Stairmaster may have been big in 80's, but young women have been partial to the elliptical since at least the early 2000's. No cool girl would willingly call herself a \"douche\" (or a trekkie, for that matter). To be fair, Wolfe got a few things right. Often, my classmates would proffer answers in class that were so idiotic, I couldn't help but wonder how they had gotten into the university in the first place. Athletes really are treated like gods, even at schools with fairly middling athletic programs. Also, we played a ton of drinking games . Nevertheless, the millennial cultural narrative doesn't align with Wolfe's story of an edenic fall into a tawdry, quasi-intellectual underbelly populated by hormone-crazed sex drones. In reality, we went to college, like our parents before us, we studied, we graduated, we attempted to obtain gainful employment. Things would be a lot easier if previous generations hadn't managed to screw up both the economy and the environment, but that's a different story. With Charlotte Simmons, it seems to me that Tom is not so much a prescient social commentator as he is a self-indulgent writer who cried wolf. The main problem with I Am Charlotte Simmons is that that Wolfe fails to satirize the (very real) issues of entitlement and lack of racial and economic diversity on prestigious college campuses. Instead, he adds his voice to the cyclical, and ultimately untenable, diatribe against \"kids these days,\" forgetting that we've been there before , and the overhyped prognostications about the end of polite society have consistently proved to be, shockingly, anticlimactic . Two stars: one, because the writing is remarkable (this is Tom Wolfe, after all. Dude knows how to write). Two, because there's a great description of the horror that is the fast-casual dining experience. ...more This was a great read. Tom Wolfe does an excellent job reporting on college life; you'd almost swear it was written by a contemporary. This book tells the story of a sheltered, back-country girl as she adjusts to college life and confronts the world of wealth and entitlement in her prep-school bred fellow students, the frat scene, the jock scene, academic achievements and struggles, and pains of growing up. Wolfe's writing style is very powerful. I really felt for Charlotte during all her trying This was a great read. Tom Wolfe does an excellent job reporting on college life; you'd almost swear it was written by a contemporary. This book tells the story of a sheltered, back-country girl as she adjusts to college life and confronts the world of wealth and entitlement in her prep-school bred fellow students, the frat scene, the jock scene, academic achievements and struggles, and pains of growing up. Wolfe's writing style is very powerful. I really felt for Charlotte during all her trying and triumphant moments. There's a host of other characters that Charlotte meets who are equally well drawn. If you're drawn to books for good descriptions and sympathetic characters, you'll really enjoy this. But at times, I found Wolfe's writing to be too self-congratulating. The first time he described the variety of ways people curse today, I thought his moniker of \"f*ck patois\" was clever. But by the 17th time he used that phrase I was tired of it. And I wasn't sure it needed the 4 page explanation of what that means. So, anyone our age might feel like some obvious things are explained too much (as in \"today they use hot for what we used to say was cool\") that just makes me picture an out-of-touch 70 year old thinking he's got \"us kids\" figured out in a way that is clear he doesnt. And speaking of the fact that he was 70 something when he wrote this, some of his descriptions of certain sexual situations is just plain creepy. Apparantly he spent years \"researching\" at universities across the country, including Duke, where his daughter went to school and which the fictional Dupont University is supposedly based on. But all in all a good read. If anyone else has read/reads this, let me know - I wanna discuss the ending with someone. ...more I got so much enjoyment out of this book. If you attempt to read it as an actual piece of literature (or, God forbid, actually purchase it) you will be incredibly insulted and possibly enraged. I wouldn't even deign to call these characters stereotypes because I think that would be giving them more credit than they rightly deserve. And if you read it as the desperate attempt of an aging writer to remain relevant, it might just make you sad (unless you are already enraged/insulted in which case f I got so much enjoyment out of this book. If you attempt to read it as an actual piece of literature (or, God forbid, actually purchase it) you will be incredibly insulted and possibly enraged. I wouldn't even deign to call these characters stereotypes because I think that would be giving them more credit than they rightly deserve. And if you read it as the desperate attempt of an aging writer to remain relevant, it might just make you sad (unless you are already enraged/insulted in which case feelings of hatred may render you unable to feel pity). This is the literary equivalent of Crossroads with Britney Spears. Instead, read it to revel in the hilariously awful (oh sorry, Mr. Wolfe, I meant \"well-researched\") writing. Especially enjoy the abundant use of the phrase \"mons pubis.\" Seriously. ...more I'd gone through some of the reviews here before I picked it up and I thought they were exaggerated. Nope. This really IS an old fella's attempt to explain you your college experience (assuming you went to college in the last decade). I have 2 major problems with this book. First of them is the author. What is your deal, Tom Wolfe? I've never read any other book written by him (don't think I will) so I can't say if it's his usual style but is he a control freak? Is he bizzarely proud of his re I'd gone through some of the reviews here before I picked it up and I thought they were exaggerated. Nope. This really IS an old fella's attempt to explain you your college experience (assuming you went to college in the last decade). I have 2 major problems with this book. First of them is the author. What is your deal, Tom Wolfe? I've never read any other book written by him (don't think I will) so I can't say if it's his usual style but is he a control freak? Is he bizzarely proud of his research? Or, which might be the most probable answer, does he think his readers are f*cking morons? Or maybe he thought only other 70+ year olds will be the ones reading this novel? Why else would he explain everything ? People, we get a definition of humping . We learn that Nietzsche was \"a German philosopher\". He tells us 3.99 USD is not a price of a year's subscription of Cosmo , it's what you pay for one issue (which is supposed to be a shocker, apparently)! Is he for real?! Also, the main character. Charlotte Simmons, the sweet virgin. Are we supposed to like her? To root for her? To symphatize with her? Because she's the most annoying, self-righteous uptight b*tch. Plus, I'm not from NC but I'll take a wild guess and assume North Carolina circa 2004 generally had TV and internet, right? So am I really supposed to believe a smart girl who went to a normal public high school would be so utterly shocked by a bit of cursing? By a boy in a corridor wearing (the horror!) a t-shirt and boxer shorts? By people (gasp!) having sex (not in front of her, just in the same building)? Had she never watched the O.C., or anything on MTV? Believe me, I get that wild partying and casual sex are not for everyone, I do. I just don't think her reactions to so.many.things. are the reactions of a young girl (even a small town one, who's introvertic, unexperienced etc.). Really, such people simply don't exist. Also, Wolfe seems to master the subject yet fails to build a realistic world based on his research. Yes, he knows the lingo (yet he uses it same way a nerdy kid who tries to be cool would). But at the same time he seems not to understand how rapidly some fashions and quirks change - around 2004 no girl would take \"You look like Britney Spears\" as a compliment anymore, yet this very line is used repeatedly and very succesfully by one of the male characters. Tiny detail? Yes, but social realities of such books are based on them (and there are many other examples). My advice: if you want a story about college kids doing auto-destructive things, read Easton Ellis. He did it much better. 20 years earlier. And while he was still actually young. Edit: I've actually finished it (I hate to quit books, even if they suck) - my opinion hasn't changed. One more general thought though - some people defend this book saying the author asks us to question the norms. I think they're giving this novel wayyyy too much credit. As one reviewer on this very website said, Wolfe must have got the norms wrong. ...more I read this book years ago and saw it on my friend's bookshelf today. I had to add it to my bookshelf because I LOVED it. It's about a girl who grew up fairly poor in a small town and she goes off to college. It put right back in college. It was amazing! One of my favorite books ever. All of you have to read it!!! I like this book, though it's really looooong. Some paragraphs go on for a page or two. But once you get into it, the sentences flow and take you to unexpected nuggets of satiric humor and ironic wit. Of course, the dialogue and characterizations are hilarious too. I would not say that one \"loves\" or \"likes\" either Charlotte Simmons or the rest of the characters---which are not prerequisites for the overall quality of a novel---but they ring true. As their psycholoy is revealed, their personaliti I like this book, though it's really looooong. Some paragraphs go on for a page or two. But once you get into it, the sentences flow and take you to unexpected nuggets of satiric humor and ironic wit. Of course, the dialogue and characterizations are hilarious too. I would not say that one \"loves\" or \"likes\" either Charlotte Simmons or the rest of the characters---which are not prerequisites for the overall quality of a novel---but they ring true. As their psycholoy is revealed, their personalities and choices become patently plausible, invevitable really. I'm not sure I \"liked\" the ending, but again, liking it is neither here nor there in terms of quality. I liked it because it seemed a bit idealized and in someways fulfilling, which is also the reason I didn't like it because thus far, the novel had seemed to follow an inevitable and necessary trajectory so that this \"happy ending\" of sorts, seems a bit out of place. However, within this ideal situation that the protagonist finds herself in toward the end, reasons for her ultimate choice are hinted at that she herself is barely aware of, and because of this, who she is, what she learns and all that jazz, says a lot about her that clearly demote her from heroine to basically a person one may not like. She has not learned all that much in fact. She is the social animal that is motivated and affected by societal values; she is not above status as defined by not only peers but also by the larger American culture. I wanted Charlotte to \"do the right thing,\" I really did. But given her experiences, the ending makes sense and the ambiguity about who she is and what she's becoming, are really apt, I think. I liked this book for the wry comic turns, the wording and syntax are \"ambrosial\" (a term used by a character) and the intellect is constantly stimulated. As far as the characters and their ultimate development, it's depressing. And not only because they in effect are \"evil\" or anything like that, but because they mirror back a litttle (or a lot) of ourselves, especially for those who have travailed the path to Higher Ed. The depression hits because the choices made are done by people like you or I, and their all too human desires, ambitions, and psychology make it hard to judge. You want to identify with a character who is basically good and incapable of corruption because then you can tell yourself you identify with that character. But there are none---Charlotte hardly qualifies as a classic heroine and much less the supporting characters. This is definitely a Naturalistic novel with all of its social animals trapped by forces out of their control. They are all too human and what the novel has to say about our present culture resonates long after you put it down. While reading it, though, the humor and irony and syntactical brilliance are at the fore. ...more Wow. I believe you can write about being young no matter how old you are. However, I don't know if you can write about being young and going to college in 2004, when you haven't been young (or attended college) since the Eisenhower administration. This absurd novel, which fails as a novel in any convention sense except perhaps self-satire, follows the travails of a beautiful, smart, yet pure-as-the driven-snow hillbilly angel, who emerged out of what sounds like a hobbit hole in Western North Ca Wow. I believe you can write about being young no matter how old you are. However, I don't know if you can write about being young and going to college in 2004, when you haven't been young (or attended college) since the Eisenhower administration. This absurd novel, which fails as a novel in any convention sense except perhaps self-satire, follows the travails of a beautiful, smart, yet pure-as-the driven-snow hillbilly angel, who emerged out of what sounds like a hobbit hole in Western North Carolina and landed at Duke, I mean, Dupont University, where all the women are rich sorority girls, radicalized lesbian separatists or grotesque underlings who grovel and drool in the dorm hallways at night like some great unwashed mass of medieval lepers. And where all the men are spoiled fratboy rapists, self-deluding, sleazy leftists or wholesome (white!) basketball players who love their mamas. I would like to challenge anyone who has been to college in the past twenty years to find something in \"Charlotte Simmons\" that is remotely believable. I live about fifteen minutes from Wolfe's model for Dupont University and grew up in Western North Carolina and I can tell you this book might as well be set on Mars, as far as I'm concerned. Reading it requires a suspension of disbelief quite a bit greater than that needed to enjoy \"Harry Potter,\" and I literally threw this book across the room no less than a dozen times whilst reading it. Basically, what I learned is that Tom Wolfe is either actually a sexist, racist, elitist, ignorant, patronizing scumbag or he's so woefully out of touch that he doesn't realize this book makes him seem like all of those things. ...more Well ... I had never read any Tom Wolfe before. I had read and heard several things about this book - namely, how Wolfe researched by exploring college culture, attending parties and interviewing students and such. The resulting fiction is a paltry attempt at immersion journalism at best. I know, I know, Wolfe wasn't trying to tell a true story (and naturally, no one compares to my journalistic hero Leon Dash) but instead write a fictional piece exploring the seamier side of collegiate life at a Well ... I had never read any Tom Wolfe before. I had read and heard several things about this book - namely, how Wolfe researched by exploring college culture, attending parties and interviewing students and such. The resulting fiction is a paltry attempt at immersion journalism at best. I know, I know, Wolfe wasn't trying to tell a true story (and naturally, no one compares to my journalistic hero Leon Dash) but instead write a fictional piece exploring the seamier side of collegiate life at an upper-crust University. At least, I think that's what he was trying to do. I'm not saying I didn't enjoy the book. In fact, it was very readable and pretty entertaining. I think it just fell far short of what Mr. Wolfe feels (or hopes) he accomplished. You can just tell by reading the book that it was written by someone who ALMOST but doesn't quite, get it. It has that outsider's perspective, but not in the loner, misunderstood sense. I'm not sure exactly how to put this but I hope this makes it clear what I am trying to say. It feels like the book was written by someone who has no idea what they are talking about, yet feels they have completely mastered the topic. Wolfe overuses tools like slang, pop culture references, etc. to try and make it seem like he really knows what he's talking about. It's like that nerdy kid who desperately tries to seem cool by doing things like liking really obscure music, or quoting the Simpson's ad nauseum, or constantly talking about their drinking habits and crazy drunken adventures. You knew that kid in college. We all did. Anyhow, the protagonist, the titular Charlotte Simmons, is an outsider, so Wolfe's strategy does work to an extent. But she is a strangely implausible character at times, as are some of the others. And not implausible in the way that all people are, more like implausible as in some of the characters do things that are directly contradictory to their intial presentation (I am thinking of Laurie, Charlotte's best friend, in particular). Charlotte leads a life of near-constant mortification. Her embarassment, at least as written, is so intense at all times that it must be simply exhausting. It left me wondering how, in this perpetually self-conscious state, she managed to both be a genius, and have an extremely high level of confidence in both her intellect and physical appearance. This self-confidence seemed at complete odds with her extreme, even desperate desire to fit in. It was strange also, that she felt superior to everyone yet wanted to be their leader. I suppose this is not unusual, in fact it's almost cliched. But it's still strange, to me at least. The characters are poorly developed. There are actually too many characters in my opinion. They all revolve around each other and interact, but some in only the most fleeting of ways. And (THIS MIGHT RUIN IT IF YOU HAVEN'T READ IT) some who are introduced as being very influential in Charlotte's life are referenced only briefly again, and conflicts are never resolved. In short, the characters, even Charlotte, are shallow. We are given the gist of what it is that Charlotte desires, and even a glimpse into her inner turmoil, but it is still unclear to me WHY she wants the things she wants, and why she seems to have two personalities - one which wants to be intellectual, one which wants to be \"cool\". She grows angry whenever she is recognized as one or the other, though - when around cool people she wants them to know how smart she is and vice-versa. She doesn't seem to find a way to let these two aspects of herself co-exist. Which I suppose is very typical of a college freshman. However, the resolution of the book was unsatisfying. Basically what I came away with - Smart people do stupid things, too. Duh. Overall, it was intriguing and kept me entertained on the plane ...more This book is...horrible. Something about this novel bothered me the entire time I was reading it. Actually, a lot of somethings bothered me. For one, Wolfe's extreme stereotypical carictures of the characters in this novel are all abrasive and very unrealistic. Secondly, the book is entirely too long--he could have easily cut out at least 200 pages. The excessive length of the book has much to do with the fact that each character makes numerous unncessary very repetitive tirades of their thought This book is...horrible. Something about this novel bothered me the entire time I was reading it. Actually, a lot of somethings bothered me. For one, Wolfe's extreme stereotypical carictures of the characters in this novel are all abrasive and very unrealistic. Secondly, the book is entirely too long--he could have easily cut out at least 200 pages. The excessive length of the book has much to do with the fact that each character makes numerous unncessary very repetitive tirades of their thoughts. After a while I began to try to skim--or even partly skip over some of these such literary occurences, in the novel, because they did nothing but slow the story down. Most importantly, I did not feel any sort of attachement to any character in this novel, furthermore they did more of a job annoying me and repulsing me than anything else. Much of Wolfe's writing in this novel sounds more like someone from the oustide of college life looking in and satirically commenting about all the terrible horrible, immoral things that happen. Wolfe's potrayal of college life is far--very far---off base. He has no idea what he is talking about. I became especially annoyed at Wolfe's attempt to make a mockery of rap music throughout the novel. Wolfe has obviously barely ever listened to rap music and cannot even begin to fathom the diversity, cultural relevance and depth of thought that much of hip-hop music is about. The characters in this book are all very simplistic--in the fact that they have no depth whatsoever. I am an avid reader, and one of the great things about fiction novels is the ability of the author to be able to actually make you feel what the characters feel--to experience their emotions. This book did not do that. In fact, I was mostly annoyed by each and every character, and I did not feel for them at all. They were not layered, they did not seem all that human at all. Rather than being believable, I saw them more as puppets that Wolfe manipulated in a way that he saw fit to portray. Racism, sexism, classism and the like run rapid in between and all around every line of this book--and not in a good way. There is more to college than athletes, fraternities, academics and drug, sex and alcohol. It is true that these things do exist, but certainly not in the way that Wolfe portrays them. There is more to athletes than just sports. There is more to fraternities and the guys who are in them than just sex, parties, drugs and alcohol. There is more to academics than just the extreme outcast geniuses. AND there is more to those geniuses than academics. In simpler terms, Wolfe fails to portray the complexities of college life. The ability for students to exist in between the stereotypes and oustide of them as well. What is probably the worst part of the novel is the main character, Charlotte Simmons. She is entirely too pure and innocent to be believable. She puts herself on a pedestal and instead of feeling compelled by it and her ability to look at herself in such a positive matter is more so annoying and off putting because she places herself above EVERYONE else in the novel and above every bad thing she happens to encounter. No one is too good for EVERYONE. She thinks herself to good to experience the realities of life. Wolfe breaks no barriers here, or makes no achievments--he may in fact have set us back thirty or forty years in writing this novel and releasing it to the public. I surely hope that there are not too many people who take his potrayal of college life--and the students a part of it--as true to life. ...more I Am Charlotte Simmons is the latest work by Tom Wolfe (Bonfire of the Vanities). Having seen/heard a few favorable reviews (though I don\u2019t remember where), and needing something to listen too during my commute to work, I decided to give this a shot. After all, it was 50 percent off, and over thirty-one hours long! Entertainment for weeks! Or not. I Am Charlotte Simmons is the story of a collection of stereotypes. Whoops, excuse me. I mean, it\u2019s the story of Charlotte Simmons, an impossibly na\u00efv I Am Charlotte Simmons is the latest work by Tom Wolfe (Bonfire of the Vanities). Having seen/heard a few favorable reviews (though I don\u2019t remember where), and needing something to listen too during my commute to work, I decided to give this a shot. After all, it was 50 percent off, and over thirty-one hours long! Entertainment for weeks! Or not. I Am Charlotte Simmons is the story of a collection of stereotypes. Whoops, excuse me. I mean, it\u2019s the story of Charlotte Simmons, an impossibly na\u00efve genius from Sparta, North Carolina who, by virtue of her amazing intellect, receives a full scholarship to Dupont University (supposedly an analog for Duke or UVa). The other main characters include JoJo Johansen, Dupont\u2019s sole white starting basketball player, Beverly, a Groton produced snob, Adam\u2026Geller, a smart kid, and Hoyt Thorpe, a frat boy. Five complete and total stereotypes without a hint of original thought or action. It gets worse. First of all, the title character is so ignorant of the world that it\u2019s actually offensive. I may have siphoned off some of Starla\u2019s sensitivity on this subject, but North Carolina is hardly stuck in the Dark Ages. Yes, there are backwoods places that aren\u2019t up on the latest culture and fashion, but Charlotte Simmons is so ignorant it is quite literally unbelievable. She\u2019s completely shocked (shocked, I tell you!) that there is drinking going on in her dorm. Drinking! It\u2019s unbelievable. How could students be drinking? This is a dry dorm! The RA said there would be no drinking! And yes, the book does go on, and on, and on, in this fashion. Wolfe seems to feel the need to repeat each and every point over and over again. And one more time, in case you missed it. To make things worse, Wolfe occasionally displays his own total ignorance of the culture he\u2019s writing about. During one of Hoyt Thorpe\u2019s many drunken contemplations (frat boys in the Wolfe-verse never sober up), he starts thinking of various frat type movies like Animal House, Old School, and The Usual Suspects. The Usual Suspects? It\u2019s a murder mystery, Tom. If you\u2019re going to clumsily assail modern academia (and believe me Tom, there\u2019s plenty to assail), could you at least get your facts right? Or make some sense. The audio version is read by Dylan Baker (Spider Man 2), who does a decent voice acting job, though all of his college-age men sound precisely the same. He has a tendency to sound whiney a lot, but I think that\u2019s an effect of how whiny this book is, not his acting skills. As much as part of me wants to, I just couldn\u2019t finish this thing. The book lacks a believable character, plot, or event to draw the reader in. Worse, Wolfe seems intent on showing off his voluminous vocabulary and dragging out each and every moment for as long as possible. I finished about six CD\u2019s, and then gave up. Sorry Mr. Wolfe \u2013 you broke me. ...more Rated R for language and sexuality. And yet, this book is still difficult to evaluate, because authorial tone is a major factor in evaluation. While I don't know Wolfe's work well, it's clear that nothing raunchy in this book is meant to be gloried in. In fact, Wolfe (at least here) seems to be intent on providing something of an expos\u00e9\u2014hey, liberals, this is what your \"progressive\" agenda gets you, a cesspool of disgusting, human-degrading behavior that is laughed off or slept away, only to be Rated R for language and sexuality. And yet, this book is still difficult to evaluate, because authorial tone is a major factor in evaluation. While I don't know Wolfe's work well, it's clear that nothing raunchy in this book is meant to be gloried in. In fact, Wolfe (at least here) seems to be intent on providing something of an expos\u00e9\u2014hey, liberals, this is what your \"progressive\" agenda gets you, a cesspool of disgusting, human-degrading behavior that is laughed off or slept away, only to be returned to the next day, like dogs to vomit. Although there is a sense of justice at the end (unfortunately, Charlotte has no room for forgiveness in her heart), it's clear that Wolfe intends for readers to be saddened (and shocked) by what really goes on in American universities. And Wolfe would know, having done extensive first-hand research on campuses across the nation. In his book How (Not) to Be Secular , Jamie Smith writes (102n15) that Tom Wolfe's novels show what modern \"liberation\" gets you, and it's not liberty. The one-star reviews on GoodReads are pretty rabid. They strike me as the futile wails of people who know that they've been nailed to the wall. On its way to that wall, the nail hit a nerve, and people never like their imbecility being pointed out. A common charge is that Wolfe is naively complaining about \"kids these days,\" but it's unclear what the problem is. Is Wolfe's depiction of \"kids these days\" inaccurate? Is his depiction of \"kids these days\" accurate, but inconsequential? Some of these reviews sound like a few of the rejects from the book crawled out and wrote their own reviews, demonstrating that those who think that there's nothing wrong with American higher education are themselves their own punishment. Several quotes/comments here , here , here , and here . See here (6:33 to 10:04) for N.D. Wilson's comments about books vs. films. Very good review at The American Conservative. Wolfe is an atheist, but in The Kingdom of Speech , he mocks Darwinian evolution. ...more Small town naive girl goes to college and sleeps with a frat douche...I'm pretty sure there are about 37 Lifetime movies with the same plot. I'm also not sure if I'm supposed to feel sorry for her or laugh at her? That entire premise is so obvious and cliche. She smugly thinks she's so special and better than all the other people at that school but she's so insecure and pretty judgy for someone who has no friends. When Charlotte sticks to her convictions she's grating and annoying and when she t Small town naive girl goes to college and sleeps with a frat douche...I'm pretty sure there are about 37 Lifetime movies with the same plot. I'm also not sure if I'm supposed to feel sorry for her or laugh at her? That entire premise is so obvious and cliche. She smugly thinks she's so special and better than all the other people at that school but she's so insecure and pretty judgy for someone who has no friends. When Charlotte sticks to her convictions she's grating and annoying and when she throws caution to the wind she's dumb about it. She also essentially treats the one person who is nice to her no better than the fratty treats her (and he tells everybody every single detail of their night, which is super jacked up and just like a fratty would do) but then she gets validated by not exactly growing as a person but maybe just taking on a different persona, since she was so desperate to shed the small town girl image and then the dumb girl who sleeps with the frat guy image. All the college athletic talk is actually super on point. I worked in college athletics and those students get treated as gods and this was at a pretty middle of the road Mountain West school. I can't even imagine what its like at school where they actually win championships. I mean I can, but still. Tom Wolfe does an okay job of capturing student life in a broad way. The language is a little forced and he relies on terms I expect are regional (all that sarc 1, sarc 2 nonsense, I don't know anyone who actually talks like that, but whatever) but you can tell he did a lot of research to capture some essence of a coed campus situation. <+++>I am Charlotte Simmons</+++> is easily 300-400 pages too long especially when you know where it's going. My new rule is nothing over 400 pages, if you can't land that plane in 400 pages than forget it. I wish good reads allowed half stars because this is a 2.5er but benefit of the doubt I guess. ...more Not bad but Tom Wolf is a bit too descriptive wheather he's talking about a college basketball games, frat praties, being locked out of your dorm becasue your roomate is fucking, we get it Tom Wolf college is about NCAA bids and parties, and not about the humanities, college is for privileged upper middle class young adults and high school athletes, a place they can put off growing up for four years. This is more or less true about college, unless you attend a liberal arts college which is a hug Not bad but Tom Wolf is a bit too descriptive wheather he's talking about a college basketball games, frat praties, being locked out of your dorm becasue your roomate is fucking, we get it Tom Wolf college is about NCAA bids and parties, and not about the humanities, college is for privileged upper middle class young adults and high school athletes, a place they can put off growing up for four years. This is more or less true about college, unless you attend a liberal arts college which is a huge waste of money and even time, because the library is free and you can study anything there, and become an expert on it, why waste your money it's not as if your going to find a job with a liberal arts degree that affords you to pay your student loan debt back and not live at your parents or live like your homeless. Listen just drop out, college is the biggest scam ever conceived, I wish I never would of attended college. ...more 'In I Am Charlotte Simmons, Wolfe gives us a tabula rasa from the Blue Ridge mountains who attends prestigious Dupont University only to find herself caught in the prevailing cultural, moral, and human maelstrom of American college life at the turn of the century. We all walked past buildings at Duke, but Wolfe seems to have seen through them.' Read the full review, \"Bonfire of the Varsities,\" on our website: http://www.theamericanconservative.co... From my Commentary review - Tom Wolfe, the Mrs Humphry Ward of our Time. In his long career, Tom Wolfe has written more pages in order to \u00e9pater les bien-pensants than any writer now alive. He must be surprised, then, that his latest novel-of-the-decade, I Am Charlotte Simmons\u2014genial, trustful, sympathetic\u2014has already created as much ill will as his earlier waspish commentaries on fashionable politics, art, and social pretension. But so it has. Though I Am Charlotte Simmons is not without its de From my Commentary review - Tom Wolfe, the Mrs Humphry Ward of our Time. In his long career, Tom Wolfe has written more pages in order to \u00e9pater les bien-pensants than any writer now alive. He must be surprised, then, that his latest novel-of-the-decade, I Am Charlotte Simmons\u2014genial, trustful, sympathetic\u2014has already created as much ill will as his earlier waspish commentaries on fashionable politics, art, and social pretension. But so it has. Though I Am Charlotte Simmons is not without its defenders, its detractors have been numerous and petulant. More than any writer of our time, Wolfe has also created the taste by which he is to be enjoyed, for which he is again being punished. Thus, the chief gripe of those who dislike I Am Charlotte Simmons is that it is not sufficiently \u201cWolfean.\u201d Michiko Kakutani\u2019s reaction in the New York Times was typical. She had expected, she wrote, a grand Tom Wolfe panorama of \u201cbig-city racial politics, big-business financial shenanigans, or big-time criminal justice.\u201d Instead, she continued in high sarcasm, Wolfe has taken on \u201cthe momentous subject of college life (college life? Yes, college life!), and . . . serves up the revelation\u2014yikes!\u2014that students crave sex and beer, love to party, wear casual clothes, and use four-letter words.\u201d For others, the very familiarity of Wolfe\u2019s subject matter breeds contempt. \u201cI have never been a Wall Street banker or an Atlanta real-estate developer,\u201d wrote Adam Kirsch in the New York Sun, \u201cso I must take the accuracy of Mr. Wolfe\u2019s earlier novels on trust. But I have been a college student, . . . and I can say with assurance that nothing about Dupont [University] rings true.\u201d But this is to miss the point. The Dupont of I Am Charlotte Simmons is meant to be exceptional, not necessarily true. It is as heightened a version of college reality as were Wolfe\u2019s earlier portraits of the extravagances of big business, big-city racial politics, and the rest. The question is whether and to what extent this newest portrait succeeds in enabling a Wolfean panorama in full. The novel\u2019s eponymous hero is a wholly admirable girl from a poor family in a small mountain town in North Carolina called Sparta. Charlotte is ingenuous, but no mere ing\u00e9nue\u2014nature gave her a perfect SAT score of 1600, and she has been nurtured by the demanding, supportive love of a strong mother, a silent father, and an inspiring teacher. Charlotte leaves Sparta without a single decent pair of jeans but armed with this intellectual and moral inheritance and with a sense that she will return either with her shield of Athena or on it. The Dupont University at which she arrives has been clearly modeled on Duke\u2014though removed to the countryside of Pennsylvania, which gives the book an oddly O\u2019Hara-esque note. (The novel is chock-full of allusions to stories about the entry of the young into the adult world\u2014Balzac\u2019s Rubempre novels, Flaubert\u2019s Madame Bovary, Michael Arlen\u2019s 1924 The Green Hat, and others.) Dupont is like Duke both in its academic selectivity and in the character of its students\u2014intelligent and ambitious but not intellectual, and by tradition highly \u201csocial.\u201d Most of all, Dupont is like Duke in its grafting of a Division I basketball program onto a superior academic curriculum. Through Charlotte\u2019s innocent and mascara-less eyes, we encounter three separate student worlds at Dupont, each of which conceives of itself in aristocratic terms. There is the world of Nationally Ranked College Basketball as personified by Jojo Johanssen, Dupont\u2019s only white starting player. There is the world of high society and romance, in the persons of the members of the Saint Ray fraternity and their sorority girlfriends. Finally there are the Millennial Mutants, who represent dorkdom, left-wing political sophistication, and intellectual drive. The novel\u2019s plot unfolds through Charlotte\u2019s search for a boyfriend within these three worlds and through the complex relationships among the three candidates for that honor: Jojo the basketball player, Hoyt Thorpe the gorgeous fraternity boy, and Adam Gellin the Jewish intellectual. Adam, as a tutor to the basketball team, breaks the academic rules by writing a paper from scratch for Jojo. As a student journalist, Adam also affects Hoyt\u2019s fate when he uncovers a political scandal: the previous spring, Hoyt had stumbled upon the governor of California being fellated by a Dupont coed\u2014and had beaten up the governor\u2019s bodyguard. A weakling and a virgin, Adam nevertheless has the power to shape the destiny of the two physically stronger boys. Jojo\u2019s future career in the NBA depends on Adam\u2019s ability to evade a charge of plagiarism leveled by a \u201ctenured radical\u201d professor who has it in for Dupont\u2019s pampered basketball players. Hoyt\u2019s future career as an investment banker depends on keeping quiet the story of the governor and the coed\u2014which Adam, wanting desperately to make his mark as a \u201cpublic intellectual,\u201d has no interest in doing. All three boys vie for Charlotte\u2019s mind, her body, and her soul. It is Charlotte who inspires Jojo to take his college courses seriously (which nearly leads him to disaster). Charlotte also becomes the inadvertent beneficiary of the chivalry of Hoyt Thorpe in a parking-lot brawl; later he invites her, wardrobe-deprived though she is, to an overnight \u201cformal\u201d in Washington where she is introduced to vodka and sexual intercourse. Adam, in love with Charlotte, explains to her that there are ideas so powerful that they create reality. \u201cThe important thing,\u201d he instructs her, \u201cis to be an aristo-meritocrat and live at that higher level.\u201d Wolfe\u2019s campus, in short, is a place where minds\u2014the minds of the Millennial Mutants, or the mind of Socrates, whose ideas are so painfully acquired by Jojo\u2014meet bodies, not only the incredibly ripped bodies of the major-sport athletes but the well-tuned bodies of the white boys who merely play lacrosse and indeed of most of the students we encounter at Dupont, male and female alike. Minds and bodies\u2014another way of saying that what separates this novel most decisively from its predecessors is not its subject matter but its reach. Wolfe\u2019s earlier novels were about human passions and frailties, illuminated against a sharply observed social background. I Am Charlotte Simmons is different. It is a novel of ideas, a philosophical novel. And that is why it has been set in the world of the university. The splendors and miseries of undergraduate life fascinate Wolfe not because, as the critic Elaine Showalter surmised, he is an aging and envious voyeur, \u201ctitillated by the sexual revolution that has arrived on campus since his own student days,\u201d but because he regards the college campus as a vale of soul-making. In Wolfe\u2019s imagination, the campus has clearly supplanted the big city as the place where the American character is created and represented. It is the place where people can still try on new personas, experiment without risk (or so they think), and remake themselves on a scale no longer attainable in the great cities. And it is the place where America is most American\u2014where different social classes, sexualities, and ideals jostle, mix, enter into dramatic conflict, and sometimes achieve resolution. The novel\u2019s earnestness and high seriousness about these matters are what make it more interesting, if sometimes less amusing, than The Bonfire of the Vanities (1987), and infinitely gayer and more vivid than A Man in Full (1998). In keeping with the mind-body theme, the presiding spirit in Charlotte is the new science of neurobiology, with which Wolfe is fascinated but whose most extreme claims he instinctively resists. In a course on introductory neurobiology that Charlotte attends\u2014the subject is the material or genetic control of human life, the \u201cwhimsicality\u201d of such notions as free will, the self, individuality\u2014Dupont\u2019s Nobel laureate quotes a \u201cvery interesting young neuroscientist\u201d as follows: Let\u2019s say you pick up a rock and you throw it. And in mid-flight you give that rock consciousness and a rational mind. The little rock will think it has free will and will give you a highly rational account of why it has decided to take the route it\u2019s taking. Just so, the professor instructs his charges, you, the members of this class and this generation, will one day \u201cbe able to decide for yourself: \u2018Am I really . . . merely . . . a conscious little rock?\u2019 \u201d It is in opposition to this chilling little parable that the phrase \u201cI am Charlotte Simmons\u201d presents itself to Charlotte. By excelling in class, she believes she has in fact discovered \u201cthe life of the mind\u201d and her own best self. As with her virtue, she will, in the course of this book, lose her grip on the life of the mind and repeatedly find it again. The boys\u2014not only the fraternity brothers and the basketball players (with the exception of Jojo) but also Adam with his disfigured notion of the uses of mind\u2014are not so fortunate. _____________ Wolfe is concerned with these young people as individuals, but also as the foci of social, biological, and psychological forces. His young men and women arrive at Dupont \u201cdetermined\u201d not only by their parents\u2019 social rank and success but also by their moral inheritance. Jojo is nearly seven feet tall, but his prowess as a white basketball player was fostered by his father, who insisted on dropping off his twelve-year-old son at the basketball courts of inner-city Trenton. Both Adam and his opposite, Hoyt, are shaped by the weakness and phoniness of their respective fathers (and the indulgence of Adam\u2019s mother). Behind Charlotte is \u201cMomma\u201d\u2014her seriousness, her recognition that her daughter is destined for a greater world than Sparta, her uncompromising belief in Charlotte\u2019s intelligence, together with her demand for obedience and self-discipline. (Curiously absent is any lasting impact from Momma\u2019s \u201cfervent\u201d Christianity, which does not appear to impinge on or figure in Charlotte\u2019s life\u2014perhaps because it does not interest Wolfe.) But for all its stress on determining factors, I Am Charlotte Simmons is full of idealism\u2014the philosophic kind. In his or her own way, each of the characters discovers that, for better or worse, ideas really do move the world. Their epiphanies include Jojo\u2019s intellectual awakening to the Greek philosophers, Adam\u2019s acknowledgment of his desire to be the kind of intellectual who can \u201cdo a country\u2019s thinking for it,\u201d Hoyt\u2019s recognition that his father has not, after all, taught him the infallible secret of how to manipulate others, and, most of all, Charlotte\u2019s effort to maintain her sense of control over her own life and fate. Struggling to be Charlotte Simmons rather than a pathetically self-deluding rock, she is Tom Wolfe\u2019s equivalent of the earnest young clergymen in the novels of George Eliot or Mrs. Humphry Ward, striving to maintain their religious faith in the face of Lyell\u2019s Geology and the Higher Criticism. Admittedly, Charlotte\u2019s belief in mind and will over matter is sometimes revealed to be an illusion\u2014as when she is being seduced by the heartless aristocrat of Saint Ray: She wanted to please him, to . . . have him eager for her, like an animal. That was what made her . . . thrill inside. He was a beautiful animal at the peak of his rude animal health. And yet she could always control him. . . . To see his love and his lust and his very mind, for that matter, turned white-hot and forged into a single super-concentrated alloy\u2014whose shape she would determine\u2014that was all she wanted! This particular attempt of Charlotte\u2019s to deploy idealism in the real world ends badly. But others do not. I hope I will not spoil things if I suggest that at the end of the novel she finds herself in precisely the same position as the Soul-Charioteer whose passionate quest for the beauty that is truth can be read about in Plato\u2019s Phaedrus. I Am Charlotte Simmons is sometimes embarrassing, sometimes painful to read, sometimes thrilling, always full of energy. It is above all a deeply interesting attempt to make the novel, once again, into something more significant than personal testimony\u2014or than \u201cWolfean\u201d reportage, however vivid. ...more This book kept me turning the pages but ultimately was pretty lame. Also, Tom Wolfe is a perv . I don't post a lot of reviews, but all through my read of \"I Am Charlotte Simmons\" I knew I wanted to say something. I had the book sitting in my towering TBR pile for years, picked it up several times before, and never made it past the first 50 or so pages. I have unfair expectations for Tom Wolfe; I assumed that as with all of his other books \"Charlotte\" would suck me inside the author's head the moment I started reading. It did not. I finally decided it was time to donate the book or read the I don't post a lot of reviews, but all through my read of \"I Am Charlotte Simmons\" I knew I wanted to say something. I had the book sitting in my towering TBR pile for years, picked it up several times before, and never made it past the first 50 or so pages. I have unfair expectations for Tom Wolfe; I assumed that as with all of his other books \"Charlotte\" would suck me inside the author's head the moment I started reading. It did not. I finally decided it was time to donate the book or read the darn thing through, and so I soldiered on. Turned out, this is as engrossing a read as Wolfe's other books after the first 100 pages. So...only 3 stars? Well, yes. At the end of the day I was surprised at how little Wolfe understood the people he wrote about or the world they live in. Worse, there was not a single vaguely appealing charcter to be found. The best that could be said about any is that they were, at times, pathetic. Satire doesn't work without a single relatable character, and as reportage or editorial this simply fails. I was scanning reviews on another site, and one of the positive reviews started with \"you have to love Charlotte.\" Perhaps that is true, but I can't imagine anyone loving Charlotte in the least. She is an insufferable utterly humorless prig, who clearly believes understanding anything about popular culture is beneath her notice and that made her destruction satisfying. Given the general availability of things like television and the internet in the time covered here (even in the South Mr. Wolfe!) she would need to make a choice to be so utterly naive upon her arrival at college. And even assuming she was raised Amish or in some sort of anti-technology cult (which does not appear to be the case) she should have been able to catch up a bit when she reached civilization. Yet she has no interest in learning or adapting, simply in judging (herself and others) and wondering why everyone else is so awful. When lonliness or awkwardness finally knocks at her door rather than learning (her intellect is purported to be exceptional, and all things can be learned) she chooses magical thinking and abdandonment of self over simple observation and thoughtful modification. In our protaganist I wanted to find Alice, or Gulliver, or Hank Morgan. What I got was an sour combination of Cotton Mather, Gladys Kravitz and Fanny Price. She is not believable, she is not likable, she is not relatable. I suspect she is Tom Wolfe -- I hope not, but if so count him on my list of people with whom I never want to hang out. Things don't really improve when one moves on from looking at just Charlotte. I am not of the generation portrayed here. I received my undergradute degree in 1984 and completed my graduate work in 1989 so it has been over 20 years since I lived on campus. The endless drinking, the random sex, the confusion between sophistication and ennui, the anti-intellectual zeitgest -- that is EXACTLY what college was like in 1980. Actually, forget 1980 -- it could be 1960. This is like \"Animal House,\" with Doug Niedermeyer in drag front and center. Actually, make that 1950 since I imagine these charcters would work as a prequel to the wonderful \"Bonfire of the Vanities\". (\"Kindling the Bonfire: The College Years!.\") Maybe I am lowbrow, but I'll take Blutarsky over Niedermeyer any day. Both are going to hell, but only one is making the trip fun. If Mr. Wolfe was interested in focusing a lens on the milleniul generation, he needed some much fresher research and keener observations. I don't really know how to wrap this up: I enjoyed reading the book, perhaps in part because I found so much of it objectionable, and in part because dude knows his prose. As social commentary, or allegory though, it failed spectacularly. ...more So, I spent Thanksgiving laid up with a nasty cold and nothing to do but read and sleep. I decided to give Charlotte Simmons a go as a break from my recent spate of non-fiction. With every passing minute, I find myself disliking this book more and more. In fact, I'm starting to hate it! I can't tell if my ire is directed at Wolfe's ability to cram a 20 page short story into 700, the book's hasty and entirely unsatisfying ending, the shallow/unbelievable characters who elicit no sympathy/empathy/c So, I spent Thanksgiving laid up with a nasty cold and nothing to do but read and sleep. I decided to give Charlotte Simmons a go as a break from my recent spate of non-fiction. With every passing minute, I find myself disliking this book more and more. In fact, I'm starting to hate it! I can't tell if my ire is directed at Wolfe's ability to cram a 20 page short story into 700, the book's hasty and entirely unsatisfying ending, the shallow/unbelievable characters who elicit no sympathy/empathy/cheering for their victory or defeat, the relentless repetition of certain phrases (i.e., downlighters, ruturtrut and pelvic saddle), his less-than-clever rap lyrics (M.C. Wolfe also failed miserably as a rap lyricist in 'A Man In Full'...give it up, old man!), the constant need to describe the same things over and over (we knew JoJo was 6-10 about 400 pages ago, Tom), the flat, pseudo-clever wordplay, e.g. the Bitsosushi car. It's funny cuz it's Japanese! Hyuk hyuk... I think people think they're getting some really biting satire when Tom Wolfe decides to tackle another decade's zeitgeist. 'Charlotte' isn't satire. It's not even remotely funny and its characters are uninteresting stereotypes completely familiar to anyone who's seen a John Hughes film. Instead, it's a rather creepy look at how an elderly man looks at issues like the sexuality of people 50 years his junior. Seriously, the 50 page lead up to Charlotte's rape/deflowering at the frat formal was gratuitous and rather unsettling - especially so when picturing Wolfe (who dedicated this book to his college-aged daughters, no less!) sitting in his Manhattan apartment in his white suit, late at night, writing about an 18 year old girl losing her virginity...from her point of view. If I wasn't so sick, I'd have taken a long shower after that passage. 'Charlotte Simmons' doesn't even fall into the category of social commentary. Wolfe attacks obvious targets with no new insight. Far out! The jock has a brain! The well-intentioned geek has a devious side. It must be said that I did not go to a big college with big time athletics. But I know this much, if ANYONE came up with a chant as dumb as \"Go go, Jojo!\" at one of our basketball games, they would have certainly been dealt with harshly and expeditiously. Maybe for the '10s, an 80 year old Wolfe can take on the scandalous world of Montessori schools! This book sucked! ...more<---C>Tom Wolfe</---C>", "Title": "I am Charlotte Simmons"},
