{"Comments": "According to the reviews on the back cover, <+++>The Finkler Question</+++> is hilarious. The front cover proclaims that it won the 2010 Man Booker Prize. A reviewer from the London Times asks \"How is it possible to read <---A>Howard Jacobson</---A> and not lose oneself in admiration for the music of his language, the power of his characterization and the penetration of this insight?\" I dunno how exactly, but I did not lose myself in admiration of Jacobson while reading <+++>The Finkler Question</+++> . Two friends of Julian Treslov According to the reviews on the back cover, The Finkler Question is hilarious. The front cover proclaims that it won the 2010 Man Booker Prize. A reviewer from the London Times asks \"How is it possible to read Howard Jacobson and not lose oneself in admiration for the music of his language, the power of his characterization and the penetration of this insight?\" I dunno how exactly, but I did not lose myself in admiration of Jacobson while reading The Finkler Question . Two friends of <---C>Julian Treslove</---C> have both lost their wives. Julian daydreams about losing his, but first he would need to get one. (Most of his girlfriends leave him because he's \"morbid.\" That's perfectly understandable if he's waiting around for them to die tragically in his arms,<---M> which he is</---M>, in his fantasies.) His two friends are Jews, and quite a bit of what I read deals with Julian's percieved differences between himself and his friends. Which I found to be neither interesting nor witty.<---F> I just didn't get it</---F>. I made it a third of the way through the book and finally accepted that I am unable to sympathize at all with the incredibly neurotic Treslove and I am not sufficiently intrigued by what happened in the first 112 pages to finish the book and find out what happens. ...more I don't like the idea that literature is written \"for\" or \"not for\" any people. Sure, you might be able to appreciate War and Peace better if you are a member of the 19th century Russian intelligentsia. But you're a fool if you let a smaller share of comparative appreciation get in your way. I mean, I can't let the fact that I'm middle class and white distract me from the fact that I enjoy listening to Public Enemy. I'm not comfortable with the idea that anything is beyond my empathy. What I'm s I don't like the idea that literature is written \"for\" or \"not for\" any people. Sure, you might be able to appreciate War and Peace better if you are a member of the 19th century Russian intelligentsia. But you're a fool if you let a smaller share of comparative appreciation get in your way. I mean, I can't let the fact that I'm middle class and white distract me from the fact that I enjoy listening to Public Enemy. I'm not comfortable with the idea that anything is beyond my empathy. What I'm saying here, however inelegantly, is that I don't want my background fucking with the way I react to novels or movies or music. I say all this because, although I enjoyed The Finkler Question , my background totally kept getting in the way and kept me from giving it a higher recommendation. Let's start here. The Finkler Question is about three friends. Two are middle aged, one is elderly. Two are Jewish, one is a gentile who is obsessed with Jewishness / convinced of his Jewishness / attempting to transcend Jewishness and become some sort of uber-Jew. Two are recently widowed, the other aspires to widowerhood. All three are Londoners. I was aware of most of this going in, as I am similarly aware that some of this might not absolutely resonate with me, a 20-something, single, American, Irish-Catholic agnostic. Although, like Treslove (the gentile) I sometimes feel like certain tastes, beliefs and idiosyncrasies could be better explained if there were some trace Semitic branches in my family tree. Nobody wants to just interact with fictional characters exactly like themselves. But you do want some relatable sentiment. For me, through no fault of Howard Jacobson, there was a lack of this. And there are certainly parts of the novel that I throughly enjoyed. But a lot of it left me feeling like a witness to an engaging debate whose interference would be unwelcome. The best way I can put it is this: the table next to you at a restaurant is having a intriguing but non-obtrusive family argument. Even if you want to put your two-cents in, it would be wildly inappropriate, and it's likely they could give a shit about your two cents. While this argument of strangers may be engaging, you still can't really relate to it. As of now, there aren't a ton of reviews on this site, so let me go into greater details gist-wise, if anybody's interested. - There isn't really a plot to speak of, and the elements of plot present don't matter. - The novel is mainly concerned with the relationship its characters have with Judaism and \"Jewishness.\"The novel explores what it means to belong to a group, what obligations you have to this group, and what obligations this group has to you. A lot of this can be implied to anything, such as country, religion, family ect. - Jacobson is very talented, and often funny. He deals with serious issues but never loses grasp of his sense of humor. - I'm from the South, where all forms of bigotry and prejudice haven't exactly been eradicated. However, I was somewhat shocked at this novel's depiction of London's contemporary anti-Semitism. I mean, I know it's not extinct or even close to it, but I had no idea it was as prevalent as Jacobson depicts it. - Israel is almost the MacGuffin of the novel. Jacobson gives an interesting cross-section of how the policies of Israel both unite and divide the Jewish community. I'm not wildly enthused, with this review, it's not particularly well-thought out, and I've feel like I've spent too much time worrying about, to steal a joke from Always Sunny . dropping the \"hard J.\" but I've spent too much time on the damn thing to scrap it. Let me try to somehow tidily sum up what I'm basically saying. It's not that you have to be Jewish & English & middle aged & widowed to enjoy this novel. I'm none of those things, and I did enjoy it on many levels. However, this book actively seeks a certain intellectual engagement that can only come through fully with a sense of relation. Therefore, any lack of relatable feelings might compromise your enjoyment of this book. Ugh, look don't take my word for it. I don't regret spending time on this and it has giving me a good share of things to ponder on. Maybe you guys should figure this one out for yourself. ...more I've always been suspicious of the Booker Prize: a solid, stick-in-the-mud reward to literary doggedness and middlebrow worthiness that guarantees reading matter for the leafy home counties if nothing else. As a Nobel Prize lite it tends to award writers for what they mean rather than what they write. Howard Jacobson's The Finkler Question has a central question that falls perfectly in the Booker court: what is Jewishness? And what does it mean to be Jewish in England today? It's a question that I've always been suspicious of the Booker Prize: a solid, stick-in-the-mud reward to literary doggedness and middlebrow worthiness that guarantees reading matter for the leafy home counties if nothing else. As a Nobel Prize lite it tends to award writers for what they mean rather than what they write. Howard Jacobson's The Finkler Question has a central question that falls perfectly in the Booker court: what is Jewishness? And what does it mean to be Jewish in England today? It's a question that it signally fails to answer. Jacobson's method in posing this question is to tell the story of three men and the women who orbit them (my language here merely reflects the novel's sexism rather than my own - I'm a new man , to quote Roots Manuva). The men in question are: Julian Treslove, professional double; Sam Finkler, media philosopher; and Libor Sevcik, a Czech emigre and schoolteacher turned gossip columnist. And that's where the problems start. These people are completely implausible, and live in a world that seems to exist at best in parallel to the real one, at worst not at all. Libor lives in a grand \"apartment\" looking out over Regent's Park (but who in England says apartment when \"flat\" will do?). Likewise Julian Treslove's \"apartment\" is not in Hampstead, but rather in a place that people merely claim to be Hampstead. Very funny to people who live in Hampstead maybe, but for people who couldn't even afford a terraced house in any of London's grottiest boroughs (i.e. most of us) the humour is pretty much academic. Yes, in this book we are in the charmed circle of the do-nothing, loll-about arty-farty rich - people who for no good reason have large \"apartments\" in St. John's Wood, take on and drop BBC jobs at a whim and for whom money is no object and no concern. Added to that, Howard Jacobson's powers of description at no point ruffle the slick surface of the verbiage. It's all talk. I longed for a brief passage of description, and curt, indicative sentence that telegraphically summarized a feeling, a state of mind, the overall tilt of the narrative. But there's nothing of the sort. It's all anecdote after anecdote. In fact I have to wonder whether it's a novel at all. The result is a storyline that meanders like a slow-moving river without the slightest danger of penury, dearth or excitement. We are in a world of talkers, or tale tellers, of babblers, whose telltale babbleologies are meant to make us laugh, make us cry, but leave us feeling rather\u2026bored. Yes, Howard Jacobson has managed to take one of the most interesting and controversial questions of our time (the Jewish one that is) and make it dull. I suppose that that is also an achievement of sorts. ...more I had no clue what I was signing up for when I began reading this. The author began by making a very big deal about the pain of being a Jew in the modern world and ended the book with an impassioned plea to see Jews for what they really are, half right and half wronged, like the rest of us. I appreciate that unambiguously. Nobody should be singled out for persecution, I agree. What I don't appreciate is being bombarded with the words 'Jew', 'Ju', 'Julian' with freakish consistency on every page. I had no clue what I was signing up for when I began reading this. The author began by making a very big deal about the pain of being a Jew in the modern world and ended the book with an impassioned plea to see Jews for what they really are, half right and half wronged, like the rest of us. I appreciate that unambiguously. Nobody should be singled out for persecution, I agree. What I don't appreciate is being bombarded with the words 'Jew', 'Ju', 'Julian' with freakish consistency on every page. Now, mind you, this isn't because I'm an anti-Semite. Because I'm not. In my culture, anti-Semitism is merely something other people do to other people, or nothing at all. We have other people to hate. Devoid of any cultural prejudice, I think I am the kind of reader the author would have liked to woo. Did he succeed? He did succeed in convincing me that anti-Semitism, like all other prejudices, is an irrational phenomenon, a bandwagon for haters. The word it seems has a ring to it, the kind of ring that makes people want to be an anti-Semite, a secret dirty ring, something like 'Hey man you an anti-Semite?' 'Yeah I just started. Isn't it empowering? It helped me focus my dislike for humanity into a hatred for the Jews. I feel so much better already. Here, let me show you the swastika I had to tattoo on my ass as part of the initiation.' 'Hoo Haa! Let's go maim some money-grubbing, manipulative, motherfucking Jews after that!' Through Julian Treslove, the neurotic protagonist whose life is a farce, the author tries to explore the essential quality of Jewishness, to find out what separates them from the rest as a culture. Treslove, crazy cat that he is, wants to learn the knack of thinking Jewishly. He essentially wants to be a Jew because he finds their ease with the ways of the world in contrast to his own chronic sentimentality and unease. His best friend, Sam Finkler is an ambitious, self-centred Jew who hates being stereotyped as a Jew even though he fits the bill better than any one. In fact, he is ashamed of being a Jew as is evident by the ludicrous association of ASHamed Jews that he is part of. Except that it's not really shame. Nobody parades around shame since normally, it's too shameful a matter to do that. In Sam Finkler's case, it's more like pomposity. Julian decides to call all Jews Finklers since that's how he's got to know them. Hence, The Finkler Question. Yay! Though I have a sneaking suspicion he did that just to reduce the Jew word count. I found the narrative similar to The God Of Small Things, where the plot revolves in time and space around a single event of life-changing proportions. I just hope the Booker Prize isn't going formulaic. The event in this case is also a farce, like much of Julian's life, a life-changing farce. A woman accosts him, proceeds to slam his face into a glass window, relieves him of all his valuables before he can react and whispers in his ear \"You Jew\". LOL. After this, he goes down a spiral of rabbis and Bar Mitzvahs and other weird Jewish names. He's overwhelmed by all the Jewishness, us even more so. He meets a Jewish woman next and promptly begins to obsesses about his uncircumcised penis, reads ancient Jewish religious texts to get a deeper understanding of being Jewish and of having an uncircumcised penis. Whoa. Give me a break. The book is funny in places but I maintain that the best part about it is that it's crystal clear about what it propounds. There is no ambiguity of subject matter, no secret center which the reader finds himself looking for. If someone asks me what this book was about, I now have the shortest answer I've ever had for this question. Jews. Here, let me say it a few more times, I think the author would appreciate it. Jews. Jews. Jews. Everything else is there just for it to not seem like that. Talking about being Jewish has to be the most Jewish trait of all, no Mr. Jacobson? ...more I kept wanting to quit this unlikeable cramped book, but I didn't, because I kept waiting to see what the Booker Prize committee saw in it. I never did. I'm not sure if this book's unpleasantness says anything valid about British society or British Jewry, but I tend to think the solipsistic paranoia is all the author's. None of the characters are more than a sketched idea, lacking realistic grounding. For example, despite the all too minutely detailed fear of anti-Jewish violence in 21st century I kept wanting to quit this unlikeable cramped book, but I didn't, because I kept waiting to see what the Booker Prize committee saw in it. I never did. I'm not sure if this book's unpleasantness says anything valid about British society or British Jewry, but I tend to think the solipsistic paranoia is all the author's. None of the characters are more than a sketched idea, lacking realistic grounding. For example, despite the all too minutely detailed fear of anti-Jewish violence in 21st century London(!?), and the constant harking back to the Holocaust that entails, we never learn what Libor, the 90 year Czech refugee who is one of the book's triumvirate of main characters, went through during Nazism, or even whether he was in the UK or Czechoslovakia then.. This is typical of the book, characters are not in any way rooted in the accoutrements of real life -- it is a novel of ideas, and only ideas, and only a few unlikeable ideas at that. (Hepzibah, the novel's only living female character, is similarly sketchy. She is supposed to be quite young when we first meet her, yet her character develops as an enormous earthy traditional Jewish-cooking mother figure -- randomly twice divorced). I won't get into how repugnant the \"message\" of the book is, that's playing Jacobson's game. Suffice it to say that I wouldn't want to meet any of his characters, and they bear no resemblance to any thing I recognize as part of Jewish life, thankfully. ...more I never reviewed this book after I read it --- (read it ways back when it first came out) --but another GR's friend just brought this book to my attention. I never understood why it won the Man Booker prize. Set in London.... Jewish friends discuss the state of Israel - life -and love --anti-Semitism in England -the meaning of Judaism (religion or philosophy)...etc. Some things were funny -but overall things become tedious and even offensive very quickly. I never recommend this book! I found this book laborious and slow moving. The parameters were too constrained to comfortably contain Julian, the main character's obsession with Jews and his wishful wondering if, by any quirk of fate, he could have something in his ancestry that would allow him to lay claim to being partly Jewish. This tiresome obsession was sparked by an incident in which he was mugged by someone who, he believed, mistook him for a Jew. From then on Julian's thoughts are dominated by ways of being Jewish. H I found this book laborious and slow moving. The parameters were too constrained to comfortably contain Julian, the main character's obsession with Jews and his wishful wondering if, by any quirk of fate, he could have something in his ancestry that would allow him to lay claim to being partly Jewish. This tiresome obsession was sparked by an incident in which he was mugged by someone who, he believed, mistook him for a Jew. From then on Julian's thoughts are dominated by ways of being Jewish. He focuses narrowly on the lives of his friends, Sam Finkler (an ASHamed Jew)and his old professor, Libor Sevcik a Czech-Jewish refugee who fled his country in 1948. He has a clandestine affair with Tyler Finkler, wife of Sam, who converted to Judaism when she married Sam, but he later gets involved with Libor's niece Hephzibah who is the curator of an Anglo-Jewish museum. Both women he sees primarily in terms of their Jewishness, which creates great angst as he feels excluded from the cosy Jewish fold and obsesses over the fact that he just doesn't \"get\" things the way Jewish people do. He is actually an unlikeable, insecure, pretty miserable character. This is absolutely fine as it is fiction. What is less bearable is his obsessive mental meanderings, which, for me, became a torturous route to a dead end. I didn't really want to be his escort on that journey - if I hadn't paid so much for the book, and if the novel didn't carry the prestige of the Man Booker Prize for 2010, I would have hopped off the bus long before it reached the terminus. ...more What to make of this? It was a Booker winner in 2010. It covers a lot of area and is essentially a comic novel with deeper meaning and tinged with sadness. There are three main protagonists; Sam Finkler (a journalist and TV pundit), Julian Treslove, an old school friend and former BBC employee (now Brad Pitt lookalike) and Libor Sevcik; a former teacher and friend. Finkler and Treslove are about 50; Finkler and Sevcik are Jewish. Treslove thinks of all Jews as Finklers, hence the title. The book What to make of this? It was a Booker winner in 2010. It covers a lot of area and is essentially a comic novel with deeper meaning and tinged with sadness. There are three main protagonists; Sam Finkler (a journalist and TV pundit), Julian Treslove, an old school friend and former BBC employee (now Brad Pitt lookalike) and Libor Sevcik; a former teacher and friend. Finkler and Treslove are about 50; Finkler and Sevcik are Jewish. Treslove thinks of all Jews as Finklers, hence the title. The book is about what it is to be Jewish in 21st century Britain, but it is also about the great debates about Israel and the holocaust; not to mention being male and having a mid-life crisis, bereavement and losing a partner, fidelity and betrayal and friendship. Finkler and Libor have recently lost their wives, although Finkler has always had mistresses and continues in this mode. Treslove has a somewhat chequered history with women and cannot work out why women never seem to want to stay with him. The book takes as its starting point a dinner the three have to mark that they are all now alone. On the way home Treslove is mugged by a woman. She says something to him whilst relieving him of his valuables, which sounds to him like \u201cYou Ju\u201d. Treslove then becomes obsessed with being Jewish and all it entails. Although there are moments that are quite funny and Jacobsen does have a mordant wit and a good line in satire and self-deprecation, the whole did not work for me. One of the problems is that sometimes Jacobson does not know when to stop; he stretches an idea out until it is overdone, this is a description of Treslove: \u201cHe was a man who ordinarily woke to a sense of loss. He could not remember a single morning of his life when he had woken to a sense of possession. When there was nothing palpable he could reproach himself for having lost, he found the futility he needed in world affairs or sport. A plane had crashed\u2014it didn\u2019t matter where. An eminent and worthy person had been disgraced\u2014it didn\u2019t matter how. The English cricket team had been trounced\u2014it didn\u2019t matter by whom. Since he didn\u2019t follow or give a fig for sport, it was nothing short of extraordinary that his abiding sense of underachievement should have found a way to associate itself with the national cricket team\u2019s. He did the same with tennis, with footballers, with boxers, with snooker players even. When a fly and twitchy south Londoner called Jimmy White went into the final session of the World Snooker Championship seven frames ahead with eight to play and still managed to end the night a loser, Treslove retired to his bed a beaten man and woke broken-hearted. \u201c There is a streak of nastiness present as well. The character of Tamara Krausz is a very thinly disguised Jacqueline Rose (a feminist psychoanalyst who is very critical of Zionism, whilst being Jewish herself). This is how she is described; \u201cnever appeared in public looking anything other than an executive of a fashion consultancy, at once businesslike and softly feminine\u2026a woman whose quiet authority commanded respect not only in England but in America and the Middle East, wherever anti-Zionists\u2014Finkler would not have gone so far as to say anti-Semites\u2014were gathered. \u201c Finkler imagines what would happen if they ended up in bed together; \u201cHe knew what would happen if by some mischance or mutual misunderstanding they ended up in bed together and she screamed the dialectic of her anti-Zionism in his ear\u2014he would come into her six or seven times and then kill her. Slice off her tongue and then slit through her throat. \u201c I know this is imagination, but it still feels like Patrick Bateman territory. There are other examples, as when Finkler is out with a mistress, here is a description of her; \u201cOther than her d\u00e9colletage, which was bigger than she was, there was little to observe on Ronit Kravitz\u2019s person. Under the table she wore high-heeled shoes with diamantes on them, but these were not visible. And though her hair was a beautiful blue-black, catching light from the chandeliers, it too, like every eye, fell into the boundless golden chasm which she carried before her as a proud disabled person carries an infirmity. The Manawatu Gorge was how Finkler thought of it when he wasn\u2019t in love with her, as he wasn\u2019t in love with her now. \u201c There was too much of this, to go along with the philosophizing and the debates about what it is to be Jewish today. There is plenty to spark debate; \u201cHow dare you, a non Jew -- and I have to say it impresses me not at all that you grew up in awe of Jewish ethics, if anything your telling me so chills me -- how dare you even think you can tell Jews what sort of country they may live in, when it is you, a European Gentile, who made a separate country for Jews a necessity? ... Only from a world from which Jews believe they have nothing to fear will they consent to learn lessons in humility. Until then, the Jewish state's offer of safety to Jews the world over -- yes, Jews first -- while it might not be equitable cannot sanely be construed as racist\u201d Jacobson reflects all sides of the debate, but there is a certain irony about reflecting on Anti-Semitism whilst perpetuating stereotypes about gender and disability. This was also too long and the last couple of hundred pages wandered a little. Despite most of the critics raving about this I really didn\u2019t like it. ...more Really really really great. hard to put down. touching and funny. unexpectedly challenging. presents a difficult topic in a hitting and fearless fashion. empowered me with a nuanced perspective and vocabulary with which to challenge prevailing or simplistic notions of the Jewish identity. every time I put it down I had a strange yearning to call my grandmother, to remember and to be close. Man Booker Prize Winner for 2010. Look at the back of the book. Everyone (other writers, newspapers etc) say how wonderful this book is. How he is the funniest writer alive. Blah Blah Blah. Maybe I am not the demographic for a Jewish crisis of existence book but it did not make me laugh once, nothing really happended and it was as dull as dish water. Repition of themes, events, sayings, jokes, characteristics cannot be expected to carry a novel over 370 pages. And I imagine that the J E and W keys Man Booker Prize Winner for 2010. Look at the back of the book. Everyone (other writers, newspapers etc) say how wonderful this book is. How he is the funniest writer alive. Blah Blah Blah. Maybe I am not the demographic for a Jewish crisis of existence book but it did not make me laugh once, nothing really happended and it was as dull as dish water. Repition of themes, events, sayings, jokes, characteristics cannot be expected to carry a novel over 370 pages. And I imagine that the J E and W keys on Mr Jacobsons keyboard are worn clean off. The main character - Julian Treslove - is not jewish but either thinks he is or wants to be and the author makes it that everything that happens to him is part of the Jewish Question. In the nearest we get to comedy, he has fathered two kids by two different women without knowing it and is reunited them in later life. He is failed at the BBC and has a distrust of it. He grew up with the more successful Finkler - who is indeed Jewish but ashamed of it. They meet for a meal with their old teacher - a 90 year old jew. The teacher and Finkler have just lost their wives - Treslove wishes he had a wife to lose. Although he does get off with (you guessed it) a jewess in the course of the book. On the way back from the meal, Treslove is mugged. Is it an anti semitic attack? Why shoud it be? Oh - cause thats what the author wants it to be. He wants to evaluate what it is to be Jewish in Britain today. Relentlessly. As if nothing else matters. It just goes on and on and on. So how / why did it win the award? Look at the reviews on Amazon - Current standing - 23 people have given it 5 stars. 76 gave it 1 star. Its unusual for so many to come out with an emperors got no clothes on - but I am with the 76. Utter rubbish. ...more This is a great book. Don't let the philistines of this pitiful site ruin it for you. I picked it up because I hold Wodehouse in such esteem for his comedic novels (not that I was expecting Wodehouse here, he just introduced me to this category of writing). I had to read something more contemporary and since this won the booker prize I just bought it. The first thing I must elucidate is that Finkler and the others seem to be more concerned with melancholic satire and the humour may not be too ama This is a great book. Don't let the philistines of this pitiful site ruin it for you. I picked it up because I hold Wodehouse in such esteem for his comedic novels (not that I was expecting Wodehouse here, he just introduced me to this category of writing). I had to read something more contemporary and since this won the booker prize I just bought it. The first thing I must elucidate is that Finkler and the others seem to be more concerned with melancholic satire and the humour may not be too amaze but to more spur the reader. It does seem to make me smile more often than laugh. That's okay though, I think this story might help me deal with my incapability too feel love at the moment. A sentence in the 4-ish chapter explains \"he could not love because he could not weep for them\" segments of the novel seem so beautifully idealistic. So poetic and lovely that you have too keep on reading. I have always been a hopeless romantic and an idealist. If there are more sentences that glorify the emotionally affected or the emotional idealist then I'll keep on reading because I am extremely interested. Sure I have not lost a wife of some 30-60 years but I have been divorced from the woman of my dreams (I can feel a lifelessness in my chest). I also like the fact these characters are so at odds with work, life... success. These are old men, I can't say I hate my job but I'm sure as hell not great at it. The characters portray the normal man with a life of experience. I am sick of the glorification of the young in popular culture. Give me more novels about our glorious and estranged elders I dare you. ...more I am still to read Roddy Doyle's Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha but, to date, I've read more than half of the Man Booker winning novels. None of those made me laugh out loud as much as this book, Howard Jacobson's The Finkler Question. Twice at least not counting the grins and the smiles that came in between. Funny and refreshing. Most of the half of those books that I've read were downright depressing including the last winner, Julian Barnes The Sense of an Ending. So, this book by Jacobson that won in 2 I am still to read Roddy Doyle's Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha but, to date, I've read more than half of the Man Booker winning novels. None of those made me laugh out loud as much as this book, Howard Jacobson's The Finkler Question. Twice at least not counting the grins and the smiles that came in between. Funny and refreshing. Most of the half of those books that I've read were downright depressing including the last winner, Julian Barnes The Sense of an Ending. So, this book by Jacobson that won in 2010 really came as a surprise. I did not know that the Man Booker jurors also have funny bones in them. Who would not laugh at something like this: \"She looked too amazed by life to be English. Her curls were too curly. Her lips were too big. Her teeth too white and even, like one big arc of tooth with regular vertical markings. And her breasts had too much elevation and attack in them to be English. Had Jane Austen's heroines had breasts like these they would not have worried about ending up without a husband.\" I almost fell on the floor while reading this inside our hotel room in Cebu last week. The images of Lizzie, Eleonor, Marianne and Emma (those 3 novels I've read) immediately came into my mind and I thought that oh well Jacobson made a good point! Although it is of course hard to judge because of the way these ladies dressed up during Austen's time, i.e., with their bosoms fully covered up to their necks but considering then silicon implants were not discovered by science yet. However, I would imagine that Jacobson's propensity to quote other authors, books and British stuff can also turn other readers off. That is if they are not familiar with Jane Austen (I know, I know but I have voraciously reading friends here in Goodreads who are still to read any of Austen's works) and any of those other references. Of course, they would not get the joke and they would say that the book is not funny and rate this with less than 3 stars. In fact, had I read this in 2010, I think I would have given this only 3 stars. Aside from the reason already mentioned, Jacobson writes in wild abandon. If Julian Barnes writes in a subtle controlled manner, Jacobson writes and writes everything what probably goes inside his mind up to the extent that what he is writing is too detailed to be interesting or up to the brink of being misunderstood or worse, up to the point of him getting hatred from his reader. One of this book's primary theme is people's prejudices against Jews. That, I guess, is an extremely sensitive matter especially in Europe and the US (I admittedly don't feel it to be that sensitive here in Asia since I have not met a Jew myself). With that sensitive theme, Jacobson took the risk and I would say that it was a big scary risk. Here is another example of his writing. This time, serious: \"But what if the foetor Judaicus was not hellish in origin at all? What if the smell of medieval Christians sniffed on the horned and hairy bodies of Jews was simply the smell of fear? If so - if there are people who will murder you because they are aroused by the odour of your fear - is the concept of anti-Semitism itself an aphrodisiac, an erotic spur to loathing? Could be. She loathed the word itself. Anti-Semitism. It had a medicinal, antiseptic, ring to it. It was something you kept locked away in your bathroom cabinet. She had long ago made a vow never to open the cupboard. If you can help it, don't see the thing: if you can avoid it, don't use the word. Anti-Semite., anti-Semitic, anti-Semite - its unmusicality pained her ear, its triteness degraded her.\" This interesting concoction of funny and serious undertones plus the wild writing make this novel a very interesting read. A splashy way of opening my \"new\" whole reading experience for 2012. I hope to read more novel novels and Jacobson showed me a sample of how his dish could be a totally different fare from may be not just with the other Man Booker winners but other contemporary still alive novelists. The other theme of the book is also very interesting: male friendship. The three main protagonists: Julian Treslove , the 40+ Gentile who suspect himself to be a Jew, Sam Finkler , his competitor-friend, also fortyish but a Jew writing philosophy books and Libor the aging recently-widowed man who showed \"the way\" to his two younger friends. What a way to open the year! What a way! ...more This is perhaps the funniest book I've ever read; it's also seriously brilliant. This is a novel that deserved to win the Booker prize . It's about anti-semitism in particular, but more generally about other-ness and self, about hatred, jealousy and love. The first 2/3 is laugh out loud funny, so much so that I attracted attention from my kids (what's so funny, Mom?), my h (who took the kobo from me to read a passage) and strangers who looked around to see the hilarity for themselves (in the girl This is perhaps the funniest book I've ever read; it's also seriously brilliant. This is a novel that deserved to win the Booker prize . It's about anti-semitism in particular, but more generally about other-ness and self, about hatred, jealousy and love. The first 2/3 is laugh out loud funny, so much so that I attracted attention from my kids (what's so funny, Mom?), my h (who took the kobo from me to read a passage) and strangers who looked around to see the hilarity for themselves (in the girls' change room, in the lobby of a nursing home). The last third, while funny in spots, is necessarily more serious as the book draws toward its end, and each of the main characters is inescapably confronted with humanity's worse aspects, each of them choosing a different response. The three main characters are an elderly widower, a middle-aged widower, and a middle-aged man who has, his whole life, been a mourner in search of an object to be mourned. The first two are Jewish types. Libor is a nearly 90 year old holocaust and Communist era survivor who moved between Hollywood and London. Sam Finkler is an ASHamed Jew (the name of the organization he co-founded), a loud, successful philosopher-author of self-help books and tv personality. While they have an overabundance of identity to cope with, Julian is their foil, a Gentile with too little, a wannabe something who makes a living by imitation as a celebrity look-alike, a dreamer who wants to hold a dying woman in his arms, and if not that, to be a persecuted Jew. The humour in the novel comes from playing with these types, taking a core of truth and exaggerating it in caricature to highlight its characteristics. And yet the characters aren't simple or flat, but rounded out and turned around so that we can see other dimensions of who they are and how they interact with each other, their children, their wives, their lovers. I don't know if it sounds as funny as it is, or as sharp. I wasn't all that attracted to the book by the descriptions I read of it, but it was available as an e-book at my library, so I downloaded it. Readers on amazon are about evenly divided between people who loved it and people who hated it, which I find interesting and not uncommon. I've been on both sides of that fence. And obviously, in this case, I'm on the side of being wowed. By the end of the first page of The Finkler Question , I knew that Howard Jacobson could write, but it wasn't until the end of the first chapter that I realized just how well. He's a smart guy that Jacobson, and a compassionate one, who isn't afraid to stick his hands into some of humanity's nasty bits. And yet I didn't end the book feeling at all depressed by it. If anything I felt elated by the brilliance of the novel, its humour and its honesty. This is what I drew from it. There are various responses one can have to the pain of this world and to life, but the best of them is to live fully, mourn honestly and love one another. ...more Let there be nary a doubt, this book is first, foremost, and damn near exclusively about being Jewish. Jewish in England, Jewish in culture, Jewish in language, Jewish in world affairs, Jewish against Israel, Jewish for Israel, Jewish in humor, Jewish in intellect, Jewish in guilt, Jewish in pleasures, Jewish in the head, Jewish in the schlang, Jewish in food, Jewish in ceremony, Jewish as chosen, Jewish as persecuted, and Jewish in just about any other way you can imagine, stereotyped or otherw Let there be nary a doubt, this book is first, foremost, and damn near exclusively about being Jewish. Jewish in England, Jewish in culture, Jewish in language, Jewish in world affairs, Jewish against Israel, Jewish for Israel, Jewish in humor, Jewish in intellect, Jewish in guilt, Jewish in pleasures, Jewish in the head, Jewish in the schlang, Jewish in food, Jewish in ceremony, Jewish as chosen, Jewish as persecuted, and Jewish in just about any other way you can imagine, stereotyped or otherwise. It was even Jewish in the title, though you won\u2019t appreciate the reference until you\u2019re a bit of the way into it. To be honest, it was downright obsessive. But I liked it well enough, despite its relentlessness. I have an appetite for the whole Semitic scene \u2013 a necessity to get through this one. I wasn\u2019t a big fan of the main character, Julian. He was a Gentile who was about as nondescript as they come. He only ever showed much color or depth when he took on a kind of quasi-Jewish persona. The two friends he hung around with in London were Jews: clever, worldly and in Julian's mind, at least, exclusionary. They had both recently lost their wives, which was a good reason to spend more time with them, for support. One of the friends, Finkler, was a contemporary and a rival of sorts. He was a successful writer, academic, pop-philosopher and TV talk show guest. The other friend, Libor, was much older, Czech-born, wise and urbane. He had at one time been a Hollywood gossip columnist. Julian wanted to join the club and saw Jewishness as his in. This is further proof of my point: even the goy was Jew-obsessed. At least this gave Jacobson a device for framing the culture from an outsider\u2019s point-of-view, and allowed him to belabor his themes as though to the uninitiated. Parts of this were funny and parts were insightful. At its core, though, it really is all about one thing. If you think that this one thing can sustain you for the length of a book, have at it. It\u2019s a broad topic, at least. I\u2019m giving it 3 stars, but it bordered on 4. ...more Sometimes bitter coffee secretes more flavor on palate especially if we cling to trite routine of sweet one's. Why there is so much problem in being a loser ? or is it uncoolness to be the secondary character in life. Aren't we confused or perplexed in any stage of life ? Is that life is always taut. Or is it discursive ? And this is what this book was. I loved it book for three reasons : (1) The honeylike Jewishness squeezing from it. (2) Hephzibah - The most catchy name I ever heard in life. (3) T Sometimes bitter coffee secretes more flavor on palate especially if we cling to trite routine of sweet one's. Why there is so much problem in being a loser ? or is it uncoolness to be the secondary character in life. Aren't we confused or perplexed in any stage of life ? Is that life is always taut. Or is it discursive ? And this is what this book was. I loved it book for three reasons : (1) The honeylike Jewishness squeezing from it. (2) Hephzibah - The most catchy name I ever heard in life. (3) The identified emotion with its protagonist Tresolve, a loser, envious, or confused soul. At some occasions this book seriously titillates in your belly, and somewhere it press the down the ports of your brain on its intellectual understanding. During my childhood I had a best friend, he still is, to whom with I was always in constant state of jealousy for his rich fortune stacked with multiple layers of his possessed talents. The same was with Tresolve and his Jewish best friend Finkler, to whom Treslove always despised in his secret voice. For being skillful and most of all for his Jewishness. Also they had a Professor - Libor - a mourning widower (Finkler was also a widower but not mournful). The ingredients were mixed with partner infidelities, Palestine, Israel, Gaza, Jewish history, Circumcision (which I found the most funny one), and interminable grief and guilt of unshared life, and last the death which is always present in every Booker porridge- here it was suicide. Again this book was brilliantly written and little tough at certain places. I am, being from India, very naive with Jewish rituals, so nearly 10-15% book went over my head. But I loved it :) \"Libor and Malkie had wanted to be buried in the same grave, one above the other, but there had been objections to that, as there were objections to everything, in death as in life, though no one was sure whether on religious grounds or simply because the earth was too stony to take a grave deep enough for two. And anyway, Malkie had joked, they would only end up fighting over who was to be on top. So they lay democratically, side by side, in their decorous Queen-size bed. \" The whole structure of the book goes like : Page 1-70 : Serious. 70-220: Comedy. 220-307: Rambling, serious, don't know what, grim and chocked up in the end. I am stripping one mark because this books went awry in last 50-60 pages. It was actually possible to reduce it down by 70-80 pages which I felt little stretchy. But it was good, and to read this requires little high understanding. And it is not surprise that it went so low in goodreads. I am definitely going to read 'Kalooki nights' and 'J'. ...more my 2nd booker prize winner (2010) in about as many days. winning has caused quite a bit a controversy and even before winning lots of ink spilled debating whether this was any good and antisemitism in UK, and self-anti-semitism (a la tony judt The Memory Chalet ) and zionoism/israeliism (a la grossman To the End of the Land ) and racism in general in uk especially (a la malkani Londonstani and barnes Arthur & George ) and passing and friendship and sex and polemics and much more. fun how fic my 2nd booker prize winner (2010) in about as many days. winning has caused quite a bit a controversy and even before winning lots of ink spilled debating whether this was any good and antisemitism in UK, and self-anti-semitism (a la tony judt The Memory Chalet ) and zionoism/israeliism (a la grossman To the End of the Land ) and racism in general in uk especially (a la malkani Londonstani and barnes Arthur & George ) and passing and friendship and sex and polemics and much more. fun how fiction and stir people up. a very good book and deserves a large readership, but not as good in digging deep into psyche of monsters, greed, racism, obsession, natural goodness, religion as the root of all evil as unsworth's 1992 booker prize winner Sacred Hunger (though i gave them same star rating, which is more a problem of the stars than me, hah). this jacobson book though does have some humor and bbc spoofing is good. and damn, just what is up with uk antisemitism? though i must say i am more a palestine leaning one myownself. ...more Mind numbingly boring, self indulgent navel gazing, attempted intellectualisation of mid life crisis wankery. Julian Treslove is a 49 year old Gentile living in present day London whose life has been a series of disappointments: he has movie star good looks but can't seem to sustain a relationship with a woman for more than a few months; he was let go from his production job at the BBC for his overly morbid programs on Radio 3, a station known for its solemnity; and he has fathered two boys, who ridicule and despise him. Even worse, he compares poorly to his friend, rival, and former school classmate Sa Julian Treslove is a 49 year old Gentile living in present day London whose life has been a series of disappointments: he has movie star good looks but can't seem to sustain a relationship with a woman for more than a few months; he was let go from his production job at the BBC for his overly morbid programs on Radio 3, a station known for its solemnity; and he has fathered two boys, who ridicule and despise him. Even worse, he compares poorly to his friend, rival, and former school classmate Sam Finkler, a pop philosopher, radio and television personality, and author of best selling books such as The Existentialist in the Kitchen and John Duns Scotus and Self Esteem: A Manual for the Menstruating, which have made him wealthy and respected, with a beautiful wife and three successful children. However, the one thing that Julian desires most of all is to become Jewish, like Sam and their mutual friend and former teacher Libor Sevcik, a Czech whose tell all biographies of Hollywood starlets such as Greta Garbo and Marlene Dietrich have earned him fortune and notoriety. Julian refers to Jews as Finklers, after his friend, and frequently wonders how they think, why they are smarter and more successful than him, and how he can understand and be more like them. The three men engage in frequent discussion about Israel, Palestine, and Jewish life in London; understandably, Julian is always an outsider, despite his desire to become one with his friends. Libor and Sam are contrasts in character. Libor is pro-Israel yet reasonable in his beliefs, whereas Sam is fervently anti-Zionist, and openly supports the Palestinian cause. At the beginning of the novel, the three men meet for dinner at Sevcik's lavish apartment in Regent's Park. Their discussion is more somber than usual, as Libor and Sam have recently become widowed, and Julian acts as a honorary third widower. Julian refuses Sam's offer of a ride in his limousine, and decides to walk home. While gazing at violins in a store window he is suddenly attacked and robbed, and he convinces himself that his assailant has mistaken him for a Jew. Other than a broken nose and a loss of pride he isn't badly injured, but the crime and its aftermath lead him to examine who he is (is he Jewish after all?), and his relationships with his friends, women he has dated, and his two sons. As the crisis in the Middle East worsens, acts of violence against Jews and their establishments in London become more common. Sam is invited to join a group, which he co-opts and renames ASHamed Jews, which engages in verbal warfare against supporters of the state of Israel. Through his close friendships with Libor, Sam and other Jews of various backgrounds and beliefs that he meets, Julian becomes more exposed to their lives, in his fervent attempt to answer \"The Finkler Question\": what does it mean to be Jewish in the 21st century? The Finkler Question touches on a number of other vital and compelling topics: men and their relationships to each other; male competition; the insecurity of middle aged men and women; infidelity; and multiculturalism in the modern society. Jacobson deftly weaves these topics throughout this brilliant novel, which is filled with humor and pathos. This is definitely one of my favorite novels of the year, and it replaces The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet as my favorite of the current list of Booker Prize finalists. ...more As my five stars say, \"it was amazing\"!! Funny. Scathing. Humourous. Satiric. Trivial. Serious. 'Jocoserious'. Mad. Repetitive. Circular. Sensible. Nonsensical. Touching. The Finkler Question has something to do with Jewishness, something to do with Jewish people, nothing to do with 'Issrrae', something to do with the image of Israel, and everything to do with human nature. Go read it!!! Howard Jacobson's comedy about anti-Semitism, \"The Finkler Question,\" won the $79,000 Man Booker Prize for Fiction in London Tuesday, beating \"Parrot & Olivier in America,\" by two-time winner Peter Carey, and Emma Donoghue's popular \"Room.\" Jacobson, 68, who remains far better known in his native England than in this country, has been a prolific writer of comic novels, mostly about Jews and Jewish identity, since 1983. Several have landed on the Booker long list. That Jacobson could write a c Howard Jacobson's comedy about anti-Semitism, \"The Finkler Question,\" won the $79,000 Man Booker Prize for Fiction in London Tuesday, beating \"Parrot & Olivier in America,\" by two-time winner Peter Carey, and Emma Donoghue's popular \"Room.\" Jacobson, 68, who remains far better known in his native England than in this country, has been a prolific writer of comic novels, mostly about Jews and Jewish identity, since 1983. Several have landed on the Booker long list. That Jacobson could write a comedy about anti-Semitism isn't shocking nowadays. A springy piece of barbed wire runs from Charlie Chaplin's \"The Great Dictator\" through Mel Brooks's \"The Producers,\" TV's \"Hogan's Heroes,\" Sarah Silverman's Nazi riffs and all the way to Tova Reich's outrageous satire \"My Holocaust,\" which dared to tweak Elie Wiesel and the schlocky aspect of the \"never forget\" industry. Although there is a plot, \"The Finkler Question\" is really a series of tragicomic meditations on one of humanity's most tenacious expressions of malice, which I realize sounds about as much fun as sitting shiva, but Jacobson's unpredictable wit is more likely to clobber you than his pathos. In these pages, he's refined the funny shtick of \"Kalooki Nights\" (2007) to produce a more cerebral comedy about the bizarre metastasis of anti-Semitism and the exhausting complications of Zionism. So yes, it's witty, but is it good for the Jews? I'll leave that to Rick Sanchez, but no other book has given me such a clear sense of the benevolent disguises that anti-Jewish sentiments can wear. And no one wears them more attractively than Julian Treslove, the handsome, middle-aged gentile at the center of \"The Finkler Question.\" Chronically anxious and poisonously romantic, Julian works as a celebrity double. He \"didn't look like anybody famous in particular,\" Jacobson admits, but he \"looked like many famous people in general, and so was in demand if not by virtue of verisimilitude, at least by virtue of versatility.\" That chameleon-like nature, along with his favorite fantasy of a lover dying poetically in his arms, gives some idea of the grasping, blood-sucking quality of this pleasant, lonely man, \"whose life had been one absurd disgrace after another.\" The story opens with a tiny burst of action -- the only real action you'll get in this ruminative novel. Julian is walking home from a pleasant dinner with two old Jewish friends who have recently lost their wives. Their grief, Jacobson notes, allows him to luxuriate vicariously in widowed reveries. As usual, Julian is imagining the calamities that could befall him -- a crane dashing out his brains, a terrorist opening fire, a road sign bruising his shin -- when suddenly he's mugged. By a woman. His injuries are minor, but while emptying his pockets, she mutters what sounds like \"You Ju!\" Julian is exhilarated. That Chekhovian touch of absurdity adds some essential buoyancy to what can be an excessively brooding tale. Julian becomes obsessed with the mugger's obscure curse. \"You Jules\"? \"You jewel\"? \"You Jew\"? Could his assailant, his \"muggerette,\" have been an anti-Semite lashing out at Julian's \"essential Jewishness\"? It's a conundrum that awakens his long-simmering envy of his two Jewish friends and makes him determined to be a Jew himself -- the ultimate celebrity identity to stretch over the husk of his soul. \"He wondered about training to be a rabbi. . . . What about a lay rabbi?\" Should he get circumcised? Should he read Maimonides? One of his two Jewish friends is Libor, a retired celebrity reporter, still deeply shaken by the death of his wife and shocked by the predicament of surviving her. The other fresh widower is Sam Finkler, an old schoolmate, the first Jewish person Julian ever met, the prototype in his mind of all Jews -- thus \"The Finkler Question.\" Finkler is confident and bold, a successful TV personality and the author of a series of pop philosophy books, such as \"The Existentialist in the Kitchen\" and \"The Little Book of Household Stoicism.\" \"What Sam had,\" Jacobson writes, \"was a sort of obliviousness to failure, a grandstanding cheek, which Treslove could only presume was part and parcel of the Finkler heritage. . . . Such confidence, such certainty of right. . . . They always had something you didn't, some verbal or theological reserve they could draw on, that would leave you stumped for a response.\" Desperately afraid of stereotyping Jews, Julian nonetheless luxuriates in all the classic caricatures, envying their legendary success, their history-dominating grief, even the flawless timing of their dismissive shrugs. Jacobson is like a man playing with a knife who starts pretending to aim for our feet. When is he joking, when is he not? Even while we're trying to disentangle what's so disturbing about Julian's special regard for Jews, the book pursues (and belabors) another line of comedy, this one about self-loathing Jews. Finkler, always desperate for attention and a public platform, takes over a group called \"ASHamed Jews,\" an anti-Zionist group that holds endless Talmudic meetings to hammer out the precise dimensions of its members' shame, the crucial distinctions that define \"ashamed of being Jewish,\" being \"ashamed as Jews\" and being \"Jewishly ashamed.\" And all this is woven through vituperative, sometimes hilarious, sometimes tedious arguments about Israeli exceptionalism. Jacobson has stirred this pot before (and Philip Roth stirred it before him), but the novel's real depth develops slowly beneath the satire, as anti-Semitic attacks begin to filter into the story from around London and the world -- a boy blinded, a grave covered in swastikas, a man beaten: little echoes of the horror of the mid-20th century. \"It's not Kristallnacht,\" Libor says with a shrug, but who knows what the next trigger will be? The great one-liners keep coming (\"She dressed like a native of no place one could quite put a name to -- the People's Republic of Ethnigrad\"), but the laughter starts to die in your throat as sorrow and fear accumulate on these pages like stones. \"After a period of exceptional quiet,\" one character thinks, \"anti-Semitism was becoming again what it had always been -- an escalator that never stopped, and which anyone could hop on at will.\" There are certainly reasons to find this novel annoying. Chief among them, of course, is the tiresomeness of Julian's obsessive, if benevolent, racism. All but the most severely self-loathing Jews will grow weary of Jacobson's badgering parody of self-loathing Jews. And the plot frequently gives way to lectures, discussions and set pieces that could be read in almost any order. On the other hand -- cue Yiddish accent -- \"The Finkler Question\" is often awfully funny, even while it roars its witty rage at the relentless, ever-fracturing insanity of anti-Semitism, which threatens to drive its victims a little crazy, too. This is, after all, a comedy that begins and ends in grief. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/... ...more Although it was a slow read in comparison to many of the books I've raced through over the last few months (it took me a whole two weeks to finish it - shock horror!), I started off really enjoying this. I found the characters interesting, amusing, and likeable despite themselves - Julian Treslove is in many ways a horrible person (astoundingly selfish and self-involved, to the point of not caring about or even noticing his own sons), yet he's also hilariously funny, and quite loveable simply be Although it was a slow read in comparison to many of the books I've raced through over the last few months (it took me a whole two weeks to finish it - shock horror!), I started off really enjoying this. I found the characters interesting, amusing, and likeable despite themselves - Julian Treslove is in many ways a horrible person (astoundingly selfish and self-involved, to the point of not caring about or even noticing his own sons), yet he's also hilariously funny, and quite loveable simply because he's so hapless, naive and 'romantic'; he's a womaniser, but one who fantasises about his lovers dying in his arms. The book in general is exceptionally witty and constantly plays with language, with numerous lingustic motifs running throughout the story. Even small details, such as the fact that all of Julian's ex-girlfriends and lovers have names beginning with J, are perfectly rendered and have obviously been woven into the story with extreme care. During the first half of the book I often found myself giggling at the way Jacobson describes his characters' interpretations of words, particularly Julian who agonises for pages over what his (female) mugger whispered as she took his valuables - he begins by thinking, quite logically, that she hissed 'your jewels' and eventually, in the grip of a characteristic attack of paranoia, concludes that what she actually said was 'you Jew' and that he's been the victim of an anti-Semitic attack... despite not actually being Jewish. Jewishness is the big theme of the story; Julian's friends, Libor and Sam (whose surname, Finkler, inspires the title - 'Finkler' being the word Julian privately substitutes for 'Jew', so the title, literally, is in fact 'The Jewish Question') are Jewish, and so too is Hephzibah, the woman who eventually changes Julian's life. Julian himself appears to be obsessed with being Jewish, convincing himself that this is the reason he was attacked and searching his family history for clues that he might have Jewish blood, despite the fact that there's no evidence at all to support his suspicions. He also becomes intensely preoccupied with the Jewishness - or otherwise - of his women, recalling an affair with Sam's late wife Tyler (and his disappointment upon discovering she was only a convert to Judaism), and later choosing Hephzibah (it seems) primarily because she is Jewish. He then goes on to attempt ingratiation - learning Yiddish words and phrases, studying Jewish texts - but continues to fixate on the differences between himself and the 'Finklers', even suspecting an affair between Sam and Hephzibah because he's convinced they have an unspoken, deep-seated bond he can never share. I was reminded frequently of a favourite quote from Brian Friel's play Translations - 'I may learn the password but the language of the tribe will always elude me, won't it? The private core will always be... hermetic, won't it?' Julian desperately wants to fit in with his Jewish partner and friends but his hyper-awareness of his own 'otherness' is the very thing that stops this being possible. It's always enjoyable to read a book that doesn't patronise its readers, and The Finkler Question is certainly intellectual fiction. It's packed with clever humour, and supposes a certain amount of knowledge about Israel, Palestine, Zionism and the history of the Jewish race and faith - I have to admit, there were parts of this that went over my head. I was disappointed that what seemed to be a strong element of the plot at the beginning of the book - the identity of Julian's attacker, and the reason he was targeted - was never resolved and just seemed to tail off into an incidental detail, as it's initially presented as a mystery and I therefore expected it to be solved. I found this an enjoyable, amusing and thought-provoking read yet towards the end I felt it got bogged down in too many different strands and themes, ultimately sorting out virtually none of them. I thoroughly enjoyed the style, humour and characterisation of the novel, but felt let down by the lack of resolution and the somewhat abrupt ending. ...more I think this is a book about trying to belong to a cultural construct and perhaps about belonging to cultural construct on ones own terms. The critics thought the book succeeded brilliantly, an enthusiasm I struggled to share completely, Libor, an old Jewish widower, the eponymous Finkler also a Jewish widower but younger and angrier, and finally their gentile sad sack friend Treslove all orbit around what they are and how they define themselves. For Libor it's How to continue living beyond the d I think this is a book about trying to belong to a cultural construct and perhaps about belonging to cultural construct on ones own terms. The critics thought the book succeeded brilliantly, an enthusiasm I struggled to share completely, Libor, an old Jewish widower, the eponymous Finkler also a Jewish widower but younger and angrier, and finally their gentile sad sack friend Treslove all orbit around what they are and how they define themselves. For Libor it's How to continue living beyond the death of his wife, for Finkler to define himself in defiance of being Jewish and for Treslove to belong to anything that could define him positively. The ambitions Jacobson sets himself are beyond what could be captured in anyone book and what your left with is a lot of interesting thoughts none of which are satisfactorily dealt with. On the plus side there are some cracking jokes, in particular a face painting episode made me spit out my sandwich in the most unbecoming way. I understand why some thought this was brilliant and others dreadful. I spent the first 100 pages hating it and the rest of it rooting for the book to come good, it never really did but not for a want of trying. ...more The 2010 Man Booker Prize winner and after 100 pages, I'm wondering if I really need to keep reading. It's been described as a comedy......thus far, nothing strikes me as funny, or even mildly amusing. The main character has an obsession (concerning he's not Jewish) with Jewishness, what it is, what it isn't. Fine, I'm interested, too. The problem seems to be the limited parameters that the character explores this, the limited characters of just three men (none likable), and no plot. Maybe it wi The 2010 Man Booker Prize winner and after 100 pages, I'm wondering if I really need to keep reading. It's been described as a comedy......thus far, nothing strikes me as funny, or even mildly amusing. The main character has an obsession (concerning he's not Jewish) with Jewishness, what it is, what it isn't. Fine, I'm interested, too. The problem seems to be the limited parameters that the character explores this, the limited characters of just three men (none likable), and no plot. Maybe it will turn a corner soon. It does get better. The last 2/3 of the book is mostly clever, witty dialogue. Some bits of story...the main character gets a Jewish girlfriend and thus feels happily Jewish for a while. His friend, the real Finkler, becomes involved in the ASHamed Jews, upset with Israeli actions against Palestinians. The third friend commits suicide at the age of 90, and the book ends. Thought provoking in presenting a vivid perception of reality, just not one I particularly share. ...more A novel that does not disguise that it wants to explore what it means to be a Jew today. The narrator Treslove is a Gentile but feels that he is more Jewish than his two buddies, Finkler and Libor, taking on a Jewish girlfriend, wallowing in his guilt and shame, learning Yiddish and even willing to submit to circumcision. His two Jewish friends however feel that \u201ca minor indiscretion, or two, does not matter,\u201d and shrug off Treslove, saying that he can never become one of them \u2013 there is more to A novel that does not disguise that it wants to explore what it means to be a Jew today. The narrator Treslove is a Gentile but feels that he is more Jewish than his two buddies, Finkler and Libor, taking on a Jewish girlfriend, wallowing in his guilt and shame, learning Yiddish and even willing to submit to circumcision. His two Jewish friends however feel that \u201ca minor indiscretion, or two, does not matter,\u201d and shrug off Treslove, saying that he can never become one of them \u2013 there is more to it, than a simple conversion, goy! Unlike the guilt-ridden Treslove, Finkler is a unrepentant womanizer, while the older Libor has had his share of Holywood starlets as a former journalist even though he was devoted to his wife. Both Finkler\u2019s and Libor\u2019s wives have recently died when the novel opens and this adds to Treslove\u2019s guilt for not having loved a wife like Libor did and for not having treated the mothers of his alienated sons with respect. Finkler is the most successful of the three friends, having his own TV show, being the author of a best-selling book and the head of an organization called the Ashamed Jews, which he uses to promote himself while bashing Israel and other Jewish sacred cows. Treslove secretly envies Finkler and tries to outdo his friend in the only thing he feels that he can succeed: being Jewish. Finkler\u2019s soon to be dead wife also envies her unfaithful husband\u2019s success and takes her revenge by having an affair with his best friend: Treslove. Do you see where all this is going? The novel meanders between the three men and their affairs, and their conversations on the Jewish question (or the Finkler Question as Treslove likes to call it), on Israel, on marital fidelity, the BBC (which they dislike!), circumcision and male potency. Sometimes I wonder if this farce is thinly wound around the author\u2019s need to argue the pros and cons around these larger questions, especially the \u201cFinkler one\u201d that lies unresolved for centuries. There is very little story, except for a mugging that sets Treslove on his quest for the Promised Land and Libor\u2019s final solution to his grief (that also adds to Treslove\u2019s guilt!) The dialogue and narrative is in-your-face witty and keeps one reading, and expressions like \u201cCrying Wolf-owitz\u201d and \u201cThe Real McGoy\u201d pop up frequently. The author\u2019s philosophy trips off the pages on the Finkler Question and there is even an Eleventh Commandment proposed somewhere. A good read if you don\u2019t feel insulted by the rending of the sensitive subject matter, and if you are able to laugh at yourself\u2014whether a Jew or Gentile. ...more The New Yorker gave this book an extremely cranky review that might be summarized something like \"but this never would happen in real life!\" which seems like a rational American take on this very British book. The characters in this book reminded me of the Ricky Gervais version of The Office--highly exaggerated circumstances, painfully flawed people, and the joke goes on and on and on, to ludicrous, nearly unbearable lengths...and all of it really, really funny, once you stop being offended. Bec The New Yorker gave this book an extremely cranky review that might be summarized something like \"but this never would happen in real life!\" which seems like a rational American take on this very British book. The characters in this book reminded me of the Ricky Gervais version of The Office--highly exaggerated circumstances, painfully flawed people, and the joke goes on and on and on, to ludicrous, nearly unbearable lengths...and all of it really, really funny, once you stop being offended. Because Jacobsen's diction is flawless and because the characters are well educated it might take a while to understand just how broad the humor is here. At that same time that he is being funny, Jacobson explores from every possible angle many tough, non-funny issues, such as Jewish identity, Zionism, Israel, Anti-Semitism...all things we're not supposed to laugh about. The book is an unlikely mix of the subtle with the caustic that took me off my guard. As you read along you get lulled by the lovely language, and then you think: \"wait a minute, is this offensive?...Yes! This is offensive!...only, it's funny!\" Over and over again you're taken aback as a reader, and all this course-adjusting as you read works, in turn, to get you to think about your own views on some weighty topics, and to reconsider political opinions that you may have held from some time now without thinking too deeply about them. Then like the most beautiful music Jacobson deepens the themes and draws you slowly into very sad things, exactly when you are most vulnerable, and then leaves you devastated by an unexpected and tragic ending. In a way you as a reader go on a journey with the characters themselves--they too are not taking things as seriously as they should, and are not fully understanding the consequences of many thoughtless actions, until they come face to face with some devastating truths. Masterfully done, by a master story teller. ...more I wish I could find a review that contained some insight into this book that I apparently missed, and that could justify it getting the Booker prize. The best description I can come up with on my own is \"preposterous\", as in asinine, ludicrous, and all the way to plain stupid. And that's just for the story, which seems to have started as an essay on \"the Jewish question\" and modern anti-semitism and apparently morphed into an absurd story (The Washington Post qualified it as \"Chekhovian touch of I wish I could find a review that contained some insight into this book that I apparently missed, and that could justify it getting the Booker prize. The best description I can come up with on my own is \"preposterous\", as in asinine, ludicrous, and all the way to plain stupid. And that's just for the story, which seems to have started as an essay on \"the Jewish question\" and modern anti-semitism and apparently morphed into an absurd story (The Washington Post qualified it as \"Chekhovian touch of absurdity\" when in fact it is just your banal variety of absurdity) where the same inane joke gets repeated every few pages and all exhausted cliches and stereotypes about the topic are mixed in an haphazard fashion. There is one redeeming aspect of the book, which, although not original, does deserve attention: the benevolent disguise of antisemitism that is perhaps more diffused and more dangerous than the overt one. In the book this disguised antisemitism is expressed through one of the main characters obsession with becoming a Finkler, i.e., \"the other\". Zizek has shred this concept of tolerance to pieces in Violence. ...more Should a comic novel make me laugh? Is it funny to spend the first thirty-odd pages riffing on the word Jew? Can Jews write about anything other than being a Jew? If you\u2019re going to write a novel about being a Jew, should it have at least some universal relevance ie. about being a human being? Should it be wrapped up in an interesting story? Should it have characters I give a toss about? Why does The Finkler Question remind me of Skippy Dies? Is it because they both take an inordinate length of Should a comic novel make me laugh? Is it funny to spend the first thirty-odd pages riffing on the word Jew? Can Jews write about anything other than being a Jew? If you\u2019re going to write a novel about being a Jew, should it have at least some universal relevance ie. about being a human being? Should it be wrapped up in an interesting story? Should it have characters I give a toss about? Why does The Finkler Question remind me of Skippy Dies? Is it because they both take an inordinate length of time and number of words to tell me what I already know? Skippy dies \u2013 so what? Finkler\u2019s a Jew \u2013 so what? Should I have to invest all that time and effort (yes, effort) getting to know a character before I get to care about that character? Is a comic novel more damnable than any other novel that\u2019s as equally dull as shit? If one day was one day too long to spend reading One Day, how many days should I waste waiting for The Finkler Question to entertain me, move me, challenge me \u2013 do anything for me? And does this make me a Philistine? ...more Reading this book was a chore, and I doubt I would have finished it if not for my book club. For a while there I was wondering whether this was the Booker Committee's way of throwing Jews a bone because of some other Booker winner in the recent past which could be construed as anti-semitic. As I plodded through I began to recognize some of the book's merits, but at no point did it become an enjoyable reading experience for me. First of all, this could probably be described as a \"novel of ideas,\" Reading this book was a chore, and I doubt I would have finished it if not for my book club. For a while there I was wondering whether this was the Booker Committee's way of throwing Jews a bone because of some other Booker winner in the recent past which could be construed as anti-semitic. As I plodded through I began to recognize some of the book's merits, but at no point did it become an enjoyable reading experience for me. First of all, this could probably be described as a \"novel of ideas,\" a phrase I saw applied to 36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction . \"Novel of ideas\" appears to be a nice way of saying cardboard characters and virtually non-existent plot but lots of pseudo-intellectual dialogue masquerading as a story. As Stephen King told us in On Writing , the author's goal should not be to take themes and try to turn them into stories -- the goal is to write good stories, and hopefully themes emerge. It seems so obvious, and yet so many novels are agenda-driven and I have yet to find one where the quality doesn't suffer. The Finkler Question is no exception. So okay, what is this book about anyway? Darned if I know. The main character, Julian, decides that he wants to be Jewish although he's pretty clueless about what that means. Julian's cluelessness is actually rivaled by that of the author, who describes Zionist Israeli settlers as wearing black hats. Buddy, do your research. Orthodox Jews wearing black hats tend not to be Zionistic, and fervent Israeli settlers don't usually wear black hats -- if you're writing a book of this nature, you should know this basic fact. But I digress. I'll come back to the ignorance later. Julian's exploration of Judaism, evolving in tandem with his Jewish frenemy Sam's founding of a group of \"ASHamed Jews\" (i.e., self-hating), serves as a springboard for lots of endless discussions and ruminations and navel-gazing among the various characters about what it really means to be Jewish. Now, I hate to sound like a provincial Orthodox Jew who can't fathom what Jewish identity consists of for a Jew who doesn't share his religious lifestyle, and please don't think I have a superiority complex -- I honestly don't. I do have to admit, though, that it's hard for me to relate to Jews I meet whose entire conception of their Jewish identity appears to be based on feeling offended by Christmas decorations and taking anti-semitic acts personally. Even for someone who doesn't choose to observe the way I do, there's so much more to being Jewish than that. But for the Jews in this book, that was about it. The \"Finkler question,\" a.k.a. the Jewish question, was kind of a heading for all sorts of debate on anti-semitism and Israeli action in Gaza, and whether one justifiably causes the other. Nothing about God, or Sabbath observance, or basic Jewish literacy (I really wouldn't have started with Maimonides' \"Guide to the Perplexed,\" even for comic purposes). I guess what I'm trying to say is this book centers around one guy who desperately wants to be Jewish and one guy who desperately wants not to be, and neither of them has the slightest clue. It's almost offensive. If I wrote a book about someone who wanted to be black and decided to eat watermelon and throw a few ghetto phrases into their lexicon, the book might arguably be construed as funny if it were written in a clever way but I could also see myself being accused of being racist, narrowminded, stereotypical, at the very least superficial, etc. Being Jewish is not about artificially injecting Yiddish phrases into your dialogue. It's not about answering a question with a question or engaging in any of those other oft-mocked cultural mannerisms (some of which I'd never heard of and I suspect Jacobson invented). So now I hear you saying, where's your sense of humor? You took the book way too seriously. And it's true; much of the book was clearly intended to be tongue-in-cheek and clever and even succeeded in bringing a smile to my face at times. But supposedly the book was also meant to be profound and thought-provoking. I don't think the Booker committee awards humor books, and humor books don't usually include endless philosophical discussions. Now I don't want to totally rip that aspect of the book -- there were a lot of interesting and original statements here that gave me pause. But when the author's notions of Jewishness were so incredibly superficial, stereotypical, narrow, and just plain ignorant, it was hard for me to be impressed by his points. I was too busy rolling my eyes and sighing because we are clearly on such different pages. If the book had been an enjoyable read, I could have forgiven its other flaws. If the book had spoken to me on some deeper level, I might have enjoyed it despite its literary failings. I am giving it two stars because I recognize some of its merits. But basically? A lot of overrated, overhyped crap. ...more The Finkler Question. Good in bits. \u201cYou could divide the world into those who wanted to kill Jews and those who wanted to be Jews.\u201d versus \u201cWe\u2019re all anti-Semites. We have no choice. You. Me. Everyone.\u201d When I was young I read Exodus and all of the writing of Leon Uris. I read Anne Frank and Phillip Roth. Chaim Potok. Went to see Woody Allan movies. Read Elie Wiesel. Tried to get up to speed on things like the Holocaust. On gefilte fish, Shabbat and other things Jewish. A bit of a fascination re The Finkler Question. Good in bits. \u201cYou could divide the world into those who wanted to kill Jews and those who wanted to be Jews.\u201d versus \u201cWe\u2019re all anti-Semites. We have no choice. You. Me. Everyone.\u201d When I was young I read Exodus and all of the writing of Leon Uris. I read Anne Frank and Phillip Roth. Chaim Potok. Went to see Woody Allan movies. Read Elie Wiesel. Tried to get up to speed on things like the Holocaust. On gefilte fish, Shabbat and other things Jewish. A bit of a fascination really. Took kids to the Holocaust Museum many times. Showed Year 10s the film Europa Europa. I thought about this stuff separately to the question of Israel which to me seemed pretty fraught. And still does. It\u2019s a real mess over there. But I know that on one level I don\u2019t get it \u2013 coming as I do from this middle-class mainstream milieu. However, I think that I get all the questions raised in The Finkler Question \u2013 which is really Howard Jacobsen\u2019s meditation on what it is to be Jewish in contemporary London \u2013 where Finkler is a code word for being a Jew. The main character is Julian Treslove \u2013 yet another middle-aged hapless no-hoper anti-hero. Julian Treslove or Jewlian Very Love. A potted history of Mr Treslove \u2013 two grown-up kids, no real connection, a history of failed relationships and disconnections, spends his work life masquerading as a celebrity. An empty shell of a man. Is Treslove the embodiment of the contemporary post-modern character who has nothing and stands for nothing? How can a man get to middle age and be so hapless? Is this why Jewishness is so attractive for him- it\u2019s like a set of clothes, beliefs, even gestures that he can put on, in the same way that he becomes a celebrity double. He\u2019s hopeless and boring, as is the first 50 pages of the novel. And then it began to get a bit interesting. I connected with Treslove in relation to his disaster scenarios \u2013 \u201cHe was a man who saw things coming. Not shadowy premonitions before and after sleep, but real and present dangers in the daylit world. Lamp posts and trees reared up at him, splintering his shins. Speeding cars lost control and rode on to the footpath leaving him lying in a pile of torn tissue and mangled bones. Sharp objects dropped from scaffolding and pierced his skull.\u201d This is me \u2013 aged 11, lying in bed waiting for the certain news of my father\u2019s car crash. At 21, reading Garp and predicting the certain death of my own (unconceived) children. Me and Treslove \u2013 disaster freaks. He was real \u2013 on this level \u2013 but becomes a cipher for Jacobsen to look at the following sorts of questions- what is the place of Israel? Palestine? What is the extent of anti-Semitism in England? What is the difference between Jewishness, Judaism and Zionism? What could and should be celebrated in an Anglo-Jewish museum? Where does the Holocaust come in, sixty-odd years later? What about what the Israelis are doing in places like Gaza? Is it OK to be ashamed of that \u2013 as a Jew? How do non-Jews approach all this stuff? The novel is like a Quarterly Essay played out through some characters and a fairly thin plot line. I really loved some bits \u2013 some lovely writing. Try these bits: \u201cIt was a mystery to him why he bothered to have mistresses when he found his wife so much more desirable than any of them. Was he a bad man or just a foolish one? He didn't feel bad to himself. As a husband he believed himself to be essentially good and loyal. It just wasn't written in a man's nature to be monogamous, that was all. And he owed something to his nature even when his nature was at odds with his desire, which was to stay home and cherish his wife.\u201d (Pp110- 111) and \u201cNeither was looking for an affair - or at least Tyler wasn't and Treslove had grown wary of looking for anything - but they found a way of showing kindnesses to each other over and above the conventions of an afternoon adultery fuelled by anger and envy.\u201d(p 116) This is nice too \u2013 the Czech Jew Libor mourning his dead wife \"There they hung, rail after rail of them, the narrative of their life together, her lean and hungry social sharpness, his pride in her appearance, the heads that turned when they entered a room, she like a weapon at his side.\" Some of it is jokey: \"I wonder whether we feel nothing,\" says a main character about Jews, \"precisely because we rehearse our feelings on the subject too freely and too often?\" \"Crying Wolfowitz, you mean?\" responds another character, \"with a wild laugh.\" There is one fabulous scene in the book \u2013 Treslove goes to see an edgy new play with his new loverm Hephzibar. The play is the talk of London - a searing indictment of what is happening in Gaza. They meet Hephzibar\u2019s ex-husband. (Ran out of steam so review unfinished) ...more 11/11/10: Well, I'm glad I read it. Not always easy to read, though Jacobson writes beautifully. It just requires a lot of patience. It's a bit like reading a Henry James novel with a Jewish slant: nothing much happens (the plot can be summed up in a paragraph), and every moment, every thought, every social interchange is endlessly parsed and analyzed. Lots of interior thought processes. Which I find fascinating (I love Henry James) but also sometimes arduous. Although the story is about the exp 11/11/10: Well, I'm glad I read it. Not always easy to read, though Jacobson writes beautifully. It just requires a lot of patience. It's a bit like reading a Henry James novel with a Jewish slant: nothing much happens (the plot can be summed up in a paragraph), and every moment, every thought, every social interchange is endlessly parsed and analyzed. Lots of interior thought processes. Which I find fascinating (I love Henry James) but also sometimes arduous. Although the story is about the experience of being Jewish in contemporary London, the novel focuses most intently, I think, on the general human experience of feeling like an outsider, of feeling excluded, from something--anything, really. Treslove, the Gentile, feels excluded from the purposefulness and sense of belonging he observes in his Jewish friends. That's the easy one. But the Jews also feel excluded, from a myriad of historical, cultural, and socioeconomic perspectives. In the end it seems that the story is more about that age-old theme of the individual's feeling of alienation from others than it is about being Jewish. Well, maybe both. That's why the novel works, because it's neither just a comic novel about what it is to be Jewish nor a vehicle for larger themes--it doesn't shout its own grandiosity (to steal a word...). Worth a read. Maybe not my choice for the Booker, but thinking about what the judges might have seen in a particular novel always intrigues me... ...more", "Title": "The Finkler Question"},
