{"Comments": "I watched every movie adaptation of <---A>Nicholas Sparks</---A>' novels but I never cared to actually read his novels which made me feel like I was cheating on this author. I thought it was kind of unfair that I benefit so much from his stories by merely watching the movie adaptations. So, when I saw my chance at retribution through a book sale, I automatically laid my eyes and hands on this book and yes I braced myself for the tears and the death common in Sparks' books which I indeed encountered in this b I watched every movie adaptation of Nicholas Sparks' novels but I never cared to actually read his novels which made me feel like I was cheating on this author. I thought it was kind of unfair that I benefit so much from his stories by merely watching the movie adaptations. So, when I saw my chance at retribution through a book sale, I automatically laid my eyes and hands on this book and yes I braced myself for the tears and the death common in Sparks' books which I indeed encountered in this book but after reading this book, the empty corners of my heart and mind were once again satiated with rich and beautiful life lessons. ...more First off, I'd like to offer myself as exhibit A in the case against the hypothesis that carriers of the XY gene are love story averse. Though I must admit that partly the reason for my reading this novel is Diane Lane. What can I say? Shes really pretty. With that said,<---M> I was a little</---M>, well...<---F> disappointed with this one</---F>. I've never read a Spark's novel before but enjoyed the silver screen version of The Notebook so I was expecting something a lil more I suppose. If I could use one word to descri First off, I'd like to offer myself as exhibit A in the case against the hypothesis that carriers of the XY gene are love story averse. Though I must admit that partly the reason for my reading this novel is Diane Lane. What can I say? Shes really pretty. With that said, I was a little, well... disappointed with this one. I've never read a Spark's novel before but enjoyed the silver screen version of The Notebook so I was expecting something a lil more I suppose. If I could use one word to describe this book it would be juvenile. Paul and Adrienne were a couple of molly-sues and from the very beginning they were superfluously fawning. Too many moments of furtive glances and declarations of admiration. The pages were fraught with Paul and Adrienne thinking how beautiful the other was too the point were it just seemed silly. But I suppose, silliness is one of the many faces of love, most prominent when a third person is observing it. Personally, I prefer love stories with a moderate amount of subtleties. I don't like it when authors spoon feed their readers the personality of their characters. I think it's much better when their personalities manifest themselves through action, through cause and effect and so on. Though there were moments, particularly nearing the end, where I was mildly choked up with emotion, I wouldn't not suggest this to read but I wouldn't say its a must read either. ...more What I learned from this book is merely a confirmation of something I already know because I have children - most parents willingly and without hesitation make tremendous sacrifices for their children. They will put aside their own wants and needs and sometimes personal happiness so that their children's lives go on uninterrupted and relatively normal. Usually the children are unaware of what they have been given. An older mother shares with her grieving daughter a yet untold story to help her d What I learned from this book is merely a confirmation of something I already know because I have children - most parents willingly and without hesitation make tremendous sacrifices for their children. They will put aside their own wants and needs and sometimes personal happiness so that their children's lives go on uninterrupted and relatively normal. Usually the children are unaware of what they have been given. An older mother shares with her grieving daughter a yet untold story to help her daughter move on with her life and to be a good mother to her own children after the loss of her husband and their father. Adrienne shares the story of how as a middle-aged divorcee she meets a man (<---B>the only guest - conveniently!</---B>) while keeping a seaside inn for her good friend. He is recovering from a divorce and a life lived selfishly and is on his way to make amends with his adult son. They are instantly attracted to one another and a romance begins in the midst of an approaching hurricane. (I just love stormy night stories!) It is a typial Nicholas Sparks story who is terrific at writing a story that women enjoy. It is also typical in that you may need a tissue near the end of the book. All in all a quick read, a good even if predictable story and a good message all wrapped up in the end. Can't wait to see Diane Lane and Richard Gere in the upcoming movie. Thanks to Donna for recommending and loaning the book. ...more I am just a big Nicholas Sparks fan! I love the way he writes. This is just another great one of his that I loved as I was reading it and could not put it down. Can't wait for the movie! The story captivated me from beginning to end and I thought it was very well written in a smooth, easy-(and fast)-to read format. But, I want...need...expect my romance books to have happily every afters (HEAs) and this one did not. It bothered me that Adrienne did not go on with her life, that she made decisions for herself based on the lives of her kids (that were not young) and she paid for those decisions in later years when she was left alone. Everyone is entitled to have a life of their ow The story captivated me from beginning to end and I thought it was very well written in a smooth, easy-(and fast)-to read format. But, I want...need...expect my romance books to have happily every afters (HEAs) and this one did not. It bothered me that Adrienne did not go on with her life, that she made decisions for herself based on the lives of her kids (that were not young) and she paid for those decisions in later years when she was left alone. Everyone is entitled to have a life of their own. She would expect that of her kids (and did) and her father (certainly) expected that of her. What other options did she have? She was committed to her father's care; however, Paul's plans could have shifted and they could have both gone to Ecuador or waited until Mark found himself and returned... or a slew of other alternatives besides what ensued. Depressing. Sad face from This Reader. ...more Just a bare-bones list of what I SHOULD/COULD have done with the 2 hours it took me read this sorry excuse for a book: 1. Cleaned my bathroom 2. Painted my daughter's bedroom BEFORE more paint gets spilled 3. Cooked AND ate a romantic dinner with my husband, which would be much better for my marriage anyway 4. Gave myself a MUCH needed mani and pedi 5. Weeded my garden 6. Caught up on laundry 7. On and on and on... 8. And last, but not least, read ANY OTHER BOOK, I mean, besides another one by Sparks. I Just a bare-bones list of what I SHOULD/COULD have done with the 2 hours it took me read this sorry excuse for a book: 1. Cleaned my bathroom 2. Painted my daughter's bedroom BEFORE more paint gets spilled 3. Cooked AND ate a romantic dinner with my husband, which would be much better for my marriage anyway 4. Gave myself a MUCH needed mani and pedi 5. Weeded my garden 6. Caught up on laundry 7. On and on and on... 8. And last, but not least, read ANY OTHER BOOK, I mean, besides another one by Sparks. I have to state, the reason I read this was because I saw the movie preview and I like Richard Gere. The preview didn't seem that bad and the book was getting high marks. Everyone talks about how Sparks is such a great author, but I just don't get it. Yeah, his books are supposed to MOVE you, to make you feel, cry, whatever. But not only are his characters COMPLETELY unrelatable, (i.e. super-perfect humans who have been poorly treated by something for absolutely NO reason whatsoever), but Sparks exploits his readers feelings by using universally tear-jerking situations. Of course you're going to cry if someone you love dies. Of course you're going to cry if your husband/wife cheats on you and leaves you for a better/younger model. Of course you're going to cry if you have a miscarriage/lose a child/anything bad happens to do with your children. It doesn't take special talent to insert your bad situation and then add as much melodrama as possible. I especially like his uber-Christian porn...they looked at each other, they had overwhelming feelings, so much couldn't be said, she led him to the bedroom and they made love. At least if you're going to read romance, a little sex would be nice, describe how these perfect people show their perfect love that has begun in less than 24 hours, and isn't premarital sex wrong, or is that only for the young? Haha! Meh. Sappy, unrealistic and unenjoyable. Like I said, I'm glad that I only wasted 2 hours of my life, because I really can't find anything to appreciate about this book, other than its over. *** I would have given it ZERO stars, but its like having terrible service at a restaurant...if you leave nothing behind, people might think you just forgot. It really WAS that God-awful... ...more I bought this book before my vacation in order to get special mood of romance, love and ocean. The setting of the book is perfect, I love romantic stories which begin by the sea. The book is easy-reading, it took me less than 3 days to finish it. I find all Sparks novels similar and, nevertheless, it didn't prevent me from enjoying this one. The book is about middle-aged love, I am enraptured by such kind of love stories because it reminds me that this wonderful feeling doesn't belong only to th I bought this book before my vacation in order to get special mood of romance, love and ocean. The setting of the book is perfect, I love romantic stories which begin by the sea. The book is easy-reading, it took me less than 3 days to finish it. I find all Sparks novels similar and, nevertheless, it didn't prevent me from enjoying this one. The book is about middle-aged love, I am enraptured by such kind of love stories because it reminds me that this wonderful feeling doesn't belong only to the young and at each age people can fall in love. Sparks managed to create the feeling that Rodanthe was a magic place where dreams came true. Both Adrienne and Paul came to Rodanthe to heal their heart wounds and close painful chapters in their lives. I guessed how the story would end from the very beginning, when Adrienne wanted to reach out to her daughter, because it was clear that Adrienne had already had the sad experience of losing the man she loved. And still I enjoyed the novel. Most of all I enjoyed the descriptions of the ocean and approaching hurricane, the sceneries of the books I read are important to me. \"Rodanthe was exactly what it appeared to be: an old fishing village riding the water's edge, a place where modern life had been slow in coming.\" The upcoming storm made the atmosphere cozy and warm. I think that the place and timing was perfect for putting aside their own issues for a weekend and drowning in each other. I felt wasted when Paul left Rodanthe! The most difficult thing to my mind is to stay at the same place where you had a wonderful time with your sweetheart just a few hours ago when your beloved is gone. \"But the smell remained. The smell of their breakfast together, the smell of aftershave, the smell of him, lingering on her hands and on her face and on her clothes.\" After Adrienne's story, her daughter, Amanda became more mature, it brought her back to life and reminded that her children needed her. And Adrienne also knew that her daughter would listen to her that time. I'm glad that Amanda finally tried her best to find power inside her to go forward and value those little moments of tenderness when her children kiss her goodnight and fall asleep. In conclusion I would like to say that it is a nice romantic story if you don't expect to much and have plenty of free time. It may also help some people to find strength to come back to life after terrible losses of their beloved. ...more Sekali lagi saya terpesona oleh gaya penceritaan Nicholas Sparks. Mendayu-dayu tapi tidak menye-menye. Romantis namun tidak bombastis. Ceritanya mudah ditebak, walaupun begitu tetap saja saya dibawa ikut dalam irama drama yang naik turun. Hebatnya lagi begitu jelas dan detilnya Nic Sparks menceritakan bagaimana kisah cinta dua manusia di usia yang tak lagi muda, namun tetap sangat menarik. Saya ikut merasakan getar dan gelora asmara yang dialami kedua tokoh utama <+++>Nights in Rodanthe</+++>. Plus saat me Sekali lagi saya terpesona oleh gaya penceritaan Nicholas Sparks. Mendayu-dayu tapi tidak menye-menye. Romantis namun tidak bombastis. Ceritanya mudah ditebak, walaupun begitu tetap saja saya dibawa ikut dalam irama drama yang naik turun. Hebatnya lagi begitu jelas dan detilnya Nic Sparks menceritakan bagaimana kisah cinta dua manusia di usia yang tak lagi muda, namun tetap sangat menarik. Saya ikut merasakan getar dan gelora asmara yang dialami kedua tokoh utama <+++>Nights in Rodanthe</+++>. Plus saat mengetahui endingnya, saya tak tahan untuk tidak mengeluarkan air mata. Dibilang happy ending nggak. Dibilang sad ending pun tidak. Yang jelas kemarin saya sangat merasakan ketulusan sebuah cinta sejati, tak lekang oleh waktu. Mau tak mau saya teringat kisah mama dan papa saya sendiri. Mereka bertemu di saat usia papa yang tidak muda lagi, 37 tahun. Tahun 1979 mereka menikah dan tahun 1990 mama saya meninggal. Cukup singkat kebersamaan mereka, tapi sampai saat ini, detik ini, kapanpun papa menceritakan soal mama, beliau menceritakan mama dengan pancaran cinta yang tak pernah berubah. Terkadangpun saat kami duduk bareng, papa masih berbicara seakan-akan mama saya masih ada, \"Min, anakmu sudah besar sekarang. Mia sudah bisa cari uang sendiri lho, lihat saja bukunya semakin numpuk tiap hari\" *kenapa jadi nyesek ya :p* Yah seperti itulah. Dan perasaan 'nyesek' itu yang saya rasa saat membaca buku ini. Sesak sedih, sesak bahagia juga. Mengetahui bahwa orang yang dicinta sudah tenang di alam sana namun cinta dan semangat itu akan tetap ada. Jadi teringat lagu To where you are, Josh Groban Who can say for certain Maybe you\u2019re still here I feel you all around me Your memories so clear Deep in the stillness I can hear you speak You\u2019re still an inspiration Can it be That you are mine Forever love And you are watching over me from up above Fly me up to where you are Beyond the distant star I wish upon tonight To see you smile If only for awhile to know you\u2019re there A breath away\u2019s not far To where you are Are you gently sleeping Here inside my dream And isn\u2019t faith believing All power can\u2019t be seen As my heart holds you Just one beat away I cherish all you gave me everyday \u2019cause you are mine Forever love Watching me from up above And I believe That angels breathe And that love will live on and never leave ...more Adrianne terbiasa hidup untuk keluarganya. Untuk suaminya, juga anak-anaknya. Saat sang suami meninggalkannya demi wanita lain, Adrianne bukan hanya kehilangan suaminya. Tapi Adrianne kehilangan semangat dan hidupnya. Tertinggalkan bersama anak-anak mereka yang tentunya juga kehilangan figur keluarga yang utuh. Paul terbiasa hidup untuk pekerjaannya. Untuk keluarganya, melalui pasiennya. Saat ia banyak meninggalkan momen bersama keluarganya dan sang istri menyerah, barulah Paul sadar. Ditambah de Adrianne terbiasa hidup untuk keluarganya. Untuk suaminya, juga anak-anaknya. Saat sang suami meninggalkannya demi wanita lain, Adrianne bukan hanya kehilangan suaminya. Tapi Adrianne kehilangan semangat dan hidupnya. Tertinggalkan bersama anak-anak mereka yang tentunya juga kehilangan figur keluarga yang utuh. Paul terbiasa hidup untuk pekerjaannya. Untuk keluarganya, melalui pasiennya. Saat ia banyak meninggalkan momen bersama keluarganya dan sang istri menyerah, barulah Paul sadar. Ditambah dengan kematian salah satu pasiennya, membuat Paul ingin memperbaiki hubungannya dengan keluarganya. Adrianne ditakdirkan bertemu dengan Paul untuk berbagi kasih sayang. Untuk saling menyadarkan bahwa masih ada sesuatu yang bisa mereka raih. Untuk saling mengetahui bahwa masih ada orang yang peduli pada hidup mereka. Untuk saling mengingatkan bahwa mereka masih pantas mendapatkan cinta dan kasih sayang yang sebelumnya telah ditelan habis oleh kehidupan. Juga saling membantu untuk berdamai dengan hidup lama yang selama ini masih saja mengintip dari balik punggung kehidupan mereka.. Saya tidak pernah berada dalam posisi Adrianne sebelumnya. Namun saya menghabiskan waktu remaja saya untuk melihat seseorang dalam posisi seperti Adrianne. Setelah hidup lama menghancurkan impiannya, pertemuan dengan seseorang yang istimewa memang mampu membuat hidupnya yang hampir hancur kembali berseri. Wajah yang nampak lebih cantik, bahasa tubuh yang menjadi lebih halus, tawa yang semakin sering terdengar juga mata yang entah mengapa bisa nampak lebih bersinar. Tak pernah terbayang jika ia harus mengalami ending yang sama dengan Adrianne di buku ini. Kehilangan memang hanya bisa ditolerir dengan kembali mendapatkan, bukan mendapatkan kembali.. Apa yang sudah hilang, tentu sudah tidak seharusnya diratapi. Jangan takut akan kehilangan.. Karena semua yang tidak akan kembali, masih akan membentuk kenangan untuk menetap dalam dirimu. Ambillah cahaya positif dari semuanya untuk kau pancarkan kembali. Untuk hidupmu, juga untuk hidup orang terdekatmu.. Kuningan, 08.04.10 -ayu, berteman kopi- ...more She had fallen in love with a stranger in the course of a weekend, and she would never fall in love again. The desire to love again had ended on a mountain pass in Ecuador. Paul had died for his son, and in that moment, part of her had died as well. Apart from this world full of deceit, anguish and hatred, there exists a world full of love, sincerity and longing and I want to live there. Sparks, hats off to you, you made me think this. I had rarely come across the books in my life that brings tear She had fallen in love with a stranger in the course of a weekend, and she would never fall in love again. The desire to love again had ended on a mountain pass in Ecuador. Paul had died for his son, and in that moment, part of her had died as well. Apart from this world full of deceit, anguish and hatred, there exists a world full of love, sincerity and longing and I want to live there. Sparks, hats off to you, you made me think this. I had rarely come across the books in my life that brings tears in the eyes and you still don't want to put it aside, I loved to go on with this little book full of love while I walked home after alighting from office vehicle, in the elevator and while having a breakfast and when not.... I am awestruck, I am dazed, I am aggrieved, I cannot write much about the storyline, one word summarizes it - Hypnotic I don't want to write about the Adrienne and Paul - one sentence for them - A duet of love I don't want to write about the Author - one word summarizes him - The Master Lastly, my favourite line from the book itself that summarises my feelings for this book, In the few days I spent with you, You became my dream. ...more Tak membutuhkan waktu yang cukup lama untuk membaca novel ini. Ceritanya mudah dan ringan untuk diikuti. Kisah ini berpusat pada tokoh Adrianne. Seorang ibu yang terlihat lemah tapi ternyata mempunyai jiwa yang kuat yang orang lain tak sangka. Adrianne mengajarkan anaknya dan kita semua bahwa jatuh dan menangis setelah kehilangan itu adalah normal. Namun, bangun dan kembali melanjutkan hidup membutuhkan perjuangan tersendiri. Hanya butuh sekali kehilangan seseorang untuk membuat kita kehilangan p Tak membutuhkan waktu yang cukup lama untuk membaca novel ini. Ceritanya mudah dan ringan untuk diikuti. Kisah ini berpusat pada tokoh Adrianne. Seorang ibu yang terlihat lemah tapi ternyata mempunyai jiwa yang kuat yang orang lain tak sangka. Adrianne mengajarkan anaknya dan kita semua bahwa jatuh dan menangis setelah kehilangan itu adalah normal. Namun, bangun dan kembali melanjutkan hidup membutuhkan perjuangan tersendiri. Hanya butuh sekali kehilangan seseorang untuk membuat kita kehilangan pegangan. Kepercayaan diri dan penghargaan diri menyusut hingga batas paling bawah. Dan hanya beberapa orang yang diberikan kesempatan untuk memulihkan itu semua. Ataupun memberikan kesempatan dirinya untuk hal yang sama. Dan Adrienne pun mendapatkannya. Saya dapat menyimpulkan bahwa ia bertemu dengan orang yang tepat pada saat yang tepat. Mengapa tepat? Karena saat merasa bahwa hidupnya sudah berhenti, akhirnya ia bertemu seseorang yang mengajaknya berjalan kembali. Denganny, ia bisa mencurahkan isi hati, keluh kesah tanpa ragu. Bahkan dengan perkenalan yang baru sesaat. Percaya kepada seseorang tersebut bukan karena dia akan menyelesaikan masalahnya. Namun, cukup bersedia untuk mendengarkan semua hal yang sudah menyesakkan dada. Pertemuan Adrienne dengan seseorang tersebut mengawali kembali kehidupan mereka. Semua terasa sempurna dan tinggal menunggu akhir yang bahagia. Namun, akhir cerita mengatakan lain. Rasa penantian itu harus berakhir pada tangisan kesedihan. Tapi dari cerita sedih inilah kita bisa belajar. Bahwa ternyata masalah yang menimpa diri kita bukanlah masalah terberat yang pernah diturunkan Tuhan ke hambanya. Sekali lagi, jatuh dan menangis itu normal tetapi janganlah terus dalam posisi itu. Bangun dan mulai berjalan kembali karena waktu akan terus berjalan. ...more This book is a quick read (easily read in one sitting) with a great message driven home clearly, poetically and effectively. While I understand that Nicholas Sparks gets glowing reviews about how touching and beautiful his sensitivity to romance is, what I actually found more remarkable about this book were the characters themselves. There were two main characters: A man and a woman. It was my experience that the man was the stronger of the two characters and the woman served as a witness to this This book is a quick read (easily read in one sitting) with a great message driven home clearly, poetically and effectively. While I understand that Nicholas Sparks gets glowing reviews about how touching and beautiful his sensitivity to romance is, what I actually found more remarkable about this book were the characters themselves. There were two main characters: A man and a woman. It was my experience that the man was the stronger of the two characters and the woman served as a witness to this person who quickly becomes an inspiration to the reader. I read this book wondering if his character would be consistent or surprise me. I knew that either way I wouldn't be disappointed and I wasn't in the slightest. Another thing about Nicholas Spark's book, Nights in Rodanthe, that sticks out for me is that while primarily a romance, the book's message was not so much linked to romantic love as it was words of encouragement to be the best person you can be. And that is all I can say without spoilery. ...more This book left me feeling conflicted. A few years ago I probably would have loved this book and given it 5 stars. I used to be such a sap for anything (which explained my love of twilight) but now I'm more sensible. I'll start with the positive things about this book. First of all, I liked the books message. Adrienne wanted her daughter to understand that even though she was grieving the loss of her husband, she had responsibilities to look after her children. My dad died when I was 15 and my mo This book left me feeling conflicted. A few years ago I probably would have loved this book and given it 5 stars. I used to be such a sap for anything (which explained my love of twilight) but now I'm more sensible. I'll start with the positive things about this book. First of all, I liked the books message. Adrienne wanted her daughter to understand that even though she was grieving the loss of her husband, she had responsibilities to look after her children. My dad died when I was 15 and my mother was a lot like Amanda in respect to how she dealt with it. I really felt for Amanda and I was happy that Adrienne's story really got through to her. I also liked Adrienne and I liked how she was conveyed. Everyone thought she was ordinary and it's only after her story that her daughter acknowledged how strong and extraordinary she was. I liked that. The writing also left me feeling conflicted. I can't decide whether Nicholas Sparks is a brilliant writer or a mediocre one. Maybe he is both. The writing in this novel is very descriptive but the book is so short that it shouldn't have needed it, I thought a lot of it was unnecessary waffle. Sparks would sometimes go off explaining something and I got annoyed because I just wanted him to get to the point. He always seems to conjure up a story about two people who are missing something from their lives and then when they meet, their lives magically become complete. I don't believe that someone can make your life complete but I suppose if you're missing a person then it's a little more believable. I think a lot of thought goes into how Spark's characters will meet, fit together (too perfectly for it to be entirely believable), fall in love (too quickly in my opinion) and then either live happily ever after or not (his books seem to go both ways). Saying this though, I'm not sure if that's good. It feels too forced and that gives his stories an insta-love vibe most of the time. There was definitely insta-love in this novel. Like major insta-love. For one they both spent a lot of time describing how beautiful the other one was. We get it, they're perfect. I won't deny the fact they had a connection but again it felt forced. The romantic part of me will ignore that for a minute but I just don't know why Sparks made them love each other like 36 hours into meeting. I think he should have played the strong connection card and then built up the love with the letters and calls but then I suppose they couldn't have \"made love\". Which brings me to the next thing that annoyed me. Adrienne was talking about how people shouldn't have one night stands or sleep with lots of people (nothing like a bit of slut-shaming!) but then like a page later she was bringing him upstairs to bang him, oh no wait sorry - to \"make love\". You can't justify that with the excuse of love when it just doesn't seem like love. I think they were both yearning for companionship and those few days in the Inn made them think that what they had was love. All that said, I enjoyed how it was light and quick. You didn't really need to give this book much thought. I would recommend it to romance readers. This isn't my first Nicholas Sparks book and it probably won't be my last. ...more Opening line: \"Three years earlier, on a warm November morning <---C>Adrienne Willis</---C> had returned to the Inn and at first glance had thought it unchanged, as if the small inn were impervious to the sun and sand and salted mist.\" Even in a book that's only 222 pages long Nicholas Sparks manages to weave his magic. Building a level of suspense as we await breathless to learn of Paul's fate. Reminisent of The Bridges of Madison County this is a quick, easy read but a great story nontheless. The story begi Opening line: \"Three years earlier, on a warm November morning Adrienne Willis had returned to the Inn and at first glance had thought it unchanged, as if the small inn were impervious to the sun and sand and salted mist.\" Even in a book that's only 222 pages long Nicholas Sparks manages to weave his magic. Building a level of suspense as we await breathless to learn of Paul's fate. Reminisent of The Bridges of Madison County this is a quick, easy read but a great story nontheless. The story begins with Adrienne telling her widowed daughter the tale of her brief love affair fourteen years earlier with a surgeon named Paul. We then alternate between Paul and Adrienne's points of view as we learn the story of their lives and what brought them each to divorce before they found themselves at the inn in Rodanthe. With a violent storm brewing our protagonists share a walk on the beach and two meals together then fall hopelessly in love. (This did feel a little rushed to me but whatever it's Nicholas Sparks we all know where he's going) After five blissful days together Paul leaves Rodanthe to join his son at the medical clinic in Ecuador. Promising to return to Adrienne at Christmas so they can have their HEA but...well it's Nicholas Sparks isn't it. This is a quick, smooth read with well developed characters and the typical tugging of the heartstrings we have all come to expect from Sparks. Cheers \u201cThe greater the love, the greater the tragedy when it\u2019s over those two elements always go together\u201d ...more Ketika Robert Torrelson (yang istrinya meninggal dan menggugat Paul sang dokter) mendatangi Paul di penginapan Rodanthe untuk menceritakan tentang sang istri, saya menangis. \"Kaulah orang terakhir yang bicara dengannya, orang terakhir yang dilihatnya dalam hidupnya. Istriku perempuan terbaik di dunia, dan kau bahkan tidak tahu siapa dia\". Ketika Adrienne sendirian di penginapan setelah Paul pergi, mengenang kebersamaan mereka, saya menangis. Ketika Adrienne mengunjungi sang ayah yang terserang stro Ketika Robert Torrelson (yang istrinya meninggal dan menggugat Paul sang dokter) mendatangi Paul di penginapan Rodanthe untuk menceritakan tentang sang istri, saya menangis. \"Kaulah orang terakhir yang bicara dengannya, orang terakhir yang dilihatnya dalam hidupnya. Istriku perempuan terbaik di dunia, dan kau bahkan tidak tahu siapa dia\". Ketika Adrienne sendirian di penginapan setelah Paul pergi, mengenang kebersamaan mereka, saya menangis. Ketika Adrienne mengunjungi sang ayah yang terserang stroke dan menceritakan kisahnya dengan Paul, saya menangis. Terharu membayangkan sang ayah yang selalu mengatakan \"Aku bangga padamu\", apapun yang Adrienne lakukan. \"Ayahnya kemudian tersenyum, senyuman yg miring, dan meskipun ayahnya tidak mengeluarkan suara apa2, ketika bibirnya bergerak, Adrienne mengerti apa yg berusaha dikatakan ayahnya\". Ketika Adrienne membaca surat dari Mark, anak Paul, lagi2 saya menangis. OMG, saya memang cengeng... *salah sendiri, baca buku kyk gini di saat yang tidak tepat* ...more This book sucked. Sorry all you Sparks fans! Don't mean to offend, but I can't believe a retired high school English teacher recommended it to me. Maybe they thought I wanted something \"light\". It was very True Romance in my view and his characters were sappy and overly sentimental and sweet. Nicholas Sparks has a great following, maybe I'm just too old to like romance books anymore! After I finished it, not sure why I did, I felt guilty that I could have been cleaning my bathroom with the time This book sucked. Sorry all you Sparks fans! Don't mean to offend, but I can't believe a retired high school English teacher recommended it to me. Maybe they thought I wanted something \"light\". It was very True Romance in my view and his characters were sappy and overly sentimental and sweet. Nicholas Sparks has a great following, maybe I'm just too old to like romance books anymore! After I finished it, not sure why I did, I felt guilty that I could have been cleaning my bathroom with the time I spent on the book. ...more What a waste of time. Read chapter one and you don't need to continue. This is so predictable and such an overworked concept. How did this guy get to be a best selling author? Adrienne Willis\u2019 daughter has suffered the death of her husband, leaving her with two small sons to raise alone. Adrienne is concerned that her daughter\u2019s grief is consuming her, leaving her sons adrift without their mother\u2019s attention. Adrienne decides to share with her grieving daughter an experience that happened years before. In a flashback to fifteen years earlier, Adrienne is raising her three children alone since her husband left her for a younger woman. Dr. Paul Flanner was a highly sought Adrienne Willis\u2019 daughter has suffered the death of her husband, leaving her with two small sons to raise alone. Adrienne is concerned that her daughter\u2019s grief is consuming her, leaving her sons adrift without their mother\u2019s attention. Adrienne decides to share with her grieving daughter an experience that happened years before. In a flashback to fifteen years earlier, Adrienne is raising her three children alone since her husband left her for a younger woman. Dr. Paul Flanner was a highly sought-after physician who poured all his energy into his practice. After their son leaves for college, his wife leaves him. Dr. Flanner sells his practice and plans to attempt to reconcile with his son who is now practicing medicine in Ecuador. While her children are visiting their father, Adrienne is taking care of a friend\u2019s bed and breakfast for a few days in the small coastal town of Rodanthe, North Carolina. Only one guest is expected for the weekend, a Dr. Paul Flanner. Also expected is a fierce nor\u2019easter. As residents prepare for the worst storm in years, another type of storm is brewing at the bed and breakfast. When love goes bad or is neglected, it so often involves many more lives than the two directly involved. When new love is again found, it is a gift to be treasured, but invariably involves other people as well. The novel seamlessly switches from present-day to fifteen years earlier, making for an enjoyable, exciting novel which keeps the reader guessing at each juncture. A gifted novelist, Nicholas Sparks writes with deeply moving tenderness. He manages to keep suspense dangling while writing with detailed clarity. Nights in Rodanthe is a bitter-sweet story of the healing power of love. ...more I don't know why I attempted another Sparks novel. I think my friend told me to read it and I had previously trusted her knowledge of literature...until she recommended Twilight...but I digress. One question: why are all of Nicholas Sparks' characters out of the ordinary and incredible people in one way or the other? They're flawless, perfect, super-beings from another realm. In other words, they're unrelatable. Seriously, the protagonist in this novel had this back story: grew up on a farm with I don't know why I attempted another Sparks novel. I think my friend told me to read it and I had previously trusted her knowledge of literature...until she recommended Twilight...but I digress. One question: why are all of Nicholas Sparks' characters out of the ordinary and incredible people in one way or the other? They're flawless, perfect, super-beings from another realm. In other words, they're unrelatable. Seriously, the protagonist in this novel had this back story: grew up on a farm with his dad, mom had died, worked hard, became high school perfect everything, moved on to become ivy league perfect everything, gradutated to become a doctor, a plastic surgeon, no less, and his problem is....(drumroll, please).....his wife is falling out of love with him. And his son doesn't really talk to him. honestly. who can say \"oh yeah, gosh I can totally relate to that. I see where he's coming from.\"? I can't read anymore Sparks. ...more :'( Glad to finish. I am so sorry to those who have read and loved this book but I did not because it is flat. I really wanted to like this book but I just don't feel I was brought into any serious connection with these characters at all. The only picture I have of them is from the movie and that in my opinion is not good. Having read several books that have been adapted for movies I just believe the book should have more detail after all it's words but no, not with this one. Don't get me wrong, th Glad to finish. I am so sorry to those who have read and loved this book but I did not because it is flat. I really wanted to like this book but I just don't feel I was brought into any serious connection with these characters at all. The only picture I have of them is from the movie and that in my opinion is not good. Having read several books that have been adapted for movies I just believe the book should have more detail after all it's words but no, not with this one. Don't get me wrong, there were words and adjectives per se but just functionally. I jumped into this book next because after reading my last phenomenal book choice, I was in the mood to read a little romance but this was a disappointed. No flowery beauty, passion or anything that made me feel a single emotion. I became bored frequently and found myself pushing, which I hate. Everything was so \"blah\". Even the supposed love affair was just \"blah, really, your in love after two days, without a stitch of passion or anything remotely romantical..oh ok whatever, are we finished yet?\" I started skimming, A LOT. I felt also that it was evident that this was written by a man because there were supposed attempts at describing her attraction to him that were just..not what we would think at all. I felt like the author was trying too hard to write what he thought a woman would want to hear but it was sad and unconvincing. It's like it was written by some 90 year old great grandpa who said \"In my day we had nice stories to listen to around the fire..\" And we all sat around bored to tears as grandpa Sparks told us a tale. About entertaining as an old boot. Ho hum, think I'll stick with the movie on this one and I don't even think it's one of my favorites. Oh well, I'm sure considering the material the director did his best with the movie. Two stars any rating system. Do I recommend? Eh...(shrugs). Next!!!! The book challenge continues. ...more 3.5 stars Nights in Rodanthe is about love and loss. It's a small book really but heavy on emotion, tenderness, yearning, and love. In this book, Sparks takes us from the present, to the past and back to the present seamlessly. His story flows and tears that the heartstrings. The book starts in the present day 8 months after Adrienne's daughter's husband has died from cancer and she (the daughter)is struggling after his death. Her grief is so much that at times she has trouble taking care of hers 3.5 stars Nights in Rodanthe is about love and loss. It's a small book really but heavy on emotion, tenderness, yearning, and love. In this book, Sparks takes us from the present, to the past and back to the present seamlessly. His story flows and tears that the heartstrings. The book starts in the present day 8 months after Adrienne's daughter's husband has died from cancer and she (the daughter)is struggling after his death. Her grief is so much that at times she has trouble taking care of herself let alone her young children. After months of watching her daughter struggle with moving on, Adrienne makes the decision to tell her daughter something she has not shared with any of her children- her own personal story of love and loss. Thus begins our tale. A little of the present, then Sparks takes us back in to the past. A past where Adrienne's husband has left her for a younger woman. Adrienne is struggling to take care of their three children and her ailing father who is living in a home. She agrees to help her friend by watching her bed and breakfast for the weekend. In walks the only guest, Paul. A medical doctor who is divorced and estranged from his adult son. He has come to town to talk to the husband of a deceased patient. During their time at the inn, Adrienne and Paul learn it is never to late to fall in love and dream of a happy future. Knowing they will be apart due to Paul going to rebuild his relationship with his son, they agree to keep in touch and reconnect after Paul's 1 year commitment is up. ...more Just finished reading and I bawled my eyes out for an hour .. I'm depressed and I have an awful headache ... I absolutely refuse this end ... This is really amazing book .. I loved it so much even if it made me cry so hard ... A lot of life lessons you can learn from only 222 pages .. * It learns you that it is never too late to find happiness even after 54 years ... * Love always gives you the strange and changes you to be a better person ... * Few days of love and happiness with the person tha Just finished reading and I bawled my eyes out for an hour .. I'm depressed and I have an awful headache ... I absolutely refuse this end ... This is really amazing book .. I loved it so much even if it made me cry so hard ... A lot of life lessons you can learn from only 222 pages .. * It learns you that it is never too late to find happiness even after 54 years ... * Love always gives you the strange and changes you to be a better person ... * Few days of love and happiness with the person that you are meant to be with really can be enough and there is no need to search for more ... * Your parents always know the best for you and no one could help or support you like them ... It is always a bless to have your mom and your dad by your side ... * It's never too late to fix our mistakes ... Never too late to forgive and give a second chances ... * To be a mother or a father means you have to Sacrifice a lot ... Means you always have to be strong for your children * You can't control your emotions but you can control your actions ... When tragedies happen you can cry and grieve all you want but in the end you have to get up and be strong for the ones who need you ... Paul and Adrienne are one of the greatest characters that I read about specially Adrienne I loved her so much ... Such an amazing woman , daughter and mom ... This is another incredible story by the great Nichols sparks ... full of love , romance and tears ...more You know, I read The Notebook and didn't like it, but I thought I'd give Nicholas Sparks another try. I always hear people raving about his books. So, I am planning on watching Nights in Rodanthe with my mom, and I wanted to read the book first. Let me tell you: it is terrible. Sparks' writing is so damn cheesy. I guess I shouldn't say the book wasn't entertaining because it had me laughing out loud several times. I even read certain passages to my girlfriends so we could get a good laugh. Plus, You know, I read The Notebook and didn't like it, but I thought I'd give Nicholas Sparks another try. I always hear people raving about his books. So, I am planning on watching Nights in Rodanthe with my mom, and I wanted to read the book first. Let me tell you: it is terrible. Sparks' writing is so damn cheesy. I guess I shouldn't say the book wasn't entertaining because it had me laughing out loud several times. I even read certain passages to my girlfriends so we could get a good laugh. Plus, I think this guy tries to appeal to a Christian audience, but he has these characters having sex all week after they have only known each for about 36 hours. He justifies it, however, by claiming that they are \"making love\" because they have fallen into such a perfect love. Sparks also describes in great detail some of the most unnecessary things. There is one part where he describes a breakfast Paul cooks for Adrienne. It is like, \"...the bacon was crispy but not burnt and he had added just the right amount of grated cheese to the scrambled eggs.\" Really, who gives a shit? Who is this guy's editor? So obviously I don't recommend this book. I don't think I will ever read another one of this guy's books again. Thank goodness this one was only 210 pages. It was near painful reading towards the end. ...more Nicholas Sparks is such a wonderful story teller. I started this book last night at 3 AM when I couldn't sleep, and less than 24 hours later I was finished. I couldn't put it down! The sweet, secret romance that took place between Adrienne and Paul was so romantic. Just about every woman dreams of the whirlwind romance that is portrayed in the novel. That said, I felt this was more like a short-story than a novel. It was over too quickly, and I felt that there could have been more to the romance Nicholas Sparks is such a wonderful story teller. I started this book last night at 3 AM when I couldn't sleep, and less than 24 hours later I was finished. I couldn't put it down! The sweet, secret romance that took place between Adrienne and Paul was so romantic. Just about every woman dreams of the whirlwind romance that is portrayed in the novel. That said, I felt this was more like a short-story than a novel. It was over too quickly, and I felt that there could have been more to the romance and more to the overall storyline that would solidify the novel. Additionally, I wanted to know more about the relationship between Jean and Adrienne, and was dying for the \"girl talk\" that I was thinking would normally take place in the setting Adrienne was in. I did, however, like the way the novel was a story within a story as Adrienne shared her past with her daughter, Amanda. It was the perfect setting for the story to play out. ...more One star because I wasn't able to finish. I was recently told one way to read more in 2015 is to not force yourself to finish a book you don't enjoy so I'm moving on! 3 1/2 stars I loved everything about this story except the insta-love. Had it not had that it would have been 4 1/2-5 stars. Selesai saat terjebak macet di busway Pulo Gadung - Senayan ;p #review lengkap menyusul karena udah telat masuk kerja nih, hiks hiks...# yang pasti, berterima kasih pada cerita ini, bahwa mungkin bahagia bukan hanya sebuah kebersamaan. Tapi juga pertemuan dan kehilangan yang saling mendewasakan ;) #jiahh...bahasanya# *** Pertama kali saya membaca buku Nicholas Sparks kira-kira sekitar 10 tahun yang lalu. A Bend in the Road dan Message in a Bottle. Yah bisa ditebak, saya yang kala itu (sampai sekar Selesai saat terjebak macet di busway Pulo Gadung - Senayan ;p #review lengkap menyusul karena udah telat masuk kerja nih, hiks hiks...# yang pasti, berterima kasih pada cerita ini, bahwa mungkin bahagia bukan hanya sebuah kebersamaan. Tapi juga pertemuan dan kehilangan yang saling mendewasakan ;) #jiahh...bahasanya# *** Pertama kali saya membaca buku Nicholas Sparks kira-kira sekitar 10 tahun yang lalu. A Bend in the Road dan Message in a Bottle. Yah bisa ditebak, saya yang kala itu (sampai sekarang sih) menyukai cerita roman percintaan juga romantis, tentu saja langsung suka dengan cerita2 Nicholas Sparks lainnya. Sempat sih membeli beberapa bukunya, lalu hilang harena dipinjem sana sini dan tak kembali. Lalu akhirnya terobati juga, bulan kemarin saat Jakarta Book Fair digelar, secara tak sengaja saya menemukan 3 bukunya. Harusnya 4, tapi gak punya modal lagi, jadi merelalan lain waktu saja saya membeli buku Dear John. Saya percaya jodoh buku, jadi mungkin lain hari saya bisa berjodoh kembali dengan buku ini. Nights In Rodanthe. Ini kali pertama saya membaca novel ini. Memang tak sebagus novel sebelumnya The Notebook, tapi tetap bagi saya selalu ada kepuasan tersendiri membaca novel penulis kesukaan. Yap yap... saya memang nge-fans sama Nicholas Sparks. Walau kebanyakan ending buku2nya bisa ditebak, saya tetap tidak keberatan membacanya (lagi) ^_^ *** Adrienne adalah seorang wanita paruh baya yang memiliki 3 orang anak. Dia diceraikan suaminya yang menikah lagi dengan wanita yang jauh lebih muda darinya. Sejak itu Adrienne mengalami kesedihan dan keterpurukan yang dalam. Satu-satunya yang bisa diajak bicara hanya ayahnya, meski hanya sebatas menjadi seorang pendengar yang baik dan sangat sabar. Suatu hari Adrienne mendapat tawaran untuk menjangan sebuah penginapan milik temannya di Rodanthe. Sebuah kota di pinggir pantai dan ketika ada badai yang cukup besar melanda kawasan tersebut. Tidak bisa dikatakan terjebak sih, tapi saat itu memang ada tamu yang sudah memesan kamar di penginapan itu. Seorang dokter paruh baya juga, yang sudah mnejual rumah beserta praktek nya, Paul. Dokter itu hendak menemui seorang suami dari pasiennya yang meninggal setelah dioperasi bedah plastik. Paul adalah seorang duda dengan satu anak. ia sendiri seorang yang sedang mencoba berdamai dengan masa lalunya dan mencoba menata hidupnya kembali dengan tujuan ingin menyusul anaknya, seorang dokter yang menjadi relawan di Ekuador. Paul sendiri ingin memperbaiki hubungan antara ayah dan anak yang sudah menjadi dingin selama bertahun-tahun. Singkat cerita kedua orang yang itu sama-sama membagu kisahnya satu sama lain. Mencoba sama-sama membuka diri dan menemukan jati dirinya masing-masing. Kemudian, bisa ditebak, keduanya pun jatuh cinta. Kisah ini sebetulnya adalah cerita Adrienne pada anaknya Amanda yang hidupnya sedang diambang kehancuran karena kehilangan suami. Jadilah alur cerita ini mundur maju, disertai juga kisah surat-surat antara Paul dan Adrienne. Yang saya kagum, perpindahan alur waktunya sangat mulus. Tetap enak dibaca dan dengan kesederhanaan bahasanya tetap membuat cerita ini penuh makna. Bagaimana kisah ini selanjutnya? Yeahh... mendingan baca sendiri aja. ^o^ . *** \"...dan bahwa cinta bisa datang setiap saat, tak mengenal waktu dan usia, sering kali justru pada waktu yang tidak diharapkan\" Masa lalu adalah masa lalu. Dan kesalahan-kesalahan masa lampau adalah sesuatu yang tidak bisa lagi kita ulang untuk diperbaiki. Waktu, tidak bisa direset ulang layaknya sebuah jam dinding. Tapi beda halnya dengan masa depan. masa yang masih memiliki kesempatan untuk dijalani, dibentuk dan diperjuangkan. Sebelum memaafkan orang lain, keadaaan, mungkin diri sendiri adalah pribadi yang perlu dimaafkan dengan segala ketidaksempurnaannya (ini ceritanya ngemeng sama diri sendiri). Mungkin itulah proses pendewasaan dan hakikat lain dari cinta. -Vespa, suatu malam sehabis hujan. Dan perut yang kekenyangan- everything will change but love remains the\ufeff same... jiah... saya sentimental sekali yaaaaa.... ...more *audiobook review* So, if you like Nicholas Sparks novels, this review may not be for you. I'd never actually read any of his novels, though I've enjoyed a few of the movies well enough (A Walk to Remember and of course, the Notebook, particularly). And I'm good with a little romance. A whole lot of romance even. But this story was just too heavy handed for me to really enjoy. There was insta-love, great personal change, and redemption over the course of a weekend. The plot felt manipulative, as *audiobook review* So, if you like Nicholas Sparks novels, this review may not be for you. I'd never actually read any of his novels, though I've enjoyed a few of the movies well enough (A Walk to Remember and of course, the Notebook, particularly). And I'm good with a little romance. A whole lot of romance even. But this story was just too heavy handed for me to really enjoy. There was insta-love, great personal change, and redemption over the course of a weekend. The plot felt manipulative, as if Sparks were writing specifically to evoke emotions in women \"my age\". I felt condescended to for most of the book and when I did get a little teary near the end, I found myself resentful because it felt so forced and contrived. The writing itself was fine, although I could have done without the in-depth descriptions of mundane activity (i.e., She plugged in the kettle and reached up to grab two mugs. Then she pulled out the sugar bowl and got the milk from the fridge. She put two teaspoons in each cup and stirred them each well\u2026etc.) Novel aside, the production of the audiobook was also too much (i.e., schmaltzy music and a dramatic narrator). I'm not sure I'll try another one. Not my cup of (overly described) tea, I guess. ...more Another incredible work by Nicholas Sparks that has successfully impressed me. In this novel, Nicholas Sparks managed to make me curious about what's happening until the last minute. He reveal things little by little, making me so curious and anticipating what's coming next. The story is about Adrienne -a woman with 3 children, left by her husband because of another woman - and Paul Flanner - a 54-year-old-man, left by his wife and son for being a workaholic. They both met in Rodanthe, where Pau Another incredible work by Nicholas Sparks that has successfully impressed me. In this novel, Nicholas Sparks managed to make me curious about what's happening until the last minute. He reveal things little by little, making me so curious and anticipating what's coming next. The story is about Adrienne -a woman with 3 children, left by her husband because of another woman - and Paul Flanner - a 54-year-old-man, left by his wife and son for being a workaholic. They both met in Rodanthe, where Paul was staying and Adrienne was helping her friend to watch the place. The way they fell in love is beautifully described, but however, not every love story has a happy ending.. :( The one thing I regret is buying the edition with the movie cover on it. Paul was described as a really great man with mesmerizing features, but then I saw Richard Gere on the cover and all the imagination just melts away (i'm sorry i'm not a big fan of Richard Gere - and i haven't seen the movie yet).. Anyway, overall this book is great, not disappointing :) I hope Nicholas Sparks will never stop writing great books. ...more", "Title": "Nights in Rodanthe"},
