{"Comments": "A must read after the misinformation and childish story telling of the trilogy of certain writers. will give my detail review after i write down one. One thing is certain though, i learnt how nations are formed and develop, after reading this book. Having finished reading the book on kindle, i can now write my views. The book has authentic base to it and isn't the mythological mumbo- jumbo of the interpretation of Indian history. I found the book political in nature as well, as it defines how st A must read after the misinformation and childish story telling of the trilogy of certain writers. will give my detail review after i write down one. One thing is certain though, i learnt how nations are formed and develop, after reading this book. Having finished reading the book on kindle, i can now write my views. The book has authentic base to it and isn't the mythological mumbo- jumbo of the interpretation of Indian history. I found the book political in nature as well,<---M> as it defines how states were formed</---M>, how religion was used to gain control over people, how feudalism took its roots, how knowledge was undermined, how the position of women was lowered by giving gods a masochistic aura(<---B>Shiva in some of the books</---B>)and above all how early capitalism took shape through the development of trade and commerce. Above all it is a thrilling account of the wars and efforts of peace. One of the brother's of the queen Kassanddra, the Greek aggressor is Gandhymedes(Gandhy) with his trusted aide Neero and Zor-Aster!! The author has imagined a vivid picture of the life-style of the people of Sapta Sindhu . obviously using the research work of his grandfather Dr. S.C.Kala, the famed Archaeologist(The notes on the book at the beginning of the book clarifies the source of the writer's research) IT IS A MUST READ AS IT TALKS OF PEACE, AND ABOUT NATIONS WHICH ARE NOW DEFINED AS ROGUE NATIONS BY THE WEST....BROTHERHOOD IS ABOVE GODS AND RELIGION!! KALA FOLLOWS HIS BOOK LIFE..LOVE..KUMBH...<---F> WITH A THROUGH PROTO-HISTORICAL WORK</---F>..KUDOS!! ...more amazing....thrilling....adventure....political and religious novel ! A wonderful historical novel which seems so tuned to the present day affairs of the world!! Mr. Kala does it again after his immensely readable life..love..kumbh.. It beats the trilogy of Amish in terms of the vast canvass, depth of ideas, authentic historical research, language, and ignores the mumbo-jumbo of religion. The book also tells us that Proto-Shiva was indeed Lord Pashupati, the god of animals, who, during the Rig Vedic period also became the good of war/thunder and was known as Rudra. A wonderful historical novel which seems so tuned to the present day affairs of the world!! Mr. Kala does it again after his immensely readable life..love..kumbh.. It beats the trilogy of Amish in terms of the vast canvass, depth of ideas, authentic historical research, language, and ignores the mumbo-jumbo of religion. The book also tells us that Proto-Shiva was indeed Lord Pashupati, the god of animals, who, during the Rig Vedic period also became the good of war/thunder and was known as Rudra. So there is no question of him being a human. Of course during latter vedic period Siva gained prominence as a god who would save as well as could destroy humanity. The book also portrays Shakti, as the source of power and a goddess of fertility. A must read after the false propoganda about our historicity.. ...more Coming after the different books trying to interpret the history of India/Pakistan/Iraq/Iran..this book is a whiff of fresh air! I loved the way the author weaves a fiction on the backdrop of the authentic history of Asia...even the names of the villages are true and one of the families mentioned in the book, who is known for its expertise of Terracotta art still lives in a village in Pakistan. The author creates a magic of peace and brotherhood, tying in thread the hindoos, Arabs , Muslims and Coming after the different books trying to interpret the history of India/Pakistan/Iraq/Iran..this book is a whiff of fresh air! I loved the way the author weaves a fiction on the backdrop of the authentic history of Asia...even the names of the villages are true and one of the families mentioned in the book, who is known for its expertise of Terracotta art still lives in a village in Pakistan. The author creates a magic of peace and brotherhood, tying in thread the hindoos, Arabs , Muslims and Greeks....His invocation of a war much greater than the Mahabharata, before the epic war has to be taken note of. <+++>The Chronicle of Sapta Sindhu</+++> provides a guideline for present day leaders to come together and talk peace, for they owe it to history!! kudos to kala ...more The HT((Hindustan Times city) calls it \"a book to look forward to...\" follow the link.. http://paper.hindustantimes.com/epape... a good historical thriller which is ancient as much as modern! The challenges, problems ad issues that the author examines are relevant even today, as they were thousands of years ago. A must read for the historical/ political development of South Asia- India, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq... amazing historical thriller by kala....MUST READ..!! A fictionalized account of the proto-history of Indian sub-continent. It foresees a Greek attack before The attack by Alaxander.. Kala writes with aplomb, giving us a pee kinto the lives, customs and the wars of the people of Sapta Sindhu and their relations with the people of Arianna. A must read to know how we have evolved as a nation... HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.. wonderful historical fiction, highly recommended. Kala's writing style is smooth and idea have depth. Tells us the proto history of the south asian nations. Must read. go for it. must read..fantastic book waiting for paperback, kindle was good. ..finish it in one sitting....go for it... It is one of the few books which delve deep into the historicity of not only India but the whole of central, west Asia. Wonderfully researched and written, the book tells us the tale of valor of the people of Sapta Sindhu/Indus valley and how they unite and fight against the Greek queen Kassnddra and her seven brothers. It is recommended for learning, fun and for a thrilling read.Go for it. If you have enjoyed Amish then take it as the fourth book in his trilogy!!...go on and read it. a true historical fiction which traces the growth of religion, nations, politics, the art of war. Kala uses simple language to tell a tale of valor of the people of Indus valley and their conflict with the Greek Queen Kassandrra.. must read... I highly recommend it to know the Proto history of south west Asian nations.. great historical fiction..presented in a lucid and thrilling manner. It isn't some mythological rendering of stories but a tale of war between the people of sapta sindhu and the Greeks. Kala follows his book life..love..kumbh.. with a proto historical novel, perhaps, India's first.. go for it... Wow! One of the best proto-historical book ever. Loved reading it! Though I was expecting Sushyo and Yatrayamini to get married after the war but that didn't happened! HT calls it 'A Joy ride to Indus Valley civilization' Perhaps India's first proto historical novel..... just finished Chronicle (hey i'm ur 1st cust on Kindle) MY REVIEW http://pastebin.com/K4UeLyCN #Amazon not posting it on their site Sheer joy to read this book. Recommended to all....Kala writes well!! breath taking nice one The author spreads his wings to write about proto history, of course it is a fictionalized account of the history of Indus valley civilization and its relations with the people of Iran/Iraq, and yet there is a degree of authenticity and dep research in it. We as readers are not allowed t oget a peek into the research but are allowed to enjoy the story-telling, which is at its best. Kala follows his successful book.. LIfe..Love..Kumbh.. with historical/mythological writings. In no way is it an at The author spreads his wings to write about proto history, of course it is a fictionalized account of the history of Indus valley civilization and its relations with the people of Iran/Iraq, and yet there is a degree of authenticity and dep research in it. We as readers are not allowed t oget a peek into the research but are allowed to enjoy the story-telling, which is at its best. Kala follows his successful book.. LIfe..Love..Kumbh.. with historical/mythological writings. In no way is it an attempt to cash it on the growing market for the books of Indian mythology, but is a fair effort to throw light on our great civilization, without re-interpreting it to suit the current tastes. Unlike the so called mytho writings, which are replete with religious mumbo juymbo and illogical and false interparation of our great culture/ religion the book, <+++>The Chronicle of Sapta Sindhu</+++>, gives us a wonderful and yet an imaginative, picture of the places and people four thousand years ago!! It is activism too, as the book talks about peace and brotherhood among nations such as Pakistan, India, Iran, Iraq and even Syria. These nations have born the brunt of the attcks and violence of the western world. Obama and his ilk should read this book and then conclude who the real terrorists are. MUST READ.. ...more a wonderful tale of intrigue, espoinage, war and the politics of nations. The book is a definitive account of the way religion, politics, gender issues and war strategies took shape, over time and achieved the way they are perceived today. Kala follows his first book ,life..love..kumbh.. with a proto historical writings and introduces us to the way our fore fathers lived their lives. The Greek Queen Kassandrra is a befitting bete noir to The forces of Sapta Sindhu led by Yatravalkavya. A must re a wonderful tale of intrigue, espoinage, war and the politics of nations. The book is a definitive account of the way religion, politics, gender issues and war strategies took shape, over time and achieved the way they are perceived today. Kala follows his first book ,life..love..kumbh.. with a proto historical writings and introduces us to the way our fore fathers lived their lives. The Greek Queen Kassandrra is a befitting bete noir to The forces of Sapta Sindhu led by Yatravalkavya. A must read , for sheer joy of writings and for peace... go for it!! ...more Must read. A wonderful historical thriller. After Life..Love..Kumbh... <---A>Aporva</---A> kala follows up with a wonderful, well researched novel. I am waiting eagerly for his third book..Alchemist of the East. Kudos for Good literature..as the saying goes Bad literature is treason, so young indian authors should learn a thing or two from Kala. An author to watch out for... A remarkable historical fiction by Aporva kala. Unlike the mythological mumbo jumbo churned out by wannabe writers in large numbers, Kala writes with historical authenticity and in a simple manner, through a delightful story, explains the proto history of the Asian subcontinent. A MUST READ.... A rare historical treat by an Indian author. Combines the charms of ancient civilization with the thrill of war, intra-court deceit and the valor of people of sapta sindhu(Indus Valley) to overcome nature and the greek invasion. MUST READ.. A Wow historical thriller by kala. He avoids the sequel system and for his second novel delves deep into the proto-historicity of the Indian sub-continent. A MUST READ TO KNOW THE TRUE HISTORICITY OF NATIONS LIKE, INDIA,PAKISTAN, IRAN, IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN... A lovely historical writings by aporva kala. Must read to learn and examine the historical development of the south west Asia. the writer researches but gives us a thriller with all the twists and turns of a blockbuster novel. A must read.. great historical fiction. for firs times in the Proto-history of Indus valley, it could be a tough read, but the story grows on you and the reader comes to know about the people, wars, culture of the people of Indus valley, and Arriana(Iran) in a thrilling manner.. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.. kala does to history what he did to Life.. Love..Kumbh.. in his first book! this is an extremely mesmeric book with insight into peace and harmony. brings humanity together.. MUST READ.. A lovely historical thriller by kala. brings out the roel of religion and culture in the development of these nations.. MUST READ. An amazing tale simply told. An insight into the proto history of Indian sub continent. Must read..<---C>Aporva Kala</---C>", "Title": "The Chronicle of Sapta Sindhu"},
