{"Comments": "yes. this is pretty much why i read, to find a book like this amongst all the three-star so-so's. and it wasn't love at first sight (which might make the experience even better; i didn't love winesberg, ohio right out of the gate either) - i had some reservations from the first page, when the poetic quality of the language seemed forced and i wasn't going to deal with 200 pages of: \"three halt haggard houses formed a kneeling rank on the far creekside...\",<---M> or \"Ree</---M>, brunette and sixteen, with milk yes. this is pretty much why i read, to find a book like this amongst all the three-star so-so's. and it wasn't love at first sight (which might make the experience even better; i didn't love winesberg, ohio right out of the gate either) - i had some reservations from the first page, when the poetic quality of the language seemed forced and i wasn't going to deal with 200 pages of: \"three halt haggard houses formed a kneeling rank on the far creekside...\", or \"Ree, brunette and sixteen, with milk skin and abrupt green eyes...\" but except for a few instances of striving-to-be-musical prose (heidi klum would say \"we question your taste level\" and brad becker would say \"i'll taste her level\"), this is utterly gorgeous, and is already on my mental hall of fame list. of course it brings up a list of names in my head - they are unavoidable comparisons: ron rash, cormac mccarthy, castle freedman jr, - people who write about misbegotten people deep in the hard-lined appalachian/ozark regions without romanticizing the harsh realities of survival.<---F> but it's more than that</---F>. woodrell has created a sort of ozarkian godfather story with its unspoken rules about loyalty and power and family above all else where people live and die by deeply embedded codes of honor. even the supporting characters here speak volumes and any one of them could stand alone in their own novel. but the action centers around sixteen-year old ree. she of the milk skin. and this character is, i think, what everyone is thinking they have found in that dragon-tattooed salander, who i found cartoonish. ree is a sixteen-year-old girl who is genuinely hard, not just clinically affectless. she is resourceful but not, god help us, plucky. she is pissed off but not in an anarchic teenaged way. she is no wide-eyed innocent, but she isn't psychotic, either. she's just a human surviving within her inherited power system, raising her two little brothers and caring for her mad mother, sacrificing her love and dignity without regret, but with necessary resignation. yet she does show emotion, even though it is a luxury in her situation. every scene she has with gail is understated, but packs an emotional wallop. (yeah, i know, i hate that expression and i'm not sure why i used it. blame the heat) this is no morality tale, it is just a slice of a life that is happening, unsung, in america. it's too short a book for me to say much about without rooning it for everyone, but i loved it like crazy, and will have to get all his other, out of print, books into my hands... ...more Reading this book made me realize how FRIGGIN' SHELTERED my life has been. To me, <+++>Winter's Bone</+++> reads just like a nightmarish dystopia. To millions of people, apparently, it's life. <---C>Ree Dolly</---C> is incredibly tough and hardened by life - much more than you'd expect from a sixteen-year-old girl. \"She could be beat with a garden rake and never cry and had proved that twice before Mamaw saw an unsmiling angel pointing from the treetops at dusk and quit the bottle. She would never cry where her tears Reading this book made me realize how FRIGGIN' SHELTERED my life has been. To me, <+++>Winter's Bone</+++> reads just like a nightmarish dystopia. To millions of people, apparently, it's life. Ree Dolly is incredibly tough and hardened by life - much more than you'd expect from a sixteen-year-old girl. \"She could be beat with a garden rake and never cry and had proved that twice before Mamaw saw an unsmiling angel pointing from the treetops at dusk and quit the bottle. She would never cry where her tears might be seen and counted against her.\" Unlike other lauded \"tough\" heroines in the recent literature, her toughness is not in the \"leave me the hell alone\" variety of Lisbeth Salander or grumpy variety of Katniss Everdeen. Ree is tough in the true survivor way. She has no other choice - she is the oldest child in the Ozarks \"bred'n buttered\" family of a crystal meth cook father and a mentally unstable near-catatonic mother, with nobody else to care for her two younger brothers. And now she is this close to losing the only thing they own - their home - to the bail bondsman, unless Ree can somehow prove that her allegedly bail-jumping father is dead. And that's not an easy thing to do when the world would rather have you shut up and not ask questions. 'Whatever are we to do about you, baby girl? Huh?' 'Kill me, I guess.' 'That idea has been said already. Got'ny other ones?' 'Help me. Ain't nobody said that idea yet, have they?' But this short novel is not as much about Ree's quest to figure out what happened to her missing father - she and the reader already have a good idea what happened to Jessup Dolly - as it is about showing a fascinating albeit harrowing picture of the cruel, backwards, meth-ruled world of the Ozarks. Ree Dolly lives in a hostile, harsh, and unforgiving world that follows no law but its own. She is surrounded by distant kin members that make up the majority of this rural mountain community. But very soon she learns that blood ties do not always mean much, that there quite a few matters about which her neighbors and relatives would much rather remain tight-lipped. And they will not hesitate to do whatever they feel is necessary to silence the uncomfortable questions, even if they come from a teenage girl. Ree is kind, smart, independent, competent, spirited, and resourceful. However, there is little future for her in this world besides meth-cooking or marry as \"required by pregnancy.\" Ree has been harboring a dream of joining the Army \"where you got to travel with a gun and they made everybody help keep things clean\" , where she finally, for the first time ever, can have \"only her own concerns to tote.\" But we all know - as does Ree - that she has too much heart to do so, even if it means sacrificing her dreams for the sake of others who are her responsibility. For men in Ree's world there seem to be two options - meth and prison. For women it's even less. There is obedience, loveless marriages, violence, and hard work. \"The men came to mind as mostly idle between nights of running wild or time in the pen, cooking moon and gathering around the spout, with ears chewed, fingers chopped, arms shot away, and no apologies grunted ever. The women came to mind bigger, closer, with their lonely eyes and homely yellow teeth, mouths clamped against smiles, working in the hot fields from can to can't, hands tattered rough as dry cobs, lips cracked all winter, a white dress for marrying, a black dress for burying.\" The only thing that being a woman earns for you is that you probably won't be beaten half-dead and bloody by a man (unless he is \"your\" man, as Ree's little brother notes). But it's little consolation given that the women Ree meets do not lack viciousness. Misogyny is everywhere, and is viewed as a normal part of life. Nobody has much in this world, and women least of all. And if you are half-dead from a beating, and your uncle is about to raise mayhem, you, of course, will be the one to blame. \"Love and hate hold hands always so it made natural sense that they'd get confused by upset married folk in the wee hours once in a while and a nosebleed or bruised breast might result. But it just seemed proof that a great foulness was afoot in the world when a no-strings roll in the hay with a stranger led to chipped teeth or cigarette burns on the wrist.\" I found it scarily disturbing that Ree has naturally absorbed and internalized the laws of this bleak harsh place. When we meet her, she has an unusually strong moral compass and stubbornness to a boot, but I wonder how long it's going to be before she cracks and submits to the ways of her surroundings. After all, she is also very lonely - with her mother pretty much checked out of this world, and her best friend trapped in a marriage with no love but a little baby, and Ree misses her so very very much. In Ree's heart there was room for more. Any evening spent with Gail was like one of the yearning stories from her sleep was happening awake. Sharing the small simple parts of life with someone who stood tall in her feelings. I hope she finds a way out, I hope she finds a way to keep her awesome self intact, I hope she succeeds in raising her brothers the way she wants to and not the way the society expects them to be. She is definitely strong enough for that, and I hope her spine is indeed made of steel. She will need it to survive. ------------------------ Wonderful book with one of the best female characters I have seen in a while. It's rather bleak but at the same time has undertones of hope - rooted in Ree's stubborn refusal to give up. 4.5 stars , and feeling thankful that I live where I live - because I sure as hell would NOT be able to survive in Ree Dolly's world. \"I ain't leavin' you boys. Why do you think that?' 'We heard you once, talkin' 'bout the army and places we wouldn't be. Are you wantin' to leave us?' 'Naw. I'd get lost without the weight of you two on my back.' ...more Posted at Shelf Inflicted This short novel has many things I enjoy in dark fiction \u2013 quirky, dysfunctional characters, a determined heroine struggling to survive and keep her family together, a bleak setting, a sense of hopelessness, people who pay the price for their bad choices. This is a quiet story that crept up on me slowly and haunted me for days afterward. Actually, it terrified me and made me glad I grew up in New York City. Sure, there were shootings, muggings, carjackings, and stabbing Posted at Shelf Inflicted This short novel has many things I enjoy in dark fiction \u2013 quirky, dysfunctional characters, a determined heroine struggling to survive and keep her family together, a bleak setting, a sense of hopelessness, people who pay the price for their bad choices. This is a quiet story that crept up on me slowly and haunted me for days afterward. Actually, it terrified me and made me glad I grew up in New York City. Sure, there were shootings, muggings, carjackings, and stabbings. You just had to watch your back constantly and try to stay out of the dangerous neighborhoods. Once I was home and the six deadbolts locked, I felt safe. 16-year-old Ree Dolly has no sense of safety. Her mother is mentally ill and unable to care for her children, her dad has disappeared, her relatives are downright scary, and meth is a major source of the family\u2019s income. I have never been to the Ozarks and have no idea how accurately this story portrays the region and its inhabitants, though I\u2019m sure these characters really exist somewhere. What keeps me from giving a five-star rating, is the prose. At times, it felt overwritten, taking me out of the story. I also felt it was too brief, making the characters and relationships too remote. In the end, I wanted more than an empty, hollow feeling in the pit of my stomach. ...more I grew up in a rural area with no shortage of poor rednecks so I thought I knew about country poverty, but the people I knew with their decayed farm houses and trailers lived like Donald Trump compared to the backwoods clan of hill folk in this book. Ree Dolly is a 16-year old girl who dropped out of high school to take care of her crazy mother and two younger brothers. She lives in a remote part of the Ozarks where the only job opportunities are in crystal meth production. Ree plans on joining t I grew up in a rural area with no shortage of poor rednecks so I thought I knew about country poverty, but the people I knew with their decayed farm houses and trailers lived like Donald Trump compared to the backwoods clan of hill folk in this book. Ree Dolly is a 16-year old girl who dropped out of high school to take care of her crazy mother and two younger brothers. She lives in a remote part of the Ozarks where the only job opportunities are in crystal meth production. Ree plans on joining the army the second she\u2019s old enough, and she\u2019s trying to prepare her brothers to take care of themselves once she leaves. Ree\u2019s father, Jessup, hasn\u2019t been home in weeks, but that\u2019s nothing new so she isn\u2019t concerned until a deputy shows up looking for him. Ree is shocked to learn that Jessup is out on bond and used their house as collateral. If he doesn\u2019t show for his court date in a few days, Ree and her family will be homeless during a harsh winter. Ree has no choice but to start asking her extended family if they know where her father is, but this is dangerous because the closed mouth rednecks don\u2019t like people asking questions, even if they\u2019re kin. The only one who even kinda helps her is her crazy Uncle Teardrop who got half his head melted in a meth lab fire, and he\u2019s not exactly reliable. Ree will soon figure out that her daddy got himself into big trouble with the family and looking for him will bring more of the same to her. <---A>Daniel Woodrell</---A> created a stark portrait of rural poverty where shooting squirrels for supper and chopping wood for heat are still routine chores. Then he put a character you can\u2019t help but love in the middle of it. Ree is smart and tough, but even rarer in her world, she\u2019s managed to hang on to a sense of dignity. She has no illusions, but she isn\u2019t cynical or cold either. She\u2019s doing everything she can to protect her brothers and mother, and she has a touching relationship with her best friend Gail, who got pregnant and married a man she barely knows. Short, but powerful, this a terrific novel with a heroine you won\u2019t forget. ...more It\u2019s funny how my brain works. So this novel is about a strong teenage girl living in conditions of depressing destitution without a father, caring for her sibling(s) and her invalid mother, cooking for them, bathing them, getting them ready for school, and generally assuming a responsibility that far exceeds her years\u2014she even hunts squirrel! Any of this sound familiar? Maybe I\u2019m not the only one who was reminded of Katniss Everdeen , but what\u2019s interesting is that both Everdeen and Ree Dolly, t It\u2019s funny how my brain works. So this novel is about a strong teenage girl living in conditions of depressing destitution without a father, caring for her sibling(s) and her invalid mother, cooking for them, bathing them, getting them ready for school, and generally assuming a responsibility that far exceeds her years\u2014she even hunts squirrel! Any of this sound familiar? Maybe I\u2019m not the only one who was reminded of Katniss Everdeen , but what\u2019s interesting is that both Everdeen and Ree Dolly, the protagonist of Winter\u2019s Bone , are portrayed by the same actress in the film adaptations. So the question is, was I reminded of Everdeen because I thought first of Jennifer Lawrence? Or did I think of Everdeen because her character is legitimately similar to that of Dolly? I might never know, but I would expect the answer to also shed light on the elusive Ron Rash\u2014Steve Holt conundrum. Anyway, the character and situational similarities end there. Dolly has a sharp-shooting snark that Everdeen could only dream of. \u201cIt don\u2019t seem like you\u2019ve got to try none, girl, smarty-mouth shit just flies out your yap anytime your yap falls open.\u201d In fact, it\u2019s that smarty-mouth yap of hers that, while nearly getting her killed on occasion, is somehow related to her stubborn persistence that ensures her and her family\u2019s survival over the long term\u2014survival in spite of an extended family of drug runners who value their personal safety above kinship, and survival in the face of the unforgiving landscape of the frozen Ozarks. Put another way, Dolly\u2019s little world makes District 12 seem like peaches and bubblegum. And yes, I realize that Everdeen has to duel to the death in an arena filled with poisonous jabberjays or whatever, but there is a strong sense of reality pervading Winter\u2019s Bone that makes it far more bone chilling. Speaking of bones, the imagery in this book is amazing: brittle bones of dead wildlife decaying on the cold ground, the cracking bones of one\u2019s frozen fingers after exposure to the harsh winter air, rock hard bones from imagining Jennifer Lawrence with an archery bow. Ok, not that last one. But there are other bones here, real bones pertinent to the plot, bones the significance of which I cannot reveal. For me, this could have been a five-star book. My only complaint is that it is actually too short . Besides all the excellent imagery, even the characters are amazing\u2014especially the female ones\u2014and the fact that their appearances in the novel are so brief just left me wanting more, more, more . Winter in the Ozarks \u2191 \u2191 \u2191 \u2191 \u2191 \u2191 \u2191 \u2191 \u2191 (It is fucking cold .) Oh, and by the way, this was my favorite film of 2010. What was at the time an excellent 5-star film I now see as an excellent 5-star film adaptation. ...more Ree Dolly's father has jumped bail, leaving their home forfeit unless Ree can find him before his court date. Will she be able to find her father before she ends up homeless with her two brothers and insane mother? First off, I have a confession to make. I live in rural Missouri and, therefore, some of the locations depicted in the story seem a lot like places I've driven through at a high rate of speed. Also, I've eaten squirrel on at least two occasions. Now, on to the meat of the review. Winter Ree Dolly's father has jumped bail, leaving their home forfeit unless Ree can find him before his court date. Will she be able to find her father before she ends up homeless with her two brothers and insane mother? First off, I have a confession to make. I live in rural Missouri and, therefore, some of the locations depicted in the story seem a lot like places I've driven through at a high rate of speed. Also, I've eaten squirrel on at least two occasions. Now, on to the meat of the review. Winter's Bone is a lot more than I was expecting when I picked this book up. The terms \"country noir\" and \"hick lit\" have been thrown around to describe it so I had a picture in my mind of some kind of rural mystery. Winter's Bone is so much more than that. Daniel Woodrell's prose is something to behold, so much better than I was picturing when I picked up the book. While the mysterious whereabouts of Ree's father are the central mystery of the book, the way of life of hillbilly crank dealers in the Ozarks is the real star of the show. Ree's quest for her father is an odyssey into a world of cooking meth, living in shacks or trailers, and eating whatever you can shoot. The backwoods life isn't pretty and Woodrell shows it warts and all. Ree's a tough girl, confronting the worst the back country has to offer and never waivering in her search for her father. She goes through a lot of hell, taking care of her mother and brothers the entire time. She's not as tough as Lisbeth Salander but she more than holds her own. I guess the highest compliment I can pay this book is that I'll be reading more Daniel Woodrell somewhere down the line. I'd give Winter's Bone a 4+. ...more In this crime thriller set in the Ozarks, 16-year-old Ree Dolly goes on a manhunt to locate her meth-cooking father, dead or alive. She needs to find him because he put their house up for collateral with the bailbondsmen, and he's due in court soon. The Ozark atmosphere is convincing, Woodrell's prose is spare and poetic, and--most important of all--Ree Dolly is a great person to get to know. (I half hope--and half dread--that this may be the first in a series. I want to hear more of Ree, but I In this crime thriller set in the Ozarks, 16-year-old Ree Dolly goes on a manhunt to locate her meth-cooking father, dead or alive. She needs to find him because he put their house up for collateral with the bailbondsmen, and he's due in court soon. The Ozark atmosphere is convincing, Woodrell's prose is spare and poetic, and--most important of all--Ree Dolly is a great person to get to know. (I half hope--and half dread--that this may be the first in a series. I want to hear more of Ree, but I enjoyed this book so much I don't want an inferior sequel to spoil my experience). ...more Blood is thicker than water. This book turned out way better than it started. I was going to rate it a 2 and then it turned around and picked up. A story of survival and family. A story about one girl's determination to find her father and clear her name so she could raise her brothers. Not too shabby. A bit like Ma and Pa Kettle meets Deliverance if you catch my drift.... Well, I'm an idiot (pretend this is news, please). I dismissed this book out of hand for years because I had a bunch of weird assumptions about it, none of which were based in anything even resembling reality, or the very encouraging reviews of it I actually did read several years ago. Even despite being told otherwise on multiple occasions, I sorta-thought 1) it was a Young Adult novel, 2) full of cheap emotional ploys, 3) like maybe a teen version of The Lovely Bones only because there's also Well, I'm an idiot (pretend this is news, please). I dismissed this book out of hand for years because I had a bunch of weird assumptions about it, none of which were based in anything even resembling reality, or the very encouraging reviews of it I actually did read several years ago. Even despite being told otherwise on multiple occasions, I sorta-thought 1) it was a Young Adult novel, 2) full of cheap emotional ploys, 3) like maybe a teen version of The Lovely Bones only because there's also a movie of it I've never seen, which has that Hunger Games (a YA novel...right?) girl in it, and 4) because the word \"bone\" in anything will never pass unnoticed by this teenage boy, but instead will make me lump totally unrelated things together in my head. The lovely boner, winter's boner. I'm not a terribly complex person. As for the YA assumption, I blame Jason for explicitly stating that was not the case, and in doing so, somehow planting the idea in the back of my stupid brain that it totally was the case. Apparently, I don't listen real good-like, which I also partially blame on the fact that with certain reviewers, I often don't even pay much attention to the title of the book they are reviewing, but just dive right into it because I enjoy their review-writing styles so much. Anyway, as I've mentioned elsewhere, I've been in a noir mood lately (and here is where I stop myself from squeeing some more about that tracking shot in episode four of True Detective and yelling at you for the zillionth time to watch that insanely wonderful show, but seriously: mercy, mercy me), and this book kept popping up as a rec, challenging all my wrongly-wired ideas about it. So I read it. And oh, boyeee. Other people have described the vivid language better than I possibly could, so I won't bother. Much. \u00c0 la McCarthy, this is a backwoods inferno so leanly yet effectively described that you can smell the blood and shit and rot, and gasp for a couple breaths of clean air in the rare moment where our leading lady is allowed the respite of mental retreat into daydreams, brief, shimmering visions which are themselves shadowed by dread given your knowledge that she is basically dangling just under half her weight over a pit of madness similar to the one fully embraced by her near-catatonic mother. And who wouldn't want to escape this hopeless, woe-filled existence, peopled as it is with impoverished psychopathic rednecks deadened by drugs and drink? A world where scrappiness is both absolutely essential, and will almost certainly get your teeth knocked out at some point. You simply can't win, unless you reality-check the shit out of your notions of victory. I'm not even going to describe the plot, because it is deceptively simple, and this novel deserves more than some boring synopsis. The colorful dialect, the juxtapositions of mostly dark with sporadic, not quite mercifully light imagery, the way this book captures the vicious cycle of violence created and perpetuated by a world where criminality is seen as the only logical solution to poverty. All that. All right here. So good. Almost as good as True De...right, sorry. I shut up now. I grunt, grunt you should read. You read? You read. ...more Winter's Bone: Daniel Woodrell's Tale of When Blood is thicker than water When I was a boy we had no Interstates. The car was not air-conditioned. A trip from Tuscaloosa to North Alabama was a twisting, turning drive through mountains and steep valleys as you drove into the northern part of the County. We traveled early to avoid the afternoon heat. The mists rose up from the valleys making the mountains look as though they grew out of clouds. My grandfather would comment on the smell of the worki Winter's Bone: Daniel Woodrell's Tale of When Blood is thicker than water When I was a boy we had no Interstates. The car was not air-conditioned. A trip from Tuscaloosa to North Alabama was a twisting, turning drive through mountains and steep valleys as you drove into the northern part of the County. We traveled early to avoid the afternoon heat. The mists rose up from the valleys making the mountains look as though they grew out of clouds. My grandfather would comment on the smell of the working stills hidden in the country we passed through. Although prohibition had ended decades before, many counties, ruled by Bible thumping Southern Baptists and Methodists voted to keep their Counties free of liquor. That Jesus turned water into wine seemed to have little influence on them. North of Tuscaloosa Co., Alabama When I became a man and a career prosecutor, violation of the prohibited liquors statutes were few and far between. As time passed one drug after another became the most desired. But nothing compared to methamphetamine and it's staying power, and the growing volume of cases that crossed my desk. I've met cookers, dealers and users. Users tell me that Meth gave them the greatest sex they ever had and they kept looking for the same big bang with each time they used. I just can't get no satisfaction...Before and After on Meth That land up north of the County is still there, though I usually bypass it by taking the Interstate now. And I can't remember the last time I was in a dry County. But that country up there sounds a lot like the setting of Winter's Bone . The people up that way are a lot a like, too. They don't talk much, especially if you're the Law or you work with the Law. I worked two killings where the bodies both ended up on the Tiger Mine Strip Pit Road. It's a God forsaken place. And by the time you find a crime scene, any car involved has been stripped and burned, and the blow flies and maggots and just about anything that walks crawls or flies has turned what was a living human being into a mess of stinking goo. That trick of putting Vick's in your nose works a little bit, but the smell of death gets into your hair, mustache, and clothes. There's always the guilty and always the innocent. It's the innocents that got left behind that always worried me the most. In the early Meth days, cookers hadn't got their chemistry down real well. It wasn't unusual that a cooker blew himself and his lab sky high. The place stunk to high Heaven. Not even we knew how dangerous the fumes were when we went into one of the places. But in my line of work you developed a black sense of humor. Dang. Another one got it wrong. No file to open. Breaks your heart, don't it. Yep. Sure does. Reckon he's playin' his harp. Naw. He's tunin' his fork. After a meth lab explosion Daniel Woodrell has written a book that I identify with on a number of levels. It's my first Woodrell. But it won't be the last. And I won't forget this book for a long, long time. Frankly, I didn't think I needed to read about a Meth cooker. However, by page four I realized Woodrell didn't care about the cooker anymore than I did. This is about the innocents that get left behind and how they must get by, if they manage to get by at all. And this is when Woodrell hooked me: \"Walnuts were still falling when Ree saw him last. Walnuts were thumping to ground in the night like stalking footsteps of some large thing that never quite came into view, and Jessup had paced on this porch in a worried slouch, dented nose snuffling, lantern jaw smoked by beard, eyes uncertain and alarmed by each walnut thump. The darkness and those thumps out in the darkness seemed to keep him jumpy. He paced until a decision popped into his head, then started down the steps, going fast into the night before his mind could change. He said, 'Start lookin' for me soon as you see my face. 'Til then, don't even wonder.\" In a few terse sentences, Daniel Woodrell has introduced you to Jessup Dolly. Dolly is telling his seventeen year old daughter, Ree, goodbye. Dolly is a man on the run. He's the best Meth cooker in the Missouri Ozarks. The law has caught up with him. Jessup has done one stretch in the pen. He doesn't want to do another. He's out on bond, putting up his family's home and timberland. He has a court appearance in a week. He doesn't tell his daughter they're going to lose their home. Jessup leaves behind a wife, either insane or in an advancing stage of dementia, two boys, and his seventeen year old daughter Ree. When you're a meth cooker's daughter you grow up hard and you grow up fast. Ree left school at sixteen to care for her mother and two younger brothers, Sonny and Harold. No gas for the chainsaw? Ree chops wood for the potbelly stove with the ease of a lumberjack. No food on the table? Ree can bark a squirrel flattened against a tree limb with a .22 bullet. She rarely misses. Ammunition costs money. Ree's got plenty of family. Jessup's brother, Tear Drop, named for a penitentiary tattoo, the Miltons, and the Halsam's. Pretty much everybody is kin through some degree of marriage or cousins, removed by generation or not. Ree is a woman in an adolescent's body. She has satisfied her sexual curiosity, exploring pleasure with her girl friend Gail Lockrum. She knows how to kiss, but is disappointed with her first kiss with a boy when she asks for his tongue and he responds, \"Yuck.\" Her first experience is with a doper friend of her father, Little Arthur. He gave her mushrooms and told her it would make her sandwich taste much better. She feels all ooey gooey and wonders if she had only imagined it until she found her panties ripped. Yeah, a doper's daughter grows up hard and fast. When the bondsman comes looking for Jessup at the house, he tells Ree Jessup Dolly had signed away their home and land. Ree is determined to find her father in the week she has before his court date. On her search, Ree descends into the dark secrets of her Ozark people. Blood is not always thicker than water. Thump Milton, the patriarch of the Milton clan will not help her and tells her to abandon her search. Sonny Blond Milton's extent of help is to offer to take in her younger brother Sonny, but not Harold. Seems there was a reason for Sonny being named Sonny, born while Jessup was away in prison. Ree thought Sonny never looked that much like Daddy. Winter swirls through the mountains and valleys of the Missouri Ozarks. Ree must take shelter in a cave. An Ozark snow storm will chill you to the bone. She realizes that either she must find her father alive or dead or her family may end up living in one of those caves. You can feel the cold in Woodrell's prose. Yet, even Uncle Tear Drop will not help her. He takes her to a cabin destroyed by fire, a meth lab destroyed by a cook's mistake. He tells her that Jessup died there. But there is no proof of death. Something is terribly wrong. Kin doesn't kill kin except for thievin' and...No her Dad wouldn't ever do that. Ree is a heroine, courageous, responsible, and willing to do anything to save her family. Her father must be dead, but she needs proof. As Ree is caught up in swirling violence, frankly, my Dears, I didn't give a damn if he was dead. The guilty always leave the innocent behind. Daniel Woodrell knows the Missouri Ozarks. He was born there, grew up there, and lives near the Arkansas line still. Winter's Bone is his eighth novel. Five of his novels have been New York Times Notable Books of the Year. I've got some catching up to do. So, Mr. Woodrell, keep writing. I'm going to be gaining on you. Daniel Woodrell's lastest book is The Outlaw Album: Stories ...more Gets so close to a fourth star it can smell the new paint job. In fact the plot is totally 5 star \u2013 the motivations and machinations of all the characters make complete sense and are a real heartbreaker. The main character, 16 year old Ree Dolly, is great. In the movie, which I came across all of 4 years ago, she\u2019s played by none other than Jennifer Lawrence in her first big role, and the movie and Jennifer both knocked me flat on my back then. It\u2019s a must see. If any book was filmed exactly rig Gets so close to a fourth star it can smell the new paint job. In fact the plot is totally 5 star \u2013 the motivations and machinations of all the characters make complete sense and are a real heartbreaker. The main character, 16 year old Ree Dolly, is great. In the movie, which I came across all of 4 years ago, she\u2019s played by none other than Jennifer Lawrence in her first big role, and the movie and Jennifer both knocked me flat on my back then. It\u2019s a must see. If any book was filmed exactly right it\u2019s thisn. What nearly defeats this chunk of hick lit is Daniel Woodrell\u2019s prose style. He thinks he\u2019s the new improved perfect blend of Annie Proulx, William Faulkner and maybe ole Cormac M and some others like that. He\u2019s Mcproulkner or sumpin. Here's what I mean: The world seemed huddled and hushed and her crunching steps cracked loud as ax whacks. Little Arthur was a little-man mix of swagger and tongue, with a trailing history of deeds that vouched for his posture. A picnic of words fell from Gail\u2019s mouth to be gathered around and savoured slowly. Here, Ree is given some real bad news: There was a sound in Ree\u2019s head like a world of zippers zipping shut, and a sudden tilt factor engaged every place she looked. The creek shifted heights in her eyes and swayed overhead floppy as snapped string, the houses beyond skinny as ribs and knotted together in bows, the sky spun upright like a blue plate set on edge to dry. And here\u2019s Ree being assaulted violently: Ree felt her joints unglue, become loose, she was draining somehow, draining to the dirt, while black wings fling angles crossed her mind, and there were mutters of beasts uncaged from women and she was sunk to a moaning place, kicked into silence. And later All her aches were joined as a chorus to sing pain throughout her flesh and thoughts. I\u2019m sorry but this strongly reminds me of Doctor Johnson\u2019s famous advice to writers: Read over your compositions, and where ever you meet with a passage which you think is particularly fine, strike it out. Maybe it\u2019s a matter of taste but for me a lot of Mr Woodrell\u2019s prose above verges on parody; it\u2019s hideously overwrought and self consciously gorgeous. It strikes poses in every phrase. It has the same relationship to the compelling communication of sense and emotion that a catwalk model has to walking in a straight line. About half of the entire short novel is given over to descriptions of the beautiful Ozarks : Disappearing snow left the old tossed stones plain amidst the puny winter weeds and spreading muck. Some stones were stacked two high and some lay in close clusters with stunted oak growing from the narrow spaces between. Not a field or creek or a snowflake passes by without it\u2019s nailed to the page. If you like that you\u2019ll love Winter\u2019s Bone. Such a shame, then. A great \u2013 really great \u2013 tale of loss and hard-won redemption amidst the vicious but ethical crank-cooks of the Ozarks was very nearly capsized by its mode of telling. If Daniel could only have dialled it down a notch or two. ...more Beautifully written, this is a simple story about survival, winter and bones. The main thing to survive is poverty - the kind where buttonless overcoats are de rigueur, and hunting and skinning squirrels is not done strictly for entertainment. It's in the Ozarks and winter is bone-cracking cold. We open the book to a hint of flurries, and venison hanging in trees to \"sweeten that meat to the bone\", and we meet Ree Dolly, our tough teen heroine. The title \"Winter's Bone\" for me summoned a cold, t Beautifully written, this is a simple story about survival, winter and bones. The main thing to survive is poverty - the kind where buttonless overcoats are de rigueur, and hunting and skinning squirrels is not done strictly for entertainment. It's in the Ozarks and winter is bone-cracking cold. We open the book to a hint of flurries, and venison hanging in trees to \"sweeten that meat to the bone\", and we meet Ree Dolly, our tough teen heroine. The title \"Winter's Bone\" for me summoned a cold, terrible image: blue, white, visceral, and hard. It is actually the perfect mental picture for this story. The real meaning is something quite different, but hey misunderstanding titles (and lyrics) is what I do. Bones. Bones. Dem bones is everywhere. There's the olden Dolly kin \"who had so many bones that broke, broke and mended, broke and mended wrong, so they limped through life on the bad-mend bones for year upon year until falling dead in a single evening from something that sounded wet in the lungs\". There's the fun bones, \"Lust slaking to dance tunes, standing hip bone to hip bone, the new hands moving over her rumples and furls and tender knobs, hands good as tongues in the dark corners of those whiskey moments\", and the tasty bones, \"Soup stock from deer bones simmered on the stove and steamed a comforting scent.\" Meth cooking is the main industry in these parts. It isn't all \"let's party\", and it isn't blue. But it is of the \"I am the one who knocks\" variety. Sometimes safety at the workplace fails and everything blows, and the makeshift lab is no longer viable. \"That shit's all poison, girl. Toxic. It'll eat the skin clean off your bones and wilt the bones, too. It'll turn your lungs to paper sacks and tear holes in 'em\". Towards the end, when Ree finds what she is looking for, I think there was a sort of failure of nerves on the part of the author. \"Is my story too quietly grim\", he seems to have asked himself, \"or could it use some CSI graphic osteology, with chain saw and axe?\" I would much prefer the quietly grim over the sensational. Really, all that's needed is a Hardscrabble Elegy. ...more Man, O Man, can this guy write. This is a very impressive novel. Here is language that soars, home-spun lyricisms, trailer-trash poetry, a book chock-full of crackhead sonnet riffs; Woodrell is a virtuoso of the first degree. In Ree Dolly, the teenage protagonist he has conjured up, he has invented somebody you'll remember gladly until your dying days. Fiercely courageous with a keen eye for the moral effrontery foisted on her small shoulders by kin close and distant, she is feisty as a stirred- Man, O Man, can this guy write. This is a very impressive novel. Here is language that soars, home-spun lyricisms, trailer-trash poetry, a book chock-full of crackhead sonnet riffs; Woodrell is a virtuoso of the first degree. In Ree Dolly, the teenage protagonist he has conjured up, he has invented somebody you'll remember gladly until your dying days. Fiercely courageous with a keen eye for the moral effrontery foisted on her small shoulders by kin close and distant, she is feisty as a stirred-up Wolverine and wiser than her elders by far. Instances of unsurpassed brutality and the banality of poverty vie with quiet moments of grace and communion with nature wherein Ree\u2019s beat down body and unbeatable spirit serve as host to all that could be perceived as transcendent in this often unfair and fucked up world. Loved the book. Love Woodrell. Loved Ree. Sheee-it, folks, read it for yourself and see. You\u2019ll love it too. Note: Thanks to Ben Harrison for recovering this review. ...more Ok, I read Winter's Bone on D and Karen's recommendations, so I\u2019m posting links to their reviews before I start: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... and http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... Winter\u2019s Bone is a hell of a book in that A) the novel is fantastic, and B) it's set in an American version of hell. The story of Ree, a teenage girl charged with finding her bail-jumping father in order to save her family\u2019s house, catches fire early and never cools down. Ree lives in a terrifying sectio Ok, I read Winter's Bone on D and Karen's recommendations, so I\u2019m posting links to their reviews before I start: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... and http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... Winter\u2019s Bone is a hell of a book in that A) the novel is fantastic, and B) it's set in an American version of hell. The story of Ree, a teenage girl charged with finding her bail-jumping father in order to save her family\u2019s house, catches fire early and never cools down. Ree lives in a terrifying section of the Ozarks that takes on the character of a mythical underworld with its own set of unwritten codes and rules, of which the two most important are \u201cdon\u2019t snitch\u201d and \u201cdon\u2019t steal\u201d. This book made me want to never drive through the Ozarks again. Seriously. What if your car broke down? The characters in Winter\u2019s Bone made the guys from Deliverance look like pussies. Ree must traverse this hellish landscape of tenacious loyalties and inbred family ties with the help of her baby-bound former best friend and a mutilated uncle flying on crank. Good luck with that, eh? By the way, I\u2019m not exaggerating when I describe this book as \u201cmythical\u201d. Three grim, violent sisters reminded me of the fates and furies. Other characters were monstrous sociopaths. Ree\u2019s gripping journey has an epic quality; she\u2019ll cross hell to preserve her brothers\u2019 redemption and reclaim hope and dignity. Woodrell\u2019s brilliant phrasing captures the dread winter in the kind of place where everyone knows each other and there\u2019s no comfortable way to reconcile the idea that you share a country with the natives. He catches details that color in the lines of despair and unspoken unease. Ree\u2019s resolve is all the more paradoxically human and superhuman for the surroundings. This book checks in at less than 200 pages but feels complete and more than satisfying. Goddamn, I loved Winter\u2019s Bone . Now I want to see the movie. I hope they don\u2019t fuck it up. Mr. Woodrell\u2019s sparse, muscular prose deserves all the praise and awards around its neck and a solid movie to match. (Thanks, D. and Karen!) ...more This novella is a gem. It's tough yet emotional, scary yet empowering, stark and yet beautiful. I have been meaning to read Winter's Bone for several years, but I kept putting it off because I thought it would be depressing. And while the story is bleak, it is so gorgeously written that I got lost in the prose. The book is set in an impoverished region in southern Missouri called the Ozarks, where making meth is a popular way of earning a living. But 17-year-old Ree Dolly hopes to escape to the A This novella is a gem. It's tough yet emotional, scary yet empowering, stark and yet beautiful. I have been meaning to read Winter's Bone for several years, but I kept putting it off because I thought it would be depressing. And while the story is bleak, it is so gorgeously written that I got lost in the prose. The book is set in an impoverished region in southern Missouri called the Ozarks, where making meth is a popular way of earning a living. But 17-year-old Ree Dolly hopes to escape to the Army next year, if she can track down her Daddy. He's out on bond and has been gone for a while, and if she doesn't find him, she'll lose the family home. Poor Ree. She's just a teenager, yet she has to make all of the adult decisions because her mother has gone crazy and her daddy skipped out. She's even taking care of her two younger brothers, teaching them how to cook, how to fight, and how to shoot. Although friends advise her against it, Ree starts asking around to see if anyone can find her father. The more she asks, the more danger she finds. This is one of those stories where a happy ending seems impossible. The movie version of this book with Jennifer Lawrence is well done, but I thought the book was much richer in detail and description. I highly recommend it. Favorite Descriptions \"Mom sat in her chair beside the potbelly and the boys sat at the table eating what Ree fed them. Mom's morning pills turned her into a cat, a breathing thing that sat near heat and occasionally made a sound. Mom's chair was an old padded rocker that seldom rocked, and at odd instants she'd hum ill-matched snips of music, notes unrelated by melody or pitch. But for most of any day she was quiet and still, wearing a small lingering smile prompted by something vaguely nice going on inside her head. She was a Bromont, born to this house, and she'd once been pretty. Even as she was now, medicated and lost to the present, with hair she forgot to wash or brush and deep wrinkles growing on her face, you could see she'd once been as comely as any girl that ever danced barefoot across this tangled country of Ozark hills and hollers. Long, dark, and lovely she had been, in those days before her mind broke and the parts scattered and she let them go.\" \"Ree's grand hope was that these boys would not be dead to wonder by age twelve, dulled to life, empty of kindness, boiling with mean. So many Dolly kids were that way, ruined before they had chin hair, groomed to live outside square law and abide by the remorseless blood-soaked commandments that governed lives led outside square law.\" ...more For the most part, I am perfectly content to read books littered with despicable exemplars of our wonderful species. Give me your moral degenerates, your psychopathic wives, your misogynistic husbands, your bloodthirsty children, your lechers, repeat killers, serial adulterers, conmen, thieves, necrophiliacs, Christians\u2014give me every last bit of your human refuge because I will gladly read about them over honest, good, hardworking men and women any day of the week. Why? Because good people are b For the most part, I am perfectly content to read books littered with despicable exemplars of our wonderful species. Give me your moral degenerates, your psychopathic wives, your misogynistic husbands, your bloodthirsty children, your lechers, repeat killers, serial adulterers, conmen, thieves, necrophiliacs, Christians\u2014give me every last bit of your human refuge because I will gladly read about them over honest, good, hardworking men and women any day of the week. Why? Because good people are boring outside of the real world. So it was a bit of a surprise to get knocked arse over teakettle off my high horse of arch cynicism by this mean, gaunt and big-hearted novel by Daniel Woodrell, the esteemed bard of anti-bucolicism in the Ozarks. Winter\u2019s Bone relates the story of 16-year old Ree Dolly and her quest to find her missing father\u2014an all-around fuck-up who is good for one thing, and that is making meth\u2014before he misses his court date and the gov\u2019ment takes possession of the family\u2019s house and land, which good ole dad was kind enough to put up so he could make bail and then split. Add a nearly catatonic mom and two younger brothers who completely rely on their older sis for survival, and you\u2019d be kind of a cold bitch or bastard to not feel something for Ree. But what really got under my skin was seeing how obviously foiled Ree\u2019s life and dreams already are at the age most of us think we got this whole life situation on lockdown. Woodrell brings to life the hollers and frozen wastelands of the novel\u2019s setting, packed with their hundreds upon hundreds of kissing cousins that have been loafing about since for God knows how many generations now. Ree lives in a patriarchal shithole of a society that champions lifelessness, despair, violence, teen pregnancy, and drug abuse over education, happiness, and self-worth. And a poor economy is only somewhat to blame for these factors. But Woodrell\u2019s novel functions as more than just a condemnation of American backwoods life and the banal cruelty humans enact upon one another; it also offers something resembling hope to the reader, even if it is the meager chance that humans may actually be capable of caring about other people. And let the record show that Ree is a heroine to marvel over as you root for her to somehow come out on top by the end of this sparse, hauntingly-written Gothic yarn. ...more I've put off writing a review for this book because I always struggle with the great ones and Woodrell's Winter's Bone is one of those (with a capital G). It's craft and heart and drama and beauty. It's poetry and grit, entangled in an embrace of love and hatred. Woodrell offers up a stinging portrait of impoverished life in the Ozarks, where kin saves as often as it condemns. The hill people of Ree's world live by their own laws separate from that of the state -- of paramount importance, don't I've put off writing a review for this book because I always struggle with the great ones and Woodrell's Winter's Bone is one of those (with a capital G). It's craft and heart and drama and beauty. It's poetry and grit, entangled in an embrace of love and hatred. Woodrell offers up a stinging portrait of impoverished life in the Ozarks, where kin saves as often as it condemns. The hill people of Ree's world live by their own laws separate from that of the state -- of paramount importance, don't be a snitch and mind your own business. Bad things happen to anyone who talks too much or asks too many questions. Unfortunately, sixteen year old Ree has a lot of questions that need answering with only her to ask them. Left on her own to protect a shattered mother and two helpless kid brothers, Ree is desperate to uncover the whereabouts of her meth-making father. She must venture into the cold and ice and pass over hostile thresholds where she is neither invited nor wanted. Ree\u2019s fierceness and courage stole my heart. She ranks as one of my favorite literary characters OF ALL TIME. Her stubbornness and smart mouth made me smile as much as it made me fear for her safety. Ree has her own set of rules to live by that include, stepping in to do for her brothers where her parents have failed and \u201cNever. Never ask for what ought to be offered.\u201d Ree is an old soul, mature beyond her years, forced to grow up fast and smart in a world that has teeth and a taste for blood. This is a harsh story, one where the author pulls no punches. Woodrell is not out to romanticize this hill life or the hardscrabble characters living it. He wants us to see the ugly, to feel it in our bones, but for all of that there is tremendous beauty here as well, not just in the prose that SINGS but in the simplicity of a proud people who do what they must to survive in an environment that does not forgive weakness or stupidity lightly. I cannot recommend this book enough. I am also going to recommend Kemper\u2019s review here , because he does such a wonderful job capturing the book\u2019s honesty and intensity. If I haven\u2019t convinced you to read Winter\u2019s Bone , he will. ***A note on the audio version: Outstanding! Emma Galvin captures Ree\u2019s strength and vulnerability perfectly. Woodrell\u2019s prose is so gorgeous it soars when read aloud. Love and hate hold hands always so it made natural sense that they'd get confused by upset married folk in the wee hours once in a while and a nosebleed or bruised breast might result. But it just seemed proof that a great foulness was afoot in the world when a no-strings roll in the hay with a stranger led to chipped teeth or cigarette burns on the wrist. ` Winter's Bone ...more Today my therapist and I had an hour-long discussion about Self Talk. Now, most of you born before 1980 will most likely think of this when I say Self Talk. That\u2019s fine. That\u2019s where I went too. You see, I\u2019m in this stage that I call \u2018the flattening\u2019\u2014not sure if that\u2019s a clinical term or not but yeah, I\u2019m also calling it \u2018blah\u2019 or \u2018ennui\u2019 or \u2018fuck this, I need a nap.\u2019 Nothing excites nor upsets me. Nothing is beautiful nor is it fugly. Everything is just\u2026 there. Thus, I began Winter\u2019s Bone . I re Today my therapist and I had an hour-long discussion about Self Talk. Now, most of you born before 1980 will most likely think of this when I say Self Talk. That\u2019s fine. That\u2019s where I went too. You see, I\u2019m in this stage that I call \u2018the flattening\u2019\u2014not sure if that\u2019s a clinical term or not but yeah, I\u2019m also calling it \u2018blah\u2019 or \u2018ennui\u2019 or \u2018fuck this, I need a nap.\u2019 Nothing excites nor upsets me. Nothing is beautiful nor is it fugly. Everything is just\u2026 there. Thus, I began Winter\u2019s Bone . I remember my GR friends raving about it, but I didn\u2019t remember any particulars, except maybe a Deliverance reference (because of my irrational fear, those always catch my eye.) It\u2019s a short book, the font isn\u2019t too terrible. I didn\u2019t think it was such a risk in my current state of mind. This book is bleak. Motherfucking B leak. Okay, first you\u2019ve got these Ozarkians who are mostly inbred, but not in a Chainsaw Massacre sort of way, which is what I was expecting\u2026 but still everyone is a Dolly or a Milton or a fusion of the two. Their lots in life are pretty much cast by birth\u2026 crank cooks mostly\u2026 really, I can\u2019t see another viable occupation\u2026 maybe road kill hunters? I\u2019m not sure. The story centers on Ree, a sixteenish year old girl who takes charge of her two brothers when her mother loses her mind and is cast to the rocking chair humming old dance tunes and her Dad goes MIA, skipping his court hearing and leaving his family in jeopardy of losing their home. Christ\u2026 Ree\u2019s life makes the Ingalls look decadent . She\u2019s got a batty mom, two boys that she loves dearly and hopes will make a better life for themselves, a crank cookin\u2019 AWOL father and a bunch of lecherous kin hanging about. Hello? A&E would have a field day with this\u2026 I foresee the next installment of reality shows The Ozarks . Here\u2019s where I relate the Self Talk. Ree dreams of getting out of this hole and joining the army and seeing the world. She\u2019s been prepping her brothers to hunt (squirrels) and cook (squirrels) and take care of their mom. To Ree, this is her way of staying above the chasm that is crazy. Before she can leave, she needs to find her Dad, he put their house up for bail and she needs to set this straight. She does what everyone warns her not to\u2026 she starts asking questions. Now, we might not think this is a \u2018bad\u2019 thing, right? It\u2019s just questions\u2026 apparently her kin feel differently and their reaction is a beat down that makes that scene in Goodfellas look like a ride at Disneyland. Bleak. Yet, Ree\u2019s Self Talk doesn\u2019t have her giving up and going to that world of butterflies and warm beaches that her mother frequents from her rocking chair\u2026 instead it has her risking her life to find out what happened to her father in order to save the family farm (so to speak.) But, what I find interesting is how her close(r) kin react. There is honor and reparations and a good heaping of vengeance mixed in that show that even though they live this fucked up life, they are not alone. This made me almost cherish this wholly dysfunctional, squirrel eating, family. And yet\u2026 There was something about this book that just didn\u2019t stick with me. Maybe it was that I couldn\u2019t relate to such a family or situation. It probably didn\u2019t help that I read most of this book while sitting by the pool or working out at the gym. Yeah, it really didn\u2019t give me the attachment that I crave when reading. It\u2019s totally selfish and really shouldn\u2019t affect my rating of the book, but there it is. The writing is impressive\u2026 the tale is haunting\u2026 but\u2026 sometimes Woodrell would pepper his character\u2019s speech with lines like \u2018There\u2019s always been favorite places\u2019 or \u2018This was how sudden things happened that haunted forever.\u2019 and it would jar me out of this girl\u2019s journey and make me remember that I\u2019m reading this on the elliptical and that I\u2019m not freezing in some forgotten graveyard in Missouri. ...more 3 \u2013 3.5 stars I think I may have come to this book with excessive expectations given the consistently high ratings and voluminous praise in GR friends\u2019 reviews. That\u2019s not to say that this was a bad book, or that I didn\u2019t enjoy it, but for me this book didn\u2019t hit the sweet spot that it seemed to reach for most others. Ree Dolly is a tough-as-nails adolescent living a hand-to-mouth existence in perhaps the worst possible conditions in the backwoods of the Ozarks, forced to care for her two younger 3 \u2013 3.5 stars I think I may have come to this book with excessive expectations given the consistently high ratings and voluminous praise in GR friends\u2019 reviews. That\u2019s not to say that this was a bad book, or that I didn\u2019t enjoy it, but for me this book didn\u2019t hit the sweet spot that it seemed to reach for most others. Ree Dolly is a tough-as-nails adolescent living a hand-to-mouth existence in perhaps the worst possible conditions in the backwoods of the Ozarks, forced to care for her two younger brothers and mentally ill mother. Her father, a meth cook who\u2019s gone missing and who has put up their house as part of his bond, provides the impetus for the plot and propels Ree into a world of suspicious kin, underworld honour, and ever-present danger. She\u2019s got gumption, this girl, that\u2019s for sure, but I don\u2019t know if I\u2019d say she \u201ckicks ass\u201d the way most reviewers do. I\u2019d say she knows how to take a licking and keep on ticking. She\u2019s also headstrong as a bull and won\u2019t let anything, or anyone, stand in her way, no matter how intimidating. There\u2019s a lot to love about Ree: her undying love for her family and fierce devotion to them regardless of her dreams to escape from what she knows is a dead-end life; her refusal to let others tell her when she needs to give up and let \u2018what has to be\u2019 shut her down; her willingness to make any personal sacrifice when it will better the case of others in her life. Other characters are also vividly drawn even if they only appear briefly in the story: Uncle Teardrop springs to mind, a man who is both exactly what he seems and something more; Sherriff Baskin, a lawman who straddles the uncomfortable line between the official and criminal worlds that seems to be endemic of places like the Ozark backwoods of tightly-knit outlaw families; the vicious loyalty and twisted sense of honour of Merab Milton and her sisters; the playful, but tragic innocence of Ree\u2019s brothers Sonny and Harold. Still, all that said I found myself not really finding myself fully pulled into the story until the final third of the book. Prior to that there\u2019s a lot of wandering amongst the backwoods and remembering of times past mingled with fears of times to come as Ree searches for her father, but it\u2019s not until things start coming to a head that I really found myself compelled by the story. Add to that Woodrell\u2019s over-wrought prose and things stayed at a \u2018good but not great\u2019 level for the most part for me. I mean, I\u2019m as much of a fan of poetic prose as the next guy (probably even more so given who the next guy is likely to be), but I still winced at a fair number of Woodrell\u2019s metaphors, and his overblown (and sometimes confusing) descriptions of nature sort of reminded me of some of the Romantics at their most over-heated and excessive. Woodrell is by no means a bad writer, but I do think his prose would have benefitted by being turned down a notch or two from time to time, if only to let those high-flown metaphors that did work shine all the more. Still, a very good read. Hick-lit noir that generally delivers on its promise. ...more Icy, dark, beautiful, and brutal. Ive rarely hurt for and hoped for a character as much as I did Ree. Sweet Pea, for all time. The main character here is written as tough and tender and backed into a hard place, and it is terrific to see a strong female protagonist in a work of Southern grit lit. Ree is a bright teen living in poverty but who sees a sensible way out of the awful lifestyle that her parents have accepted. As her plans start to gel, a family emergency pops up, and there are no adul Icy, dark, beautiful, and brutal. Ive rarely hurt for and hoped for a character as much as I did Ree. Sweet Pea, for all time. The main character here is written as tough and tender and backed into a hard place, and it is terrific to see a strong female protagonist in a work of Southern grit lit. Ree is a bright teen living in poverty but who sees a sensible way out of the awful lifestyle that her parents have accepted. As her plans start to gel, a family emergency pops up, and there are no adults who can manage the crisis. Although she can carry on with her own plans, instead she chooses to stare danger in the face and take heroic action. If she does not take the risks she does, her siblings and mentally incapable mother will suffer. What is so amazing about Daniel Woodrell's writing - his stuff is very gritty, super southern noir -is that he steps seamlessly inside his female protagonists to look out from their eyes. In Tomato Red, there are two tough cookies - a mom & her maybe 19 year old daughter. As he does here with the girl named Ree, Woodrell speaks for them with incredible skill. So very rare for somebody to write both genders so well. There is nothing smiley-faced or sunshiney about this novel. The descriptions of blighted characters, stark country side, and danger are phenomenal - but it is the sweetness this girl feels for her loved ones and her courage that will make you root for her. If you loved the fictional girls called Scout or Swede or Swan, then this is the powerful teenager she could have grown into if her upbringing were as harsh. Loved this book. 5 stars and on my favorites shelf. ...more Horrendous, goopy, writers' workshop writing. \"Moons of ache glowed in spaces of her meat and when she moved the moons banged together and stunned.\" (Are sentences required to make sense in \"contemporary fiction?\") \"Moans droned from her chest of bones. Shit leaked from her panties and she felt runnels of yuck on her thighs.\" Channeling Dr. Seuss and Cormac McCarthy simultaneously: ambitious! \"She thrust her head into the cold and broadcast the hot mush of old swallowed food toward the snowbanks.\" Horrendous, goopy, writers' workshop writing. \"Moons of ache glowed in spaces of her meat and when she moved the moons banged together and stunned.\" (Are sentences required to make sense in \"contemporary fiction?\") \"Moans droned from her chest of bones. Shit leaked from her panties and she felt runnels of yuck on her thighs.\" Channeling Dr. Seuss and Cormac McCarthy simultaneously: ambitious! \"She thrust her head into the cold and broadcast the hot mush of old swallowed food toward the snowbanks.\" Conjures up a Rush Limbaugh radio program, somehow. Was \"catapulted\" too literal? The thought that instructors are actually encouraging soupy messes like this is dispiriting, and one wants now to read things that are cleansing, purifying, bracing tonics, literary enemas - Willa Cather, Sir Walter Scott, Jackie Collins, the minutes of the winter meeting of the Financial Accounting Standards Board. ...more I don't know -- is it me? People seemed to really like this book, according to goodreads and Amazon reviews, but I just couldn't get into it. It seemed like your typical Oprah book; I felt like I was reading \"Cold Mountain,\" \"Peace Like a River,\" and several others blurred into one indistinguishable mass. Everyone raved about the heroine, Ree Dolly, who felt like a cliche to me and a pretty one-dimensional one at that -- young, tough, heroic hick-town girl, like Renee Zellweger's character in \"C I don't know -- is it me? People seemed to really like this book, according to goodreads and Amazon reviews, but I just couldn't get into it. It seemed like your typical Oprah book; I felt like I was reading \"Cold Mountain,\" \"Peace Like a River,\" and several others blurred into one indistinguishable mass. Everyone raved about the heroine, Ree Dolly, who felt like a cliche to me and a pretty one-dimensional one at that -- young, tough, heroic hick-town girl, like Renee Zellweger's character in \"Cold Mountain,\" on an odyssey to save her family, blah blah blah. I guess young, tough heroines are a good trend after the simpering antifeminist ones of yesterday but they're starting to be just that -- a trend. I had difficulty sympathizing with the characters, and the lifestyle was so foreign to me -- although that's usually a good thing, here it was too removed for me to become engrossed in the story. The idea of a 16-year-old girl greeting her friend's husband with, \"Getting any lately?\" was a bit much for me. The author did in fact grow up in the Ozarks, so I have to assume he was describing it authentically, but I just couldn't relate. ...more Sixteen-year-old Ree Dolly lives for the day when she will be old enough to join the Army and escape the grinding economic and intellectual poverty of her life in the Missouri Ozarks where her extended family lives by a variety of illegal pursuits, mostly involving the manufacture and distribution of methamphetamines and crank cocaine. But Ree's dreams are shattered when her father, a celebrated meth chef, disappears, leaving Ree nearly penniless and responsible for her two younger brothers and Sixteen-year-old Ree Dolly lives for the day when she will be old enough to join the Army and escape the grinding economic and intellectual poverty of her life in the Missouri Ozarks where her extended family lives by a variety of illegal pursuits, mostly involving the manufacture and distribution of methamphetamines and crank cocaine. But Ree's dreams are shattered when her father, a celebrated meth chef, disappears, leaving Ree nearly penniless and responsible for her two younger brothers and her mentally-ill mother. The situation becomes even worse when Ree discovers that, before disappearing, her father had posted bail using the family's house as collateral. If he fails to appear in court a week later, as will almost certainly be the case, Ree, her mother and brothers will lose everything. Ree thus embarks on a desperate search to find her father, dead or alive, before the court date. She is thwarted at almost every turn by her own relatives and by the code of silence that pervades the culture around her. And when Ree ignores repeated warnings to abandon her search, she pays a fearsome price. Woodrell paints a vivid and heart-wrenching portrait of life in the Ozarks that has the ring of a desperate truth. In Ree Dolly, he has created a character that reminds one of Mattie Ross in Charles Portis's True Grit . But Ree's mission takes her into a much darker world that seems to have few redeeming features and very little hope. And unfortunately for Ree, Rooster Cogburn will not be riding to the rescue. ...more Daniel Woorell has written a gothic, atmospheric book set in the Ozark Mountains. A sixteen-year-old girl should not have to shoulder the weight of caring for her family, but Ree Dolly's medicated mother is in another world and her father has skipped bail. The family will lose their home if he's not found, either dead or alive. Ree's father was one of the best crank chefs in the Dolly clan, and he was facing ten years in prison. Ree can be tough when it's needed, but she also exhibits a tender si Daniel Woorell has written a gothic, atmospheric book set in the Ozark Mountains. A sixteen-year-old girl should not have to shoulder the weight of caring for her family, but Ree Dolly's medicated mother is in another world and her father has skipped bail. The family will lose their home if he's not found, either dead or alive. Ree's father was one of the best crank chefs in the Dolly clan, and he was facing ten years in prison. Ree can be tough when it's needed, but she also exhibits a tender side teaching her two younger brothers how to cook supper and shoot a gun. She doesn't know if she'll return home alive as she visits violent men and women, inquiring about her father. There is a wonderful sense of place since Woodrell writes in the country voice of his native Misssouri Ozarks. The atmosphere is chilly, icy, and bleak. The people are impoverished and operating under their own code of law. The past generation brewed moonshine, and this generation of men cooks meth. But the Dollys have a sense of loyalty to those related by blood. Ree's journey has moments of both warmth and heartbreak as she searches through the winter landscape. Highly recommended. ...more \u201cRee Dolly stood at the break of day on her cold front steps and smelled coming flurries and saw meat. Meat hung from trees across the creek. Carcasses hung pale of flesh with fatty gleam from low limbs of saplings in the side yards. Three halt haggard houses formed a kneeling rank on the far creekside and each had two or more skinned torsos dangling by rope from sagged limbs, venison left to the weather for two nights and three days so the early blossoming of decay might round the flavor, sweet \u201cRee Dolly stood at the break of day on her cold front steps and smelled coming flurries and saw meat. Meat hung from trees across the creek. Carcasses hung pale of flesh with fatty gleam from low limbs of saplings in the side yards. Three halt haggard houses formed a kneeling rank on the far creekside and each had two or more skinned torsos dangling by rope from sagged limbs, venison left to the weather for two nights and three days so the early blossoming of decay might round the flavor, sweeten that meat to the bone.\u201d This is why I read more literary fiction now. It's why I have made such a turnabout from my not-long-ago days of sneering at litfic as pretty words spewed out by MFAs at the expense of plot and characterization. Oh, I still love my genre books, and there are plenty of litfic writers who leave me slow-clapping unmoved (I'm looking at you, Philip Roth and David Foster Wallace and John Banville), but Winter's Bone is a novel that is as accessible as anything on the YA shelves, and it's about a sixteen-year-old girl and full of drama and adventure (and some sex), but it's not YA because it's got some stylized writing that might force the YA-junkie's brain to stretch ever so slightly, and there are no vampires or zombies or dystopian governments, and a hot boy is not the heroine's reward at the end of the novel. Winter's Bone is set in the modern-day Ozarks, a place where Daniel Woodrell (who has a MFA) grew up and still lives. Not the pretty Ozark towns and tourist resorts, but the back backwoods, a violent, insular, dirt-poor place, where the people are hard, poor, and proud, and most of the region's GDP comes from meth. Ree Dolly is a sixteen-year-old girl who carries her entire family on her shoulders. She has two younger brothers and a mother who's permanently checked out, mentally. Ree's grand hope was that these boys would not be dead to wonder by age twelve, dulled to life, empty of kindness, boiling with mean. So many Dolly kids were that way, ruined before they had chin hair, groomed to live outside square law and abide by the remorseless blood-soaked commandments that governed lives led outside square law. There were two hundred Dollys, plus Lockrums, Boshells, Tankerslys, and Langans, who were basically Dollys by marriage, living within thirty miles of this valley. Some lived square lives, many did not, but even the square-living Dollys were Dollys at heart and might be helpful kin in a pinch. The rough Dollys were plenty peppery and hard-boiled toward one another, but were unleashed hell on enemies, scornful of town law and town ways, clinging to their own. Sometimes when Ree fed Sonny and Harold oatmeal suppers they would cry, sit there spooning down oatmeal but crying for meat, eating all there was while crying for all there could be, become wailing little cyclones of want and need, and she would fear for them. Her father is a meth cook who's in and out of their lives. When he goes missing before a court date, the sheriff's deputy tells Ree that her father put up their house as his bond, and if he doesn't show, they'll be kicked out. Ree nearly fell but would not let it happen in front of the law. She heard thunder clapping between her ears and Beelzebub scratchin' a fiddle. The boys and her and Mom would be dogs in the fields without this house. They would be dogs in the fields with Beelzebub scratchin' out tunes and the boys'd have a hard hard shove toward unrelenting meanness and the roasting shed and she'd be stuck alongside them 'til steel doors clanged shut and the flames rose. She'd never get away from her family as planned, off to the U.S. Army, where you got to travel with a gun and they made everybody help keep things clean. She'd never have only her own concerns to tote. She'd never have her own concerns. This is an amazing story about a tough, brave girl in a very hard environment. Most of the men are doing criminal deeds in the back woods, most girls wind up married on account of pregnancy, like Ree's best friend Gail, and as trapped as the men with no way out. He said, \"You think you get it, but you don't. I mean, you oughta try it your own self sometime. Get drunk one night and wind up married to somebody you don't hardly know.\" \"I know her real good.\" \"Yes'm, girl, you oughta go'n get yourself good'n drunk one night and have you a kid. I mean it.\" \"No thanks. I already got two. Not countin' Mom.\" Floyd's arc of piss slackened and slackened until he shook the last drops loose. \"Nobody here wants to be awful,\" he said. He hopped a little as he zipped up. \"It's just nobody here knows all the rules yet, and that makes a rocky time.\" Everyone in this book is already on that hard, bleak road: some, like Ree and her brothers, you think could still get off that road; others, like Ree's terrifying uncle Teardrop, whose face was melted by a meth explosion and who's usually high on crank, have just enough humanity left to make them Greek tragedies. Ree sees her future looming before her, and the future of her brothers, and Woodrell doesn't give you any promises that they are going to be any different. He paints a harsh, vivid picture of stark woods, iron-faced women, trigger-happy men, blood-feuds, and honor killings, all in a place that could be America a hundred years ago except for the meth. Ree's quest to save her house by finding out what happened to her father means crossing the extended, violent Dolly clan that doesn't like anybody asking questions, least of all girls. Even knowing what she is up against, Ree doesn't quit. She is going to make them give her what she needs or kill her, one or the other. \"You was warned. You was warned nice'n you wouldn't listen \u2014 why didn't you listen?\" \"I can't listen. I can't just listen.\" She moved her head slowly, wobbling as she aimed her good eye, and saw that there were others in the barn. Shapes milling by the open double door, wearing man hats, smoking, watching in silence. One of the man hats stepped near. Megan squatted, patted Ree's face, and said, \"Whatever are we to do about you, baby girl? Huh?\" \"Kill me, I guess.\" \"That idea has been said already. Got'ny other ones?\" \"Help me. Ain't nobody said that idea yet, have they?\" I loved this book because the astringent prose is Faulkneresque, while the story, the characters, the real raw messy human hearts bleeding on the page, are superior in every way to what so many readers of less challenging fiction (i.e. YA) say they want but settle for from Magical Boyfriend books. I actually saw the movie before I read the book, which means it was harder for me to judge the plot twists in the book when I already knew what was going to happen. I will say that the movie is fantastic, a real piece of art, and it's also one of the most faithful adaptations of a book I've seen. Scene for scene and line for line, almost everything in the movie is straight from the book. \u201cI said shut up once already, with my mouth.\u201d Brrr. Woodrell has a brilliant way of conveying in a few words that these are people with whom you do not fuck. Comparisons between Winter's Bone and The Hunger Games (which, despite my snark, I did also like) are inevitable. Jennifer Lawrence starred in both movies, for one, and did quite a marvelous job in both roles. But the parallels between Ree Dolly and Katniss Everdeen are pretty obvious: two girls living in oppressive backwoods squalor, forced to hunt squirrels to feed their younger siblings, trying to take care of a family with a mother who's mentally checked out and a father who's gone... it's amazing more people don't accuse Suzanne Collins of ripping off Daniel Woodrell than Koushun Takami. The life-and-death struggles of the Dolly clan are every bit as bleak and violent as those of District 12, except, you know, real . In terms of style and heart, though, Winter's Bone is much closer to True Grit , another favorite of mine. Ree is a little older and a lot more worldly than Maddie Ross, but Ree is more like Maddie, self-possessed and unswervable, than the passive pushed-and-prodded-into-action protagonist of The Hunger Games . Winter's Bone is a more grown-up tale than either of these other two books, though; it's got not just blood, but shit and piss and puke, not gratuitous but in all the places where human beings are messier than they can hope to be on film. It's ugly and beautiful and equally raw in both aspects, from the beatings Ree takes to the brief blink-and-you'll-miss-it lesbian subtext, to the ending, which, like the lesbian thread, is one of the few things elided in the movie. Violence and vengeance is like gravity; Ree might escape it, she might not, but not all those around her will. My highest recommendation. ...more A perfect, ice-cold winter read that burns like frostbite, but in a pleasant way. In this thriller set in the harsh Ozark Mountains, 17-year-old Ree Dolly is determined to find her father. Deadbeat dad and meth-cooker Jessup Dolly didn\u2019t show up for court, and since he put up their house for collateral with the bailbondsmen, chances are high that the family gets kicked out by the end of the month. Bearing responsibility for her two younger brothers and her mentally unstable mother, Ree starts as A perfect, ice-cold winter read that burns like frostbite, but in a pleasant way. In this thriller set in the harsh Ozark Mountains, 17-year-old Ree Dolly is determined to find her father. Deadbeat dad and meth-cooker Jessup Dolly didn\u2019t show up for court, and since he put up their house for collateral with the bailbondsmen, chances are high that the family gets kicked out by the end of the month. Bearing responsibility for her two younger brothers and her mentally unstable mother, Ree starts asking questions \u2013 expect people in Ozark hate questions. Everyone living in the poor mountain community, from friends to (distant) family members, tell her to shut up and don\u2019t cause trouble, but Ree can\u2019t listen: she just has too much to lose. \u201cJessup never would smack you. I don\u2019t know why, why he never would, but I always have said someday somebody\u2019s goin\u2019 to pay a price for him not whompin\u2019 you good when you needed it.\u201d \u201cI wasn\u2019t tryin\u2019 to be a smart mouth, there, Teardrop. Uncle Teardrop.\u201d \u201cIt don\u2019t seem like you\u2019ve got to try none, girl, smarty-mouth shit just flies out your yap anytime your yap falls open.\u201d Ree is an incredible heroine. She\u2019s a prime example of a tough female character: brave, independent, resourceful, smart, but not afraid to be kind and tender to her loved-ones. \u201cShe would never cry where her tears might be seen and counted against her\u201d, but in the moments where Ree is together with her brothers or her best friend Gail, you see her hidden soft side and warm heart. However, due to what life has given her, she had to grow grim and cold; it\u2019s all a matter of survival. Ree is a young woman \u2013 a teenager, still - carrying a heavy load while living in a harsh, cruel, and unforgiving world without any laws or people to help her. \u201cYou should never ask for what ought to be offered\u201d, but not even family bonds guarantee support when you\u2019re living in Ozark and decide to get into other people\u2019s business. Ree\u2019s uncle Teardrop is a great illustration of these peculiar (family) dynamics between people: the man himself has half of his face melted off, he\u2019s a crystal meth addict and he is basically a very dangerous person. Ree is terrified of him (and she should be), but later on you learn how he cares for her, in his own strange way. So this book isn\u2019t a cheerful read. It\u2019s bleak and grim and although you\u2019ll love Ree\u2019s unbending spirit, your heart will break for the price she has to pay to discover the truth about her missing father. The story is therefore pretty scary and emotional and can sometimes feel quite hopeless, but reading Ree\u2019s conversations with her brothers, Gail, or her uncle will give your strength. Ree is on her own but not alone, and even though the ending of the book isn\u2019t happy, you get the feeling Ree will be okay. I take one star off because sometimes the descriptions of the winter landscape were a little too wordy and the pace getting too slow around 60% of the book, but overall this is an incredible read to start 2017 with, so 4 stars . PS. In 2010 \u201cWinter\u2019s Bone\u201d was made into a movie with the same name, and the book-to-movie-adaptation is, in my opinion, very well done. The movie stays loyal to the plot, the atmosphere and the setting are perfect, and the portrayal of Ree Dolly by a very young Jennifer Lawrence is fantastic. If you like this book, you\u2019ll definitely like the movie too. ...more Daniel Woodrell has gathered much praise from my fellow Goodreaders and the whole community, along with professional reviewers who compared his novels to the work of William Faulkner and Cormac McCarthy. Winter's Bone is his most famous novel which also has been turned into a succesful motion picture . Woodrell coined the term \"country noir\" to describe one of his novels, and it fits Winter's Bone perfectly as well. Ree Dolly is just sixteen and lives in the isolated backwoods of the Missouri Oza Daniel Woodrell has gathered much praise from my fellow Goodreaders and the whole community, along with professional reviewers who compared his novels to the work of William Faulkner and Cormac McCarthy. Winter's Bone is his most famous novel which also has been turned into a succesful motion picture . Woodrell coined the term \"country noir\" to describe one of his novels, and it fits Winter's Bone perfectly as well. Ree Dolly is just sixteen and lives in the isolated backwoods of the Missouri Ozarks, where she has to care for her two younger brothers and mentally disabled mother. Jesup Dolly, her father, disappeared after being charged with manufacturing methamphetamine - he skipped bail and is nowhere to be seen. Jessup has disappeared before, but this time the situation is crucial - he used his family's home as collateral, and the Dollys will lose their house if he doesn't show up at the next court date - in a week's time. Ree has to find him - dead or alive - to save her house and family. Woodrell's novel presents a bleak picture of life in a forgotten holler from which the only mean of escape is joining the army. Ree is a likable protagonist - a strong teenager, battered by life but not broken, devoted to her brothers and mother, even to the father who failed her. Ree's smart beyond her years, and well adjusted to the mentality and unspoken code of the Ozarks - where people don't snitch and stay quiet, minding their own business. Ree dropped out of high school and plans on joining the U.S. army as soon as she is eligible, in the meantime teaching her younger brother skills necessary to survive when she's gone. Saving the house is essential for her and she will stop at nothing until she'll find Jessup. I can certainly see why many of my GR friends raved about Winter's Bone , but I'm afraid that I cannot join the choir. Despite Woodrell's admirable effort at portraying the roughness and toughness of life in the Ozarks, I remained almost completely uninterested. I did not care for Ree ever finds Jessup and if she'll lose her house or not - just nothing, nada, zip. My attention started to wane and remained low till the very end, which I thought was disappointing (view spoiler) [although it is implied, we never learn who killed Jessup. I tend to dislike mystery stories where the killer is not revealed, as it sort of defeats the purpose of a mystery in the first place. (hide spoiler) ] . It got so bad that I started noticing some awful pieces of writing, such as: Moons of ache glowed in spaces of her meat and when she moved the moons banged together and stunned. - why moons and not suns, or orbits? Orbits of pain? Makes the same exact sense. She thrust her head into the cold and broadcast the hot mush of old swallowed food toward the snowbanks. The words puke and upchuck have been used in sentences just before this one, but I still think that broadcast was a rather poor if unusual choice for describing the act of vomiting. Granted, it's probably the first time ever I read it in such context, but still it didn't do me any good. There were more but these two I remembered as particularly clunky, resembling work of a wannabe writer and not an established author. I blame Donald Ray Pollock for writing what I thought to be superior and much more engaging rural fiction and spoiling me (and being a better writer). Winter's Bone was made into a film starring Jennifer Lawrence of Hunger Games fame. It was critically acclaimed, so perhaps on the screen it is better - but the print version didn't encourage me to read more of Woodrell's work. ...more On Sunday I flew from Salt Lake to Memphis, and looked down on the country of Winter's Bone --northern Arkansas. There are a few places in this country, thank God, that scare me more than inner cities like Detroit, East LA, Harlem, and the south side of Chicago. Those are the parts of the country down to which federal money never seems to trickle, swamps of Louisiana, East Kentucky, most of West Virginia, and, yes, northern Arkansas. Why are these places scarier than ghettos? Because they're expa On Sunday I flew from Salt Lake to Memphis, and looked down on the country of Winter's Bone --northern Arkansas. There are a few places in this country, thank God, that scare me more than inner cities like Detroit, East LA, Harlem, and the south side of Chicago. Those are the parts of the country down to which federal money never seems to trickle, swamps of Louisiana, East Kentucky, most of West Virginia, and, yes, northern Arkansas. Why are these places scarier than ghettos? Because they're expansive, hidden, inaccessible, viciously secretive, and miles and miles from someone friendly that can hear you scream. Response to murder is measured in hours not in minutes. There's a certain amount of interbreeding, animal cruelty, 30-year-old-grandmas hustling for MDMA, and police collusion that's a bit creepy too. Winter's Bone is a succinct and mesmerizing exposition of the people who make, traffic, and are addicted to crank. But, it's artfully told through the life of a tough 16 year old girl, a victim who's whole life is struggling to survive a region turned sickly inwards because of chronic molestation and ubiquitous drug use, up and down the generations, and branching out in every direction. Ree Dolly hunts for her dad, so he can make a court date and not lose the deed to the decrepit home he put up to make bond. The home is where Ree, her 2 younger brothers of different mothers, and her clinically fried mama have chintzy walls, a wood burning stove, and an empty kitchen. Over a week in a snowy winter, Ree takes us from freak show to miserable freak show, and eventually finds her father, though not in the place or form she expected. To call this 'white trash' is not accurate. It's better to call it some kind of broken tribe of medieval morals & practices with a little access to automobiles and meth labs. Poverty is crushing, rape is a happenstance, bloodlines are law, and brains are fried by early adulthood in this land of double wide trailers, huntin' dogs living year round in pens full of dogshit, unpaved roads, lies, roaches, and hostile shotguns behind gauzy curtains. This story is a vicious, lacerating commentary on backwoods people, their secrets, their sex, their brutal form of justice. Daniel Woodrell uses very direct, simple language to show us Ree's world. I was immediately on her side, and willing to kick some ass to help her find her dad. As bad as it gets, Woodrell keeps it believable. I feel that Winter's Bone is a better documentary of America's lost backwoods than anything put together by NOVA, Frontline, National Geographic, or TLC. Ree exists. She exists dozens of times over with names like Brandi, Ronnie, Suzy, and Vicki. And she exists right now in places like Arkansas and Kentucky and West Virginia. And she's losing a struggle to break the cycle of incest and poverty and mesothelioma. Brandi wants to join the US Army at age 18. It's an admirable choice. But I don't know if this little girl has the fortitude to last another couple years in this culture of recidivism, perversion, depravity, and ignorance. The sun didn't shine all week, and Woodrell makes you feel snow and cold in about 25 different ways. A solid 4 star Goodread. Thanks to D. Pow for the recommendation and strong endorsement. ...more It seems like a lot of people on Goodreads have been reviewing this book or marking it as \"to-read\" lately - probably due to the movie version being released a few months ago. Since I love a good bandwagon as much as the next girl, I put this book on hold at the library (obviously some Goodreaders patronize my local library) and waited for my chance to read it. First, it's a short book - 193 pages - and I was able to finish it in about a day. But this story is light reading only in a purely lite It seems like a lot of people on Goodreads have been reviewing this book or marking it as \"to-read\" lately - probably due to the movie version being released a few months ago. Since I love a good bandwagon as much as the next girl, I put this book on hold at the library (obviously some Goodreaders patronize my local library) and waited for my chance to read it. First, it's a short book - 193 pages - and I was able to finish it in about a day. But this story is light reading only in a purely literal sense. I hate saying that a book packs a punch, because that's a very overused phrase, so instead I'll be more direct and say that this book straight out punches you in the face. Repeatedly. It makes you feel sad and hungry and scared and hurt and angry and cold. You want to get out, and take the protagonist with you. Winter's Bone takes place in the rural Missouri Ozarks, in a small area inhabited by a handful of closely-knit outlaw families. Before you start getting all misty-eyed, when I say \"outlaw\" I mean \"should really be in jail for the safety of everyone.\" \"Outlaw\" doesn't mean \"steals from the rich, gives to the poor, accompanied by gangs of merry men.\" \"Outlaw\" means \"cooks meth, skips bail, and murders people for talking to police.\" Trapped in this world of violence and probably a hefty dose of inbreeding is 17-year-old Ree Dolly, who has become the sole provider for her two younger brothers since her mother went crazy and her father disappeared. One day \"the law\" shows up at the house, and tells Ree that her father put the family's cabin up for bail, and if he doesn't show for his court date in a week they lose the house. Ree knows she and her brothers need that house to survive, so she decides to find her father. What follows is a harrowing odyssey as Ree seeks out various extended family members and tries to get someone to tell her what happened to her father. This is a family where asking questions gets you beaten up, and talking to the cops gets you killed. Obviously, no one's willing to tell Ree anything about where her dad might be, and she begins to suspect that everyone knows something she doesn't. But she keeps asking. Now, when a normal person talks to a guy with prison tattoos and burn scars from an exploding meth lab on his face, and is told to mind her own business, she damn well minds her own business. But lucky for the reader, Ree Dolly happens to be a total fucking badass, and the best part is that it's completely genuine. Ree isn't trying to prove anything to us or her family by being tough, unlike some literary heroines I could name. (I'm looking at you, Lisbeth.) Ree is tough because she has to be. She's tough because where she comes from, there's no other way. The only time this book loses a star is in Woodrell's narration, which can get a little ridiculous sometimes. Half the time he's writing in the hill-folk dialect that the characters speak in (which really wasn't so bad once you got the rhythm of it) and the rest of the time he's working really, really hard to write things in a way that is New and Different and Innovative. Sometimes this works, and sometimes not so much, as seen in this hot mess of a sentence: \"A picnic of words fell from Gail's mouth to be gathered around and savored slowly.\" I actually winced when I read that one. Calm it down there, Woodrell. ...more I hate it when I hear people say their life 'sucks', or their life is 'horrible.' If they want to see a life which sucks, and is truly horrible, they should step into Ree Dolly's life for a day. I bet they wouldn't last until noon...And just because the sun goes down, doesn't mean the day is over. Sometimes, it's just getting started. For me, what makes Winter's Bone so heartbreaking is, there are real people who live like this. This is one novel I don't think which was exaggerated for the effect I hate it when I hear people say their life 'sucks', or their life is 'horrible.' If they want to see a life which sucks, and is truly horrible, they should step into Ree Dolly's life for a day. I bet they wouldn't last until noon...And just because the sun goes down, doesn't mean the day is over. Sometimes, it's just getting started. For me, what makes Winter's Bone so heartbreaking is, there are real people who live like this. This is one novel I don't think which was exaggerated for the effects of a story. It's realness almost makes it inconceiveable, because you almost want to deny yourself the truth of reality. What is reality? In the United States alone, there are about 1.5 million regular meth users. These users have families, sometimes children, siblings, parents, aunts, uncles, cousins, neices, and nephews. Maybe even grandchildren. Their meth addiction affects everyone around them.....If anyone stays around. This is what has happened to Ree Dolly and her two younger brothers, Harold and Sonny. Her family, The Dolly's, are known for cooking meth, and for being good at it. Her dad, Jessup Dolly, is known for being the best meth cooker in the area. Ree looked at the ruined house, the splintered roof, charred wood, walls licked by black flame. \"He never blew no lab before.\" \"I know it. But somethin' musta jumped wrong this time.\" \"He's known for NEVER fuckin' up labs nor cookin' bad batches. He's known for knowin' what he's doin'.\" He's missing, and Ree is now the sole caretaker of her family. At 16, she's looking for her dad because he used their home, the only thing they own, for his bail. Ree shows she is capable of handling tough situations with heart, and at the end of the day, still have enough love in her for her brothers, her best friend, and even her Uncle Teardrop, who scares her. Ree watched as he smoked, watched and waited drowsily until he leaned backwards, unrolled a Baggie of crank, dipped a finger to the powder and snorted, gasped, snorted more. He sucked up hard with his nose. She yawned and said, \"You always have scared me, Uncle Teardrop.\" He said, \"That's 'cause you're smart.\" Many would be driven to hate and hardness. But that's not Ree's style, and she's determined to not end up like those around her. What I loved about this book was the fact, even through all of the bad shit, and let's be honest, it's more than just 'stuff' going on in her life, you're still rooting for Ree. You're wanting her to succeed. Not necessarily to get out of the place. You're just wanting her to save her home and not end up dead at the meth-cooking hands of her kin. The lengths this sixteen year old girl, who had to drop out of high school to support her family by hunting so they had three measely meals a day, has to go through are gut-wrenching. And even though she gets the hell beat out of her at one point, she doesn't want anyone's pity. All Ree wants is her home, her two brothers, and to be able to shoot squirrels to feed them. All she wants is the proof her dad is dead. She doesn't even care to know what happened and who did it. The symbolism of the cold is another thing I loved about this book. I only wished it got colder here in Texas, so I could light a fire in the fireplace (Why we have fireplaces, I will never know. It does get a little chilly in the winter, occasionally), and curl up to read Winter's Bone. The effect the weather has on the novel as it progresses, I thought was perfect. I know some people might think the language in Winter's Bone is forced or exaggerated. But I will tell you, I have lived in Texas all of my life. I was born here, and I guess Ree would call it bred 'n buttered . I have heard many people speak the way it is read in Winter's Bone. It almost kind of felt nice to read a bit about \"The South\", even though this book is about Missouri. It had that feel to it. (And NO....I do NOT have an accent. My in-laws are from Oregon, and they were suprised I don't have one. I think disappointed is more like it. haha!) Daniel Woodrell, the author, wrote this novel very well. He created in me compassion for Ree, and a tension at the prospect of Ree losing the family home. Not many authors can do that with such finesse. I'm almost at a loss as to what else I should say...I just keep thinking about Ree, and her circumstances. This is not a happy, feel-good story. This is a story about a reality many people do not understand, and never want to face. There is a sense of happiness you get at the end for Ree, but at the same time, you're still left with a feeling of despair. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to know more about a bleak lifestyle. But more importantly, I recommend this to anyone who wants to read about a truly admirable hero in a 16 year old girl and to learn why your life doesn't \"suck so badly.\" ...more", "Title": "Winter's Bone"},
