{"Comments": "I really don't know why I keep reading these books. Maybe I'm hoping they'll get back to being as good as the first five books in the series. They were,<---M> I don't know</---M>, cozy .<---F> But not anymore</---F>. The whole point of this book is to deal with the events that happened at the end of Tempted . And really, that's it. It is painfully obvious that P.C. and Kristin Cast threw in that ending so they could cash in on another book resolving that ending. Quite literally, the first 250 pages of this book is every sin I really don't know why I keep reading these books. Maybe I'm hoping they'll get back to being as good as the first five books in the series. They were, I don't know, cozy . But not anymore. The whole point of this book is to deal with the events that happened at the end of Tempted . And really, that's it. It is painfully obvious that P.C. and Kristin Cast threw in that ending so they could cash in on another book resolving that ending. Quite literally, the first 250 pages of this book is every single character expressing their love for Zoey and how they must save her before the earth falls into some dark oblivion. To say the least, it was painfully boring. For the last two books, the Casts, for some reason, have thrown in these God-awful point-of-view changes. I'm all for hearing the story from different characters' points of view. But at least do it for a purpose. The Casts switch from character to character every five pages for no apparent reason . I mean, seriously, if Stevie Rae and Rephaim are in the same room, there's no need to change the POV mid-conversation. Also, almost every character's POV is given. Kalona, Stevie Rae, Zoey, Heath, Stark, Rephaim, and Aphrodite all have their turn up at bat. It was maddening. I understand two or even three POVs, but seven is a little much. Also, this cover is a little too fitting for this book. Stevie Rae (<---B>who was never a favorite of mine anyway</---B>) somehow becomes the main character of the story. I never, ever , thought I would say this, but I missed Zoey's point of view. She probably had ten pages of narration in the book, besides the end. Besides that, it was almost all Stevie Rae (of course, with other POVs randomly peppered in). And what is up with all the pathetically stereotypical characters? This is basically about the whole series, but I thought I could point it out while I'm ranting. First of all, Kramisha. P.C. and Kristin, just because you throw a black character into your book doesn't mean you have to make them sound completely uneducated and idiotic. Seriously, every quote from Kramisha has blatant grammatical errors in it. And why? Because she's supposed to be a \"typical black teenager?\" Please. And also, Jack and Damien's relationship bothers me to no end. I'm all for homosexuality in books (and in general) but don't make it that irritatingly stereotypical. Their relationship is like a rainbow personified. And if I could shoot Jack in the face, I would. Okay, one last thing to rant about. The glaring grammatical errors. Do these people have an editor? There were too many points where they didn't punctuate correctly, didn't punctuate at all, or had random quotation marks in the middle of nowhere. I can accept simple comma errors and the like (don't we all misuse them from time to time?), but they pulled me out of the story. However, the ending was pretty good. Maybe it's because the ending was the only part where anything of substance happened, but still, it saved this book from getting one star. So, overall, this book failed. The only thing it did was solve a conflict the last book created. Nothing new at all. In my opinion, just skip it and read the next book if you feel inclined to do so. You'll catch up very easily. My love for this series has been shot to the ground, so I'm not excited for the next one. But will I buy it? Probably. :/ ...an affinity for electricity ? Seriously?! ...more These books are fine and all but has anyone else realized that there are going to be TWELVE of them in total?! After <+++>Burned</+++> you have Stolen, Burdened, Touched, Cloaked and Wanted. No wonder they are starting to tell the story from multiple perspectives. (Speculation is now at fifteen books). Loving the U.K. cover by the way, disappointed its not Stevie Rae like the U.S. but it will look good on my shelf anyway. Finally, time for me to actually review it. Okay, so this took me a while to read seein These books are fine and all but has anyone else realized that there are going to be TWELVE of them in total?! After <+++>Burned</+++> you have Stolen, Burdened, Touched, Cloaked and Wanted. No wonder they are starting to tell the story from multiple perspectives. (Speculation is now at fifteen books). Loving the U.K. cover by the way, disappointed its not Stevie Rae like the U.S. but it will look good on my shelf anyway. Finally, time for me to actually review it. Okay, so this took me a while to read seeing as I have to study for the state exams the Irish government insist I take. Well, I enjoyed this far more than I thought I would, I really did. I still hate Zoey, and speaking of hate, I despise Damien, Jack, and the Twins too. But now for things I like, Stark for one, and pretty much anything to do with Stevie Rae and Rephaim, I hope that ends well. This book still has the shameless pop culture references and I hate the really over the top \"And I suddenly realised what I must say...\" moments but all in all, its a good book. Lets just hope Rephaim, Stevie Rae and Stark get their happy endings now. Oh, I must also compliment the authors for the research they did, although I obviously don't speak Scottish Gaelic, I definitely recognised the words that are identical to Irish. ...more <---A>P.C. Cast</---A> has gone way beyond the talent she has shown in previous books in her writing of the most recent installment of the House of Night series. The multiple perspectives, introduced in the 6th book worked masterfully in telling this book's unique story. The way that the storyline is told is both surprising as it is breathtaking. There was a point in this book where P.C. Cast tricked me and I absolutely loved it! When the realization hit, I was in awe of how well written the revelation was. P.C. Cast has gone way beyond the talent she has shown in previous books in her writing of the most recent installment of the House of Night series. The multiple perspectives, introduced in the 6th book worked masterfully in telling this book's unique story. The way that the storyline is told is both surprising as it is breathtaking. There was a point in this book where P.C. Cast tricked me and I absolutely loved it! When the realization hit, I was in awe of how well written the revelation was. And satisfyingly enough the reader will be just as challenged as the characters are while reading this book. As a friend once put it, \"these books are like snacks.\" With that comparison, this book is not a snack the way the others are, and it isn't a full course meal either. Instead, it sits the reader down and shows them how to cook. But lets go back to the first 6 books. Because without them, this book wouldn't be nearly as pointed. During the House of Night series, the reader feels a need and demand that the characters learn, make decisions, and grow. Books 1 through 6 hasn't really shown us the volume to which these characters can change. While we know that they have, we haven't ever been as intimate with the characters until this 7th book, where we are forced to look at these multi-dimensional characters and acknowledge the depth of them. Heath, Zoey, Aphrodite, Darius, Stevie-Rae, Rephaim, Stark and the big baddies (Neferet and Kalona) are the main focus and while fans of the Twins and Damien and Jack might be disappointed, the focus on the characters listed is key to this book. What's marvelous about that, though is not all characters are developed in the present, not all are even truly in the book, but each and every character mentioned takes on more meaning and becomes so much more clear than in previous books. Now I'm a huge Stark fan and by the end of this book I don't see how anyone couldn't be, but that's not where I think this review should focus. What's more important is that I'm not a huge Zoey fan. I'm not a huge Heath fan. But by the end of this book I was. Zoey's character changes so much that the reader may expect whiplash yet the story is crafted so that her extraordinary progresses reads naturally. Heath's character is developed simply by reviewing the constants in his relations with everyone in the book. It does not serve to make any reader feel stupid, but rather does cause a reader to stop and think about how Heath really doesn't change so much as our understanding of him did. Stark. Where to even begin. We learn his history, his future and glimpse into his mind in the present all at once while somehow carrying his load for him. His role in this book is so well written and so well played that this character really shines. Those of you interested in Stevie-Rae and the inevitable dilemma of Rephaim will not be disappointed by how this story-line, so loosely and tightly mingled with Zoey's is developed and expressed. And that firecracker Aphrodite? If you think she had a strong voice in all of the rest of the books, her voice is even stronger, if that can even be conceived, in this one. Another spin in the story line helps develop her character in remarkable ways as well. Here are the most important themes of the book: The act of wishing vs. doing, disguise, the power of mistakes, the power that everyone has inside of us born out of the path we choose, and ultimately, the power not so much of free will but more of choice. Every choice in this book counts. ...more I absolutly loved the book before this book. The only problems I had with it were that.................. 1.) Zoey and Stark didn't seem like they got enough time together which made it seem like they were growing apart. 2.) Stark and Zoey need to be together. Period. 3.) I am zo glad Heath died. He was a totally unimportant character. he just got in the way. 4.) How in the fricken world could Zoey DIE????????????? I really hope that in Burned Zoey lives and she ends up with the right person (Sta I absolutly loved the book before this book. The only problems I had with it were that.................. 1.) Zoey and Stark didn't seem like they got enough time together which made it seem like they were growing apart. 2.) Stark and Zoey need to be together. Period. 3.) I am zo glad Heath died. He was a totally unimportant character. he just got in the way. 4.) How in the fricken world could Zoey DIE????????????? I really hope that in Burned Zoey lives and she ends up with the right person (Stark.) ...more I swore to myself that the last House of Night book would be my last. I just couldn't take Zoey and her multiple annoying boyfriends and her just as annoying friends. When Burned came out, I figure \"what the hell, it looks relatively Zoey relationship free\" Well, yes it was relatively that, but I guess BFF Stevie Rae just had to step up and fill Zoey's vacant shoes and have the boyfriend issue, but not with boys, but with a boy and a bird. Sorry, half bird, half man - whatever, he has a friggin I swore to myself that the last House of Night book would be my last. I just couldn't take Zoey and her multiple annoying boyfriends and her just as annoying friends. When Burned came out, I figure \"what the hell, it looks relatively Zoey relationship free\" Well, yes it was relatively that, but I guess BFF Stevie Rae just had to step up and fill Zoey's vacant shoes and have the boyfriend issue, but not with boys, but with a boy and a bird. Sorry, half bird, half man - whatever, he has a friggin beak, he's a bird. But of course there's some hot indian boy hiding in him that I'm sure Nix will turn him into in the next book or 2 so Stevie Rae can also have a hot boy. They all have hot boys, can't leave her out. Can't be a part of House of Night without a hot boy. Can you tell I'm sick of this story and now declare that \"I WILL NOT READ ANOTHER OF THESE STORIES, SO HELP ME GODDESS!\" This book was NOT for me - this series was NOT for me, yet i suffered myself through it as far as i could go. My disclaimer as always, it might not have been for me, but it could be for you - read it and find out, if you can stomach it. ...more Just want to see how the story end. I love this series. I have never felt so connected to a set of characters. Whenever I'm reading one of these books I always feel like I'm right there and that zoey and her gang are my friends. These books bring me happiness, sadness, anger, serenity, & laughter. I always regret finishing one and always enjoy picking up another. I am ecstatic to hear that there are more books to come and even more ecstatic to hear that they are working on making them into films. I say keep up the good work P. I love this series. I have never felt so connected to a set of characters. Whenever I'm reading one of these books I always feel like I'm right there and that zoey and her gang are my friends. These books bring me happiness, sadness, anger, serenity, & laughter. I always regret finishing one and always enjoy picking up another. I am ecstatic to hear that there are more books to come and even more ecstatic to hear that they are working on making them into films. I say keep up the good work P.C. Cast. Keepthe books coming and bring on the movies!! ...more ***SPOILER ALERT!!!*** Zoey's soul is shattered and it will only take two people in her life to save her soul; Heath and of course Stark. To be honest, I pretty tired of the whole 'I can't leave you Heath! I love you!' I was jumping up and down on my bed when Stark finally was part of her life. Aprodite of course was hilarious! It was kind of cool for her to have some parts and see her point of view in this whole mess. We got to know her better and loved her even more. Stevie Ray has a couple of pa ***SPOILER ALERT!!!*** Zoey's soul is shattered and it will only take two people in her life to save her soul; Heath and of course Stark. To be honest, I pretty tired of the whole 'I can't leave you Heath! I love you!' I was jumping up and down on my bed when Stark finally was part of her life. Aprodite of course was hilarious! It was kind of cool for her to have some parts and see her point of view in this whole mess. We got to know her better and loved her even more. Stevie Ray has a couple of parts (most of the book) that shows her point of view and lets us know a little bit about her life. Honestly, with the who Rephaim being a monster, just reminds me of the beauty and the beast. I sort of gotten annoyed with Stevie Ray and her rambling. Erik Night. Idiot. Period. The gay love birds, Damen and Jack, lovely and sweet. Loved them. The Twins? Annoying. Neferet. Can somebody kill her already? Kalona. And avenging fallen angel. Sexy. Hot. Obsessed with Zoey. Is he going to turn good anytime soon? ...more i cant wait till this comes out!! the end was way too suspencefull! ahhhhhhhh! i cant wait till may! To see full review click here . At this point, I can't even make a decent drinking game for these books because they've just gotten so bad and incoherent. So if you want to get drunk off of this one (which I'm sure you do) just get drunk anytime you're wondering what the hell is going on. It's that simple. With that out of the way, let's talk about Burned the seventh shitty installment of the hideous House of Night series. Oh, and if you want to know what the rating is no freaking stars. Because I To see full review click here . At this point, I can't even make a decent drinking game for these books because they've just gotten so bad and incoherent. So if you want to get drunk off of this one (which I'm sure you do) just get drunk anytime you're wondering what the hell is going on. It's that simple. With that out of the way, let's talk about Burned the seventh shitty installment of the hideous House of Night series. Oh, and if you want to know what the rating is no freaking stars. Because I had to go on Wikipedia and review several reviews to get a sense of what was going on and I took Civil freaking Procedure. The concept of personal jurisdiction makes more sense than this shit. So what's the plot: Take any shitty (and yes, that seems to be the word of choice for this review) supernatural show that you'd see on the WB/CW where the TSTL main character goes into limbo and learns that she has to move on and you have this book. Oh, also throw in some culturally offensive Scottish versions of Amazons and add in some side plot with Stevie Rae that no one gives a fuck about and that's the whole book. If you want a less profanity induced summary that is more coherent here's a link to the Wiki Page. Alright, the rest of this installment to this feature is going to be mostly focused on the writing itself. I might talk about some spoilers-regarding the world building- but it will be vague at best because even with the Wiki summary I'm still not sure what I read. I think this was in part because of the random POV changes, the fusion of mythologies that made no freaking sense, and the fact that this whole book just seemed to lack structure. After reading about six of these books, I thought I knew what to expect. Shitty recap chapter with shitty stereotype characters introducing themselves as their respected characters. You follow that by our asshole protagonist (a.k.a. Zoey Montgomery-that's her legal name and I'm sticking to it) having some life crisis that usually involves a boy. We then find out she has six million guys interested in her and the evil teacher is after her for no reason. Stupid dialogue goes on for about four hundred pages (okay really two hundred) and then some Captain Planet shit goes down before we get a stupid ass cliffie before the book ends. This book is.....well, different. You'd think that's a good thing. Because these books are in desperate need of some originality, but no. The Casts version of originality is a scary place on Earth. Honestly, it was a dumb mistake in the first place to put Zoey in limbo. I hate that trope. I really do. Maybe it's because I've watched too many WB/CW shows or daytime soaps but these scenes always come off as contrived and just plain stupid. They're pointless. You know that the characters will always come back from the brink of death because the TV show has to continue and on soaps you'll usually know a month or two before hand whether or not the actor is going to leave or not. And in this case, we know that there are going to be twenty more of these things coming out so Zoey is going to live much to my displeasure. So the whole plot of this book. Pointless and stupid. And if you were a die hard fan of this shit (and there are some people out there who enjoy these books believe it or not) then you're going to be even more confused with what's going on with the eighth installment because you had to wait twice as long to get your cliffhangers resolved. Oh, well, Zoey will probably be obsessing about another boy. And they'll probably throw in Egyptian or Norse mythology just to fuck up everything a little bit more and rape another one of the world's religions for a good measure. Okay, that wasn't the best transition sentence, but I have to talked about the f-ed up mythology in this series. Its something you just can't avoid. I'm all for fusion when it comes to mythologies, but you have to have some reasons for the fusion and you have to explain how they collide instead of randomly throwing them together. In the House of Night they practically throw every religion and mythology you can think about and more often than not they get things wrong about said religion. Like, for instance, the Casts think Catholics worship Mary and view her as a deity. WTF!?!?!?!?! Yes, the Virgin Mary is a prominent figure in the Catholic religion, but she's not viewed as a deity. She's simply the mother of Christ. Honestly, I really get annoyed with this when writers do this because its just pure ignorance and laziness. If you Google it you'll find plenty of Catholic websites that will tell you that the religion does not worship the mother of God. Its not rocket science. Plus, if you talk to a Catholic (and yes, they do exist in Oklahoma) I'm sure they'll tell you this. Sigh..... It's not only the Catholic religion that gets a bashing its any other religion and for that matter culture as well. Another of the recipients: Scotland. The portrayal of Scotland in this book, sort of cement my theory that the Casts are the reason that most people hate America and....well, that they were behind My Immortal (the hilariously bad Harry Potter fan fic). Not only do the Casts decide that they are going to show us how the Scottish talk by writing some interesting dialect that I'm pretty sure is only spoken my illiterate trolls on World of Warcraft, but there's also a rift off of Wonder Woman's home country of Themycira except these Amazons live on the Isle of Skye (somehow I don't think battle armor's going to be comfortable there). Oh, add in a line by Iron Man (better know as the fourth love interest, Stark) \"because I love her\" you'll be having some rather interesting fan fic flashbacks throughout this. Oh, Tara Gillesbie, it's nice to see you did succeed in life. It's sort of sad that I find so many comparisons with that fan fic to this series but they keep popping up. And while at first made these references purely in jest, now I am actually starting to wonder especially after I read this installment. Its not just the ridiculous plot, stupid characters, and dumb ass world building that make this particular installment unbearable, its the multiple changes in POV with massive info dumps that made my head explode. I actually commented, in one of my status updates, that I thought this wasn't the final version. Okay, I know it is the final version of the book. It's been out for a few years now, but it reads like an outline or a draft. I almost wonder if one of the Casts got to caught up in real life if they just cut and paste their notes onto whatever version of the story they were sending to their editor. And their editor had other stuff to deal with (like eating Twinkies) that this got a pass. That's sort of what I think happened. It is the only scenario that makes any sense because honestly this just seemed so half assed. Yes, I get you can successfully use different POVs in novels, but the fact that the first five volumes of this book were written in first person and the sixth was written mostly in third person. This is a huge jump. Maybe it would make more sense if this was a spinoff of the original series. I could actually understand that and maybe all the blanks I was drawing would make some sense but nope....just nope. Honestly, if I wasn't so goal oriented I'd quit doing this to myself already. I'm not enjoying these books. They remind me a lot like Full House. With each progressing installment it gets worse and worse. I am really interested in people who are fans of these books. Why do you like them? Was the seventh installment coherent to you? Have you read My Immortal and are secretly laughing at the fact that you know who the real Tara Gillesbie is? Whatever. You guys know I'm going to read the next one. And I'll probably be ranting about it more than I did about this one. But really if you like these books skip this one, you're not missing much except stupid limbo scenes and offensive religious and ethnic stereotypes. ...more LADIDAAA TIME TO REVIEW HOUSE OF NIGHT N\u00daMERO SIETE (and for those of you that are very Spanish-deprived, that means #7). God, I love these books. Actually, I hate them. I just love reviewing them because they are so utterly ridiculous. And I love reading them because \u2026\u00a0they are so, utterly ridiculous. I have been told that there will be 15 in the series, so we are not even halfway through yet. WA-HOOO! Although how they're going to manage to keep the plot running for that long, I have no idea. LADIDAAA TIME TO REVIEW HOUSE OF NIGHT N\u00daMERO SIETE (and for those of you that are very Spanish-deprived, that means #7). God, I love these books. Actually, I hate them. I just love reviewing them because they are so utterly ridiculous. And I love reading them because \u2026\u00a0they are so, utterly ridiculous. I have been told that there will be 15 in the series, so we are not even halfway through yet. WA-HOOO! Although how they're going to manage to keep the plot running for that long, I have no idea. Nothing ever happens in them anyway, though, so I guess it's okay. Alrighty so, the plot of this one: Stupid Zoey is temporarily dead and hanging out in the Otherworld with stupid Heath. Stupid stupid stupid. No one cares about them because they suck. Although I guess I should care, because Zoey is the main character. But I'm sorry. I hate her to pieces. Meanwhile, Zoey's somewhat less-stupid friends are trying to figure out a way to get her back out of her vegetable-like state. (Although why they don't want to keep her that way \u2026 beats me.) Stevie Rae has, like Zoey\u2013\u2013her BFF (as the Casts insist on calling her \u2026 *gag*)\u2013\u2013become a total slut. She has this thing with Raphaim, who is a decent character and all, except he has a freaky bird-head\u2013\u2013and I mean that literally, not referring to the size of his brain. But then she also has her stupid vampire boyfriend Dallas, who she randomly has sex with on a kitchen floor after they bury a bunch of dead kids (\u2026\u00a0okay?). Aphrodite (who is now my favorite character, by far) is now all \"I AM NYX'S PROPHET\" which is pretty cool. I love Darius, too, btw. They are like the only good couple in the whole series. ANYWAY. Stark feels responsible for Zoey's sort-of death and wants to help get her back from the Otherworld\u2013\u2013only problem is, he'd have to die to get there and they only have a week before Zoey dies for real. OH NO. Alrighty so \u2026\u00a0blah blah blah I think you get the basic gist of the plot. Basically not much happens, except Zoey sits around in the Otherworld with Heath being whiny and obnoxious. Stupid stupid Heath won't even go away when he'd DEAD for goodness sake. He is still his stupid puppy-dog self, being all like \"Zoeeeyyy stay in the Otherworld with meeee and we can be together foreverrrrr!!!\" It's like \"Uh, hello? Have you noticed that you are FREAKING DEAD?\" What an idiot. Meh. And then Zoey is all like, \"Oookaaayyyy. I don't really want to deal with my real-life problems anyway. TEEHEE!\" What a selfish bitch. (Pardon my French.) Zoey starts to see all the \"pieces\" of herself leaving bit by bit \u2026\u00a0meaning, she sees all these random versions of herself prancing about in the Otherworld. (I know, I know. More than one Zoey? I want to die, too.) So, first off she meets her nine-year-old self, who is supposedly her \"joy\". Nine-year-old Zoey just looks at her future self and says, \"WE HAS BOOBIES. TEEHEES.\" Then goes on to tell a story about some girl in her third-grade class who's initials are BRA (TEEHEES.) So, what have we learned from this? Zoey gets her \"joy\" out of being shallow and laughing at other people's expense? Oh, what a surprise! Then Zoey meets up with this weird warrior chick, who is her strength. And whose name is Brighid. O_O AACKKK. So, if my name had an extra H in it \u2026\u00a0I would be Zoey's strength. EEW. Stevie Rae doesn't do anything of much interest except prance around being slutty and summoning giant demon bulls out of the ground. (I don't really get it, either.) Stark \u2026\u00a0Eh. I don't have much against him, besides the fact that he actually likes Zoey. God knows why. Why does ANYONE like her, for crying out loud? The main problem with Stark though is that he is pretty \u2026 bland. I used to like him, but now he's kind of taken on that stupid, over-dedicated boyfriend role. Plus he pretends to be better than everyone else all the time. So it's like \u2026 Okay, shut up. But he will probably be the one who ends up with Zoey, considering he is the least asshat-ish and not dead. Well, actually he is dead, technically. But, you know what I mean. SO other random issues. I think I've totally bashed P.C. and Kristin Cast's writing style(s) before. The spelling of \"vampyre\", the use of the \"BFF\", the use of random pop culture references that will make the books completely irrelevant in like two years (In this one there were random references to \"True Blood\" and \"Glee\" \u2026 yeah, I know. Glee references in House of Night? Something is wrong with this picture \u2026). I don't know if I've mentioned that I also hate the way they write dialogue\u2013\u2013Especially Stevie Rae, Kramisha, and \u2026 that random dude they met in Scotland. Stevie Rae's \"bumpkin\" talk, Kramisha's borderline racist \"black talk\", and Scotland-guy's \"accent\" that made his dialogue almost impossible to read \u2026\u00a0Yeah. It all gives me a bit of a headache. At this point, there's not really much of a point trying to analyze the plot or the characters any further, since I've tried before and \u2026\u00a0it just doesn't work. It's like, screw it. These books make no sense and are stupid and I want to throw them out a window. \u2026 Will I read the next book? Hell yes. ...more The first few books in this series were good. They were fun, easy reads and guilty-pleasure material. The last few books have been a chore to read, though. While the characters were not as annoying in this book (due to Zoey not really being present) the writing was irritating. I did not understand the reason for switching narrators every few pages. It added nothing to the story and broke it up too much. I have never been a fan of the Kalona plot which was particularly boring in this book. I real The first few books in this series were good. They were fun, easy reads and guilty-pleasure material. The last few books have been a chore to read, though. While the characters were not as annoying in this book (due to Zoey not really being present) the writing was irritating. I did not understand the reason for switching narrators every few pages. It added nothing to the story and broke it up too much. I have never been a fan of the Kalona plot which was particularly boring in this book. I really like Aphrodite as a character and I think it's a shame she's been pushed to the side and treated so badly by the other characters. I keep reading these books in hopes that they'll return to what they were at the start but I'm not sure how likely that is. ...more Burned is one of those books that you either adore, you shrug your shoulders at, or you loathe with the white hot intensity of a thousand suns. In my opinion, compared to other HoN books, Burned was a let down, but I didn't want to burn--pardon the pun--it or anything. It did have its moments like Stevie Rae and Rephaim romance and the mythology but nothing really...happened. Zoey was restored, that's about the only thing I could get from this book. By the end of it I just felt cheated almost. T Burned is one of those books that you either adore, you shrug your shoulders at, or you loathe with the white hot intensity of a thousand suns. In my opinion, compared to other HoN books, Burned was a let down, but I didn't want to burn--pardon the pun--it or anything. It did have its moments like Stevie Rae and Rephaim romance and the mythology but nothing really...happened. Zoey was restored, that's about the only thing I could get from this book. By the end of it I just felt cheated almost. The last fifty pages was the only redeeming thing that reminded why I bothered to read the series in the first place. I have never been a big fan of HoN to begin with, but I did find them to be short, exciting reads for a rainy day. It took me a while to figure out what was bothering me so much about this book and why it took me so long to finish it. The others I whipped through in two days time, but this one seemed to drag on. I finally realized what was wrong after really thinking about the book as a whole and I narrowed my problems with it down to three major things. 1. The switching of point-of-views. This series started out with a very distinct first-person point-of-view with Zoey. Now while Zoey was by no means a ground-breaking character, I have to admit she kept things interesting and having one main focus provided the earlier books with a smooth chapter-by-chapter flow. With multiple point-of-views you can't have that smooth flow. I get why they did it, but I think that if they knew they were going to start this, use it for all of the books, not just the later ones. And narrow the narrators down to three or two, because with every character getting a turn, it's too sporadic. As soon as you get to something good with one character, you're forced to go see what another is doing only to spend the first few pages playing catch-up. Then, once things get interesting with that character, it's back we go to another and more catch-up. While Zoey was annoying and groan-worthy sometimes, you never had to play catch-up when it was just about her. Another thing is, some of the character simply to have the chops to be center stage. They're at their best as secondary characters. Stark in particular got underneath my skin. I loved him the first books and then began to wonder why I did in this book. It wasn't until the very end did I start to like him again as he gained the cockiness and loyalty he has through Zoey's eyes. He losses a bit of edge when we have him as the narrator. 2. The \"Bad\" Guys I'm confused; is Kalona good or evil? I thought by the end of Tempted that we had established he was evil, but that seems to be contradicted in this book. He hypes about feeling something like guilt and regret while in the Otherworld chasing after Zoey, yet the next thing we know, he's beating Stark to a pulp. I have a feeling he's going to be redeemed somehow and yet I just kind of want him to move on and do it already. Choose Light or Darkness; quit swaying in the middle for who knows how long. Again, I think he's one of thos characters that's better as a secondary. When we're in his head, we're as confused as he is. Neferet also bothered me. I don't get how she could stand before the Vampyre High Council and not have one of them sense the Darkness that she seems to have immersed herself in. Also, I'm a little lost as to why she turned to Darkness. I get that she wants power, but I've forgotten why she wants power so bad. Her motivations seem cloudly and kind of cliched to me (when going with the whole ruling the world thing). Does she want power simply to have power? I would've liked to be in her head rather than Kalona's because she's the true evil here. Or at least, that's what I was lead to believe by the end of this back. Still wondering about Kalona... 3. The Romance--or Lack Thereof Yes, we had Stevie Rae and Rephaim as our main couple focus this time around and, yes, I thought their story was the best thing about this book, but, in the end, nothing really changed between them. Rephaim is still denying his love for her and while Stevie Rae seems to have accepted him, it feels almost forced. Plus, with Rephaim having a beak and being birdman, I don't see how their relationship could progress past the Beauty and the Beast stage. I have a feeling he's going to turn human or something in the future books, but I would've liked him to make his choice already seeing as the whole book was leading up to that: him choosing Stevie Rae over Darkness. I felt Dallas's whole flip-flop to the evil side seemed out of character for him, though I can understand where he's coming what with Stevie Rae continuing to lie to him and all. Aphrodite and Darius were barely in the book and we only caught snipets of their relationship. And finally that brings me to Zoey and Stark. I've always liked Stark. He seemed like a good match for Zoey, not too posessive like Erik and not too (how do I put this nicely?) ignorant like Heath. And while Stark went to the ends of the Earth to bring Zoey back, we weren't rewarded with any real connection between the two of them until the very end. While I was beating my head against a wall along with the rest of the folks that were eye-rolling at Zoey's three guys issue, I did find it interesting how each of her relationships were protrayed in a different light. I'm not saying I liked it, but it was interesting to read. What I'm trying to say here, is that all of the relationships never really progressed to the next stage. (I don't mean like third or second base.) I mean I want a relationship in the book to actually grow and remain stable. With all the flip-flopping of guys in the book, we never really got that. It's the same relationship with different people dragged through the same steps. I want to see characters develop through these relationships and actually learn from one another, get to a new level of trusting each other. Not just remain in the same \"I love you and you love me, let's kiss.\" With Heath and Erik out of the way, I'm hoping to get that in the next book with Zoey and Stark. Basically what I want is some memorable, romantic scenes that make me think, \"They belong together.\" and would make me start rooting for them to stay together. I'm not getting that feeling from any of the couples so far. So, in summary, the book is readable and is alright for hard-core fans, but won't do much to sway the \"meh\" and \"OMG I hate this series!\" people. Will I be reading the next book? Absolutely, just to see where this goes. ...more The House of Night Series is filled with drama. At times I feel im reading a teenage soap-opera. But It is highly addicting. And as the series continue I feel that each books gets darker and each of the characters get more entangled in conflicts but they mature. I specially started to enjoy the series more when the different point of views of the characters started to appear. I found that Aphrodite, Stevie Rae and Stark are complex and interesting characters. In the beginning I found Stevie Rae The House of Night Series is filled with drama. At times I feel im reading a teenage soap-opera. But It is highly addicting. And as the series continue I feel that each books gets darker and each of the characters get more entangled in conflicts but they mature. I specially started to enjoy the series more when the different point of views of the characters started to appear. I found that Aphrodite, Stevie Rae and Stark are complex and interesting characters. In the beginning I found Stevie Rae an annoying character but after tempted I started falling for her and I absolutely loved her in Burned. Burned is by far the best book in the series so far. (SPOILER ALERT) I found Rephaim and Stevie Rae's story to be far more interesting than Zoey's. Don't get me wrong I still love Zoey and Stark but Stevie Rae/ Rephaim go through something so beautiful gradually. Its like the beauty and the beast story. I'm hoping Rephaim turns human and gets together with Stevie Rae! Love them!!! ...more i know its going to be good!but does anybody think that p.c cast should release the first chapter? pleeeaaasse? When the book blurb is that long, it\u2019s a bit redundant for me to reiterate what happened isn\u2019t it? ha. Zoey is trapped in the Otherworld due to her soul shattering when Heath is killed by Kalona. Parts of her soul are scattered & all of her friends must work to first make her give up Heath & two put the pieces of herself back together before her body dies. In the meantime, Neferet has put Kalona in a trance like state to make sure Zoey dies. Then we have Stevie Ray dealing with her feelin When the book blurb is that long, it\u2019s a bit redundant for me to reiterate what happened isn\u2019t it? ha. Zoey is trapped in the Otherworld due to her soul shattering when Heath is killed by Kalona. Parts of her soul are scattered & all of her friends must work to first make her give up Heath & two put the pieces of herself back together before her body dies. In the meantime, Neferet has put Kalona in a trance like state to make sure Zoey dies. Then we have Stevie Ray dealing with her feelings for Rephaim in Tulsa & the other red fledglings who are causing all sorts of trouble. I have to tell you all the honest truth, I did not enjoy this book at all. A few times I almost put it down & gave up on it. I found there were too many POV\u2019s & it just didn\u2019t flow properly in my head since they just jumped around. There\u2019s Zoey, but she\u2019s off as her souls shattered, Stark, Stevie Ray, Kalona & sometimes we hear from Heath & Aphrodite. I usually enjoy multiple POV\u2019s & I like the House of Night Series, but this was just too much IMO. It was so choppy, you forgot what the heck that person before POV was, add to that excessive swearing that there was no need for. And if you weren\u2019t already confused by the multiple POV\u2019s, lets throw in Scottland so we can use the dialect. Lovely. The pace? Wait what pace? Snails crawl faster, honestly it was slow going. I read pretty fast, but this took me 5 days to read because it didn\u2019t seem to be going anywhere. It was more filler than substance & plot, I get it save Zoey. On top of it, this is a teen series but the language used was more tailored to pre-teens. It\u2019s repetitive & everything is explained over & over again which makes the reader feel uneducated or unable to grasp what the authors were talking about. While the HoN series was always repetitive (the Twins anyone?) this is an all new level of irritation for me. The cake at the end? Nothing was resolved. Either way, I am Burned & done with this series. I really can\u2019t put it any nicer. ...more 3.5 Sterne First off the cover..... Awsome. the title....... Awsome....... This book is gonna test Zoey, Stevie Rae, and Aphrodite. See if Zoey can overcome the terrible events that took a deadly toll on her. If Stevie Rae can find the strenght and courge to put those red Flegding in line, and find a way to save Zoey From the Otherworld? If Aphrodite can manage the sudden pressure of Nyx is putting on her. By talking to her, Whether Aphrodite want it or not? Three girls\u2026 playing with fire\u2026 if they don\u2019t wa First off the cover..... Awsome. the title....... Awsome....... This book is gonna test Zoey, Stevie Rae, and Aphrodite. See if Zoey can overcome the terrible events that took a deadly toll on her. If Stevie Rae can find the strenght and courge to put those red Flegding in line, and find a way to save Zoey From the Otherworld? If Aphrodite can manage the sudden pressure of Nyx is putting on her. By talking to her, Whether Aphrodite want it or not? Three girls\u2026 playing with fire\u2026 if they don\u2019t watch out, everyone will get Burned.......... the HOUSE OF NIGHT booke series!!! Books (Everything after Burned Im not 100% those are the right titles. oh well hahaha) The following H.O.N books in order: -Marked, 1st Book -Betrayed , 2nd Book -Chosen, 3rd Book -Untamed, 4th Book -Hunted, 5th Book -Tempted, 6th Book -Burned, 7th Book (April 27, 2010) -Stolen, 8th Book -Burdened, 9th Book -Touched, 10th Book -Cloaked, 11th Book -Wanted, 12th Book ...more I was eagerly anticipating this book, but it is clear after reading it that the authors are merely dragging this story out for profit instead of the work itself. While the other six previous novels were paced well, this book drags. The idiotic and sterotypical language in this book is extremely annoying. The many different points of view border on the absurd. I can see introducing a couple of new povs, but everyone almost has a pov in this story and it leapfrogs between them. You knew form early I was eagerly anticipating this book, but it is clear after reading it that the authors are merely dragging this story out for profit instead of the work itself. While the other six previous novels were paced well, this book drags. The idiotic and sterotypical language in this book is extremely annoying. The many different points of view border on the absurd. I can see introducing a couple of new povs, but everyone almost has a pov in this story and it leapfrogs between them. You knew form early on in the book how Zoey's dilemma was going to be resolved so tension in the rest of the book suffers. I like the scenes between Rephaim and Stevie Rae, but overall just found the book lacking. Hopefully the next book will be better. ...more Wow! From the first word to the last this book is filled with action and suspense. Such a wonderful new chapter in the House of Night saga. I loved the multiple POV's and the intricate storylines flowing through the book. How what we assumed in past volumes is turned showing that while Zoey is essentially the main character we are shown that it isn't just about her, but about the group and all the decisions and choices they make. How these combined choices form the world around them and will ult Wow! From the first word to the last this book is filled with action and suspense. Such a wonderful new chapter in the House of Night saga. I loved the multiple POV's and the intricate storylines flowing through the book. How what we assumed in past volumes is turned showing that while Zoey is essentially the main character we are shown that it isn't just about her, but about the group and all the decisions and choices they make. How these combined choices form the world around them and will ultimately lead to their success or their failure. Even after the seventh book, this series is still so fresh and addictive and I can't wait to see what happens next! ...more We\u2019re back with our fourth and last book in this Month of House of Night, Burned. Praise Jesus and high-five Jenova you guys, this is it! One more review and we\u2019re done for as long as I can keep putting a return to this series off. Let\u2019s get this shit over with! So when we last left Zoey, her soul had been inexplicably \u201cshattered\u201d upon witnessing the death of her childhood boytoy, Heath. In a refreshing change of pace, Burned picks up not moments after the end of Tempted, but moments before! Woo, We\u2019re back with our fourth and last book in this Month of House of Night, Burned. Praise Jesus and high-five Jenova you guys, this is it! One more review and we\u2019re done for as long as I can keep putting a return to this series off. Let\u2019s get this shit over with! So when we last left Zoey, her soul had been inexplicably \u201cshattered\u201d upon witnessing the death of her childhood boytoy, Heath. In a refreshing change of pace, Burned picks up not moments after the end of Tempted, but moments before! Woo, shaking up the formula! We open on Kalona, giving a boring mental monologue as he prepares to snap Heath\u2019s neck. [Kalona] would not allow anything or anyone to get in his way, and this human boy was standing between him and what he desired. He didn\u2019t particularly want to kill the boy; he didn\u2019t particularly want the boy alive, either. It was a simple necessity. He didn\u2019t feel remorse or regret. As had been the norm during the centuries since he\u2019d fallen, Kalona felt very little. Craaaaaaaaaaaawling in my skiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin. Christ, Kalona, get a LiveJournal. I\u2019m also side-eying that \u201cdidn\u2019t particularly want to kill the boy\u201d line \u2013 I feel like it\u2019s meant to soften the blow of what he\u2019s doing, as though a supposed lack of active malice on Kalona\u2019s part somehow makes killing the target of your sexual aggression\u2019s boyfriend less terrible. Anyway, he means to murder Heath on the dl, but as we already know, Zoey shows up. She knocks him off the wall into the ocean with her big ball o\u2019spirit, and for a moment, Kalona considers letting himself drown and bringing this terrible series to an end, because oh no, Zoey knows he killed her boyfriend and really for real hates him now, what a completely unforseeable consequence of his actions! But of course, we\u2019ve still got like six books to go, so before he can do us all a favor, he feels Zoey\u2019s soul shatter, and\u2013 Not Zoey! He\u2019d never meant to cause her harm. Even through all of Neferet\u2019s machinations, through all of the Tsi Sgili\u2019s manipulations and plans, he\u2019d held tight to the knowledge that, in spite of everything, he would use his vast immortal powers to keep Zoey safe because ultimately she was the closest he could come to Nyx in this realm \u2014 and this was the only realm left to him. And this is where even Kalona starts actively participating in the \u201clet\u2019s blame Neferet for everything\u201d sham Cast is trying to shape this into. In fact, if this chapter had a subtitle, it would be: No Really Guys, Even Kalona Thinks This is All Neferet\u2019s Fault, and Also She is the Worst. It\u2019s all about attempting to illustrate the dynamic between Neferet and Kalona \u2013 that Kalona is a sad, wounded woobie who\u2019s making bad choices out of the completely sympathetic motivators of defiance, bitterness, and frustrated sexual longing, while Neferet is the root of all bitchy-bitch evil who\u2019s scheming and machinating and in league with the devil and in over her head. \u201cNo, I don\u2019t imagine any of them felt it,\u201d Neferet continued, in her coldest, most calculating voice. \u201cNone of them are connected to Darkness, to you, as I am. Is that not so, my love?\u201d \u201cWe are uniquely connected,\u201d Kalona managed, though he suddenly wished the words were not true. That\u2019s the dynamic in a nutshell: Neferet, so ~cold~ and ~calculating~, plying Kalona with her ~love talk~ and Kalona squishing himself up against the door on the opposite side of the car like \u201cI AM REGRETTING MY DECISION TO RIDE WITH YOU SO HARD RIGHT NOW.\u201d It\u2019s meant to make us more sympathetic to Kalona, I guess, because he\u2019s just an angry child going along with Neferet\u2019s plan, but really it just makes him a less respectable villain. On the flip side, this chapter got damn close to making me Team Neferet. Seriously, I could get down with Neferet as a villain, for the exact traits that Cast is using to try and demonize her: she\u2019s aggressive, she\u2019s calculating, she\u2019s power-hungry and sexual, and she has no problem using the narrative\u2019s precious woobie as a tool to further her ambitions. She\u2019s everything that House of Night tells us a \u2018good woman\u2019 shouldn\u2019t be, and you know your series morality is fucked when the much-maligned epitome of evil is easier to root for than your goddess-blessed protagonist. Clearly Neferet has just recently recognized how utterly fucked this world is. I\u2019m sure if I had to spend centuries among these idiotic characters, serving this terrible goddess, I\u2019d want to burn it all down, too. That said, even putting aside all of Cast\u2019s awful evil-woman coding, I still can\u2019t bring myself to completely get on board with Neferet as a character, mostly because of her romantic rivalry with Zoey. Fighting with a teenager over who draws the biggest boner out of some piece of shit immortal rapist? You can keep it. That\u2019s one misogynistic trope too many. Anyway, Kalona explains that Zoey\u2019s spirit is shattered and she\u2019s basically dead, forget about her, baby, but Neferet isn\u2019t buying it. \u201cOne would think it would be a death sentence,\u201d Neferet spoke calmly as she drew more and more of the inky threads to her, \u201cbut Zoey has a terribly inconvenient habit of surviving. This time I am going to ensure she dies.\u201d \u201cZoey\u2019s soul also has a habit of reincarnating,\u201d he said, purposefully baiting Neferet to try to throw off her focus. I mean, once, it\u2019s done that once, and it took thousands of years. I wouldn\u2019t call that a \u2018habit\u2019. Neferet wants to make sure Kalona finishes the job, so she takes advantage of his weakened state and uses ~the power of Darkness~ to send his spirit into the Otherworld to end Zoey once and for all. See what I mean? Relatable motivations and goals, man. Kalona\u2019s not super thrilled, because being in the ~spirit realm~ too long could damage his body or some shit, but Neferet has zero fucks to give. \u201cThen you will have to be sure you finish your task soon, so that you may return to your lovely immortal body before it is irreparably damaged.\u201d [Neferet] smiled seductively at him. \u201cI would very much dislike it if anything happened to your body, my love.\u201d \u201cNeferet, don\u2019t do this. You are putting into motion things that will require payment, the consequences of which even you will not want to face.\u201d Yeah, that\u2019s the other thing. They\u2019re bringing up this idea that Neferet has bitten off more than she can chew, and that it\u2019s going to come back and bite her in the ass in the end, because god forbid we have a female villain who\u2019s competent and in control and at the top of the food chain. Nah, she\u2019s gotta be a naive little girl who\u2019s ~playing with forces she doesn\u2019t understand~. Ugh, you can keep that, too. Kalona stared at her, understanding that Neferet was utterly, truly mad, and wondering why that madness only served to feed her power and intensify her beauty. Okay 1) gross, and 2) do you get it yet, guys? Neferet is so evil that even KALONA thinks she\u2019s lost her shit! I hope you understand now who the TRUE VILLAIN of this series is, because it\u2019s definitely not the immortal rapist, nope! It\u2019s the nasty lady who uses her vagina for sex! Moving on, we get this awkward-as-fuck motivation dump from Kalona, while somewhere in Hell, the Robot Devil sobs. Kalona knew she was playing on his weaknesses. Silently, he cursed himself for allowing her to have learned too much about his deepest desires. He\u2019d trusted her, so Neferet knew that because he wasn\u2019t Erebus he could never truly rule beside Nyx in the Otherworld, and he was driven to re-create as much of what he\u2019d lost here in this modern world. Neferet uses it to prod Kalona into action, evoking his one respectable line in the entire chapter: \u201cI choose to rule. I will always choose to rule,\u201d he said without hesitation. Seriously, I\u2019ll take ambitious, remorselessly evil shithead villains over pity-me woobies any goddamn day of the week. Finally, he and Neferet make the poorly-worded contract that will undoubtedly factor in to his redemption endgame. When Neferet continued, her voice was magnified, swollen with power. \u201cIt is your own choice that I have sealed this oath by blood with Darkness, but should you fail me and break it\u2014\u201d \u201cI will not fail.\u201d Her smile was unworldly in its beauty; her eyes roiled with blood. \u201cIf you, Kalona, Fallen Warrior of Nyx, break this oath and fail in my sworn quest to destroy <---C>Zoey Redbird</---C>, fledgling High Priestess of Nyx, I shall hold dominion over your spirit for as long as you are an immortal.\u201d Loop, meet hole. I think we can all see where this is going. Thus concludes our time with the villains, catapulting Kalona out of the story until literally the last couple of chapters. Yeah,despite what the set-up would have you believing, Burned isn\u2019t so much about Zoey re-assembling the shattered fragments of her soul in the Otherworld as it is giving Cast the opportunity to retcon a bunch of bastardized Celtic and vaguely Taoist concepts into this already mythologically confused world, via dual plotlines that follow Stevie Rae&Co in Oklahoma, and Stark et al. in Italy and Scotland. We kick off the story proper in Oklahoma, where Stevie Rae is roused from sleeping off the rooftop deep-fry she got at the end of Tempted to hear the \u201cbad\u201d news about Zoey. \u201cZoey\u2019s not dead, but she saw Kalona kill Heath. She tried to stop him and couldn\u2019t. It shattered her, Stevie Rae.\u201d Tears had started to leak down Lenobia\u2019s porcelain cheeks. \u201cShattered her? What does that mean?\u201d \u201cIt means her body still breathes, but her soul is gone. When a High Priestess\u2019s soul is shattered, it is only a matter of time before her body fades from this world, too.\u201d Okay, I know House of Night is a series of ass-pulls and hand-waving when it comes to why and how things happen, but seriously, did we get ANY foreshadowing or background whatsoever on this whole \u201cshattering\u201d thing before it happened to Zoey? All I remember was that one line from the poem about being shattered and believing or some shit, so I feel like I\u2019m pretty justified in feeling like this phenomenon came out of nowhere. Yet according to all the good vampires of House of Night volume seven, this is a relatively normal occurrence. It happens often enough that everyone knows what it is and what it means, and there\u2019s an established history with several case studies to refer to. People\u2019s souls just rip themselves from their bodies on a regular basis, price of being a vampire, right? Dragon Lankford spoke from the open doorway to the infirmary room. His strong face was drawn and haggard with the newness of the loss of his mate, but his voice was calm and sure. \u201cIt\u2019s about the fact that Zoey faced a grief she could not bear. And I do understand something about grief. When it shatters a soul, the path to return to the body is broken, and without the infilling of spirit, our bodies die.\u201d Also, can we just all take a moment to appreciate that Dragon Lankford saw his wife of literal centuries murdered in front of him and didn\u2019t explode into a million pieces, but Zoey saw her high school boyfriend killed and hit the eject button immediately? At any rate, Stevie Rae decides that her first course of action is to talk to Rephaim, because when she was super-sadfaced and crying over Zoey\u2019s situation earlier, he used his vaguely-defined immortal birdman powers to comfort her and call her to him. Plus, as Kalona\u2019s right hand man and a former spirit himself, she figures he\u2019s her best source for gathering some useful spirit-world-and-Darkness-related information. This is the Default Excuse that the book gives Stevie Rae so that she can continue her relationship with Rephaim, which plays out almost exactly the same way every time she gets a chapter. She sneaks away from House of Night against someone\u2019s wishes, and meets up with Rephaim to pump him for \u201cinformation\u201d. They get a few lovey-dovey scenes, fight over something or another, and then one or both leave in a huff, acting like they\u2019ve broken up forever. Wash, rinse, repeat every three chapters. But for this particular meeting, Stevie Rae is content nursing her horrifying birdman fetish. Rephaim continued to stare at her until it felt to Stevie Rae as if he was looking through her body and directly into her soul. She couldn\u2019t look away, though, and the longer their gazes met, the harder it was for her to hold on to her anger. His eyes were just so human. BUT HIS BODY IS JUST SO BIRD! I love love love how the book very pointedly avoids mentioning Rephaim\u2019s bird torso. They talk about his eyes, his human arms and legs, even his wings sometimes, but there\u2019s jack shit about the beak, the creepy bird tongue, or his horizontally-oriented, bird-shaped body. Nada. Because then we would realize even more clearly that this is fuckin\u2019 weird. Anyway, they get to chit-chatting, and Rephaim jumps hard on the \u201cblame Neferet\u201d train. \u201cNeferet seduces my father and pretends to be his mate, but the only thing she really cares for is herself. Where he is filled with anger, she is filled with hatred. Hatred is a more dangerous ally.\u201d Christ, what a meaningless differentiation to toss in there. \u201cOh, sure, Kalona\u2019s angry and a rapist, but That Bitch Neferet hates people, that\u2019s super dangerous.\u201d WE GET IT, NEFERET IS WORSE THAN KALONA, YOU CAN STOP MAKING UP BULLSHIT JUSTIFICATIONS FOR THAT NOW, THANKS. Together, they suss out what Neferet\u2019s done with her poorly-worded genie contract, Rephaim just happening to have all of the relevant information to lead him to the correct explanation, because fuck it. Rephaim shook his head. \u201cFather will never believe Zoey won\u2019t eventually choose him. A-ya did, and part of the maiden still lives within Zoey\u2019s soul.\u201d He paused, and before Stevie Rae could ask her next question, added, \u201cBut I know how you can be certain. If Neferet is using him, she will have Father\u2019s body bound by Darkness.\u201d And then, and then you guys, Stevie Rae has what is quite possibly the dumbest line in this entire fucking series. Are you ready for it? Rephaim shook his head. \u201cFather will never believe Zoey won\u2019t eventually choose him. A-ya did, and part of the maiden still lives within Zoey\u2019s soul.\u201d He paused, and before Stevie Rae could ask her next question, added, \u201cBut I know how you can be certain. If Neferet is using him, she will have Father\u2019s body bound by Darkness.\u201d \u201cDarkness? You mean like the opposite of light?\u201d Darkness, you mean like the opposite of light? Darkness, you mean like the opposite of light? Darkness, you mean like the opposite of light? I\u2019m dead. I\u2019m dead, my brain has shattered, and I\u2019ve gone to the Otherworld, a magical land where things are heavenly and perfect and House of Night doesn\u2019t exist, and people don\u2019t say such extraordinarily dumb things, and I can die in peace don\u2019t come for me. My resentful resurrection + more words + at You're Killing.Us ...more Burned by another lackluster installment In book seven of the House of Night series, BURNED(House of Night Novels), the reader returns to the cliffhanger ending of the last book where Kalona has killed Heath, Zoey's soul has shattered, and now Zoey and Heath are together in the Otherworld. With Zoey gone and the prediction looming that she will die permanently within seven days unless her soul is restored, her friends and colleagues must devise a way to bring her back. Stevie Rae is also continui Burned by another lackluster installment In book seven of the House of Night series, BURNED(House of Night Novels), the reader returns to the cliffhanger ending of the last book where Kalona has killed Heath, Zoey's soul has shattered, and now Zoey and Heath are together in the Otherworld. With Zoey gone and the prediction looming that she will die permanently within seven days unless her soul is restored, her friends and colleagues must devise a way to bring her back. Stevie Rae is also continuing to deal with the rogue Red Fledglings and her need to hide Rephaim, all while new manifestations of evil surround them. Despite my claim that I wasn't going to buy this book after the disappointment of TEMPTED(House of Night, Book 6), I went ahead and did so; unfortunately, this book failed to improve over it. Pacing was dreadfully slow for the first 270 pages, and within the first 60 pages, readers can easily discern the plot and outcome of the book. The writing tries too hard and fails with repetitive phrases and similes/metaphors that don't work. Typos abound. The use of slang, unrealistic \"teen talk,\" racist and homosexual stereotypes, and dated references continue. The \"nerd herd,\" Erik, and other characters become insignificant, and there are character inconsistencies in others like Zoey and Heath. Like TEMPTED, Zoey's perspective is written in first-person, while everyone else is in third-person. Even though third-person is typically an omniscient narrator, the authors tried to change the voice of the third-person narrator to match that of each character, and it comes across clumsily. Given the limited focus on Zoey, the book could have easily and more smoothly been written in all third-person and without the need for chapter headings with each character's name; the authors should know that readers are smart enough to figure out the scene changes without names, just like in other books. On the positive side, the final 50 pages were fast-paced and interesting. Stevie Rae, Rephaim, and Stark show significant character development, and Stevie Rae and Rephaim's evolving connection was by far the most interesting part of the book. Though some may miss the focus on Zoey, I liked the shift because it gave new life to the other characters. Cast and Cast also delve into an expanded mythology, and the book ends on much less of a cliffhanger than the last installment. Even with these problems, I know that I'll likely pick up the eighth book when it comes out. I just hope that my curiosity doesn't get the better of me and that I have the strength to save my money and wait until it comes to the library. ...more It took abit of time from reading Tempted to Burned. And if you cried in Tempted. You will die in burned. No but I cried and cried and cried. I would say one of the best books in this gener. Zoey has a hard time right now. Heath is in 'otherland' with zoey and the wrong thing is that his dead and shes not. Her friends tries to bring her spirit back to 'earth' but they cant see how. Zoeys warrior, James Stark is broken in pieces because he think that this is his fault. So they search through old bo It took abit of time from reading Tempted to Burned. And if you cried in Tempted. You will die in burned. No but I cried and cried and cried. I would say one of the best books in this gener. Zoey has a hard time right now. Heath is in 'otherland' with zoey and the wrong thing is that his dead and shes not. Her friends tries to bring her spirit back to 'earth' but they cant see how. Zoeys warrior, James Stark is broken in pieces because he think that this is his fault. So they search through old books about a warrior bringing back his High Priestess. But all they find out is that all warriors succeded to come to the 'otherland' but the mission to come there was to hard so they died. So it all ended up with both of them died. But Stark, a young hot warrior, find a way to not die but still get there. This book was beautiful written. Full of disire and also heart breaking in the end. ...more If I weren't embarrassed to admit publicly that I'm addicted to this series, I'd have a t-shirt made that said, \"Slay Stevie Rae.\" She is the epitome of annoyance, along with Rephaim, Kalona, the stupid non-twins, and Jack, the squeaking boyfriend (Damien deserves better, I think). But...here I am, finished with this book the day after it's release. The first 100 pages are a waste...meaningless dialogue that I doubt the authors even understand themselves. But, for those of us who can't seem to t If I weren't embarrassed to admit publicly that I'm addicted to this series, I'd have a t-shirt made that said, \"Slay Stevie Rae.\" She is the epitome of annoyance, along with Rephaim, Kalona, the stupid non-twins, and Jack, the squeaking boyfriend (Damien deserves better, I think). But...here I am, finished with this book the day after it's release. The first 100 pages are a waste...meaningless dialogue that I doubt the authors even understand themselves. But, for those of us who can't seem to tear ourselves away from the series and are looking for a happy ending (well, for now, since we're apparently a long way from the end...I'm actually kicking myself for beginning), you won't be disappointed at the end of this one. ...more Burned is the long-awaited seventh book in P.C. and Kristin Cast's House of Night series. Now, I've been waiting for this book to come out ever since I finished Tempted. So, I'm sure you can understand how excited I was when I finally got the book. However, that excitement did not stick with me throughout the novel. Admittedly, there were some funny/good parts, but there were so many other things that bothered me. Those bothersome elements are what earned this book such a low rating. One of the f Burned is the long-awaited seventh book in P.C. and Kristin Cast's House of Night series. Now, I've been waiting for this book to come out ever since I finished Tempted. So, I'm sure you can understand how excited I was when I finally got the book. However, that excitement did not stick with me throughout the novel. Admittedly, there were some funny/good parts, but there were so many other things that bothered me. Those bothersome elements are what earned this book such a low rating. One of the first things I didn't like about this novel was the way it started out. It started from Kalona's point of view. Now, he is supposed to be the big baddie of the book, alongside Neferet. So, I did not really like seeing a \"softer\" side to Kalona. I do not want to like him and the first chapters had me feeling a little bad for him; I didn't like that. But, going along in that vein, I thought it was weird that Kalona was so conspicuously absent in the novel. He only really shows up a couple of times. The same goes for Neferet. She's part of the book for about two or three chapters and then she's not there anymore. The next issue I had with the book was Stevie Rae. I used to actually like her but now I can't stand her. I, personally, think she's been acting like a lying bitch and she deserved all the bad things she got. I was glad that someone finally found out that she'd been lying the whole time, even if I didn't really appreciate Dallas' freak-out. As much as I hate to say it, I am actually starting to like Rephaim. He is starting to be a little bit more...human. I mean, he's still in the \"evil\" category but there were definitely times in the book when he chose \"good.\" Of course, I won't have a fully formed opinion about him until he finally makes a decision: His father/Darkness or Stevie Rae/Light? I thought it was, also, weird that Erin, Shaunee, Damien, and Jack were not in a lot of the book. I mean, all they really did was cry and then research. Sure, they helped figure out a way to get Stark onto the Isle of Women but they really didn't do much else. The two worst things, though, had to be Zoey and Heath. She was even more obnoxious in this book than in the others and she was certainly less intelligent. Now, I understand that she was \"losing herself\" and all that but come on! It was ridiculous! I was glad, though, when she finally put her soul back together. I just hate that Stark had to be beaten and bloody for her to do it. And Heath? Holy hell, how did I ever like him?! He was so freaking annoying. And selfish. He was really willing to keep Zoey in the Otherworld with him instead of trying to send her back before Stark came and convinced him otherwise! And, if I had to read \"Babe\" or \"Zo, babe\" one more time, I think I was going to kill myself. Also, I hate their fake swear words. If you are going to try and be \"badass\" and swear, then use the real works! If I had to read \"bullpoopie\" or \"bullcrap\" one more time, I was really going to throw the book at the wall. There were two things, though, that I did like: Stark and Aphrodite. They have both always been favorites of mine. I love Aphrodite because she's sarcastic, funny, says whatever the hell she wants to, and she's real . She is one of the few people in this series that I actually feel like I could meet in real life. Also, she is always there to help Zoey even if she hates to admit that she actually cares about anyone other than herself and Darius, who I also thought was conspicuously lacking in character development throughout this book. Stark, too, has always felt real to me. He, like Aphrodite, is sarcastic, funny, works as hard as he needs to in order to get what he wants, and like her, he is real. His stubborn attitude is part of what makes him real for me. What teenage guy isn't stubborn when it comes to getting what he wants? Also, his maturity from boy to man at the end is important in how I feel about him. He was able to take on responsibility and not be all whiney and complaining about it. And, as obnoxious as Zoey may be, a large part of me holds out hope that she will finally embrace Stark's love for her and be able to love him back. ...more After I finished the first book, Marked, I didn't have that longing feeling I get when I am waiting for the release of the next book. However after I read the other books, I started to feel that longing. These books may not be my absolute favorites, but these are enjoyable and I would recommend these to vampire lovers. Zoey\u2019s soul has been shattered but, sadly, because my suffering has not ended that means everyone is running around trying to save her. Meanwhile Stevie Rae is determined to make even worse relationship decisions than Zoey. That sounds like a near impossible task, but she is up to the challenge. This book is\u2026 so very typical of the House of Night series. We have a plot line that completely rests on Zoey even though it really should be about someone else \u2013 Heath. Heath is the one who died \u2013 but no, Zoey\u2019s soul has been shattered but, sadly, because my suffering has not ended that means everyone is running around trying to save her. Meanwhile Stevie Rae is determined to make even worse relationship decisions than Zoey. That sounds like a near impossible task, but she is up to the challenge. This book is\u2026 so very typical of the House of Night series. We have a plot line that completely rests on Zoey even though it really should be about someone else \u2013 Heath. Heath is the one who died \u2013 but no, it\u2019s all about Zoey and her shattered soul. Y\u2019know, I\u2019d be a teeny tiny bit of sympathetic towards her if every last death in this series wasn\u2019t all about her. Heath just follows Stark and Stevie Rae as yet another death that was all about precious precious Zoey. So with Zoey properly centred as all important, nearly everyone else (except Stevie Rae, which we\u2019ll come to) runs around trying to help her. This involves, inevitably, cryptic clues, poetry and everyone spending far far far far far too long trying to interpret everything because Nyx is incapable of being clear and the rest of the cast don\u2019t have two brain cells between them. Of course all of this happens with Neferet and Kalona planning terrbad naughty things and with Neferet manipulating the Council to try and make them believe she\u2019s still on team good guy. And Nyx, while happy to send cryptic poetry, happy to send prophecies, happy to have little conversations with Aphrodite and Zoey and is even willing to slap Kalona upside the head in the Otherworld. But she STILL cannot bring herself to send her precious High Council a memo, or informative bowel problems or anything. Seriously, you\u2019d think they\u2019d be due a text or something. A tweet. Smoke signals, carrier pigeons (or raven monsters) something, anything. Nyx is trolling, pure and simple. But while we\u2019re discussing Kalona let\u2019s touch on the intolerable retcon and redemption we can see hoving into view with inevitable awfulness: Kalona is going to be redeemed. I know this is coming because we spent time in this book AGAIN saying how sad and tortured poor Kalona is with an added side dish of how terribad evil Neferet is. Yes, she is definitely promoted to biggest of big bads and directly connected to the Darkness more than Kalona (more than that later) and is even imprisoning and forcing the poor tortured evil Kalona. I\u2019ve said before, this series is much much more invested in having a female villain. The last two books have tried very hard to downplay Kalona\u2019s villainy while bigging up Neferet\u2019s awfulness. Now some sensible people would say that Kalona, a rapist and multiple murderer can\u2019t possibly be redeemed. To which I say, oh sensible person why are you even reading this book?! I don\u2019t even know if it\u2019s worth even poking this damn plot. I mean Zoey goes to the Otherland with her shattered soul and puts it together. I\u2019d like to say that this was an interesting story in which Zoey confronted all the different aspects of her personality and ritually murdered each terrible one but that would be a lie \u2013 we have three bits which wave and lo, done. There\u2019s no conflict or development. Zoey goes form \u201cwaaah I can\u2019t put my soul together\u201d to \u201cok putting my soul together now\u201d by just\u2026 trying harder. Most of the plot is consumed by the dullness of Stevie Rae\u2019s love life and the attempt to portray some desperate conflict with the House of Night which basically involves Stevie Rae occasionally meeting people, losing all patience with them within seconds and without them really saying anything and then storming out. It\u2019s like the authors really want to portray her as getting sick of the establishment and storming out \u2013 but doesn\u2019t have the patience to actually write the storyline because, really, it\u2019s all about the love life Stevie Rae has looked at the hot trainwreck mess of Zoey\u2019s relationship and said that she can totally trump it (but probably with more folksy aphorisms because the way she speaks is so terrible I think the whole state of Oklahoma should declare war on the Casts. Or, at least, the book should come with a Gibberish Hillbilly to English dictionary). Yes, her imprint with Rephaim the evil bird monster has turned into a full blown romance. Of course, this being a House of Night book we can\u2019t possibly have just one love interest for our pseudo-protagonist \u2013 so she\u2019s already being followed around by the electric Red Fledgling Dallas (so called because he has absolutely no personality at all but instead has a shiny special magic power which kind of makes up for not having a personality right?). Like her precious Zoey she decides the best way to deal with a love triangle is to sneak around behind the back of your boyfriend while you establish a relationship elsewhere. Of course, this would make her an utterly terrible person so, in proper House of Night fashion he transforms into an utter monster so Stevie Rae manages to keep on being the good guy. It\u2019s very very helpful that the love interests in this book are always willing to start mining to the depths so the protagonists can cling to their moral high ground. This may also explain why they\u2019re attracted to the most evil possible guys around. Zoey got her redeemed rapist (aaargh, why do I even have to type that phrase?) who has pretty much set himself up as her one and only - so Stevie Rae decides she\u2019s going to fall in love with and bond Rephaim, the inhuman, murdering Raven Monster I just can\u2019t wait until the next book when, if we\u2019re following Zoey\u2019s patter, Stevie Rae declares everyone judgmental meanings for not accepting her super evil love interest as a good guy. Read More ...more 4 Star rating I didn't review the last two House of Night Books, because i felt i'd said everything in the first 3book reviews, pretty much the same storylines, good battling evil, Zoey struggling with her boyfriend issues (she did kick Erik to the curb though in the last book!) So Burned by PC & Kristen Cast picks up where Tempted left off (Heath dead, Zoey's soul shattered) and just like it was done in Tempted, this book has multiple POV each chapter with the name of the person on each chap 4 Star rating I didn't review the last two House of Night Books, because i felt i'd said everything in the first 3book reviews, pretty much the same storylines, good battling evil, Zoey struggling with her boyfriend issues (she did kick Erik to the curb though in the last book!) So Burned by PC & Kristen Cast picks up where Tempted left off (Heath dead, Zoey's soul shattered) and just like it was done in Tempted, this book has multiple POV each chapter with the name of the person on each chapter. I liked that aspect, I like Zoey, but her teenage angst over all her boyfriends gets a little nerve grating after 6 books, so it was nice to see the others POV. Stevie Rae and Aphrodite take centre stage for most of the book, with Stark a close third. I've really enjoyed seeing Aphrodite's progression from book one, she still has that bite to her words and snarky attitude but she is a \"STFU and get it done\" kind of girl, i liked that! Having to figure out in 7 days or less how to get to the Otherworld where Zoey is with dead Heath to save or to watch her body die Stark her Warrior who i kind of have a crush on has to undergo a harrowing painful bloody quest in order to get there to save his High Priestess. Those scenes i found captivating, if not a little long, it went over many chapters. Heath got the scene of the book, i wont spoiler but it had me sniffling at 2am this morning as i read it, he really is a great 'boy next door' kind of character, never wavering in his love for the girl, despite when she takes up with more boys at the same time. My one big problem with the book if i had to pick one, was Stevie Rae, yeah i like her, she has funny quirks but it seems with Zoey out of commission and hardly featuring in the book, Stevie Rae picks up her angst baton and boyfriend drama and ran with it. Torn between love for Dallas a fellow red vampire and her growing feelings for bird man/bad guy Raphaim it all came to the same collusion as Zoey's love triangle involving Erik did in the last book, it was a bit yawn fest for me, The world is in turmoil, ready to be taken over by the crazy nutjob that is Neferet and her sidekick Kalona and Zoey and Stevie Rae make it worse by imprinting with anything that lets them suck neck. Having said that, i DO like Stevie Rae. HA! And i actually thought Raphaim falling in love was so sweet, so i'm interested to see how that progresses. Few quick points about the book: Kalona and Nerferet didn't feature much at all, i was disappointed with that since Neferet has been a big aspect of each book so far. It was set mostly in Scotland (the written accents made me giggle) I was hoping for a POV from the evil Neferet, but alas not this book. Stark, i haz crush on him. (did i say that already?) There wasn't much feature for the \"twins\" Shaunee and Erin which i was actually glad about, i find they don't bring anything to the storylines except to bitch at Aphrodite and to call each other \"twin\" every sentence, after 6 books that is annoying! Overall it was an enjoyable read, i like (most of) this group of people and watching them grow has been a good read, some irritating points, some yawn worthy but on the whole i'd recommend the entire series. I don't think this is a stand alone book, so if you haven't read books 1 through 6 you're going to be lost. ...more The heart is a powerful thing. The soul\u2026strong and unyielding. Burned is by far my favorite book of the series and where the others fell short I feel that Burned more than made up for it. The characters have all grown immensely, their feelings and attitudes shifting, changing, maturing. It took a while for me to finish the book only because I\u2019ve been so busy. Usually taking a while to read a book depletes my enjoyment of it, in this instance that was not the case. Though you can detect the writi The heart is a powerful thing. The soul\u2026strong and unyielding. Burned is by far my favorite book of the series and where the others fell short I feel that Burned more than made up for it. The characters have all grown immensely, their feelings and attitudes shifting, changing, maturing. It took a while for me to finish the book only because I\u2019ve been so busy. Usually taking a while to read a book depletes my enjoyment of it, in this instance that was not the case. Though you can detect the writing styles of P.C. Cast and the differing, more juvenile writing style of Kristin Cast, the parallel is important to the integrity of the books. The reliability to young readers portrayed in Kristin\u2019s writing and the maturity in P.C.\u2019s writing making for a well-rounded read. The story starts off on the edge of disaster. Zoey is broken and absent from the physical world, her tattoos gone apart from her fledgling crescent. All seems lost\u2026hope gone and sorrow an overwhelming cloud overhead. But as the friends work together, and at times in secret they discover how to mend Zoey\u2019s soul. Will they help her in time? Will Stevie Ray\u2019s secrets unravel and ruin even more than just Zoey\u2019s chance of coming back? Does stark have what it takes to protect his priestess? And where does that leave Nefret and Kalono, and the burning future that Aphrodite had seen in her vision what seemed like a lifetime ago? Stevie Ray and Raphiem are my FAVORITE\u2026something about how they connect and the hope of good that hangs in the balance between them excites me. The way that The Casts were able to breathe humanity into a creature I once saw as purely monster in inspiring, proving to be my favorite part of the book. And the glimpse of a different future\u2026one that will surely excite you as much as it did me, leaves me wanting more! And Stark, cocky, selfish, arrogant, Stark is faced with a choice\u2026a quest that will forever change your view of him as it has for me. I HIGHLY recommend this book and I was blown away with everything that went on within its pages. ...more Reviewed by LadyJay for TeensReadToo.com \"Kalona lifted his hands. He didn't hesitate. There was no doubt whatsoever in his mind about what he had to do.\" Zoey Redbird's soul has shattered. The fledgling High Priestess is trapped in the Otherworld and is slowly losing herself, piece by piece. Zoey's broken heart is making it difficult for her to return to her friends, and they are in desperate need of her help. Neferet is worming her way into the Vampyre High Council, and there is little to be done Reviewed by LadyJay for TeensReadToo.com \"Kalona lifted his hands. He didn't hesitate. There was no doubt whatsoever in his mind about what he had to do.\" Zoey Redbird's soul has shattered. The fledgling High Priestess is trapped in the Otherworld and is slowly losing herself, piece by piece. Zoey's broken heart is making it difficult for her to return to her friends, and they are in desperate need of her help. Neferet is worming her way into the Vampyre High Council, and there is little to be done about it. The remaining teachers at the House of Night are loyal to Zoey and know that Neferet is attempting to become the Tsi Sgili, allowing evil to follow in her wake. Zoey's friends are also trying to help; Stark, Aphrodite, Stevie Rae, and all the rest, but they, too, are dealing with problems of their own. Stevie Rae, who was almost murdered by a rogue group of red fledglings, has imprinted with a raven-mocker; Aphrodite is still trying to make sense of how/why Nyx has gifted her with Sight, but taken away her vampyre abilities; and now Stark, Zoey's Warrior, must kill part of himself to save the only thing he will ever love. The Cast duo has once again created an excellent addition to the HOUSE OF NIGHT series. This novel is especially telling, because the chapters are told from each character's perspective. It's nice to see the story develop from many points of view, rather than having a single narrator. Each character's voice is distinct, unique, and that's what makes these novels special. Just as with the last six novels, this one will leave you wanting more. Fear not, dear reader! The eighth installment of the series, entitled AWAKENED, will be revealed soon enough! ...more", "Title": "Burned"},
