{"Comments": "I'm not a likely candidate to read a <---A>Jodi Picoult</---A> book. I have to admit that I've always been a bit of a snob when it comes to the books that my Mom read. She was a big fan of mysteries, but nothing classic (<---B>no Christie or Doyle </---B>), very little new or challenging (no Steinhauer or Rankin ), and practically nothing genuinely pulpy (no Leonard or Chandler ). She always preferred the uber-popular stuff and was a massive fan of James Patterson (and his peers), having to go out and buy the books from his I'm not a likely candidate to read a Jodi Picoult book. I have to admit that I've always been a bit of a snob when it comes to the books that my Mom read. She was a big fan of mysteries, but nothing classic (no Christie or Doyle ), very little new or challenging (no Steinhauer or Rankin ), and practically nothing genuinely pulpy (no Leonard or Chandler ). She always preferred the uber-popular stuff and was a massive fan of James Patterson (and his peers), having to go out and buy the books from his mystery-mill in hardcover they day they were released. And that's where the snobbery comes in. I tried a couple Patterson books early on,<---M> but his work is basically crap</---M>, so when my Mom discovered Jodi Picoult, adding Picoult to her list of favourite authors and telling me I should read her, I mocked my Mom's taste and avoided Picoult with an internal snicker. But then my Mom died last month and my Dad asked me to go through her bookshelves and take anything I wanted.<---F> And there was Jodi Picoult</---F>. Now this probably wouldn't have been enough to make me grab a stack of my Mom's Jodi Picoult books, but two other moments pushed me over the edge. First, I bought my Mom Jodi Picoult's Wonder Woman: Love Murder for Christmas. I found it during a random book store browse and thought it would be a good way to introduce my Mom to graphic novels; second, I read a recent article by Stephen King that was talking about the merits of some of our most popular novelists, praising both Rowling and Picoult while damning Stephanie Meyer (raise a cheer!) and Patterson. I am not a big fan of King's fiction, but I do enjoy his essays on popular culture and literature, so his opinions are close enough to mine to take as advice. So I added the Jodi Picoult books grudgingly to my haul and put <+++>Salem Falls</+++> -- a random selection -- straight onto my to-read soon stack. I finished <+++>Salem Falls</+++> last night and I can say that I was completely surprised by how good it actually was and disappointed by how good it wasn't. Picoult is a good writer. She has serious chops. She balances multiple characters with the speed and grace of an excellent screen writer (I'm not talking about screen hacks here), giving us vivid scenes that tell the tale quickly and move on to the next important scene with no meaningless lingering. Her dialogue, though occasionally cliche, is believable and serves to make every character an individual. And her use of flashback to tell us bits and pieces about her people is superb. I was sold on Salem Falls by page ten, and she held my attention right to the end. I didn't expect that. Even with Stephen King's praise, I was ready to scoff at Picoult's work, but she really impressed me. Until Salem Falls shifted from an interesting story about interesting people to a boring Law and Order style courtroom drama. And it didn't have to do that. By the third act, Picoult gave up the creativity that was making Salem Falls a compelling read and took the conventional way out, which is a shame because the unconventional would have been so much better and realistic. You see, Picoult gave us all the information we needed to know the ending (which was a good one) early in her novel. A good reader, paying close attention, knows exactly what's going on. The problem is that her characters, smart people all (and brilliant in some cases), have the same information and never see what's happening. So we find ourselves waiting to see how the \"truth\" is going to come out and save <---C>Jack St. Bride</---C>, how it's going to make the trial meaningless, how it's going to save people's spirits and the bodies of some young women, but we are let down because, apparently, the smart folks in Salem Falls aren't as brilliant as the folks reading about them. Usually I would be a fan of people not being saved because in real life, more often than not, that is the case. People aren't saved. People go on in pain. People live with abuse that doesn't end. People hurt. And when authors are brave enough to let that happen I am generally full of praise. I would have been in this case too, had Picoult employed dramatic irony. But she didn't. There was no pertinent information we had that was withheld from the characters. They had the same access to information that we did, and they were oblivious. And I was left disappointed. I wanted more from Picoult, and she promised more in the first two acts only to fail us in the third; still, she did enough to win me as a fan (albeit it a mildly skeptical one). I will definitely read her again. I just hope she doesn't continue to exceed my expectations only to dash my hopes. There is only so much of that I can take. ...more This is one of those long reads where you really get to know the characters. It is set in Salem Falls, the quintessential American small town, a place where nothing much happens and where people move to because of its low crime rate. It is a safe place to bring up a family. However, the residents are in for a shock with the arrival of Jack St Bride, a man with a past. He is desperate to hide the fact that he has just been released from prison after having served eight months for a sexual assault This is one of those long reads where you really get to know the characters. It is set in Salem Falls, the quintessential American small town, a place where nothing much happens and where people move to because of its low crime rate. It is a safe place to bring up a family. However, the residents are in for a shock with the arrival of Jack St Bride, a man with a past. He is desperate to hide the fact that he has just been released from prison after having served eight months for a sexual assault \u2013 a crime he is adamant that he did not commit. When local diner owner Addie Peabody gives him a job and a place to stay it seems that he is finally back on track, especially when he and Addie start to get friendly. The story really starts when his secret is discovered and I don\u2019t want to spoil the read for anyone else, but we are soon embroiled in a complex story of lies and betrayals. The storyline really kept my interest with all its twists and turns although it was a little predictable in parts. When the twists came, they weren\u2019t so much surprising as confirming the suspicions I already had about what was likely to happen. In particular there is a huge surprise at the very end, but again I already had my suspicions about that anyway. It is a long read and there are times when the author tends to stray off the path a bit, particularly when she delves back into Jack\u2019s life story. Whilst these help to polarise your impressions of Jack and the man he has become, in all honesty they do not really add that much to the plot. On the whole though, it is a good read. ...more This is one of Jodi Picoult's best novels and one of my favourites. Perception is reality in this chilling tale of how one man can be condemned not once, but twice. It is a compelling and thought-provoking read. The author deals with the controversial subject of the novel with perfection, providing plenty of unexpected twists and turns along the way. The characters are appealing, believable and well-developed. I fell in love with the characters of Addie and Jack. Salem Falls is an incredibly wel This is one of Jodi Picoult's best novels and one of my favourites. Perception is reality in this chilling tale of how one man can be condemned not once, but twice. It is a compelling and thought-provoking read. The author deals with the controversial subject of the novel with perfection, providing plenty of unexpected twists and turns along the way. The characters are appealing, believable and well-developed. I fell in love with the characters of Addie and Jack. Salem Falls is an incredibly well-written novel which will keep you gripped from beginning to end. A well deserved five stars! ...more I wasted most of this weekend reading Salem Falls, the story of Jack, a high school history teacher who tries to start his life again after being wrongly accused of sexual assault, only to have the whole thing happen again in the new town. It was an easy read, an engrossing story, but there were parts of the story that drove me crazy. For one thing-- the dates were constantly off. For example, Jack's love interest Addie had a daughter who died some time in the past. At one point, they said she'd I wasted most of this weekend reading Salem Falls, the story of Jack, a high school history teacher who tries to start his life again after being wrongly accused of sexual assault, only to have the whole thing happen again in the new town. It was an easy read, an engrossing story, but there were parts of the story that drove me crazy. For one thing-- the dates were constantly off. For example, Jack's love interest Addie had a daughter who died some time in the past. At one point, they said she'd died ten years earlier, at another point, they said it was eleven years earlier, and another time they said it was eight years earlier. It might not seem like that big a deal, but it mattered to me, because it was the only way for me to gauge how old Addie was, since I knew that she was twenty-seven when her daughter died (or was she?). At the end of the book, they talk about how Jack went to jail in the summer of 1998, but the book takes place in 2000, and he was in jail for eight months, so he obviously went to jail in 1999. It's stuff like that that drove me nuts. Furthermore, while the story kept me reading, it felt like literary McDonalds. Not really good, not at all mind-expanding, but it somehow kept me coming back for more. It definitely cemented my opinion that Jodi Picoult is the female gender's John Grisham. ...more Another good book of Picoult's. This time, it was about an innocent teacher who was accused of sexual misconducts with a female student and had gotten out of prison for serving time on that. He moved into a new town, and unfortunately soon, everyone knew of his past and the accusations started up again. He was also innocent this time around. He had drunkenly stumbled across a group of girls who were out in the woods celebrating a Wiccan holiday, and their lies landed him in jail. With thanks to Another good book of Picoult's. This time, it was about an innocent teacher who was accused of sexual misconducts with a female student and had gotten out of prison for serving time on that. He moved into a new town, and unfortunately soon, everyone knew of his past and the accusations started up again. He was also innocent this time around. He had drunkenly stumbled across a group of girls who were out in the woods celebrating a Wiccan holiday, and their lies landed him in jail. With thanks to the devotion and faith of his new girlfriend, the truth began to unravel, bringing everything out in the open, including the very first girl whose accusation started it all. A powerful book - makes you think and realize the power of lies and how they can really DESTROY innocent people and lives. This is definitely a book I will keep for my library. ...more A most frustrating book. It is written on a formula perfect for Lifetime TV for women. It is clearly intended to be an issue oriented novel on the subject of the abuse of Megan's law and false accusations. The subject is not an easy one to deal with. I didn't like the graphic sex or the bad language. I didn't like the choppy style of jumping from one point of view to another without a transition. It was difficult to follow. Although the author apparently wanted a sensational surprise at the endi A most frustrating book. It is written on a formula perfect for Lifetime TV for women. It is clearly intended to be an issue oriented novel on the subject of the abuse of Megan's law and false accusations. The subject is not an easy one to deal with. I didn't like the graphic sex or the bad language. I didn't like the choppy style of jumping from one point of view to another without a transition. It was difficult to follow. Although the author apparently wanted a sensational surprise at the ending it was totally predictable. I was only surprised by the revelation of who the guilty party was in the unreported rape of one of the main characters. I was disappointed that when this revelation came the author and the character were content with an apology. The guilty party should have taken responsibility by turning himself in to the law and accepting the punishment he deserved. The real continuing perpetrator in the small town of Salem Falls should have been exposed in a way that his criminal behavior ended. That was the surprised that everyone the innocent as well as the guilty somehow avoided the consequences of their actions. On the other hand I did read the whole thing because I wanted to see how it all turned out. ...more I think this is the weakest Picoult book I've read so far - well, OK, Change of Heart didn't win a Pulitzer with me either. I go into one of her books expecting a certain amount of cheap romance and schmaltzy cliches, but I also expect both a real twist in the plot and a thought-provoking analysis on a current issue, but this one didn't really deliver. Quick synopsis: the protagonist, having just come out of 8 months in jail for a statutory rape charge, shows up in a small town, and falls in love I think this is the weakest Picoult book I've read so far - well, OK, Change of Heart didn't win a Pulitzer with me either. I go into one of her books expecting a certain amount of cheap romance and schmaltzy cliches, but I also expect both a real twist in the plot and a thought-provoking analysis on a current issue, but this one didn't really deliver. Quick synopsis: the protagonist, having just come out of 8 months in jail for a statutory rape charge, shows up in a small town, and falls in love with the owner of the local diner. Then he is accused of raping another girl and the whole nightmare starts all over for him. Pros: I love literary references and plot lines that are a commentary on other plots, so I really enjoyed the references to The Crucible, although I thought having it set in a town with a historic association to witch trials was laying it on a little thick. Another pro is certainly the fact that I raced through the book to get to the ending, but then I ended up feeling let down. I also like that Picoult left a certain amount of mystery about the supernatural in the book. Cons: First, the unbelievable amount of sappy cliches, presumably meant to make the reader swoon in vicarious passion and pity. It felt like the romance parts of the novel were written by doing a search on the most popular cliches in trashy books, rather than out of any depth of understanding. And the corniness doesn't stop there - the author does everything possible to turn the protagonist into a naive Prince Charming, but ends up looking like a moronic Dudley Do-right. I was really hoping that he would turn out to be the rapist in the prior case, just to break the unrealistic and monotonous theme of \"innocent man with the world against him\". But of course, he and his lady love are perfect in every way. The author even goes into how he intellectually inspired all the inmates and managed to avoid being raped in jail. This is because he wouldn't be fantasy material for sentimentalists if he'd been homosexualized and degraded - but I think Picoult misses the opportunity to draw an intriguing parallel between a rape happening to him and being ascribed to him. It also makes the point that having enough dignity and personal strength will keep someone from being raped (wow, if only the victims in the book had known that). The thing that really, really annoyed me was the fact that the \"surprise\" ending (that the victim is being molested by her father) is obvious from pretty early in the book, so I was just waiting for the satisfaction of seeing that revealed. Instead the book puts it in the very last paragraph and the molester goes unpunished. Presumably this is because the girl \"deserves\" what is happening to her (no effort is spared in making her out to be a spoiled, selfish and vindictive vixen - because of course, that's what teenagers from broken homes are when they act out). But the end message is that it's fine for the real crime to go unnoticed and unpunished - the important thing is that the two lovers are able to ride off into the sunset together. ...more Salem Falls is not exactly what I initially thought the book would be about from reading the synopsis on the back cover; however, it was a very interesting and mostly enjoyable read. Jack St. Bride was a history teacher at a private school who was falsely accused of statutory rape. Jack accepted a plea bargain when his lawyer advised him of all the circumstantial evidence against him and spent eight months in prison for a crime he did not commit. Upon his release, Jack knows that he cannot retur Salem Falls is not exactly what I initially thought the book would be about from reading the synopsis on the back cover; however, it was a very interesting and mostly enjoyable read. Jack St. Bride was a history teacher at a private school who was falsely accused of statutory rape. Jack accepted a plea bargain when his lawyer advised him of all the circumstantial evidence against him and spent eight months in prison for a crime he did not commit. Upon his release, Jack knows that he cannot return to the town where he once lived and randomly chooses a new town when he sees a 'help needed' sign in a local diner. The owner, Addie Peabody, has a broken past of her own and has shut out every man who has dared to try to crack the tough exterior wall that protects her heart... that is until Jack walks into her life. The secret of Jack's former imprisonment doesn't stay a secret for long, however, and before Jack can fully realize what is happening, a modern day witch hunt has bloomed in Salem Falls with Jack the center of everyone's suspicion. When the daughter of a local wealthy business owner accuses Jack of rape, the townspeople immediately assume he is guilty, but Jack is determined to not once again take the fall for something he claims he did not do. Pros: \u2022 Jodi Picoult is an amazing storyteller who is able to spin tales that keep me wanting to turn the page to see what happens. This is my fourth read from her, and she has never disappointed me. \u2022 The story is told from multiple characters which allows the reader to see how different perceptions are and why people can see the same story in so many different ways. \u2022 Jodi Picoult did a very good job of showing the hurt rape causes while at the same time showing that everyone who is accused isn't always guilty and how those lives can be destroyed as well. \u2022 In typical Picoult style, there is a twist at the end that you don't see coming but makes perfect sense when you think about all the hints she drops along the way. Cons: \u2022 I really wasn't a fan of all the witchcraft in the book. This was the detail the cover synopsis was missing; however, I should have assumed it from the title of the book. Witchcraft was portrayed as something that is more or less harmless and is a simple connecting of oneself with nature (even though the characters keep referring to gods and goddesses). \u2022 The 'g-d' word is used a lot in this book from just about every character. (view spoiler) [\u2022 When Jack and Addie are in the graveyard looking at Addie's daughter's headstone, it reads with the dates 1979 - 1989. When Addie is testifying at Jack's trial in 2000, Addie states that her daughter died seven years ago. I'm not sure if this editorial mishap was ever corrected in later editions. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Salem Falls is easily one of my favorite Jodi Picoult book - one part romance, one part courtroom thriller, two parts social commentary, to quote The Dallas Morning News. This time she tackles Megan\u2019s Law - law enforcement is required to make information available to the public regarding registered sex offenders - and how people are presumed guilty until proven innocent, instead of the other way around. \u201cWhen I was lying, they hung on every word. And when I told the truth, no one listened.\u201d {pg. Salem Falls is easily one of my favorite Jodi Picoult book - one part romance, one part courtroom thriller, two parts social commentary, to quote The Dallas Morning News. This time she tackles Megan\u2019s Law - law enforcement is required to make information available to the public regarding registered sex offenders - and how people are presumed guilty until proven innocent, instead of the other way around. \u201cWhen I was lying, they hung on every word. And when I told the truth, no one listened.\u201d {pg. 290} She also confronts how quickly people favoring the woman\u2019s perspective of \u201cwhat really happened,\u201d and I think it was very admirable of her to show us what life might be like for someone who truly did not commit the crime. \u201cYou had to pay your dues in jail. If you wanted a candy bar, it meant behaving well enough to be granted the commissary form. If you wanted the freedom of medium security, where you could wander through the common room during any hours except lockdown, you had to prove that you could conduct yourself well in maximum security. If you wanted to run in the courtyard, you had yo earn the privilege. Everything was a step, a reckoning, an inch given in the hopes of receiving one in return.\u201d {pg. 202-203} Picoult originally started out rewriting The Crucible {Arthur Miller}, but instead wrote a novel that highlights how situations like the Salem Witch Trials can and do happen in modern days. As with most Picoult books, Salem Falls immediately catches your attention and holds it until the very end. Full of emotion, it\u2019s one twist after other because those who are guilty aren\u2019t and those who are, aren\u2019t. ...more Among the contemporary writers, I also read recently 'Salem falls' by Jodi Picoult. What I liked about her is: she does not expose only the evils of the society; she also shows our strengths right next to our frailties. To give you a few examples of the positives in her book: - In the opening scene, I'm touched by the compassion of the taxi driver, who picks up Jack for free, when he is walking down the highway, barely clothed on a very cold day, with no money - then you see the reciprocative acts Among the contemporary writers, I also read recently 'Salem falls' by Jodi Picoult. What I liked about her is: she does not expose only the evils of the society; she also shows our strengths right next to our frailties. To give you a few examples of the positives in her book: - In the opening scene, I'm touched by the compassion of the taxi driver, who picks up Jack for free, when he is walking down the highway, barely clothed on a very cold day, with no money - then you see the reciprocative acts of protection between him and the woman Addie, right at the beginning, when he shows up at her restaurant - later, you see the dignity of Jack on many occasions - the act of self-sacrifice that Jack does to protect Addie's drunk father - the extent to which Addie goes for helping Jack, in spite of her inner conflicts - the generosity of Wes for Jack, in spite of their rivalry And, in terms of craft, this is an author who keeps us uncertain till the end, forcing us to read every line, because you never know how the end will turn out. I find Picoult has done a great job here, portraying a realistic story, in a way that is a balanced mix of good and bad, where everything does NOT turn out predictably. Another great writer I\u2019ve appreciated is Tony Morrison. Although sometimes I have difficulty following her use of dialects, I think in \u2018Shula\u2019 and \u2018Beloved\u2019 she has really created some great characters, with some vivid descriptions and interior monologues. I really wish we had some great female writers in France, as you have in America. ...more At first glance Salem Falls is intimidating. The print is small, the book is thick, and once you've dipped a toe into the pages you soon realize that the topic is delicate on top of everything else. It starts off as a slowly progressing story about a man, Jack, who has a past he clearly wishes to leave behind him. He finds himself in the presence of a woman, Addie, with an equally broken past who wishes just as much as Jack does to ignore it. But as with any story and its hidden secrets they are At first glance Salem Falls is intimidating. The print is small, the book is thick, and once you've dipped a toe into the pages you soon realize that the topic is delicate on top of everything else. It starts off as a slowly progressing story about a man, Jack, who has a past he clearly wishes to leave behind him. He finds himself in the presence of a woman, Addie, with an equally broken past who wishes just as much as Jack does to ignore it. But as with any story and its hidden secrets they are sure to find themselves unraveled, leaving the characters to piece back their lives as best as they can. But for Jack, his past comes back to haunt him in a very big way and innocence is something he finds himself fighting to prove again. This book surprised me on multiple levels. Being a reader of young adult books on average I wasn't sure if I'd end up enjoying such a serious storyline. However once I read a few chapters into it I couldn't put it down. I couldn't pull myself away from the compelling struggles and triumphs that took places in these characters lives. Characters who I found myself sympathizing with and caring deeply about. Right up until the very end I found myself sitting on the edge of my seat, hoping for an outcome that I would be satisfied with. And while the reader might be able to suspect the ending it was very well disguised and proved to be a well rounded and profoundly written book. ...more It is so hard for me not to completely immerse myself in Jodi Picoult's books and ignore the passing of time. I read this in one day--couldn't put it down. I love the way she develops characters to the point that I feel their pain. The only other book have ever read by Jodi Picoult was My Sister's Keeper. It wasn't great, it wasn't all that good. It was 'ok' at best. That book was leaps and bounds better than Salem's Falls. This is an awful, awful book. It stinks. Also, I didn't like it. *beware: here there be major spoilers* I may have gotten some minor details wrong and left some stuff out, but this is basically what happens: Jack, a sensitve drifter with a past, wanders into a New England town. He quickly and easly lands The only other book have ever read by Jodi Picoult was My Sister's Keeper. It wasn't great, it wasn't all that good. It was 'ok' at best. That book was leaps and bounds better than Salem's Falls. This is an awful, awful book. It stinks. Also, I didn't like it. *beware: here there be major spoilers* I may have gotten some minor details wrong and left some stuff out, but this is basically what happens: Jack, a sensitve drifter with a past, wanders into a New England town. He quickly and easly lands a job washing dishes at the local diner. But Jack is not your run of the mill drifter, oh no. He is a former teacher and soccer coach. He was recently released from prison following a wrongful conviction for statutory rape. A student, Catherine, had such bad crush on him she kept a fake diary of thier 'romance'. Her father found it and assumed it was real. Anyway, Jack is very handsome. He is also good at guessing the answers on Jeopardy! This is very important. His skill at Jeopardy! even saved him from prison rape. Sorta. Did I mention he is handsome? Because he is. Handsome. Addie, that's the diner's owner, has her own problems. Her daughter Chloe has died but she continues to talk about her as if she alive. She even makes her lunches. At some pont it also comes out that Chloe was concieved as a result of rape, because a dead kid just isn't *dramatic* enough. Addie's daddy is also a lush. Jack humors Addie about her dead daughter. This combined with his dazzling handsomeness and prowess at Jeopardy! makes Addie fall in love with him. Then the word gets out that Jack is a convicted sex offender. Addie and Jack's romance keeps on going after she learns about his conviction because he says he didn't do it. Other people in town don't take the news so well. They try to drive him out of town. Set a fire, beat him up. You know, the usual. On top of all that, there this a group of teenage girls who practice Wicca. That's right, Salem Falls has witches. Gillian who is basically the lead 'witch' has the hots for Jack. This is all on account of his excessive handsomeness and because her daddy tells her to stay away from him. Gillian has some big ol' issues. By the end it is strongly implied her father is sleeping with her. (Don't complain. I told you there would be spoilers!) Meanwhile, since things are going so well with Addie, Jack decides its time to fuck things up. He packs up Chloe's room without consulting Addie. Addie freaks out. Jack gets drunk at a local bar with Addie's lush of a father. Then he stumbles off through the woods where he happens on the local teenage witches performng some kind of teenage witchery. Naked teenage witchery. Gillian throws herself at Jack. He manfully resists and stumbles on back to Addie's house. Addie forgives him for packing up Chloe's things and lets him back in. The next morning the cops break in and arrest and Jack for raping Gillian in the woods. Addie isn't quite so sure if she trusts Jack anymore. Jack gets a lawyer who thinks he is guilty, then decides Jack is innocent, but changes him mind again, and again. Some information about the girl's naked witchery comes out, and the fact they were high comes as well. Addie decides to visit Catherine, the first girl who accused Jack of rape. Addie realizes Jack is innocent because the time Catherine said she met Jack was when Jeopardy! was on. She knows that Jack wouldn't miss Jeopardy! ever. Not even for sex. Addie gets Catherine to admit to her that Jack is innocent, but refuses to come forward in court. At some point, I forget exactly when, one of the guys who raped Addie decides to apologize to her and she accepts, just like that. No big whoop. More boring trial stuff happens and then suddenly Catherine dramatically shows up in court and admits she never had sex with Jack. Jack is acquitted of raping Gillian. He is only guilty of being handsome and good at Jeopardy! Gillian was so pissed that Jack wouldn't have sex with her she accuses him of rape for funsies. Girls! Addie and Jack decide to leave town together because people there will never ever, not ever, accept Jack. Excessive handsomeness ruins peoples lives, Ya'll! Addie's drunken father takes over the diner. Happily ever after. The end. Except the last scene is Gillian's father telling her that he is the only one for and kissing her on the mouth. Ugh. I hate this book. I really, really hate this book. ...more I must admit, before picking this book up I'd never read Jodi Picoult before. I knew she was wildly popular, prolific and highly-praised for her work, and people had been recommending her to me for years, so I thought I'd finally take the plunge. Was it worth it? Well, yes and no. Firstly, there's no doubt about it: Salem Falls is a fast-paced page-turner with more twists and turns than a rollercoaster ride. Nor is Picoult shy of dealing with those contentious topics - rape, incest, the shortcomi I must admit, before picking this book up I'd never read Jodi Picoult before. I knew she was wildly popular, prolific and highly-praised for her work, and people had been recommending her to me for years, so I thought I'd finally take the plunge. Was it worth it? Well, yes and no. Firstly, there's no doubt about it: Salem Falls is a fast-paced page-turner with more twists and turns than a rollercoaster ride. Nor is Picoult shy of dealing with those contentious topics - rape, incest, the shortcomings of the legal system - that fluffier fiction will not touch. And there's a strong moral here, namely that we shouldn't pre-judge people until we know the facts. Besides, this is good entertainment value, with a cleverly-constructed plot; it's well-written for the most part, and if you're looking for a relatively undemanding read this could be for you. But ... somehow, I'm just underwhelmed. I prefer my novels to have a bit of depth, and this, for all its glittering lights and colours, just seemed to be all surface. I mean, some of these characters are so flat! One-dimensional, walking, talking marionettes, they seem to exist solely to flesh out Picoult's narrative. Take our hero, Jack St Bride - is this character one of the most shameful examples of authorial wish-fulfillment ever? He's so incredibly handsome that just about every woman he encounters falls madly in love with him. He's strong - but gentle. He's intelligent - but sensitive. He's the best teacher ever. He rescues helpless damsels from oversexed footballers. He comforts a grieving mother. Oh, and he's rich too. In fact, he quickly comes to resemble a sort of modern-day secular saint: think Princess Diana with a Y-chromosome. Does this man have any flaws at all? Well, he gets a bit annoyed at being falsely accused all the time. In fact, he almost gets angry on one occasion. Wow - that's depth for you. Besides, all these characters are so moronically stupid! Addie, despite a painful past involving a rape, wastes no time in falling for a complete stranger, despite the fact that he's very clearly hiding some dark secret. Teenage girls respond to Jack's rejection by making false accusations against him, apparently unaware of or indifferent to the hornets' nest this will stir up. Same teenage girls deliberately take a massive overdose of poison during their Wiccan ceremonies, oblivious to the fact that, as they're in the middle of the woods, there'll be no medical help forthcoming if it all goes horribly wrong. Even Jack (who's meant to be really clever, apparently because he's good at a TV trivia quiz) can't work out that some relationships with teenage girls, while not sexual, may nevertheless be inappropriate. I mean, driving an underage girl off to get birth control pills?! (Oh, and by the way, Einstein - if you're a convicted sex offender, it's probably not a good idea to hang around near school sports fields accosting teenage girls.) So ... meh. It wasn't that bad, and it wasn't that great either. Oh, and another thing - the much-lauded final twist can be seen coming a mile away, so don't get too excited about that, either. ...more I don't know what I would really rate this book. I felt that it was well-written (I would expect nothing less from Jodi Picoult) and well-planned, but the subject matter was something I struggled with. I think that's why it took me a lot longer to read this one than some of Picoult's others. I was mostly bothered by the fact that Picoult perpetuated the idea of blaming the victim. The whole trial was basically a way for the defense to discredit Gillian. Regardless of whether or not she was tellin I don't know what I would really rate this book. I felt that it was well-written (I would expect nothing less from Jodi Picoult) and well-planned, but the subject matter was something I struggled with. I think that's why it took me a lot longer to read this one than some of Picoult's others. I was mostly bothered by the fact that Picoult perpetuated the idea of blaming the victim. The whole trial was basically a way for the defense to discredit Gillian. Regardless of whether or not she was telling the truth, the fact that they raked her name through the mud is the reason why actual rape victims don't come forward. Gillian was made out to be a slut who was on drugs, and regardless of whether or not she was, that doesn't mean she couldn't be raped. Picoult added to the stereotype that women are vindictive and will accuse men of such things when they do something bad to them, and seeing as Picoult is a woman herself, I had a major problem with that. I know this is just a work of fiction, but it still really bothered me. I felt like Jack was supposed to be a sympathetic character, however that didn't really translate well to me. I thought he was a priviledged white kid who went to a good school and wasn't that great of a guy (I wasn't a fan of what his soccer team did in college--which he participated in--and he should have known his relationship with Catherine Marsh was inappropriate, if not sexual. I had a teacher in high school once say that if another teacher was doing anything that even remotely could come across as inappropriate, he had crossed a line, which I think is a good rule of thumb for high school teachers). I didn't like how everyone in town seemed to disregard the fact that Jack's first sexual assualt conviction had nothing to do with a violent rape. It didn't really make sense to me the witch hunt that ensued regarding him; shouldn't they be more worried that he'd start a relationship with their daughters, not randomly and violently rape them? But, clearly the townspeople weren't really thinking, they were just doing whatever Amos told them to do, which is ironic in itself. I was really bothered by Amos' character (for obvious reason when you've read the whole book), but also by Charlie's character as well. Seeing as how they had both committed the same crime, I thought they shouldn't be so quick to judge (and say things like they thought his penis should be cut off, or when Charlie made him take out 30 pubic hairs for testing) when they should really be saying those things to themselves, especially since they never had to pay for their crime. As others have said, the \"surprise\" twist at the end wasn't that big of a surprise. There were definitely hints throughout the book. It did succeed, however, in making Amos out to be an even bigger hypocrite than I had originally thought. ...more I enjoyed this book and finished it in one day of voracious reading, but I can't bear to give it more than two stars. I enjoy Jodi Picoult books, yes, but this one is not her finest. It seemed like she was trying really hard to write another \"Jodi Picoult book,\" but not paying attention to the way the story unrolled or the characters or their motivations. Part of the reason this book irritated me, I think, was that I had just finished reading Alice Sebold's Lucky , which was a heartrendingly re I enjoyed this book and finished it in one day of voracious reading, but I can't bear to give it more than two stars. I enjoy Jodi Picoult books, yes, but this one is not her finest. It seemed like she was trying really hard to write another \"Jodi Picoult book,\" but not paying attention to the way the story unrolled or the characters or their motivations. Part of the reason this book irritated me, I think, was that I had just finished reading Alice Sebold's Lucky , which was a heartrendingly real account of a rape and its aftermath, and in this book, a rape is treated as a sensationalistic plot point. I enjoy Picoult's books because they deal with difficult and complex issues, but this book just seemed preposterous. I agree that the issue of branding sexual offenders for life is a complex one, with two sides that are both compelling. But that issue seemed overshadowed by the odds against one angelic man being falsely accused not once, but TWICE, for raping teenage girls. And where the hell did all the Wiccan stuff come from? Also, the grand plot twist at the end was plain to me from about a third of the way through the book. Oy. ...more I have two words to discribe this novel, contrived and convoluted. From the very beginning this novel is ludicrous. The characters are so unbelievable you just don't care about their individual stories or the \"big\" picture they are all involved in either. Seriously? A teacher wrongly convicted of a sex crime ends up in a town called Salem Falls with teenaged witches plotting against him just because they can? So of course he is Again faced with false charges of rape being pressed against him, bl I have two words to discribe this novel, contrived and convoluted. From the very beginning this novel is ludicrous. The characters are so unbelievable you just don't care about their individual stories or the \"big\" picture they are all involved in either. Seriously? A teacher wrongly convicted of a sex crime ends up in a town called Salem Falls with teenaged witches plotting against him just because they can? So of course he is Again faced with false charges of rape being pressed against him, blah, blah, blah. Ya know yes teenagers seem to make up the biggest growing section of pagan religions including wicca and other witchcraft sects but unless you actually know anything about the craft it's best to leave that subject to people who do. Otherwise you just look prejudiced against something you don't understand. Anyway,I have read two other novels by Jodi picoult and I loved those, so I guess this novel proves that even a gifted writer is capable of producing an occasional stinker! I say skip this one. ...more Prior warning I'm writing this review at 4am having just finished this and I'm both a tad confused as to how the author of Sing You Home could have written this and pretty peed off. Anyone else a little tired of books about rape ending up with the poor, handsome white boy being innocent? Especially when it was clear Picoult was a little bit in love with him, describing his features and his wonderful personality and his pointless subplot about enjoying Jeopardy. To be accused twice of sexual assa Prior warning I'm writing this review at 4am having just finished this and I'm both a tad confused as to how the author of Sing You Home could have written this and pretty peed off. Anyone else a little tired of books about rape ending up with the poor, handsome white boy being innocent? Especially when it was clear Picoult was a little bit in love with him, describing his features and his wonderful personality and his pointless subplot about enjoying Jeopardy. To be accused twice of sexual assault and be innocent of both is a little beyond the realms of believability as well, especially when a flashback to Jack's past revealed him to be quite the predator/condoner of sexual assault in his college years. What was the point of that flashback if not to cast doubt as to his moral character? Or were we supposed to consider him an awesome hero for eventually making them stop. This is similar to my issue with the characterisation of Charlie who nonchalantly admitted rape to his victim and then apologised as though that is actually something acceptable we should be commending him for apologising for? Like I actually felt sick reading that knowing he wasn't ever going to be punished and she wasn't holding grudges against him. The ending seems to have been incredibly obvious to most and admittedly I didn't see it coming despite usually being a plot guessing detective but... I just felt a little bit sickened that that's how she chose to end the novel with no explanation like... Gillian has been getting abused for years by her father? Why spend the entire book trashing her character and her morals to then tell us that? I don't care about Jack and Addie's boring ass heteronormative happy life when I know there's a rapist working in the police force and a young girl is in an inappropriate relationship with her father. I'm just not sure what Jodi's intentions were with this book; I had her down as perhaps being a bit of a feminist but I'm both disappointed and nauseous. A boring and generic romantic plot from nowhere doesn't take away the poor handling of a serious social issue. ...more I was waiting for my car to be ready from the service, sat down in a used-books store for the second time in one hour, picked this book out of the shelves rather than the one in my handbag and started reading. It hooked me immediately, so I bought it. Once upon a time (June 2008) Jodi Picoult's \"nineteen minutes\" was the first book I had read for fun in several months. I read it during a weekend I could not get out of bed from exhaustion and it got me back on my feet. So Jodi Picoult has a specia I was waiting for my car to be ready from the service, sat down in a used-books store for the second time in one hour, picked this book out of the shelves rather than the one in my handbag and started reading. It hooked me immediately, so I bought it. Once upon a time (June 2008) Jodi Picoult's \"nineteen minutes\" was the first book I had read for fun in several months. I read it during a weekend I could not get out of bed from exhaustion and it got me back on my feet. So Jodi Picoult has a special place in my heart, although I haven't loved ALL her books and I don't really read her anymore. There is usually some sort of twist that can be sensed from miles away. In this novel Jack has been let out of prison for a minor sexual offense. He has nowhere to go and by chance he ends up in Salem Fall's. He saves restaurant owner Addie out of a pickle and lands a job helping out. He has to report himself to the nearest police station due to his status, which he does. The information does not stay uknown for long and Jack promptly gets into trouble by small town folks with lynching on their minds. The situation gets decidedly out of hand when one of highschool girls claims Jack raped her. I liked Jack from the start, figured he'd been set up. There is the nagging thought nonetheless, that perhaps he isn't quite who he claims to be. There are some parts of the book that don't seem to fit well together, but I enjoyed it so much I didn't really care. Maybe I should start to read Jodi Picoult again after all. ...more Picoult's books always make you think, and show you how there are many sides to just one issue. On the surface, Salem Falls is the story of a modern-day witchhunt in the form of a rape trial, but it's really the backstories of the characters that make the book what it is. Her style of writing is unpretentious but definitely carries a strong message. From the beginning, it is fairly obvious how the rape trial will end. However, it is the entire process of the trial and the actions of each charact Picoult's books always make you think, and show you how there are many sides to just one issue. On the surface, Salem Falls is the story of a modern-day witchhunt in the form of a rape trial, but it's really the backstories of the characters that make the book what it is. Her style of writing is unpretentious but definitely carries a strong message. From the beginning, it is fairly obvious how the rape trial will end. However, it is the entire process of the trial and the actions of each character that makes the reader heavily involved with the story. Your opinions of the characters will change throughout the book. There is one shocking revelation in the book, though that comes at literally the very end. It is something hinted at throughout the book - certain passages give you a bit of an \"off\" feeling but you shrug it off. However, once you finish reading the book, you'll want to go back and re-read these same passages in the light of the new information. It changes the tone of these passages and the motivations of certain characters completely. ...more Reviewed for THC Reviews Salem Falls was my first read by Jodi Picoult, and I have to say, it did not disappoint. It was an intriguing, multi-layered, dramatic story steeped in small-town secrets and lies. Salem Falls was inspired by Arthur Miller's The Crucible , a story which I haven't read, but about which I'm now curious. In her interview at the end of the book, Ms. Picoult talks about how she wanted to update The Crucible , but also wanted to tell a story about how lies often spread faster tha Reviewed for THC Reviews Salem Falls was my first read by Jodi Picoult, and I have to say, it did not disappoint. It was an intriguing, multi-layered, dramatic story steeped in small-town secrets and lies. Salem Falls was inspired by Arthur Miller's The Crucible , a story which I haven't read, but about which I'm now curious. In her interview at the end of the book, Ms. Picoult talks about how she wanted to update The Crucible , but also wanted to tell a story about how lies often spread faster than the truth and how it can be easier to believe those lies. I think the author succeeded beautifully in her mission. I consider myself to be a pretty open-minded person and would like to believe that I would be more like Addie, but if I were in the shoes of the townspeople or jurors in the story, I'm not entirely sure I would have believed Jack's story either. Even Addie and the few other people who ended up on Jack's side had their doubts about his innocence initially. I also felt that Ms. Picoult applied a very gentle hand and a fair approach when tackling the potentially controversial topics of witchcraft and rape. Somehow the author drew all the pieces and players together to craft an ingenious story that kept me engrossed throughout. Salem Falls very much has an ensemble cast, but the story really centers around Jack St. Bride. He was a respected teacher at a girls' prep school, until a fateful event changed his life forever. A student allowed her father and other authority figures to believe she'd had a sexual relationship with Jack, which eventually led to him being charged with statutory rape. Thinking they had no chance of winning if the case went to trial, Jack's attorney advised him to accept a plea bargain in which he would plead guilty to a lesser charge. Although Jack hated doing it, he decided it was better than the alternative if they were to lose. The story begins with Jack being released from prison after spending eight months there, and now he's trying to begin a new life while working as a dishwasher in a small-town diner. From the beginning, I found Jack to be a very sympathetic character who definitely got a raw deal. I think an unjust charge of sexual assault can ruin a man more thoroughly then perhaps any other crime, and we see all the ways in which it affects his life, chief among them that nearly an entire town turns against him. Jack is described as physically attractive with a charming personality, but what made him most appealing to me was his intelligence. He has a PhD in history, and he's a major trivia buff who can answer nearly every Jeopardy question correctly. While Jack initially tried to keep to himself, his caring side showed through in his observance and intuitiveness of the people around him. The author adds layers to Jack's character by telling his life story backwards in flashbacks all the way back until the day he was born. Each little snippet added something to his character to help the reader see what made him the man he was in the present. Another way that the author fleshes out Jack's character is through his romantic relationship with his boss and diner owner, Addie Peabody. Addie has suffered through multiple tragic events in her life, one of which could have given her every reason in the world not to trust Jack, but she does anyway, even after she finds out about his stint in prison. When the worst happens and Jack is accused of rape a second time, Addie initially has some doubts, wondering if she could have been wrong about him. She embarks on a fact-finding mission of her own, which eventually convinces her of Jack's innocence on all counts. From there, she becomes his steadfast rock throughout all the turmoil of the trial. I think a large part of her loyalty lies in her gratefulness to Jack for changing her life. When she and Jack first met, Addie seemed perfectly sane and normal on the outside, but inside, she's still buried in the pain of the past and having a hard time letting go. This grief manifests itself in an unusual way which leaves many of the townspeople thinking of her as crazy Addie. Jack sees beneath all that and gets to the heart of the matter, helping Addie to finally put her demons to rest, and in the process, he also helps her father who has a rather sordid history with alcohol. As I mentioned before, Salem Falls has an extremely varied character palette and the reader gets to experience the story from many different angles. Next most important after Jack and Addie are the four girls who bring the second rape allegation against Jack. The de facto leader of the group, Gillian, is the instigator of pretty much all of their exploits and the one who suggested that they form their own coven. Some of the things they do as a group are relatively benign, while others, namely Gillian accusing Jack of raping her, have far-reaching effects. Gillian is almost as layered of a character as Jack and Addie. Most of the time, I wanted to dislike her, because I was fairly certain Jack didn't do what she was accusing him of. At the same time, when everything comes full-circle at the end, I felt sorry for her and wished there could have been a different ending for her. There were definitely more secrets that needed to come out. Another stand-out character is Jack's defense attorney, Jordan. I think he's going through a bit of a mid-life crisis when he's asked to step in as the court-appointed council. I know some people think of criminal lawyers as evil, because of how they sometimes are able to persuade a jury to acquit someone who is as guilty as sin, but I thought Jordan put a pretty good face on his profession. Readers get to see that he does it because he feels that everyone deserves their day in court and as good of a defense as he can muster. Most of the time he doesn't really care whether his client is guilty or innocent, but with Jack, this changes somewhat. Once Jordan really started buying Jack's innocence, I think he worked that much harder to make sure Jack wasn't sent to prison again. Jordan also gets to rekindle a romance with Selena, his top investigator and former lover. We also get a balanced view by seeing the other side of the courtroom through the eyes of Matt, the prosecutor, who is equally determined not to allow what he perceives as an injustice to occur. There are lots of other secondary characters who build a vibrant cast and bring the town of Salem Falls to life. In fact, the POV changes approx. every one to three pages, which at first, was a little hard to follow. I kept forgetting who certain characters were. With a little extra focus, I was finally able to keep everyone straight, and in the end, it was definitely worth the effort. The way all their lives slowly intertwined into a complex web was thoroughly intriguing. In some ways, I think Jodi Picoult took a big risk by setting up a man who was accused of rape, not just once, but twice, as the actual victim, but I think it paid off in spades. I would never in a million years minimize the trauma experienced by actual rape victims, and I know that there are many who have never gotten justice for the crimes committed against them. However, we mustn't forget that there is a flip side to the coin in which some alleged perpetrators did not commit the crime of which they're accused and some have even done jail time for it. In my opinion, Jack's case followed a very believable chain of events that easily could have happened to a man in real life under similar circumstances. Much like the townspeople and even his lover, Addie, I occasionally doubted Jack's innocence. More than once, I asked myself, \u201cDid he finally become the monster they made him out to be?\u201d I think this was all part of the beauty of the storytelling, because we, as the readers, get to experience both sides of what was happening. I found my first foray into Jodi Picoult's work to be a highly satisfying feast for the intellect. It was an intense, thought-provoking drama which I'm still mulling over hours after turning the final page. Salem Falls isn't even one of Ms. Picoult's highest rated books overall, so I can only assume that some of her other books are even better than this one, although that's difficult to imagine after such an amazing read. ...more Salem Falls is definitely my favourite book by Picoult thus far. She had \u2013 again \u2013 successfully incorporated a tinge of romance, a tinge of courtroom drama and a tinge of mystery into her writing, which in the end, made up a beautifully written story. As the other books by Jodi Picoult, this is another issue-oriented novel in which she tried to bring forward topics such as Megan\u2019s Law abuse (A law that requires law enforcement to make information regarding registered sex offender available to pu Salem Falls is definitely my favourite book by Picoult thus far. She had \u2013 again \u2013 successfully incorporated a tinge of romance, a tinge of courtroom drama and a tinge of mystery into her writing, which in the end, made up a beautifully written story. As the other books by Jodi Picoult, this is another issue-oriented novel in which she tried to bring forward topics such as Megan\u2019s Law abuse (A law that requires law enforcement to make information regarding registered sex offender available to public) and false accusations to readers\u2019 eyes. In Salem Falls, we were introduced to a character, Jack St. Bride, who spent eight months of his life behind the bars over crime he didn\u2019t commit. When he arrived in the small town of Salem Falls, New Hampshire, all he intended to do was to run away from his past and start anew. Landed a job as a dishwasher at a local diner, romance soon started to bud between him and Addie Peabody, the diner\u2019s owner. As the thing from Jack\u2019s past was made public, the people of Salem Falls treated Jack with such hatred. Through this ordeal, the relationship between him and Addie continued to blossom and they learnt quite a lot of heartbreaking things about each other. However, when a girl from a Wiccan group that practiced Pagan ritual accused Jack of raping her, everything began to shatter. Jack relived his nightmare once again but this time, he swore to himself that he won\u2019t plead guilty like he did before. Will he survive against this brutal allegation this time? Diving into this book was like peeling an onion. Secrets were carefully revealed, layer by layer, as you go through page after page. The plot was well thought out and seriously engaging. Even though it was a little obvious how the trial might end, the whole processes and characters behaviours made me thoroughly involved with the story. The revelation about Wiccan and their ritual really caught my interest because I\u2019ve never really heard of this thing. Besides that, there was also a shocking revelation towards the end of the book which made me read back few chapters and reanalyse certain characters motives This book was totally unputdownable and the fact that I finished it in one day really tells a lot. ...more I have read nearly all of Jodi Picoult's books now (I couldn't get through Second Glance) and this was actually one of her better ones, even though it was extremely ridiculous at times. It is a somewhat convoluted story but basically comes down to this: Jack St. Bride, a teacher and soccer coach, is accused of sexual assault by a student, takes a plea and spends time in jail. Upon getting out of jail, he wants to start a new life and lands in Salem Falls at a diner with Addie, a lady who hires J I have read nearly all of Jodi Picoult's books now (I couldn't get through Second Glance) and this was actually one of her better ones, even though it was extremely ridiculous at times. It is a somewhat convoluted story but basically comes down to this: Jack St. Bride, a teacher and soccer coach, is accused of sexual assault by a student, takes a plea and spends time in jail. Upon getting out of jail, he wants to start a new life and lands in Salem Falls at a diner with Addie, a lady who hires Jack on the spot. There is a another allegation by an underage girl and about 1/2 the book covers the investigation and trial. Of course, nothing is as it seems in Salem Falls (hint: witches are from Salem). This time, Ms. Picoult was able to throw a few twists into her story, leaving the final \"Law and Order\" twist until the very last page. I have to admit, it took me awhile to figure it out. My biggest problem with her books is that they are pretty well put together (even if it reads like the stereotypical Lifetime movie) and then the ending just kinda happens. It was a fast read and a decent story with her \"issue\" being Megan's Law and whether laws requiring registration and public announcements of people with prior sexual convictions are the best idea. ...more If I could give this book 10 stars, I would. This is the second book I've read by Picoult, and she is fast becoming one of my favorite authors. She is immensely talented, knows how to grab the reader from the first page and not let go until way past the last. She weaves her tales with such delicacy and intricacy you forget you're actually reading a fiction novel and not part of the small town where it takes place. I can think of several \"authors\" who should take a class from her on how to effect If I could give this book 10 stars, I would. This is the second book I've read by Picoult, and she is fast becoming one of my favorite authors. She is immensely talented, knows how to grab the reader from the first page and not let go until way past the last. She weaves her tales with such delicacy and intricacy you forget you're actually reading a fiction novel and not part of the small town where it takes place. I can think of several \"authors\" who should take a class from her on how to effectively write a good story. What I loved most about this novel is the ending. I won't give any spoilers, except to say I love open endings. Especially when they make you do a complete 180 about a character. The ending of this book didn't take me completely by surprise (I suspected), but I did have trouble falling asleep after because I was so roused by the turn of events in the last few paragraphs. If I could spend the rest of my life reading books by Jodi Picoult, I think I could be very happy. ...more Now that I have plenty of free to time to read, I wanted to rekindle my love for Jodi Picoult & her books. I've read Salem Falls before but hadn't remembered all the details the second time around. SO glad this was the first of her books to read from my hiatus. It was quite long (434 pages) and I got through it in 5 days. That just goes to show how amazingly easy this book was to read and not be able to put down. This book was written in 2001 and reading it more than 10 years later, everythi Now that I have plenty of free to time to read, I wanted to rekindle my love for Jodi Picoult & her books. I've read Salem Falls before but hadn't remembered all the details the second time around. SO glad this was the first of her books to read from my hiatus. It was quite long (434 pages) and I got through it in 5 days. That just goes to show how amazingly easy this book was to read and not be able to put down. This book was written in 2001 and reading it more than 10 years later, everything is still relevant. Add some criminal activity, a small town, some witchcraft, and a handful of complicated relationships and you'll get Salem Falls. Thanks Jodi for a great, great read! ...more So glad to finally finish this book! Time to start my next read to get my mind off this. I never Gillian would do something like this and I always believed Jack was innocent the entire time. It was still a great book! This is one of the worst books that I've read...only slightly better than the very few that I've not been able to finish. Pathetic. It's going to make a perfect Lifetime movie, with scenes from \"The Craft\". puke. A typical Picoult!! That was what I wanted!! Really enjoyed it! I read \u201cSalem Falls\u201d by Jodi Picoult. The main character, Jack St. Bride loves his job of teaching high school social studies. What he loves most about his job is the soccer team that he gets to coach each fall. Even though he is very young, he is content with his life and all aspects of it. Until his star soccer player accuses him of sexually assaulting her. Jack is blown away by this horrifying accusation. The court finds him guilty of the crime and he gets sent to jail for 8 months. When Jac I read \u201cSalem Falls\u201d by Jodi Picoult. The main character, Jack St. Bride loves his job of teaching high school social studies. What he loves most about his job is the soccer team that he gets to coach each fall. Even though he is very young, he is content with his life and all aspects of it. Until his star soccer player accuses him of sexually assaulting her. Jack is blown away by this horrifying accusation. The court finds him guilty of the crime and he gets sent to jail for 8 months. When Jack gets out of jail, he wants to start over. He doesn\u2019t want anyone to know of the crime he was accused of. As it\u2019s written in the book, \u201cSeveral miles into his journey, Jack St. Bride decided to give up on his former life.\u201d (Picoult 1) Jack finds a quiet peaceful town where no one knows him so that he can start all over. This becomes impossible, though, when the everyone in the town finds out that Jack went to jail for sexual assault. Even though Jack has always portrayed himself as a respectful, kind man, the fear of what Jack was accused of doing changes the citizens. Parents don\u2019t allow their children out after dark anymore, rumors start flying about Jack, and everyone\u2019s nervous of what Jack might do next. When Jack is accused of sexually assaulting another girl, everyone in the town turns hatefully him, even those who Jack called friends.\u00a0As Jodi Picoult states in this book \u201cA lie [takes] two parties- the weaver of the tale, and the sucker who so badly wanted to believe it.\u201d (Picoult 224) This book was flooded with detail and descriptions. Picoult put frequent similes and metaphors in her writing so that you were always bogged down of something was like or what it could be compared to. Not what it was. \u201cWords are like eggs dropped from great heights; you can no more call them back than ignore the mess they leave when they fall.\u201d (Picoult 125) The repetitiveness and dragging out of events made the plot hard to follow and dull. This was a book written to have suspense, without any suspense in it. I give this book a one out of 5 stars. When I first started reading it, I though that it would be alright, not my favorite book in the world, but worthy of reading. As I kept going, it just dragged on and on. If writing a book review hadn\u2019t been necessary, I wouldn\u2019t have kept going with this book. ...more Jack, an enthusiastic high school teacher and football coach, got in big trouble: he wrongfully got accused of seducing a teenage girl and went to prison for 8 months (long enough to forget how a car door works - Jack is kind of an idiot). After he gets out, he wants to start over and moves to Salem Falls, a nice little town. There, he finds a new job and a girlfriend. But unfortunately, word gets out about his past and most people are not welcoming. And Jack is kind of an idiot, so he gets accu Jack, an enthusiastic high school teacher and football coach, got in big trouble: he wrongfully got accused of seducing a teenage girl and went to prison for 8 months (long enough to forget how a car door works - Jack is kind of an idiot). After he gets out, he wants to start over and moves to Salem Falls, a nice little town. There, he finds a new job and a girlfriend. But unfortunately, word gets out about his past and most people are not welcoming. And Jack is kind of an idiot, so he gets accused of raping a teenage girl again. Jack claims he didn't do it, the girl claims he did, a modern-day witch hunt starts and leads - in true Jody Picoult style - to a court case! After two disappointing Picoult novels in a row, I didn't have high expectations for Salem Falls, but it turned out that I enjoyed reading it a lot. True, Jack is an idiot and sometimes I could only shake my head. And setting a modern-day witch hunt in Salem, the town best known for historic witch hunts AND putting in modern-day teenage witches might be a little over the top. But I was entertained during almost all parts of the book, it was a fast and easy read, and I liked Picoult's writing and the jumping around between different POVs. I also liked to read about the proceedings in court and the jury trial. Jury trials are a concept my legal jurisdiction doesn't have, so it's interesting to read about them once in a while. I briefly thought about going down to three stars because there was something about Jack that irked me in the beginning (yes, something besides the car-door-related memory loss!), and that was that he got out of prison rape because he is supposedly smart and good at Jeopardy!. That, to me, sounds an awful lot like: Your own damn fault if you get raped, you totally get out of it if you are smart enough - something I didn't like to read in a novel about rape. But I have to admit that I was critical when I started to read after being so disappointed by Picoult recently, so I might have been actively looking for flaws in this book. So, to be fair - still 4 stars! ...more", "Title": "Salem Falls"},
