{"Comments": "This is probably the hardest review I\u2019ve ever had to write. Shiver tears my heart in two every single time I read it. I felt Linger had its problems, mostly in the diluted narrative with the addition of two more POVs, but it was still extremely moving and I wanted to see what happened next. How strange it is, then, to read <+++>Forever</+++> and experience nothing even close to the emotions the first two books inspired. The Wolves of Mercy Falls series is love story told almost like a fairy tale. Aside from This is probably the hardest review I\u2019ve ever had to write. Shiver tears my heart in two every single time I read it. I felt Linger had its problems, mostly in the diluted narrative with the addition of two more POVs, but it was still extremely moving and I wanted to see what happened next. How strange it is, then, to read <+++>Forever</+++> and experience nothing even close to the emotions the first two books inspired. The Wolves of Mercy Falls series is love story told almost like a fairy tale. Aside from the bittersweet urgency of the romance, one of the most poignant elements in the books to me has been the wolves\u2019 desperate struggle to hang onto their human selves. The knowledge that they will lose every shard of awareness of who they are moves me unbearably, and Sam and <---C>Grace</---C> together are unlike any other couple I\u2019ve ever read. I am far less interested in Isabel and Cole. I like them just fine, even though they are both just typical YA characters that can be found in 100 other novels. If they had an entirely different book to themselves I probably would like them better\u2014but they don\u2019t. They\u2019re stuck right in the middle of Sam and Grace\u2019s story, and the intrusiveness of losing momentum in every other chapter as the story switched to their first person POVs became an increasingly frustrating experience.<---F> This is the end</---F>. There are no more books. I don\u2019t give a shit about Isabel\u2019s ongoing daddy issues or Cole\u2019s woe-is-me rock star problems (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [and it\u2019s beyond weird that he\u2019s the one with all the scientific solutions (hide spoiler) ] , all of which are rehashes from the previous book, I care about what happens to Sam and Grace. The story is even further fragmented by the addition of yet another POV, which was completely unnecessary and added nothing to the story. There are too many starts and stops that interrupt the flow of the action, there is a scene of shocking ugliness (view spoiler) [involving the increasingly crazed Shelby and a dead bird (hide spoiler) ] that I thought was completely out of place, and the actual resolution to the problem seemed to be dragged out far too long. I also didn\u2019t find a single quote that I wanted to pull. I normally am rapturous over the author\u2019s prose as well, but even the language in Forever didn\u2019t move me as much. Sam and Grace also seemed like shadows of their former selves, and I found myself becoming impatient with the way their narratives dawdled over insignificant details. The only scene that really moved me\u2014yes, the only scene\u2014comes very early in the book when Sam is racing to pick up Grace after she\u2019s turned human again for the first time and the awful feelings he experiences (view spoiler) [when he arrives to find nothing but her clothes and a pair of shoes (hide spoiler) ] . There are a few good scenes later in the novel that involve some sacrifices, but I read them with a fairly detached attitude. I\u2019m not sure if I\u2019d just become so numb by that time that I wasn\u2019t able to fully immerse myself again, or whether they really just didn\u2019t hold the same urgency and depth that I've come to expect from this series. What I found most disappointing, however, is that so many scenes did not ring emotionally true. If you\u2019ve been separated from the love of your life for months, the first thing you would do when you become human again is to findhimfindhimfindhim and hang on tight before you lose yourself again. It\u2019s not to wander out to have a random meaningless conversation with someone else. (And he would probably not have let you out of his sight to begin with.) The reunion scene was incredibly distant and anticlimactic, and the actual ending was even more of an emotional dodge. Everything honestly felt as though it was done for sake of a writing technique rather than something that was really true to the characters--or true to human nature. Readers who are invested in Isabel and Cole\u2019s story will probably like this one much better than I did. But for me, this story has always been about the boy who became a wolf in winter and the girl who loved him. I am unbearably saddened that their beautiful story has become so diluted and so\u2026mundane. It\u2019s possible a future re-reading may make me look upon this book with a different perspective, but frankly that\u2019s pretty hard to believe at this point. I bleeding heart love Shiver and will always be grateful for the beauty and wisdom and romance it brought into my life. But I will probably be much happier if I forever look upon it as a standalone novel that is perfect in and of itself. It breaks my heart to do this, but this is a 2.5 star book for me. This review also appears in The Midnight Garden . ...more I bought Forever today. It's flowing a lot like Linger did for me. I'm bored, anxious, and not really drawn to this world in this book like I was in Shiver . I'm pretty much just reading so I can find out what ultimately happens in the end. Maggie is such a fabulous writer, but her talent is wasted on writing boring chapters for shallow characters like Cole and Isabel to whom I don't feel connected at all. ) : -- I am now finished with Forever .. I am so utterly disappointed that I'm not sure I can I bought Forever today. It's flowing a lot like Linger did for me. I'm bored, anxious, and not really drawn to this world in this book like I was in Shiver . I'm pretty much just reading so I can find out what ultimately happens in the end. Maggie is such a fabulous writer, but her talent is wasted on writing boring chapters for shallow characters like Cole and Isabel to whom I don't feel connected at all. ) : -- I am now finished with Forever .. I am so utterly disappointed that I'm not sure I can organize my thoughts too well right now. I guess I loved Shiver so much that I expected something of similar quality out of the other two products, especially this final one. I will start by saying, I just don't believe in Grace & Sam's \"love\". I just don't.. I feel like they are just young, damaged teenagers trying to fill a void left by the people who hurt them (but aren't most people?). With this being a fictional relationship I understand there is nothing real about it in the first place, yet I feel Maggie missed the mark if she was trying to depict genuine, consummate love. I could list about 40 supporting details for that claim but I don't think I need to. Moving on: The really interesting-scientific stuff got lost in all of the boring-drama stuff. I do not care about any relationship with Cole or Isabel. I would rather learn more about why the hell the wolf-toxin looks like MALARIA. I wanted answers to this wolf-shifting mystery (what I thought the series was originally about), and I thought for sure I would get them in this last installment. I wanted to know what really makes the wolves/humans shift,<---M> where this came from</---M>, how it works, etc. I also wanted to learn more about Beck, but did I get to? No. And don't get me started on Grace and her parents - Grace is a brat who thinks she's 25 and entitled to anything she wants. Her parents are idiots, but they're still HER PARENTS. I would be enraged if my parents didn't want me to see my boyfriend too, but can you honestly BLAME them? They know nothing about this kid and they find out he's sleeping with their daughter. Grace says it's their fault they know nothing about her life, and she should be able to see Sam..Then disappears and comes back home and demands all of these priviledges. Maybe they would have known about Sam had she bothered to tell them in the first place.. I can't stand Grace and I hate reading about her because she has no personality. All her and Sam do is grope each other and have sex. There is nothing intimate about the whole thing to me. Just because Sam is some sensitive indie-guitar-playing poetry-writing wimp and Grace is some perfectly beautiful summer-girl, it doesn't make their love real to the reader. Not this one, anyway. I could go on and on, but I won't. ...more Let me say this.. Just because I didn't like this book doesn't mean I'm telling everyone not to read it. Everyone has different tastes and different opinions. And if your opinion is to come on MY review and tell me how awesome this book is and that I got it wrong. No I'm pretty sure I read this book correctly ..twice in fact. So keep to yourself, or write your own 5 star review so I can go on it and write \"omg!! You are wrong this book it terrible!! You have to hate it to bc I do!\" Giving it two Let me say this.. Just because I didn't like this book doesn't mean I'm telling everyone not to read it. Everyone has different tastes and different opinions. And if your opinion is to come on MY review and tell me how awesome this book is and that I got it wrong. No I'm pretty sure I read this book correctly ..twice in fact. So keep to yourself, or write your own 5 star review so I can go on it and write \"omg!! You are wrong this book it terrible!! You have to hate it to bc I do!\" Giving it two stars but I will probably drop it down to one the more I think about this book and it's horrible ending. Did she forget to finish the book? Is there a chapter that they accidentally didn't put in the end? I felt like shiver and linger are two totally separate books from this one .. The first two were so good what the hell was this ?? I want my money back...and the more I think about this bull crap about the reader having to decide what happens in the end the more pissed off I get. No Maggie S I do not want to decide what happens in the end!! I want an ending..If I wanted to use my imagination I wouldnt have paid for a book! ...more eeeeeh.... After reading the first two books, which were amazing, I have to say that this book was absolutely PAINFUL for me to read. Maggie is a poet. I will give her that. She painted pictures in my head that were so precise for me that I didn't have to fill in the blanks with my own creations. But that's about all that I'm going to give praise for. The first big thing I had an issue with was that this book was so long and drawn out that the last 15% of the book was action, and then it was over eeeeeh.... After reading the first two books, which were amazing, I have to say that this book was absolutely PAINFUL for me to read. Maggie is a poet. I will give her that. She painted pictures in my head that were so precise for me that I didn't have to fill in the blanks with my own creations. But that's about all that I'm going to give praise for. The first big thing I had an issue with was that this book was so long and drawn out that the last 15% of the book was action, and then it was over and the book was finished. The next big thing was the interrogation with Sam and the officers. It was like she inserted this into the book and then didn't think anything on it again. Tom Culpeper and his family just disappeared without a care in the world, and everyone's problems are solved. Which leads me to my next issue No one will know what happens with Isabel and Cole. Which really does tick me off. If I'm the only one then so be it, but I thought that after all of the \"changing\" that Isabel did she at least deserved a happy ending like Grace and Sam. Same with Cole. He could at least end up with the girl he wants. My God. Which in turn leads me to my next issue. Why on EARTH was Sam so damn annoying in this one. OH MG. I thought I was going to throttle him through the pages. He needed to become a leader a long time ago. It may be the fact that my boyfriend doesn't show his emotions very often, and it's what I've grown used to after 6 years, but please please please grow a pair. Hopefully M's next male protagonist wont be a whining, pining, P. Whipped B. who cries every time his girlfriend leaves the room. Aside from all of the unanswered questions and Sam annoying the hell out of me...the thing that pissed me off the most was the ending. HOW DARE YOU KEEP US WAITING FOR 2 YEARS AND YOU DON'T EVEN GIVE US AN APPROPRIATE ENDING!!!!! What kind of shit is that. I put MY precious time and money into this series and you leave the ending to our imagination!???!?!?! I don't want to use my G.D. imagination I want you to F*#@ing TELL me what the Hell happens to Grace! @$* &^@^%$ #%&$*^ #$^^&%&@%!!!!!!!!!!! If you couldn't tell from my rating I really didn't like the ending of this book, and I think that the ending of a book counts for half of the goodness of the book! WHAT I WANT TO KNOW (unanswered questions) \u25baWhat happened with Grace and her family? \u25baWhat happened with the investigation against Sam regarding Olivia's death and Grace's disappearance? \u25baWhat happens when Grace is injected with Meningitis? \u25baWhat happens with Isabel and Cole? \u25baWhere does Sam stand with the pack, and will he keep on changing? \u25baWhy does the wolf virus look like Malaria? \u25baWhy do the wolves of Mercy Falls continue to change, and why does the change eventually blot out their human-ness? ...more *** THIS IS A REREAD *** I read Forever 3 years ago. I wasn't even properly reviewing books back then...SO NATURALLY I NEEDED TO REREAD IT BECAUSE MAGGIE STEIFVATER IS MY FAVOURITE AUTHOR EVER AND I WILL PASS OUT FROM EXTREME EXCITABLE SHRIEKING IN ATTEMPTS TO GET EVERYONE TO READ HER BOOKS COPIOUSLY. *pauses for breath* I recently reread Shiver , but then skipped straight to Forever because it was lying around the library looking sad and pathetic and NEEDED ME TO ADOPT IT. So I did. I cuddled it *** THIS IS A REREAD *** I read Forever 3 years ago. I wasn't even properly reviewing books back then...SO NATURALLY I NEEDED TO REREAD IT BECAUSE MAGGIE STEIFVATER IS MY FAVOURITE AUTHOR EVER AND I WILL PASS OUT FROM EXTREME EXCITABLE SHRIEKING IN ATTEMPTS TO GET EVERYONE TO READ HER BOOKS COPIOUSLY. *pauses for breath* I recently reread Shiver , but then skipped straight to Forever because it was lying around the library looking sad and pathetic and NEEDED ME TO ADOPT IT. So I did. I cuddled it and read it one day. Because that's who I am. (A massive Steifvaterfan.) So. It was just as wonderful and amazing and extraordinarily written as the first time. EXCEPT I PERHAPS HAVE MORE FEEEELS FOR CERTAIN PEOPLE. Namely: Sam and Cole. Not, um, as a ship. I ship them with their respective better halves. Just SAM AND COLE, THE DARLING WOLFISH, MUSICAL ANGSTY WOLF POPSICLES THAT I LOVE ASTRONOMICALLY HARD. We have to talk CHARACTERS, THO: + COLE: I have to admit Cole has a special place in my heart. There's just no wayt o explain the insanity that is Cole St. Clair. He's like everywhere at once, with a million ideas, probably a suppressed genius, and is absolutely exhausting to look at. I love his humour and his snark and his eccentricities. I LOVE COLE. + SAM: He so moody and agsty and folds paper cranes and writes love songs and loves Grace with every bone in his body. OMG SAM. STAHP. YOU'RE TOO ADORABLE FOR WORDS. He's so entirely quotable and amazing too. Just Sam . He really is the best of anyone. + GRACE: While I love her (I truly do) if I had to rate these foursome, she would come last. I like Grace, but I think she's very...self-involved. I think she is actually a lot like her parents. And she's the kind of nose-in-a-book straight As sort of girl that I read about a lot. STILL. She absolutely leaps off the page like everyone else and I do like her. + ISABEL: BUT I LOVE ISABEL. She's so complicated. She's like the mean \"rich\" girl one moment, and then a melting marshmallow the next. She's so bitter and bitchy and FABULOUS and she doesn't take any crap from anyone and. I. love. Isabel. Her and Cole's relationship is like vinegar and salt. They work SO WELL but they're SO SIMILAR so the clashes are intense. I ship them so hard. Sinner is basically the book of m dreams and soul and mind. And the writing? <---A>Maggie Stiefvater</---A>'s writing is A DREAM. It's so detailed and lush and perfect, and occasionally breaks into a spattering of words over the page when Sam's having a thought-collapse. Everything just flows . And I'm in love with every word. I JUST LOVE EVERYTHING, OKAY?! And don't think she's going to spare you pain. SHE WILL NOT. There is pain in this book. There is so. much. pain. I love wolves. I love Cole and Isabel and Sam and Grace. I love origami. I love Beck's house. I love the winteriness. I love bookshop and Karen when she's like Sam's mum for a second when the cops come for him. I love the food they cook. I love Sam/Grace's mature devotion. I love Isabel/Cole's immature devotion. I like chocolate. I like the bittersweet ending. I like things. All the things. Why is this series over? I could read #5398 books about these characters. ...more \"It was a little after midnight, and I was trying to sleep mostly out of self-defense.\" My initial rating for this book was 4.5 stars. Then, while I was trying to write a review (I say trying because all my attempts have been pretty unsuccessful by my standards), I just went ahead and changed it to 5. It felt like the right thing to do. I suppose it would be easy enough to start pointing out flaws, complain about this and that, compare this book to Linger and especially Shiver , but I don\u2019t want \"It was a little after midnight, and I was trying to sleep mostly out of self-defense.\" My initial rating for this book was 4.5 stars. Then, while I was trying to write a review (I say trying because all my attempts have been pretty unsuccessful by my standards), I just went ahead and changed it to 5. It felt like the right thing to do. I suppose it would be easy enough to start pointing out flaws, complain about this and that, compare this book to Linger and especially Shiver , but I don\u2019t want to do any of that. Not to Forever. The truth is, even if it didn\u2019t have as many breathtaking moments as the two books before it, I was still very happy with how it was done. Besides, Maggie Stiefvater deserved better than that. What she gave me with this trilogy cannot be measured in stars. It cannot be taken apart or put into words. I\u2019d always believed that there\u2019s nothing beyond language, but this time, words really are inadequate. And, my dear GoodReaders, you have no idea how much it costs me to admit it. Maggie Stiefvater has a way of making me see beauty in the simplest things. She doesn\u2019t create it, she just uses her words to point out what was already there and show it in a completely different light. Never before have I stopped to notice the quiet sadness in the most mundane, repetitive moments but it doesn\u2019t surprise me at all that it was Stiefvater who pulled that particular heartstring and woke me up. And I do feel awakened, at least for now. All these characters started as one thing, and ended up as their true selves. People keep talking about Cole and how much he\u2019s grown in Forever, but Grace did too, just in a less obvious way. Cole found purpose, Isabel found softness, Sam found determination and Grace found completion. Honestly, what more can you ask? \"It was like I\u2019d unfolded all my paper crane memories and found something unfamiliar printed on them. Somehow along the way, hope had been folded into one of those birds. My whole life, I had thought that my story was, again and again: Once upon a time, there was a boy, and he had to risk everything to keep what he loved. But the real story was: Once upon a time, there was a boy, and his fear ate him alive. I was done being afraid.\" While rereading these books will certainly not be the same as reading them for the first time, the very fact that I will be rereading them, and probably many times at that, gives me a reason not to say goodbye right now. I can never do this book justice. I will never be able to write anything worthy of Stiefvater\u2019s beautiful prose, so I might as well stop trying. After 1150 pages full of emotions and truth, all I can say is: Thank you . ...more YOU GUYS. With a release date of July 12, I feel that's about all I can say. So since I can't talk about the book, I'd like to take a minute to talk about the acknowledgments section, where Maggie says goodbye to Mercy Falls and the world she created there. It was one of my favorite worlds to read in over the past few years, since first picking up Shiver on a whim at Book Expo in 2009. And when she wrote about Sam and Grace's relationship, and her statement to readers who always ask how they can YOU GUYS. With a release date of July 12, I feel that's about all I can say. So since I can't talk about the book, I'd like to take a minute to talk about the acknowledgments section, where Maggie says goodbye to Mercy Falls and the world she created there. It was one of my favorite worlds to read in over the past few years, since first picking up Shiver on a whim at Book Expo in 2009. And when she wrote about Sam and Grace's relationship, and her statement to readers who always ask how they can find their brand of loyal, enduring love, I couldn't help but get a huge fat emo tear in my eye. I didn't grow up surrounded by healthy relationships and have had to push and shove my way into becoming an adult who can recognize and participate fully in one. So it's no surprise I have a soft spot for working with older tweens and teens who aren't either in that position either. To have a book that I can place into their hands without being totally obvious what I'm trying to point out to them is powerful and I know from those few sentences alone that Maggie gets the importance of it too. I've got so much respect for her and love following her travels or hearing where her next big talk will be. Over the past 48 hours, I've had a hard time trying to explain the series to those who haven't heard of or read it. It's funny to hear myself get choked up with enthusiasm while talking about what is -- essentially - a werewolf book. But the cathartic response I had to finishing the series on my day off from work bathing in the late afternoon sunlight as the wind rustled through the trees was so strong that I'm sure it will stay with me a long time. ...more I just don't know. I feel like I'm betraying myself by not loving this book more. To say I was disappointed in this book, the conclusion to one of my favorite series (okay, really just book , as I had a really hard time with Linger ), is almost giving it too much credit. Disappointment carries with it some emotion, and the problem I had with Forever --much like I did with Maggie's latest, The Scorpio Races --was that I just didn't feel much of anything from it. Sam Roth has been my number one book cr I just don't know. I feel like I'm betraying myself by not loving this book more. To say I was disappointed in this book, the conclusion to one of my favorite series (okay, really just book , as I had a really hard time with Linger ), is almost giving it too much credit. Disappointment carries with it some emotion, and the problem I had with Forever --much like I did with Maggie's latest, The Scorpio Races --was that I just didn't feel much of anything from it. Sam Roth has been my number one book crush for almost two years now, and after Linger crushed my heart into a million pieces on his behalf, I swore up and down I wouldn't read Forever until someone who loved him as much as I did gave me the all-clear. I just needed to know if this book was going to rip out my soul and crush it into dust. It didn't. But it also didn't make me feel much of anything else, either. Maybe my wariness to read translated into a distance from the characters, but even Sam Roth felt like a pale shadow of the boy I'd fallen in love with in Shiver . There was just no substance behind him. Everything he did and felt and said was muted. Even his interaction with Grace was understated to the point of complacency. I didn't need any burning passion between them--that's not their style or the reason I fell in love with them in the first place--but I wanted to feel some strong emotions. I wanted to feel their need for one another. Something more than just Cole telling me their love was more real than anything in the world. Show me that it is. Don't just tell me through someone else's perspective. And speaking of perspectives... the alternating points of view. What purpose did they serve? Cole is an interesting character and played an important role in the plot, but he would have been just as interesting and important through either Grace or Sam's POV. Same goes for Isabel. I like their characters, but their narrations were at best distracting, at worst completely unnecessary. The constant shift in point of view added a lot to my feelings of distance from the story. It felt as though every time I finally started to settle into a character, get my bearings, the tone shifted again. And after three hundred pages of talk, the action was short-lived and didn't even bring full resolution--very few questions posed through two and a half books were answered. (view spoiler) [ What was the point in spending three hundred pages to figure out how to make Beck shift, if we weren't even going to get any answers to WHY he chose Sam, why he brought him into an existence he never wanted? Why have Sam so wrapped up in the angst of it, questioning the only father he's ever known, if in the end he was just going to shrug and say it didn't matter? SO FRUSTRATING. (hide spoiler) ] All in all, a very disappointing end to a story that probably should have ended with the first book, anyway. Shiver took my heart, Linger crushed it, but Forever hardly even touched it. ...more \"There was something vaguely glorious about having a purpose again.\" I have mixed feelings about Forever . The plot is pretty awesome (the second half), and I love Cole and Isabel together, but I\u2019m disappointed with the storyline of Sam and Grace. Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s style is still as amazing in Forever as it was in Shiver and Linger . The story-building and the alternating viewpoints are delineated professionally. The first half of the novel basically gives a sitrep of the characters and is about \"There was something vaguely glorious about having a purpose again.\" I have mixed feelings about Forever . The plot is pretty awesome (the second half), and I love Cole and Isabel together, but I\u2019m disappointed with the storyline of Sam and Grace. Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s style is still as amazing in Forever as it was in Shiver and Linger . The story-building and the alternating viewpoints are delineated professionally. The first half of the novel basically gives a sitrep of the characters and is about waiting for Grace to change back from wolf into human. In the second half a serious threat comes up and the story speeds up: it is filled with danger, thrilling action, tension, uncertainty, unpredictability, sacrifices, and losses. But the ending!! Readers are left in doubt \u2013 I really, really hate it! I want a proof that everyone is happy! Cole & Isabel Cole is unsettling, impudent, confident, and brilliant. And more than this! He overshines everyone. I loved his charisma, and I was amazed by his development, his research, and discoveries. He discovers not only certain things about being a wolf, but important things about being Cole. I had thought there\u2019d be nothing left of me, once you took away the pounding bass of NARKOTIKA and the screams of a few hundred thousand fans and a calendar black with tour dates. But here it was, months later, and it turned out that there was fresh skin underneath the scab I\u2019d picked off. I loved his bitter humor, self-irony, and courage. He gambles with his own body, own life to save the others. I\u2019d planned out a few experiments that didn\u2019t require a lab \u2014 just luck, my body, and some balls. Isabel. She is practical and without hesitation. But she is still building walls around herself. It is very difficult for her to open up. The only one she feels comfortable with is Cole. \u201cCole,\u201d I said, \u201cdo you think I\u2019m lovable?\u201d \u201cMaybe,\u201d he said. \u201cBut you won\u2019t let anybody try.\u201d Sam & Grace Sam is incapable to exist without Grace. His life without her is about waiting, thinking, dreaming, and waiting again. Sam and Grace\u2019s love is said to be beautiful, limitless, and strong, but sadly I couldn\u2019t feel it. There is a distance between them, some kind of alienation, deep melancholy. Sam always hesitates, and hates confrontation. Sam about himself: There was something in my expression that I didn\u2019t recognize, something at once helpless and failing; whoever this Sam was, I didn\u2019t know him. He is often helpless, tends to give up. At the end of the story, he agrees to risk something very important to save his pack. I understand Sam\u2019s it, and I feel sympathy for him, but he merely does what he is told by Cole. Furthermore, it is not clear if (view spoiler) [his sacrifice is temporary or permanent (hide spoiler) ] , and I hate not knowing the long-term consequences of his deed. All in all 5 stars to Cole and Isabel, 2 stars to Sam and Grace. Originally posted on my blog on September 3, 2012. My favorite quotes. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I wanted to start this review selfishly. I even wrote \"I'm going to be selfish and begin this review by saying...\", but decided against it after thinking for several minutes. I realized something during that time - I still couldn't extricate myself from the characters of the book, even though it was over. And I felt bad for it. Another epiphany occurred moments later. This isn't supposed to happen. You read the book(s), you learn about the characters, you love them (or hate them), and you let the I wanted to start this review selfishly. I even wrote \"I'm going to be selfish and begin this review by saying...\", but decided against it after thinking for several minutes. I realized something during that time - I still couldn't extricate myself from the characters of the book, even though it was over. And I felt bad for it. Another epiphany occurred moments later. This isn't supposed to happen. You read the book(s), you learn about the characters, you love them (or hate them), and you let them go. That's what made this process - my personal goodbye to Grace, Sam, Cole, and Isabel - so painful. I didn't want to let them go. I'm sure I've said it before: I aspire to write as well as Maggie Stiefvater. At sixteen, there are many things I have to improve about my writing, and many more things I have to learn in order to do so. I honestly feel like reading this series has pushed me in the right direction. Stiefvater's writing flows so beautifully and seamlessly, and it appears easy and natural. To me, Forever is just one big favorite quote. The characters. I don't think I've been as emotionally invested in any book's characters as much as the ones in this trilogy. They're all so perfectly nuanced and deep. A conversation between Cole and Isabel could make me laugh out loud, and fifty pages later another dialogue between them reduce me to tears. Sam and Grace, I believe, are the golden couple. As much as I would love to have Sam for myself, he truly belongs with Grace, and I'm happy with the way the book ended. I could go on and on about the characters, especially the way Stiefvater threw in small details and thoughts that caused them to come alive. Instead, I'll conclude this review by not saying goodbye. Sam, Grace, Isabel, Cole, and Mercy Falls will remain in my heart. Forever. *cross-posted from my blog, the quiet voice . ...more \u201cPeople shouldn't have to earn kindness. They should have to earn cruelty.\u201d I think what kept me from reading Forever years ago, was my fear that something depressing would happen to Grace and Sam. But most of all I didn't want the series to end, because I loved it so much. Some books just make you feel happy from inside out, they give you the feeling of being home between their pages. That's what The Wolves of Mercy Falls is for me. And this last part of the series, was as good as the first \u201cPeople shouldn't have to earn kindness. They should have to earn cruelty.\u201d I think what kept me from reading Forever years ago, was my fear that something depressing would happen to Grace and Sam. But most of all I didn't want the series to end, because I loved it so much. Some books just make you feel happy from inside out, they give you the feeling of being home between their pages. That's what The Wolves of Mercy Falls is for me. And this last part of the series, was as good as the first and second one. ...more It's a testament to how well the author can write that I am in love with this book as I have always read books about supernatural/paranormal romance, but I have always had a fastidious distaste of werewolves. I got this book by accident, and when I found out it was about werewolves, I didn't want to read it. But the cover (the uk cover) was so beautiful that I couldn't help but read it. I fell in love with the book and its fluid plot line along with the gorgeous descriptive writing from Sam's ey It's a testament to how well the author can write that I am in love with this book as I have always read books about supernatural/paranormal romance, but I have always had a fastidious distaste of werewolves. I got this book by accident, and when I found out it was about werewolves, I didn't want to read it. But the cover (the uk cover) was so beautiful that I couldn't help but read it. I fell in love with the book and its fluid plot line along with the gorgeous descriptive writing from Sam's eyes to the woods that Grace haunts. I really am hooked on this book, and it takes a very good author to make someone change genre. So its a 5 star review from me on both Shiver and Linger, and I am excitedly awaiting Forever. Also, this book really did make me cry, both from joy and sadness, though don't let that deter you. ...more We apparently have a different opinion on what \"forever\" means. :S First and foremost, To Whomever wrote that synopsis or whatever up at the top, \"thrilling\" is not a word that I would use to describe the first 250 pages... Basically, I did not like this installment. More often than not it was a bore and a chore to get through. And I hate typing that! Shiver is still one of my favorite novels ever, and I did enjoy Linger , though not quite as much. This whole series and its progression really got We apparently have a different opinion on what \"forever\" means. :S First and foremost, To Whomever wrote that synopsis or whatever up at the top, \"thrilling\" is not a word that I would use to describe the first 250 pages... Basically, I did not like this installment. More often than not it was a bore and a chore to get through. And I hate typing that! Shiver is still one of my favorite novels ever, and I did enjoy Linger , though not quite as much. This whole series and its progression really got me wondering why it is that nearly EVERY non-contemp YA book is being turned into a trilogy/series, because with each book I felt a little less magic. A little less pizazz. Why specifically did Forever not work for me? First of all, it seemed overly dramatic in a way that Shiver and Linger were not. If you thought that any of the first two books were slow or prone to melodrama (as I know that others have said), then in my opinion, you may find Forever challenging. Unlike most finale books in a series, it is not more fast-paced. In my opinion, it actually seemed slower. There were several periods throughout most of the chapters when the characters - especially Sam - would have these really long, drawn out personal reflections. Flashbacks would occur randomly, and I'd say for about the first 200 pages, the plot just kind of meandered along. Characters would drift in and out of contact, and oh the angst. Yeah, the series has always been dramatic, emotional too, but I never thought the angst was overdone until now. Sam - whom I absolutely adored in Shiver - just kind of moped around and really didn't do much of anything but feel sorry for himself. Cole sat around thinking about how his life used to be. Grace kept shifting and bolting. One or two times and it's dramatic, but four times? Then it just gets downright annoying, I'm sorry to say. I don't like it when authors have things happen over and over again with the same results. In my playbook, that's repetition, not suspense or excitement. For me, though, I could have forgotten the slow start and the aggravating parts but for the ending. Guys, when you hear the word \"forever,\" what do you think of? Maybe if you're like me, you hear Squints from The Sandlot pulling out the word like \"foooooorrreeeevvveeeerrrr\" over and over (haha). But you think of something that has closure, right? For me, it's practically false advertising when you've got the final book in a series titled something permanent sounding like Forever , and the ending doesn't have a whole lot of closure. I get it, really I do. I get that it's bad to give teen characters any kind of \"permanent closure,\" because after all, they're only 18, right? For me, though, it does not work to feed me a story, a fictional story (that really is not in the least bit obligated to reflect, endorse, or champion \"reality\") in which characters have this serious, mature, real-deal love...and then turn around and leave the ending open-ended. Did I expect the kind of ending that was found in the epilogue of Deathly Hallows ? Well, maybe. And really, who knows better how to end a [modern] YA series than JK Rowing? I also kind of took issue with the last chapter in general, really. Grace, to me, made a decision that seemed extremely out-of-character for her, given her relationship and previous history with Sam. All I'm wanting is for a series ending to accurately reflect the series as a whole, and here, it was my perception that the author pulled back a little and went with a more \"realistic\" ending. And that just didn't work for me in a series like this. I realize that was a really long, lengthy (and highly opinionated) explanation, but I do feel like I need to explain what it was that left me disappointed. ...more Bir seri daha bitti. Bu seri tempo a\u00e7\u0131s\u0131ndan \u00e7ok de\u011fi\u015fken bir seriydi bana g\u00f6re. Ebedi'yi okurken ilk ba\u015flarda o kadar s\u0131k\u0131ld\u0131m ki bitse de ba\u015fka bir \u015feyler okusam, dedim. 120-130. sayfaya zor geldim a\u00e7\u0131k\u00e7as\u0131. Sonras\u0131nda kitap daha okunas\u0131 bir hale geldi ve okurken s\u0131k\u0131lmamaya ba\u015flad\u0131m ama beni fazla s\u00fcr\u00fcnd\u00fcrd\u00fc o k\u0131sma kadar ya. Son sayfalar\u0131 h\u0131zl\u0131 ge\u00e7ti, neyse ki biraz heyecan yaratay\u0131m diye d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnm\u00fc\u015f yazar fakat kitap genel anlamda \"okudum, bitti, eh i\u015fte sevdim ya\" ayar\u0131ndayd\u0131. Okudum bitti ba Bir seri daha bitti. Bu seri tempo a\u00e7\u0131s\u0131ndan \u00e7ok de\u011fi\u015fken bir seriydi bana g\u00f6re. Ebedi'yi okurken ilk ba\u015flarda o kadar s\u0131k\u0131ld\u0131m ki bitse de ba\u015fka bir \u015feyler okusam, dedim. 120-130. sayfaya zor geldim a\u00e7\u0131k\u00e7as\u0131. Sonras\u0131nda kitap daha okunas\u0131 bir hale geldi ve okurken s\u0131k\u0131lmamaya ba\u015flad\u0131m ama beni fazla s\u00fcr\u00fcnd\u00fcrd\u00fc o k\u0131sma kadar ya. Son sayfalar\u0131 h\u0131zl\u0131 ge\u00e7ti, neyse ki biraz heyecan yaratay\u0131m diye d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnm\u00fc\u015f yazar fakat kitap genel anlamda \"okudum, bitti, eh i\u015fte sevdim ya\" ayar\u0131ndayd\u0131. Okudum bitti bay\u0131ld\u0131m bee demeyi \u00e7ok isterdim ama yok yani. Tekrar s\u00f6yl\u00fcyorum, serinin en b\u00fcy\u00fck problemi aksiyona yeterince yer vermeyi\u015fi. Daha \u00e7ok Grace ve Sam a\u015fk\u0131na odakl\u0131 ilerliyor hikaye. D\u00f6rt karakterin (Sam, Grace, Isabel ve Cole'un) bak\u0131\u015f a\u00e7\u0131s\u0131yla anlatmay\u0131 tercih etmi\u015f yine yazar. O a\u00e7\u0131dan da bir s\u0131k\u0131nt\u0131 yok benim i\u00e7in. Tek s\u0131k\u0131nt\u0131m: Neden. Daha. Heyecanl\u0131. De\u011fildi? Herhangi bir kitab\u0131 okurken s\u00fcr\u00fcnmemeyi tercih ederim. Ebedi ilk ba\u015fta s\u00fcr\u00fcnd\u00fcr\u00fcp sonradan sevdirdi kendini. Kurt adaml\u0131 kitaplar\u0131 sevenler bu kitab\u0131 d\u00fc\u015f\u00fck aksiyonlu bulabilirler ama yok illa eksik kalmas\u0131n, ben bunu da okumak istiyorum derseniz anlat\u0131m\u0131 g\u00fczel bir a\u015fk roman\u0131 okumu\u015f olursunuz. Not: karakterler arada bir kurda d\u00f6n\u00fc\u015f\u00fcyor sadece. Edit; Uzun kitap yorumum i\u00e7in -> Zeynep's Library ...more I'm almost afraid to read this. Shiver was a difficult toil for me, but the ending captured my heart and held it. I fell for Linger right away, probably due to Cole and Isabel, and the further development of Grace and Sam's relationship. It's all so heartwarming, so poetic and beautiful. And yet - I fear for this one. I've read some worrying reviews. I'm afraid that, if I read this, not only will the trilogy finally be over, but I won't be happy with the resolution. I'm afraid that it'll lose the I'm almost afraid to read this. Shiver was a difficult toil for me, but the ending captured my heart and held it. I fell for Linger right away, probably due to Cole and Isabel, and the further development of Grace and Sam's relationship. It's all so heartwarming, so poetic and beautiful. And yet - I fear for this one. I've read some worrying reviews. I'm afraid that, if I read this, not only will the trilogy finally be over, but I won't be happy with the resolution. I'm afraid that it'll lose the magic, or it won't touch my heart like the others did, or it won't live up to the wait that I so painfully endured. I will read it, but I'm going to give it time. I'm going to try to remind myself that this was only a three-book ride, and it had to end sometime. I'm going to try to remind myself that even if I don't like it, even if it doesn't end in a way that shocks or touches or captivates me, there was a reason why Ms. Stiefvater did what she did, and we must respect that. Unfortunately. ...more I know this series is a hit or miss series, and for most it's a miss, but for me this was a hit. I love the characters too much to hate this story. I am absolutely happy with the conclusion to this story. There are a few unanswered questions at the end but knowing Sinner exists I'm not upset about them. I just adored this trilogy and this is actually one of those series that I think about sometimes without realizing it. It makes me nostalgic for twilight since its basically the wolves story in t I know this series is a hit or miss series, and for most it's a miss, but for me this was a hit. I love the characters too much to hate this story. I am absolutely happy with the conclusion to this story. There are a few unanswered questions at the end but knowing Sinner exists I'm not upset about them. I just adored this trilogy and this is actually one of those series that I think about sometimes without realizing it. It makes me nostalgic for twilight since its basically the wolves story in twilight of vampires didn't exist and Bella met only Jacob and it just makes me happy. ...more Buddy read with Claudia <3 3.5 I love Maggie Stiefvater, I truly do. She's not my favourite author, but she is among my favourites, and her Raven Cycle is one of my favourite series of all time. And I fell for The Scorpio Races when I read it. The Wolves of Mercy Falls isn't a disappointment, because I expected not to like it like TRC and at some point I had even decided not to read it, but I can't give it more than 3 stars. I couldn't help but notice that this Stiefvater is different than the Buddy read with Claudia <3 3.5 I love Maggie Stiefvater, I truly do. She's not my favourite author, but she is among my favourites, and her Raven Cycle is one of my favourite series of all time. And I fell for The Scorpio Races when I read it. The Wolves of Mercy Falls isn't a disappointment, because I expected not to like it like TRC and at some point I had even decided not to read it, but I can't give it more than 3 stars. I couldn't help but notice that this Stiefvater is different than the one I've come to love. Some things are already there - the writing is beautiful, the characters are well developed, as always - but the plot is rather...flimsy. And there are more tropes. Take Grace's parents, for example, and you have one of the most common tropes of ya literature: bad, absent parents. I guess it's normal, because Shiver was Maggie's debut, but still, these are things that bothered me in her (unfinished, dammit) series about Fae and they bothered me in this one too. I still liked the series, but I'd recommend her latest books more. I liked Sam and Grace. I think it's wonderful that Maggie can portray different characters and stories, and Sam and Grace's story is extremely different from Puck and Sean's or Blue and Gansey's. I can't say that I liked Sam and Grace as much as the others, because I find very difficult to imagine a love story like theirs, but I do find them rather cute and romantic. And for all his flaws, I like Sam too. He's not your average ya male character, and I liked that. I also started to appreciate Cole. I definitely saw how much his character has grown and I liked reading from his POV so much that I could try to read Sinner because of that. His friendship with Sam and Grace was quite cute, I have to say that. The bad stuff has a name: Isabel. Isabel is everything I hate thrown into a single character. She's one of those people who think that being bitchy is being funny. She's a whiny, self-centered asshat who just insults people and then doesn't do anything. People could die and all she does is be mean and complain because her parents could be angry with her. And I could keep going about this. She's the reason why I don't know whether I want to read Sinner or not. The plot was rather flimsy. Everything was based on this big, final scene that was rather anticlimatic in the end. Before that nothing happened to be honest. This is why Forever doesn't get the fourth star. It's good and it flows and the writing is great. But it's not enough. ...more :Spoilers: This series has been one long roller-coaster of pure emotional agony from the very first book till it hits the very last page in the third and final installment in, Forever . We have shared epic love, sorrow and an adventure with these characters that I have never had the pleasure to do with other books. The writing is truly like a piece of art work. I'm sad to see this gorgeous series go and while I had my moments, both the good and the bad, these books will always be treasured in my h :Spoilers: This series has been one long roller-coaster of pure emotional agony from the very first book till it hits the very last page in the third and final installment in, Forever . We have shared epic love, sorrow and an adventure with these characters that I have never had the pleasure to do with other books. The writing is truly like a piece of art work. I'm sad to see this gorgeous series go and while I had my moments, both the good and the bad, these books will always be treasured in my heart. I swear , there is nothing like reading a Maggie Stiefvater book. Her whimsical words are like magic to a drowning person, desperate to finally get what we've been craving for nearly a year. Maggie's writing is pure art, pure poetry and I'll never get tired of it. I love these characters, but I think Cole should take a bow in this book. I actually got to liking him much more in this round, he's still erratic and a bit of a punk, but I admired his dedication and strength and when honest, is truly something to witness. Isabel will always be a character that I will enjoy, I love her stubbornness and fire. I wish we had more scenes between Sam and Grace in the beginning. The wait was truly painful. But what moments we did get were well worth the wait. I don't have to much to say about Grace's parents, except that they got more then they deserved in my opinion. As for Beck? <3!!!!!! Sam and Grace is a couple that will always be unforgettable in my eyes and heart. They have such a passion and such a love that people only dream about. I have never wanted so much for one couple before and never knew one that deserved it as much as these two. Reading this book was slow exhausting torture, but in the sweetest way possible. My stomach was in knots wanting so desperately for it to turn out with a HEA, almost needing it to the point of physical pain. I kid you not. Ever page was laced with a teasing tone of uncertainty which made the experience that much thicker, richer and earned an appreciation I didn't think could exist even more then what I already feel for it. As for the ending, well, I feel that I should be truthful. Was I satisfied? Yes and...no. I'm content, lets put it that way, but I feel that the biggest question still lingered and I hate that I'll forever be thinking about it every time I visit this world again. It ended on the tone that pretty much described the entire series. With mystery and suspense and above all, hope. So if your looking for an ending with absolute closure, you wont find it here my friends. I wish there was a few more pages or a few last final lines that would make it all okay. But there wasn't and apart of me is very sad about that. So...I'm just going to have to hold on to what Cole wisely said; \"The thing I was beginning to figure out about Sam and Grace, the thing about Sam not being able to function without her, was that that sort of love only worked when you were sure both people would always be around for each other. If one half of the equation left, or died, or was slightly less perfect in their love, it became the most tragic, pathetic story invented, laughable in it's absurdity. Without Grace, Sam was a joke without a punch line.\" ...and so with that, I believe Grace and Sam do get their happily ever after...cause it would be wrong to imagine anything less. They will be missed. Congrats to Maggie on the success of her The Wolves of Mercy Falls series. I will never forget them and look forward to your next new adventure. Bravo! ...more Actual rating: 3.5 stars In a recent Q&A discussion, Maggie Stiefvater mentioned that she loves to write books that will make you cry your little eyes out. And I did...for Shiver . I'm not sure what it is, but Linger and Forever just did not string up the same emotions. Did I enjoy them? Sure. But the magic just wasn't there like it was in Shiver. Forever picks up a few weeks after the events in Linger . Sam is pretty much going through the motions until Grace shifts back into human form. The n Actual rating: 3.5 stars In a recent Q&A discussion, Maggie Stiefvater mentioned that she loves to write books that will make you cry your little eyes out. And I did...for Shiver . I'm not sure what it is, but Linger and Forever just did not string up the same emotions. Did I enjoy them? Sure. But the magic just wasn't there like it was in Shiver. Forever picks up a few weeks after the events in Linger . Sam is pretty much going through the motions until Grace shifts back into human form. The new threat in the novel is Isabel's father attempting to get the wolves taken off the protective list and Shelby, the crazy she-wolf, attacking and murdering new pack members. Now, while the sparks didn't exactly fly between Forever and I, there were a few things that I did really enjoy about this book: 1. Maggie has such beautiful prose. It is undeniable. I LOVED it. Her writing style calls to me and speaks my soul's language. I think this is most quotes I have \"liked\" from just one book. I could quote her books all day long because it is so poetic. She just has a wonderful way with words that can invoke so much feeling with so few words. This book can easily be described as \"emo,\" but never comes across as too much teen angst. The feelings the characters displayed seemed very realistic and believable to me. 2. Cole. Need I say more? Dude is made of that special flavor of awesome sauce. His witty, comedic voice was the fudge icing on my German chocolate cake. YUM. 3. Grace's relationship with her parents. In a lot of YA novels these days, parents are conveniently out of the picture while out hero or heroine is running of saving the world. Usually, this is unrealistic. However, I really liked how this was handled in this series. Yes, Grace's parents are not around, BUT this is acknowledged that it wasn't a good thing or normal. In fact, Grace confronts her parents in Forever about this. I think this was important to address because Grace needed her parents and was forced to grow up without them. 4. Isabel's feelings about Jack. They were so spot on for how a sibling feels about losing the other. So accurate. One main problem I had with this book was that every time something big or interesting was about to happen to one of the characters, it immediately switches to another character's POV. As a result, a lot of the action happens \"off-screen\" and we are later told about it through another POV. I found this irritating. (view spoiler) [For example: I would have really liked to see more of Cole's experiments, the science behind the Wolf, and most importantly, Beck's capture! (hide spoiler) ] I'm not entirely sure how I liked the ending. On one hand, I think it is a very realistic end and it works. But on the other, I feel like it just *ends*. It didn't really disappoint me, but it didn't satisfy me either. All in all, this series was a good read and I'm really looking forward to future works from Maggie Stiefvater. More reviews and more at Cuddlebuggery Book Blog . ...more For me, reading this book hurt like hell. I don't think I've ever cried so much in my life. Not at funerals, not when I nearly broke my leg last winter on black ice, not when I saw the statistics of how much our music industry sucks right now---never. It was like Maggie S. stabbed a knife into my heart, and every time something bad happened, she twisted it a little more. Melodramatic, yes, but it's the best comparison I can think of for now. Sad thing is, I'm not even crying because of the plot or s For me, reading this book hurt like hell. I don't think I've ever cried so much in my life. Not at funerals, not when I nearly broke my leg last winter on black ice, not when I saw the statistics of how much our music industry sucks right now---never. It was like Maggie S. stabbed a knife into my heart, and every time something bad happened, she twisted it a little more. Melodramatic, yes, but it's the best comparison I can think of for now. Sad thing is, I'm not even crying because of the plot or story---sure, that was a major impact on the depression, too, the fact that life loves to torture Grace, Sam, Isabel, and Cole, but that still wasn't why I'm so upset. I swear, Stiefvater has a flawless talent for making readers feel the narrators' emotions. Every time Sam and Grace hugged, I felt a grin split across my face, every time Cole contemplated suicide I clenched my fist. Reading one of those Mercy Falls books is like stepping into a mine field of feelings. I'm going to focus on Isabel for the moment. Isabel. I've read quite a few books where a character reminded me of myself: Claire from The Body Finder , Alice from Twilight , Emily from Emily the Strange: The Lost Days ... But none of them slapped me in the face like Isabel did. See, being a pessimist/realist, I generally have a rather gloomy outlook on things. I curse the past and laugh at the future. Isabel was like some of my most depressing opinions written down. Sure, I hear them all the time in my own mind, but seeing them on paper and thinking, \"Wow, the only other person I've ever met that thinks the same way as me is a fictional character.\" Ouch. I also loved how she was never sure of her relationships. She wasn't sure if she liked Sam or if she wanted to kick him in the face, if she wanted to console Grace or tell her to suck it up, if she wanted to kiss Cole or slap him and tell him to get a hold of himself. Again, ouch. Cole was at his peak in every way in this book. He was funniest, with his little black Mustang. He was saddest, with talking about his only purpose being to find Grace's cure. He was reckless, trying out potentially deadly concoctions on himself. Another thing about Cole I admired was how he constantly underestimated himself. Sam and Isabel thought he was stupid, when the entire time, he was the smartest of all of them. He did stupid stuff, but it never really his the genius that he actually was. It was nice seeing a faint glimmer of hope throughout this depressing story. The plot was intricate, but somehow never boring. I kept putting it down and going for random snack breaks, which actually means I liked it. I don't know why, but I always like to prolong the suspense at some parts so that when I read the actual thing it's just that much greater. The story was neither too fast or too slow, but a happy medium. It never got to dull and it never got so fired up that I was like \"Wait... Huh?\" Perfect balance. Oh, and Sam. Sam, Sam, Sam. Sam. Thanks to him, I can't pick my favorite male character of all time. I'm stuck between Cole, Sam, Logan Keeley, and Zachary Moore (Sorry, Sam, but no boy protagonist gets past one of my reviews without being compared to Zach.) Now whenever someone asks me to choice one, this, like, mini war breaks out inside me: One side going \"YAY! SAM AND COLE ARE THE BEST! THEY ARE SO REALISTIC AND DESERVE HAPPINESS!\" While the other is like \"ZACHARY AND LOGAN PWN!\" I CAN'T CHOOSE, PEOPLE, I CAN'T CHOOSE! Anyway, this book is also very useful for verbal comeback training, or whatever you want to call it. I swear, the next time anyone throws something at me I'm just gonna say \"Do that again, and I will sell you're first born child to the devil\" and then laugh at the inside joke. Aah Isabel. The picture doesn't have too much to do with the statement, but I friggin love that video :) I'm mad at Goodreads. They should have a 6 star rating, just for this book. 5 just isn't enough. I love GIFs. I really do. That's why I always have to add them onto these reviews. I tried searching on Google for a good crying one, but they all sucked. So instead I looked up GIFs from the video \"I Don't Love You.\" Coolest crying picture ever: ...more More of my reviews can be found at Flipping Through the Pages ! This is going to be an incredibly difficult review. Shiver had me interested, however it wasn't my favourite, Linger was even better and again, Maggie had me a snivelling wreck throughout the book. As for Forever? Oh, I wanted to love it, I really really did. There were bits I loved but honestly, my emotions were ALL OVER THE PLACE whilst reading that I just can't love it the way I loved Linger especially. Forever explores Isabel's and More of my reviews can be found at Flipping Through the Pages ! This is going to be an incredibly difficult review. Shiver had me interested, however it wasn't my favourite, Linger was even better and again, Maggie had me a snivelling wreck throughout the book. As for Forever? Oh, I wanted to love it, I really really did. There were bits I loved but honestly, my emotions were ALL OVER THE PLACE whilst reading that I just can't love it the way I loved Linger especially. Forever explores Isabel's and Cole's relationship, this really pleased me because Isabel and Cole are two of my favourite literary characters ever. They're both just so messed up in the head and real that I can't help but want the two to hurry up and be in a relationship. I was once again impressed with Isabel's character, due to the fact that she actually gave a shit that her brother died. In alot of YA novels, a character's family member or friend may die, and said character then finds true love and forgets all about their lost loved one. This seriously pisses me off and I'm so so glad that even though Isabel's feelings for Cole were blossoming, she didn't forget the fact that she just happened to lose her brother a few months earlier. Her inner dialogue really made me sympathise with her because in reality, which Wolves of Mercy Falls manages to portray, this very real depression happens. As for Cole, I really grew to love Cole. His presence sort of annoyed me in Linger because I didn't know why he was even in the story and I thought that he was just added as a balm for Isabel's pain. However, Cole proved to be extremely intelligent and emotional in this installment and reminded me of many guys I know - not the whole rockstar thing, but the hiding the true emotion thing. In regards to Grace and Sam's relationship. I was disappointed. If you happened to turn into a wolf and hadn't seen your love for months on end, would you not be DESPERATE to find them? I mean, I know Grace was a wolf and wolves forget their human memories and feelings and all that jazz but AFTER SHE TURNS BACK INTO A HUMAN , she FORGETS his name. WTF. She redeemed herself in my eyes when she finally went off her face at her dimwitted parents - her father in particular. As for Sam, well, if you've read my reviews of Shiver and Linger on Goodreads or on my blog , you will know how much of a Sam fangirl I am. That hasn't changed. This installment took me an incredible amount of time to get into, I was over halfway the book when last night, I decided I was going to finished this series and because I found myself more invested in the book then I had the last couple of days. I stayed up until 3 AM . The ball finally started rolling and I really got into this installment (view spoiler) [when Officer Koenig figured out the wolf situation (hide spoiler) ] . When the ball started rolling, the tears started to flow. (view spoiler) [Beck and Sam's conversation was heartbreaking and this quote undone me... \"And it that split second, as Beck's face turned toward the ceiling, his eyes unchanging, I saw my own face\" . Really, this entire scene had me in tears, but that last sentence made me BAWL. (hide spoiler) ] . At one point, after Cole was done waiting for the wolves to come and when he saw Sam and Shelby, I went crazy. These last few chapters had my emotions swinging one way to the other and I had emotional whiplash. One minute I was crying, then I was happy, the next minute I was angry at Maggie for ONE particular scene (view spoiler) [I mean \"KILLING\" COLE in such a terrible, fast way, and \"KILLING\" HIM FULLSTOP. Also, I saw Beck's death coming but I didn't start crying until Sam was on the ground (hide spoiler) ] . After said particular scene, I felt numb and angry. I didn't even cry when I normally would have because I was in shock. THEN Maggie pulls another stunt, which made me happy again (view spoiler) [Cole actually living, I sort of expected it but it still made me immensely happy (hide spoiler) ] . The entire second half of this installment had me going nuts with emotion and then, it just ended. Just like that. I was so so incredibly disappointed and I was extremely upset with the way it ended, because it didn't leave me with any closure, it just left me wondering if I had a dodgy copy and if pages were missing. I mean, I STAYED UP UNTIL 3AM FOR IT TO END LIKE THAT? . Due to that, and the slow beginning, it really pains me to give this a three star rating because if it ended differently, this series could have easily been up there with some of my other favourites. I'm afraid I can't say that anymore. ...more As I progressed through Forever, I tried to keep an open mind that it was going to get better. I had seen the mixed reviews on GR, so I did know it probability was high that I was not going to love it. However, after that\u2026that\u2026 \u201cending\u201d , I can only cough up two stars. I really think the author was bored with this series and its characters before she attempted to write the third. This one had no emotion, and it was dare I say boring . Likes: The covers of all three are very pretty, and if you read pa As I progressed through Forever, I tried to keep an open mind that it was going to get better. I had seen the mixed reviews on GR, so I did know it probability was high that I was not going to love it. However, after that\u2026that\u2026 \u201cending\u201d , I can only cough up two stars. I really think the author was bored with this series and its characters before she attempted to write the third. This one had no emotion, and it was dare I say boring . Likes: The covers of all three are very pretty, and if you read paper, you get the treat of beautiful colored font. I was lucky enough to get a kindle loan from a friend for this one, so I did not have to pay for the crap\u2014oh wait, this is my \u2018like\u2019s\u201d area. Oh---uh, so I didn\u2019t get to see the colored copy of Forever. Dislikes: *The four points of view. It seemed ok in Linger because there was more going on. Isabell and Cole would break in when I would start to get interested. I didn\u2019t give a crap what they were doing. Isabell stomps around pissed all the time, and Cole is just there. *Sam and Grace, who are supposed to be soul mates, reunite after two months, and when Grace wakes up, she goes and talks to Cole first, then finds some food, and THEN looks for Sam? WTF. Anticlimactic and lame. *The End SUCKS. I think she admitted to herself the book was dull, so she just gave up and said \u201coh well I will leave it open\u201d. The End. What a rip off. ...more In a nutshell: I really liked it. Not quite as much as the first two books, but I still liked it. There were a lot of things I really appreciated about this series. I'm not a huge fan of paranormal romance because they all tend to be exactly the same, so I like that the Wolves of Mercy Falls had its unique traits. For example, Maggie Stiefvater actually bothered to create her own werewolf mythology/rules/etc. and not just, \"I'm a werewolf ... just because.\" I really like the world she created and In a nutshell: I really liked it. Not quite as much as the first two books, but I still liked it. There were a lot of things I really appreciated about this series. I'm not a huge fan of paranormal romance because they all tend to be exactly the same, so I like that the Wolves of Mercy Falls had its unique traits. For example, Maggie Stiefvater actually bothered to create her own werewolf mythology/rules/etc. and not just, \"I'm a werewolf ... just because.\" I really like the world she created and what she did with her idea. Secondly, I really like her writing style. It's kind of a shame that her first popular series had to be a werewolf series because it caused people to go into it thinking, \"Oh, this is going to be exactly like Twilight\" and therefore losing respect for her. And yeah, there is a lot of mushy-gushy stuff in the series. But I see a lot of potential in Stiefvater's writing and ideas and I expect even greater things to come from her in the future. Thirdly, I'm so glad there was no love triangle in these books. I'm so effing sick of love triangles that the very idea often makes me want to explode. When I first heard about Cole coming into the series I was like, \"Oh no ...\" But thankfully, he was not a threat to the main relationship. I really liked him and Isabel as a couple. And I like that Grace is dedicated to Sam and not going around, leading on every boy who comes along. I mean, she's not the greatest character on the planet, but at least she's a somewhat better role model than many YA heroines (if you could even call them that) out there. So, yeah. Writing, story, characters ... Good stuff. There were only a couple of issues I had with this book in particular. 1) The whole thing with Koenig ... (view spoiler) [how he just conveniently believes in werewolves and is able to help them all out. It was kind of a big cop-out. No pun intended. (hide spoiler) ] 2) The ending didn't leave me with much of a sense of closure. Usually when I finish a series I really like, I'm left with this powerful feeling\u2013\u2013this cross between satisfaction and sadness that the series is over. For example, I finished reading Goliath by Scott Westerfeld yesterday, and when I finished it, I was like, \"OMG THAT WAS SO GOOD. BUT NOOOO IT'S OVER. *SOBS*\" With Forever , I didn't really feel that way. It left me with more of an empty feeling, like I didn't think things had quite been tied together. I think the main issue was that it all seemed really rushed. Pretty much the whole ending happened within the last 20-30 pages or so. The first two books also had somewhat rushed endings, but at least there was more buildup to them and I found the endings more satisfactory. (view spoiler) [This was like, \"PEOPLE SHOOTING WOLVES. Now they're gone. Beck's dead. Shelby's dead. Cole's dead. Just kidding, Cole's not dead. We're all leaving Mercy Falls. THE END.\" And it felt like it was all happening a bit too fast. (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [I also had a believability issue with the ending. I just couldn't bring myself to believe that Grace's parents would trust her to go off to Norway. I'd think they'd be pretty suspicious especially after her dad had so many issues with Sam. But, oh well. (hide spoiler) ] Anyway, in the end it was a good book and I enjoyed it. I just felt it wasn't as good as the first two and didn't leave me feeling as satisfied as I wished it would. ...more FOREVER BY MAGGIE STIEFVATER This really pains me, but I did not enjoy FOREVER. This is a book that I have been looking forward to reading for a year. One year and ten days actually. So, I should have just powered through it\u2026loved on it, rolled within the pages and then lamented on the end of an era. Sadly though, it was not to be. I actually had a hard time finishing this one? Don\u2019t hate me, but it\u2019s true. Stiefvater\u2019s token prose actually grated on me and her descriptions dragged instead of tit FOREVER BY MAGGIE STIEFVATER This really pains me, but I did not enjoy FOREVER. This is a book that I have been looking forward to reading for a year. One year and ten days actually. So, I should have just powered through it\u2026loved on it, rolled within the pages and then lamented on the end of an era. Sadly though, it was not to be. I actually had a hard time finishing this one? Don\u2019t hate me, but it\u2019s true. Stiefvater\u2019s token prose actually grated on me and her descriptions dragged instead of titillated. I was literally yawning through the first 100 pages and forcing myself to just finish \u2013 hoping for redemption. Grace is a wolf and Sam is left behind as a human with Cole St. Clair and Isabel. Sam is a bit down and out because of his girlfriend being stuck in a four-legged state and the fact that everyone in town thinks he killed her. Cole St. Clair is busy dealing with his new \u201cunstar\u201d state and a slight obsession with Isabel and the fact that he is pretty sure his brain can whip up a cure for their werewolf. Then there is Isabel, who finds out her father is calling in the big guns to hunt down the wolves and when one wolf kills again \u2013 the townspeople will do anything to support him even round up some helicopters and sharp shooters. Will the trio be able to save the wolves in time? Will they be able to work together long enough to even come up with a plan? This physically hurts me to write this review but I actually felt that Sam was a moping mess most of this book and I literally wanted to scream \u201cGet your head out of your butt emo boy!\u201d Then the Cole and Isabel dynamic was trying. I really felt that the first 100 pages were just a big sobbing mess of descriptions and angsty lamenting about how their life sucks. Then when the action did pick up and a certain minor but featured character dies off \u2013 there was very little reaction. Then swoosh into the action and it rolled right into the ending. Then there was the ending. I just felt deflated it was anti-climatic. Where was the wrap-up? Was I missing something? I felt like through this entire book nothing was accomplished! I\u2019m having an urge to rant \u2013 and please feel free to let me know if you feel the same way. I guess to describe my overall feeling would be let-down. This should have been epic. This should have been the culmination of a three year journey. I should have rejoiced in two of my favorite character\u2019s HEA \u2013 yet, I felt all I found was new characters with the same name. A new emo boy with drama queen tendencies and a detached and rather non-existent werewolf girl. I am sad. This is me being sad. Recommended only for fans of the series and it should be read in order. ...more Why hold on tight when you know you have to say goodbye? Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s Forever is a goodbye to the world of Mercy Falls. I am not good at goodbyes. Well\u2026screaming-slam-the-door-in-your-face type goodbyes\u2026those I can do. :) Saying goodbye to people I love is another story. I loved Forever, but it did not have the same power as Linger or Shiver had over me. But perhaps I did not let it get too close. I knew I had to let go. That said\u2026let\u2019s get to the love! All four points of view captured my Why hold on tight when you know you have to say goodbye? Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s Forever is a goodbye to the world of Mercy Falls. I am not good at goodbyes. Well\u2026screaming-slam-the-door-in-your-face type goodbyes\u2026those I can do. :) Saying goodbye to people I love is another story. I loved Forever, but it did not have the same power as Linger or Shiver had over me. But perhaps I did not let it get too close. I knew I had to let go. That said\u2026let\u2019s get to the love! All four points of view captured my attention and heart in this series. Sam and Grace balanced Cole and Isabel and vice versa. I liked that two completely different kinds of love were living and breathing in these pages. The way each couple expressed themselves, from Sam and Grace\u2019s silent argument with their eyes to Cole and Isabel\u2019s dancing, left me breathless at times. I truly enjoyed the journey with both couples from beginning to end. Love should not be the same for everyone\u2014it can\u2019t be. Truth be told though, my favorite parts of this book were actually with Sam and Cole. To watch a friendship slowly and awkwardly grow between these two forces of energy warmed my heart. At one point, they wanted two completely opposite goals. One risked everything to keep his humanity, while the other fought to lose his. They were adorable and hilarious at times. They talked in tandem, used each other\u2019s words, learned to live together, and eventually respect each other. Friendship is just as hard to find and sustain as romantic love in this world. It was a joy to feel that with Sam and Cole. I do have some personal disappointments with Forever, but maybe everyone does in a goodbye. All the characters will have a place in my heart forever, but it has always been about Sam Roth for me. His struggle with holding on to who he is in the world hit my heart hard. The Boy knew what he wanted\u2014what form he wanted to be, what he wanted to do, and who he wanted to love and he fought for it all. To see and feel Sam continue to struggle inspires me to keep fighting in this world. I guess I feel like I lost my battle a long time ago, so Sam\u2019s determination gives me hope to keep looking and holding on to what makes me human and happy. That is why Forever gets 5 stars from me. Ringo knows the beat of my heart and always will. Read Forever when you are ready. We all have to learn to say goodbye. ...more This was a DNF for me, thus no rating. I got to page 68 before deciding not to continue. The story was going nowhere for me; nothing was happening. Very slow beginning. I still needed closure so I hit up a friend and she told me what happens. Let me just say, that if I were to have actually read the entire book myself, I would have thrown the book at the wall. (view spoiler) [There is no clear-cut ending. It's left completely open. I don't get invested and read a trilogy for a non-conclusive endin This was a DNF for me, thus no rating. I got to page 68 before deciding not to continue. The story was going nowhere for me; nothing was happening. Very slow beginning. I still needed closure so I hit up a friend and she told me what happens. Let me just say, that if I were to have actually read the entire book myself, I would have thrown the book at the wall. (view spoiler) [There is no clear-cut ending. It's left completely open. I don't get invested and read a trilogy for a non-conclusive ending. I need absolute closure! (hide spoiler) ] ...more Finally getting to this one after snagging an ARC at BookExpo. Is it just me or is it hard to read the red print? An interesting book. Again the story pace (like the first two) is so deceptive - it seems as if nothing is going on...but when I actually think about the story more is happening than I thought. I was glad there was Cole and Isobel to spice things up - otherwise the scenes with Sam moping over Grace and his life would have made me stop reading. Yes, I realize he had a difficult time wi Finally getting to this one after snagging an ARC at BookExpo. Is it just me or is it hard to read the red print? An interesting book. Again the story pace (like the first two) is so deceptive - it seems as if nothing is going on...but when I actually think about the story more is happening than I thought. I was glad there was Cole and Isobel to spice things up - otherwise the scenes with Sam moping over Grace and his life would have made me stop reading. Yes, I realize he had a difficult time with his parents and Beck, but I wanted to slap him more than a few times and tell him to get over it already and figure out a way to solve their problems (this could have been the author's intention - Sam is a creative soul - it's just my own preference is for main protags to be more...decisive :) While Sam's character arc dragged, Cole's and Isobel's went too fast and I suspect some shortcuts were used by the author so she could finish the story in this book. Also (view spoiler) [the cop's perfect solution (his pennisula and lodge) for the wolves was a cheat - the main protagonists need to figure out how to solve their problems - not have some side character suddenly come up with the perfect solution. IMO (hide spoiler) ] Endings are hard to write and last books in series are harder. However I enjoyed the story and characters and would recommend them. Just make sure you're tucked under a blanket with something hot to drink next to you ;> ...more Maggie Stiefvater has this ability to render life after her books meaningless. It truly seems, to me, that her words cast a spell, throw out their tentacles, and wrap around you, holding you down, close, forever, to her world. Stiefvater has mentioned, many times, that she hopes her books are the kind that never truly leave her readers\u2019 minds, and on that front, she has succeeded completely. Whether it be The Scorpio Races or The Raven Boys or even just Shiver, it\u2019s so difficult to fully leave t Maggie Stiefvater has this ability to render life after her books meaningless. It truly seems, to me, that her words cast a spell, throw out their tentacles, and wrap around you, holding you down, close, forever, to her world. Stiefvater has mentioned, many times, that she hopes her books are the kind that never truly leave her readers\u2019 minds, and on that front, she has succeeded completely. Whether it be The Scorpio Races or The Raven Boys or even just Shiver, it\u2019s so difficult to fully leave these characters and settings behind and go forward in life. After all, what is grocery shopping in the face of true love? Stiefvater\u2019s Forever is, in my eyes, the best this trilogy has to offer. Although my fingers and toes were crossed tight while reading this \u2013 I would have hated to be another disappointed reviewer adding to the throng of mixed emotions \u2013 I needn\u2019t have worried. Forever is the perfect ending to this trilogy. Each installment truly built upon the previous story in a remarkable manner and the way everything comes together in this in such a bittersweet and realistic way is heart-stopping. What stands out to me about Forever is its maturity. Whether it be the nature of Grace and Sam\u2019s relationship \u2013 all the more intense, romantic, and yet slow \u2013 or the developing friendships between Sam and Cole \u2013 tentative, understanding, and loyal \u2013 these characters have truly grown up. In my eyes, Linger marked a true journey of growth for Cole, but Forever sees him continue to battle his inner demons, especially alongside Isabel. I find that their relationship, though seemingly typical of most, is truthfully very different as Stiefvater never rushes anything between them. Both Cole and Isabel are tortured and broken people; humans who cannot heal merely because of love and affection, but rather with time. And, perfectly, Stiefvater gives them that time and, moreover, she gives us that hope. Additionally, Isabel truly came alive for me in this installment. In Linger, her emotions were raw and edged with a brutality, but in Shiver they are whirling uncontrollably. I was finally able to see the extent of her pain, but also the extent of her strength. Isabel also acts as the voice of reason, which I love. Despite her grief \u2013 or perhaps, because of it \u2013 she never hesitates to stand up to Cole, Sam, or Grace and put them in their place. As the only human among werewolf friends, her contributions are valuable. Moreover, Isabel, Grace, and Rachel grow to find a steady footing in their friendship. We come to see just how important both these girls are to Grace and, by virtue of their common friend, Isabel and Rachel manage to form a bond, pushing their differences aside. Friendship hasn\u2019t necessarily been a raging theme throughout this series, but with this installment, I truly found that it shone. Cole and Sam, especially, have an intriguing bromance that brews in this novel. With Grace a wolf and Isabel a human, Sam and Cole are stuck together in Beck\u2019s home with nothing but their own company and their swirling thoughts. Thus, the steady trust that develops between them was one of my favorite relationships to watch unfold. Moreover, Cole and Grace share an easy friendship. It is remarkable to see these characters from each others eyes, particularly from those of Cole. Cole sees Grace as a remarkably different person that maybe even we see her and I love those additional insights into her character and particularly into her relationship with Sam. Linger gave us an insight into each character and into their role in the tumultuous plot, and while Forever continues to employ that method, it also manages to build a rhythm of greater balance, throwing in these lenses with which to view the other characters differently as well. It is this, I find, that is the strength of novels with multiple perspectives and Stiefvater truly hones on this. Nevertheless, Forever is Sam\u2019s story. (Admittedly, everything is Sam\u2019s story because, let\u2019s be honest, no one wants to read anything without Sam Roth in it, but this book is more his than the previous ones.) Sam\u2019s growth throughout this novel is remarkable. Not only is he forced to quickly assume responsibilities, being the leader and in charge of ensuring the pack\u2019s safety, but he is also driven to embrace his past fears. Whether it be the bathtub or losing his humanity or even finally facing the truth of his relationship with Beck, Sam bravely faces it all in a heart-wrenching fashion. With Sam, there is always so much emotion involved and my heart tore for him on more than one occasion. I love how Stiefvater has molded his character from Shiver to Forever and looking back on that journey is ultimately both insightful and rewarding. Also, the last page of this book? I was praying it was the last. It was beautiful. I'm a huge fan of ambiguous endings and that one was just...lovely. I'd have hated a more conclusive ending (but I've been told I'm strange since most readers seem to like very wrapped-up endings...*shrug*). Needless to say, I'll be walking around in a haze, now, unable to leave Mercy Falls in spirit. And that is why this trilogy is so remarkable. It takes hold of your heart and doesn\u2019t let it go. It leaves you with hope, but also bittersweet longing. It leaves you shivering, but not forever. It makes you look out upon the world and upon every person you meet in a new and different light. And I love that; those are the books I live for. ...more 3.5 stars: Some parts shine, some disappoint in bittersweet ending to trilogy In Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s Forever , the final book in the Wolves of Mercy Falls trilogy, Sam is waiting for Grace to become human again as winter melts into spring. Cole is taking huge risks to try and find a cure, and Isabel continues to struggle with her brother\u2019s death. The stakes are raised when a hunt to kill the wolves is approved, and Sam, Cole, and Isabel must race against time to save Grace and the pack. With no ea 3.5 stars: Some parts shine, some disappoint in bittersweet ending to trilogy In Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s Forever , the final book in the Wolves of Mercy Falls trilogy, Sam is waiting for Grace to become human again as winter melts into spring. Cole is taking huge risks to try and find a cure, and Isabel continues to struggle with her brother\u2019s death. The stakes are raised when a hunt to kill the wolves is approved, and Sam, Cole, and Isabel must race against time to save Grace and the pack. With no easy solutions in sight, nothing is certain regarding who will live and love into another season. Like always, Stiefvater\u2019s lyrical prose impressed me with its ability to create distinct imagery and to evoke emotion. Isabel and Cole shined as characters that grow, both by themselves and together, and I found their shared moments to be the most touching. All of the characters, even those whom we\u2019re supposed to love, are shown to have significant flaws, and the story deals openly with the issue of what is forgivable and what is not. Strong themes about selfish versus selfless behavior, self-destruction and suicide, the value and worth of love, and the importance of consent and choice also ran throughout. I appreciated seeing these themes woven into the story, and I appreciated even more seeing Stiefvater note some of them in the dedication, author's note, and acknowledgments. The novel also finished with a somewhat open ending that allows readers to imagine an uncertain but hopeful future for the characters, which I found more believable than a pat ending. Even with all of these strong points, FOREVER didn\u2019t provide the satisfying conclusion for which I had hoped. Like in Linger , the voices of the different narrators were often not distinct, and I sometimes found myself checking the chapter headings to identify the speaker. The prose in this installment also felt too intentional: I often felt like passages were written for the mere beauty of the words, not because they represented a character\u2019s voice well. While I loved Isabel and Cole, they outshined Sam and Grace in this book, much to the detriment of the two main characters. Despite the hardships their relationship undergoes, the cautious nature in which Sam and Grace treated each other felt artificially strained. Because of this, I never reconnected to their love story. Some parts of the resolution also felt too convenient, and the werewolf pathology remained unclear. Finally, while I did appreciate aspects of the open ending, some things felt just as unresolved as they were at the end of the two previous books. After falling in love with the author\u2019s writing in her faerie novels ( Lament: The Faerie Queen's Deception , Ballad: A Gathering of Faerie ), the Shiver books unfortunately never grabbed me in the same way. Despite this lack of connection with the series, I continue to be very impressed with Stiefvater\u2019s writing and her ability to connect readers to the emotions of her characters. I\u2019m looking forward eagerly to her upcoming stand-alone novel, The Scorpio Races , to see if I can find that connection to her writing again. ...more Initial thoughts: 1. Grace as a wolf was quite interesting to read about. 2. Sam's emotions were all over the place and it all felt so real. 3. Isabel and Cole are my OTP. I loved both characters so much! 4. I didn't expect the story to turn into the direction it did at the end. Nice surprise effect! 5. The writing was so beautiful, I loved it! Check out my full review on my blog!", "Title": "Forever"},
