{"Comments": "\"The best way out is always through.<---F>\" This book kept me thinking</---F>... How many times did you answer to the question \"how are you\" with just \"fine\", or \"I\u2019m ok\"? How many times did you feel like your heart was breaking but you couldn't make it right? How many of your dark, inside secrets have made your heart break a little bit more every day? How many times did you need help but you didn't know how to ask for it? How many people tried to be part of your life, but you kept them in dark? How many times whe \"The best way out is always through.\" This book kept me thinking... How many times did you answer to the question \"how are you\" with just \"fine\", or \"I\u2019m ok\"? How many times did you feel like your heart was breaking but you couldn't make it right? How many of your dark, inside secrets have made your heart break a little bit more every day? How many times did you need help but you didn't know how to ask for it? How many people tried to be part of your life, but you kept them in dark? How many times when someone got too close to you, did you push that person away? How many times did you have so much to tell, but didn\u2019t find the words? How many times silence got so loud that you couldn't bear to listen to it any longer? Someone said that the mp3 players were made for the people that can\u2019t handle their own thoughts\u2026 So tell me, how many times did you get yourself lost in music, not wanting to hear the rhythm of your own heartbeat? Too many times to count. There are secrets that we keep safe in our heart, there are things that could hurt the people we love if we let them out, there are friendships lost between the layers of time, and there are people that get to know us better than anyone because they know how to look into our heart.. For all these, there is this book \u2013 about broken hearts,<---M> and lost dreams</---M>, about loneliness, and silent cries, about being too late and second chances, about love in every form we can find it. And for all those people we need to do one thing: just listen. In this story we meet Annabel - a girl that has lost her old friends, her old life and eventually, herself. She doesn\u2019t know what to do with her life, she doesn\u2019t know how to be part of her family that seems to be falling apart, she doesn\u2019t know how to say \u201cI\u2019m sorry\u201d, she doesn\u2019t know how to say what\u2019s wrong with her, and she doesn\u2019t know what to do with all the bad things that happened to her and she didn\u2019t say a word to no one about. When one boy from school, Owen, starts hanging with her and challenging her to put into words her real feelings as they are, the chaos that her life has become seems to get bigger, and the only way for her to make things right is to start being honest with the people around her (<---B>her mother, her friends, even Owen</---B>), and more than that, to be honest with herself. \"Plus there's the fact that music is a total constant. That's why we have such a strong visceral connection to it, you know? Because a song can take you back instantly to a moment, or a place, or even a person. No matter what else has changed in you or the world, that one song stays the same, just like that moment.\" You would think that telling the truth is as easy as breathing, but is it? Who decides if a lie is big or small; if a lie can make us happy or sad? And if we say the truth, will it make a difference? And how do you know, whom you can trust with your secrets? And how do you know if they will believe the truth or they will think that it\u2019s another lie? How do you say what you want, when you don\u2019t even know it, and how will you face the truth when you\u2019re trying to run away from it? Yes, we live in a world full of lies \u2013 some of them are meant to make us feel better, some are meant to make us cry; some of us can make the difference between a dark secret and a light lie, but most of us are starting to forget what being honest really is: not to say all that you think, but to think all that you say! So, the next time your heart is telling you its truth.. just listen! Yeah. Don't think, or judge. <+++>Just Listen</+++>. This review can also be found at ReadingAfterMidnight.com ____________________________________________ Blog (EN) | Facebook | Twitter | Tumblr | Bloglovin' | Blog (RO) ____________________________________________ ...more Am I the only person who is tired of <---A>Sarah Dessen</---A>? I loved the first book of hers I read, Someone Like You, but unfortunately it seems like the more books of hers I read, the more formulaic her writing becomes. It seems like every novel she writes follows this structure: 1) Girl (with very uncommon name) is unhappy about something in her life 2) Girl with very uncommon name meets Boy with very uncommon name 3) Girl and Boy decide to date 4) Big major conflict in story happens that causes girl and boy Am I the only person who is tired of Sarah Dessen? I loved the first book of hers I read, Someone Like You, but unfortunately it seems like the more books of hers I read, the more formulaic her writing becomes. It seems like every novel she writes follows this structure: 1) Girl (with very uncommon name) is unhappy about something in her life 2) Girl with very uncommon name meets Boy with very uncommon name 3) Girl and Boy decide to date 4) Big major conflict in story happens that causes girl and boy to doubt each other, and they have a huge fight and then breakup 5) In some versions of the story, the boy and the girl get back together, but in some they don't. Either way, the relationship that occurred causes the girl to realize something really profound about herself, or her life, or blah blah blah. Gag! Why is this author suggesting to our teenagers that they can't overcome the obstacles in life without a boy to help them through it? And she's even a teacher in creative writing! - She's got to realize that by this point everything she writes is starting to sound the same! I might be the only person who's not looking forward to her new book. UPDATE May 2015: I thought it was especially interesting, seeing as I had previously written this review, that I recently received what was purported to be a \"personal letter\" from Sarah Dessen. Imagine my initial confusion (Did she read my review and wants to reprimand me? Is she distraught over its content? Does she want to discuss how I arrived at my conclusions?), which later turned to laughter as I realized that it was really an advertisement for her new book, Saint Anything . She claims that the story means a lot to her, and that she hopes it will mean a lot to me too. In this case, however, me simply refers to everyone this blanket book suggestion was sent to. Such disappointment I have with today's marketing generalizations... ...more This is going to sound stupid but I'm hyperventilating writing this review. I hardly ever buy books but I bought this one as a present for my sister (she introduced me to Dessen) and of course I just happened to read it too. I've read this book four times (the most I've re-read any book) and I know it inside and out, but I don't think know I won't be able to do it justice. Here goes nothing... First of all I could probably write a whole dissertation on Owen. He's is just so... AWESOME really This is going to sound stupid but I'm hyperventilating writing this review. I hardly ever buy books but I bought this one as a present for my sister (she introduced me to Dessen) and of course I just happened to read it too. I've read this book four times (the most I've re-read any book) and I know it inside and out, but I don't think know I won't be able to do it justice. Here goes nothing... First of all I could probably write a whole dissertation on Owen. He's is just so... AWESOME really that word doesn't even cover it, but I will refrain about talking about him too much (keyword try). <---C>Annabel Greene</---C> is your typical beautiful middle class girl but we all know that the surface isn't always what it seems. She is hiding a terrible secret that she won't even admit to even herself. It only takes one night to change everything. Everything from Annabel's relationships to the description of the glass house is pitch perfect. The storyline hits so many things. Eating disorders, modeling, music (huge in this story), anger, high school dynamics, family relationships, and so many other relevant topics but it never feels like it's being stuffed. It's told with the right amount of realism and the pacing is right on. The one thing (among many others) that struck me the most was Owen's policy of always saying the truth. After reading this I always feel a little more conscious of what exactly I'm saying. Everytime I read this book I still laugh at the same parts, still anticipate certain scenes, and still cringe at the heavy moments. Annabel comes to know that she really was never alone as she felt because in reality she was always only a hand reach away from people that are willing to just listen. When this song plays I always remember this book. ...more 4.5 stars I really, really liked this book. I definitely feel for Annabel and her family... I loved how big a part music had in this story as well as friendship. This book shows the importance of family and friends, speaking up for yourself, and of course listening to those around you. This was my first Sarah Dessen book and I'd definitely love to read another! Annabel Green lives in a glass house - literally. But even inside of the glass house that her father built, she realizes that it is easy to hide secrets. It is easy to hide the fact that her mother has become a different person since her grandmother\u2019s death. That her oldest sister has moved away, leaving a gaping hole in the family. It is easy to hide the fact that her other sister is suffering from an eating disorder that her parents choose to dismiss until it\u2019s almost too late. Like her family, Annabel Green lives in a glass house - literally. But even inside of the glass house that her father built, she realizes that it is easy to hide secrets. It is easy to hide the fact that her mother has become a different person since her grandmother\u2019s death. That her oldest sister has moved away, leaving a gaping hole in the family. It is easy to hide the fact that her other sister is suffering from an eating disorder that her parents choose to dismiss until it\u2019s almost too late. Like her family, Annabel also has secrets to hide. It is easy to cover up the reasons why her friends no longer talk to her. But why is Annabel Green so keen on hiding from her friends and family? She seems to have the perfect life \u2013 great friends, a nice family, and a promising career as a model. At least, she did until that night last summer\u2026 The only person she seems to connect with anymore is another high school student who is a loner by choice. Owen teaches Annabel that she needs to be honest with everyone \u2013 including herself. She has been ignoring the one voice she should have been listening to all along \u2013 her own. When it comes to music, other people\u2019s opinions, or Annabel\u2019s inner monologue, Owen\u2019s advice remains the same: don\u2019t judge...just listen. ...more Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com Up until now, THE TRUTH ABOUT FOREVER has always been my favorite Sarah Dessen book. Now that I've read JUST LISTEN, however, I think there's a tie! The characters of this latest release are so honestly real, their dialogue perfectly placed, that you can't help but be pulled into the life and times of Annabel Greene. Of course everyone thinks that Annabel has the perfect life. She's a model who has been in television commercials, in print ads, and in fashion sh Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com Up until now, THE TRUTH ABOUT FOREVER has always been my favorite Sarah Dessen book. Now that I've read JUST LISTEN, however, I think there's a tie! The characters of this latest release are so honestly real, their dialogue perfectly placed, that you can't help but be pulled into the life and times of Annabel Greene. Of course everyone thinks that Annabel has the perfect life. She's a model who has been in television commercials, in print ads, and in fashion shows at the local mall. She's popular at school, even if it is mostly because she's best friends with Sophie, the high school girl who demands attention. Her father is an architect who designed their house of glass; her mother lives for Annabel's modeling; she has two older sisters, Kirsten and Whitney, who are both former models themselves. Under all of that perfection, of course, lies the real Annabel. The one who suffered from something so horrible at the end of the last school year that she's lost not only her best friend, but her self-respect. Her family is so consumed with Whitney's eating disorder, with Kirsten's college life far away in New York, with keeping everything under control that Annabel doesn't tell them what's happened--the things that are still happening every day she goes to school just dreading the day. She doesn't want to add more problems to the mix; in fact, she lies by omission, simply avoiding the truth rather than shattering her family's illusions. But then Annabel meets Owen Armstrong, a boy she once watched punch out another student, then calmly walk away. Owen keeps to himself, never seems to be without his iPod, and doesn't appear to need any friends. But after he reaches out a hand to her, literally, after she's sick outside of school one day, a budding relationship of friendship begins to build between the guy who never lies, no matter what--and the girl who lies to protect other's feelings, namely her own. I loved JUST LISTEN. Owen is a character that will immediately grab your interest, especially with lines like \"...for me, not saying how I feel when I feel it is a bad move. So I don't do it. Look at it this way: I might be saying you're fat, but at least I'm not punching you in the face.\" As for Annabel, the things she's holding inside are tearing her apart, and, in the end, it's the strength of her sisters that gets her to ask for help. The characters of Kirsten and Whitney are complicated and complex, and I have to admit that there's a part near the end of the book in which the sisters come together that had me crying like a baby. As for Annabel, it's not all about telling the truth, but about listening, not just to others, but mostly to that voice inside of her: \"...this is what happens when you try to run from the past. It doesn't just catch up: it overtakes, blotting out the future, the landscape, the very sky, until there is no path left except that which leads through it, the only one that can ever get you home.\" ...more Half way trough this book, I realized that I was scared. Scared because it took me back to the place in my mind which I don't have any dessire to go back - ever again! I used to have a \"friend\" like Sophie, I had a eating disorder when I was senior, there was \"owen\" who helped me to wake up (but, he was just a friend). It took me two years to recover completely and it was awful. I used to stop eating when things in my life were out of my control and it gave me false sense of some kind od meaning Half way trough this book, I realized that I was scared. Scared because it took me back to the place in my mind which I don't have any dessire to go back - ever again! I used to have a \"friend\" like Sophie, I had a eating disorder when I was senior, there was \"owen\" who helped me to wake up (but, he was just a friend). It took me two years to recover completely and it was awful. I used to stop eating when things in my life were out of my control and it gave me false sense of some kind od meaning, stability. When everything else was out of my reach, my body was one thing I controled. And don't for one second think that now I don't have moments when I feel tempted to slip back. It follows you, always, and you have to fight with yourself all the time. So, girls, read this book! And don't be afraid to look for a help! ...more I'd seen so much about Sarah Dessen and her books but I never got around to reading one of her books until a friend gave me <+++>Just Listen</+++>. I started it right away and finished it within a couple days. It's save to say I'll be read another Sarah Dessen book soon. This book is so well written and emotional. I quickly became invested in not just Annabel but her whole family has well. Just Listen deals with many difficult issues and I felt like everything was handled in a very powerful way. I love how I'd seen so much about Sarah Dessen and her books but I never got around to reading one of her books until a friend gave me Just Listen. I started it right away and finished it within a couple days. It's save to say I'll be read another Sarah Dessen book soon. This book is so well written and emotional. I quickly became invested in not just Annabel but her whole family has well. Just Listen deals with many difficult issues and I felt like everything was handled in a very powerful way. I love how Just Listen focused a lot on family. Not a lot of YA books include family has a main theme but Just Listen did. And it was consistently a main focus though out the whole book. There was so much character development in this book! I love development in teenage characters and Sarah Dessen is amazing at it with this book. Owen was such an amazingly well written character. He's so honest and I loved how he was able to teach his honesty to Annabel. I wish more male characters were like Owen. Overall, I loved this book so much. It was so heartfelt and powerful. I'm basically at a loss for words because my love for this book cannot be expressed with words. I highly recommend picking this book up. ...more Don't think or judge, just listen . These words are screaming in my head right now and lord, are they inspiring. Annabel, just your average girl used to be popular, had one really popular friend and had everything right. She keeps to herself about what happened during summer, where everything turned upside down. The story starts off with her and gets even better once she meets Owen. He is most definitely music obsessed, always telling the truth and has anger management issues. I loved Owen! He takes Don't think or judge, just listen . These words are screaming in my head right now and lord, are they inspiring. Annabel, just your average girl used to be popular, had one really popular friend and had everything right. She keeps to herself about what happened during summer, where everything turned upside down. The story starts off with her and gets even better once she meets Owen. He is most definitely music obsessed, always telling the truth and has anger management issues. I loved Owen! He takes his music so seriously, it's laughable! If he was real and saw that comment, he'd kill me. No joke. But that's what I love about him as do others in this book. He's completely honest and won't think twice about lying to others. Annabel, however, refuses to tell the truth of what caused her life to come to this. Oh, I could dedicate this whole review just to Owen, but I won't. I promise! They way Annabel and Owen developed was really interesting, it wasn't insta-love and it wasn't like they were destined to be with each other. But how these two were like forced together, two loners at high school, was so intense to read. It is talent when you make the reader (someone like me), love your characters with all my heart and the romance, ohhhhh~~~ the romance *swoons* I think I died reading it. I must say there was a lot of reflecting back to the past in this book, but I think Sarah Dessen did a awesome job at it. It's not like info dumping, where it just gets ridiculous and boring. All of it was necessary and showed so much depth. I really think Just Listen puts your mind into perspective of Annabel's life, there's drama of all sorts; eating problems, romance, friendship, family, modelling. This contemporary novel is one of a kind. Her story is so remarkable; you want to read all the secrets yourself. No review can some up the words for this genuine novel. All the unscrambled situations will work itself out in the end. Sarah Dessen will not disappoint the young teen readers. Once you start you won\u2019t be able to stop. That\u2019s a promise. Simply adored the book for the way the story is told. Loved the R and R's, the two rings that Owen wears and the World of Waffles! PS : If you're not too convinced with this review, let it go to hell and read the book anyway, cause it's worth it! ...more Review posted on Fafa's Book Corner ! Beware spoilers ahead! Last year I read my very first Sarah Dessen book Saint Anything. I loved it and continued to look for more book by Sarah Dessen! Out of all her books the synopsis of Just Listen appealed to me the most. Which is why I decided to read this before the rest of my Sarah Dessen books. I am happy to say that I enjoyed it! The book begins with Annabel watching a commercial she was in. She turns off the tv and mentally prepares herself for schoo Review posted on Fafa's Book Corner ! Beware spoilers ahead! Last year I read my very first Sarah Dessen book Saint Anything. I loved it and continued to look for more book by Sarah Dessen! Out of all her books the synopsis of Just Listen appealed to me the most. Which is why I decided to read this before the rest of my Sarah Dessen books. I am happy to say that I enjoyed it! The book begins with Annabel watching a commercial she was in. She turns off the tv and mentally prepares herself for school. Annabel has been dreading going to school for months now. After the argument with Sophie and avoiding everyone in school she's not sure what she'll find when she reaches school. When Annabel reaches school she sits in her car for a few minutes just to think everything through. As she gets out of her car she and Sophie came face-to-face. Sophie swears at her and leaves. It becomes evident that there is no way to salvage their friendship and for the rest of the year Sophie will consistently pick on her. The first day goes by in a blur. As Annabel tries to make conversation with other people they don't talk to her. Last May she wanted nothing to do with other people now she's getting just what she wanted. During lunch she sits alone. Apparently Emily is choosing to sit with Sophie even though Annabel was friends with her first. Annabel's former best friend Clarke clearly wants nothing to do with her. And then there's Owen. Who seems intimidating and closed off. While she's eating lunch she sees Will Cash pass by. She freezes up and once he leaves she vomits in the bush. The next weeks continue normally. Sophie will call Annabel names when she least's expects it. Annabel eats lunch alone and keeps to herself. While Annabel is leaving school Will Cash catches her eye and talks to her. Annabel manages to get away quickly. Sophie confronts Annabel and threaten's her for talking to Will who is apparently Sophie's boyfriend. Annabel snaps and pushes Sophie. Annabel runs away and vomits in the bush again. Owen is yet again there to witness and helps Annabel. After that day the two of them become friends. Wow this was such a good book! In the beginning I thought that it would be a 3 star but as I read on I found myself really enjoying it! This book is written in first person in Annabel's point of view. There are quite a few flashbacks but it ever became overwhelming. I loved the family aspect in this book! Annabel's older sister Whitney was diagnosed with Anorexia. For the past few months it's been difficult for Whitney and her family. In the beginning Whitney didn't acknowledge that there was something wrong. That what she was doing wasn't healthy. She didn't see it that way. Their oldest sister Kiersten noticed (they lived together) but Whitney claimed that Kiersten must have been jealous of her as Whitney got more modeling opportunities than Kiersten. Once the family caught on they continued to support and be there for Whitney. The eating disorder was very well done! Whitney didn't get better in one day she took time but she got there. I liked the entire family in general. My favourite was definitely Kiersten. Annabel and Sophie's relationship was complicated. In a sense it was an abusive relationship. Unhealthy. Sophie spent most of her time bullying Annabel into what she wanted. Annabel gave in because she was scared off crossing her. Plus Sophie was the reason she was popular and gained most of her experiences from. Once they stop being friends Annabel realizes that she shouldn't have stuck around Sophie. She already lost Clarke and now she wants to make it up by being friends with Owen. While I haven't been in the same situation as Annabel I could relate and empathize with her. I understood why she was scared of Sophie and why she kept that night a secret. It didn't bother me at all. It made perfect sense and was handled well. Annabel lies quite a bit. Not because she enjoys lying but because she's afraid that if she tells the truth she'll hurt the people she cares about. It's her way of maintaining peace in her life. This all changes when Annabel meets Owen. Owen went to juvie for getting in a fight with a guy in the parking lot. Since then he has had to take Anger Management and vows to be honest in every aspect. Owen is extremely passionate about music and tries to educate Annabel in it. Owen also gets Annabel to be honest with everything she has to say. Surprisingly Annabel does so because it's easy being honest with Owen. I found Owen to be a refreshing character! I really liked reading about him! The romance is slow burn and it was done well! It was nice reading about Annabel's character development! Being around Owen has made her more confident and honest. She's actually happy with her life when she wasn't earlier. Annabel also learns so much from Whitney and admire's her strength for overcoming everything. I didn't have any problems with Just Listen. I simply didn't love it hence the rating. Note there is abuse in this book. If you are a sensitive reader you might not enjoy this book. I would suggest reading another contemporary. Overall this was a really good book! I recommend it to fans of the author and contemporary fans. ...more Annabelle has spent her entire summer sequestered after an incident at a end-of-school party in which she was humiliated in front of all her friends. Her best friend is no longer speaking to her, and we find out in progressive flashblack clips what exactly happened. Before Annabelle can get too lonely, she meets fellow social outcast Owen who teaches her the virtues of honesty and gives her the confidence to come clean about her secrets. If this storyline sounds familiar, it's because \"Just List Annabelle has spent her entire summer sequestered after an incident at a end-of-school party in which she was humiliated in front of all her friends. Her best friend is no longer speaking to her, and we find out in progressive flashblack clips what exactly happened. Before Annabelle can get too lonely, she meets fellow social outcast Owen who teaches her the virtues of honesty and gives her the confidence to come clean about her secrets. If this storyline sounds familiar, it's because \"Just Listen\" is extraordinarily similar to Laurie Halse Anderson's \"Speak\", except that the characters in \"Just Listen\" are one-dimensional and cliche. Annabelle comes across as incredibly passive and weak. Still, it's passable chick lit for romance-minded teen readers. ...more Wow. It's so, so, so, so good. I loved this book. It's so hard to read about such a sad story though, it hurt me more than any book did in a while, if not ever. I was sobbing at some point and there were other times all of my body hurt, even though I couldn't cry. It's incredibly sad, but I'm glad it gets better. Having read two or three of Dessen's novels, I was expecting this one to be fluffy, with romance and one or two small issues. Well, let me tell you, the issue mentionned in this book is Wow. It's so, so, so, so good. I loved this book. It's so hard to read about such a sad story though, it hurt me more than any book did in a while, if not ever. I was sobbing at some point and there were other times all of my body hurt, even though I couldn't cry. It's incredibly sad, but I'm glad it gets better. Having read two or three of Dessen's novels, I was expecting this one to be fluffy, with romance and one or two small issues. Well, let me tell you, the issue mentionned in this book is probably the worst thing ever. I was absolutely not expecting something this traumatic or sad, so it completely destroyed me. I loved this book's characters and how the good ones reacted to Annabel's story. Owen was my favorite, expecially since his care for Annabel kept melting my heart, compensating for the sadness I was reading about. He made me smile, with his adorable sister and his love for music, and I loved his honesty. Once again, Dessen created a character I could totally relate to. While I haven't experienced anything like Annabel, we share many personality traits, which is why it hit me when Owen told her he absolutely never lies. Like Annabel, I'm always a bit too nice and I hate saying hurtful things, so little white lies are part of my life. I don't hate confrontation as much as she does (I kind of like it, once in a while), Owen's words still made me think a lot about my entire life and every single lie or omission I can say without thinking about it. I now realize there's no way to always be nice, so I'm trying to get better, just like Annabel. All of Dessen's books have one similarity, it's that they all have great families. Maybe not in the fact that they're perfect, but more in the sense that they're realistic and loving. This book isn't just about a love story, or about a traumatic experience, it's about every single part of Annabel's life, including her family. I love it when authors include family members a lot in their story, because family is important. Her sister's issues are ones that I had to deal with in my family, so I can completely understand how Annabel feels. I loved seeing how she Evolved and it gave me hope for the future. Overall, this book is awesome. It has everything you could ask for: romance, some more serious stuff, family, love, music, everything. I highly recommend it. It's definitely my favorite book from Sarah Dessen so far. ...more Just Listen is a beautiful coming of age story. It follows Annabel Green, a girl who, at first glance, appears to have everything: looks, popularity, friends. All that changes during the summer before junior year. Something happened at the beginning of that summer, that left Annabel lonely, friendless and despised by her former best friend. Contrary to what you might think at first glance, this is not a love story. At least, the love story is not the central part of the plot. This is a story abo Just Listen is a beautiful coming of age story. It follows Annabel Green, a girl who, at first glance, appears to have everything: looks, popularity, friends. All that changes during the summer before junior year. Something happened at the beginning of that summer, that left Annabel lonely, friendless and despised by her former best friend. Contrary to what you might think at first glance, this is not a love story. At least, the love story is not the central part of the plot. This is a story about family, about how important it is to speak up and at the same time, to listen to others. It's about how we hide the truth a lot of time, for different reasons, either to protect others, or because we consider our problems to not be as important as everyone else's. We keep people in the dark, we push them away because we don't know how to ask for help. We'd rather say were \"fine\" instead of saying \"I'm not as okay as I seem\". We hide things out of shame, or because we believe others might not pay any attention to us if we asked them to. We don't realize that most of the times, our silence speaks louder than words, it may even become deafening. It's a story about loneliness, appearances and how deceiving they may be. About bullying and friendship - how easily it can break and how difficult it is to put back together. About music. About sisterhood and personal growth. About how we shouldn't think or judge sometimes, we should just listen. I saw a lot of myself in Annabel. Her silence, her white lies - it's something I do as well, a lot of the times. Because I never see myself as important or because I don't want to burden the ones around me. She's a compelling character and I loved the dynamic of her family. I loved that this was a story about how family can help, how family can heal and support its members. How, although you may go through tough times, they're always there to help you through thick and thin. Even if sometimes it may seem it's too late. I should mention trigger warnings for eating disorder and abuse. Keep that in mind. Favourite quotes: \u201cDon't think or judge, just listen.\u201d \u201cBecause this is what happens when you try to run from the past. It just doesn\u2019t catch up, it overtakes \u2026 blotting out the future.\u201d \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 To everyone who got this far, thank you for reading and have a wonderful day! Also, feel free to share your thoughts, comment or tell me anything :) ...more 4.5 stars~ This book was SO GOOD. I have to say guys, I'm falling in love with Sarah Dessen. I'm probably going to read every book I find written by her. I think the characters were realistic and I absolutely love the way delicate issues were managed. I also thoroughly enjoy the romance, I was falling in love at the same time Annabel did \u2665 The secondary characters were really good, too! I particularly enjoy Owen's little sister :) I have to say, I was really frustrated with Annabel's mom, but that 4.5 stars~ This book was SO GOOD. I have to say guys, I'm falling in love with Sarah Dessen. I'm probably going to read every book I find written by her. I think the characters were realistic and I absolutely love the way delicate issues were managed. I also thoroughly enjoy the romance, I was falling in love at the same time Annabel did \u2665 The secondary characters were really good, too! I particularly enjoy Owen's little sister :) I have to say, I was really frustrated with Annabel's mom, but that's life, everybody have flaws -even moms. Overall, I really liked the progress of the family dynamics, especially with the sisters. I would recommend this to YA contemporary lovers :) ...more \u201cDon't think or judge, just listen.\u201d Another one of my favorites from Sarah Dessen, I love her books. My goal is to finish reading all her books and catch up on this train. I know I'm behind in Throne of Glass but I'll catch up ASAP! Anyway, I really enjoyed this book. The other book I read from Sarah Dessen is Saint Anything and I just loved that book so much. \u201cI mean, to me, freaking out is different. More of a running away, not telling anyone what's wrong, slowly simmering until you burst \u201cDon't think or judge, just listen.\u201d Another one of my favorites from Sarah Dessen, I love her books. My goal is to finish reading all her books and catch up on this train. I know I'm behind in Throne of Glass but I'll catch up ASAP! Anyway, I really enjoyed this book. The other book I read from Sarah Dessen is Saint Anything and I just loved that book so much. \u201cI mean, to me, freaking out is different. More of a running away, not telling anyone what's wrong, slowly simmering until you burst kind of thing.\u201d Annabel has a huge fallout with one of her friends after an incident that happened in the summer. After the school year started, Annabel was all alone, she had no one to talk to and all her friends seemed to hate her. Owen is music-obsessed and wouldn't cannot be seen without his headphones. He always bobs his head to the beat of the music and doesn't care about being alone. When these two begin to talk, the story begins and unravels from there. \u201cIf you don't pay attention to the past, you'll never understand the future.It's all linked together.\u201d One of the aspects I liked about this story was the comedy. It was so funny and I would be seen a class,yet again, laughing my head off. But then I get weird looks(as the usual) from my classmates, because it's a CRIME to laugh at something in a book... Okay, I'm getting off topic, anyway, I also loved the way both of these characters would argue about music. It was interesting to read and I loved the placeholders and stuff! UGH SO GOOD! .\u201cYou punched him by accident.\u201d , Another part that made this book so good was how realistic it was. Owen and Annabel weren't perfect, they both had their flaws, but they both seemed to work it out. Although Annabel was the main character, it wasn't only about her, there were so many side stories and in the end, they all linked together and I loved that. It made the story more realistic and the characters were also so realistic. Annabel was so easy to relate to and Owen was so funny and real. When the story feels right, I feel like I am right there, beside the characters. (If I were beside the characters and they saw me listening to their conversation, that would be awkward. The characters were amazing and I loved ever single one of them. Annabel, Owen, Rolly, Clarke, Kristen, Mallory, and Whitney. They all made me happy and sometimes, I would feel really upset of what happened to those characters. Sometimes, I want to go to a character and say \"I know how you feel,\" but that would be creepy. It was interesting to read about their bonds and relationships with each other. Although this book deals with serious topics, it was just so sweet. I highly recommend this book, if you read any Sarah Dessen book. Thank you to all my friends who recommended this book, you guys were right, this book was truly very beautiful. I can't wait to read more of Sarah Dessen! Anyone who is in the mood for a contemporary novel, I highly recommend this book! \u201cSilence is so freaking load\u201d ...more Sarah Dessen\u2019s Just Listen changed me. Now just to be clear--those words do not come easy for me. My head has been emerged in one literary world after another my whole life, but those words have only come out of my mouth a hand full of times about a novel. This story just wrapped itself around by head, heart, and everything I am and held on for dear life. Do you consider yourself an honest person? Do you always tell the truth about how you feel? For me, communication and the importance of honest Sarah Dessen\u2019s Just Listen changed me. Now just to be clear--those words do not come easy for me. My head has been emerged in one literary world after another my whole life, but those words have only come out of my mouth a hand full of times about a novel. This story just wrapped itself around by head, heart, and everything I am and held on for dear life. Do you consider yourself an honest person? Do you always tell the truth about how you feel? For me, communication and the importance of honesty with others and yourself jumped, popped, and pulsed through these pages. Those messages settled right in to my heart and pushed me to move, change, talk, and listen. Since letting Annabel and Owen into my world, I have noticed just how much I do hold back or how often I answer the question \u201cHow are you?\u201d with a quick \u201cfine\u201d or \u201cgood\u201d when my soul just wants to scream out so much more. Annabel and Owen are the heartbeat of this book. They truly are a remarkable pair to walk you through this story with patience, strength, warmth and a song or two playing in the background. Owen\u2019s theory of honesty captured my heart and mind and will stay with me as long as I live. Dessen created a very special voice with Owen. I wish everyone could find and hold on to an Owen in life! Being honest with yourself and others is just one part of communication though. You also must listen. If you are lucky enough to find a listener\u2014a true honest to God good listener\u2014hold on to him or her with all your might! They are so rare in this world. Sarah Dessen surprised me with a powerful tale that will urge you to open your heart, build up your music collection, and truly look at how you communicate in this world. \u201cDon\u2019t think or judge, just listen.\u201d ...more There\u2019s a conversation somewhere in the middle of the book that struck me, \"Interesting,\" he said, \"is not a word.\" \"Since when?\" \"It's a placeholder. Something you use when you don't want to say something else.\" He leaned a little closer to me. \"Look, if you're worried about my feelings, don't be. You can say whatever you want. I won't be offended.\" This snippet could very well describe what I was planning to say about JUST LISTEN. So, in lieu of 'interesting,' I will say that the first half just There\u2019s a conversation somewhere in the middle of the book that struck me, \"Interesting,\" he said, \"is not a word.\" \"Since when?\" \"It's a placeholder. Something you use when you don't want to say something else.\" He leaned a little closer to me. \"Look, if you're worried about my feelings, don't be. You can say whatever you want. I won't be offended.\" This snippet could very well describe what I was planning to say about JUST LISTEN. So, in lieu of 'interesting,' I will say that the first half just didn't work for me. Honestly, there wasn't anything wrong with it. The writing is so solid that I could practically picture Anabel, her sisters, her mom\u2026 and later Owen. Despite this, I was left hanging. This is not to say that I\u2019m totally insensitive as not to grasp why she felt the way she felt (because I could and did,) but something there (and I\u2019m still not sure what) kept holding me back. I plodded along though and was almost positive I would feel the same way for the whole book. Util Owen, that is. Everything out of his mouth resonated with me. I hate and love said fact. I hate it because why did eureka moments come at the heels of something he said? But I also loved that there were any eureka moments at all. I'm still giving her other books a shot. :) ...more Annabel avoids conflict. A difficult task when your mother suffers from depression and your sister is anorexic. And your best friend, your ex best friend, and everyone else in the school hates you. With the possible exception of Owen Armstrong\u2014who lives in his I-pod . . . and punches out classmates that annoy him. Life is safer if you don\u2019t talk. Don\u2019t have an opinion. But when Mom begs Annabel to hitch a ride home with a \u201cfriend,\u201d Owen is the closest person to a possibility. And it turns out he do Annabel avoids conflict. A difficult task when your mother suffers from depression and your sister is anorexic. And your best friend, your ex best friend, and everyone else in the school hates you. With the possible exception of Owen Armstrong\u2014who lives in his I-pod . . . and punches out classmates that annoy him. Life is safer if you don\u2019t talk. Don\u2019t have an opinion. But when Mom begs Annabel to hitch a ride home with a \u201cfriend,\u201d Owen is the closest person to a possibility. And it turns out he doesn\u2019t believe in lies. Or avoiding the truth. Or that Annabel is dishonest. He treats her like her opinion is worth something. And, ironically, when she is around him, she starts to believe that too. But what happens when Owen discovers all the things she has not said? Just Listen sneaks up on you. You meet Annabel and you assume you know her. And you aren\u2019t at all sure that you like her. But somewhere around page ninety, you absolutely must read on. Because you\u2019ve figured out that Annabel doesn\u2019t like that Annabel either. And the joy of Just Listen is figuring out who she really is. So that by the halfway point in the book, you have no choice but to finish the rest in one sitting. IMO. ...more This book. Seriously, I have some major lovin\u2019 for. This story is about Annabel \u2013 she has lost her old friends, her old life and especially, herself. Her whole world is falling apart. Because of one specific thing that happened she isn\u2019t able to function because she has kept quiet about it and it\u2019s tearing her and her life apart. She lies to herself and everyone around her in order to avoid the truth and not face it. And it\u2019s destroying her. Then we meet Owen, a boy she avoided or ignored before h This book. Seriously, I have some major lovin\u2019 for. This story is about Annabel \u2013 she has lost her old friends, her old life and especially, herself. Her whole world is falling apart. Because of one specific thing that happened she isn\u2019t able to function because she has kept quiet about it and it\u2019s tearing her and her life apart. She lies to herself and everyone around her in order to avoid the truth and not face it. And it\u2019s destroying her. Then we meet Owen, a boy she avoided or ignored before her life \u201cended.\u201d He challenges her in every aspect because he doesn\u2019t believe in lies or avoiding the truth and through his love of music that he is able to help Annabel is ways nobody else could reach her. I absolutely love him as a character. He treats her like she needed to be treated in order to wake her up and get her to face herself and be honest with people and herself. He shows her there is value in her opinion and it pushes her to think. I love the chemistry between Owen and Annabel. I couldn\u2019t put this book down! It totally gripped my attention. I love how all the characters progressed and we see changes happen. I loved the hard truth and life situations that were happening in this story. I felt Dessen was brilliant with it. Overall: A good honest book about real life situations. I think many girls will benefit from it and some will be able to relate which is sad. Romantic and good Sexual Content: moderate Language: moderate: Drugs/Alcohol: moderate Violence: moderate ...more Just Listen was the very poignant story of Annabel, whose life was significantly changed at the end of the previous school year when she and her best friend publicly parted ways. As the new school year starts, Annabel finds herself alone, sort of drifting through her life just doing what\u2019s expected of her. As I finished up this story, I couldn\u2019t help but think how important it was. There was so much about this book that just resonated with me. Parts of it flung me right back to my own high schoo Just Listen was the very poignant story of Annabel, whose life was significantly changed at the end of the previous school year when she and her best friend publicly parted ways. As the new school year starts, Annabel finds herself alone, sort of drifting through her life just doing what\u2019s expected of her. As I finished up this story, I couldn\u2019t help but think how important it was. There was so much about this book that just resonated with me. Parts of it flung me right back to my own high school days. What I loved first and foremost about this book was how it was clear was that so much had shaped Annabel into who she was, and that even when Owen entered the picture, her life revolved around much more than just him. Her sister\u2019s plights were taking their toll on her, her continued modeling was getting to her, and Sophie no longer speaking to her was devastating to her. Having said that, let\u2019s move on to Owen, because I did love his character. He and Annabel had very little in common, but with Annabel\u2019s open mind, she was able to learn a lot from Owen. I love how they embraced their differences instead of shying away from them. Owen\u2019s stint in anger management was something that he took seriously, and he used what he knew to try and help Annabel communicate better. As Annabel began to act differently, people responded to her differently, and not always in the way she expected. They continued to surprise her. Most of the book is building up to a reveal of what happened between Annabel and Sophie. I feel like this event was revealed at just the right time. I never felt like this book was keeping a secret from me, it was only waiting for the perfect moment to tell me. Subsequent events prove that while a traumatic even shapes you, the events directly following have just as much of an impact. Other things I really enjoyed: This book gave a realistic portrayal of a high school from the party where, with enough liquor, can bond with anyone to how fair-weathered friendships can be at that age. Owen and his sister, Mallory, were wonderful secondary characters who stole every scene they had together. Mallory was the typical annoying little sister, and she was my favorite character from the book. This book demonstrates how hard it can be to be honest, even with yourself. And while the journey is hard and not without it\u2019s bumps, it\u2019s worth it. The therapy lingo Owen used, and how everyone around him adopted it and was so hellbent on keeping him on the right track. ___ I listened to the audio of this book, and at first I thought it was slow (the narrator, not the story) but once I kicked it up to 1.5, my reading experience was much more enjoyable! I absolutely loved Just Listen, and I am so excited to dive into the rest of Sarah Dessen\u2019s books. This review was originally posted at Badass Book Reviews. ...more This is YA fiction, pretty enjoyable, though I'm not dashing off to finish it by any means. It's about a girl who is kind of caught up in how she wants to be seen-- a model, actually. Like, literally, that is her job. And she apparently made some pretty terrible decisions that cost her at least a couple of friendships and led her to the kind of ostracism you can face in junior high and high school. And then she befriends another \"outcast\" and begins her first real friendship (my assessment, not n This is YA fiction, pretty enjoyable, though I'm not dashing off to finish it by any means. It's about a girl who is kind of caught up in how she wants to be seen-- a model, actually. Like, literally, that is her job. And she apparently made some pretty terrible decisions that cost her at least a couple of friendships and led her to the kind of ostracism you can face in junior high and high school. And then she befriends another \"outcast\" and begins her first real friendship (my assessment, not necessarily hers or the authors.) There's kind of a lot in it. Mean girls. Eating disorders. Family secrets. Depression. And if I am reading the foreshadowing correctly, I think we've got a history of sexual abuse about to be disclosed. Pretty heavy stuff, but not all that heavy-handed. My one complaint here is that the main \"mean girl,\" Sophie, is not a character at all. Like, the author doesn't have an actual person in mind, only a conglomeration of character traits and tics. I don't actually believe in this girl, not because I haven't met girls who appeared to be like this girl, but more because I think those girls only appeared to be this way. I mean, from my vantage point at the time, the girl who \"dumped\" me in junior high was just mean and petty and a snob. But that girl had her own interior life, and I know now that a) she was a lot more complicated, b) she was doing what she had seen modeled for her, and c) she had no idea how to change our relationship and she didn't like it the way it was. The author seems to give a passing nod to \"she is more complicated\" with the main character acknowledging that Sophie's parents had a bad break-up and now Sophie and her mom are impoverished, but to me, it mostly reads like the author didn't bother creating an inner life for this antagonist. This is totally making me think about my own writing, which, A+ for that. I really want to allow my characters their own rich lives off-page, if that makes sense. I don't have to tell their stories, but I have to at least know that they have them, you know? eta: finished the book. The middle-to-end sort of dragged there; there was a totally perfect awesome moment for resolution that the protagonist didn't take, for weak reasons. It was, I think, the only moment of the plot that felt like a false note to me. Slightly disappointing. This was more than made up for by the actual resolution of the storylines. I really liked these characters, in the end, and I was pleasantly surprised by the denouement of the sexual abuse storyline. So, in summary, solidly good book, somewhat predictable but entertaining. And I am actually going to miss these characters now that I am done! ...more This book is A LOT like The Truth About Forever but the story line is very different... personally I liked The Truth About Forever better because it's much more touching and sweet... but this book teaches a great deal of a lesson about truth. Truth haunts and lingers over you no matter what and you can never let it go. If you chose to ignore it... its going to overtake your future and the only way out is to follow it through. Shhh, Annabel. It's just me. That part was fantastic! I really thought This book is A LOT like The Truth About Forever but the story line is very different... personally I liked The Truth About Forever better because it's much more touching and sweet... but this book teaches a great deal of a lesson about truth. Truth haunts and lingers over you no matter what and you can never let it go. If you chose to ignore it... its going to overtake your future and the only way out is to follow it through. Shhh, Annabel. It's just me. That part was fantastic! I really thought it was only Will's evil words repeating over and over in her mind killing her but actually it was her all along! To tell her to listen to herself, her heart... that was great! Rolly is hilarious! He falls in love with a girl named Clark, one of the most stupidest way I've heard of... she punched him, REALLY hard. LOL! I also really loved how the dad explained why the past, our history, is so important. \"No matter how much time has passed, these things still affect us and the world we live in. If you don't pay attention to the past, you'll never understand the future. It's all linked together. You see what I'm saying?\" Our past is always there, we can choose to ignore it, but it's still there. ROFL On page 191! \"On our other side, there was a couple about our age eating waffles, both in running clothes: The girl had blonde hair and an elastic around her wrist, while the guy was taller and darker, the bottom part of a tattoo just visible under his shirtsleeve.\" LOL THAT IS SOOO MACY AND WES in The Truth About Forever! Plus remember they ate waffles? Hehe this book is soo cool! It's like another story parallel to the another story :D and they come in contact at times... LOL World of Waffles... cheers! xP (I have to eat there sometime!) Don't judge... just listen. Or read it. :D ...more Ok so if you know me, you know how I am with books that everyone loves. I am SO reluctant to read them that I actually find excuses to NOT read them (the lamest excuse: I have too much homework... Yeah, right. As if that's stopped me before). It's just that sometimes I don't like books that everyone else does... And sometimes they're just so amazing!! Like a million people were asking me to \"READ THIS NOW OR FACE THE CONSEQUENCES\" and I kept dodging them. But finally I caved cuz I had nothing els Ok so if you know me, you know how I am with books that everyone loves. I am SO reluctant to read them that I actually find excuses to NOT read them (the lamest excuse: I have too much homework... Yeah, right. As if that's stopped me before). It's just that sometimes I don't like books that everyone else does... And sometimes they're just so amazing!! Like a million people were asking me to \"READ THIS NOW OR FACE THE CONSEQUENCES\" and I kept dodging them. But finally I caved cuz I had nothing else to read and I actually BOUGHT it. I decided to read it at my boarding school (where I have no wifi, ugh) so my reading process was really slow. So when I got home day before yesterday, I still had a few chapters left. And let me tell you, it KILLED me that couldn't update cuz holy damn. What a book. Flipping hell, I've never heard anything like it. And for the record, Owen's taste in music is...strange. If you like Top 20, chances are Owen would want to punch you in the face. He's a bit angry... Annabel, the main character, has been through so much!! It's just not that obvious at first. The majority of the book deals with her remembering past events that shaped her into what she is today. She let these define her, leading her to become a partial liar (or truth with-holder) to avoid conflict for herself and keep her mother happy. Again, why haven't I read this sooner? This is like MY type of book. Ugh. A NEW FAVORITE. Ok yeah that's it. ...more This book amazed me by how the author can turn a cheesy story into one that I cannot stop reading. I especially enjoyed its romance, which is slowly presented but so sweet. Friendship-toward-love relationship is the type I like. Under normal circumstances, I hate to read or watch movies about men and women who only know each other for a short couple of hours but start to make out, claiming they are deeply in love...For me, friendship is like the basic and primal level of romance. Skipping it to This book amazed me by how the author can turn a cheesy story into one that I cannot stop reading. I especially enjoyed its romance, which is slowly presented but so sweet. Friendship-toward-love relationship is the type I like. Under normal circumstances, I hate to read or watch movies about men and women who only know each other for a short couple of hours but start to make out, claiming they are deeply in love...For me, friendship is like the basic and primal level of romance. Skipping it to the next level is neither wise nor romantic. So I applaud the author for writing about Annable and Owen's love after being real good friend first. I also enjoy the family love in the book a lot. Although I don't seem to understand the true meaning behind that little bicycle story, I was deeply touched by Witney's diary about that incident, and how she feels about her love to her sisters(Witney's writing is so beautiful. It actually made me want to be a character under the author's pen so that I can write good essays in my English 1B class...) However, I don't quite like the last one hundred pages where Anabbel doesn't want to clarify the misunderstanding, and she drifts apart from Owen because of her secrets. Her leaving Owen in the club alone and not talking to him for a long time puzzled me. Maybe she's way too sentimental than I am so I couldn't understand what's in her head to make those stupic decisions... Anyways, I enjoy very much of the plot and the writing style of this book, kinda suspense and sweet for the most part. It's the first book of my record that give me a sense of keeping reading and not wanting to put it down. So, No Doubt! It's a Five Star book!! ...more In a nutshell, Just Listen is the story of Annabel Greene - the youngest daughter out of three, whose life is constructed of fragile silences and false beliefs. Annabel's needs are overshadowed by the troubles of her older sisters, and her parents are too busy with their own endeavors to pay much attention to her. Her entire world flips upside down after one horrendous night at a summer party, and after becoming the victim of merciless gossip, she is subdued to silence from her peers. That is un In a nutshell, Just Listen is the story of Annabel Greene - the youngest daughter out of three, whose life is constructed of fragile silences and false beliefs. Annabel's needs are overshadowed by the troubles of her older sisters, and her parents are too busy with their own endeavors to pay much attention to her. Her entire world flips upside down after one horrendous night at a summer party, and after becoming the victim of merciless gossip, she is subdued to silence from her peers. That is until she meets Owen, a music-obsessed loner who vowed to always tell the truth. When talking to him, Annabel realizes her appreciation for his candor and honesty... but will it be enough to get her to speak? It took me a whole hour to recuperate from finishing this book. I loved everything - the characters, the writing, the plot... Sarah Dessen once again weaves a story with so much substance it's hard to believe nothing felt overdone. While The Truth About Forever remains my favorite novel by Dessen, Just Listen comes close to claiming the title. ...more Wow! I loved it! I wasn't sure if I was going to like it, since I only read realistic fiction once in a while. I'm not so great at writing realistic fiction myself, so I have a lot of respect for authors that can write it well and make it interesting! And this book was more than just interesting, because it was totally likable. The characters and plot were thought out really well. It basically has the same plot as the book Speak--but I liked Just Listen better than Speak because there was more t Wow! I loved it! I wasn't sure if I was going to like it, since I only read realistic fiction once in a while. I'm not so great at writing realistic fiction myself, so I have a lot of respect for authors that can write it well and make it interesting! And this book was more than just interesting, because it was totally likable. The characters and plot were thought out really well. It basically has the same plot as the book Speak--but I liked Just Listen better than Speak because there was more to the story, and the main character was more interesting. I like that this book also made me think a lot about music... It kind of inspired me, as corny as that sounds. XD It's a great book. ...more Only my second, but my favorite Dessen and my favorite Dessen boy (Owen) so far. Loved the complex dynamic between the women in the book in particular, the friends, the sisters, mother and daughter. Chronic specificity of characters and stubborn detail brought story to life. Read from start to finish. *5 stars!* \"But being nice wasn't as easy as it seemed, especially when the rest of the world could be so mean.\" I LOVED THIS BOOK. Just, wow. Powerful, touching, down right emotional. There are two elements that I absolutely love in any book: an emphasis on family and character development. This book had those in spades. The story was beautifully written and, in my opinion, the flow was spot on. The title, Just Listen , fits this story to a tee and is told in the pov of Annabel Greene, the younge *5 stars!* \"But being nice wasn't as easy as it seemed, especially when the rest of the world could be so mean.\" I LOVED THIS BOOK. Just, wow. Powerful, touching, down right emotional. There are two elements that I absolutely love in any book: an emphasis on family and character development. This book had those in spades. The story was beautifully written and, in my opinion, the flow was spot on. The title, Just Listen , fits this story to a tee and is told in the pov of Annabel Greene, the youngest of three sisters. She lives in a modern styled home known as The Glass House, exposing them to their neighbors and passersby. From the outside, the Greene family seems perfect. Annabel was known for being in TV commercials and was dubbed as the girl who had it all. That was far from the truth. Her friendship with her best friends, Clarke and Sophie, had ended badly which left her isolated. Her sisters had moved out together and didn't call home much which left Annabel alone. She didn't have anyone to confide in so she bottled up her thoughts. When she was with her family, it was apparent how her parents would shield her from family problems and push her opinions aside because of her age. All Annabel ever did was do what she was told and listen. I liked Annabel. I liked her loyalty to her family. I understood her decisions. She was being bullied at school but she didn't want to burden her family by telling them so. She wanted to stop modeling but she didn't want to hurt her mother's feelings. She was hiding a secret from everyone because she was scared. Just Listen was realistic. One of my favorite aspects of this book was the relationship between Kirsten and Whitney, Annabel's sisters. They had a fall-out ever since Whitney was forced to move back home. They hardly spoke to one another. Their character growth as individuals was poignant and I cried my eyes out when they made up. Not one to inject herself into situations, Annabel quietly observed her sisters from the side. The narrative was so descriptive and thought provoking, throughout the entire book really, and it made my heart ache (in a good way). \"Music is the great uniter. An incredible force. Something that people who differ on everything and anything else can have in common.\" Annabel's growth wasn't as awe-inspiring to me as her sisters' but I still really enjoyed seeing her come out of her shell after meeting Owen. He was the broody, lonely guy at school who was always listening to music. Their friendship developed slowly but sweetly. Owen had a rule to always be honest and Annabel couldn't even fathom being so. His obsession with music was endearing. I loved that he tried to get her to be more open-minded about the different genres of music. I LOVED HIM. He was such a warmhearted guy and an incredibly wonderful brother. His interactions with his younger sister, Mallory, had me smiling wide. I loved that Annabel could be the \"older sister\" when it came to Mallory and you can see another side to her that's doesn't come out in her own home. The secondary characters made this book just as much as the main characters. And it's those kinds of stories that I find more believable and sucks you right in. I gave Just Listen 5 stars for the story. It's very much one about family and self-discovery in my opinion. The romance was subtle and sweet. I loved that it highlighted the importance of trust and communication, that you shouldn't be so quick to judge someone based on their appearance or demeanor. I highly recommend this book to all YA contemporary lovers. It was my first Sarah Dessen book and I must say, she hit this one out of the park. I cannot wait to read more of her work! \"Don't think or judge. Just listen.\" ...more See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads It's hard to rate a contemporary novel than say a paranormal or dystopian genre. You can't take in the world building or if it was original enough. Because it is all based on our current world and the laws and personalities of everyone. So in short, this took some time in reviewing and rating. Don't think or judge, just listen These words are screaming in my head right now and lord are they inspiring. Annabel, just your average girl used to be popular, had See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads It's hard to rate a contemporary novel than say a paranormal or dystopian genre. You can't take in the world building or if it was original enough. Because it is all based on our current world and the laws and personalities of everyone. So in short, this took some time in reviewing and rating. Don't think or judge, just listen These words are screaming in my head right now and lord are they inspiring. Annabel, just your average girl used to be popular, had one really popular friend and had everything right. But after summer holidays, everything turned upside down, or so she thought. I really think Just Listen puts your mind into perspective of Annabel's life, there's drama of all sorts; eating problems, romance, friendship, family, modelling. This contemporary novel is one of a kind and I have once again learned the same lesson. Speak By Laurie Anderson was an amazing book. And it taught me to speak up. Just Listen has pretty much the same story line but had more components. Annabel is a strong and quiet girl. She keeps to herself about what happened during summer, where everything turned upside down. Then she meets Owen, he is most definitely music obsessed and he is always telling the truth. They way Annabel and Owen developed was really interesting, it wasn't insta love and it wasn't like they were destined to be with each other. But how these two were like forced together, two loners at high school, was so intense to read. I must say there was a lot of reflecting back to the past in this book, but I think Sarah Dessen did a awesome job at it. It's not like info dumping, where it just gets ridiculous and boring. All of it was necessary and showed so much depth. Okay I confess, I suck at reviewing contemporary novels, as they have so much to them. If I say something, it's like I'm going to ruin the whole plot! So just get out there and read this book! Speak lovers and contemporary enthusiasts should totally give it a go as Sarah Dessen is a really reflective and emotional wrenching writer. ...more I enjoyed this book a lot! This was actually my first Sarah Dessen book that I read and now, i'm always looking forward to her books. Annabele Greene is going through a lot. She used to be your classic popular, high school girl. But one night changed everything. Ever since, she has kept a secret she refuses to tell. Now, Annabele has no friends, a bad relationship with her sister Whitney, and her mother just doesn't seem to understand her. And then she meets Owen Armstrong, a music fanatic that s I enjoyed this book a lot! This was actually my first Sarah Dessen book that I read and now, i'm always looking forward to her books. Annabele Greene is going through a lot. She used to be your classic popular, high school girl. But one night changed everything. Ever since, she has kept a secret she refuses to tell. Now, Annabele has no friends, a bad relationship with her sister Whitney, and her mother just doesn't seem to understand her. And then she meets Owen Armstrong, a music fanatic that soon becomes her friend. Annabel in my opinion, was an amazing character. She handled herself so well even after what happened that night. The story starts off with her and gets even better once she meets Owen. I loved Owen! He takes his music so seriously, it's laughable! If he was real and saw that comment, he'd kill me. No joke. But that's what I love about him as do others in this book. He's completely honest and won't think twice about lying to others. Annabele, however, refuses to tell the truth of what caused her life to come to this. (view spoiler) [ but with help from Owen, she chooses to tell her story after all (hide spoiler) ] This was a great book about being honest with others and standing up for yourself. This book had it all: Romance, Comedy, Mystery and quite a thrill! Well thought out and recommended to anyone who's looking for a good book. Amazing! ...more", "Title": "Just Listen"},
