{"Comments": "Three and a half stars. If you threw Carl Hiaasen and Stephen King\u2019s brains into a blender and pureed them with nutmeg and cinnamon, drank it like a protein shake and decided to take up writing, your resulting book might be this. You have death merchants,<---M> hounds from hell</---M>, grotesque monsters living in the San Francisco sewers and impending doom. For Hiaasen you have a huge dollop of quirkiness.<---F> Every character is quirky</---F>. Hand me a handy wipe, for I have quirk all over my shirt. <---C>Charlie Asher</---C> is a Three and a half stars. If you threw Carl Hiaasen and Stephen King\u2019s brains into a blender and pureed them with nutmeg and cinnamon, drank it like a protein shake and decided to take up writing, your resulting book might be this. You have death merchants, hounds from hell, grotesque monsters living in the San Francisco sewers and impending doom. For Hiaasen you have a huge dollop of quirkiness. Every character is quirky. Hand me a handy wipe, for I have quirk all over my shirt. Charlie Asher is a beta male (there\u2019s a funny addendum/quiz at the back of the book that lets you test to see whether you\u2019re a beta male), which puts him slightly above average in the human pecking order. Charlie has also been appointed to be a death merchant. That means his job is to find the souls of dead people. They\u2019re encased in a variety of objects, which glow red. Poor Charlie also needs to run his business, grieve for his late wife, take care of his newborn daughter, battle monsters and deal with lots of quirky people. This is a funny book, with a few memorable characters (sarcastic Goth girl Lily and a seven-foot black man who dresses in a green suit and goes by the name of Minty Fresh, to name a few \u2013 yeah, quirky); however, if it was half the length and had half the quirk, I\u2019d have liked it even more. ...more Go read this book. Now. It's hilarious, you will not regret it. That is all the review it requires. =) It seems to me that Moore wants to be a cross between Stephen King and Dave Barry, and for the first half of this book, he nearly succeeds. But once he reaches the midway point, he falls into the trap of trying to squeeze in every one-liner he can -- the result is that all of his characters end up speaking in the same, snarky voice, and no one really seems to be anything other than a generic, stock character. This tends to be a consistent problem in all of his books I've read to date - he seems It seems to me that Moore wants to be a cross between Stephen King and Dave Barry, and for the first half of this book, he nearly succeeds. But once he reaches the midway point, he falls into the trap of trying to squeeze in every one-liner he can -- the result is that all of his characters end up speaking in the same, snarky voice, and no one really seems to be anything other than a generic, stock character. This tends to be a consistent problem in all of his books I've read to date - he seems to value his own cleverness as far as crafting one-off jokes rather than trusting that humor will naturally arise from well crafted situations and characters. As comedic novels go, in this case Moore has taken a brilliant premise, then crafted a second or third-rate sitcom around it. In short, it feels like a first draft rather than a completed novel. However, his books do continue to grow in popularity (which should be no surprise to me given that \"Two and a Half Men\" is consistently in the Nielsen top 10). And I keep reading his work because there is always a lot of promise in the basic concepts. Next time, I hope he has a strong editor that will send him back to tighten up his plotlines and more clearly define his characters so that his next novel will live up to the description on the book jacket. Even more \"meh\". ...more Let me preface this by saying I LOVE <---A>Christopher Moore</---A>. L-O-V-E. If he wrote a grocery list, I'd read it rapturously. This book (along with Lamb, which I will also review shortly) is one of my absolute favorites of his. \"<+++>A Dirty Job</+++>\" may be his funniest, wittiest book yet (although \"Lamb\" is pretty close....). This book has the average Beta male, Charlie Asher, his dead wife, their newborn daughter, little old Asian and Russian babysitters, a jailbait goth girl store clerk, expensive suits, hell Let me preface this by saying I LOVE Christopher Moore. L-O-V-E. If he wrote a grocery list, I'd read it rapturously. This book (along with Lamb, which I will also review shortly) is one of my absolute favorites of his. \"<+++>A Dirty Job</+++>\" may be his funniest, wittiest book yet (although \"Lamb\" is pretty close....). This book has the average Beta male, Charlie Asher, his dead wife, their newborn daughter, little old Asian and Russian babysitters, a jailbait goth girl store clerk, expensive suits, hellhounds, Death Merchants, Three Fingered Hu (the drycleaner and his granddaughter Cindy Lou Hu...get it???), squirrels in tutus, Filipino she-male dating sites, and a seven foot tall black record store owner driving a Cadillac Eldorado and dressed in green suits whose name is Minty Fresh, AND it is dedicated to hospice workers and the important work they do. How could you not love it?? Moore has a smart, comical way of writing that just tickles my brain in that oh so delicious way that makes me just love language even more, and this book does not disappoint. His surreal, absurdist humor is sublime. However, he tempers that humour with a compassion,a humanness, an ability to make one look at universal truths and the human condition (in this book's case, death, dying, love, how we deal with our fears and the death of those we love, different tenents of world religions, destiny, the epic battle of good vs. evil, etc). When one looks past the comedy, one can see so much more in his novels. His writing is irreverent, wickedly fun, engaging, thoughtful and leaves you smiling, satisfied, giggling (and groaning) and full of all sorts of metaphysical thoughts. Moore thoroughly draws you into his unique world and completely engages you. And this book is set in San Francisco and is full of lovely little descriptions and anecdotes about the city (which had me snickering and nodding as I love SF, but even if you don't know the city, it will make you feel like you'd like to). I'm one of those people who, when I read a book I enjoy this much, love to jot down the poignant, funny, smart lines that really struck me or made me say \"now THIS is writing\"; with this book, it was just too big a task. There are delightful one-liners peppered throughout, beautiful passages, and dialogue that has me snickering every other page. All in all, this book vies for the title My Favorite Moore Book, and definitely for one of the funniest books I've ever had the pleasure of reading. Try it: you'll giggle, you'll sigh, you'll think. Trust me. Like Bear. *giggle, snort* ...more After the birth of his daughter, Charlie Asher, mild-mannered Beta Male, finds his life upended--and not just because he's become a new father. Through a strange course of events, he finds that he has been selected to be a Death Merchant, harvesting the souls of the dead and helping them on their journey to transcendence. The job, unfortunately, comes with a shit-ton of problems, such as being suspected of murder; hellhounds unexpectedly manifesting in his home; sewer harpies taunting him at eve After the birth of his daughter, Charlie Asher, mild-mannered Beta Male, finds his life upended--and not just because he's become a new father. Through a strange course of events, he finds that he has been selected to be a Death Merchant, harvesting the souls of the dead and helping them on their journey to transcendence. The job, unfortunately, comes with a shit-ton of problems, such as being suspected of murder; hellhounds unexpectedly manifesting in his home; sewer harpies taunting him at every turn; encounters with an army of small, nattily dressed chimera; the perpetual threat of the Forces of Darkness rising if he fails; and the disconcerting knowledge that his daughter can kill by simply pointing and uttering that most powerful and fear inducing of words: \"kitty.\" Plus, \"Hi, I'm Death. With the big 'D'\" doesn't really work as a pick-up line with the ladies. He's got ninety-nine problems, but a bitch ain't one. His guide to his new lifestyle is The Great Big Book of Death , which really isn't that big. Or informative. Really it's just a lot of cartoonish pictures with such helpful tips as \"In order to hold off the Forces of Darkness, you will need a number two pencil and a calendar.\" Death shops at Staples. Sucks to be Charlie. There are a lot of words that I could throw around about Moore's writing: zany, wacky, demented, hilarious. But let's go ahead and toss \"poignant\" on the list. Trust me, everything you expect from a Moore novel is here, but one of the things I admire about his stories is that, for all the strangeness getting stranger, there's a well-spring of compassion and respect for humanity in his work that can surface when you least expect it. It should be no surprise that people die in a book about death, but what may catch many off guard is the genuine respect Moore demonstrates for the passing of a human life and a keen understanding that \"Most of us don't live our lives with one, integrated self that meets the world, we're a whole bunch of selves. When someone dies, they all integrate into the soul--the essence of who we are, beyond the different faces we wear throughout our lives.\" Moments like this are what elevate Moore's work above pure screwball comedic writing. He has a keen understanding that life is absurdity and that humor is the best coping mechanism we have. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more I struggled to find a pigeonhole for this book, so I did a quick internet search to find some help. This just confused me more -- take your pick of genres: dark humour, supernatural horror, absurdist fiction, paranormal and more. Whatever it is, I found it to be funny. Is it my usual fancy? Probably not. I generally like my humorous reads to straddle the edge of believability, and this went a bit further than that. I accept though the boundaries of other people's imaginations can stretch a lot fu I struggled to find a pigeonhole for this book, so I did a quick internet search to find some help. This just confused me more -- take your pick of genres: dark humour, supernatural horror, absurdist fiction, paranormal and more. Whatever it is, I found it to be funny. Is it my usual fancy? Probably not. I generally like my humorous reads to straddle the edge of believability, and this went a bit further than that. I accept though the boundaries of other people's imaginations can stretch a lot further than mine. The book is slickly written and it tweaked my funnybone quite a few times. It is a good story with some wonderfully bizarre characters, which I very much like. I was fine with the sexual references. I confess it took me six weeks to read this book. But my sluggishness had much more to do with my busy work schedule than the ease of the read. Having cleared my work commitments, I ripped through the last third of the book today. I found the ending to be a rollercoaster, with a nice little twist at the end. ...more What is that, you might ask? Well, in Moore's words: \"When Alpha Males set out to conquer neighboring tribes, to count coups and take heads, Beta Males could see in advance that in the event of victory, the influx of female slaves was going to leave a surplus of mateless women cast out for younger trophy models, with nothing to do but salt down the heads and file the uncounted coups, and some would find solace in the arms of any Beta Male smart enough to survive.... The world is led by Alpha Male What is that, you might ask? Well, in Moore's words: \"When Alpha Males set out to conquer neighboring tribes, to count coups and take heads, Beta Males could see in advance that in the event of victory, the influx of female slaves was going to leave a surplus of mateless women cast out for younger trophy models, with nothing to do but salt down the heads and file the uncounted coups, and some would find solace in the arms of any Beta Male smart enough to survive.... The world is led by Alpha Males, but the machinery of the world turns on the bearings of the Beta Male.... When Charlie finds himself a widower with an infant daughter, his Beta Male imagination can't find any way to cope. Until he finds that he's been chosen for a new avocation - a Merchant of Death. His job is to collect souls, bound to objects owned by the dying, and to make sure they get into the right hands. People come to his shop, Asher's Secondhand, and buy what they need. And occasionally, they need a soul. For such a funny book, Moore has put a really interesting metaphysical idea in this book. That idea is kind of creepy - not everybody has a soul. At least, not all the time. Souls need to learn and develop. Unfortunately, one person's life is not always enough time in which to learn those important lessons. So when the body dies, the soul moves on. But not necessarily into another person. Sometimes it might go into an object - a CD, a pair of sneakers, an umbrella - to await their next body. Charlie Asher's job - his and the other Merchants of Death - is to make sure those souls are kept safe until their next owners come by to collect them. Of course, it's never quite that easy. While being a Merchant of Death certainly helps Charlie in the years following his wife's death, there are Dark Forces out there who want those souls. With human souls, the Dark Forces will become stronger, strong enough to decide who will be the Luminatus - the new, true Death. This book packs a lot into nearly 400 pages. There's the humor, of course, the absurdist fantasy humor that Christopher Moore does so very well. But there's also the philosophy of souls that I hadn't come across before, and - most central to the book - a good hard look at death. This book is dedicated in part to hospice workers, the people who volunteer to help people out of this life and into the next, the people who have the strength to deal with one of the most frightening aspects of human existence. While Moore's presentation of death and dying certainly isn't pretty, or necessarily reassuring, it isn't scary. It's purposeful and important and, more importantly, bigger than the person who is doing the dying. From time to time, we all need to look at this inevitability and resolve to meet it with the same dignity and reverence that we would meet any other great moment in our lives. For a guy who makes a living writing funny fantasy/horror, Moore has done a very nice job at making his point. Oh, and I mentioned before the subject of his endings, how they usually seem to be kind of forced and too fast. This is better than his earlier works, although you do kind of see the ending coming from really far away. Not a bad thing, necessarily, but perhaps a bit like death itself - you know what the ending will be, but you try to make yourself forget so that it'll be a surprise when you get there.... Or something. ...more I wanted to read Moore's book Lamb, but it was checked out so I picked up A Dirty Job instead. It maybe was a bad sample of his work, but as luck would have it, it's what I read, wanting to stop in several places, but hoping it would redeem itself. No such luck. The book was hard to follow timewise-- basically you don't know if action is taking place over a week or 6 years. The characters are flat and annoying, and the dialogue is the same. The book is also misogynistic and racist at points, whi I wanted to read Moore's book Lamb, but it was checked out so I picked up A Dirty Job instead. It maybe was a bad sample of his work, but as luck would have it, it's what I read, wanting to stop in several places, but hoping it would redeem itself. No such luck. The book was hard to follow timewise-- basically you don't know if action is taking place over a week or 6 years. The characters are flat and annoying, and the dialogue is the same. The book is also misogynistic and racist at points, which I'm sure the author saw as \"gentle teasing\" but in actuality was quite disgusting. In the end, my interest in reading any of Christopher Moore's other books has been permanently put to rest. ...more I am a big fan of Moore, he is witty, kooky, has a penchant for the occult and tells a good story. Way back in HS I read Piers Anthony's On a Pale Horse , and this is a satirical, humorous variation on that theme. Moore is stringing together elements of his other novels and has recurring characters, all the more fun. A Dirty Job deals with the tale of Charlie Asher, the owner of an antique store in San Francisco who is a \u201cbeta male\u201d as opposed to an alpha and he is raising his daughter alone follo I am a big fan of Moore, he is witty, kooky, has a penchant for the occult and tells a good story. Way back in HS I read Piers Anthony's On a Pale Horse , and this is a satirical, humorous variation on that theme. Moore is stringing together elements of his other novels and has recurring characters, all the more fun. A Dirty Job deals with the tale of Charlie Asher, the owner of an antique store in San Francisco who is a \u201cbeta male\u201d as opposed to an alpha and he is raising his daughter alone following his wife\u2019s death. Charlie is a \u201cdeath merchant\u201d meaning that he finds, collects and protects souls from the forces of the underworld. Moore includes elements of the strange and bizarre, mythological and fantastic characters (like the Irish Morrigan) and also Orcus of Advanced Dungeons and Dragons fame (and Roman and Etruscan myth). One of Moore\u2019s better books, it is told with humor and warmth and would be a good introduction to his work. A fan of Neil Gaiman's American Gods and Kevin Hearne's Iron Druid series would also like this. ...more A Dirty Job is a hell of a book. Get it? Hell-of-a-book? Eh. Christopher Moore is one sick bastard. That\u2019s the only explanation I came up with for the stuff he threw at me. And yes, that\u2019s a compliment. This guy rocks. So what do we have here? A total geeky Beta Male who becomes Death. Check. Snoop Dogg aka Minty Fresh (yes, that is his real name) as a faithful sidekick. Check. A baby who owns two hellhounds and kills with the word \u201ckitty\u201d. Check. Hot bird creatures that give men hand jobs in dark alley A Dirty Job is a hell of a book. Get it? Hell-of-a-book? Eh. Christopher Moore is one sick bastard. That\u2019s the only explanation I came up with for the stuff he threw at me. And yes, that\u2019s a compliment. This guy rocks. So what do we have here? A total geeky Beta Male who becomes Death. Check. Snoop Dogg aka Minty Fresh (yes, that is his real name) as a faithful sidekick. Check. A baby who owns two hellhounds and kills with the word \u201ckitty\u201d. Check. Hot bird creatures that give men hand jobs in dark alleys. Check. Squirrel creatures in pink tutus. Check. Yep, this book has it all. Would I recommend? Yes, totally. But only if you\u2019re into dark humor and don\u2019t mind the whole death mood that Moore has going on. One of my favorite scenes in the book: (view spoiler) [ Mint Green Death sighed heavily. \u201cI guess we\u2019re going to be here awhile. I\u2019m going to make some coffee. Do you want some?\u201d \u201cSure, try to lull me into a false sense of security, then spring.\u201d \u201cYou\u2019re tied the fuck up, motherfucker, I don\u2019t need to lull you into shit. You\u2019ve been fucking with the fabric of human existence and someone needed to shut your ass down.\u201d \u201cOh, sure, go black on me. Play the ethnic card.\u201d Mint Green climbed to his feet and headed toward the door to the shop. \u201cYou want cream?\u201d \u201cAnd two sugars, please,\u201d Charlie said. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Charlie Asher is a pretty regular guy having a regular life, until he sees death hovering over his wife following the birth of their first child. Strange things begin to happen and it takes a while before Charlie learns that he has been selected as a Death Merchant, a collector of the souls of those nearly or recently deceased. The job comes with a rulebook which, like most instructional manuals is of limited value. It gets even weirder when he learns that his baby girl has a bit of power all he Charlie Asher is a pretty regular guy having a regular life, until he sees death hovering over his wife following the birth of their first child. Strange things begin to happen and it takes a while before Charlie learns that he has been selected as a Death Merchant, a collector of the souls of those nearly or recently deceased. The job comes with a rulebook which, like most instructional manuals is of limited value. It gets even weirder when he learns that his baby girl has a bit of power all her own. Moore\u2019s cast of quirky characters includes dueling babysitters, middle aged ladies from China and Russia, a goth 16-year-old assistant and an ex-cop who works for him in his second hand shop. His lesbian sister is quite sympathetic even if she does keep stealing suits from his closet. And oh, yeah, he is pursued by creatures from below, sewer-harpies who long to return to the land above for a little bloodletting, with Charlie and his baby topping their menus. This is literally laugh-out-loud funny. He goes a bit too dark I thought in describing details of the harpies\u2019 endeavors, but this is a wonderful, fun read. ...more It relies too much on a type of humor that won't tickle everyone. The first section, 100 pages or so were almost exclusively this, without much plot. While initially funny, I almost got tired enough of it to put it down, but there was just enough hope to keep me going. I'm glad I did. After that, the plot developed nicely & it was a fun read. It's a neat world that Moore created with a fun mythology about Death & he takes an insider look at San Francisco that will tickle any native, I th It relies too much on a type of humor that won't tickle everyone. The first section, 100 pages or so were almost exclusively this, without much plot. While initially funny, I almost got tired enough of it to put it down, but there was just enough hope to keep me going. I'm glad I did. After that, the plot developed nicely & it was a fun read. It's a neat world that Moore created with a fun mythology about Death & he takes an insider look at San Francisco that will tickle any native, I think. I'd guess someone who lived there would give it at least another star. ...more While I enjoyed the story line and found myself laughing out loud at some of the dialogue, this wasn't a book that kept me racing to the end. I'm happy I read it and would recommend it to others who are looking for a truly unique (and weird) read. I plan to give Moore another try in the near future...not sure which book yet. SUMMARY: funny dialogue. great premise. filled with plot leaks, story holes, and characters who start off strong and end weak. The book started off with great premise: for some unknown reason a guy assumes the office/duties of DEATH. It was reminiscent of \"On a Pale Horse\" by Piers Anthony. It's hilarious for the first 2 sections. It reads like an action screenplay. I pictured Paul Rudd (40 year old virgin) as the main character, Asher. All was well and then the book tanked in section 3. I don't SUMMARY: funny dialogue. great premise. filled with plot leaks, story holes, and characters who start off strong and end weak. The book started off with great premise: for some unknown reason a guy assumes the office/duties of DEATH. It was reminiscent of \"On a Pale Horse\" by Piers Anthony. It's hilarious for the first 2 sections. It reads like an action screenplay. I pictured Paul Rudd (40 year old virgin) as the main character, Asher. All was well and then the book tanked in section 3. I don't know what happened to the plot and characters. The characters had life and personality then they became wooden versions of the same characters in sections 1 and 2. and the plot started to smell like a Tarantino/Rodriguez action script complete with tall badass black man with big guns. One character, Lily, is a 16 year old in the beginning and then a 21 year old later and she goes from goth to chef sex therapist... from witty bantress to banal and pointless to the plot. At one point daughter kills an arab for no aparent reason except for us to get a whiff of Moore's feelings on Middle Easterners. And apparently there are cameos of characters from other books in here, but I think Moore needs to ditch the self-referential humor. It backfires on SNL and also here too. I'm going to read \"You Suck\" next. Maybe I'll appreciate Moore more after that. SPOILER ALERT ******* I still thought the book was hilarious, but it's hard for me to believe the main character's inability to see his daughter as the Luminatis. How stupid does he have to be? ********************* ...more Charlie Asher (Beta Male) suddenly finds himself widowed after the birth of his daughter, Sophie. He also finds himself the newest recruit of Death. No, he is not The Death, he is simply to collect the souls of the recenly departed and store them until they are ready to be placed with a new body. He is a Death Merchant, or at least that is the name coined by Mr Fresh, the record store owner who collected his wife's soul. As if all of this wasn't enough, poor Charlie has to figure out how to keep Charlie Asher (Beta Male) suddenly finds himself widowed after the birth of his daughter, Sophie. He also finds himself the newest recruit of Death. No, he is not The Death, he is simply to collect the souls of the recenly departed and store them until they are ready to be placed with a new body. He is a Death Merchant, or at least that is the name coined by Mr Fresh, the record store owner who collected his wife's soul. As if all of this wasn't enough, poor Charlie has to figure out how to keep his little girl from pointing at people and saying, \"Kitty\". You see, they seem to drop dead after she does it. There is also the issue of the Hellhounds. Yes, he is grateful Sophie has some pets that can finally survive her special talent, but they are a little hard to explain to the neighbors. Death is a hard subject to wrap your mind around, much less find humorous, but somehow Moore does it. He manages to make it touching and funny at the same time. I loved it! ...more This was cute and fun and delightful... ...until it wasn't. Here's the weird thing about this book. That cover, it intrigues me, it always has. I see it and think, \"I want to read that!\" but then I never do. Or do I? Because I popped this audiobook into my super-modern six-disc changer that resides in the trunk of my car (seriously, how did anyone ever think that was a good idea?) and immediately felt a sense of deja-vu which lasted for, oh, I dunno...maybe 7 discs? I think I know what happened. I th This was cute and fun and delightful... ...until it wasn't. Here's the weird thing about this book. That cover, it intrigues me, it always has. I see it and think, \"I want to read that!\" but then I never do. Or do I? Because I popped this audiobook into my super-modern six-disc changer that resides in the trunk of my car (seriously, how did anyone ever think that was a good idea?) and immediately felt a sense of deja-vu which lasted for, oh, I dunno...maybe 7 discs? I think I know what happened. I think I checked the CD out awhile ago, listened to it and then had a problem somewhere around disc 7. Maybe the next disc was missing or maybe 7 was so scratched, I couldn't finish listening. Whatever the case, I returned it and forgot to check it out again later. That makes the most sense so we'll go with it. I can't say this isn't charming and delightful and hilarious. I was laughing along until the razor wit and the slightly-racist barbs (and sometimes not-so-slight at all) and the gentle-poking-fun-at-everyone thing began to grow tiresome and a bit painful. I kept checking the copyright date, thinking it had been written in the 90's when we could so easily get away with this shit but, no. It's 10-years old. This was in 2006 when we pretty much knew better than to take cheap shots at all of humanity. I can only assume this is satire, then. Also, it has recently come to my attention that beta males are not actually this charming and adorable but are, rather, planning the enslavement and/or death of the female population , or, at least, the young, attractive female population in which case, I no longer have to worry. So the lesson here is that beta males aren't cute and they shouldn't be encouraged, despite what this book would lead you to believe. Fisher Stevens reads this (remember him? Such a cutie back in the day! Not so much ever since. I'm sure he's a nice guy, though) and does a fairly decent job, though I'd argue his voice for Lily, Ray, and the detective. But whatever. Minor quibbles. All and all, I enjoyed it 2.5 stars worth and will probably accidentally re-listen to it in five years when I forgot I've already read it. And, yes, I've got the next one on hold, so I can listen to that, too, and then forget I ever read it. ...more Yeah... I'm counting the Squirrel People as zombies. Adorable, perfectly dressed little animal-part zombies. Anyway. I chose this book for my upcoming Real-Life Bookclub because, well... It's Christopher Moore. He makes me laugh, and since this bookclub happens to fall the day after my 31st birthday, I figured some laughing was in order. Because otherwise, there would be crying. Lots, and lots of crying. (Side note. I have stumbled across a surefire way to tell when you're \"old\". Watch 15 minute Yeah... I'm counting the Squirrel People as zombies. Adorable, perfectly dressed little animal-part zombies. Anyway. I chose this book for my upcoming Real-Life Bookclub because, well... It's Christopher Moore. He makes me laugh, and since this bookclub happens to fall the day after my 31st birthday, I figured some laughing was in order. Because otherwise, there would be crying. Lots, and lots of crying. (Side note. I have stumbled across a surefire way to tell when you're \"old\". Watch 15 minutes of Youtube videos featuring kids, pre-teens or teens, and keep track of how many words you hear on the videos that you need to look up on UrbanDictionary.com. If it's any - you're old. I had to look up 3, which means I'm OLD OLD OLD. Hence the crying.) So, yes. Christopher Moore, laughing. That was to be expected, but what I did not expect from this book was the depth of emotion. And that right there is when I knew that I was probably going to love this book. I loved how with a subtle turn of phrase, Moore could have me laughing out loud or wiping away tears. This was something that I had not experienced before with any of his other books, and I really, really loved it. I liked all the characters in this one as well. They had their quirks, as per the Moore Standard, but they weren't over the top. I sometimes feel that writers trying to go for quirky and funny generally step over the line into the Too Much zone. But I don't think that Moore has that problem, at least not in this book. I did find certain key things to be quite predictable, and that's why I've dropped a star off the rating, but overall, I really loved the book and would wholeheartedly recommend it. And now it's time for me to go to bed, because I'm fighting off a cold and it's like 2am. *sigh* ...more Don't read this book! The characters are at best one-dimensional and at worst the product of a racist white man who is unimaginative and unclear of the line between clever satire and misperception of the world around him. The main character is a white man but the supporting cast are all drawn from offensive stereotypes (racial and otherwise): a big black man who is sassy, violent and who gets accused of pulling \"the race card\" for no apparent reason; an old Russian grandmother who's always talki Don't read this book! The characters are at best one-dimensional and at worst the product of a racist white man who is unimaginative and unclear of the line between clever satire and misperception of the world around him. The main character is a white man but the supporting cast are all drawn from offensive stereotypes (racial and otherwise): a big black man who is sassy, violent and who gets accused of pulling \"the race card\" for no apparent reason; an old Russian grandmother who's always talking about bears and who steals a dead goldfish to fry up for her dinner; an elderly Chinese woman who can't pronounce Rs and who grew up in a village where baby girls were unceremoniously killed. There's even a teenage girl character with an eating disorder she acquired from her time as a ballerina. I haven't read something so casually offensive in a long time. Throw in the awkward attempts at humor -- lots of words like 'butt-nugget' and turns-of-phrases like 'the long Ambien' to refer to death -- and it's much more annoying than you would have thought possible. ...more This is a lot of silliness blended with charm and heart and it could just be what the doctor ordered. The medicine was strong for me. I can only take so much laughing in one sitting, and the drug starts to lose its power. The madcap plot takes you over the top into a land where a bumbling sweetheart Charlie Asher, a junk dealer, becomes some sort of assistant to Death. It takes him awhile to figure out his assignment as communications were bollixed. He\u2019s the owner of Asher\u2019s Secondhand Store in This is a lot of silliness blended with charm and heart and it could just be what the doctor ordered. The medicine was strong for me. I can only take so much laughing in one sitting, and the drug starts to lose its power. The madcap plot takes you over the top into a land where a bumbling sweetheart Charlie Asher, a junk dealer, becomes some sort of assistant to Death. It takes him awhile to figure out his assignment as communications were bollixed. He\u2019s the owner of Asher\u2019s Secondhand Store in San Franciso\u2019s Chinatown, and your heart is with him as he deals with his beloved wife\u2019s death at the hospital and tends to the care of his infant daughter Sophie. He is such an obsessive worry-wart, touching in his last conversation with his wife, Rachel \u201cCan I bring you anything from home?\u201d \u201cI\u2019ll be fine. The ready kit you packed covered everything, I think. In fact, I may not even need the fire extinguisher\u201d Two immigrant widows pitch in to help with raising Sophie, the Russian Mrs. Korchev and the Chinese Mrs. Ling. What they had in common, besides being widows and immigrants, was a deep love for little Sophie, a precarious grasp on the English language, and a passionate lack of confidence in Charlie Asher\u2019s ability to raise his daughter alone. Mrs. Korchev as a \u201cRussian soul, conditioned by a thousand years of angst, really wasn\u2019t equipped for unbridled happiness\u201d. Mrs. Ling is more jovial, a true believer in mystical signs, and gifted in cooking wholesome things they often couldn\u2019t identify. Hopefully, she wasn\u2019t using roadkill in her dishes. In serving up a strange vegetable that \u201ctasted like a melon but looked more like a squash, with spikes\u201d, Mrs. Ling had called it \u201cshut-up-and-eat-it-good-for you\u201d. That serves to give you the setting and the flavor of Moore\u2019s divine knack for zany characterization and warmth in his humor. Soon the plot starts getting Gothic and Charlie has to take on the tasks of a superhero in fighting the forces of darkness. He is mystified when giant ravens keep trying to attack him and possibly Sophie, and he hears threatening voices coming out of the sewer grates in the street. And some of the items in is junkstore start glowing red in the dark. He then gets a strange call that leads him to the acquaintance of a very tall black man dressed in green whom he saw briefly at the hospital the night his wife died. The message he gets is that if he fails to do his job as Death\u2019s assistant \u201cDarkness will cover the world and Chaos will reign\u201d. Mum\u2019s the word on what his task is. In Charlie\u2019s campaign, I can say that he gets some help from the natty black giant (a record store owner) and a colorful cast of other characters, including his lesbian sister (who keeps pestering him to ease his problems by getting laid), his teenaged Goth clerk at his store (who has intercepted his \u201cassignment\u201d), and an ex-policeman tenant (who suspects Charlie is a serial killer). But mostly Charlie struggles alone, trying to figure out the mystery of what he is up against. Charlie characterizes himself as a Beta male, the crafty type that lets the Alphas go out to attack a mastodon and that can \u201cimagine in advance that attacking what was essentially an angry, woolly bulldozer with a pointy stick might be a losing proposition, so they hung back at camp to console the grieving widows\u201d. But the threats get so much that he takes the courage to begin fighting back. One day he goes after the crones which he designates the \u201cSewer Harpies\u201d with fireworks: \u201cWe\u2019ll peck your eyes like ripe plums\u201d, hissed a female voice out of the drain. \u201cBring us up, Meat. Bring us up so we can lap your blood from the gaping wound we tear in your chest.\u201d \u201cAnd crunch your bones in our jaws like candy,\u201d added a different voice, also female. Charlie felt his entire body go to gooseflesh \u2026He lit four more M-80s, these with longer fuses, and tossed them one by one into the drain. \u201cWho\u2019s New Meat now?\u201d he said, \u201cWhat? What did he say?\u201d, said a sewer voice. \u201cI can\u2019t hear shit.\u201d The fun and mayhem of this tale has some of the heart that lies behind of a Carl Hiassen romp, though without his political messages. We get some mythic farce along the lines of Gilliam\u2019s movie \u201cLife of Brian\u201d, some of the flavor of a quirky fantasy by Pratchett or Gaiman, and a bit of the comic magical realism and romance of Tom Robbins. But Moore has his own special voice and methods, and this one is well worth checking out when you are in the right mood. ...more This is my third Christopher Moore book. The first was Lamb, which I recommend to anyone who's heard of a guy named Jesus. The second I can't even remember, only that I couldn't finish and it was about vampires or something. This one is about as good as the second I read. A Dirty Job starts with a fun premise - a sad sap becomes a collector and placer of souls called a Death Merchant. Then it deteriorates as evil forces come after him, giving him hand jobs in alleys and speaking to him from the s This is my third Christopher Moore book. The first was Lamb, which I recommend to anyone who's heard of a guy named Jesus. The second I can't even remember, only that I couldn't finish and it was about vampires or something. This one is about as good as the second I read. A Dirty Job starts with a fun premise - a sad sap becomes a collector and placer of souls called a Death Merchant. Then it deteriorates as evil forces come after him, giving him hand jobs in alleys and speaking to him from the sewer. Some hellhounds are involved and if you can't figure out who his daughter is by page 110 you must be pretty dense. The one-liners are horrendous and barely palatable. Overall, I wasn't into it. My husband loves Moore. A friend of his loves Moore. What can I say? I'm not a guy and I don't love him the way they do. ...more 4.0 stars. This was the first Christopher Moore story I ever read and did not know exactly what to expect. I was laughing out loud in the first 10 pages (the opening hospital scene was just great). The main character is Charlie Asher, self-described \"beta-male\" who owns a second-hand store in San Francisco. Following the unexpected death of his wife, Charlie takes on a new job, that of retrieving the souls of the dying with hilarious results. Smart and very funny but also emotionally touching. A 4.0 stars. This was the first Christopher Moore story I ever read and did not know exactly what to expect. I was laughing out loud in the first 10 pages (the opening hospital scene was just great). The main character is Charlie Asher, self-described \"beta-male\" who owns a second-hand store in San Francisco. Following the unexpected death of his wife, Charlie takes on a new job, that of retrieving the souls of the dying with hilarious results. Smart and very funny but also emotionally touching. An excellent read. Recommended!! ...more A Dirty Job is a very strange but hilarious paranormal urban fantasy novel, following the tale of an ordinary but unfortunate man whose life goes crazy the minute his child is born. It has similar tones to works by Tim Burton or vaguely Wes Anderson. It took me sometimes to finish it, the uni's exams session did break up my TBR, anyways I finally got sometime to relax and enjoy my readings. This book caught my eye in the bookstore for the creepy title and cover, and I was a goner once I read the sinapsis. Our hero, Charlie Asher, is a pretty normal guy with a normal life, a Beta guy inside out. He is married to a brilliant, pretty women and they are about to have their first kid. But when his wife dies, other deaths follow. People start drop It took me sometimes to finish it, the uni's exams session did break up my TBR, anyways I finally got sometime to relax and enjoy my readings. This book caught my eye in the bookstore for the creepy title and cover, and I was a goner once I read the sinapsis. Our hero, Charlie Asher, is a pretty normal guy with a normal life, a Beta guy inside out. He is married to a brilliant, pretty women and they are about to have their first kid. But when his wife dies, other deaths follow. People start dropping dead around him, he hears whispers from under the streets and see darks presence in San Francisco. Something is changing, seems like ,Charlie Asher, has just been recruited for a new job: as Death, or to better say it one death. It's a dirty job, but somebody's gotta do it. A Dirty Job is a good mix of genera, we have death merchants, hounds from hell, grotesque monster and an impending doom. Everything is concentrated on irony, all the characters are quirky and they always have a smart comeback. But all the quirkiness and irony, that are just right on spot in the first half of the book, are a mashup of bad humors and they get boring in the second part. The writing style is good from start to finish, he is really good in creating funny dialogue, but it loses some of that easy going vibe while you get to the end. Overall it's a funny book , it's a good laugh, easy and relaxing to read. I'll probably check out some of his other book! 3.5/5 STARS Blog full review + book trailer: http://bookscrumbles.blogspot.it/2017... ...more If you should ever wake up and find that you have become the main character in a Christopher Moore novel, do whatever it takes to get yourself out of there quickly. So far the protagonists of his stories have been beset by Zombie Santas, swallowed by whales, exiled to cannibal-infested islands in the tropics, and more recently, discovered they are Merchants of Death. So begins Christopher Moore's \"A Dirty Job,\" where life is full of promise for Charlie Asher, a well meaning if overly concerned A If you should ever wake up and find that you have become the main character in a Christopher Moore novel, do whatever it takes to get yourself out of there quickly. So far the protagonists of his stories have been beset by Zombie Santas, swallowed by whales, exiled to cannibal-infested islands in the tropics, and more recently, discovered they are Merchants of Death. So begins Christopher Moore's \"A Dirty Job,\" where life is full of promise for Charlie Asher, a well meaning if overly concerned Average Guy. He owns a secondhand shop, is happily (though somewhat incredulously) married to a beautiful woman and is looking forward to the birth of his first child. Unfortunately for Charlie, Death has other plans. Within just a few chapters Charlie finds himself on his own, struggling with some of the toughest questions he will ever have to face. Can he go on without the love of his life? How will he raise his baby daughter alone? Just what DID they do with her tail? And who the heck was that huge guy in the green suit coming out of his wife's room? Most of the time, Charlie is too busy trying to keep up with the bizarre antics of his friends, relatives and employees to really dwell on his loss. But when objects in his secondhand store begin to glow and people around him mysteriously meet their demise, Charlie begins to wonder if he's going crazy with grief. The real explanation is much more sinister, however, and if Charlie doesn't figure it out soon, there will be Hell to pay. Literally. \"A Dirty Job\" just may be Christopher Moore's best work to date. Though most of his books deal with loss in one way or another, this is the first time he has had a character that allowed him to explore in with such depth. The story manages to be both sentimental and surreal without going over the top in either direction, and even with the deep subject matter Moore's writing style makes the book a fast, fun read. His dialogue is always natural and well-paced, with just enough detail to give the reader a clear picture of the character while also allowing the imagination a little room to breathe. For longtime readers, new converts to Moore's work and anyone else who likes a different kind of fiction, \"A Dirty Job\" is a totally satisfying read that had me going between laughing out loud and smearing my mascara with every new chapter. This is one book that is truly worth the cover price. ...more Libro divertente che miscela e mescola vari generi per un cocktail davvero dissetante e frizzante per evadere qualche ora dalla realt\u00e0 quotidiana che ci circonda, o forse sarebbe meglio dire per guardarla con occhi diversi. Chiss\u00e0 mai cosa vediamo spuntare dal prossimo tombino? Ci troviamo a leggere di un maschio beta (Moore utilizza spesso la contrapposizione tra maschi beta e alfa: del tipo le donne passerebbero ore a parlare con un beta, ma alla fine si scoperebbero un alfa), di nome Charlie c Libro divertente che miscela e mescola vari generi per un cocktail davvero dissetante e frizzante per evadere qualche ora dalla realt\u00e0 quotidiana che ci circonda, o forse sarebbe meglio dire per guardarla con occhi diversi. Chiss\u00e0 mai cosa vediamo spuntare dal prossimo tombino? Ci troviamo a leggere di un maschio beta (Moore utilizza spesso la contrapposizione tra maschi beta e alfa: del tipo le donne passerebbero ore a parlare con un beta, ma alla fine si scoperebbero un alfa), di nome Charlie che si ritrover\u00e0 catapultato in una serie di avventure spassosissime e incredibili dopo essere diventato suo malgrado un \u201cmercante di morte\u201d, un traghettatore di anime. Un esistenza tranquilla arrivata al culmine con la nascita di una figlia e d\u2019improvviso gettato in pasto alle forze oscure. Quello che da forza al romanzo \u00e8 sicuramente la storia originale, ma \u00e8 sostenuta alquanto dai personaggi che ruotano attorno a Charlie: da citare su tutti sicuramente le vicine \u201cdel blocco orientale\u201d, che strappano pi\u00f9 di una volta una risata allegra. Ma da non dimenticare la figlia Sophie, i cani infernali, il Signor Menta Fresca; appunto la menta fresca da l\u2019idea della piacevole lettura che il lettore si trover\u00e0 ad affrontare: la frescura della fantasia e il pizzicore della comicit\u00e0. Il tutto ambientato nella citt\u00e0 di San Francisco che ben si adatta ad una storia cos\u00ec bizzarra, geniale e curiosa. Nel libro c\u2019\u00e8 spazio per molti generi il gothic fantasy per esempio, una punta di horror, un tocco di emozione in alcune parti toccanti, ma sempre con un sottofondo di comicit\u00e0 che fa sorridere con stile. Questo \u00e8 appunto il mix che rende speciale il tutto. Davvero consigliato a chi ha voglia di leggere qualcosa di originale, ben scritto e scorrevole. Adatto tra un libro impegnativo e l\u2019altro. Legger\u00f2 sicuramente gli altri suoi scritti. http://kelanthsblog.blogspot.com/ ...more I became interested in this book when I heard that it was funny. As I got into it and learned that it was filled with inappropriate and politically incorrect language plus described fantasy characters, I decided I wasn't going to like the book. Furthermore, the main theme of the book is death. How can that be funny? But I had a smile on my face all through the book and laughed out loud with great frequency in spite of myself. So I guess the book must be funny to do that. The story is set in San F I became interested in this book when I heard that it was funny. As I got into it and learned that it was filled with inappropriate and politically incorrect language plus described fantasy characters, I decided I wasn't going to like the book. Furthermore, the main theme of the book is death. How can that be funny? But I had a smile on my face all through the book and laughed out loud with great frequency in spite of myself. So I guess the book must be funny to do that. The story is set in San Francisco and there are frequent references to streets and places in the Bay Area. I've spent enough time in San Francisco to conjure up a mental image of the various action scenes. This book helps to explain why so many of those homeless people in San Francisco go around talking to themselves. (the previous sentence is said tongue-in-cheek) There is a strong emphasis in the book on the characteristics of a beta male. I could certainly identify with that! Below is a succinct description of the book taken from the PageADay Booklover's Calendar for 2008: KILLER FICTION As a beta male, Charlie is a guy who picks up after alpha males, avoids change, and worries about his children. But a peaceful life is not Charlie\u2019s fate: He has been chosen to become a \u201cDeath Merchant,\u201d a \u201csecret agent of karma\u201d who collects \u201csoul vessels\u201d containing the essence of the newly departed. Aiding or deterring Charlie in his new career are very large ravens; Lily the Goth girl; Ray, an ex-cop; Minty Fresh, another Death Merchant; and a pair of hellhounds. It\u2019s all Moore\u2019s way of satirizing death and our modern take on it, and it\u2019s wildly fast paced and wickedly funny. A DIRTY JOB , by Christopher Moore (William Morrow, 2006) ...more I can't remember the last time I read a raucously funny book. You know, the kind that sort of shocks and surprises you, that makes you laugh aloud in a conspicuous way. Christopher Moore's A Dirty Job did exactly that and was just what the mortician ordered when it came to relieving stress and just enjoying a freaking book. This story of a smart and cynical paranoid \"beta-male\" raising his somewhat strange daughter in the Bay Area takes the reader right to the edge of seriousness, staring mortali I can't remember the last time I read a raucously funny book. You know, the kind that sort of shocks and surprises you, that makes you laugh aloud in a conspicuous way. Christopher Moore's A Dirty Job did exactly that and was just what the mortician ordered when it came to relieving stress and just enjoying a freaking book. This story of a smart and cynical paranoid \"beta-male\" raising his somewhat strange daughter in the Bay Area takes the reader right to the edge of seriousness, staring mortality down its bony throat until we're just about to jump in front of a train and end it all, then pulls us off the tracks with something -- usually a one-liner -- so absurdly funny that we forget how depressed we just were. It's a long book but a quick read, dark at times but always moving forward. Granted, those who live in the Bay Area will easily recognize the city and its inhabitants, which makes for a pleasant reading experience, but really, anyone with a sense of humor will absolutely adore this bundle of joy. ...more This was my first Christopher Moore book and it felt just like reading Neil Gaiman and/or Terry Pratchett. And how does that feel? Well, it takes a subject that is both fanciful and dark and makes you laugh out loud at the absurdities that are thrown in for fun. I don't mean to say that Mr. Moore doesn't have his own style, but it is very similar to Gaiman and Pratchett and flawlessly so. There are a great many things I liked about this book and every one of them would spoil the magic of the stor This was my first Christopher Moore book and it felt just like reading Neil Gaiman and/or Terry Pratchett. And how does that feel? Well, it takes a subject that is both fanciful and dark and makes you laugh out loud at the absurdities that are thrown in for fun. I don't mean to say that Mr. Moore doesn't have his own style, but it is very similar to Gaiman and Pratchett and flawlessly so. There are a great many things I liked about this book and every one of them would spoil the magic of the story if I told you about it. If you like Mythos (I'm not sure what else to call legends about gods) and dark humor don't pass this one up! http://northdnvrnonzombie.wordpress.c... ...more This was so funny. Moore had me laughing throughout the book. It was such a fun book to read. Right from the beginning Charlie was such a funny character except when his wife dies at child birth but that is when his life took a spin and his daughter is also quite a character as well. I really enjoyed all the characters in this book and find this author has such a great sense of humor. This book was hilarious and original. That is all!", "Title": "A Dirty Job"},
