{"Comments": "Just brilliant. The book at first appears,<---M> right to the end</---M>, to be a rather mundane story of the life of an ordinary man who is neither perceptive about the people around him nor does he see himself in a clear light. Only at the end is it apparent that there were two different stories being written at the same time and you can perceive all the clues to the second story only in hindsight although they were so clear, you wonder how you could have missed them. You wonder how the protagonist could h Just brilliant. The book at first appears, right to the end, to be a rather mundane story of the life of an ordinary man who is neither perceptive about the people around him nor does he see himself in a clear light. Only at the end is it apparent that there were two different stories being written at the same time and you can perceive all the clues to the second story only in hindsight although they were so clear, you wonder how you could have missed them. You wonder how the protagonist could have misinterpreted, forgotten and ignored them as well. Or did he? Maybe it was just in reflection he could put all the pieces together.<---F> This is genius writing</---F>. This was two ways of reading a story, one written to be read in the usual way, forwards, and the other backwards, with hindsight. This is why Barnes won the Booker Prize. ...more When Veronika said, \u201dYou don\u2019t get it. You never did.\u201d I told myself: so, why don\u2019t you tell him? Grrr. If only these people (<---B>Barnes\u2019 characters</---B>) would sit down and discuss amongst themselves, then there will be no problem. Then <---C>Tony Webster</---C> will not have to spend all his life trying to grapple the memories he thought to be contained in his whole pathetic life. You see, Tony Webster is a double-sided man: he seems to be this gentle go-with-the-flow nice man who respects his girlfriend not to hav When Veronika said, \u201dYou don\u2019t get it. You never did.\u201d I told myself: so, why don\u2019t you tell him? Grrr. If only these people (Barnes\u2019 characters) would sit down and discuss amongst themselves, then there will be no problem. Then Tony Webster will not have to spend all his life trying to grapple the memories he thought to be contained in his whole pathetic life. You see, Tony Webster is a double-sided man: he seems to be this gentle go-with-the-flow nice man who respects his girlfriend not to have real sex until they are ready. However, when his girlfriend dumps him for Tony Webster\u2019s friend, he writes the bitterest letter that I\u2019ve read coming from a dumped lover. The kind of letter that would put to shame even the vilest and the most manipulating characters of Pierre Choderlos de Laclos in his masterpiece Les Liaisons Dangereuses. But that slow tease makes the reading very interesting and fun. The book is thin and the letters are big. Don\u2019t be deceived though. The brevity does not reflect the jam-packed plot and the intricate thoughts that go on inside the mind of Tony Webster. You see, the story is a book narrated in the first person and Tony Webster is what they call in literature, film or theatre, as unreliable narrator. Barnes deceives the reader into believing that the character of Tony Webster in the first part of the story will be consistent. Until the revelation in the second part but I did not feel disgustingly deceived. I was amused, surprised but definitely bewildered by the brilliancy on how Barnes put everything intricately together. The prose is crisp, clear and concise. Definitely British but it is not stiff and rigid. This is my first Barnes and I used to think before that his prose would be a challenge to enjoy. Definitely not: it is very readable and easy to comprehend even for an Asian like me. The prose, plot, thethe characters, the sequence of the events, the thoughts that run in Tony Webster\u2019s mind, big revelation in the end\u2026 They are all part of the big beautiful ensemble that delivers an exceptionally nice written novella. Ah oh, the theme. It is something that I can truly relate to: a middle-age retired man who tried to live a peaceful ordinary British life. With a grown-up daughter and an ex-wife who he still maintains as a friend, he now lives alone with only the memoirs of how he thought his life went through as a young man. I think that this looking back to the what-ifs is one of the favorite pastimes of middle-age people during their spare quite time. And I am beginning to imbibe this hobby as I am approaching retirement ha ha. You will pick this book if: 1. You make sure that you read all the Man Booker winning books; 2. You are a fan of <---A>Julian Barnes</---A>; or 3. You believe in my rating and you like this review. You will like this book if: 1. You pretend to like or actually like less populist contemporary books; 2. You like all works of Julian Barnes and you hate to have an exception; and 3. You are an old or middle-age man and you are fond of thinking of your what-ifs. Undoubtedly, one of the best books I\u2019ve read this year. May the Good Lord bless you with more years so you can write more beautiful novels, Mr. Barnes. ...more Some of my closest GR friends may have noticed that I\u2019ve been less active around here lately. Unfortunately, there\u2019s a reason for that. It\u2019s nothing dire, but it\u2019s still sad for me to have to say. As it turns out, I\u2019m going to have to hang up my spurs, albeit for reasons that have nothing to do with my friends here, and not even much to do with me. It has to do with my niece\u2019s husband who until recently had been a web application developer at Goodreads. The past perfect tense applies because, wh Some of my closest GR friends may have noticed that I\u2019ve been less active around here lately. Unfortunately, there\u2019s a reason for that. It\u2019s nothing dire, but it\u2019s still sad for me to have to say. As it turns out, I\u2019m going to have to hang up my spurs, albeit for reasons that have nothing to do with my friends here, and not even much to do with me. It has to do with my niece\u2019s husband who until recently had been a web application developer at Goodreads. The past perfect tense applies because, while it\u2019s all well and good to speculate on your own machine and on your own time about what anatomically improbable position Jeff Bezos\u2019s head may be in, it\u2019s evidently not OK on company machines and on company time. To make matters worse, this was a job I\u2019d encouraged him to pursue. I\u2019d rather not go into the details (the policies and the politics), but you\u2019ll understand that as a matter of principle I need to bid you all a fond farewell. I\u2019ve taken a few weeks to consider my swan song \u2013 my final review on this site. The wordplayful part of me was tempted to read the first volume of Proust\u2019s classic just so I could use the name Swann, but that would run a terrible risk. Too many of you have read and fully absorbed the Remembrance series and would no doubt think of me in the end as the poseur that I am were I to feign any insight. Then I looked at a few of the titles I\u2019d read but not yet reviewed. One of them, Disgrace , by J. M. Coetzee, had potential given the situation that brought this about, but like I said, it\u2019s best not to talk about that. A Ship of Fools is out for the same reason. Then one jumped out at me \u2013 the much-discussed Booker Prize winner of 2011 by Julian Barnes, <+++>The Sense of an Ending</+++> . The title certainly fits. While the story may not be fresh in my mind (it\u2019s been three years since I read it), I do recall a heated internal debate concerning the main character, Tony. Did he ring true? Could I imagine myself in his shoes? The book actually fits for another reason, too. It\u2019s all about memories, faulty and biased though they may be. I\u2019m sure in a few years\u2019 time I\u2019ll look back on my GR experience and remember writing thousands of reviews, making millions of comments, and stockpiling near infinite good will from it all. As a glib student, oblivious to his own clich\u00e9d thinking, Tony once said that \u201chistory is the lies of the winners.\u201d A more nuanced discussion followed, including a quotable line from their brightest, most philosophical friend Adrian: \u201cHistory is that certainty produced at the point where the imperfections of memory meet the inadequacies of documentation.\" Later, the classroom discussion led to a related point: \"That\u2019s one of the central problems of history, isn\u2019t it, sir? The question of subjective versus objective interpretation, the fact that we need to know the history of the historian in order to understand the version that is being put in front of us.\" Barnes was clever, I thought, to apply this theme to Tony\u2019s more mature self-analysis. As a retiree in his sixties, once married, now divorced, father of a daughter he considers close (contrary to most evidence), and one who has led a rather quotidian life, Tony reflects on several key junctures from his youth. It\u2019s clear he\u2019s an unreliable narrator of his own story, but readily cops to it, and to his credit, is disturbed by it. \"What you end up remembering isn\u2019t always the same as what you have witnessed.\" I don\u2019t consider it a spoiler to say that one of those memories concerned a girlfriend from his university days, Veronica, who dumped him and ended up with the aforementioned Adrian. Tragedy struck soon after that, and the reason Tony is so keen to revisit those memories is that Veronica\u2019s mother bequeathed him Adrian\u2019s diary. But Veronica was the one in possession of it, and was very reluctant to give it up. That\u2019s all I\u2019ll mention of the conflict, but as you may well have guessed, there\u2019s plenty more beneath the surface. When I first considered this book for my final review, it hadn\u2019t occurred to me that there\u2019d be so many ways to tie it to my own reflections. Please indulge me one last time as I take even more quotes from this book and relate them to my years on Goodreads. The retired and resigned version of Tony near the end of the book had this to say: \"\u2026 as the witnesses to your life diminish, there is less corroboration, and therefore less certainty, as to what you are or have been. Even if you have assiduously kept records\u2014 in words, sound, pictures\u2014 you may find that you have attended to the wrong kind of record-keeping.\" When he mentioned those assiduously kept records, especially the pictures, I thought of Facebook. The right kind of record-keeping, to me, would be the thoughts and reactions on Goodreads. Those reflect something meaningful, and say more about what makes you you. Even so, as the memories of those who participated with you fade, so does your presence. At least I\u2019m keeping my account active so that I don\u2019t disappear altogether. Getting back to the topic of unreliability, older Tony said, \u201c\u2026 perhaps it\u2019s that same paradox again: the history that happens underneath our noses ought to be the clearest, and yet it\u2019s the most deliquescent.\u201d Like I said, it was a few years ago that I read this, so my own reliability should be questioned. I guess that means anything I say beyond this point is meta-unreliable. Be that as it may, I think it\u2019s true that subjectivity, the lives we make for ourselves that read more like literature, and even outright lies often make our accounts more interesting. As one last indulgence, I swear, I\u2019m linking past reviews that I feel speak to that last statement rather well. From 2015 From 2014 From 2013 From 2008 I had considered giving this book either five stars or one since those are the reviews that often contain the most passionate arguments and attract the most curious readers. But that isn\u2019t my true sentiment. (Let\u2019s assume that the truth is at least slightly important to me). This one is a solid 3.5 rounded to 4. Tony was a little frustrating at times for his unreliable Tony-centric views, but I did like the theme. Besides, that Barnes guy writes really well. Before I sign off, I want to extend a big THANK YOU to you all for making these years on Goodreads so rewarding. I\u2019ve enjoyed the countless insights contained in your reviews, the entertainment value, the recommendations, the overly generous comments, and the nonstop thinking and fun. I can only hope that our collective memories never fool us into thinking that our time together has been anything but great. ...more Definitely has a plot, but a pathetic one. Thin characters, cliched ideas. I feel annoyed by having read this book. OK, there was one good quote: \u201cSometimes I think the purpose of life is to reconcile us to its eventual loss by wearing us down, by proving, however long it takes, that life isn't all it's cracked up to be.\u201d But ultimately, the plot is a gimmick! I don't understand how this won the Booker Prize. What the heck did Tony ever do to anyone except send a crappy letter to an ex-girlfrien Definitely has a plot, but a pathetic one. Thin characters, cliched ideas. I feel annoyed by having read this book. OK, there was one good quote: \u201cSometimes I think the purpose of life is to reconcile us to its eventual loss by wearing us down, by proving, however long it takes, that life isn't all it's cracked up to be.\u201d But ultimately, the plot is a gimmick! I don't understand how this won the Booker Prize. What the heck did Tony ever do to anyone except send a crappy letter to an ex-girlfriend who was now going out with one of his best friends? Who HASN'T done that? And why the money from \"The Mother?\" Doesn't make any sense. Nor does younger Adrian's fear of Tony when he mentions being friends with \"Mary.\" And why the heck didn't \"The Mother\" leave her money to her son who needed the money, rather than sending him off to live in some group home once she died? I've been reading too many books lately. I need to start watching more television. ...more I think my years as a philosophy student were actually detrimental to my enjoyment of this short novel about life and memory. The stuff that has left other people reeling in amazement reminded me of little more than just another essay on the mind and the way we think, the way we interpret events and the way our memories can let us down. Mr Barnes is clearly a clever man and his writing is a touch complex but always charming. However, is this really that original anymore? I don't think so. I can I think my years as a philosophy student were actually detrimental to my enjoyment of this short novel about life and memory. The stuff that has left other people reeling in amazement reminded me of little more than just another essay on the mind and the way we think, the way we interpret events and the way our memories can let us down. Mr Barnes is clearly a clever man and his writing is a touch complex but always charming. However, is this really that original anymore? I don't think so. I can point you towards many - even young adult - books with equally unreliable narrators that are much more engaging, gripping and altogether more rewarding - even if they do lack the complexity of the mind-delving going on in <+++>The Sense of an Ending</+++> . And, though Barnes thoroughly explores the mind of Tony Webster, I found him to be a painfully bland and unexciting protagonist that no amount of philosophical thought could save. This is a book that will suit people who like to think about everything. It is more or less the story of a very average man who pulls apart and analyses his memory of school, first love, first sexual encounters, his marriage... everything about his life. I thought I was the kind of person who likes to question things in an unbelievably anal way. For example, the other night I had the most pointless and stupid discussion with my dad about knowledge, where he said that he knew there were blind people in Spain (don't ask, just don't ask), and I said he couldn't possibly know that for certain unless he'd gone to Spain and met a blind person. He said he could. Then I said he couldn't. As you can tell, it was a very productive evening. But my point is that I enjoy philosophy. Tony Webster, however, philosophises about his whole life, a life that just isn't interesting enough for me to care about the \"reasons\" behind its events. I like, in theory, the idea that everything isn't always as simple as it seems, that things run deeper, that people have hidden and questionable motivations for the things they do and say, and that memory is not the truth but the story we tell ourselves. The idea of this book, I like. And some people love the simplistic side of it, the analysis of real and everyday life, rather than using philosophy to look at murder or something equally dramatic. But I don't believe that Tony's story was exciting enough to want to question. I actually don't care why Adrian did what he did, or why Veronica's mother behaved in a certain way. Perhaps my biggest problem with this book is that I don't care about Tony. Why would I want to hurt my brain straining to think about something that doesn't interest me? Some people obviously saw something much deeper in this, perhaps a message about society as a whole that says something important about our current world... perhaps not. I personally saw it as a failed attempt to turn the mediocre into something poetic. But it was too nicely written to be one star. ...more Tony Webster is a shallow douchebag. First of all, let\u2019s get something straight. I don\u2019t believe people should be judged too harshly for behavior they exhibited in adolescence. That\u2019s not to say that people are not responsible for actions they committed in their youth; it just means that their actions as teenagers do not necessarily reflect the kind of people they will become as adults. So my problem with Tony Webster isn\u2019t that he was an asshole in high school. In fact, I\u2019d probably be a bit hyp Tony Webster is a shallow douchebag. First of all, let\u2019s get something straight. I don\u2019t believe people should be judged too harshly for behavior they exhibited in adolescence. That\u2019s not to say that people are not responsible for actions they committed in their youth; it just means that their actions as teenagers do not necessarily reflect the kind of people they will become as adults. So my problem with Tony Webster isn\u2019t that he was an asshole in high school. In fact, I\u2019d probably be a bit hypocritical to judge him in that context because I might have been a asshole myself at that age. Maybe. But I can assure you I am not an asshole now and if I\u2019m to be judged on the kind of person I am, I\u2019d like for that judgment to consider me only in my current adult state, please. No, the problem with Tony Webster has nothing to do with his high school self\u2014it\u2019s the fact that over the course of forty years, he has not changed one single bit . As Tony divulges the circumstances surrounding a pivotal juncture in his youth, he would have you believe that his best friend was a disloyal SOB, his girlfriend a Cutthroat Bitch , and he perfectly justified in telling them both to fuck off. And perhaps he was. Again, that is not the problem I have with Tony Webster. Even that he holds on so tightly to warped memories as reasons for his past behavior (which are really justifications) is something I do not hold against him\u2014we all do that to a certain extent. It\u2019s called self-preservation. But where I start having issues with Tony is where he begins to dwell on these events and obsess over these people he hasn\u2019t seen in decades in a way that is not normal or healthy. If his reasons were sincere, if he actually felt like he needed to atone for something, then I might understand. But that is not what he\u2019s doing. No, he wants to ingratiate himself into these people\u2019s lives, forty years later, just so they can be left with a positive impression of him! See, Tony might think he has you convinced he\u2019s grown and matured into a considerate human person, but the only one he\u2019s convinced is himself, because Tony is in fact the same self-serving bastard he was when he was fifteen. It does make you reconsider his life details in a new light, though: his failed marriage, the distant relationship he has with his daughter, his pathetic lack of friends. I mean it\u2019s one thing to be an unreliable narrator, but here we have one who\u2019s delusional, too. History is not just the lies of the victors; it is also the self-delusions of the defeated. The final straw for me was when he (view spoiler) [writes Veronica a \u201cyo, my bad but call me if you need me\u201d email. Yes, email . Because he\u2019s a class guy now, right? And he considers this an appropriate form of closure? Seriously, Tony, go fuck yourself (hide spoiler) ] . This book does present an interesting supposition, though\u2014that past events are easier to understand from the historical perspective, the fact that one can see an event in its entirety, more objectively, and from various angles with the passage of time, which allows for a more accurate account of that event. In other words, it\u2019s hard to maintain a clear perspective on something while in the thick of things. Although the narrator uses this to justify his own shallow behavior, I thought it was a pretty enlightening concept nonetheless. ...more This book got under my skin. Not in the negative way, like what Tony, the narrator, may be doing, or trying to do, to Veronica, who 40 years ago was his first serious girlfriend, but in the way he describes how his ex-wife would dress a chicken -- slipping butter and herbs under the skin, with a delicate hand, never breaking the outer layer. I was hooked from the first page and even when I wasn't reading it, I was thinking about it, even in my sleep, or, more likely, semi-sleep. I was pulled int This book got under my skin. Not in the negative way, like what Tony, the narrator, may be doing, or trying to do, to Veronica, who 40 years ago was his first serious girlfriend, but in the way he describes how his ex-wife would dress a chicken -- slipping butter and herbs under the skin, with a delicate hand, never breaking the outer layer. I was hooked from the first page and even when I wasn't reading it, I was thinking about it, even in my sleep, or, more likely, semi-sleep. I was pulled into the dream of someone else's life, like the best novels do to the reader, and I stayed there. Though the book at first reminded me greatly of Ford Madox Ford's The Good Soldier (my guess is that was intentional), somewhere after the middle, it stopped feeling like it altogether and became its own entity. At this point it also started to drag a tiny bit (so maybe my rating is really 4 and 3/4 stars ), but that time was brief. While I didn't completely see the ending that arrived, I did have a clue, as I was reading very carefully, with a lot of attention, as if it were \"The Good Soldier.\" (That's not to say that plot is essential to this story, because it's not at all, except in the ways the narrator has to adjust his thinking.) Still, there were surprises, as there is in all great fiction. ...more Julian Barnes' The Sense of an Ending has a lot packed in the short 150 or so pages. Memory and history, responsibility and blame, deceit, misunderstandings, aging, guilt, remorse - and, of course, a safely passive coasting on the smooth sailing surface of life, occasionally interrupted by the tidal waves of unexpected upheavals and disturbances, just like Severn Bore , seen once by Tony Webster and Veronica. \"We live with such easy assumptions, don\u2019t we? For instance, that memory equals events p Julian Barnes' The Sense of an Ending has a lot packed in the short 150 or so pages. Memory and history, responsibility and blame, deceit, misunderstandings, aging, guilt, remorse - and, of course, a safely passive coasting on the smooth sailing surface of life, occasionally interrupted by the tidal waves of unexpected upheavals and disturbances, just like Severn Bore , seen once by Tony Webster and Veronica. \"We live with such easy assumptions, don\u2019t we? For instance, that memory equals events plus time. But it\u2019s all much odder than this. Who was it said that memory is what we thought we\u2019d forgotten? And it ought to be obvious to us that time doesn\u2019t act as a fixative, rather as a solvent. But it\u2019s not convenient \u2014 it\u2019s not useful \u2014 to believe this; it doesn\u2019t help us get on with our lives; so we ignore it.\" It is the story of fickleness and subjectivity of memory that creates the unreliable histories we tell ourselves ; the dissonance between what happened and what stories we choose to tell ourselves - because such unconscious lies are often what we just happen to need to feel alright about ourselves. And so we construct our own memories and write our life stories the way it suits us. \"How often do we tell our own life story? How often do we adjust, embellish, make sly cuts? And the longer life goes on, the fewer are those around to challenge our account, to remind us that our life is not our life, merely the story we have told about our life. Told to others, but \u2014 mainly \u2014 to ourselves.\" It's the story that touches on allotting responsibility and blame - be it for the Great War or a breakup or a divorce or a suicide - and learn that the answers may not always be there. We can come up with a catchy and cheeky answers ('History is the lies of the winners', pretentiously and predictably states teenage Tony Webster with all the world-weariness of a sixteen-year-old) - but ultimately, the answers are never clear-cut, and everything is in the grey zone, and the realization is that of a sixty-year-old Tony: \"History isn\u2019t the lies of the victors, as I once glibly assured Old Joe Hunt; I know that now. It\u2019s more the memories of the survivors, most of whom are neither victorious nor defeated.\" It's a melancholic reflection of the reality of aging and the little differences between 'settling for it' and 'accepting reality'. And, what's pathetically and sadly true, we fail to really grow and change at the end of our life stories - after all, Life is not really Literature . Yeah, it's not a book to read when you're feeling a bit down on yourself. Because at the end \"what you end up remembering isn\u2019t always the same as what you have witnessed.\" \"That\u2019s one of the central problems of history, isn\u2019t it, sir? The question of subjective versus objective interpretation, the fact that we need to know the history of the historian in order to understand the version that is being put in front of us.\" With this introduction, we take a dive into the mind of Tony Webster - a self-centered average guy who, like the rest of us, uses the subjectivity of memory to be the hero in his story, to be who he needs himself to be, to unconsciously tinker with the events until they seem just right. 'Yes, I remember exactly what happened!' is not that reliable, and Tony comes to learn that. Whether he actually takes something important from this experience - well, that's debatable \"It strikes me that this may be one of the differences between youth and age: when we are young, we invent different futures for ourselves; when we are old, we invent different pasts for others.\" We meet Tony at sixteen, through the recollection of his almost five decades older self. The older Tony constantly interrupts his own narration to remind us of the subjectivity of his memory, setting himself up as the ultimate unreliable narrator. This story resembles a coming-of-age book at the beginning (with all those pseudo- and not-so-pseudo-intellectual teenagers in the British prep school in the 1960s waxing on and on about philosophical matters with the smugness inherent to the adolescence) - but it turns out to be anything but. \"Discovering, for example, that as the witnesses to your life diminish, there is less corroboration, and therefore less certainty, as to what you are or have been. Even if you have assiduously kept records\u2014 in words, sound, pictures\u2014 you may find that you have attended to the wrong kind of record-keeping.\" Tony Webster is pathetic, self-centered and self-righteous. His life did not turn out the way he thought it'd be ( \"This was another of our fears: that Life wouldn\u2019t turn out to be like Literature.\" )- and he has been coasting through it, just an average guy leading an average life, far from the inspirations he may have had when back in his teens he was friends with a bright young philosopher (yes, a bit full of himself - but who isn't at that age?) Adrian Finn , who produces such pompous little gems as this one: \"History is that certainty produced at the point where the imperfections of memory meet the inadequacies of documentation.\" And then, a few years later, Tony's university girlfriend Veronica Ford (the one he views through the prism of his memories as a supreme bitch) dumped him and dated Adrian, and then Adrian committed suicide, and then there were four unexciting mediocre decades, and now the above ex-girlfriend's mother left Adrian's diary to Tony - but the ex-girlfriend is not willing to part with what Tony comes to view as his rightful legacy. And along the path to reclaim that diary Tony embarks on a quest to turn remorse into guilt and guilt into forgiveness - in the most self-centered way possible. Along the way he also toys with shouldering responsibility for what happened in the lives of Veronica and Adrian - but, as I see it, this over-estimation of his own importance is yet another one of his memory delusions and instead he may be on the sidelines of this story, regardless of what his unreliable memory tells him his life story should be. \"Perhaps I just feel safer with the history that\u2019s been more or less agreed upon. Or perhaps it\u2019s that same paradox again: the history that happens underneath our noses ought to be the clearest, and yet it\u2019s the most deliquescent. We live in time, it bounds us and defines us, and time is supposed to measure history, isn\u2019t it? But if we can\u2019t understand time, can\u2019t grasp its mysteries of pace and progress, what chance do we have with history\u2014 even our own small, personal, largely undocumented piece of it?\" But maybe, just maybe, the aging Tony Webster will learn something from the trip to the past he takes on his quest to recover Adrian's journal. But ultimately it's not about Tony at all; Tony is just a slate on which to project the final thoughts, the final lines of this novel that harbor a bit of hope for the majority of us, floaters on the safe waters of life, who may or may not meet their Severn Bore. \"There is accumulation. There is responsibility. And beyond these, there is unrest. There is great unrest.\" This story is written with enough irony and melancholy to sustain a book of a much larger size. It's insanely quotable, to the point where you begin to suspect that certain lines were thrown in by the author with expectations of their future quotability factor. The language is smart and exquisite, sometimes a bit sardonic, sometimes a bit pedantic, and sometimes painfully genuine. Love this book or hate it - but you cannot deny that the writing is quite excellent. ....... .... And to close off, I want to go back to the image of the Severn Bore, the natural phenomenon that unsettled Tony back in his youth and still may be the disturbance that we all need from time to time. Great unrest, so to speak. \"I don't think I can properly convey the effect that moment had on me. It wasn't like a tornado or an earthquake (not that I'd witnessed either) \u2013 nature being violent and destructive, putting us in our place. It was more unsettling because it looked and felt quietly wrong, as if some small lever of the universe had been pressed, and here, just for these minutes, nature was reversed, and time with it.\" ...more Is it because the main protagonist and I are of an age that I enjoyed his ruminations on memory and time so much? Yes, that is part of it, but Julian Barnes has a wonderful turn of phrase and he is a keen observer who knows how to articulate those observations. I loved the elasticity of time and the relationship of memory to time: *how time slows down or speeds up *how time binds us and yet, as the narrator Tony Webster argues, time is a solvent rather than a fixative *how time affects memory so t Is it because the main protagonist and I are of an age that I enjoyed his ruminations on memory and time so much? Yes, that is part of it, but Julian Barnes has a wonderful turn of phrase and he is a keen observer who knows how to articulate those observations. I loved the elasticity of time and the relationship of memory to time: *how time slows down or speeds up *how time binds us and yet, as the narrator Tony Webster argues, time is a solvent rather than a fixative *how time affects memory so that what we now remember happened may not be an accurate account of an event *how we embellish what we remember *how for Tony there is an objective time and a subjective time *how Tony would like to place time in reverse like a river running upstream The final paragraph of the novel takes the story right back to the beginning and completes the circle. ### Some favourite quotes: \"\u2018I don\u2019t know, sir.\u2019 'What don\u2019t you know?\u2019 'Well, in one sense, I can\u2019t know what it is that I don\u2019t know. That\u2019s philosophically self-evident.\u2019\" \"\u2018History is a raw onion sandwich, sir.\u2019 'For what reason?\u2019 'It just repeats, sir. It burps. We\u2019ve seen it again and again this year. Same old story, same old oscillation between tyranny and rebellion, war and peace, prosperity and impoverishment.\u2019\" \"And then life took over, and time speeded up.\" \"It was more unsettling because it looked and felt quietly wrong, as if some small lever of the universe had been pressed, and here, just for these minutes, nature was reversed, and time with it.\" \"But you find yourself repeating, \u2018They grow up so quickly, don\u2019t they?\u2019 when all you really mean is: time goes faster for me nowadays.\" \"History isn\u2019t the lies of the victors, as I once glibly assured Old Joe Hunt; I know that now. It\u2019s more the memories of the survivors, most of whom are neither victorious nor defeated.\" \"We live in time, it bounds us and defines us, and time is supposed to measure history, isn\u2019t it? But if we can\u2019t understand time, can\u2019t grasp its mysteries of pace and progress, what chance do we have with history \u2013 even our own small, personal, largely undocumented piece of it?\" \"Who was it said that memory is what we thought we\u2019d forgotten? And it ought to be obvious to us that time doesn\u2019t act as a fixative, rather as a solvent.\" \"How often do we tell our own life story? How often do we adjust, embellish, make sly cuts? And the longer life goes on, the fewer are those around to challenge our account, to remind us that our life is not our life, merely the story we have told about our life. Told to others, but \u2013 mainly \u2013 to ourselves.\" \"My younger self had come back to shock my older self with what that self had been, or was, or was sometimes capable of being.\" \"Because just as all political and historical change sooner or later disappoints, so does adulthood. So does life. Sometimes I think the purpose of life is to reconcile us to its eventual loss by wearing us down, by proving, however long it takes, that life isn\u2019t all it\u2019s cracked up to be.\" \"The time-deniers say: forty\u2019s nothing, at fifty you\u2019re in your prime, sixty\u2019s the new forty, and so on. I know this much: that there is objective time, but also subjective time, the kind you wear on the inside of your wrist, next to where the pulse lies. And this personal time, which is the true time, is measured in your relationship to memory. So when this strange thing happened \u2013 when these new memories suddenly came upon me \u2013 it was as if, for that moment, time had been placed in reverse. As if, for that moment, the river ran upstream.\" ...more Again, I must stress that this is my reading now of what happened then. Or rather, my memory now of my reading then of what was happening at the time. From the first page, I was carried away by Julian Barnes\u2019s The Sense of an Ending and its wonderful story. For such a short novel it seems to waste no words, and only speeds between breaths to tell us about the capriciousness of our memories. I think it cannot be truer that memory is a fickle friend. More than a story, this was a lyrical lesson w Again, I must stress that this is my reading now of what happened then. Or rather, my memory now of my reading then of what was happening at the time. From the first page, I was carried away by Julian Barnes\u2019s The Sense of an Ending and its wonderful story. For such a short novel it seems to waste no words, and only speeds between breaths to tell us about the capriciousness of our memories. I think it cannot be truer that memory is a fickle friend. More than a story, this was a lyrical lesson with a very precise rhythm of life and time. What time? The forgotten, that that has long passed and that we not always know how to remember. Yes, memory often enough plays tricks on us, but we go on living. We live in time -- it holds us and moulds us -- but I've never felt I understood it very well. And I\u2019m not referring to theories about how it bends and doubles back, or may exist elsewhere in parallel versions. No, I mean ordinary, everyday time, which clocks and watches assure us passes regularly: tick-tock, click-clock. Is there anything more plausible than a second hand? And yet it takes only the smallest pleasure or pain to teach us time's malleability. Some emotions speed it up, others slow it down occasionally, it seems to go missing \u2013 until the eventual point when it really does go missing, never to return. If you are old enough to wonder why you forgot those long ago times, you will enjoy this book. No, I do not mean old in years, but in memories. \u2018It strikes me that this may be one of the differences between youth and age: when we are young, we invent different futures for ourselves; when we are old, we invent different pasts for others.\u2019 Did you ever wonder about your first remembrances or the memory of your first love? I do it all the time, and how we try or not to remember and how we choose to recollect those long past times. So we live in a make believe scenery where we create unreliable histories that when we less expect come back to surprise us. \"How often do we tell our own life story? How often do we adjust, embellish, make sly cuts? And the longer life goes on, the fewer are those around to challenge our account, to remind us that our life is not our life, merely the story we have told about our life. Told to others, but - mainly - to ourselves.\" While I ran through the pages of The Sense of an Ending , I could recognize myself often in Tony\u2019s feelings and wonders. Not that our lives have that much in common, besides a failed marriage. I could sympathize with him when he relived his life through older eyes that imagined saw more but often forgot or mislead him. \u2018Perhaps I just feel safer with the history that's been more or less agreed upon. Or perhaps it's that same paradox again: the history that happens underneath our noses ought to be the clearest, and yet it's the most deliquescent.\u2019 But his losses I felt as my own, I think when I read his recollections I imagined my own instead. Or they were simply mixed up in Barnes\u2019s words. Your winnings accumulate. But do your losses? Not at the racetrack - there, you just lose your original stake. But in life? Perhaps here different rules apply. You bet a relationship, it fails; you go on to the next relationship, it fails too: and maybe what you lose is not two simple minus sums... Life isn't just addition and subtraction. There's also accumulation, the multiplication, of loss, of failure. Thus, do we really build our own memories and write our life stories the way it better suits us? I wonder. Perhaps, or better yet, probably, we do as a protection from useless sufferings. But do you ever ponder what we would imagine if we were in fact in control of our past? Certainly not disillusionment or a lack of sense regarding what we aimed to accomplish. We have to believe our lives were worth living, so we may yes lie to ourselves. What else can a human being do? Who has it said that memory is what we thought we'd forgotten? And it ought to be obvious to us that time doesn't act as a fixative, rather as a solvent. But it's not convenient - it's not useful - to believe this; it doesn't help us get on with our lives; so we ignore it. Tony Webster\u2019s memory might come through as a melancholic reflection on the reality of aging, but can aging be felt differently? I wonder as I feel myself getting older every day and as I feel the elapse of time more accurately. Is Barnes being too melodramatic? It depends on your memories and how you remember then, I answer myself. And I know that there are times when it\u2019s best not to go back into the past, not try to recollect what went wrong or the missteps we took, but to reinvent what how we existed and live what life has still to offer us so as not to live in eternal gloom. I had been tempted, somehow, by the notion that we could excise most of our separate existences, could cut and splice the magnetic tape on which our lives are recorded, go back to that fork in the path and take the road less travelled, or rather not travelled at all. Instead, I had just left common sense behind. Old fool, I said to myself. And there's not fool like an old fool:... And, is it not pathetic and sad when we fail to grow up and change at the end of our life stories, after all, \u2018life is not really literature\u2019 . But if you pay attention, you can feel time pass by and make the best of it. I know this much: that there is objective time, but also subjective time, the kind you wear on the inside of your wrist, next to where the pulse lies. And this personal time, which is the true time, is measured in your relationship to memory. So when this strange thing happened - when these new memories suddenly came upon me - it was as if, for that moment, time had been placed in reverse. As if, for that moment, the river run upstream. What I realized as I closed the last page is that The Sense of an Ending is a book to be read in a sunny afternoon and not when you're feeling down. I am glad I have been feeling cheerful lately, because at the end what you end up reminiscing is not always what you wanted to remember or what you taught you witnessed. Highly recommended! ...more This is by Julian Barnes so we know it will focus on memory and its tricks. Some examples: \u201c\u2026but what you end up remembering isn\u2019t always the same as what you witnessed.\u201d And \u201cI need to return briefly to a few incidents that have grown into anecdotes, to some approximate memories which time has deformed into certainty.\u201d And \u201cagain, I must stress that this is my reading now of what happened then. Or rather, my memory now of my reading then of what was happening at the time.\u201d The book is a Booker This is by Julian Barnes so we know it will focus on memory and its tricks. Some examples: \u201c\u2026but what you end up remembering isn\u2019t always the same as what you witnessed.\u201d And \u201cI need to return briefly to a few incidents that have grown into anecdotes, to some approximate memories which time has deformed into certainty.\u201d And \u201cagain, I must stress that this is my reading now of what happened then. Or rather, my memory now of my reading then of what was happening at the time.\u201d The book is a Booker Prize winner, so we expect and we get great writing. \u201cIn those days, we imagined ourselves as being kept in some kind of holding pen, waiting to be released into our lives.\u201d There\u2019s not a lot of point in adding an extensive review to book with 12,000 already on GR although it\u2019s interesting to note that its rating, 3.7 is a bit on the low side. Barnes seems to be a writer that you like or you don\u2019t. The basic story is that we have a man of retirement age who is a doofus. He has a couple of adult children he\u2019s never shown much interest in, and an ex- that he meets with for an occasional lunch. The story goes back to his college days and early romances when he broke up with one girl who dumped him for another buddy in his group. He wrote the two of them a nasty, vicious letter and promptly forgot about it. That letter turns up 40 years later in a package from a lawyer and he is shocked to see it. He is incredulous that he could have written it (memory again) --- but there it is in black and white in his handwriting. His buddy died years ago so he now tries to contact his old flame and make amends. (He missed all the self-help books about \u201cnever explain\u2026\u201d) He meets with her and they email a bit. Everything is different from what he believes happened and I find the denouement a stretch; it\u2019s implausible that his ex-girlfriend would not reveal the surprise twist at the end but just say things like \u201cyou still don\u2019t get it do you?\u201d Well of course he can\u2019t get it because of the plot device. It\u2019s been said that over the course of a great novel that the main character has to experience change. However this guy seems to exemplify the maxim: Once an ass, always an ass. ...more Such was the big fat craptastic big-reveal groanworthy lurid pulpy Victorian melodramatic you-got-to-be-kidding ending-with-no-sense that the two stars this novel was hanging on to by its fingernails up to page 130 slipped out of its grasp and it ended up with the ignominious one star, but since that puts it in the same company as many much-loved novels it may well be worn as a Badge Of Honour \u2013 I envisage one of those peelable stickers on all future editions A P BRYANT ONE STAR NOVEL!! and Juli Such was the big fat craptastic big-reveal groanworthy lurid pulpy Victorian melodramatic you-got-to-be-kidding ending-with-no-sense that the two stars this novel was hanging on to by its fingernails up to page 130 slipped out of its grasp and it ended up with the ignominious one star, but since that puts it in the same company as many much-loved novels it may well be worn as a Badge Of Honour \u2013 I envisage one of those peelable stickers on all future editions A P BRYANT ONE STAR NOVEL!! and Julian Barnes can swank around with Zadie Smith, Richard Ford and Don DeLillo and read each other their own one star reviews. It\u2019s one thing to realise that as a person with a fiction addiction you must tread a lonely path because in Real Life as you may know not that many people are as hopelessly addicted as we here on Goodreads. But then it\u2019s another thing to have to admit that within that already small (but intense, intense) community of readers you are now part of a minority since the majority appear to be besotted with YA/adult romance/fantasy etc. So, mainstream literature is now a minority sport like lacrosse or curling, and should be rebranded. But then, even stranger, to find oneself as the minority of the minority of the minority\u2026. Which happens when the majority of the minority are all raving about a novel that turns out to be The Sense of an Ending. In Flaubert\u2019s Parrot by JB a guy moons around in France on his own and has thoughts about his life and about Flaubert and you gradually realise that he\u2019s suppressing some horrible thing he doesn\u2019t want to think about. The atmosphere in that novel is transfixing, it\u2019s maximum understated comedy horror. Top novel. This one, 150 pages of picking over an old friendship and a first romance the banal entanglements of which come to a vague watery light when the deceased mother of the ancient girlfriend (it was all 40 years ago) bequeaths to our boring narrator a diary. Like a bolt from the blue. This was a novel where all the detail of the guy\u2019s current mildly depressed defeated mouldering away English life were exactly and toe-curlingly right, and all the actual incidents in the plot (of which there are five, I think, maybe five and a half) are completely wrong, simply ridiculous \u2013 no one would do that. The girlfriend would not (redacted), the mother would totally not (redacted) and if the friend really did (redacted) then the narrator (redacted). This is why a novel can be both intelligent (he drops in a sprinkling of Readers Digest Improve Your Conversation by Quoting Philosophy snippets and he\u2019s forever going on about Time, what is Time, can we control Time or does Time control Us, can Time go backwards or sidewards, can Time flow up one nostril and down the Other?) and also stupid (people don\u2019t behave like this). This was a Booker prize winner but it was one of the Bad Bookers like Vernon God Little. There are Good Bookers, like Wolf Hall and The White Tiger. Read the good Bookers, avoid the Bad. Keep on the sunny side of life. ...more I had never really intended to read this book, and I certainly had no intention of owning it. I was browsing in a B&N sitting out a winter storm in Lincoln, Nebraska and ran across of stack of The Sense of an Ending with BOOKER PRIZE WINNER blazoned across the front of the book. I dug through the stack of third printings and there near the bottom was one book with BOOKER PRIZE NOMINEE on the cover. Well it is sort of cosmic for a collector such as I to find one first American edition in the I had never really intended to read this book, and I certainly had no intention of owning it. I was browsing in a B&N sitting out a winter storm in Lincoln, Nebraska and ran across of stack of The Sense of an Ending with BOOKER PRIZE WINNER blazoned across the front of the book. I dug through the stack of third printings and there near the bottom was one book with BOOKER PRIZE NOMINEE on the cover. Well it is sort of cosmic for a collector such as I to find one first American edition in the pile. Small chance of the book ever being a collectible, but it is almost impossible (mental hindrances) for me to buy a later printing of a book. Being 20% off helped me throw it on my pile for the check out counter. Well about 20 pages in I was shaking my head and muttering to myself about the $20 bill I lit on fire to buy this book. What Barnes wrote about English Prep school was stale, as stale as a saltine cracker I found in the glove box of my pickup. (The mystery is I don't remember ever eating saltines in my pickup.) Luckily Barnes moved on to more interesting material. Tony Webster is a guy of average intelligence who was arguably the least interesting member of a group of rather bright friends. In particular, one friend, Adrian was head and shoulders above the rest with a true philosopher's mind that earned him a spot at Cambridge. Tom was always trying to understand Adrian and always felt as if he was not seeing the picture the same way as his friend. \"Adrian had a better mind and a more rigorous temperament than me: he thought logically, and then acted on the conclusion of logical thought. Whereas most of us, I suspect, do the opposite: we make an instinctive decision, then build up an infrastructure of reasoning to justify it. And call the result common sense.\" At prep school Adrian was the star impressing his teachers with lines like this. \"History is that certainty produced at the point where the imperfections of memory meet the inadequacies of documentation.\" No big surprise that Tony spends the rest of his life seeking Adrian's approval. Their relationship becomes rocky when Tony's ex-girlfriend, Veronica, starts dating Adrian. Veronica's favorite line to Tony is \"you didn't get it then, you don't get it now and you will never get it\". She is one of those people that think everyone is supposed to understand what is in her head and refuses to give even the most minuscule bit of information to help Tony know what is motivating her decisions. Even though she is incessantly disrespectful to Tony he sees her as more intelligent, more hip than he is, and is always attempting to better himself in her eyes. Reading a fragment of Adrian's diary 40 years after he killed himself, Tony, now in his sixties still finds himself in need of validation. \"Had my life increased, or merely added to itself? This was the question that Adrian's fragment set off in me. There had been addition--and subtraction--in my life, but how much was multiplication? and this gave me a sense of unease, of unrest.\" I won't discuss the hook of the story, the SHAZAM moment where everything becomes clear, but I must say my estimation of the book changed as the story moved forward. At only 163 pages I felt that the early pages spent at the prep school could have been skipped and made the story closer to flawless. A few flash backs would have sufficed to give the reader the background necessary to follow the plot. I will close with one more bit of introspection from Tony. \"Someone once said that his favorite times in history were when things were collapsing, because that meant something new was being born. Does this make any sense if we apply it to our individual lives? To die when something new is being born--even if that something new is our very own self? Because just as all political and historical change sooner or later disappoints, so does adulthood. So does life. Sometimes I think the purpose of life is to reconcile us to its eventual loss by wearing us down, by proving, however long it takes, that life isn't all it's cracked up to be.\" ...more Has it ever occurred to you that while you are complacently sitting, basking in the self acquired glory of wisdom, you chance upon something, like an incident, a person or a written word, which forces you to revisit your understanding and knowledge of the life as you know it? And then you gasp with a sudden disbelief at the ignorance which might have silently crept in and stayed along while you felt contented with your version of perceptions? I felt the same while reading this book. To say that Has it ever occurred to you that while you are complacently sitting, basking in the self acquired glory of wisdom, you chance upon something, like an incident, a person or a written word, which forces you to revisit your understanding and knowledge of the life as you know it? And then you gasp with a sudden disbelief at the ignorance which might have silently crept in and stayed along while you felt contented with your version of perceptions? I felt the same while reading this book. To say that I liked what I read would be an understatement. What I experienced was a sense of delight, in not just understanding through the memory of the narrator, but in understanding that as human beings, we, sometimes fabricate part of our memory to make up for a more suitable version of things for ourselves. And that while we do understand this, it is possible to be more cautious while recalling such memories and making a judgment. ...more This is an exploration of memory, exquisitely written as the thoughts of an old man, looking back on his life - good enough to merit 5*, despite the somewhat contrived ending (ironic, given the title). IMAGERY It opens with six images (an unexpected word in several of them makes them more vivid), each of which form part of the story: \u201cI remember, in no particular order: - a shiny inner wrist; - steam rising from a wet sink as a frying pan is laughingly tossed into it; - gouts of sperm circling a plugh This is an exploration of memory, exquisitely written as the thoughts of an old man, looking back on his life - good enough to merit 5*, despite the somewhat contrived ending (ironic, given the title). IMAGERY It opens with six images (an unexpected word in several of them makes them more vivid), each of which form part of the story: \u201cI remember, in no particular order: - a shiny inner wrist; - steam rising from a wet sink as a frying pan is laughingly tossed into it; - gouts of sperm circling a plughole, before being sluiced down the full length of a tall house; - a river rushing nonsensically upstream, its wave and wash lit by half a dozen chasing torch beams; - another river, broad and grey, the direction of its flow disguised by a stiff wind exciting the surface; - bath water long gone cold behind a locked door.\u201d PLOT Tony and his three friends were somewhat pretentious teenagers, from moderately privileged backgrounds (\u201cone of those suburbs which has stopped concreting over nature at the very last minute, and ever since, smugly claimed rural status\u201d). They are on the cusp of going to university. As they go their separate ways, they stay in touch to greater or lesser extents, but events of their youth echo across the years, and as he approaches retirement, Tony tries to draw the threads together and make sense of his life. Very self-absorbed (and not especially likeable), but if anything, I think that makes the book more interesting. In particular, there are two rather unbalanced relationships that left their mark: with Adrian (who joined school later than the others) and his first proper girlfriend, Veronica. He suffers \u201cpre-guilt: the expectation that she was going to say something that would make me feel properly guilty\u201d. Despite this, and a couple of shocking incidents, Tony is not unhappy, though he is not entirely happy either. His reference to the \u201csmall pleasures and large dullnesses of home\u201d is apt. Although he was at university in the sixties, \u201cMost people didn\u2019t experience the sixties until the seventies\u201d, though he experienced a confusing mix of the two. Nostalgia doesn\u2019t help, \u201cthe powerful recollection of strong emotions \u2013 and regret that such feelings are no longer present in our lives\u201d. Can you reverse remorse to guilt and forgiveness? MEMORY, HISTORY, TRUTH The recurring theme is the accuracy, or inaccuracy, of memory, coupled with the effects of time. Tony is forever musing on memory, history and truth. Revelations prompt further re-evaluation and interpretation. Maybe none of this is true (some elements of the plot and the behaviour of key characters are implausible, or at least, not adequately explained), but does it matter anyway? Surely that is the point Barnes is making. Many books feature unreliable narrators but it's quite refreshing to read one where the narrator is pondering their own unreliability. Tony is honest about his dishonesty as a narrator (except that he constantly says his relationship with his daughter is closer than it seems from what he describes), and constantly ponders on it: * \u201cWhat you end up remembering isn\u2019t always the same as what you witnessed.\u201d * \u201cIf I can\u2019t be sure of the actual events any more, I can at least be true to the impression those facts left.\u201d * It gets harder with age: \u201cAs the witnesses to your life diminish, there is less corroboration, and therefore less certainty, as to what you are or have been\u201d, and \u201cmemory becomes a thing of shreds and patches\u201d. * \u201cWhen we are young we invent different futures for ourselves; when we are old, we invent different pasts for others.\u201d * \u201cThe history that happens underneath our noses ought to be the clearest, and yet it\u2019s the most deliquescent.\u201d * \u201cHistory is that certainty produce at the point where the imperfection of memory meets the inadequacy of documentation.\u201d * \u201cMental states can be inferred from actions\u2026 Whereas in the private life, I think the converse is true: that you can infer past actions from current mental states.\u201d Similarly, X \u201cthought logically, and then acted on the conclusion of logical thought. Whereas most of us\u2026 do the opposite: we make an instinctive decision, then build up an infrastructure of reasoning to justify it\u201d. * \u201cIt takes only the smallest pleasure or pain to teach us time\u2019s malleability.\u201d MEANING In the end, the meaning of life is \u201cto reconcile us to its eventual loss by wearing us down, by proving, however long it takes, that life isn\u2019t all it\u2019s cracked up to be\u201d! Some people dislike Tony so much that that it taints their enjoyment of the entire book, but to some extent Tony is everyman and we are all Tony, which leads me to wonder if the dislikers are TOO like Tony for their own comfort! Much as I enjoyed and thought I'd understood this, Petra nails the crux of its skill in the final paragraph of her short, but perfectly formed, review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... . RELATED BOOKS This is SO much better than another of his multi-decade life stories, dating from 25 years earlier, Staring at the Sun (review here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). Another short book in which a grumpy aging man reflects on his life makes an interesting contrast with this - though Yasmina Reza's \"Desolation\" ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ) doesn't come out of the comparison favourable (only 2*). ...more Maybe, like Tony, I just don't get it, but this was a whole lot of Man Booker-winning to-do about very little. Pretentious, upper middle-class schoolboys behave badly, and -- through too much ego and too little self-knowledge and empathy, too many book smarts and not enough life experience -- inflict cruelty on ex-girlfriends and others as they cavalierly grow out of their coddled adolescence into a ho-hum average life. It then comes back to haunt them - or one of them, anyway - in late middle-a Maybe, like Tony, I just don't get it, but this was a whole lot of Man Booker-winning to-do about very little. Pretentious, upper middle-class schoolboys behave badly, and -- through too much ego and too little self-knowledge and empathy, too many book smarts and not enough life experience -- inflict cruelty on ex-girlfriends and others as they cavalierly grow out of their coddled adolescence into a ho-hum average life. It then comes back to haunt them - or one of them, anyway - in late middle-age, and as memories are jogged and regrets bubble to the surface, insight is finally gained. Sort of. It's really a dull spark of understanding nested in about the same amount of egocentric self-pity that it started out disguised by. I guess it's a clever character study, but I didn't and don't like Tony. I think that *is* the point. I really just wanted to give him a smack upside the head and tell him to stop whining and get over himself, kind of like his ex-wife did. All life has tragedy - and some lives here have *true* tragedy, which Tony fails to recognize even as he seem to be recognizing it (so I guess that's pretty clever of Barnes, but sheesh ...). Tony's real insight seems to be the recognition that he's failed to live up to his own pompous and overblown expectations of greatness for himself. He's led an average life. And along the way, through his own obtuseness and arrogance, he's inflicted a not-inconsiderable degree of harm, which seems to be of less consequence to him in the grand scheme of things than the fact that he's lived a life of complacent mediocrity. But then, Barnes leaves us there, with this fellow sighing into his beer and chips. I feel myself asking - but what's next? What this guy does NEXT will tell the real story of his character. I feel ... short-changed; unfulfilled. Harumph. Subject: The last chapter Dear Tony: The cure for your loneliness and sense of ennui is to pull your head out of your ass and go out and do something of value with the time you have left. Turn that insight into action that will do someone some good (and I don't mean just leaving a sizeable tip at the pub, either). Love, Jen ...more Reviewed in January, 2012 One of the things I admire about Barnes is the pared down nature of his writing. Every word counts. The division of this novella into two parts also counts. The reader could start with Part Two and the book wouldn't be any less clear. In fact, possible answers to most of the questions raised at the end of the book can be found on rereading Part One. More enlightenment comes while rereading Part Two. (The following paragraph may contain spoilers) As to the possible answer Reviewed in January, 2012 One of the things I admire about Barnes is the pared down nature of his writing. Every word counts. The division of this novella into two parts also counts. The reader could start with Part Two and the book wouldn't be any less clear. In fact, possible answers to most of the questions raised at the end of the book can be found on rereading Part One. More enlightenment comes while rereading Part Two. (The following paragraph may contain spoilers) As to the possible answers to the questions raised in Part Two: the mathematical solution referred to on page 14, he, (Robson) being about to cause an increase of one in the human population, had decided it was his ethical duty to keep the planet's numbers constant may supply a reason for Adrian's later suicide in addition to his own stated belief that since we don't ask to be born, we ought at least to be allowed to choose when to die. Suicide, and Robson's suicide in particular, preoccupied Adrian from early in the book. His use of the details of Robson's death as an example of the unreliability of history sums up Barnes entire theme, i.e., the dependance of history on the imperfections of memory and the inadequacies of documentation, as well as the personal baggage of the historian. The reliability of Tony Webster's account, and of the entire story, are beset by these difficulties. Tony frequently acknowledges his imperfect memory, he possesses only a fragment of Adrian's diary, and Barnes ensures that we are well aware of Tony's personal baggage. So there can only be the sense of an ending, and great unrest in the mind of the reader because of the accumulation of responsibility. We are left with the unanswerable question: is Tony the equivalent of the Serbian gunman mentioned in the early pages? Is Tony the trigger for all the tragedy? ...more The Sense of an Ending is the type of British novel ALL OTHER AMERICAN NOVELS TREMBLE IN THE PRESENCE OF. It is blessed with an aura of flawless, impeccable English perfection; the prose is exquisitely clean & concise, GODLY by most-- especially my own-- standards. It is an uncommon, unpolluted work that should be embedded in psychology books everywhere: the gears of life are described in their rare light, in degrees that, you must agree, can only possibly come from another world, or another The Sense of an Ending is the type of British novel ALL OTHER AMERICAN NOVELS TREMBLE IN THE PRESENCE OF. It is blessed with an aura of flawless, impeccable English perfection; the prose is exquisitely clean & concise, GODLY by most-- especially my own-- standards. It is an uncommon, unpolluted work that should be embedded in psychology books everywhere: the gears of life are described in their rare light, in degrees that, you must agree, can only possibly come from another world, or another dimension. Barnes, like my other major European discovery of the year Michel Houellebecq, is a purveyor of human behavior, adding and utilizing British conventions of Modern English Literature in his own book. The occasion which hooks the reader, like in another perennial favorite by the sublime Kazuo Ishiguro's \"Never Let Me Go\" in which a little girl dances, a school teacher has a breakdown, is present in a similar, indeed also masterful scene, when a teacher actually tells his student he has the knowledge to teach the entire class. The reader won't let this one go from page 6. The knowledge, the expounding of it in our na\u00efve brains, is terrifyingly constant: it radiates from the book like an individual's life-force. The small details present in literature-- from Desdemona's handkerchief, to Aurora's spindle's needle, to, in this instance, a hateful childhood curse, a simple adolescent note (think, obviously \"Atonement\")-- those small and almost invisible details always seem to carry and immense heft, a terrible burden of the psychological kind. This conceit, this must, is also found in our gorgeous mini novel. \"Sense\" is at the apex of literary brilliance, my astute friends. & the gushing, for me, shall simply, without a doubt, not end here... ...more What a wonderful wonderful novel. No, not a novel, or a novella; it was a poem, with rhythm, repetition, and cadence, looping back on itself. Yes, it can only be called a poem - a poem about time, about forgotten time, long gone cold. Having laid off from new Booker winners after a traumatic experience with Adiga, I started on this book with a lot of trepidation. But I was drawn in from the first paragraph and the amazing childhood anecdotes seemed to be promising a night of unbroken reading! I What a wonderful wonderful novel. No, not a novel, or a novella; it was a poem, with rhythm, repetition, and cadence, looping back on itself. Yes, it can only be called a poem - a poem about time, about forgotten time, long gone cold. Having laid off from new Booker winners after a traumatic experience with Adiga, I started on this book with a lot of trepidation. But I was drawn in from the first paragraph and the amazing childhood anecdotes seemed to be promising a night of unbroken reading! I went through it loving every line and anguishing over how I could never write like this - A patchy memory of life laid out in scattered pieces, excruciating in what is left unsaid and what is perhaps falsely remembered. I finished the book in a day and promised this - 'Full review to follow.' I am thinking about this again today but maybe I'll fulfill this promise tomorrow? The book touched me on many personal levels and I want to do justice to it, maybe even read it once again before attempting an extensive review. ...more In the last sentence of the first paragraph of the new, Booker-shortlisted novella \u201cThe Sense of an Ending,\u201d the narrator states that \u201cwhat you end up remembering isn\u2019t always the same as what you have witnessed.\u201d Preceding it is a short list of what he remembers: \u201ca shiny inner wrist,\u201d \u201csteam rising from a wet sink,\u201d \u201cgouts of sperm circling a plughole,\u201d \u201ca river rushing nonsensically upstream,\u201d \u201canother river,\u201d and \u201cbathwater long gone cold behind a locked door.\u201d Following it is a hundred-plus In the last sentence of the first paragraph of the new, Booker-shortlisted novella \u201cThe Sense of an Ending,\u201d the narrator states that \u201cwhat you end up remembering isn\u2019t always the same as what you have witnessed.\u201d Preceding it is a short list of what he remembers: \u201ca shiny inner wrist,\u201d \u201csteam rising from a wet sink,\u201d \u201cgouts of sperm circling a plughole,\u201d \u201ca river rushing nonsensically upstream,\u201d \u201canother river,\u201d and \u201cbathwater long gone cold behind a locked door.\u201d Following it is a hundred-plus-page expansion of these remembrances, which, like any number of memories drawn from different points in time and space, are only vaguely, if at all, congruous. Coming from a self-confessed unreliable narrator, it serves as both an advance apology and a fair warning. The narrator is one Tony Webster. Comfortably retired and amicably divorced in his sixties, he otherwise seems like the flying arrow in one of Zeno\u2019s famous paradoxes of motion: no more capable of moving to where he is not than of moving to where he already is. In such a predicament his only possibility of motion is of the nature of an illusion, but it\u2019s motion nevertheless, and he\u2019s willing to take it. Troubled by the death of an erstwhile close friend and confronted by the imminence of his own, he looks back on his life and splices a great many recollections, resolving his instantaneous immobilities into a continuous movement. In a further development worthy of Borges, where he is not and where he is are one and the same, and that point\u2014that sense\u2014is the slight perception beautifully articulated in the book\u2019s title. It\u2019s what he\u2019s struggling to clamber toward even as it\u2019s already on the ground beneath his feet. Tony, in his endeavor to make sense of things past and present, ascends into a Prufrockian analysis of time and mortality, making \u201cThe Sense of an Ending,\u201d structurally, a memoir filled with confessions, digressions, and assertions. What more potent way of knowing, of remembering, than writing for and in spite of oneself? He begins in his youth, specifically on the fateful school day he and his two bosom buddies befriend Adrian Finn. Adrian proves to be a very intellectual person, not unlike his newfound friends, but his mind is of a particularly astute slant. A debate on whether one person is culpable for starting the First World War is brought to an end when he answers, \u201cThat\u2019s one of the central problems of history, isn\u2019t it, sir? The question of subjective versus objective interpretation, the fact that we need to know the history of the historian in order to understand the version that is being put in front of us.\u201d Then, upon learning that one of their schoolmates hanged himself after getting his girlfriend pregnant, Adrian invokes Camus, saying that \u201csuicide is the only true philosophical question.\u201d So, when Adrian himself does commit suicide years later, at which point he and Tony have long had a falling-out over another key character (a woman, natch), Tony is understandably quick to construe the act as a rejection of freedom, per Adrian\u2019s preferred philosopher. But a letter appears in Tony\u2019s mailbox suggesting otherwise, and Tony turns into something of a historian, one who must seek verifiable corroboration lest his only source be his fallible memory, sperm and all. Hence the mea culpa cum caveat in the beginning of \u201cThe Sense of an Ending.\u201d That statement is in agreement with the belief of the book\u2019s real author, Julian Barnes, who is practically the same age as Tony Webster. (Whom else would Tony be a stand-in for, with his frequent dives into quotability short of ostentation?) Barnes writes in his previous book, \u201cFor the older writer, memory and the imagination begin to seem less and less distinguishable. This is not because the imagined world is really much closer to the writer\u2019s world than he or she cares to admit (a common error among those who anatomize fiction) but for exactly the opposite reason: that memory itself comes to seem much closer to an act of imagination than ever before.\u201d That book of nonfiction is Barnes\u2019s meditation on memory and death, and its title, \u201cNothing to Be Frightened Of,\u201d sounds like an optimistic description of the title of Tony\u2019s own meditation on memory and death, itself borrowing from Frank Kermode\u2019s \u201cThe Sense of an Ending: Studies in the Theory of Fiction.\u201d \u201cNothing to Be Frightened Of\u201d may also be a phrase of consolation for Tony as he goes about his quest for closure since it may well be that the historian himself is the culprit unknowing. \u2014 Originally posted here . ...more Let me begin by saying that I don\u2019t mind short, understated books \u2013 novellas if you like. I do like them. What I don\u2019t like is paying the same money for a 150 page book, that could have easily been written by a skilled writer in a month, that I have to pay for a 826 page book involving loads of research full of medieval and linguistic references (yes, I am reading Nicola Barker\u2019s Darkmans). I just don\u2019t think that\u2019s fair. That said, it was a pretty decent book. It follows a very simple formula of Let me begin by saying that I don\u2019t mind short, understated books \u2013 novellas if you like. I do like them. What I don\u2019t like is paying the same money for a 150 page book, that could have easily been written by a skilled writer in a month, that I have to pay for a 826 page book involving loads of research full of medieval and linguistic references (yes, I am reading Nicola Barker\u2019s Darkmans). I just don\u2019t think that\u2019s fair. That said, it was a pretty decent book. It follows a very simple formula of an old man revisiting some events from his past. It has this Dead Poets Society/Catcher in the Rye feel to it if you know what I mean. There is a lot of meditation on how people and situations become warped by our memory. Our memories, especially those that we think about a lot, become simplified, they become symbols, they lose all their nuances. They become a game of Chinese whispers - a message that our brain keeps repeating to itself until it loses all the details and becomes completely distorted. This is not a terribly creative or original book and to be honest with you the final revelation was, er, rather cheesy. I know it is Julian Barnes, Booker Prize, what not, but that stuff was cheesy, ok? Julian Barnes and his narrator don't \"get\" women. It really pisses me off because how can you 'get' men and not 'get' women? We are not some sort mysterious, mystical, half human half something else species. But women in 'The Sense of an Ending' move in very mysterious ways. Tony's (the narrator's) ex-wife says one sentence to him : \"Now you are on your own\" and stops speaking to him. His ex-girlfriend comes back like a blast from the past to send him emails saying random things like : \"You will never get it so don't even try\" or meets up with him and doesn't talk at all but takes him to some place without any explanation. Seriously, WHO does that? Don't even get me started on the mother of the ex-girlfriend. Every single woman in this book does some seriously outlandish things. I know it all sounds like I didn't like the book, but I did. Me and that book we spent a nice afternoon together. ...more QUADRUPLE SPOILER ALERT! In terms of overt clues and Adrian's equation, Adrian had an affair (perhaps not so brief, near the end of his life) with Veronica's mother Sarah, who bore the child, also named Adrian, who was later sent (after Sarah's death?) to a caregiver facility. I think what nags at Tony at the end is that there are other possibilities that could fit the evidence better. Unless Veronica spills it, or Adrian's diary is not burnt after all, Tony can never know for sure. In all scenari QUADRUPLE SPOILER ALERT! In terms of overt clues and Adrian's equation, Adrian had an affair (perhaps not so brief, near the end of his life) with Veronica's mother Sarah, who bore the child, also named Adrian, who was later sent (after Sarah's death?) to a caregiver facility. I think what nags at Tony at the end is that there are other possibilities that could fit the evidence better. Unless Veronica spills it, or Adrian's diary is not burnt after all, Tony can never know for sure. In all scenarios he's guilty, in some achingly more than in others. The child could have been Veronica's by Adrian or by Tony. The memory of the trip to the river seems to imply a night of unprotected, romantic sex. Sarah might have cared for the baby when Veronica couldn't, or wouldn't. Veronica's pregnancy would have been when she and Adrian were newlyweds. He might have died thinking the baby was his. Or sure that it wasn't. Or not sure at all and tormented by it. Tony says the child (seen now as a young man) looks like the presumed father, his old friend Adrian. But did Tony look like Adrian? Is Tony looking into a mirror and denying the familiarity he sees? Is Tony's remarking on the resemblance a clue to throw us off the track? The child could have been Sarah's by Tony. This strange possibility best explains: 1) Sarah's bequest, 2) Veronica's rage, and 3) Sarah's enigmatic parting gesture to Tony, implying a secret they shared (that she'd seduced him during the visit). The fact that Adrian has repressed the memory of the sex act (but not the washing up after) would seem totally implausible, except in the context of this book which is all about how our minds rewrite history to suit our opinion of ourselves. It's a mind twister, and credit Barnes for giving plenty of clues but being brave enough to perplex his readers by providing only the sense of an ending. Cross-posted on www.boychiklit.com ...more We seem to have little control over our memories. The smallest things - an image, a smell, a color - can trigger scenes from our pasts, with such intensity, that it can cause physical pain. And then, there is that small grain of doubt. Are we remembering things the way they were, or the way we wished they had been? In our recollections, we surely appear kinder, smarter, younger, thinner and better looking. And we never did anything deliberately cruel... did we? This is a lovely, lovely book, pack We seem to have little control over our memories. The smallest things - an image, a smell, a color - can trigger scenes from our pasts, with such intensity, that it can cause physical pain. And then, there is that small grain of doubt. Are we remembering things the way they were, or the way we wished they had been? In our recollections, we surely appear kinder, smarter, younger, thinner and better looking. And we never did anything deliberately cruel... did we? This is a lovely, lovely book, packed with emotion, and slyly witty. It is about one man's history, and his regret over a rash act, performed so long, long ago. History manages to be both \"the lies of the victors and the self-delusions of the defeated. Do we remember that enough when it comes to our private lives?\" ...more I pulled out this short Booker Prize novel last night, thinking I'd just read a bit to get a feel for it, to know what to tell my book club about it (I need to suggest a choice of books to the book club tomorrow for their vote). A few hours later I finished the book, moved but a little bewildered. In the first fifty pages the narrator, Tony, tells of some events in his high school and college days: a group of rather pretentious friends (who, for the most part, play at being intellectuals), a rel I pulled out this short Booker Prize novel last night, thinking I'd just read a bit to get a feel for it, to know what to tell my book club about it (I need to suggest a choice of books to the book club tomorrow for their vote). A few hours later I finished the book, moved but a little bewildered. In the first fifty pages the narrator, Tony, tells of some events in his high school and college days: a group of rather pretentious friends (who, for the most part, play at being intellectuals), a relationship with a girl, Veronica, that didn't work out, a friend's suicide, marriage, divorce, retirement ... it sounds pretty pedestrian when he tells about it, though Julian Barnes has a wonderful way with words. Then the next hundred pages happen: a bequest in a will. A short, enigmatic note from the woman who died. A renewed acquaintance with Veronica. More surprises. (view spoiler) [And everything that Tony--and I as the reader--thought got upended. (hide spoiler) ] How often do we tell our own life story? How often do we adjust, embellish, make sly cuts? And the longer life goes on, the fewer are those around to challenge our account, to remind us that our life is not our life, merely the story we have told about our life. Told to others, but\u2014mainly\u2014to ourselves. Some readers dislike Tony enough that it dampens or ruins their enjoyment of the book, but I had a great deal of sympathy for him. I had wanted life not to bother me too much, and had succeeded -- and how pitiful that was. But time...how time first grounds us and then confounds us. We thought we were being mature when we were only being safe. We imagined we were being responsible but we were only being cowardly. I've felt those feelings. This blog has one writer's explanation of what was really happening, and an extremely long but intensely interesting comment section where various readers chip in with their theories and insights, which gave me a lot of food for thought. (view spoiler) [How unreliable of a narrator is Tony? Can we even trust what he says in the end? I tend to think so, at the very end, but I think it's clear that, at the least, he's still oblivious about some things, like how Veronica felt about him when they were dating. The comments that gave me the most food for thought were the ones that suggested he, too, had a fling with Veronica's mother, and was the actual father of her child. I don't think I buy it, ultimately, but ... (hide spoiler) ] I think I need to read this again. Content advisory: Scattered F-bombs and some sexual content. ...more WOW What a book. From beginning to end I was hooked by the story, by the intelligence of the words and the mystery that Julian Barnes subtly unravels before us. This is a novella or short novel (150 pages) but there was not a word lacking nor superfluous. I read it in a day and the ending wallops you. This is the story of memory and how we use it. It centers on Tony, a sixty-year old who forty years ago was intertwined with two friends Adrian and Veronica, who he dated for a year before she \"blow WOW What a book. From beginning to end I was hooked by the story, by the intelligence of the words and the mystery that Julian Barnes subtly unravels before us. This is a novella or short novel (150 pages) but there was not a word lacking nor superfluous. I read it in a day and the ending wallops you. This is the story of memory and how we use it. It centers on Tony, a sixty-year old who forty years ago was intertwined with two friends Adrian and Veronica, who he dated for a year before she \"blows him off\" in a mysterious manner. When he discovers she is dating Adrian, in a drunken rage he sends them both a nasty letter hoping to put both out of his mind. A few years later Adrian, following after the existential philosopher Camus, kills himself in a dramatic function believing \"that we had no choice being born, but we have the choice to end it\". The novella is divided in two parts: his youth and old age. What ties the two periods is when Tony, now a senior and retired, gets some inheritance money and reference to Adrian's diary from Veronica's mother who recently passed away. No spoiler here as the plot unwinds in Barnes' simple and evocative style. What I find fascinating in all of Barnes' work is how he builds the ordinary person as just that - ordinary like all of us. Tony goes through life as Veronica says \" you just don't get it\" and only through his persistence, does he find out what it is he is missing. As an aging male and a very ordinary person, I can empathize with Tony. Of course, Barnes' wit follows through the story surprizing us at various points. It's never heavy-handed and always ready to break the mood, which begins in a rather fun mode and changes as the story develops. I am a big fan of Barnes and really enjoyed his collection of short stories, \"Pulse\" just published a few months ago. It left me wanting more and Barnes delivers in this story. Favorable reviews in the Globe and Mail and The Guardian. As noted, it is a short story but one ponders so many points raised after the story was done. This makes it even more worthwhile to read. ...more \u0395\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03c4\u03af\u03c4\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 Julian Barnes. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03af\u03c4\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03b4\u03cc\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2, \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03b8\u03ad\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd. \u03a6\u03b9\u03bb\u03bf\u03c3\u03bf\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c7\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03ad\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u03a4\u03bf \u0395\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ce\u03bd \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae\u03c2, \u03bb\u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b7, \u03b1\u03c3\u03c6\u03b1\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b7, \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03ac\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03c9\u03c0\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03b1\u03c2. \u0397 \u03bd\u03b5\u03b1\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9\u03c2, \u03c0\u03bb\u03ad\u03bf\u03bd \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03c2 \u0395\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03c4\u03af\u03c4\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 Julian Barnes. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03af\u03c4\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03b4\u03cc\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2, \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03b8\u03ad\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd. \u03a6\u03b9\u03bb\u03bf\u03c3\u03bf\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c7\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03ad\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u03a4\u03bf \u0395\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ce\u03bd \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae\u03c2, \u03bb\u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b7, \u03b1\u03c3\u03c6\u03b1\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b7, \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03ac\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03c9\u03c0\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03b1\u03c2. \u0397 \u03bd\u03b5\u03b1\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9\u03c2, \u03c0\u03bb\u03ad\u03bf\u03bd \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u03a5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae\u03bd\u03c9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. ...more Umm. I mean this book was written ok and I get it, the whole unreliable narrator thing, but the protagonist is like a psychopath or what? I mean how could he have forgotten? And if what I think happened happened, WTF would Veronique still be talking to him? Why would the mom send him 500 pounds? WTF was that mathematical formula about? Maybe I a just too dense for English post-modernism and I gotta still to American post-modernist,. Hmpf. Disappointed :( When I think about my childhood, these are the images that flash before my eyes. -standing in the dark alley that led to my grandparents' home.... -riding on my fathers shoulders, passing by a petrol station ... -eating the parathas my mother packed in my lunch box for school... These memory snippets are quite vivid and I am sure they are all genuine. They are the clippings, the photo album of days long gone and In a way, they are all I have from the past. Everything else has changed. The Sense of A When I think about my childhood, these are the images that flash before my eyes. -standing in the dark alley that led to my grandparents' home.... -riding on my fathers shoulders, passing by a petrol station ... -eating the parathas my mother packed in my lunch box for school... These memory snippets are quite vivid and I am sure they are all genuine. They are the clippings, the photo album of days long gone and In a way, they are all I have from the past. Everything else has changed. The Sense of An Ending is a walk down the memory's lane, narrated by an old man who thinks that He remembers all the details; His friendship with a brilliant fellow, his romance with his girlfriend, his tumultuous sex life and his growing up too. And one day, it all changes with the arrival of a letter. He learns that there is a part of his past that he doesn't know about, that he missed the whole picture and never realized it. As he explores, he learns that memory can be deceptive and unreliable. That there is more to our lives' story than we realize. The old man suffers a painful disillusionment and the past as he knew it ends for him. His carefully constructed edifice of love, jealousy and youth collapses right before his eyes. And he is too old to build a new one. Memories are the brick and mortar of our personality, our character, and without them we are rubble. And Life, like history, is a story of accumulation, responsibility and unrest, great unrest. ...more I bought this book at Paddington railway station, to read on the way home. It's not my normal type of book but I knew it had won the man Booker Prize and I'd seen some positive comment in the press. It's a short book (one of the reasons I bought it) and it quickly confirmed itself to me as a wise purchase; I was laughing out loud after a few pages, totally hooked. Barnes is obviously a clever guy and I found I had to look up a few words along the way (I was home by then). But as a former lexicog I bought this book at Paddington railway station, to read on the way home. It's not my normal type of book but I knew it had won the man Booker Prize and I'd seen some positive comment in the press. It's a short book (one of the reasons I bought it) and it quickly confirmed itself to me as a wise purchase; I was laughing out loud after a few pages, totally hooked. Barnes is obviously a clever guy and I found I had to look up a few words along the way (I was home by then). But as a former lexicographer (yes, I had to look that up too) what else would you expect. Rounded off by a decent twist at the end this is a brilliant read. It's a book I'll read again, a rarity for me - if only to look up a few more of those words I didn't recognise! ...more Tony Webster does not get it. He never did and he never will. And there's no help for him because he can't even ask the right questions. His obtuseness is chronic. In the end he finds the answers to the \"mystery\" at the heart of this story, but it's like having a joke explained - the amusement becomes purely intellectual. The \"getting\" is in the quiet little click which takes place in your depth, an uncharted country that can't be explained, certainly not by me. It's the place where love happens Tony Webster does not get it. He never did and he never will. And there's no help for him because he can't even ask the right questions. His obtuseness is chronic. In the end he finds the answers to the \"mystery\" at the heart of this story, but it's like having a joke explained - the amusement becomes purely intellectual. The \"getting\" is in the quiet little click which takes place in your depth, an uncharted country that can't be explained, certainly not by me. It's the place where love happens, where you find empathy, where you connect with another person. By the time Tony has things halfway figured out, the answer is irrelevant. I did not like Tony. In fact I did not like anyone in this book. And the \"events\" are as preposterous as the themes are big. It's The Graduate , it's L'\u00c9tranger . It's The Sound and the Fury - twice. Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow. It's all the things *Literature* is always about, \"love, sex, morality, friendship, happiness, suffering, betrayal, adultery, good and evil, heroes and villains, guilt and innocence, ambition, power, justice, revolution, war, fathers and sons, mothers and daughters, the individual against society, success and failure, murder, suicide, death, God. And barn owls\". Well, maybe not murder. Two suicides occur because of the fear \"of the pram in the hall\". That same fear devastated the bright - and the bland. The supposed genius of Adrian we had to take on faith. He never does or says anything to confirm it. His jaw-dropping intelligence reminds me of that guy sitting next to you in class who asks questions which are so transparently not questions at all, just a platform to show off his vast insights. Ditto with Robson's supposed ordinariness. This we must take on faith from Tony, whose assessment is \"a steady, unimaginative boy, gravely uninterested in the arts, who had trundled along without offending anyone.\" And then there's Veronica, her mind and personality given to us by books and music. She doesn't like Dvo\u0159\u00e1k (I hate her\u2026). She does like Eliot and, \"Auden, MacNeice, Stevie Smith, Thom Gunn, Ted Hughes. There were Left Book Club editions of Orwell and Koestler, some calf-bound nineteenth-century novels, a couple of childhood Arthur Rackhams, and her comfort book, I Capture the Castle\" (hmm maybe she's okay\u2026). But what fun it is watching the story unfold - and smugly thinking, I get it. *Or do I\u2026?* All this is packed into a neat little book, and tied up with lovely writing. The Severn Bore episode is outstanding, I don't think I can properly convey the effect that moment had on me. It wasn't like a tornado or an earthquake (not that I'd witnessed either) \u2013 nature being violent and destructive, putting us in our place. It was more unsettling because it looked and felt quietly wrong, as if some small lever of the universe had been pressed, and here, just for these minutes, nature was reversed, and time with it. And to see this phenomenon after dark made it the more mysterious, the more other-worldly. And there are mini essays, Also, when you are young, you think you can predict the likely pains and bleaknesses that age might bring. You imagine yourself being lonely, divorced, widowed; children growing away from you, friends dying. You imagine the loss of status, the loss of desire \u2013 and desirability. You may go further and consider your own approaching death, which, despite what company you may muster, can only be faced alone. But all this is looking ahead. What you fail to do is look ahead, and then imagine yourself looking back from that future point. Learning the new emotions that time brings. Discovering, for example, that as the witnesses to your life diminish, there is less corroboration, and therefore less certainty, as to what you are or have been. Even if you have assiduously kept records \u2013 in words, sound, pictures \u2013 you may find that you have attended to the wrong kind of record-keeping. Yes, we are enlightened by these many little reflections on life, death, memory, indeed the very title, The Sense of an Ending , but...it is a bit heavy-handed...if only Barnes had a lighter touch. ...more", "Title": "The Sense of an Ending"},
