{"Comments": "After you read this, you will never look at Alzheimer's the same again.<---F> Nor will you ever forget it</---F>. Oh the irony. I'd always correlated Alzheimer's disease with old age and heard the best way to combat it was to exercise your brain. I do my fair share of reading, can solve a Sudoku puzzle faster than 98% of the population, and I shun mindless chick flicks for your more intelligent thrillers, but I'll never be as brilliant as Alice, a 50-year-old Harvard professor diagnosed with early-onset Alzhe After you read this, you will never look at Alzheimer's the same again. Nor will you ever forget it. Oh the irony. I'd always correlated Alzheimer's disease with old age and heard the best way to combat it was to exercise your brain. I do my fair share of reading, can solve a Sudoku puzzle faster than 98% of the population, and I shun mindless chick flicks for your more intelligent thrillers, but I'll never be as brilliant as Alice, a 50-year-old Harvard professor diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's. If she had been a little shallow to begin with or 20 years older. If my own aunt weren't suffering from an advanced stage of the disease right now. If I weren't feeling a little hazy myself when I'm up half the night with an infant. Maybe then I could have put another barrier between me and Alzheimer's, but I can't. Alice's story scared me. A lot. After all, what are we without the identity of our thoughts? So much for those Sudoku puzzles. I lived Alice's story right along with her, crying when she cried and smiling at her accomplishments. Telling your story from such an unreliable witness is a tough job and Genova handles it beautifully. As the book progresses, the scenes feel more and more misplaced. As a reader I was thrust into the situation along with Alice, unsure of the setting or the time or what had happened five minutes before. Genova also offers some poignant scenes where we the reader know what Alice has forgotten and our heart breaks for her. When she forgets her daughter,<---M> her husband</---M>, the layout of her house, how to lick an ice cream cone, we mourn the Alice lost right along with her and her family. I can't imagine losing everything I learned, all the way back to basic needs like how to walk, feed, or even use the bathroom. I felt Alice's frustration at forgetting words and people and most of all being shut out because she was stigmatized with this disease as though she were already dead. Because the narration is told through Alice, there are a few plot points that get lost, but I think we gain more than we lose from her perspective. And those lost points add to all she loses. Sometimes the descriptions of Boston get a little lengthy and the medical descriptions cold and drawn-out, giving the novel a little bit of a medical journal instead of novel feel, but I was still captivated by Alice and her plight, and I loved that Genova had the background to give us a real look into Alzheimer's, to make it come alive in the pages. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [My other disappointment with the story was that John got a chapter. It's only a page and half, but where Genova managed to tell everything else in the novel from a not-always-reliable Alice, she could have managed that chapter as well. Not a big issue and it didn't take away from the impact of the story. (hide spoiler) ] Even though the story is told through Alice's unreliable eyes, I felt for each of the characters in her family as well. When I wanted to be angry at John for avoiding the disease, I couldn't. I felt for him. Having a spouse go through Alzheimer's must be one of the hardest things. Not only do you watch your spouse suffer and take on the role of full-time caretaker, a major life-changing physical and financial burden, but you lose your partner and confidante. And to experience early-onset when you should be experiencing some of the best of life is devastating. I could see why he didn't want to deal with it. I wouldn't want to see a parent go through this either. (view spoiler) [It didn't surprise me that Lydia was the one who adapted best to her mother's illness. Not only was she the most adaptable, but she had the most ground to repair with her mother. Sometimes I wanted to hug her. Anne was scheduled and meticulous and this didn't fit into her plan for life. I think I would react more like Anne, or maybe even John. (hide spoiler) ] I don't know. It's hard to think about. I hope I never have to. I can't stop thinking about Alzheimer's and hoping they come up with a cure soon. Genova has done a fabulous job bringing attention to this debilitating disease and I love that she self-published because it was too important to wait. Kudos, Genova. ...more Is my identity something that transcends neurons, proteins, and defective molecules of DNA? Is my soul and spirit immune to the ravages of Alzheimer's? I believe it is. I read this book for three reasons. 1) I have never read a book about Alzheimer's disease, 2) For personal reasons, I have an interest in Alzheimer's, and 3) It has an incredibly high average rating on goodreads. That being said, I have to confess that I didn't really go into this expecting to like it. I picked it up from the li Is my identity something that transcends neurons, proteins, and defective molecules of DNA? Is my soul and spirit immune to the ravages of Alzheimer's? I believe it is. I read this book for three reasons. 1) I have never read a book about Alzheimer's disease, 2) For personal reasons, I have an interest in Alzheimer's, and 3) It has an incredibly high average rating on goodreads. That being said, I have to confess that I didn't really go into this expecting to like it. I picked it up from the library so I wouldn't have to spend money on it and so I could return it quickly when I realised it was nothing more than the regular Nicholas Sparks -style melodramatic chick lit. I started it with a bored sigh, thinking I would soon be putting it aside to distract myself with the internet or any of the million TV shows I'm currently trying to keep up with. But something unexpected happened. This is not chick lit, whatever you want to interpret that to mean. It isn't melodramatic or emotionally manipulative. It isn't the Alzheimer's equivalent of the standard - forgive me - \"cancer book\". Instead, this is a deeply moving psychological portrait of a woman's deteriorating mind and how this gradually affects her relationships with the people around her. It's about an intelligent woman suddenly finding that she can no longer rely on her mind, she tries every day to hold onto her memories, her sense of understanding, and we are taken on a terrifying journey into what it must be like to know you are slowly losing pieces of yourself day by day. I have no desire to trivialize cancer or any other disease, I have lost several people I've loved to cancer and know how horrible it is. But Alzheimer's is a whole different type of monster. There's one part of the book where Alice says she wishes she could swap her disease for cancer and then instantly feels bad about it, but I understand where the feelings come from. With cancer, you can fight. There's chemotherapy, radiotherapy and yes, they don't always work, but you can go down fighting. With Alzheimer's, there's still no way to fight it, no chance of overcoming the disease. The diagnosis carries a tragic hopelessness with it, because all you can do is sit around and wait for your mind to deteriorate. Sometimes you can really tell when an author knows their subject and, in my opinion, it makes all the difference. I recall Split by Swati Avasthi in particular and the way the author's background working with abuse victims helped her have a deeper understanding of the characters she was dealing with and the story she was telling. Genova holds a Harvard PHD in Neuroscience and there is a surety and confidence in her scientific explanations of the disease that makes this fact evident in her writing. She knows the small details of what she's talking about and so the bigger picture is naturally more convincing. On a personal note, there is a history of Alzheimer's in my family. I don't understand it enough to know whether it's genetic or a coincidence that many of the women on my mother's side have suffered from the disease. I do know my mum is afraid of it, though she doesn't talk about it often. But every time she forgets where she put something she was holding just minutes ago, every time she reaches for a word - a word she uses every day - and it slips away, just out of her grasp, every single time she wonders if it's a sign of something more serious than getting older and having a busy schedule. It's this small scale stuff that makes the novel so terrifying. We could all be Alice. We all forget small things every day, that's just a fact and it happens to everyone, but what if one day those forgotten memories don't come back straight away? And the next time, what if they go a bit longer? The progression from the small things to the more serious stages of the disease is truly scary. This book is frightening on both a biologial and psychological level. When I think of Alzheimer's, I think of forgotten memories, of faces you can't put a name to, of everyday places that seem unfamiliar. But the author's haunting descriptions of the biological truth are entirely different and frightening on a whole new level. I don't think about what is really happening in the brain, neurons being destroyed bit by bit, dying some more every day, eroding pieces of who you are. Memories, for me, are those things that disappear for a while but come back to you later. But Alzheimer's doesn't make you forget memories, it goes in and completely destroys them. As if they were never there. And that is the important question for Alice: how much can she lose and still be herself? If our entire personalities are built from memories, sensory experiences, from the things we've said and done, who are we when we no longer remember any of that? How can you make today matter when tomorrow you won't even remember it? It's a sad book but it doesn't fail to leave you with a glimpse of light in the darkness too. But I'll leave you to find out what that is for yourself. The final comment I'd like to make is not so much a criticism of the book but a comment on what I'd personally like to see on this subject in the future. As I said at the beginning, I've never read a book about Alzheimer's before and I may be missing a very good one that already exists, but I kept thinking while reading this that I'd like to read a story about someone who wasn't as successful as Alice. Alice gains comfort from the fact that she has had a fantastic career, a husband who loves her, and three intelligent children. She's obviously right to cling to all the good things in her life, but I wonder how the story would be different if told about a man or woman without Alice's financial prosperity. There has to be so many different stories and experiences to be told about this disease and I suddenly find myself wanting to read more of them. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store ...more I give this book 5 stars not because its an amazing piece of literature but because of its impact on me. I can't stop thinking about it and when I was reading it I couldn't put it down. It is the story of Alice, a brilliant professor of cognitive psychology at Harvard and a world-renowned expert in linguistics who discovers she has early onset Alzheimer's disease. This book is beautiful and terrifying - ringing true in every word. To quote a reviewer, \"with a master storyteller's easy eloquence, I give this book 5 stars not because its an amazing piece of literature but because of its impact on me. I can't stop thinking about it and when I was reading it I couldn't put it down. It is the story of Alice, a brilliant professor of cognitive psychology at Harvard and a world-renowned expert in linguistics who discovers she has early onset Alzheimer's disease. This book is beautiful and terrifying - ringing true in every word. To quote a reviewer, \"with a master storyteller's easy eloquence, Genova shines a searing spotlight on this Alice's surreal wonderland. You owe it to yourself and your loved ones to read this book. It will inform you. it will scare you. It will change you.\" It has changed me. ...more Update I just watched the film. It was very moving, an awful depiction of a terrible disease. I forget words. I worry that maybe... I don't even want to think of it. Good as the film was, it wasn't as good as the book. It could stand alone though as a separate work that more just shared names and a title. June 2015 _____ <+++>Still Alice</+++> reads like a memoir of Alzheimer's disease written by a family member but is in fact the first novel by a neuroscientist who, apart from being a great deal younger, li Update I just watched the film. It was very moving, an awful depiction of a terrible disease. I forget words. I worry that maybe... I don't even want to think of it. Good as the film was, it wasn't as good as the book. It could stand alone though as a separate work that more just shared names and a title. June 2015 _____ <+++>Still Alice</+++> reads like a memoir of Alzheimer's disease written by a family member but is in fact the first novel by a neuroscientist who, apart from being a great deal younger, lives the successful life of a top academic, as does Alice. The book is unputdownable. I read through the night; dawn came and went and still I couldn't put it down but I don't really know why. The writing was ok, a bit heavy-handed at times, the denoument was predetermined and inevitable but still the book was as gripping as any top-ten thriller. Perhaps it was the progress through a disease that strikes at random and about which we know almost nothing from the sufferer's point of view? <---A>Lisa Genova</---A> self-published the book and it has reached the rank of 150 in 'books' on Amazon. When I see a self-published book with 10 or 15 glowing reviews, mostly written by people who've never written a review before, I think they are probably the author's friends and dismiss the review in favour of one by an independent publication (if there is one). But when a self-published book attracts 190 reviews and a 5 star rating, I know that the book is definitely worth considering, not just for my own reading pleasure but also to order for my bookshop. This book is more than worthy of consideration, its ourselves, our families as we might be, and its a good read too. ...more No one understands the high stakes associated with making a book recommendation like a serious reader, especially when it's to a good friend, co-worker, or family member. Books that we love say a lot about our personalities, things that we're passionate about, and even shed light on our past experiences (good and bad). That's a lot to share with someone! Along with that pressure is the fear of introducing the wrong book to the wrong reader, or getting the timing wrong. What if they absolutely ha No one understands the high stakes associated with making a book recommendation like a serious reader, especially when it's to a good friend, co-worker, or family member. Books that we love say a lot about our personalities, things that we're passionate about, and even shed light on our past experiences (good and bad). That's a lot to share with someone! Along with that pressure is the fear of introducing the wrong book to the wrong reader, or getting the timing wrong. What if they absolutely hate it?! Where does that leave us? The flip side is equally scary. When someone you esteem recommends a book that they hold dear, and upon reading it, you find that you hated it, that can make things a little awkward. \"How'd you like that book I loaned you?\" might just be the subject of your recurring nightmare. I've sometimes found myself wondering, \"Why on earth would this person think this book would speak to me ? Obviously we're not as close as I thought we were.\" I exaggerate, but no one understands these common reading kerfuffles like readers do! It's why I struggle to keep silent when I see someone bypassing a book I thought was brilliant (and on sale, no less) at a bookstore. I want to run after them and say, \"Put that corny romance novel back and take this . It changed my life!\" It's also why I try to avoid talking to strangers in bookstores who want to unload all their favorites on me without knowing a thing about me. On several occasions, I've dutifully waited until said person cleared out of the store before returning Jimmy Buffet's latest book to its shelf, along with the copy of Zane's current bestseller. I'm not knocking them, I just know what I like...and it's not that! This summer when I was shopping for books at a local thrift store, a woman shoved Still Alice into my overflowing shopping cart. I was a bit annoyed. She didn't know me! All she kept saying was that if I hadn't read it, I needed to. Apparently, it had changed her life. There in that aisle, a complete stranger started talking to me about caring for her mother who had Alzheimer's, and how this book turned the tables by giving the reader the perspective of the victim of the disease. Before I knew it, I was sharing my story about my grandmother, and her current battle with ALS, an equally progressive degenerative disease with no cure. Talk about books bringing people together! Though I didn't get her name, I left the store with this book based solely on that woman's recommendation...and I absolutely loved it! I wish I could tell her how right she was. This book hit a raw nerve, and really took me out of the caregiver role in order to focus on the real heroes battling neurological disorders every day. What must it be like to wish for a \"logical\" disease that one could fight with medication or radiation? One particular question that Alice, the protagonist, asks really struck me to the core: \"Is the part of my brain that's responsible for my unique 'me-ness' vulnerable to this disease? Or is my identity something that transcends neurons, proteins, and defective molecules of DNA? Is my soul and spirit immune to the ravages of Alzheimer's?\" I'm going to be as equally pushy as my nameless thrift store friend. Read this book! Don't make me chase after you, because I wear my running shoes to the bookstore nowadays. That is all. ...more This was a very powerful book! I had never really intended to read this, but after watching the movie recently, I couldn't resist. I would definitely recommend both the book and the movie, but read the book first if you don't want to spoil the experience for yourself. The way it's written really adds a lot of feeling to the story. The biggest problem with self-published work is the lack of an editor who tells you how to go from good to great. \u201cStill Alice\u201d has a wonderful premise: let\u2019s tell the story of Alzheimer\u2019s from the patient\u2019s point of view, but somehow the book sounds like a professor telling you the Alzheimer\u2019s story from a patient\u2019s point of view, rather than having the patient tell her own story. (Using first person rather than third would have been more effective.) I felt that I was reading nothing more than The biggest problem with self-published work is the lack of an editor who tells you how to go from good to great. \u201cStill Alice\u201d has a wonderful premise: let\u2019s tell the story of Alzheimer\u2019s from the patient\u2019s point of view, but somehow the book sounds like a professor telling you the Alzheimer\u2019s story from a patient\u2019s point of view, rather than having the patient tell her own story. (Using first person rather than third would have been more effective.) I felt that I was reading nothing more than an extended patient case study in a research journal. Additionally, the character of Alice blurred with the author\u2019s identity at times\u2026 I found myself asking, \u201cWho\u2019s really telling the story here, Alice or Lisa Genova?\u201d Or, one minute you felt like you were inside Alice\u2019s head, you really knew what she was thinking, but then the frame of reference would shift to being outside of her observing from someone else\u2019s perspective. I never totally felt connected with Alice as a real person. I thought that the supporting cast around Alice could have been better developed, but her children were fairly one dimensional people and her conversations with them were about one subject only given that the children had only one thing that defined each of them (i.e., having a baby, auditioning for a play). The one relationship that rang partly true was the one she had with her husband, who waffled between wanting to do his best to support his wife but also feeling that he needed to look after his own interests given that Alice might not be around in his future. His practicality tended to overrule his emotions, which is typical in many men. Having lived with Alzheimer\u2019s in my family, I felt that the book glossed over some really hard-hitting aspects of Alzheimer\u2019s. While it touched on the concept of suicide, the book sidestepped the issue by making Alice unable to find her pills when she (momentarily) realized that the time had come. Therefore, the book was able to end with Alice presumably slipping away into oblivion in the arms of a warm, loving, happy family. Ha. My own personal experiences with Alzheimer\u2019s would suggest that this is not an accurate portrayal of what it feels like to actually DIE of Alzheimer\u2019s. I felt bad that Alice had been unable to find her pills and therefore would have to go through something that she -- when she was still lucid enough to write her thoughts down -- had adamantly expressed that she did not want to have to deal with. ...more Emotionally charged debut novel on early-onset Alzheimer's Disease.... <---C>Alice Howland</---C> is a highly-respected psychology professor and linguistics expert at Harvard with a professional husband and three adult children. At the age of about fifty, she is diagnosed with this disease -- which progresses quickly. As you may expect, Alice's life changes along with the disease. The story is told somewhat \"matter of factly\" from Alice's point of view and describes the real changes that her life undergoes - Emotionally charged debut novel on early-onset Alzheimer's Disease.... Alice Howland is a highly-respected psychology professor and linguistics expert at Harvard with a professional husband and three adult children. At the age of about fifty, she is diagnosed with this disease -- which progresses quickly. As you may expect, Alice's life changes along with the disease. The story is told somewhat \"matter of factly\" from Alice's point of view and describes the real changes that her life undergoes -- as well as how her family handles this diagnosis. I think that there is much to be learned from this book as far as being a caregiver or being a patient -- regardless of the exact disease. I would expect that it will be most impactful to those who have experienced caring for a family member or close friend with Alzheimer's firsthand. I was really interested to learn that Lisa Genova self-published this (her first) novel initially and then it was later picked up by Simon & Schuster. Below link is to her website which also includes some of the early press around this book and her call to action on raising disease awareness -- as well as the movie that followed (which I still have to see!)... http://lisagenova.com/still-alice/ Still Alice was a wonderful sad story that brought further awareness to this insidious disease. I highly recommend to any other readers who have been slow to pick it up. I listened to an audio version read by the author which was well done. ...more It's difficult to write that I really enjoyed Still Alice considering the subject matter, which is not an easy one to read about. Lisa Genova has provided a really insightful and intuitive account into the world of the early onset of Alzheimer's Disease. This is a very well written book and rather than it being told in an overly dramatic way, which could have been the manner some authors may have approached the story, Genova related it in a most respectful, considerate and compassionate manner. It's difficult to write that I really enjoyed Still Alice considering the subject matter, which is not an easy one to read about. Lisa Genova has provided a really insightful and intuitive account into the world of the early onset of Alzheimer's Disease. This is a very well written book and rather than it being told in an overly dramatic way, which could have been the manner some authors may have approached the story, Genova related it in a most respectful, considerate and compassionate manner. In all honesty, I was quite hesitant about reading this book, although I had read many great and positive reviews about it from friends. Personally this disease is one of my worst nightmares and I think because I am a few years away from the age when Alice was diagnosed with the disease, it kind of hit home with me even more and was probably the reason I put off reading this book for so long. I found myself asking, what if? what would you do? how would you cope? how would your family cope? A lot of these questions were addressed in this book by both Alice and her family and friend\u2019s experience of dealing with the disease. Really, at the end of the day, there is nothing you can do, it is a disease which is out of your control, in the end, unfortunately you just have to accept and hope that someday, with research, a cure will be found. It was upsetting to read about the slow digression of Alice's state of mind both in connection with her work and her family and friends. Every time Alice checked back to her five answers on her list, to see how far the disease was affecting her, I found myself willing her to remember, it was like a silent shout out loud to her, hoping and wishing for her to recover. It was heartbreaking reading, how Alice, who was such a learned, esteemed and highly regarded academic at Harvard, had to give it all up and sacrifice herself, her family and career to this horrible disease. It was distressing to read how Alice slowly began to not recognise her husband or children as the disease got progressively worse. Lydia's character, Alice's youngest daughter, in particular, stood out for me in the book. It was emotional and uplifting to see how Alice and Lydia, who initially had a rocky mother-daughter relationship, in the end, found a lot of support, encouragement, comfort and friendship in one another. Initially I thought that Genova should have allowed John, Alice's husband, a voice in the book, allowed him to give his side of the story, tell us how the disease affected him and share his thoughts with us as he made this journey with Alice. However, upon reflection, I think that Genova did actually give John a voice, not directly to the reader as such, but in a more subtle way. We never really knew how John was feeling, never really knew his thoughts. We saw his frustrations and in some ways he appeared to carry on as normal as possible. I think now, that Genova actually got this right in her portrayal of John. John's world was turned on its head by Alice's disease. I would imagine that his thoughts and feelings were a mixture of disbelief and perhaps he didn't fully believe that this disease could just come out of the blue, reach into his world and shatter it...I got the impression that he was trying to avoid reality for as long as he possibly could and continue as normal, because if he let his guard slip, for one moment, then Alice\u2019s situation and therefore his situation, would become a reality, a reality which he would have to face and accept. In my opinion, outwardly he tried to ignore this for as long as he could but on the inside I think he was just shocked and devastated. I felt that John's twisting of his wedding ring many times in the book was quite significant and symbolic. For me, Alice's diagnosis was, in essence, soul-destroying for John. It meant that his marriage, his relationship with his life-long partner, his family life, his world as he previously knew it, was slowly slipping away from him, slowly becoming something he didn't recognise and there was nothing he could do about it. That is something that is difficult to come to terms with for any human being. I only had an issue with one aspect of the book and that was all of the medical jargon, mostly near the beginning of the book. I realise it was absolutely necessary in the telling of this story and telling the story accurately, but quite honestly, most of it went over my head, due I suppose, to my own ignorance. I became a little bit bored with it, especially when John and the doctor were discussing the different options, trials and medications available to Alice. In summary, this is a book that you will find hard to put down until you reach the end. You will go on Alice\u2019s journey with her and it is not a pleasant one. It was very educational and I learned a lot. It was an extremely thought-provoking read. I admire anyone going through this illness, their family, friends, those who care for them and those who continue to research for this cause. Hopefully, some day soon, studies in research will find a cure for this most awful disease. ...more \u201c... just because [butterflies'] lives were short didn't mean they were tragic... See, they have a beautiful life.\u201d \u2015 Lisa Genova, Still Alice Strong message. Made me cry and think about the life I would definitely recommend. Just GO read this book. I chose to read this book whilst taking a break from a very heavy read. What a great choice. It seems I'm behind the eight ball again, having only just read my first novel by this outstandingly talented author. What an inspiring, emotional and ultimately rewarding read, on a topic that is real and wretched and terribly sad. Alice is a brilliant and gifted Harvard Processor that hits her 50's with early onset Alzheimer's. I was taken in by this lovely lady, a beautiful character that Genova creat I chose to read this book whilst taking a break from a very heavy read. What a great choice. It seems I'm behind the eight ball again, having only just read my first novel by this outstandingly talented author. What an inspiring, emotional and ultimately rewarding read, on a topic that is real and wretched and terribly sad. Alice is a brilliant and gifted Harvard Processor that hits her 50's with early onset Alzheimer's. I was taken in by this lovely lady, a beautiful character that Genova created and told her story with eloquence and grace. She has created a piece of work that speaks of such a hard topic, with factual information in a way that could be described as hauntingly real. This author has shown respect for this topic by researching thoroughly, she's a very clever woman. If a reader was to have personal experience with this topic, I would understand their having doubts with this one, but I think it actually may be a wise choice? I loved Alice, I adore a book where I can say that about the central character. I could still see her, thanks to the skilful writing of this fabulous author. I'm a happy reader right now, please read this one, it's so good! ...more Fifty year old Alice Howland, a world-renowned expert in linguistics and a cognitive psychology professor at Harvard is diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Still Alice is the story of the unraveling of Alice's life as her disease progresses. I started out not enjoying this book. The author's main character wasn't very likeable \u2013 she seemed too focused on how smart she was and how important and prestigious her job was, but I was quickly won over. Lisa Genova wrote from Alice's perspect Fifty year old Alice Howland, a world-renowned expert in linguistics and a cognitive psychology professor at Harvard is diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Still Alice is the story of the unraveling of Alice's life as her disease progresses. I started out not enjoying this book. The author's main character wasn't very likeable \u2013 she seemed too focused on how smart she was and how important and prestigious her job was, but I was quickly won over. Lisa Genova wrote from Alice's perspective so the reader joins in the fear, disorientation, and confusion that come with the progression of Alzheimer's. Alice's relationships with her family and their varying responses to Alice's decline are extremely believable, and the most touching parts of the book are the evolution of Alice's relationships with her husband and children as her disease progresses. Still Alice is a fantastic book that provides an incredible window into the progression of Alzheimer's disease and is both terrifying and heart-rending. Warning - it will make you question all your middle-age moments of forgetfulness ...more I wanted to like this book, I really did. I picked it because my mother suffered from dementia and I expected to relate to it.But I almost gave up on it in the first few chapters. Good writing is of paramount importance to me, and the writing here, while not godawful, has first book written all over it. Way too many \"information drops,\" where the author tells us all about something or somebody in a chunk of info instead of just letting it unfold in naturally ocurring parts of the story. I'm glad I wanted to like this book, I really did. I picked it because my mother suffered from dementia and I expected to relate to it.But I almost gave up on it in the first few chapters. Good writing is of paramount importance to me, and the writing here, while not godawful, has first book written all over it. Way too many \"information drops,\" where the author tells us all about something or somebody in a chunk of info instead of just letting it unfold in naturally ocurring parts of the story. I'm glad I stuck with it though, because the book improved considerably as it went on. I know, of course, that Alzheimer's varies from patient to patient, but I have to say that much of this did not seem to reflect my experience with my mother. My mother was every bit as intelligent and involved in things as Alice. She was Phi Beta Kappa in Zoology,later became a professional landscape designer, read voraciously. Yet she never had the insight that Alice did about what was wrong with her. As I said, each case is different, but I felt that the author gave Alice too much insight and self-awareness, especially when the disease was pretty far advanced. Granted, Alice couldn't express her articulate thoughts in words to her family, but I had a hard time believing someone as far gone as she was would have such insightful, articulate thoughts at all. Still, I found the last 1/3 of the book to be interesting and affecting. I especially liked the way the Alice's answers to her self quiz deteriorated without her being aware of it. That was spot on. ...more I avoided this book for a long time, though I\u2019m not exactly sure why. I think the premise (or at least what I understood to be the premise) reminded me of a book I read last year that was so horribly executed I felt very little inclination to get into something similar again. Who wants another lousy memory loss story, anyway? Well, put me in the \u201cwrong again, asshole!\u201d category because where the first book failed, converting an otherwise interesting idea into cheesy mindless schlock, this one de I avoided this book for a long time, though I\u2019m not exactly sure why. I think the premise (or at least what I understood to be the premise) reminded me of a book I read last year that was so horribly executed I felt very little inclination to get into something similar again. Who wants another lousy memory loss story, anyway? Well, put me in the \u201cwrong again, asshole!\u201d category because where the first book failed, converting an otherwise interesting idea into cheesy mindless schlock, this one delivered just fine. It is the story of Alice Howland, a professor of psychology at Harvard University who, at the height of her research career, slowly begins exhibiting signs of early-onset dementia. Attributing her symptoms to stress or exhaustion at first, she eventually learns that she carries a gene mutation responsible for Alzheimer\u2019s and is already well into the early stages of the disease. Knowing the gene mutation is autosomal dominant (meaning she only needs one copy of the gene to express the disease), each of her three children stands a 50% chance of inheriting the disease as well. The knowledge of this, on top of her own losses of stature, confidence, and ultimately her independence, serves only to compound the agony. It is not all perfect, of course. The book is fairly breezy, refusing to delve much past the expected feelings of frustration, loneliness, and confusion that accompanies Alzheimer\u2019s, and it often times felt rather clinical and pamphlet-y. But I am a giant nerd\u2014I like clinical and pamphlet-y when the subject matter is in my realm of interests. Regardless, the book serves a purpose. It strikes the reader as remaining fairly true to the experiences of someone beginning to lose the required synapses necessary to retain memory and cognitive function\u2014my second grader would call this \u201crealistic fiction\u201d\u2014and as of its publication, it is in fact the only novel ever to have been endorsed by the Alzheimer\u2019s Association. And what I\u2019m saying here is that I guess I am endorsing it a little bit, too. ...more I couldn't put this book down. And, I agree with other reviews of this book that it was heartbreaking. But, I saw something else in this story. Pain and heartache and change comes into everyone's life in some form and not everything that comes from that is bad. Genova does a good job of showing the devastation in Alzheimers but also the beauty in redefined relationships. There are an estimated five hundred thousand people in the United States with early-onset Alzheimer\u2019s disease (as at 2007 when this book was first published). Early-onset is defined as Alzheimer\u2019s under the age of sixty-five. Symptoms can develop in the thirties and forties. Having worked in the pharmaceutical industry, I\u2019ve always been interested in disease, genetics, clinical trials and finally being able to see, after so many years of research and many failures included, a medicinal product There are an estimated five hundred thousand people in the United States with early-onset Alzheimer\u2019s disease (as at 2007 when this book was first published). Early-onset is defined as Alzheimer\u2019s under the age of sixty-five. Symptoms can develop in the thirties and forties. Having worked in the pharmaceutical industry, I\u2019ve always been interested in disease, genetics, clinical trials and finally being able to see, after so many years of research and many failures included, a medicinal product that can help those individuals who have cancer, MS, etc. I keep on hoping that soon a \"general\" medicinal product will become available that will cure all of these diseases but then I suppose that will put the pharma industry out of business. Am I cynical here? I guess the answer is yes. So after reading Eve\u2019s review I had to read this book and what an absolutely incredible book it turned out to be. How Lisa Genova could have found such sensitivity in writing this novel I will never know. I guess her background of having a PhD in neuroscience from Harvard University gave her the necessary impetus to write this \u201cmillion copy bestseller\u201d. She admitted that she had, of course, done a lot of research and well, her end result was perfect. I cannot fault it in any respect. But where can one possibly begin with this incredible book? Imagine that you are a fifty year old, apparently healthy and have had a successful twenty-five year career in psycholinguistics and are the \u201ceminent William James\u201d Professor of Psychology at Harvard University; a happily married woman called Alice (Ali to her husband John, a scientist) and three children who on the whole she was very proud of \u2013 Anna, Tom and Lydia. Admittedly the latter was a worry to Alice as she wanted to become an actress and had been living in Los Angeles for three years and had missed out on a college education, much to her sibling Anna\u2019s delight. Now that\u2019s not very nice is it? Alice had automatically assumed that Lydia would follow the academic career as her two siblings had but obviously it was not to be. And then after making a few serious errors such as forgetting a conference in Chicago; on another occasion Alice completely \u201clost\u201d the word \u201clexicon\u201d in her main speech; losing her way home whilst out running, to quote just a few examples. Also Alice is beginning to become moody which was not in her nature and she is worried about her memory, is often disoriented and she fears that she may be losing her mind. Surely that would disturb Alice who was so precise in her lifestyle, especially her work? Well naturally it did and she went and had tests, many tests, starting with her primary-care physician, who found nothing untoward, and so she asked to see a neurologist. By this time she was too disturbed and frightened to inform her husband. And the result? Early-onset Alzheimer\u2019s disease which is different to the older form as its cause usually has a strong genetic linkage and it manifests much earlier. She was positive for the PSI mutation. So the downward spiral in Alice\u2019s health begins and, of course, as her disease is genetically-linked, her three children come into the equation. Her daughter Anna is trying to become pregnant and both she and Tom have tests to see if they also have the mutation. Lydia declines. If it is positive for Anna, should she have children? It is resolved I\u2019m pleased to say. Well there\u2019s just pure drama after this. It\u2019s wonderful in fact. What did remain in my mind was that whenever the husband John is worried, he twirls his wedding ring several times. What does this mean? Is he thinking of until death do us part? Is he worried that his wife Alice\u2019s early-onset Alzheimer\u2019s at the age of fifty makes their future look rather grim? Does he feel sorry for Alice? Does he want an \u201cout\u201d? Well we\u2019ll never know what went on in his mind. All I can say before I go into overkill with this review is that I\u2019m cutting it short now. I\u2019m lost for words but I must stress that you must read this wonderful book! You\u2019ll actually feel a better person for doing that. Believe me! ...more Alice Howland is a fifty years old and is a psychology professor at Harvard University. Her career keeps her busy with teaching, speaking, engagements and plenty of research. She is married to John and they have three adult children who also lead busy lives. During Alice's busy schedules she starts to notice that she is having moments of forgetfulness. She puts this down to stress, lack of sleep or perhaps the start of menopause. As the weeks pass by things start to get worse so Alice makes an ap Alice Howland is a fifty years old and is a psychology professor at Harvard University. Her career keeps her busy with teaching, speaking, engagements and plenty of research. She is married to John and they have three adult children who also lead busy lives. During Alice's busy schedules she starts to notice that she is having moments of forgetfulness. She puts this down to stress, lack of sleep or perhaps the start of menopause. As the weeks pass by things start to get worse so Alice makes an appointment with her doctor. After numerous questions and tests Alice is diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's disease. Of course at first she can't believe it as she is only fifty years old. Once she tells her family they are just as shocked and think this must be a wrong diagnoses. But sadly it's not and they will all to face the fact that Alice is changing and becoming a different person which will be permanent. Over the next few years Alice participates in a trial for new medication, but her condition rapidly deteriorates and she becomes more confused, absent minded and lost. This is not only hard for Alice, but also for her loved ones as they try to cope from one day to the next. This is a very moving story which touched me very deeply. I have dealt with this debilitating disease quite a lot over the last few years and truly it is hard on everyone involved. This novel paints a portrait of how heartbreaking the disease of early onset Alzheimer's can be. It also gives us an understanding of what families go through and how it effects them. This is a very moving and emotional story and one in which will touch the hearts of many readers. I HIGHLY recommend this book and I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. ...more What a great heartfelt book. Takes you into the world of dementia and the frustrating lives of those with Alzheimer's, and at the same time, keeps you interested in the characters and plot unable to put the book down. Update: June 12, 2015 Finally watched the movie......thought book was so much better! I have never, in all my reading years, sobbed quite so much or ached as deeply as I did while reading Still Alice . I am sobbed out, hollowed out. My beloved Nanna was only diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in the last year or so and thus, the reading of this novel took on an even more personal meaning for me. Lisa Genova's expert and exquisite depiction of Alzheimer's disease (in Alice Howland's case - early onset) is riveting, enthralling, and breathtakingly tragic. This book reads as a thrille I have never, in all my reading years, sobbed quite so much or ached as deeply as I did while reading Still Alice . I am sobbed out, hollowed out. My beloved Nanna was only diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in the last year or so and thus, the reading of this novel took on an even more personal meaning for me. Lisa Genova's expert and exquisite depiction of Alzheimer's disease (in Alice Howland's case - early onset) is riveting, enthralling, and breathtakingly tragic. This book reads as a thriller; the tension only finally letting up for the harrowing sense of loss to set in. I am grief stricken for Alice, and for John and Anna and Tom and Lydia. For everything they ALL lost. And yet...love, always love, remains. *sob* My favourite quote from this immensely emotional story... \"My yesterdays are disappearing, and my tomorrows are uncertain, so what do I live for? I live for each day. I live in the moment. Some tomorrow soon, I'll forget that I stood before you and gave this speech. But just because I'll forget it some tomorrow, doesn't mean that I didn't live every second of it today. I will forget today but that doesn't mean today doesn't matter\" It breaks my heart to want to call this book \"unforgettable\"... *sob* ...more A beautifully written and heartbreaking story of a cognitive psychology professor who is diagnosed with early on-set Alzheimer's disease (at age 50). Dr. Alice Howland loves her job at Harvard University, she loves to run and travel, and she loves her husband and her three grown children. One day when she goes out for a run, she becomes confused and panicky after she doesn't recognize the street she's running on, even though she's lived in that area of downtown Boston for many years. Alice becom A beautifully written and heartbreaking story of a cognitive psychology professor who is diagnosed with early on-set Alzheimer's disease (at age 50). Dr. Alice Howland loves her job at Harvard University, she loves to run and travel, and she loves her husband and her three grown children. One day when she goes out for a run, she becomes confused and panicky after she doesn't recognize the street she's running on, even though she's lived in that area of downtown Boston for many years. Alice becomes fearful that something is medically wrong with her. I have recently watched the film and I think Julianne Moore did a brilliant job portraying Alice (she won an Oscar for it, rightfully so). I also felt the movie stayed faithful to the novel. Of course there was some small changes but nothing that really bothered me. I recommend reading \"Still Alice\" and then viewing the film afterwards. The novel is full of emotion. I loved the way Lisa Genova described a delicate and yet honest account of a woman who loses everything she has worked for to a cruel disease. This is a tearjerker, but it's not melodramatic or schmaltzy. I highly recommend it. Enjoy! ...more This was an amazing book. I can't believe it took me so long to read it! I think Lisa Genova does a wonderful job of portraying what Alzheimer's Disease would be like and how a person with Alzheimer's is still a person with wants, likes and dislikes. I felt for Alice and all the members of her family. I was so moved by this story that I cried in parts. There is a good balance between the science and facts about the disease and an actual storyline. I have a whole new understanding of the disease. This was an amazing book. I can't believe it took me so long to read it! I think Lisa Genova does a wonderful job of portraying what Alzheimer's Disease would be like and how a person with Alzheimer's is still a person with wants, likes and dislikes. I felt for Alice and all the members of her family. I was so moved by this story that I cried in parts. There is a good balance between the science and facts about the disease and an actual storyline. I have a whole new understanding of the disease. In the Q & A with Lisa Genova at the end of the book, I noticed that Lisa states Oliver Sacks is her inspiration (I love his writing as well). She also states a quote by him \"In examining disease, we gain wisdom about anatomy and physiology and biology. In examining the person with disease, we gain wisdom about life\" and this is what she was hoping to achieve in her writing. I think she nailed it. Highly recommend this book. ...more This book was very unsettling but I think it's a book everyone should read. I liked how it was written from the perspective of Alice. I think seeing her experience her memory loss through her eyes made it feel more realistic and left a stronger impact. Even though it was difficult to get through some parts, I like how she takes a gentle approach to the difficult topics. She enlightens the reader on the subject matter but also does an amazing job of expressing her characters\u2019 most candid thoughts This book was very unsettling but I think it's a book everyone should read. I liked how it was written from the perspective of Alice. I think seeing her experience her memory loss through her eyes made it feel more realistic and left a stronger impact. Even though it was difficult to get through some parts, I like how she takes a gentle approach to the difficult topics. She enlightens the reader on the subject matter but also does an amazing job of expressing her characters\u2019 most candid thoughts and feelings. I mostly listened to the audiobook but recommend reading this one instead because of all the dialogue. ...more 2.75 wasn't good but ok I bought this book in June of 2009, and since then I have picked it up or at least thought about reading it about 200 times. But every time, I couldn't do it. I knew it would hurt, and I knew it would scare me, and I knew it would make me feel like every little thing I forget or misplace, and every time I lose track of time or just fall into a daze while driving a route I take all the time and suddenly look up to realize I'm there, and have no memory of the getting there... I knew that this book I bought this book in June of 2009, and since then I have picked it up or at least thought about reading it about 200 times. But every time, I couldn't do it. I knew it would hurt, and I knew it would scare me, and I knew it would make me feel like every little thing I forget or misplace, and every time I lose track of time or just fall into a daze while driving a route I take all the time and suddenly look up to realize I'm there, and have no memory of the getting there... I knew that this book would make all of those things feel like omens and warning signs and I'd go into full on panic attack mode and convince myself that I'm not okay. And... in a way, it did those things. But, in a way, I think I also worked myself up into a pre-panic by assuming that that is how it would go. But the terror I felt when I initially started this book kind of waned as I progressed, even as Alice got worse and worse. That is not to say that this book was less traumatizing, because that is not at all the case - it was just less personally terrifying to me. I started to see less of myself in it the worse she got. The beginning was hard, when she'd lose a word here and there (which happens to me), or when she'd start looking for something and eventually forget what she was even looking for (which happens to me), etc. All of the little forgettings, the little symptoms of her mental decline, those were things that I could easily see in myself - even if they are perfectly normal - and they terrified me. But as her condition worsened, it got a bit easier for me in that aspect. Much, much harder to cope with emotionally, though. I have always had an overactive empathy gland, and man, it was geysering throughout this book. I could put myself in her position so easily, and the position of her family and friends, and the loss that they were all experiencing because of this just crushed me. It's been a long time since I've had to put a book aside and just fucking cry because of something I'd just read. I think the last book that affected me like that was Hurt Go Happy . That was a soul crusher, but it's one of those books that one can distance themselves from. Animal experimentation is cruel and horrifying... but it's not something that the average person might run into one day, completely unaware. Alzheimer's is one of those things that can sneak up and fuck over your life and the lives of everyone you love - and there's no ignoring or escaping it. And putting myself in the place of the people experiencing that was a brutal and exhausting and sometimes very rewarding experience. After I finished this book, I had to give myself a little breather. I took 15 minutes and just breathed and reflected on the story... and then I had to take a work call, so I had to focus on something else for 30 minutes after that. And now here I am, writing this review, and I'm okay. I didn't absorb Alzheimer's through my fingertips by holding the book for the better part of two days, nor did I trigger my brain to start its decline by reading about it. So I'm calm now, and I can think rationally about this book. Based on just the emotional content and concept, this would be a 5 star read for me. But, that's not all the book is. There were times when I really loved the style, the 3rd person limited narration, and how as the confusion and memory loss progressed, the story became more and more stilted and choppy and patchy. I loved the insight into Alice's thoughts and experiences without actually BEING in her head. I think a 1st person narration would have felt fake and too self-aware and too self-pitying, and I don't think that fit with Alice's personality or lifestyle. 3rd person limited was just the right amount of space for the story to be told well. But that being said, there were times when things felt a bit too clinical and a bit too cold. There was a lot of medical jargon thrown around, and a lot of the consultations felt like lectures and medicinal brochure information, rather than a human explaining things to another human, especially one with cognitive degeneration. Finally, I didn't really feel that I 100% clicked with any of the other characters in this book. I could empathize with them, but that's just me kind of projecting my feelings on to the base that they offer. There were some moments when I felt the characters as more than just a setpiece for Alice to lose - but on the whole, I never felt as close to them as I wanted to. I would have liked maybe a split narrative - to see things from their perspectives as well. Seeing only from the limited viewpoint of Alice's perspective, we have to draw a lot of conclusions and make a lot of assumptions about things, and she's not a reliable window through which to see them. The fact that they are all so brilliant and successful also made it a bit hard to identify with them as well. The average person isn't going to have Harvard scientist colleagues to quiz about the latest medical advancements in the mental health field. The average person is not going to be able to just leave their job on medical leave for a year before taking year on sabbatical, and not worry about money or what they'd have to give up to pay for prescriptions, etc. This aspect made it a bit harder for me to see this family as real people and I wish that there was more of an everyday person feel to the story. Yes, it is undoubtedly sad that this disease afflicts anyone, and cruel when that person identifies themselves by their education and knowledge, but the vast majority of people reading this wouldn't be able to identify with that kind of life, which could backfire and create distance between the reader and the story rather than sympathy. So, while, emotionally, this is a 5 star read, on a technical and characterization level, it's a 3 star read. Still, I'd absolutely recommend this book. It's not easy, and it's scary and heartwrenching, but it's worth it. ...more This book scared me. I'm just a few years away from the age that Alice was in this book. I felt her emotions as she realized that soon she would be a different person. I cried when she opened a file that she had sent herself and couldn't remember doing it. I don't want to say what the file contained and spoil the story. Heartwrenching and powerful book. Dear potential reader of Still Alice , You are considering reading this book for one or more reasons. Perhaps, a friend recommended it. Maybe you are hoping to learn more about Alzheimer's Disease. It might be you just want to know why everyone is talking about it. I don't know your reason(s), but if you want to know the answers to the following questions, read it. *Can genetic testing determine if you will get Alzheimer's? *Does Early-onset Alzheimer's differ from Alzheimer's Disease? *What is it li Dear potential reader of Still Alice , You are considering reading this book for one or more reasons. Perhaps, a friend recommended it. Maybe you are hoping to learn more about Alzheimer's Disease. It might be you just want to know why everyone is talking about it. I don't know your reason(s), but if you want to know the answers to the following questions, read it. *Can genetic testing determine if you will get Alzheimer's? *Does Early-onset Alzheimer's differ from Alzheimer's Disease? *What is it like to live with Alzheimer's physically? *What is it like to live with someone who has Alzheimer's? *How does it feel to have Alzheimer's? If you have even an inkling of curiosity regarding these questions, you must read Still Alice . What is clear is that Alzheimer's patients cognitive abilities may be impaired but not their humanity. Their dignity may be unknowingly compromised at times, but not their worthiness. After reading this book, I wish I could send one big hug to every person living with this disease and their caretakers. It was an emotionally powerful book (to me) as well as informative. Go now, before you forget. Pick up this book and read it now. Please trust me. You can thank me later. 4.5 stars ...more \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0647\u0648\u0644\u0646\u062f\u060c \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u062f \u0631\u0648\u0627\u0646\u0634\u0646\u0627\u0633\u06cc \u067e\u0646\u062c\u0627\u0647 \u0633\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0634\u06af\u0627\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u0648\u0627\u0631\u062f \u0645\u0628\u062a\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0632\u0648\u062f\u0631\u0633 \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u0648\u062f. \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u062a\u062f\u0631\u06cc\u0633 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u060c \u067e\u0698\u0648\u0647\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u060c \u062f\u0631 \u06a9\u0646\u0641\u0631\u0627\u0646\u0633 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0645\u062e\u062a\u0644\u0641 \u0633\u062e\u0646\u0631\u0627\u0646\u06cc \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f. \u0639\u0644\u0627\u0648\u0647 \u0628\u0631 \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u060c \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0650 \u0633\u0647 \u0641\u0631\u0632\u0646\u062f \u0627\u0633\u062a... \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0627 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0686\u06a9\u0627\u0631 \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u061f \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628\u060c \u0631\u0648\u0627\u06cc\u062a \u0645\u0648\u0627\u062c\u0647\u0647 \u06cc \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0648 \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062f\u0647 \u0627\u0634 \u0628\u0627 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0627\u0633\u062a. \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u0645\u0646 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f. \u062e\u0648\u0628 \u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0645 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0628\u0631 \u0641\u0631\u062f \u0648 \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062f\u0647 \u0686\u0647 \u062a\u0623\u062b\u06cc\u0631\u0627\u062a\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f. \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0647\u0645\u06cc\u0634\u0647 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc\u0645 \u0633\u0648\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0622\u06cc\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u062f \u0645\u0628\u062a\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0646 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u0627\u062f \u0645\u06cc \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f\u061f \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0646\u062f \u062c\u0627\u06cc \u062e\u0627\u0644\u06cc \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631\u0627\u062a \u0631\u0627 \u0627\u062d\u0633\u0627\u0633 \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u061f \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u062f\u0631 \u0627\u0628\u062a\u062f\u0627 \u0646\u0648\u0639 \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0647\u0648\u0644\u0646\u062f\u060c \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u062f \u0631\u0648\u0627\u0646\u0634\u0646\u0627\u0633\u06cc \u067e\u0646\u062c\u0627\u0647 \u0633\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0634\u06af\u0627\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u0648\u0627\u0631\u062f \u0645\u0628\u062a\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0632\u0648\u062f\u0631\u0633 \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u0648\u062f. \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u062a\u062f\u0631\u06cc\u0633 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u060c \u067e\u0698\u0648\u0647\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u060c \u062f\u0631 \u06a9\u0646\u0641\u0631\u0627\u0646\u0633 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0645\u062e\u062a\u0644\u0641 \u0633\u062e\u0646\u0631\u0627\u0646\u06cc \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f. \u0639\u0644\u0627\u0648\u0647 \u0628\u0631 \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u060c \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0650 \u0633\u0647 \u0641\u0631\u0632\u0646\u062f \u0627\u0633\u062a... \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0627 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0686\u06a9\u0627\u0631 \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u061f \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628\u060c \u0631\u0648\u0627\u06cc\u062a \u0645\u0648\u0627\u062c\u0647\u0647 \u06cc \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0648 \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062f\u0647 \u0627\u0634 \u0628\u0627 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0627\u0633\u062a. \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u0645\u0646 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f. \u062e\u0648\u0628 \u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0645 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0628\u0631 \u0641\u0631\u062f \u0648 \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062f\u0647 \u0686\u0647 \u062a\u0623\u062b\u06cc\u0631\u0627\u062a\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f. \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0647\u0645\u06cc\u0634\u0647 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc\u0645 \u0633\u0648\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0622\u06cc\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u062f \u0645\u0628\u062a\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0646 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u0627\u062f \u0645\u06cc \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f\u061f \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0646\u062f \u062c\u0627\u06cc \u062e\u0627\u0644\u06cc \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631\u0627\u062a \u0631\u0627 \u0627\u062d\u0633\u0627\u0633 \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u061f \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u062f\u0631 \u0627\u0628\u062a\u062f\u0627 \u0646\u0648\u0639\u06cc \u0627\u062d\u0633\u0627\u0633 \u06af\u0645\u06af\u0634\u062a\u06af\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u062f\u0631 \u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u062a \u0647\u0645\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u062d\u0633\u0627\u0633 \u0631\u0627 \u0647\u0645 \u0627\u0632 \u062f\u0633\u062a \u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0647\u062f. \u0639\u0644\u0627\u0626\u0645 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631\u0650 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af\u0650 \u0645\u0646\u060c \u062d\u062f\u0648\u062f \u062f\u0648\u0627\u0632\u062f\u0647 \u0633\u0627\u0644 \u067e\u06cc\u0634 \u0622\u0634\u06a9\u0627\u0631 \u0634\u062f. \u0627\u0648\u0627\u06cc\u0644 \u06a9\u0633\u06cc \u0627\u062d\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0644 \u0648\u062c\u0648\u062f \u0628\u06cc\u0645\u0627\u0631\u06cc \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u062f. \u0686\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u0647\u0631 \u0686\u0647 \u0631\u0627 \u0645\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u0627\u0647\u062f \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u0627\u062f \u0645\u06cc \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f \u0648 \u0647\u0631 \u0686\u0647 \u0631\u0627 \u0645\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u0627\u0647\u062f \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u061f \u0686\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0646\u0642\u062f\u0631 \u06af\u0632\u06cc\u0646\u0634\u06cc \u0639\u0645\u0644 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f\u061f \u0628\u0639\u062f\u060c \u0622\u0631\u0627\u0645 \u0622\u0631\u0627\u0645 \u0628\u06cc\u0645\u0627\u0631\u06cc \u067e\u06cc\u0634\u0631\u0641\u062a \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0627\u062f\u0648\u06cc\u0647 \u0648 \u0646\u0645\u06a9 \u063a\u0630\u0627 \u0631\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u0628\u0639\u062f\u062a\u0631 \u06a9\u0644\u0627\u064b \u067e\u062e\u062a\u0646 \u062e\u0648\u0631\u0634 \u0631\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u062a\u0627 \u062f\u0648 \u0633\u0647 \u0633\u0627\u0644\u060c \u0628\u0631\u0646\u062c \u062f\u0645 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0644\u062f \u0646\u0628\u0648\u062f \u062e\u0648\u0631\u0634 \u0628\u067e\u0632\u062f. \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u0627\u064b \u0628\u0644\u062f \u0646\u0628\u0648\u062f\u061f \u062f\u0648 \u0633\u0647 \u0633\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u062e\u0648\u0631\u0634 \u0646\u067e\u062e\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f\u060c \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0646\u0627\u06af\u0647\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u06cc\u06a9\u06cc \u0627\u0632 \u0646\u0648\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u062a\u0627\u0632\u0647 \u062f\u0627\u0645\u0627\u062f \u0634\u062f\u0647 \u0648 \u0639\u0631\u0648\u0633\u0634\u060c \u0642\u06cc\u0645\u0647 \u067e\u062e\u062a \u0628\u0647 \u0686\u0647 \u062e\u0648\u0634\u0645\u0632\u06af\u06cc! \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u0627\u064b \u0628\u0644\u062f \u0646\u0628\u0648\u062f\u061f \u0628\u0627\u0648\u0631 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u06cc\u0645. \u0627\u0644\u0628\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0639\u062f\u062a\u0631 \u06a9\u0647 \u06a9\u0627\u0631\u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0639\u0627\u062f\u06cc \u0631\u0648\u0632\u0645\u0631\u0647 \u0631\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u060c \u0628\u0627\u0648\u0631 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u06cc\u0645\u060c \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u062e\u0648\u062f\u0634 \u0647\u0631\u06af\u0632 \u0628\u0627\u0648\u0631 \u0646\u06a9\u0631\u062f \u0628\u06cc\u0645\u0627\u0631 \u0627\u0633\u062a. \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u062f \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0634\u06af\u0627\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u0648\u0627\u0631\u062f \u0628\u0648\u062f\u060c \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u0645\u0646 \u0633\u0647 \u06a9\u0644\u0627\u0633 \u0633\u0648\u0627\u062f \u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a. \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0628\u0647 \u0647\u0648\u06cc\u062a \u0647\u0631 \u062f\u0648 \u062d\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0646\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u062a\u062f\u0631\u06cc\u0633 \u0648 \u067e\u0698\u0648\u0647\u0634 \u0631\u0627 \u0627\u0632 \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0648 \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0646\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u067e\u062e\u062a \u0648 \u067e\u0632 \u0648 \u0645\u0647\u0631\u0628\u0627\u0646\u06cc \u0631\u0627 \u0627\u0632 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u06af\u0631\u0641\u062a. \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u0628\u0647 \u062f\u0633\u062a \u067e\u062e\u062a\u0634 \u0645\u0639\u0631\u0648\u0641 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u0648 \u0645\u0647\u0631\u0628\u0627\u0646\u06cc. \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0622\u0634\u067e\u0632\u06cc \u0631\u0627 \u0627\u0632 \u06cc\u0627\u062f\u0634 \u0628\u0631\u062f\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u0648 \u0644\u062c\u0628\u0627\u0632 \u0648 \u0628\u062f\u0628\u06cc\u0646 \u0648 \u067e\u0631\u062e\u0627\u0634\u06af\u0631\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f. \u0633\u0631 \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u062f\u0627\u062f \u0645\u06cc \u0632\u062f \u0648 \u0628\u0627 \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u062f\u0639\u0648\u0627 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0628\u0627\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a\u0646 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0632\u0628\u0627\u0646 \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f. \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u0645\u0646 \u0647\u0631\u06af\u0632. \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u0648\u0642\u062a \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0646 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0632\u0628\u0627\u0646 \u0646\u06cc\u0627\u0648\u0631\u062f. \u0627\u06af\u0631 \u0686\u06cc\u0632\u06cc \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u0627\u062f\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f\u06cc\u0645 \u06cc\u0627 \u0633\u0639\u06cc \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u06cc\u0645 \u06a9\u0645\u06a9\u0634 \u06a9\u0646\u06cc\u0645\u060c \u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0641\u062a \u0645\u06af\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0628\u0686\u0647 \u06cc \u062f\u0648 \u0633\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u0627\u0645\u061f \u062e\u0648\u062f\u0634 \u0622\u0634\u067e\u0632\u06cc \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f \u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u06a9\u0633 \u062f\u06cc\u06af\u0631\u06cc \u0647\u0645 \u0627\u062c\u0627\u0632\u0647 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u062f \u063a\u0630\u0627 \u0628\u067e\u0632\u062f. \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0631\u0627 \u062a\u0645\u06cc\u0632 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f \u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u06a9\u0633 \u062f\u06cc\u06af\u0631\u06cc \u0647\u0645 \u0627\u062c\u0627\u0632\u0647 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u062f. \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0631\u0633\u06cc\u062f \u06a9\u0633\u06cc \u062c\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u0631\u0627 \u062f\u0631 \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0628\u06af\u06cc\u0631\u062f. \u062e\u062f\u0645\u062a\u06a9\u0627\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0631\u0627 \u0627\u0632 \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0628\u06cc\u0631\u0648\u0646 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u062f\u0631 \u0645\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644 \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u06af\u0627\u0631\u062f \u06af\u0631\u0641\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f. \u0628\u0647 \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u06a9\u0633 \u0627\u0639\u062a\u0645\u0627\u062f \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a (\u062c\u0632 \u067e\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af\u0645) \u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0647\u0645\u06cc\u0646 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631 \u0627\u062c\u0627\u0632\u0647 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u062f \u06a9\u0645\u06a9\u0634 \u06a9\u0646\u06cc\u0645. \u0627\u0632 \u062f\u0633\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0646 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u0648 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0631\u0641\u062a \u0648 \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0631\u0633\u06cc\u062f \u0645\u0633\u0645\u0648\u0645\u0634 \u06a9\u0646\u06cc\u0645. \u0628\u0639\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u067e\u0631\u062e\u0627\u0634\u06af\u0631\u06cc \u0647\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u062a\u0642\u0644\u06cc\u0644 \u067e\u06cc\u062f\u0627 \u06a9\u0631\u062f \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u062a\u0627 \u0645\u062f\u062a \u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u06a9\u0633 \u0627\u0639\u062a\u0645\u0627\u062f \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a. \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af \u0647\u0645\u06cc\u0634\u0647 \u062f\u0631 \u0645\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644 \u062f\u0631\u062f \u06a9\u0645 \u0637\u0627\u0642\u062a \u0628\u0648\u062f\u060c \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0627\u0632 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631\u060c \u0628\u0627 \u062a\u0638\u0627\u0647\u0631 \u0628\u0647 \u0628\u06cc\u0645\u0627\u0631\u06cc \u062c\u0644\u0628 \u062a\u0648\u062c\u0647 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u06cc\u0627 \u0634\u0627\u06cc\u062f \u062a\u0648\u0647\u0645 \u062f\u0631\u062f \u0647\u0645 \u0627\u0632 \u0639\u0648\u0627\u0631\u0636 \u0628\u06cc\u0645\u0627\u0631\u06cc \u0628\u0648\u062f\u060c \u0645\u062b\u0644 \u062a\u0648\u0647\u0645 \u0628\u06cc\u0646\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0648 \u0634\u0646\u0648\u0627\u06cc\u06cc. \u0627\u0632 \u062f\u0631\u062f \u0645\u0641\u0627\u0635\u0644 \u0648 \u062f\u0633\u062a \u0648 \u067e\u0627 \u0648 \u06a9\u0645\u0631 \u0646\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u062f\u06a9\u062a\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0641\u062a \u0645\u0634\u06a9\u0644\u06cc \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f. \u06cc\u06a9 \u0628\u0627\u0631 \u0631\u0648\u06cc \u0632\u0645\u06cc\u0646 \u062e\u0648\u0627\u0628\u06cc\u062f\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f\u060c \u0631\u0641\u062a\u0645 \u0628\u06cc\u062f\u0627\u0631\u0634 \u06a9\u0646\u0645 \u06a9\u0647 \u0631\u0648\u06cc \u062a\u062e\u062a \u0628\u062e\u0648\u0627\u0628\u062f. \u0647\u0631 \u0686\u0647 \u062a\u06a9\u0627\u0646\u0634 \u062f\u0627\u062f\u0645 \u0648 \u0635\u062f\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0645 \u062a\u06a9\u0627\u0646 \u0646\u062e\u0648\u0631\u062f. \u062e\u06cc\u0644\u06cc \u062a\u0631\u0633\u06cc\u062f\u0645\u060c \u062e\u06cc\u0644\u06cc. \u06af\u0631\u06cc\u0647 \u0627\u0645 \u06af\u0631\u0641\u062a \u0648 \u0634\u0631\u0648\u0639 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0645 \u062f\u0627\u062f \u0632\u062f\u0646. \u0628\u0642\u06cc\u0647 \u06a9\u0647 \u062c\u0645\u0639 \u0634\u062f\u0646\u062f \u0632\u062f \u0632\u06cc\u0631 \u062e\u0646\u062f\u0647. \u062e\u0648\u062f\u0634 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u062e\u0648\u0627\u0628 \u0632\u062f\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f. \u0628\u0639\u062f \u062a\u0648\u0647\u0645 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0628\u06cc\u0646\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0648 \u0634\u0646\u0648\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0634\u0631\u0648\u0639 \u0634\u062f. \u0645\u06cc \u0631\u0641\u062a \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u0645\u0631\u062f\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0632 \u0631\u0648\u06cc \u062f\u06cc\u0648\u0627\u0631 \u067e\u0631\u06cc\u062f\u0647 \u062f\u0627\u062e\u0644 \u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646 \u0631\u0648\u06cc \u067e\u0644\u0647 \u0646\u0634\u0633\u062a\u0647\u060c \u0622\u0628 \u0645\u06cc \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f. \u0628\u0627 \u0635\u0646\u062f\u0644\u06cc \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u062e\u0627\u0644\u06cc \u062d\u0631\u0641 \u0645\u06cc \u0632\u062f. \u0628\u0627 \u0646\u06af\u0627\u0647\u0634 \u0645\u0633\u06cc\u0631 \u0631\u0641\u062a \u0648 \u0622\u0645\u062f \u0686\u06cc\u0632\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0631\u0627 \u062f\u0646\u0628\u0627\u0644 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0648\u062c\u0648\u062f \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a\u0646\u062f. \u062a\u0631\u0633\u0646\u0627\u06a9 \u0634\u062f\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f. \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0647\u0645 \u062a\u0648\u0647\u0645 \u0628\u06cc\u0646\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a. \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0633\u062a\u0646 \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0645\u06a9\u0627\u0646 \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f \u06cc\u06a9 \u062d\u0641\u0631\u0647 \u06cc \u0639\u0645\u06cc\u0642 \u062c\u0644\u0648\u06cc \u062f\u0631 \u062e\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0648\u062c\u0648\u062f \u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0634\u062f\u060c \u062c\u0644\u0648\u06cc \u062a\u0648\u0647\u0645 \u0628\u06cc\u0646\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u0631\u0627 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0631\u0641\u062a. \u0686\u0647 \u0628\u0631\u0633\u062f \u0628\u0647 \u062d\u0631\u0641 \u0632\u062f\u0646 \u0628\u0627 \u0635\u0646\u062f\u0644\u06cc \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u062e\u0627\u0644\u06cc. \u06a9\u0645 \u06a9\u0645 \u0632\u0645\u0627\u0646\u06cc \u0631\u0633\u06cc\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u06a9\u0633 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u0627\u062f \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f. \u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0627 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0645 \u0627\u0634\u062a\u0628\u0627\u0647 \u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0631\u0641\u062a. \u0628\u0639\u062f\u062a\u0631 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631 \u0628\u0648\u062f\u0646 \u0631\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u0628\u0647 \u067e\u0633\u0631\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0641\u062a \u0628\u0631\u0627\u062f\u0631. \u0628\u0647 \u067e\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af\u0645 \u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0641\u062a \u0639\u0645\u0648. \u062a\u0628\u062f\u06cc\u0644 \u0634\u062f\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u06a9 \u062f\u062e\u062a\u0631 \u06a9\u0648\u0686\u06a9. \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645 \u062d\u0631\u0641 \u0647\u0627 \u0648 \u067e\u0631\u062e\u0627\u0634\u06af\u0631\u06cc \u0647\u0627 \u062a\u0628\u062f\u06cc\u0644 \u0634\u062f \u0628\u0647 \u0633\u06a9\u0648\u0646 \u0648 \u0633\u06a9\u0648\u062a. \u0627\u0632 \u062c\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u062a\u06a9\u0627\u0646 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u0631\u062f. \u0627\u0632 \u0631\u0627\u0647 \u0631\u0641\u062a\u0646 \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0631\u0633\u06cc\u062f. \u0647\u0645\u06cc\u0634\u0647 \u062f\u0631 \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u0686\u0631\u062a \u0632\u062f\u0646 \u0628\u0648\u062f. \u0627\u06af\u0631 \u062d\u0648\u0627\u0633\u0645\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0628 \u0648 \u063a\u0630\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u0646\u0628\u0648\u062f\u060c \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0641\u062a \u062a\u0634\u0646\u0647 \u0627\u0645 \u06cc\u0627 \u06af\u0631\u0633\u0646\u0647. \u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a \u06a9\u0645 \u06a9\u0645 \u0645\u062d\u0648 \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u062f. \u062f\u0631 \u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u062a \u062d\u0631\u0641 \u0632\u062f\u0646 \u06cc\u0627\u062f\u0634 \u0631\u0641\u062a. \u0631\u0627\u0647 \u0631\u0641\u062a\u0646 \u06cc\u0627\u062f\u0634 \u0631\u0641\u062a. \u062a\u0642\u0631\u06cc\u0628\u0627 \u0634\u0634 \u0645\u0627\u0647 \u0627\u0633\u062a \u0628\u0644\u0639\u06cc\u062f\u0646 \u0631\u0627 \u0647\u0645 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0647. \u0645\u0646 \u0647\u0645\u06cc\u0634\u0647 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af\u0645 \u0631\u0627 \u0645\u0642\u0635\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0633\u062a\u0645. \u0641\u06a9\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u06af\u0631 \u0645\u062b\u0644\u0627\u064b \u0627\u0647\u0644 \u0645\u0637\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u06cc\u0627 \u062f\u0631\u0633 \u062e\u0648\u0627\u0646\u062f\u0647 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u0634\u062f. \u0641\u06a9\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u06af\u0631 \u0642\u0631\u0635 \u0647\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u0631\u0627 \u0645\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u0631\u062f\u060c \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u0634\u062f. \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0634\u062a\u0628\u0627\u0647 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0645. \u06cc\u06a9 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u062f \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0634\u06af\u0627\u0647\u060c \u06cc\u06a9 \u062c\u0631\u0627\u062d\u060c \u06cc\u06a9 \u0647\u0646\u0631\u0645\u0646\u062f \u0648 ... \u0647\u0645 \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0628\u062a\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0634\u0648\u062f. \u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0627\u0646\u0633\u062a\u0645 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u062f\u0631\u0645\u0627\u0646 \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f\u060c \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0632 \u0647\u0645 \u0633\u0631\u0632\u0646\u0634\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0645. \u0634\u0627\u06cc\u062f \u0628\u0647 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631 \u06a9\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0646\u0647 \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u0628\u0647 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0648\u060c \u06a9\u0647 \u0628\u0647 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631\u0627\u062a \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u06cc \u0645\u0627 \u062d\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u06a9\u0631\u062f. \u06a9\u0645\u062a\u0631 \u06a9\u0633\u06cc \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0628\u0632\u0631\u06af\u0650 \u0645\u0647\u0631\u0628\u0627\u0646\u0650 \u062e\u0648\u0634 \u0642\u0644\u0628 \u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f. \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u062a\u0628\u062f\u06cc\u0644\u0634 \u06a9\u0631\u062f \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u06a9 \u0641\u0631\u062f \u0644\u062c\u0628\u0627\u0632\u0650 \u067e\u0631\u062e\u0627\u0634\u06af\u0631\u0650 \u0646\u0627\u0645\u0647\u0631\u0628\u0627\u0646 \u06a9\u0647 \u062a\u062d\u0645\u0644 \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u06a9\u0633 \u0631\u0627 \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f \u0648 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u0628\u06cc\u0634\u062a\u0631\u06cc\u0646 \u0686\u06cc\u0632\u06cc \u0633\u062a \u06a9\u0647 \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u0627\u0632 \u0627\u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u06cc\u0627\u062f \u062f\u0627\u0631\u06cc\u0645 \u0648 \u0645\u0642\u0635\u0631 \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0646\u0633\u062a\u0646 \u06a9\u0633\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u0647\u0645\u06cc\u0634\u0647 \u0627\u0630\u06cc\u062a \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0647\u060c \u06a9\u0627\u0631 \u0686\u0646\u062f\u0627\u0646 \u0622\u0633\u0627\u0646\u06cc \u0646\u06cc\u0633\u062a. \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633 \u062c\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u062f\u0631 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0622\u0631\u0632\u0648 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0628\u0647 \u062c\u0627\u06cc \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0633\u0631\u0637\u0627\u0646 \u062f\u0627\u0634\u062a. \u06a9\u0627\u0645\u0644\u0627\u064b \u062f\u0631\u06a9\u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u0645. \u062d\u062f\u0627\u0642\u0644 \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u0648\u062f \u0628\u0627 \u0633\u0631\u0637\u0627\u0646 \u062c\u0646\u06af\u06cc\u062f. \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u062c\u0646\u06af\u06cc\u062f\u0646 \u0628\u0627 \u0622\u0644\u0632\u0627\u06cc\u0645\u0631 \u0633\u0648\u062f\u06cc \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0631\u062f. \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u06cc\u06a9 \u0646\u0641\u0631 \u06cc\u06a9 \u0633\u0627\u0644 \u0637\u0648\u0644 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0634\u062f\u060c \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u06cc\u06a9 \u0646\u0641\u0631 \u062f\u0648\u0627\u0632\u062f\u0647 \u0633\u0627\u0644. \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u0634 \u06cc\u06a9\u06cc \u0633\u062a. \u062f\u0631 \u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u062a \u0647\u0631 \u0686\u0647 \u062f\u0631 \u0632\u0646\u062f\u06af\u06cc \u0627\u062a \u0628\u0647 \u062f\u0633\u062a \u0622\u0648\u0631\u062f\u0647 \u0627\u06cc \u06cc\u0627 \u062a\u062c\u0631\u0628\u0647 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0647 \u0627\u06cc\u060c \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645 \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0646\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0647\u0627\u060c \u0645\u0647\u0627\u0631\u062a \u0647\u0627 \u0648 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631\u0627\u062a \u0631\u0627 \u0627\u0632 \u062f\u0633\u062a \u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0647\u06cc. \u062f\u0642\u06cc\u0642\u0627\u064b \u0628\u0631\u0639\u06a9\u0633 \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628\u060c \u0647\u0646\u0648\u0632 \u0632\u0646\u062f\u0647 \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0646\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u06cc\u0633. \u0647\u06cc\u0686 \u06a9\u0633. ...more Read a book that made you cry. This was really a beautiful book. And I am so full of emotion and tears, and feels and OH MY FREAKING GOD WHAT HAS THIS BOOK DONE TO ME? I read Genova's other book Left Neglected a few years ago, and while I remember enjoying it, it in no way made any sort of lasting impression on me. Still Alice is about a woman who is dealing with early onset Alzheimer's Disease. And that is probably one of the most tragic things that can happen to a person. At one point, Alice beg Read a book that made you cry. This was really a beautiful book. And I am so full of emotion and tears, and feels and OH MY FREAKING GOD WHAT HAS THIS BOOK DONE TO ME? I read Genova's other book Left Neglected a few years ago, and while I remember enjoying it, it in no way made any sort of lasting impression on me. Still Alice is about a woman who is dealing with early onset Alzheimer's Disease. And that is probably one of the most tragic things that can happen to a person. At one point, Alice begins wishing that she had been diagnosed with cancer. Because with cancer, at least she had something to fight, something to battle, options for treatment. Alzheimer's is a death sentence. And the worst kind of death imaginable. And while a bald head and a looped ribbon were seen as badges of courage and hope, her reluctant vocabulary and vanishing memories advertised mental instability and impending insanity. Those with cancer could expect to be supported by their community. Alice expected to be outcast. Even the well intentioned and educated tended to keep a fearful distance from the mentally ill. She didn't want to become something people avoided and feared. Alzheimer's disease is a subject that hits a little close to home, and for that reason alone, I'm really glad I read this novel. I loved the way it was written, from Alice's perspective. Each chapter is a month of her life and the reader is forced to see everything from Alice's point of view, seeing how the disease is affecting her mind. Had the perspective been from an outsider, it would be no different than seeing Alzheimer's disease from a normal, spectator's point of view. Seeing it from Alice's perspective gave me so much empathy for her character, and it made me see the disease in a totally different way. Of course we all know the symptoms of Alzheimer's, but reading this book will make you understand what its like to see your mind, your family, your whole life just disappear, never to return. And also to know you have no control. That's probably the hardest part. Anywhoo, I don't want to go into more detail about the plot, because really, we all kind of know what this book is about. I think one of the things that touched and affected me the most, was the extremely realistic, and sometimes heartbreaking portrayal of Alice and John's marriage. As everyone knows, I tend to avoid romance like the plague because I'm old and cynical and don't believe in TRUE WUV. But this marriage, the way it is portrayed in this book, scared me. It may have scared the cynic right out of my skin. Because it is really REAL. And the fact remains that everyone is in love and has a great relationship until something really bad and tragic happens. And then the test begins. And then shit gets real. Let's be honest. You are married to your partner. Your intellectual equal. And then that person gets diagnosed with a crippling disease that destroys the very thing you fell in love with. The mind. And the diagnosis comes about 20-30 years earlier than you would expect. Your life is obviously going to change. And the way you cope and deal with that change is ultimately going to test your resolve, and your core as a human being. I enjoyed reading about Alice's life, but my heart broke as her marriage changed, and her husband, supposedly her rock, became distant and cold. And my heart broke because that's real life, people. Human beings can be shitty and stupid and do horrible things sometimes. And any book or film or TV show that portrays either a man or woman being the perfect saint of a human being while watching their partner dissolve in front of them is just plain old lying. This book made me really delve into my subconscious to uncover certain qualities I would want in a mate that I wouldn't ordinarily think of. Something like, if I were to get really sick, could you really take care of me? Will I really be the most important thing to you? More than money? Than your career? Than your own mind? Will you still love me if I begin to interfere with your plans for your life even if I can't help it? Some people will say yes to all of the above. Some people just don't have it in them. I highly recommend this book. Its a quick and easy read, and the information you will get out of it is so important, not only if you are dealing with a loved one with this disease, but for any human being looking for more compassion and empathy. 4 stars. ...more Hands down one of my favourite books on mental health ever. To this day, I still consider Still Alice to be Genova's most outstanding work. Still Alice is a perfect balance between fiction and science. Genova's writing is wonderful to read, and she breaks down hardcore neuroscience to a comfortable and understandable level. Her characters are engaging, especially Alice. The plot is quite gripping despite the obvious direction the story is going to take as Alice's mental health declines and her me Hands down one of my favourite books on mental health ever. To this day, I still consider Still Alice to be Genova's most outstanding work. Still Alice is a perfect balance between fiction and science. Genova's writing is wonderful to read, and she breaks down hardcore neuroscience to a comfortable and understandable level. Her characters are engaging, especially Alice. The plot is quite gripping despite the obvious direction the story is going to take as Alice's mental health declines and her memory circles the drain. Genova being a neuroscientist really helps making Alice and her suffering believeable. In addition, I loved how the story didn't change point of view, even when hers became more difficult to write with her progressing Alzheimer's. However, it wasn't the prose, the setting, the plot nor the characters that really made this book earn its 5th star - it was the message the book held, spreading a feeling of hope. Not hope for a cure (we have yet to even fully understand the exact reasons behind early-onset Alzheimer's, unfortunately), but hope that, though our memory can be taken away from us by dysfunctional mechanisms in our brain, we are still able to love and be loved. Because even in tragedy, there is beauty to be found through a family's love. But will I always love her? Does my love for her reside in my head or my heart? The scientist in her believed that emotion resulted from complex limbic brain circuitry that was for her, at this very moment, trapped in the trenches of a battle in which there would be no survivors. The mother in her believed that the love she had for her daughter was safe from the mayhem in her mind, because it lived in her heart. Still Alice is a tragic yet beautiful novel about early-onset Alzheimer's disease. This difficult and scary topic was handled with great care and expertise. Keep tissues nearby. ...more Still Alice was undoubtedly an excellent book and one I would recommend to everyone. It truly gives you a lot of insight into the mind of someone living with Alzheimer's and you can tell extensive research went into it, both from an emotional and scientific perspective. The writing style was very simplistic and sometimes didn't flow very well which bothered me at points, but at the same time I also believe that this was the only writing style fitting for the story. It reminded me a bit of Little Still Alice was undoubtedly an excellent book and one I would recommend to everyone. It truly gives you a lot of insight into the mind of someone living with Alzheimer's and you can tell extensive research went into it, both from an emotional and scientific perspective. The writing style was very simplistic and sometimes didn't flow very well which bothered me at points, but at the same time I also believe that this was the only writing style fitting for the story. It reminded me a bit of Little Peach in that way (even if the content was completely different). I did see the movie before reading the book and I'm glad to say that I ended up enjoying this book more than the movie (despite the fact that I adore Julianne Moore). The movie was well done, but a visual medium just doesn't lend itself as well to capturing the intense emotional turmoil involved with such an illness. As I said, I highly recommend this little novel to everyone. It's a difficult read at times but will ultimately leave you satisfied and stay with you for long after you turn the last page. ...more", "Title": "Still Alice"},
