{"Comments": "When I was first offered <+++>The Elephant Tree</+++> for review, I didn't quite know what to think. I really liked the cover and I thought it might be interesting but that's about it. Then I started reading and it's mostly about drug dealers and that's not really up my alley given my prudish upbringing. Turns out, I'm really glad I read it. <+++>The Elephant Tree</+++> is Ronald's debut and I have to say I'm really impressed. That's not to say this was a perfect book. It is a little disjointed in parts and some of the When I was first offered The Elephant Tree for review, I didn't quite know what to think. I really liked the cover and I thought it might be interesting but that's about it. Then I started reading and it's mostly about drug dealers and that's not really up my alley given my prudish upbringing. Turns out, I'm really glad I read it. The Elephant Tree is Ronald's debut and I have to say I'm really impressed. That's not to say this was a perfect book. It is a little disjointed in parts and some of the foreshadowing/set-up is a little confusing and the blurb on the back is kind of misleading. It talks about a character that has maybe 5 pages total involvement as if he's a main character. Other than that, I was really attached to the actual main characters,<---M> Scott and Angela</---M>, and the plot definitely threw me for some loops. Scott is a drug dealer with bigger plans, but stuck in a rut and Angela is a drug dealer's daughter who's lived with it all her life. They both want more from life, but don't quite know how to get there. The majority of the book, we follow Scott around through his life. He smokes weed, smokes a cigarette, drinks a pint, smokes more weed, rinse and repeat. This goes on for quite a while and I hate to bring up another negative point, because I really did like this book, but it was a bit ridiculous how much of a focus this book has on the above. Then again, that's a culture I'm completely unaware of and I have to admit it gives you a good sense of the lives of these characters and what they revolve around. Scott has always been talking about leaving the drug dealing life and moving up and finally he's offered a chance to do just that. His friend Twinkle (nickname) has an \"easy\" job lined up and it would make them a lot of money. Of course this gets them in with a boss in town and that kind of relationship is not too easy to break. The Elephant Tree is definitely worth the read. There are great characters, a great plot, and everything just fits together in a great timeline with a great pace. Why Should You Read The Elephant Tree? Our society is very interested in drug culture. Almost every movie you watch has at least a reference to drugs if not the plethora that actually revolve around drug dealing. Blow and Half Baked are the first that come to mind. The Elephant Tree was written by someone who has experienced this (it was mostly written from prison) and after reading it, I feel like I have a much better understanding of what goes on.<---F> Recommended</---F>. 3.5 out of 5 Stars ...more The Elephant Tree is a story of a man trying to escape from his own tedious life, initially seeming unconcerned by committing illegal acts, but when presented with the consequences and potential repercussions of some more serious circumstances, forced to question who he is and what he really believes in. A pretty dark and challenging book, but equally as exciting and rewarding. The book itself is semi-lengthy, easy to read and cleverly written from three different POVs. Those POVs allowed me to r The Elephant Tree is a story of a man trying to escape from his own tedious life, initially seeming unconcerned by committing illegal acts, but when presented with the consequences and potential repercussions of some more serious circumstances, forced to question who he is and what he really believes in. A pretty dark and challenging book, but equally as exciting and rewarding. The book itself is semi-lengthy, easy to read and cleverly written from three different POVs. Those POVs allowed me to really get a feel for the life and mentality of each of the central characters. Detective Fallon, Angela and Scott were all memorable and I found myself empathizing with the miscreants, Scott and Angela. The Elephant Tree is an entertaining criminological thriller that kept me fully engaged. I really enjoyed it and believe others who like dark, suspenseful and psychological stories will as well. ...more Criminological Thriller at its best. One of the books I would recommend to thriller fans. Plot : Scott, a drug dealer. Angela is a drug dealer's daughter. They want to get out of this bad-bad world. Scott and Angela give you a great time telling their versions. In one way, I enjoyed knowing about the routine of people involved with drug business. It was entertaining and new for my taste. Scott gets an opportunity to come out of it, will he leave the path and go for what his heart speaks? That you'v Criminological Thriller at its best. One of the books I would recommend to thriller fans. Plot : Scott, a drug dealer. Angela is a drug dealer's daughter. They want to get out of this bad-bad world. Scott and Angela give you a great time telling their versions. In one way, I enjoyed knowing about the routine of people involved with drug business. It was entertaining and new for my taste. Scott gets an opportunity to come out of it, will he leave the path and go for what his heart speaks? That you've to figure out. Writing Style : Not only crime fiction is there, but romance and family blends themselves pretty nicely. I've done my best not giving you any spoilers for this one. The author has definitely broken up all the stereotypes. You might like this theme or you might not, but you certainly can't deny the quality of this writing. This debut novel impressed and astonished me. It was an amazing experience sitting on a sofa watching the characters develop in their own time. I would want to read more of the author's future work. Suggested For : If you're the person who likes dark, mysterious, suspenseful thriller, don't think much. Go for it man! ...more The Elephant Tree was a very compelling book from start to end.It was a great read. Characters that could easily jump out of the pages and become real people and quick pace. The twist at the end was perfect. While not as dark as I was anticipating it didn't lessen my experience with the book. I see great things from the author in the future. Overall: Gripping psychological thriller! Recommended? Yes! To everyone who loves thrillers and suspense, with a depth. Great book, keeps you on the edge of your seat, trying to anticipate what will happen next. the kind of book that consumes your mind even when not reading. its a must read!! The Elephant Tree was a very compelling book from start to end. It was fast-paced - I couldn't wait to see what happens next. Yet this book is different from all the thrillers I have read because it offers more than just adrenaline rush. The author keeps you intrigued through the various twists and turns. Despite the setting being the world of drug dealers and criminals, you can't help but sympathize with the characters. Scott and Angela were very likeable characters. I genuinely felt for them.Bo The Elephant Tree was a very compelling book from start to end. It was fast-paced - I couldn't wait to see what happens next. Yet this book is different from all the thrillers I have read because it offers more than just adrenaline rush. The author keeps you intrigued through the various twists and turns. Despite the setting being the world of drug dealers and criminals, you can't help but sympathize with the characters. Scott and Angela were very likeable characters. I genuinely felt for them.Both of them were stuck in a world where they don't really belong. The Elephant Tree is a well-written and original novel with an engrossing plot. Moreover there is more depth to it , than might be apparent for the first time. Though this is one of those books which sucks you in right from the fist page, it also takes a step away from the usual whodunnits. Its hard to believe that this is the author's first novel. The ending was really unexpected and despite the huge amount of suspense novels I have read, it still managed to take me by surprise. Overall: Gripping psychological thriller! Recommended? Yes! To everyone who loves thrillers and suspense, with a depth. ...more suspenseful Couldn't put this book down. Really easy read. Well crafted crime mystery novel with a raw flavor to the details that makes it all feel more real and really gets you hooked. Loved this book so much I went on to read the author's second novel 'The Zombie Room'. Also a good read. <---A>R.D. Ronald</---A> is known for his rocky relationship with the law. His work is inspired by the time he spent in prison for drug distribution, having grown weed for his wife to help her with her battle with cancer. It's an inte Couldn't put this book down. Really easy read. Well crafted crime mystery novel with a raw flavor to the details that makes it all feel more real and really gets you hooked. Loved this book so much I went on to read the author's second novel 'The Zombie Room'. Also a good read. R.D. Ronald is known for his rocky relationship with the law. His work is inspired by the time he spent in prison for drug distribution, having grown weed for his wife to help her with her battle with cancer. It's an interesting story. His writing reflects the plight of working class people getting in to sticky situations just trying to make ends meet, and survive.... the authenticity of this story and the characters I think stem from his experiences, and it really makes a big difference for me as a reader. I highly recommend this book! ...more If you read my recent review of The Zombie Room, you will know that I bought The Elephant Tree on a recent visit to the UK where I was lucky enough to meet the author himself. This book, like The Zombie Room was excellent and I would absolutely recommend that you read both R.D. Ronald's books and anything else the author writes as you will not be disappointed. Both The Zombie Room and The Elephant Tree are great books! Initially I wasn\u2019t sure what to expect from The Elephant Tree and only bought the ebook because it was cheap but how glad I am that I did. I think this is the modern day equivalent of the bargain bin books I used to find hidden gems in when I was a kid. It\u2019s difficult to describe the certain elements of intrigue in The Elephant Tree without giving away any spoilers, but I will say that this is far more than your typical case of crime fiction \u2013 police procedural coupled with predictable clich\u00e9d r Initially I wasn\u2019t sure what to expect from The Elephant Tree and only bought the ebook because it was cheap but how glad I am that I did. I think this is the modern day equivalent of the bargain bin books I used to find hidden gems in when I was a kid. It\u2019s difficult to describe the certain elements of intrigue in The Elephant Tree without giving away any spoilers, but I will say that this is far more than your typical case of crime fiction \u2013 police procedural coupled with predictable clich\u00e9d romance then tied off in a bow at the end. There is a lot of depth to the character arcs and better plot development than you\u2019d expect in this type of novel. The interwoven storylines get better still as you progress through the book without ever feeling contrived as an excuse to squeeze in more chapters. I\u2019m not typically someone who is drawn to this kind of book, but I did love this and will seek out more by R D Ronald in the future. I\u2019d certainly recommend this to fans of crime or thrillers in general, but don\u2019t expect the same ride that you\u2019re used to. Full marks from me for daring to break the mold on what I had considered to be a bit of a stuffy genre. ...more The Elephant Tree glows, both literally in the story and as a story itself. It is only accentuated further by the dark travails of a drug dealer that the story centres upon. The pace is reasonably quick and the tone embedded deep within the contours of that streetside bar. And with that begins the story\u2019s uniqueness. Authors mould their inspiration and ideas to yield stories of every genre and walks of life. Yet, at most times, they are all limited in their depth by a simple fact - they did not a The Elephant Tree glows, both literally in the story and as a story itself. It is only accentuated further by the dark travails of a drug dealer that the story centres upon. The pace is reasonably quick and the tone embedded deep within the contours of that streetside bar. And with that begins the story\u2019s uniqueness. Authors mould their inspiration and ideas to yield stories of every genre and walks of life. Yet, at most times, they are all limited in their depth by a simple fact - they did not actually live through the tale. This compels the plot to resort to a minutest sense of aloofness in its third person narrative. It is an observation, not an experience, after all. Not so for Mr. Richard. His story leads us on the footpath of a man - Scott - in the thick of con as if we were literally walking right behind him. And thus, the narrative breaks down the first barrier, but keeps us guessing as to the next - the motive. As Scott points out to justify his drug dealing, more people die every year from falling off a horse while horse riding while there are other forms of gradual, invisible murder that we are not even aware of - such as the unknown \u201cstuff in our food\u201d or \u201cmobile phone radiations\u201d. So, really, must we worry about some petty hallucinogen or just enjoy the story? The author gives us the answer, but only after he has made us use our options A, B and C. Mr. Ronald has a way of keeping us warm as he trudges through his story. With much standing on the very edge of our conscience, he knows the importance of his book\u2019s companionship when he reminds us that solitude always leads to retrospective thinking, and if the past is what one is trying to get away from, then constant distractions in the present are needed. But that inevitably leads us to question the nature of present itself. Enter, The Elephant Tree - a bark with faces of an elephant and a man upon it, depending on which side one looks at it from. The metaphor is used here to highlight, inevitably, a good side and a bad side. Which one does which brings out both the fragments of our psyche and the author\u2019s motive. \u201cWhat is special about the elephants?\u201d one character asks. \u201cPhysical and mental strength,\u201d comes the reply. The protagonist is gradually, though teasingly, led into a web that spirals down and away with time. Characters get pulled in, some wither off, others survive. Who is behind the play and with what purpose remains unknown and off our radar. But we witness a continuous reminder of the real addiction that we bear to \u201cambition\u201d and \u201cgrowth\u201d - one we often use more as a justification for acts of adrenaline than for reasonable action. So the only way out is not through some mystic twist of fate but through a balanced chain of thought. Like all good mysteries, the story reveals its truth only in the last chapter. But The Elephant Tree does it with a sense of difficult acceptance looming as a hangover due to the constancy of drugged-innuendo that has persisted throughout the novel. And only as you reach the very final third of the final chapter that the story truly reaches its closure - with a sudden and most unexpected lift off that leaves you with hope and strength renewed. Mr. Ronald understands that revelations in a good story are not just about \u201cwho did it\u201d or \u201cwhy\u201d but also about \u201cwhat it leads to.\u201d Right there is the author\u2019s genius and depth. Right there is the saga\u2019s soul. ...more I must admit, I was dubious starting this book as it isn't usually my scene. Once I started reading it, however, my mind was changed. The characters have a very real feel to them and you feel like part of the story almost instantaneously. The book has an amazing empathetic mood to it and as well as having those everyday life and happy moments, it has sad bits that really draw out your emotion. Even if you are easily upset by tear-jerking stories, (like myself), I would recommend this book as It I must admit, I was dubious starting this book as it isn't usually my scene. Once I started reading it, however, my mind was changed. The characters have a very real feel to them and you feel like part of the story almost instantaneously. The book has an amazing empathetic mood to it and as well as having those everyday life and happy moments, it has sad bits that really draw out your emotion. Even if you are easily upset by tear-jerking stories, (like myself), I would recommend this book as It is seriously worth the read! ...more loved it! it is full of great characters and the plot is oddly compelling. for a first book, or even for an experienced novelist it would be really good. i recommend it for anyone looking for something they just can't put down! also, the author has a website where you can catch interviews with the author and other interesting clips and information. Although this genre is not my usual cup of tea (it's sort of clubland meets gangland) I thoroughly enjoyed this book and couldn't put it down from the part where Scott and Twinkle do their job. Well worth a read!! Did not expect! Dark and disturbing. very good book When I saw this book I was really curious to read it ,because of its interesting cover .As soon as I saw the book cover it caught my attention. This story is different from all the books I have read because it offers more than just adrenaline rush. The author keeps you intrigued through the various twists and turns. Despite the setting being the world of drug dealers and criminals, you can't help but sympathize with the characters. Scott and Angela were very likeable characters. I honestly felt f When I saw this book I was really curious to read it ,because of its interesting cover .As soon as I saw the book cover it caught my attention. This story is different from all the books I have read because it offers more than just adrenaline rush. The author keeps you intrigued through the various twists and turns. Despite the setting being the world of drug dealers and criminals, you can't help but sympathize with the characters. Scott and Angela were very likeable characters. I honestly felt for them ,both of them were stuck in a world where they don't really belong. The Elephant Tree is a well-written and original novel with an engrossing plot. Moreover there is more depth to it , than might be apparent for the first time. Though this is one of those books which sucks you in right from the fist page, it also takes a step away from the usual brainteaser. Its hard to believe that this is the author's first novel. The ending was really unexpected and despite the huge amount of suspense stories I have read, it still managed to take me by surprise. ...more My only fault with this book is that I simply didn\u2019t want to put it down in between sittings, which was a tad problematic at bedtime,...it wasn\u2019t a book I had chosen myself to read and probably wouldn\u2019t have if it hadn\u2019t been recommended to me. I can honestly say it has set the bar for my future expectations!!! it has all the aspects I crave from a book, good characterisation, with a punchy storyline and disappointment of the last page perfection...... :) I have to say though for a first published My only fault with this book is that I simply didn\u2019t want to put it down in between sittings, which was a tad problematic at bedtime,...it wasn\u2019t a book I had chosen myself to read and probably wouldn\u2019t have if it hadn\u2019t been recommended to me. I can honestly say it has set the bar for my future expectations!!! it has all the aspects I crave from a book, good characterisation, with a punchy storyline and disappointment of the last page perfection...... :) I have to say though for a first published novel, I am amazed!!!.....and am now more than looking forward to reading more stuff from Mr. Ronald :) And I highly recommend it!!!!! ...more my review here. The book was intriguing starting with the cover and the story did not disappoint. I didn't want to put it down and didn't want it to end. Exciting to the finish The story keeps you interested from page one. The characters are interesting and a bit scary, but believable. Good read. I would recommend The Elephant Tree by R.D. Ronald to be a book for high school students an adults. This is a great book for people who enjoy reading about investigations. Good mystery/cop story. I enjoyed the characters and the plot. Dark and riveting tale of big city club/drug scene characters. Very good read. Cross-posted from pot fiction dot com. Moving at a deliberate pace, setting itself up for the more gripping second half, The Elephant Tree follows two solemn young people in a dismal, unnamed city. This is a dark book, full of seedy characters, filthy bars, the worst outcomes of the drug trade commonplace. Not a book for the light of heart! Some of the reviews that got me to buy the novel portrayed it as fast moving. I don\u2019t think that does the story justice: there are many purposeful \u201cslice of l Cross-posted from pot fiction dot com. Moving at a deliberate pace, setting itself up for the more gripping second half, The Elephant Tree follows two solemn young people in a dismal, unnamed city. This is a dark book, full of seedy characters, filthy bars, the worst outcomes of the drug trade commonplace. Not a book for the light of heart! Some of the reviews that got me to buy the novel portrayed it as fast moving. I don\u2019t think that does the story justice: there are many purposeful \u201cslice of life\u201d moments. But it kept my attention. I was finished in two days. Scott, one of two protagonists, struggles with a fractured family life and a desire to retire big on a lucrative job. Opposite him is Angela, whose life is tied intimately with Scott\u2019s, a decent foil for his gloominess. The drama shifts back and forth as the two characters battle inner demons and try to navigate the terrible circumstances around them. You get an assortment of low lifers, though few of them stuck with me. The Elephant Tree probably could have used some comic relief, just to ease the bubbling tension. While I\u2019m on criticism, some of the comma splices were strange, maybe a print-to-ebook artifact. It didn\u2019t take away from the story, though. About two thirds of the way through this, I had a dilemma. Was this pot fiction? I\u2019ve read plenty of books, but the main characters in this one always had a drink in hand, and the drugs were much heavier than the synopsis led me to believe. Weed seemed to fade into the background. You were getting a review of this book whether you liked it or not, but I was nervous. Ye of little faith rejoice, for cannabis becomes a major part of the plot. I enjoyed that aspect quite a bit. Continue on, pot fiction reader! This starts as a crime novel, but family and romance take the wheel as you get to know the main players. Weaved throughout is the police procedural you see in the synopsis, though that really takes a back seat to the two main characters, and that\u2019s a good thing in this case. All in all, I think this one is worth a bowl and a read! ...more Definitely not what I was expecting, but a great read nonetheless! It was a gripping story that left me on the edge of my seat several times, however I wasn't as captivated by the characters and descriptions as other books I have recently read. Overall, it was a nice break from my usual YA paranormal/dystopia and I would recommend it as a casual read. overated.If you were young,inexperienced,and not very worldly you would like this book. It made me laugh.Is this \"Young Adult Fiction\"?Be careful, there are \"cannabis\" sellers out there! Easy read; full of action. However, multiple spelling errors, inconsistencies and a poor ending made this story forgettable. The Elephant Tree was recommended to me by a fellow crime-thriller fan. Debut novels can be a little hit-and-miss as a writer finds his (or her) style. The Elephant Tree definitely sits in the category of HIT! The back of the book gives only a glimpse in to the plot and the seedy world occupied by well written, interesting characters. The plot is always exciting and leads you in a world of drug deals and violence, where you don't know who to trust. This is a fantastic thriller and one I'm sure I' The Elephant Tree was recommended to me by a fellow crime-thriller fan. Debut novels can be a little hit-and-miss as a writer finds his (or her) style. The Elephant Tree definitely sits in the category of HIT! The back of the book gives only a glimpse in to the plot and the seedy world occupied by well written, interesting characters. The plot is always exciting and leads you in a world of drug deals and violence, where you don't know who to trust. This is a fantastic thriller and one I'm sure I'll read again on a regular basis. ...more<---C>R.D. Ronald</---C>", "Title": "The Elephant Tree"},
