{"Comments": "I have read some good fiction lately, but this one is special like \"Catcher in the Rye\" or \"The Curious Incident\" or maybe \"The Kite Runner\". Instead of telling the story, I will make observations as to why I loved it: 1. Many historical fiction novels are written from the perspective of the thinking of the time. Although it is interesting to observe how people think people thought in the past, it can be a little too un-modern and sometimes boring, like reading \"Moby Dick\" or some other great, b I have read some good fiction lately, but this one is special like \"Catcher in the Rye\" or \"The Curious Incident\" or maybe \"The Kite Runner\". Instead of telling the story, I will make observations as to why I loved it: 1. Many historical fiction novels are written from the perspective of the thinking of the time. Although it is interesting to observe how people think people thought in the past, it can be a little too un-modern and sometimes boring, like reading \"Moby Dick\" or some other great, but somewhat over the top book. Here, we are set back in time by the grandson who is just like us,<---M> telling the story his grandfather tells him</---M>, but with language and interpretations that are how we think about things today. Instead of finding this tool to be unrealistic and too Hollywood modern, I found just the opposite. I felt like I really was back in time and I related to the characters like they were my best friends and buddies. I loved this approach to history telling. 2. The primary relationship in the book is between a shy, 17 year old Jewish boy who is intelligent, clever, educated and a great story teller. There is a running dialogue in his head describing his sometimes ridiculous and unimportant thoughts and observations as life threatening things are occurring. His older buddy is a young \"man of the world\" a college boy who is experienced with women, a writer and philosopher, a handsome and sometimes arrogant guy. He puts his arm around his younger shy friend's shoulder and starts to teach him about wine women and song. It is a touching and fun relationship that works as well as any friendship relationship I've ever read. The observations of the younger as to the older's sometimes graphic and raunchy statements and experiences are absolutely brilliant and spot on. This is how life and relationships really work and the author has been able to convey these experiences in a way that makes us relive similar things in our lives as older kids taught us about what really goes on in the adult world and we're half thinking it's a lie and half believing it, yet shaking our heads. I can't think of a book I've read that does this kind of coming of age relationship as well. 3. Because the story moves fast and is more about relationships and internal observations, you would think that the history of the time is secondary. However, the story gives us a very realistic feeling of how it must have been to be suffering through the invasion of the Germans into Leningrad in the horrible cold of the winter without much good food or shelter or equipment. There is a lot of good information about the cold and calculated way of the Nazis and the underfunded and yet heroic attempts of the Russian people to fend them off. And yet, as important as the historical setting of the book is, the thing that makes it work well is the commentary and thoughts of our two friends and eventually heroes. 4. There are many other great characters in the book from the brilliant and interesting Nazi leader, an intense and talented young female sniper, and the spoiled and wealthy man who sends them on their ridiculously trivial mission in the first place. This book is the reason you read fiction. ...more \u201dHow could you fear anything more than death? Everything else offered moments of escape: a paralyzed man could still read Dickens; a man in the grips of dementia might have flashes of the most absurd beauty.\u201d <---C>Lev Beniov</---C> wants to live. He may not be clear about anything else, but he knows that to be true. Life becomes more precious when being anywhere, not just in the wrong place, but just existing in space, can turn into a death trap at any moment. When his mother and sister fled the city he decid \u201dHow could you fear anything more than death? Everything else offered moments of escape: a paralyzed man could still read Dickens; a man in the grips of dementia might have flashes of the most absurd beauty.<---F>\u201d Lev Beniov wants to live</---F>. He may not be clear about anything else, but he knows that to be true. Life becomes more precious when being anywhere, not just in the wrong place, but just existing in space, can turn into a death trap at any moment. When his mother and sister fled the city he decided to stay. Now he is caught up in one of the worst sieges in the history of the world, he is in Leningrad or as I always think of it St. Petersburg. Lev is seventeen years old. Because it is mostly a city of islands, Leningrad was isolated from the rest of the Soviet Union by the Nazis\u2019 control or destruction of its bridges. When I went to Google the siege of Leningrad to brush up on the events that provided the background for this novel I was slightly taken aback when all I had to do was put in SIEGE and BAM there was Leningrad. The Germans made the decision, instead of going street by street and house by house, to just starve the citizens and remaining soldiers out of the city. They put a ring of soldiers around the perimeter of the city so that no one can come in and no one can come out. The staggering results are the deaths of two million Russian soldiers and civilians. \u201dI was built for deprivation.\u201d We\u2019ve all maybe been a bit hungry, but many of us cocooned in a civilized world where food is plentiful and relatively cheap may not remember the last time we had a hunger pain. Lev and the remaining people of Leningrad have went beyond hungry to near starvation. People are dying daily because now there is no cushion of calories between them and dying. One day without some type of food intake will be...the final day. It is almost like a gift from God, if Lev believed in such a person, to see the German paratrooper, frozen to death, drift down from the sky. Lev and his friends pounce on the body ransacking pockets finding food, a nice Damascus blade, and a flask of cognac or maybe schnapps how could they know the difference? But it spreads a warmth through their bodies like a hot meal or a roaring fire. They take too long, a crucial loss of focus. Maybe it is the bonanza of food and booze that makes them forget for a moment that they are vulnerable out in the open. The soldiers are on them quickly and there is a mad scramble for safety. Lev is caught. He is shocked they didn\u2019t execute him for looting immediately. He has seen it happen before. He is thrown into a cell and there he meets Kolya who is also in dire trouble. He is charged with desertion and they didn\u2019t execute him either. This isn\u2019t a time for trials or due process. Shooting someone is just one less mouth to feed. The rules are maddeningly unpredictable. It is always best to assume the worst. Now Kolya didn\u2019t desert because he was afraid or because he was homesick. He deserted because he was horny. He is a tall, good looking guy who is used to having a steady diet of sexual encounters. With most of the city too calorie deprived to even think about anything as strenuous as sex, it is still his number one concern. His number two concern is; in fact, number two. He hasn\u2019t taken a crap in eleven days. \u201dThe loneliest sound in the world is other people making love.\u201d As Lev soon finds out. The reason they are still alive is there is a Colonel who needs a dozen eggs. He is throwing a wedding feast for his daughter and they need eggs to bake her wedding cake. Kolya and Lev seem like improbable candidates to pull off such an impossible mission. They are dead men walking though and the Colonel has offered a pardon if they can bring him back the eggs he needs. Need, such an interesting concept when for most of the city twelve eggs represent twelve days with a meal. The boys get to see the Colonel\u2019s daughter ice skating on the river. \u201dIt took me a few seconds to realize why she looked so strange, and then it was obvious--even at a distance you could tell that the girl was well fed. There was nothing pinched and desperate about her face. She had an athlete\u2019s casual grace, her pirouettes were tight and fast; she never got winded. Her thighs must have been magnificent--long, pale, and strong--and I could feel my prick hardening for the first time in days.\u201d Rain down on me ladies! Peter Paul van Rubens, detail from 'The Disembarkation at Marseille' . Lev hasn\u2019t seen a woman in a long time that he didn\u2019t have to mentally add weight to her figure and her face to determine if she used to be pretty. \u201dI finally fell asleep and dreamed of a sky raining fat girls.\u201d Their task takes them behind enemy lines where they meet pretty Russian girls kept for the amusement of the Germans, cannibals who have learned that the buttocks make the best steaks, and a female sniper named Vika who Lev falls head over heels in lust with. \u201dI was raised to be clean and it bothered me when others were not\u2026 But Vika\u2019s wet dog smell did not offend me. All of us were slathered in grime by that point, of course--I must have stunk like week-old fish myself--but this wasn\u2019t about being inured to foul odors. The tang off her body made me want to lick her clean.\u201d It is such a burden to be virginal. *sigh* I\u2019ve lost track of how many days it has been since Kolya took a crap. It is somewhere around twenty days. He has decided that his bowels are waiting for the end of the siege (<---B>the siege ended up lasting 872 days</---B>). He is looking forward to feeling the relief of a VICTORY CRAP . Despite the stark circumstances that provide the backdrop for this novel there are many moments of unexpected humor that lend brevity to the growing frustrations and dangers in trying to achieve their mission. Watching the evolution of the friendship between two very different young men, a Cossack and a Jew, is not only heartwarming, but memorable. Lev\u2019s father, a relatively famous poet, who was disappeared by the NKVD looms over the story as ghostly as Hamlet\u2019s father. Lev has the soul of a poet, but lacks the gift to express it. Kolya is working steadily each evening, when he hasn\u2019t found some woman willing to help him with his continually heated loins, on his novel title The Courtyard Hound. I have feeling his writing is spicy. It all comes down to a game of chess, but then isn\u2019t all of life a game of chess? We make sacrifices, pawns, rooks, and bishops, and hope the results prove worthy of what we have given up. The longer these two young men are together we can see their minds expanding exponentially just because one is with the other. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more in the aftermath of my tryst with this beautiful , intelligent novel , I was hobbled by lancinating pain stemming from a burning , itching question repeatedly sounding off in my head\u2026why didn\u2019t I love this book MORE? Why? I love historical fiction , especially tales set in WW the Sequel , and Benioff\u2019s crisp, effortless prose is smart and pleasurable without ever become overly clever or self-indulgent. The plot device of surreal \"forced\" shopping expedition to track down a dozen eggs against the back in the aftermath of my tryst with this beautiful , intelligent novel , I was hobbled by lancinating pain stemming from a burning , itching question repeatedly sounding off in my head\u2026why didn\u2019t I love this book MORE? Why? I love historical fiction , especially tales set in WW the Sequel , and Benioff\u2019s crisp, effortless prose is smart and pleasurable without ever become overly clever or self-indulgent. The plot device of surreal \"forced\" shopping expedition to track down a dozen eggs against the backdrop of the horrific Siege of St. Petersburg was a wonderful vehicle to spotlight the everyday struggles of life during the longest and most destructive siege in the history of modern warfare. All signs point to a love connection. So\u2026again\u2026why wasn't I smitten? The only diagnosis I arrived at to explain my muted affection for this novel was that it was too detached an experience. The story, while giftedly told, never truly pulled me within its sphere of influence. The events encountered by the plot\u2019s main characters, Lev and Kolya, despite being well-described and at times harrowing, never completely captured me. This lack of involuntary engagement in the story left my enjoyment dulled \u00a0and pretty much doomed me. I think being actively vested in the characters and being held captive by the sense of place created by Benioff is vital to a genuine enjoyment of this story. For me, sadly, it more like seeing photos and video of someone else\u2019s exciting vacation rather than experiencing it myself. Still, there were flashes of engagement for me that left me breathless and cemented the fact that I would at least \"like\" this story: ** The scene with the cannibals had me duct-taped to my seat. Benioff\u2019s talent during this portion was writ large on the marquee as he handled this potentially cartoonish scene so deftly that you just knew he was writing truth. I haven\u2019t personally researched the level of cannibalism that occurred during the 900 day Siege, but Benioff\u2019s depiction of it felt absolutely authentic. ** The mine-strapped anti-tank dogs lying dead in the snow and the sole survivor found bleeding by the characters was very powerful and I felt ache. To be able to evoke such emotion for an animal in the midst of the almost unimaginable suffering taking place all around them was a further display of superb craftsmanship on the author\u2019s part. ** The description of the casual, sadistic atrocity perpetrated by the German einsatzkommandos against a Russian peasant girl for trying to escape forced prostitution is seared on my memory. Most noteworthy is that Benioff handled it without any melodrama and this understated, \u201cjust the facts ma\u2019am,\u201d recounting made it all the more chilling. ** The Chess game. I loved it. I\u2019m not going to spoil anything, but I thought this scene was handled wonderfully when it could have derailed easily into Hollywoodness. It didn't and so more another cap tip to the author. In addition to the above, I enjoyed the way Benioff blurred the lines between reality and fiction by using the story-within-a-story framing device. The novel is told as the embellished memoir of Benioff\u2019s own grandfather detailing \u00a0his experience during the siege.\u00a0This adds a real sense of authenticity\u2026however it was also part and parcel of its downfall for me as it added another layer between me and the events of the story. This further heightened my lack of connection to it. In the end, I think this is a skilled work by an excellent story-teller with real talent for writing. The story just never quite clicked for me and I found myself hopelessly undevoted to it. I wish that wasn\u2019t the case, but it was. Thus, the best I can do is 3.0 stars and to point to all the kudos above so that you will understand why I am still recommending that you give it a shot. There is much to like here and hopefully you have a more engrossing experience. ...more This is what happens during war: people will do anything to survive -from murder to stealing, to going on exhaustive food hunts. Absurdly as it sounds, this becomes the cultural norm. It's the Soviet Union 1942. Tension is thick with famine and war. The Germans are beginning their invasion. Two soviet thieves, Lev and Kolya are captured and thrown into the same cell. However, instead of death, they are given a 4 day reprieve with a mission to find a dozen eggs for a wedding cake for a colonel's d This is what happens during war: people will do anything to survive -from murder to stealing, to going on exhaustive food hunts. Absurdly as it sounds, this becomes the cultural norm. It's the Soviet Union 1942. Tension is thick with famine and war. The Germans are beginning their invasion. Two soviet thieves, Lev and Kolya are captured and thrown into the same cell. However, instead of death, they are given a 4 day reprieve with a mission to find a dozen eggs for a wedding cake for a colonel's daughter. This is their mission and the wild egg hunt they go on. Trudging through a landscape of death, evading nazis and cannibals, fighting their own fatigue and exhaustion, an unusual friendship begins. Well drawn out human characters: Lev, Jewish -shy and withdrawn; paralleling that of Kolya, a mild mannered fellow providing humour on this bleak trek. From calculated neglect to constipation -this a story rich in all elements of character development. Writing so palatable and simplistic yet rich in texture, it was a pleasure to read. 5\u2605 Thank you to my GR friends who pointed this one out as a must read. ...more Growing up in Poland you couldn't escape but be exposed to Polish war movies and dramas. The war defined this country and its people, with the country being completely destroyed and around 5,6 million people dead; because the Western powers trusted Stalin the country borders also changed, with parts of eastern Poland being ceded to contemporary Ukraine and Lithuania. But the rotten top of the cake came when the country fell under the influence of the USSR, and disappeared behind the Iron Curtain Growing up in Poland you couldn't escape but be exposed to Polish war movies and dramas. The war defined this country and its people, with the country being completely destroyed and around 5,6 million people dead; because the Western powers trusted Stalin the country borders also changed, with parts of eastern Poland being ceded to contemporary Ukraine and Lithuania. But the rotten top of the cake came when the country fell under the influence of the USSR, and disappeared behind the Iron Curtain for over half a century. However, Polish people are stubborn: the 1980 Solidarity led to the creation of the Soviet's block first trade union, and the subsequent protests formed a wave of reactions throughout Europe, which eventually led to countries breaking away from the Soviet sphere of influence and gaining independence. So what did the Polish people do during all these grim years? And they were grim all right: imagine walking into a store and seeing nothing, literally nothing on its shelves - and then going into another one and seeing empty shelves again, and in another one, and another. Food stamps were not welfare - number of goods one could purchase was limited, with most not being available at all. The black market flourished for those who could afford it, but mostly people stood in long queues to buy whatever was available at the moment. Everything was scarce. [image error] This is not Black Friday but a normal Polish week in the 70's and 80's. You'd be surprised to hear that culturally the country wasn't doing so bad. It was during this time that it produced classic motion pictures and dramas, most of which are highly regarded to this day for their witty social humor and relentless mocking and parodying of the opressive regime, in particular its absurd bureaucracy. It was the time when science fiction could be used as political commentary in thin disguise, and so was music. With severe limits imposed on them, people sought to express themselves and to great effect - even in sports. In 1974 FIFA World Cup Poland got the third place (which is practically unbelieveable when you look at the contemporary face of Polish football) after losing 0:1 to West Germany in a dramatic match - the game was goalless for 76 minutes as both teams struggled on the rain soaked field. The war also made an impact on Polish entertainment. Two of the most popular and enduring Polish TV series have both been about it: The first, More Than Life At Stake was a suspenseful espionage drama about a Polish double agent in the Abwehr in occupied Poland, which cleared the streets when it aired as people were rushing to those who had a television set to not miss an episode; the second, Four tank-men and a dog was a whimsical series about the adventures of a T-34 tank crew and their dog in the Polish army. It was largely a pro-Soviet propaganda piece, made to whitewash the Soviets but people loved it - and still do. How I Unleashed World War II is a series of three comic films about a Polish soldier who is convinced that by an incredible strain of coincidences he has started the second World War and wants to undo it, constantly getting himself into trouble on different theaters of war. The movies poke fun at the German soldiers relentlessly and brought some joy to people of the country which suffered so much at their hands. And it is these whimsical films that I was reminded of when I read <+++>City of Thieves</+++> . <---A>David Benioff</---A> is an estabilished American screenwriter who wrote screenplays for the HBO adaptation of Game of Thrones and movies such as Troy and X-Men Origins: Wolverine . <+++>City of Thieves</+++> is purpotedly based on true experiences of his grandfather during the siege of Leningrad. Leningrand is now named Saint Petersburg , and is located near the Gulf of Finland in northwestern Russia. It is the second largest city in the country with over five million inhabitans, and has formerly served as the capital of the Russian Empire. All great Russian revolutions of the early 20th century took place there - the Revolution of 1905, the February Revolution and the pivotal Russian Revolution of 1917 which abolished Nicholas II and ended the Russian Empire and led to the creation of the Soviet Union. After Lenin's death the city was renamed \"Leningrad\" to honor him; the name was changed to Saint Petersburg in 1991. Today it is an important Baltic port and a cultural center - the place of birth of Dmitri Shostakovich, Vladmir Nabokov and Ayn Rand, the setting of Crime and Punishment . Through its middle flows the river Neva, and in its center sits the Winter Palace - the former residence of the Russian Monarchs, described to me by my mother as the grandest building she ever saw. The city is also the site of the deadliest siege in the history of warfare. From September 1941 to January 1944 the German army severed the last land connection. Over a million of Red Army soldiers and hundreds of thousands of civilians lost their lives due to the bombings, famine and terrible cold. In 1945 it received the Soviet honorary title of \"Hero City\" - an award it shares with Moscow, Odessa, Kiev and Stalingrad among others. [image error] Benioff's novel is presented as fiction, although it's more than implied that the material is at least partially biographical - with creative edits here and there - the novel's unnamed narrator lives in Los Angeles and writes \"screenplays for movies with mutant superheroes\", and visits his retired grandparents in Florida. He intends to write about his grandfather's experiences in Leningrad and publish them. The elder obliges: when he cannot remember certain details, he instructs his grandson to make it up - since he is a writer. What follows is a quite engrossing novel which kept me turning the page with intensity way larger that i have anticipated. You have never been so hungry; you have never been so cold. these words open the narration of Lev Beniow, who lives alone in an apartment in Leningrad. His mother and sister fled the city when it was still possible, but he refused; his father - a poet - has been captured by the NKVD, and Lev feels the obligation to defend his home from the invaders. Lev lives in severe conditions, and together with a group of friends they almost make do; one day a dead Luftwaffe pilot falls from the sky, killed not by another plane but by the extreme cold. At attempt to loot the body is spotted by the Soviet officials, and despite the fact that the punishment for looting is death Lev helps his friend (and a secret sweetheart) escape, being caught in her place. He is taken to prison where he is to await his execution, and there he meets Kolya Vlasow, a deserter from the Red Army. Kolya is everything Lev is not - cultured, witty, charming and socially refined, and quite given to bragadaccio, particularly when it comes to relations with the opposite sex. Expecting the worst, Kolya and Lev are brought before NKVD colonel Grechko, who offers them an offer they can't refuse: he will let them live if they can find a dozen eggs. Grechko needs the eggs for his daughter's wedding cake - they're the only missing ingredient. Although he and the boys both know that in Leningrad there are no eggs in Leningrad, he also knows that when put against a wall man can sometimes do what can only be described as miraculous. He has nothing to lose, while the boys have everything. While the colonel might be perceived as kind of a bastard, he is a weird sort of way a likable person: he gives the boy a waiver which will give them immunity from the Soviet soldiers, a hundred rubbles and five days to return with a dozen eggs. There is no use running away: the environment will kill them, and if it doesn't the colonel's men will hunt them down and kill them, and if they are crazy enough to try to leave the city they will be killed by the Germans. And so begins this fine yarn, which despite its relatively short length holds more than a few surprises up its sleeve. Its lenght is not a detriment - Benioff does not aim to write a historical epic about war. His screenwriting expertise will make sure that the narrative is taut and compelling, with new developments occuring quickly one after the other. Although the novel moves very swiftly, the issues it touches upon are never toned down or simplified for the sake of trying to appeal to the audience. The harshness of life in Leningrad is shown well, and the brutalities and absurdities of war (where else would two boys be sent on such a quest?) are on full display, with several brilliant set pieces which are bound to affect any reader - although the novel might at first glance seem to be adressed to young adults, the author does not shy away from the violence, of which there is a fair amount - some of it quite graphic and really effective. None of it is graphic for its own sake, and the novel never descends to a simplistic bloodbath. The main joy comes from seeing the interaction between the two main characters. Lev is a great narrator: an intelligent and opinionated young Russian, who is shy around girls and irritated and frustrated about his situation, his country and his father; Lev is very sympathetic and a great storyteller. Kolya, On the other hand, is a great jester with irresistible charms, one who never stops bragging about his abilities and accomplishments (especially when it comes to women). While Lev is a bit subdued and quiet, Kolya is often arrogant and full of himself, claiming to be an erudite expert on almost anything - from philosophy and literature to warfare and women. As they embark on their quest to find the eggs their friendship progresses, and it's a delight to see it grow. Since the novel is written by Lev's grandson, the wording does not aim to accurately reflect the way people spoke and wrote around the time: the author writes the story as a contemporary man, not one in the 1940's, but it does not take anything from the novel - I would argue that it allows the readers to immerse themselves in it better. Along their way on the quest for a dozen eggs Lev and Kolya meet many colorful characters, all of which are well developed - the author never uses pure stereotypes and cardboard cutouts, and gives weight not only to the main players but to the supporting cast as well. The sense of war and everpresent danger, is strong in this one, but so is the sense of adventure and fun , despite all the horrors and grimness. Benioff knows how to use dark humor and not sound completely cheesy or over the top, never going into the maudling and overly sentimental territory where many other writers would jump right in to squeeze the emotions out of the reader like you squeeze juice out of a lemon. The novel charms its reader, quickly weaving its spell, and suddenly we are completely captivated and unable to put the damn thing down. I had so much fun with reading this novel, which was a very pleasant surpriseWhile it is definitely not a straight account of the siege of Leningrad, I can see it as a great gateway for readers to fuel their interest about that particular place and time (and it is fascinating stuff). City of Thieves is suspenseful and engaging, with great characters and an engaging storyline. I had a marvelous time with this novel, which in its compact size managed to contain an engaging story about coming of age during the war, and all that comes with it - the harshness, cold and hunger, but also friendship, adventure and love. Great stuff! ...more It\u2019s all about the quest. When I read books, I like to do a little research about the author, time period, the book itself, etc. I was interested to learn that the creator of the video game, The Last of Us, drew inspiration, in part, from this book. The Last of Us is a game my son keeps begging me to play. It takes place in the near future, has nothing to do with World War II era Leningrad, and from what I\u2019ve watched bears no resemblance to the book. It\u2019s all about the quest. In the book, the quest It\u2019s all about the quest. When I read books, I like to do a little research about the author, time period, the book itself, etc. I was interested to learn that the creator of the video game, The Last of Us, drew inspiration, in part, from this book. The Last of Us is a game my son keeps begging me to play. It takes place in the near future, has nothing to do with World War II era Leningrad, and from what I\u2019ve watched bears no resemblance to the book. It\u2019s all about the quest. In the book, the quest is to obtain a dozen eggs for a NKVD Colonel, so his daughter can have a wedding cake. Leningrad is under siege by the Nazis and people are eating the paste from library books, so finding eggs will take some doing. In the games, you generally have an end point too, but you can get sidetracked by doing multiple side quests. Examples: \u201cMister, can you rescue my puppy. He\u2019s in a den of necromancers.\u201d \u201cI lost my sword in a cave about 50 years ago. It would bring a tear to this old soldier, if you could recover it for me. Oh, and it\u2019s guarded by 100 zombies. They\u2019re fast. And they wield weapons. And they use magic. Did I mention there is really powerful zombie when you get to the final room? I\u2019d do it myself but \u2026I\u2019m old. Thanks again. Zeus, bless you!\u201d \u201cThere\u2019s a den of mutant drug fiends about a mile outside of town. If you kill them all, I\u2019ll give you a bottle of water, five bottle caps and the whole town will \u201clike\u201d you.\u201d You do have options. You could say no, punch the asker in the face, or simply walk away with their pathetic pleas ringing in your ears. There\u2019s no straight line from point A to point B in the book either. It\u2019s never that simple. Fortunately, Lev, our intrepid hero, doesn\u2019t have to find the eggs by himself. Kolya, one of the more interesting characters, I\u2019ve come across in a while, is in on this errand with him. Kolya is the guy that\u2019s handsome, funny, charming, and good with his fists and can talk his way into and out of any situation. More or less the perfect companion. In most of the better games you have companions that you can choose from, usually one at a time. Companions range from drunks, mages, guys who can transform into werewolves, 7 foot-300 pound mutants who are off their meds, smoking hot vampire warriors, automated trolls and talking dogs. The latter is not as cool as it sounds, he won\u2019t stop talking/barking if you\u2019re trying to sneak up on enemies. The book doesn\u2019t lack for humor, pathos, adventure and excellent characterization. It\u2019s a timeless tale of summoning one\u2019s inner resources and facing down doubt and fear in the most trying of situations. But in the end, it\u2019s all about the quest. ...more You know how annoying it is when a book\u2019s ending is so unrealistic that you say to yourself in disgust, \u201cThis would never play out like this in real life!\u201d? It\u2019s happened more than once, right? But a funny thing sometimes happens on the way to the forum. Sometimes your peevishness gets assassinated. Sometimes you\u2019re so damned entertained by a book that you act like a sailor on leave and say, \u201cAh, what the hell!\u201d Sometimes you\u2019re so amused by the characters that you see that suspension bridge of You know how annoying it is when a book\u2019s ending is so unrealistic that you say to yourself in disgust, \u201cThis would never play out like this in real life!\u201d? It\u2019s happened more than once, right? But a funny thing sometimes happens on the way to the forum. Sometimes your peevishness gets assassinated. Sometimes you\u2019re so damned entertained by a book that you act like a sailor on leave and say, \u201cAh, what the hell!\u201d Sometimes you\u2019re so amused by the characters that you see that suspension bridge of disbelief and you cross it -- cheerfully, yet. This is the case with David Benioff\u2019s oddly mesmerizing historical foray, CITY OF THIEVES. The quixotic quest book offers a little something for everyone. Russophiles and history buffs will love it because it\u2019s set in Leningrad during the siege, and the author has done his homework, making the setting and background events accurate. Coming-of-age fans will like it because the protagonist, a tough but runty Russian Jew who is only 17, will worm his way into the apple core of your heart. Humor enthusiasts will take to it because it is rich with witty badinage, much of it thanks to Kolya, the Red Army sidekick whose libido leads him AWOL and into deep doo-doo with the Russian military. Together, Lev and Kolya are spared death (one for breaking curfew, the other for looking for love when he should have been on guard with his unit) if they can bring back a certain colonel one dozen eggs. Why? The colonel\u2019s daughter is getting married at the end of the week and needs a huge wedding cake in a city that is about as eggless as a grunting rooster. Ridiculous? Sure. Fun? Indubitably. But the sights our heroes come across during their journey are anything but laughable and, at times, downright gruesome. War is hell, yes, but it also offers ironies in spades. Ante up, then, because Benioff is dealing. You might consider Kolya a tad over-the-top, and you might agree with me that the showdown with the Germans toward the end \u201cstretches things a bit,\u201d but what the hell \u2013 if you\u2019re charmed, you\u2019re in a good mood; and if you\u2019re in a good mood, you tend to let certain things go. Thus, the suspension of disbelief. Thus, the four stars. Thus, the hearty recommendation, reservations notwithstanding. This one\u2019s a page-turner. This one I think you'll like. ...more A terrific book that proves you don't have to write 700 or 800 pages to have real depth. I'm fascinated by how Benioff managed to describe the characters enduring terrible hardship and the worst of one of the most brutal battles in history, but the book doesn't read as grim or overly depressing. That's not to say that there isn't real drama, horror and sadness, but the natural humor of characters keep it from being just another book about the horrors of war. It's a World War II caper, everybody! I highly enjoyed this novel set during the Siege of Leningrad, even though I had just been complaining to my book club friends that I was sick of reading books set during WWII. I thought I had hit my limit of Nazi-related stories, but I was happy to be proven wrong. Many of my GR friends have already read this book, but for those who haven't, I will keep this review free from spoilers. The short summary is we meet a young man named Lev, who is starving in Leni It's a World War II caper, everybody! I highly enjoyed this novel set during the Siege of Leningrad, even though I had just been complaining to my book club friends that I was sick of reading books set during WWII. I thought I had hit my limit of Nazi-related stories, but I was happy to be proven wrong. Many of my GR friends have already read this book, but for those who haven't, I will keep this review free from spoilers. The short summary is we meet a young man named Lev, who is starving in Leningrad but wants to help defend the city against the Germans. One night, Lev gets arrested (long story) and is thrown in prison, where he meets Kolya, a Russian soldier who was arrested for desertion (another long story). Lev and Kolya are given an unusual task by a Soviet colonel: They will be released if they can find a dozen eggs. The colonel's wife wants the eggs to make a cake. How hard can it be to find eggs, you ask? Well, if you're trying to find them when your city has been blockaded and under siege for months, when people are starving and eating bread made of sawdust and \"candy\" made from the glue of books, it can be damn near impossible. This quest for eggs sets the story in motion, and it is fantastic. I couldn't put this novel down! There are just so many things I liked about this book. I liked that the writer, David Benioff, wrote an introduction that made it seem as if the story had really happened to his grandfather. I liked that Lev and Kolya slowly learn to trust each other and become friends. I liked that Kolya was obsessed with Russian literature, and loved to quote from a novel that Lev had never heard of (another long story). I liked how Lev grew up during the story, and how his love of chess helped them in their journey. I liked how rich the writing was, and how reading this book made me feel the coldness and the hunger and the fear of the siege. It's just an incredible story. I highly recommend this novel. Favorite Quotes: \"As siege-hardened as I believed I was before my arrest, the truth was that I had no more courage in January than I had in June \u2014 contrary to popular belief, the experience of terror does not make you braver. Perhaps, though, it is easier to hide your fear when you're afraid all the time.\" \"I've always envied people who sleep easily. Their brains must be cleaner, the floorboards of the skull well swept, all the little monsters closed up in a steamer trunk at the foot of the bed. I was born an insomniac and that's the way I'll die, wasting thousands of hours along the way longing for unconsciousness, longing for a rubber mallet to crack me in the head, not so hard, not hard enough to do any damage, just a good whack to put me down for the night.\" ...more \"There is a place beyond hunger, beyond fatigue, where time no longer seems to move and the body\u2019s misery no longer seems fully your own.\" City of Thieves was an amazing book! If I wasn't juggling so many other books, I would have easily finished it in a day or two. The World Wars are definite areas of interest for me, but I am always fascinated by the differing perspectives and experiences of individuals depending what country they lived in. This book explores the 900-day Siege of Leningrad \"There is a place beyond hunger, beyond fatigue, where time no longer seems to move and the body\u2019s misery no longer seems fully your own.\" City of Thieves was an amazing book! If I wasn't juggling so many other books, I would have easily finished it in a day or two. The World Wars are definite areas of interest for me, but I am always fascinated by the differing perspectives and experiences of individuals depending what country they lived in. This book explores the 900-day Siege of Leningrad from the eyes of Lev, a seventeen-year-old Jewish boy living on his own soon after his family flees the city. Like all great journeys, Lev is sent on a strange, if not comical, mission that throws him into the company of Kolya, a young private in the Red Army. As they head past the German line on their quest, they encounter many of the horrors associated with war: death, suffering, hunger, depravity. Chock full of suspense, adventure, comedy, sadness, and irony, I loved Benioff's style of writing. He contrasted the seriousness of Lev's personality, and the cocky humorous one of Kolya's, to capture the \"Russian experience\"\u2013a history of tragedy and sadness told with sardonic wit. Easily one of my favorite reads this year; I highly recommend it! Books like these really bring history to life. P.S. This would make an amazing (and probably R-rated) film. Why hasn't anyone jumped on this? I kept picturing Dustin Hoffman as Lev (circa Little Big Man ). We need to get this into the Cohen brothers' hands. ...more 'City Of Thieves' is a rare book, one that fires on all cylinders and almost never missteps. It's a modern textbook example of how to write a great story. Stories often have their strengths and their weaknesses when all is said and done. They can rely more on character than plot, or vice versa. A story might be strong, but pacing is a problem. Dialogue might come off unrealistic, although narrative hits the mark. In short, most books are a balancing act. There are things done right, and things t 'City Of Thieves' is a rare book, one that fires on all cylinders and almost never missteps. It's a modern textbook example of how to write a great story. Stories often have their strengths and their weaknesses when all is said and done. They can rely more on character than plot, or vice versa. A story might be strong, but pacing is a problem. Dialogue might come off unrealistic, although narrative hits the mark. In short, most books are a balancing act. There are things done right, and things that could have been better. Benioff's third offering is balanced well beyond the average book. There are no pros and cons, no strengths to rely on. The entire work is solid from beginning to end. This is a damn-near perfect novel and Benioff is a damn-near perfect storyteller. That\u2019s pretty much all you need to know. Set in Leningrad during WWII, 'City Of Thieves' is a hard look at the best and worst of humanity, often hilarious and harrowing at the same time. To say any more would be to give it away, but City Of Thieves should be required reading for every fan of fiction. Darkness and light entwine in these pages, opening your eyes and affecting your heart. And although it's fiction, it is based on historical fact. Just knowing this type of tale occurred in the real world is enough wind you. You'll laugh, you'll gasp, you might even cry. This is one book that will play on your mind long after you've put it down. I couldn\u2019t recommend it enough. *This book was one of my '10 Books That Stuck With Me' piece. See what other books stuck with me... http://jkentmessum.com/2014/03/19/10-... ...more \"I was half asleep but I smiled. In spite of all his irritating qualities, I couldn't help liking a man who despised a fictional character with such passion.\" \"There isn't any good news. Just because there's bad news doesn't mean there's good news, too.\" I loved this book. So much. In fact, I'm in real danger of descending into embarrassing fangirl babble and I really don't want to put you through that. This book deserves so much more than my barely coherent praise I want to heap on top of its \"I was half asleep but I smiled. In spite of all his irritating qualities, I couldn't help liking a man who despised a fictional character with such passion.\" \"There isn't any good news. Just because there's bad news doesn't mean there's good news, too.\" I loved this book. So much. In fact, I'm in real danger of descending into embarrassing fangirl babble and I really don't want to put you through that. This book deserves so much more than my barely coherent praise I want to heap on top of its modest, unassuming frame. So before I proceed any further I want to draw your attention to two excellent reviews that made me want to pick up City of Thieves and read it in the first place -- Maciek and Steve . Thank you gentlemen. During my university days, I majored in 20th century military history. To say I was vastly outnumbered by my male classmates would be an understatement. I was -- for a time anyway -- a curious anomaly, one who was more often humored and patronized, than taken seriously. While my interests would eventually bring me to a focus on Ireland and the IRA, I did spend a fair amount of time up to my eyeballs in everything World War II. But with a subject so vast and sprawling you have to pick your concentration or you'll walk away from it having learned nothing of value. So I chose the Western Front because that's mainly where my countrymen fought and bled and died. But it was so easy to become distracted by this WHOLE OTHER FRONT -- the Eastern Front -- where soldiers and civilians were dying by the millions . While I did my due diligence to keep my attention fixated on the Battles of Britain and the Atlantic, Dieppe and Normandy, I couldn't shake the desire to read more about the 900 day siege of Leningrad -- the starvation, the desperation, the cannibalism. Conditions on every front were a nightmare tableau of death and destruction, but the Eastern Front had the added torture of the bitter, savage cold. Bullets, bombs, starvation were one thing -- that frigid biting air able to cut a man in half and take his fingers and toes on a whim was something else. In City of Thieves , Benioff transports us to the Eastern Front, into the frozen streets of Leningrad in the midst of the German's siege. Here we meet two boys -- Lev, 17 and Kolya, 19. Strangers to one another when the story begins, Lev and Kolya will have just one week filled with peril, misadventure, terror, laughter and tears to forge a bond that normally would take decades. The boys do not have decades however. They have just one week. And what a week it will be. Lev is the quiet, shy virgin Jew, often serious but with a desire to uncover in himself some level of courage and charisma, to perhaps get a pretty girl to notice him. Kolya, the older of the two, is brash and boisterous, filled with a lust for life and for any pretty girl he can get his hands on. Upon meeting Lev he feels it is his duty to help the hapless virgin find his way into the arms of an accommodating lover. It won't be easy. The two boys have also been tasked by a high-ranking military officer to head behind enemy lines in search of a dozen eggs. Where does one even begin to look for luscious eggs in the land of the freezing and starving, where sane people are eating book glue for protein and the insane have started to eat each other? This book is about the horrors of war, and yes, sad and horrific things do happen. But this is mostly a joyful novel filled with heart and humor. I laughed many, many times at Kolya's never-ending antics and stream of profanities, his perpetual teasing of Lev and his insatiable lusty appetites even in the face of war and death. Big spoiler under tag: (view spoiler) [WHY DO AUTHORS LOVE TO MAKE YOU FALL IN LOVE WITH CHARACTERS JUST SO THEY CAN KILL THEM?! Argghhhh! So angry and heartbroken. I should have seen Kolya's death coming a mile away. He was just too full of life and love to survive to the end of the book. I guess Benioff could not resist breaking our reader hearts. Damn you Benioff!!! ::sob:: (hide spoiler) ] Adding to the utter enjoyment of this book was having it read aloud by actor Ron Perlman . Ron! Where have you been my whole life? If it were only possible, I would make you read all of my books for me from now on. You bring depth and nuance to this story with every breath, every lilt of Russian. You are the man. Read this book. Or even better, listen to it. It's wonderful. ...more This book made me laugh, it made me cry, it made me feel. It is a book about friendship during the worst of times. It is my favorite book so far this year. The writing is fabulous! \"Firelight shone through the mullioned windows, warm and buttery, spilling onto the snow in front of the house. Black smoke plumed from the chimney, barely visible as a curling smudge against the dark blue sky. It looked like the most inviting house ever built, the country residence of the emperor's favorite general, h This book made me laugh, it made me cry, it made me feel. It is a book about friendship during the worst of times. It is my favorite book so far this year. The writing is fabulous! \"Firelight shone through the mullioned windows, warm and buttery, spilling onto the snow in front of the house. Black smoke plumed from the chimney, barely visible as a curling smudge against the dark blue sky. It looked like the most inviting house ever built, the country residence of the emperor's favorite general, heated and well stocked for Christmas with everyone's favorite smoked meats and pastries.\" I highly recommend this book! ...more Opening Line: \"My grandfather, the knife fighter, killed two Germans before he was eighteen.\" I came away from this feeling, very cold, very hungry and with an inexplicable need to make sure my pantry was full. CITY OF THIEVES is a fantastic story; set in 1942 during the Nazis\u2019 brutal siege of Leningrad. It\u2019s a coming of age story filled with adventure, suspense, friendship, romance and tragedy all washed down with (from what I understand) a historically accurate picture of Leningrad during the bl Opening Line: \"My grandfather, the knife fighter, killed two Germans before he was eighteen.\" I came away from this feeling, very cold, very hungry and with an inexplicable need to make sure my pantry was full. CITY OF THIEVES is a fantastic story; set in 1942 during the Nazis\u2019 brutal siege of Leningrad. It\u2019s a coming of age story filled with adventure, suspense, friendship, romance and tragedy all washed down with (from what I understand) a historically accurate picture of Leningrad during the blockade. I should point out that despite the events of the time this is also a surprisingly funny read as our two main characters; Kolya the romantic optimist and Lev with his random internal observations both have an interesting way of looking at life around them during the absurdities of war. The story begins with a powerful opening chapter; a writer asks his grandfather to tell him about his experiences during the war. All the narrator knows -and he doesn\u2019t remember anyone telling him its just one of those family folklores that he always has- is that his grandfather, \"the knife fighter\" killed two Germans before he was eighteen and is missing a finger. And so Lev begins to tell his story to his grandson. Talking openly for the first time about his childhood, coming to America and sex. Mostly though he talks about a two week period in 1942 when he met his best friend, the woman that would become his wife and killed two Germans. I actually referred back to this chapter several times during the course of the book and again when I finished. Its January 1942 Leningrad is under marshal law, surrounded by the German army and what\u2019s left of its inhabitants are starving. Our hero 17 year old Lev Beniov has just been arrested for looting and placed in a cell with a handsome friendly deserter named Kolya Vlasov. Both of their crimes are grounds for execution and as our heroes get to know each other that\u2019s what they expect come morning. However in a twist of fate they are given a chance to save their own lives, a secret mission for a powerful soviet colonel, all they have to do is find a dozen eggs for his daughter\u2019s wedding cake. A dozen eggs in a city cut off from supplies, a city resorting to cannibalism and eating glue from book spines to survive. It is of course a ludicrous and impossible task one which takes our new friends far into German occupied territory, through the bitter cold of winter and countless adventures and atrocities. The outcome didn\u2019t really surprise me but I haven't stopped thinking about it either. \u201cOne moment I thought I had a few minutes left to live; the next a sniper was flirting with me. Was she flirting with me? The days had become a confusion of catastrophes; what seemed impossible in the afternoon was blunt fact by the evening. German corpses fell from the sky; cannibals sold sausage links made from ground human in the Haymarket; apartments blocs collapsed to the ground; dogs became bombs; frozen soldiers became sign posts. I had no food in my belly, no fat on my bones and no energy to reflect on this parade of atrocities. I just kept moving, hoping to find another half slice of bread for myself and a dozen eggs for the colonel\u2019s daughter.\u201d ...more CITY OF THIEVES is a coming-of-age story that centers around one eventful week in 1942 Leningrad and the search for a dozen eggs that will mean freedom for a young Jewish (virgin) teen \"thief\" and a handsome, over-sexed, funny, talkative Russian \"deserter\" if they secure their prize. As the war ensues and their trip unfolds, fighting both hunger and fatigue, the two unlikely partners in crime end up behind enemy lines encountering some despicable horrors and near death experiences while sharing s CITY OF THIEVES is a coming-of-age story that centers around one eventful week in 1942 Leningrad and the search for a dozen eggs that will mean freedom for a young Jewish (virgin) teen \"thief\" and a handsome, over-sexed, funny, talkative Russian \"deserter\" if they secure their prize. As the war ensues and their trip unfolds, fighting both hunger and fatigue, the two unlikely partners in crime end up behind enemy lines encountering some despicable horrors and near death experiences while sharing stories and ultimately becoming friends. Absolutely loved Kev and Kolya, (such well-defined characters) their ongoing sarcastic banter, (some really funny stuff here) and the intrigue and outcome of the chess playoff (such courage) but then........there's the ending. ...more Really, really enjoyed this. I'm kind of surprise at how much... the characters are very well developed and so likable. Creating humorous moments during a period in history not regarded as such is a difficult thing for an author to pull off. Benioff does it with such ease and ends up leaving you with a smile on your face. Easy 5 stars read for me. \u201cIf you want to talk about Leningrad, we talk about Leningrad.\u201d So begins the story of Lev and Kolya in what I will say is the best book I have read this year. I\u2019ve read a number of books that are in some way related to WWII over the past 12 months. This happened without planning. It\u2019s just that some of the very best books are in this category, so I wanted to read them: Vonnegut, Philip K Dick, Wiesel & Kristin Hannah. Vonnegut wrote a satire based on reality. Dick wrote a science-fiction p \u201cIf you want to talk about Leningrad, we talk about Leningrad.\u201d So begins the story of Lev and Kolya in what I will say is the best book I have read this year. I\u2019ve read a number of books that are in some way related to WWII over the past 12 months. This happened without planning. It\u2019s just that some of the very best books are in this category, so I wanted to read them: Vonnegut, Philip K Dick, Wiesel & Kristin Hannah. Vonnegut wrote a satire based on reality. Dick wrote a science-fiction piece about what could have happened. In City of Thieves, Benioff (who I now wish would write more and more books, but hey, I know he has a few irons in the fire) creates a story of fiction set within the true siege of Leningrad (St. Petersburg), fondly known as Piter to the Russians who lived there. The then Leningrad is a world and a lifetime away from me (probably you too). It didn\u2019t feel very far while reading. I was with Lev and Kolya the whole way, these two mismatched cohorts that I grew to love. Lev and Kolya are just boys really, forced by situation to be men. They don\u2019t even know one another in the beginning of this story, one caught for looting, the other labeled a deserter. Neither is really guilty, but war creates labels. To save their own lives, they are given a chance: find a dozen eggs for the colonel so that his daughter may have a cake for her wedding (there is little to no food in the city \u2013 people are starving). Send two young men to find eggs: sounds like a preposterous premise. Well, it\u2019s the sort of thing, along with some great humor, that keeps City of Thieves from being overly oppressive. It straddles a line with levity, and by doing so, it is better. What made this book special was its characters. Who they were is why I cared about them. Lev is a 17-year-old, skinny, big-nosed, Russian Jew who\u2019s consistently mistaken for being 15. Insecure, but severely loyal. By appearance, Kolya is all that Lev is not: tall, blonde and blue-eyed and happens to look like a German. He is confident, and out-spoken to a fault, but underneath that there is no vanity and no judgment. Even in the middle of danger, Lev can\u2019t help but see potential love in every girl he meets, and Kolya can\u2019t help but instigate every possible situation. To me that seemed so human. Finally, I thought the story got better as it went along. As the plot developed the tension deepened, and there were three big scenes towards the end, each staggering to me in a different way. I\u2019ll be thinking about this one for quite awhile. ...more 3 Stars Overview: \u201cTruth might be stranger than fiction, but it needs a better editor. \u201d Inspired by David Benioff 's grandfather, this story takes place during the Leningrad Blockade, which occurred from 1941 to 1944 and resulted in up to 4,500,000 deaths. In the midst of this, Lev is a Jewish 17-year-old who is arrested for looting a German corpse. The Soviet police pair him with Koyla, a deserter with artistic ambitions and gives them a mission: Find 12 eggs in the desolate, war-torn city. P 3 Stars Overview: \u201cTruth might be stranger than fiction, but it needs a better editor. \u201d Inspired by David Benioff 's grandfather, this story takes place during the Leningrad Blockade, which occurred from 1941 to 1944 and resulted in up to 4,500,000 deaths. In the midst of this, Lev is a Jewish 17-year-old who is arrested for looting a German corpse. The Soviet police pair him with Koyla, a deserter with artistic ambitions and gives them a mission: Find 12 eggs in the desolate, war-torn city. Prior to writing this book, Benioff worked on screenplays for X-Men films, and in a weird way, I think it shows. Comics and Comic-based movies often rely on a dark or sarcastic humor despite the intense story-lines. This novel was absolutely peppered with crude humor as Lev and Koyla became friends, but it was detracting to the story at times. Pros: All of the characters are very strong and dynamic, and I enjoyed the way they all contrast with each other. Lev is more reserved, while Koyla is vibrant and poetic. They both have dreams and ambitions that extend beyond the reach of their destroyed town. Every character they came in contact with seemed to have their own realistic ambitions and goals, even if only present for a chapter or two. Lev and Koyla frequently discuss sex or make sex jokes, and while it was off-putting at first, by the end of the book it became clear these jokes served as a way for them to disengage from the horrors around them. This seemed realistic and clever storytelling, even if I did not enjoy it all the time. This was not a subdued view of the War. It was dark, gritty and painful. Some of the images the story built were absolutely haunting. Cons: In some ways, I really wish I could rank this higher. It had so many strong elements and I do believe Benioff is a talented writer. However, I think because of this dark humor I was actually pulled out of the story. This was filled with very intense subject matter, but all the joking seemed to keep me from ever feeling anything about it. The characters were well written, but everything was so detached I didn\u2019t ever have the emotional connection I wanted to have. The ending seemed almost\u2026 predictable? If that makes sense. That\u2019s a weird criticism for something based on a true story, but it just seemed almost an easy way to end things. And perhaps a little hokey. Really made me wonder which parts of the story Benioff embellished, as he admits in the beginning. In Conclusion: Very intense subject matter hidden by crude humor, friendship and a somewhat zany plot. Still paints a very haunting picture of WWII era Leningrad. ...more I have been wanting to read this one forever. I decided to grab the audio version and listen to it. I absolutely loved the audio version. Ron Perlman was fantastic. At first, I thought his voice might be too bold, but it was just perfect. I had the print version also but really enjoyed listening to Perlman. The story was quite interesting. To hear more of the war time in Russia, the horrible things the people needed to get through, Lev and Kolya's journey for the eggs, and the banter of the two I have been wanting to read this one forever. I decided to grab the audio version and listen to it. I absolutely loved the audio version. Ron Perlman was fantastic. At first, I thought his voice might be too bold, but it was just perfect. I had the print version also but really enjoyed listening to Perlman. The story was quite interesting. To hear more of the war time in Russia, the horrible things the people needed to get through, Lev and Kolya's journey for the eggs, and the banter of the two made this a very interesting book. It was a very easy read and probably one I would pick up again in the future. ...more Loved this book! Full review to follow I could never do this book justice. Highly recommend. This story is set during WWII and tells of the unlikely friendship between a Jewish teenager and young soldier. They are on a mission to find a dozen eggs in order to save their lives. There are many other interesting characters they meet along their journey. The author made me feel like I was treking along with Lev and Kolya through the woods in freezing cold Russia. He also managed to make me smile at the banter between the two guys while t I could never do this book justice. Highly recommend. This story is set during WWII and tells of the unlikely friendship between a Jewish teenager and young soldier. They are on a mission to find a dozen eggs in order to save their lives. There are many other interesting characters they meet along their journey. The author made me feel like I was treking along with Lev and Kolya through the woods in freezing cold Russia. He also managed to make me smile at the banter between the two guys while telling of horrible conditions. Read this. You won't regret it :-) ...more This is a lovely, coming of age novel about a young (17) man in Nazi-besieged St Petersberg, Piter to the locals, who finds himself accompanied by a Soviet army deserter, named Kolya as they try to survive the horrors of war. It is, of course, a bleak landscape, with people driven mad by hunger and desperation, some to the point of cannibalism. What are people capable of? What is our young hero capable of? Can he kill? I quite enjoyed this book. It was engaging from front to end, with nicely dra This is a lovely, coming of age novel about a young (17) man in Nazi-besieged St Petersberg, Piter to the locals, who finds himself accompanied by a Soviet army deserter, named Kolya as they try to survive the horrors of war. It is, of course, a bleak landscape, with people driven mad by hunger and desperation, some to the point of cannibalism. What are people capable of? What is our young hero capable of? Can he kill? I quite enjoyed this book. It was engaging from front to end, with nicely drawn characters and payload in the form of an inside view of life under siege. ...more The 1st third of this book I was forcing myself to keep reading, it\u2019s like this coming of age story on steroids. While I liked Lev immediately I couldn\u2019t relate to Kolya; rather than comic relief I thought his humour just crass, but I kept reading and I was hooked. I think it was the bootless prisoner trudging through the snow with feet turned into blocks of ice when I finally got it\u2026. It\u2019s a horrendous story of unimaginable hardship and the author throws you right in the thick of it. Once I l The 1st third of this book I was forcing myself to keep reading, it\u2019s like this coming of age story on steroids. While I liked Lev immediately I couldn\u2019t relate to Kolya; rather than comic relief I thought his humour just crass, but I kept reading and I was hooked. I think it was the bootless prisoner trudging through the snow with feet turned into blocks of ice when I finally got it\u2026. It\u2019s a horrendous story of unimaginable hardship and the author throws you right in the thick of it. Once I lightened up and stopped being moralistic I could appreciate it\u2019s dark absurdity, I even warmed up to Kolya. Still squeamish though; this book will push your limits. It\u2019s dark and it's crude, it\u2019s also amazing, a heart in your mouth thriller with a bitter sweet ending. Memorable: \"She leaned forward and kissed me on the lips. Her mouth was cold, her lips rough from the winter wind, and if the mystics are right and we are doomed to repeat our squalid lives ad infinitum, at least I will always return to that kiss.\" ...more Gripping Tale of Unknown WW II Heroes in Russia David Benioff, the author of \"City of Thieves\", is one of those fortunate few who has everything going for him in life. His father headed Goldman Sachs at one time (so presumably he grew up wealthy). He is very handsome and is married to beautiful actress Amanda Peet (and in the photos they look like a happy couple). He is an executive producer and writer for the successful TV show \"Game of Thrones\". But none of these things are the reason I read t Gripping Tale of Unknown WW II Heroes in Russia David Benioff, the author of \"City of Thieves\", is one of those fortunate few who has everything going for him in life. His father headed Goldman Sachs at one time (so presumably he grew up wealthy). He is very handsome and is married to beautiful actress Amanda Peet (and in the photos they look like a happy couple). He is an executive producer and writer for the successful TV show \"Game of Thrones\". But none of these things are the reason I read this book. I read it because David Benioff can tell a story like nobody's business. And what a story! If one is to believe the book's prologue, the author (who sounds somewhat similar to David Benioff) decided that his grandfather's untold story was far more interesting than his own. So, according to the prologue, the author spent days interviewing his grandfather. But since his grandfather claimed he couldn't remember details like the weather and what he was wearing, the author wrote a fictionalized account of his grandfather's World War II adventures. Apparently, in spite of the prologue's implications, the story is not based on the history of Benioff's actual grandparents, all of whom were born in the U.S. So the entire novel is fiction. But it's still a great story. Lev Abramovitch Beniov, the fictional grandfather, was a little half Jewish boy living in Leningrad, which everyone who lived there still called \"Peter\" (after its old name, St. Petersburg). I'm not sure how old he is when the story begins, but he seems to be fourteen and fifteen for most of it. Except for the prologue (narrated by \"the author\"), Lev is the narrator and central character of the novel. Lev's father was a famous poet who was \"disappeared\" by the Russian secret police (NKVD) and was presumed to be dead. His mother and sister fled from \"Peter\" when the Nazis invaded Russia. Lev decided to stay (against his mother's wishes) to help defend the city. One day, he and his cohorts, unconscripted kids who are doing what they can to shore up the city walls and spot enemy planes, etc., find a dead Nazi, who parachuted down and was apparently frozen to death. The children, who like everyone else in \"Peter\" haven't had enough to eat since the Germans came in, loot the Nazi's body and find a few things, including a flask that might be Cognac. Looting is a crime punishable by execution. As the children are helping themselves to the swag, some Russian soldiers from the infamous NKVD swing by. Lev is about to make his escape over a wall when he spies Vera, a girl from his building on whom he has a mild crush, lying on the ground. She can't make it over the wall, and the soldiers are about to catch her. Lev goes back to help Vera over the wall. Vera runs off without even a backwards glance, and Lev gets caught. He's thrown into the worst prison in \"Peter\", called \"The Crosses\", for the night, along with Kolya, a deserter who loudly proclaims that he is not a deserter. The NKVD colonel in charge calls in Lev and Kolya, the next day. They think they are about to be shot. The colonel takes pity on them and sends them out on a crazy errand. He needs a dozen eggs for his daughter's wedding cake. They have until the following Thursday to return with the eggs or they will lose their ration cards, which in Peter, likely means starving to death. This is like \"Mission Impossible\". People in \"Peter\" are starving, and no one has seen an egg for months. Suffice it to say that Lev and Kolya, an odd couple if there ever was one, have all kinds of adventures and become fast friends. Lev is a shy, inexperienced half Jewish boy whose main talent is chess. He thinks of himself as a coward. He considers himself unappealing to women, with whom he has no experience. Kolya is Lev's opposite in every way. He is a very handsome blonde Cossack, a Lothario. He is crude, extraverted, and never stops talking (even when he should). He tells the same (often unfunny) jokes over and over again, like a salesman. Nevertheless he has charisma, charm, and confidence and is a natural leader. He is completely fearless. He is also secretly writing a novel. He was a university student before the war. However, Kolya is basically a good hearted man. He takes Lev under his wing and teaches him the ways of the world. The two become best friends in a very short time. They face many difficulties and adventures on their quest for the eggs, including falling in with some Russian partisan fighters on a dangerous mission behind Nazi lines. Lev's story is the story of one of many unsung, anonymous heroes of World War II. Benioff tells this amazing story very well. I can see why he is a writer for a very successful TV show. He clearly has the skills of a professional writer. His prose is low key, and never showy. The story and the characters are the center of attention, never the words. Another Goodreads reviewer complained about the detached tone, but I think it's necessary. We might not be able to read about all the horrors that Lev confronts without a certain distance from them. Being immersed in the scene would make it impossible for a reader to finish the story. Besides, as Lev tells \"the author\", the events occurred a long time ago. No doubt, too, keeping a distance from the scene is a coping mechanism for Lev himself. His life would be unbearable if he were to constantly relive the horrors he faced in the war. Ron Perlman reads the audiobook wonderfully. He uses his smoky voice to full effect here. I recommend this unreservedly. It's old fashioned storytelling at its best. ...more If I had to describe this book in two words (because one is never enough), they would be: 1. Brilliant. 2. Extraordinary. This book hit me on so many different levels that I still can\u2019t believe it\u2019s all the same book. Tension, excitement, heartache and hilarity are all seamlessly wrapped up to create this wonderfully engaging story that I read in just over a day. I might not have put it down at all if not for those pesky life responsibilities getting in the way! I must first say that these are two o If I had to describe this book in two words (because one is never enough), they would be: 1. Brilliant. 2. Extraordinary. This book hit me on so many different levels that I still can\u2019t believe it\u2019s all the same book. Tension, excitement, heartache and hilarity are all seamlessly wrapped up to create this wonderfully engaging story that I read in just over a day. I might not have put it down at all if not for those pesky life responsibilities getting in the way! I must first say that these are two of the most endearing characters I\u2019ve read in a long time. Lev and Kolya are strangers at the outset but what they gain by the end of their adventure is more than just an unlikely friendship. The fact that they couldn\u2019t be more polar opposites is what makes witnessing their journey so sweet. Kolya is like a blunt object hammering away at Lev\u2019s reticence. This had me in stitches so many times! I really fell hard for these guys. The greatest source of Lev\u2019s shame is that he can\u2019t seem to find a way to not be afraid. He wants to be brave like his friend Kolya, wants to believe that when it comes down to it he would fight for what he believes in. I\u2019m happy to say that this shy and unassuming boy does find out what\u2019s really worth defending and discovers something inside himself that I don\u2019t think he realized was there all along. And Kolya, well he might just be one of my favorite characters ever. He\u2019s fast-talking, quick on his feet, completely irreverent and doesn\u2019t ever seem to stop thinking about sex (among other things). And above all that he\u2019s just\u2026kind. Generous. Self-sacrificing. One mark of a winning book is that I\u2019m sad when it\u2019s over. In this case I feel like I\u2019m leaving two friends behind. I\u2019m so grateful to my Goodreads friends who recommended this one. ...more I'm on a run of great books lately and this was no exception. City of Thieves is set in Russia during WWII. It tells the story of Lev, a boy on his own in the starving city of Leningrad, and Kolya, a young soldier from the Red Army. Both Lev and Kolya are arrested for different reasons and end up in the same prison cell. While they both expect to be executed in the morning, they are instead taken to the home of a top military man and given a task: find one dozen eggs for a wedding cake. If the b I'm on a run of great books lately and this was no exception. City of Thieves is set in Russia during WWII. It tells the story of Lev, a boy on his own in the starving city of Leningrad, and Kolya, a young soldier from the Red Army. Both Lev and Kolya are arrested for different reasons and end up in the same prison cell. While they both expect to be executed in the morning, they are instead taken to the home of a top military man and given a task: find one dozen eggs for a wedding cake. If the boys can complete the task, they will live. This reads like a road movie. I was reminded more than once of the great buddy/road movies that we've all seen, like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid or Thelma and Louise. It's a great adventure, but also an education about life in a city under siege. I fell in love with both these guys, particularly Kolya. He's brash, loves literature and women in equal measure, and his lines had me laughing more than once. Lev is more introspective and troubled. The boys complement each other well, each bringing his own strengths to their \"mission\". More than anything else, this is an adventure story, but the quality of the writing elevates it into something more. I loved this book and I'll be reading it again. ...more Being a woman, I am not often privy to what goes on inside a young guy's mind - rather, I have to rely on what he tells me. But this novel took me inside a young Russian's mind in Leningrad early 1940s. I cannot offer my own paltry review when faced with heavyweights like this one; easily one of the best reviews for this novel: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... My own advice is I Highly Recommend this superb fiction. 5\u2605 \u201cAs siege-hardened as I was before my arrest, the truth was that I had no more courage in January than I had in June \u2013 contrary to popular belief, the experience of terror does not make you braver. Perhaps, though, it is easier to hide your fear when you\u2019re afraid all the time.\u201d Unlike anything else I\u2019ve read\u2015within the prologue of this book I just knew that it was going to be a masterpiece. Never mind the fact that this guy is one of the co-writers for the HBO series Game of Thrones (yes, you \u201cAs siege-hardened as I was before my arrest, the truth was that I had no more courage in January than I had in June \u2013 contrary to popular belief, the experience of terror does not make you braver. Perhaps, though, it is easier to hide your fear when you\u2019re afraid all the time.\u201d Unlike anything else I\u2019ve read\u2015within the prologue of this book I just knew that it was going to be a masterpiece. Never mind the fact that this guy is one of the co-writers for the HBO series Game of Thrones (yes, you did just read that) but I went into the book without knowledge of this little tidbit and it definitely explains A LOT. I started off reading the first page when I slowly grew confused. Why does this book, which is supposedly about Russia in the twenty-first century, sound as though it takes place in modern day Los Angeles? And then it hit me not four pages later. David Benioff introduced us to his story by showing how it came to be, how he interviewed his grandparents and was told \u201cDavid, you\u2019re a writer. Make it up (the rest of their story).\u201d And so Benioff goes on to writing in third person\u2015an intriguing perspective that I usually don't read\u2015and boy, does he deliver. City of Thieves is a wintry tale of savage beauty. I cried, I laughed, I tore my hair out in distress and nearly threw the book across the room on multiple occasions. It was, simply put, fucking awesome. Kolya and Lev have two choices. They can die as prisoners for breaking curfew, stealing from a German corpse, and becoming a deserter, or\u2026they can venture out into the wild snow and war torn terrain in pursuit of a dozen eggs for a powerful soviet colonel to use in his daughter\u2019s wedding cake. Brash and defiant as they seem, they\u2019re not going to go down that easily. Lev, a young boy without a family, is our narrator. He\u2019s afraid of many things, but death is at the top of that list. His character development from the first to final pages of this novel astonished me to the point of tears. But nothing had me crying more than his partner in crime. Kolya is the ever-jovial companion of Lev that just doesn't know when to shut up. He's flirtatious and ambitious, constantly making people melt before him with just a few teasing words. However, his endearing speech often fails him when it comes to negotiating with soldiers or generally anyone who isn't a female or Lev. Kolya is slightly older of the two, and therefore he fits the brother bear role quite smoothly, but he's also terrified of many things, and his fear is delicately hidden beneath his sarcastic guise. He has a deep passion for literature, which was ultimately what made him a \u201cdeserter\u201d although he likes to wave that off, and since Lev\u2019s father was a famous poet, one of the many who were the first to be picked off by the Germans, the two boys share a common ground when it comes to the great writings of Russia. Ultimately, this is a story about growing up. One of the bet things about this novel is the sadistic humor. The whole point of the story is to find a chicken that will provide a dozen eggs by the upcoming Thursday. It\u2019s plenty obvious that that task would prove to be more challenging in 20th century Russia than perhaps tracking down the Yeti. So of course things like this scene would occur\u2026. \u201cDarling\u2019s not for the pot,\u201d said Kolya. \u201cWe need her for the eggs.\u201d \u201cThe eggs?\u201d Timofei looked at us, at Darling, back to us. He seemed to think we were joking. \u201cEveryone\u2019s quitting on Darling,\u201d Kolya continued, \u201cbut I think she\u2019s got it in her. Do you know anything about chickens? You think she can lay a dozen by Thursday?\u201d \u201cWhat the hell are you talking about?\u201d The surgeon seemed more and more irritated. Konya glared back at him, insulted by the man\u2019s tone. \u201cDon\u2019t you speak Russian? We\u2019re waiting for the eggs!\u201d For a moment I thought the conversation would turn violent, which would have been a bad thing for the Red Army; we needed our surgeons and Kolya would have splattered the man with a single punch. But Timofei finally laughed, shaking his head, waiting for us to laugh with him. \u201cLaugh all you want,\u201d I told him. \u201cYou\u2019re not touching the chicken.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s not a chicken, you idiot. It\u2019s a rooster.\u201d I had to put the book down and stare at nothing. Then I couldn't stop laughing. Eventually the ugly truth set in, and, well... DAMN, they were so close!! This book, for all it's light hearted banter and humorous phrases, demands attention. For every sentence you read, there will be a thousand images rushing through your mind offering beautiful and horrific scenes that will appear almost like a memory, as though it\u2019s a recollection of the past rather than the awful present. The ending of this book was as gripping as the prologue, if not more because, by then, I had fallen in love with the characters. Of course there were many deaths, but one death in particular truly made my heart ache. City of Thieves is ferocious and chilling, but the friendships that grow from such a black time are the ones to be most cherished and remembered. This book was amazing. Disclaimer: You'll need some tissues and something to scream into by the end. Enjoy! ...more City of Thieves by David Benioff Set in the ice cold winter of January 1942 during the brutal Nazi Siege of Leningrad, also known as The Leningrad Blockade and The 900 Day Siege. Citizens of Leningrad dig for water from a broken main during the winter of 1942 Background on The Siege: Instead of attacking and occupying Leningrad, the Nazis surrounded the city and cut it off from the rest of Russia, leaving the most minimal food and energy supplies for the population trapped inside to live on. The p City of Thieves by David Benioff Set in the ice cold winter of January 1942 during the brutal Nazi Siege of Leningrad, also known as The Leningrad Blockade and The 900 Day Siege. Citizens of Leningrad dig for water from a broken main during the winter of 1942 Background on The Siege: Instead of attacking and occupying Leningrad, the Nazis surrounded the city and cut it off from the rest of Russia, leaving the most minimal food and energy supplies for the population trapped inside to live on. The plan was for the people inside to eventually starve to death, and that exactly what happened. First, pets were hunted for food. Then stories emerged of cannibalism and then ghoulish rumors emerged of freshly buried bodies being dug up for roasting. In addition to starving to death, the winters in Leningrad are brutal and severe. It is so cold, the little bits of food are frozen solid and impossible to bite and chew. Lack of fuel also meant that wood became the only source of heat for the population. Furniture and floor boards were burned in most every single home in the city, until there was nothing left. By the end of the siege, an estimated 1.5 million people had slowly died of starvation and/or exposure. Three men burying victims of Leningrad's siege in 1942 The Book So, this story is set in the middle of this siege described above. It begins one night when 17-year-old Lev Beniov a shy, naive teenager is arrested for a minor infraction. Lev is thrown into a prison cell with Kolya, a handsome, casanova with a quick wit. Kolya is a soldier who was arrested (falsely, he says) for desertion. The two expect to be shot in the morning, but instead they are offered a deal by Colonel Grechko of the NKVD. The Colonel has a daughter about to be married. If Lev and Kolya can find a dozen eggs for the wedding cake before Thursday, they can both go free. This is a daunting task because there are no chickens, much less eggs, anywhere in Leningrad. A delicate eggshell is a great analogy for the brittle fragility of their task. This is how one of the most entertaining friendships and most thrilling adventure quests I've ever read begins. I loved this book, every word of it. The writing, the plot, the tone, the humor. The characters are especially full and detailed. There is the cool and calm Vika, an expert sniper and one of the toughest female bad-asses you'll ever meet in a book. My favorite though, was Kolya, a shameless womanizer and know-it-all with a deep affection for literature. His charm and playful humor is so intoxicating, you'll forgive his reckless swagger and fall in love with him. And we can't forget Lev, the most relatable character, who grows and changes the most in this great story. I can't remember the last time I flew through a book this quickly, unable to put it down! ...more A strangely terrible book. I read it from cover to cover, skipping only a few passages, which I almost never do in a book this bad. And there's nothing, on the surface, that is really bad. The plot is compelling, the characters pretty interesting when they're not merely comic book sketches, the atmosphere in a lot of scenes seems just right. The only problem was that I didn't believe a single word of it. People in wartime, in life-or-death situations, simply don't think or feel this way. I could A strangely terrible book. I read it from cover to cover, skipping only a few passages, which I almost never do in a book this bad. And there's nothing, on the surface, that is really bad. The plot is compelling, the characters pretty interesting when they're not merely comic book sketches, the atmosphere in a lot of scenes seems just right. The only problem was that I didn't believe a single word of it. People in wartime, in life-or-death situations, simply don't think or feel this way. I could be wrong -- the only way I know what people in those situations is from books or movies. But I read City of Thieves directly after finishing In Pharaoh's Army, by Tobias Wolff, about his Vietnam experience. Wolff's book feels like the real thing, there isn't a word that I didn't believe -- all right, there was one sentence -- while City of Thieves feels as if it was written by someone who read a book about the siege of Leningrad, then tried to make ART out of it. ...more", "Title": "City of Thieves"},
