{"Comments": "<+++>The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals</+++>there\u2019s something i call \u2018generational narcissism\u2019 which is basically the naive belief that one\u2019s generation is special and different and unique for no other reason than that one is part of it. there are a few varieties: 1) new-age generational narcissism : the belief that the \u2018universe\u2019 (<---B>that vague overused and totally unhelpful term</---B>) has destined some serious astronomical, astrological, apocalyptical and/or spiritual kind of paradigm shift to occur in one\u2019s time. i.e. age of aquarius, end of day there\u2019s something i call \u2018generational narcissism\u2019 which is basically the naive belief that one\u2019s generation is special and different and unique for no other reason than that one is part of it. there are a few varieties: 1) new-age generational narcissism : the belief that the \u2018universe\u2019 (that vague overused and totally unhelpful term) has destined some serious astronomical, astrological, apocalyptical and/or spiritual kind of paradigm shift to occur in one\u2019s time. i.e. age of aquarius,<---M> end of days</---M>, revolution in global consciousness, nostradamus-type jackass person's prediction, etc. 2) technological generational narcissim : the belief that because things are more advanced now than they ever were, one\u2019s generation is uniquely intelligent aware wise clever etc. 3) political generational narcissim : the belief that one\u2019s generation is somehow politically unique. usually manifested in the belief that one lives in a uniquely evil horrible time and that a specific politican is the absolute worst since, and frequently compared to, hitler. so throughout bush\u2019s first term i was careful not to kneejerkingly fall into the third category. yeah, the guy\u2019s an embarrasment, but that\u2019s a far cry from being \u2018the worst\u2019. and then all the torture crap broke. and it became very easy to lay with the 3rd group.<---F> it felt good</---F>. it was a release. and whether i have accurately looked over the facts or was simply slow to join the 3rd group, i believe bush and all the other criminals in his cabinet (and their lawyers. ugh. those fucking lawyers) are the worst america\u2019s seen. look: i\u2019m no flaming liberal. i hold a good number of conservative beliefs and have caught lots of shit here on bookface for my obsession with ronald reagan. and while many of my contemporaries are embarrassed by any feelings of national pride they may have, i\u2019m the complete opposite: any ideas i may have regarding nationalism in general and in theory, i want to love america. no shit. i want to feel national pride. i want to be proud to be an american. and the assholes who always run the show make it pretty impossible, don\u2019t they? the worst . Lincoln suspended Habeus Corpus. FDR ignored the neutrality acts and interned the japanese. but there\u2019s a key difference. as Mayer points out: While earlier presidents overstepped boundaries in times of emergency, neither Lincoln nor Roosevelt claimed the routine presidential right to do so. (pg. 47) in other words, Bush/Cheney took literally Nixon\u2019s famous line, \u201cWhen the president does it, that means that it is not illegal.\u201d and this tiny distinction makes all the difference\u2026 (see Louis XIV : \u2018I am the State!\u2019) the worst . in our revolutionary war, the british considered us as 'unlawful combatants' so saw no reason to adhere to any rules of war. nonetheless, George Washington did. against an infinitely more powerful organized wealthy and better armed enemy. and this shaped the national consciousness forever until 2001. Abe Lincoln could\u2019ve easily declared the south beyond the law by declaring them all saboteurs and internal enemies. he didn\u2019t. Wilson in WW1, FDR in WW2, Reagan during the Cold War, etc\u2026 every president knew that the codification of torture was a no-brainer. the worst . those who most need to prove their toughness are always the most weak. and pretty much always weaken themselves and those around them in the process. check it: Cassel: If the President deems that he\u2019s got to torture somebody, including by crushing the testicles of the person\u2019s child, there is no law that can stop him? Yoo: No treaty. Cassel: Also no law by Congress. That is what you wrote in the August 2002 memo. john yoo is a tough guy. the worst . torture is one of those things that provides an easy marker of a society in decline. it\u2019s \u2018Fall of Rome\u2019 kinda shit. watch out for lions in the streets, people. the worst . torture doesn\u2019t work. everyone knows this. people will say anything to end torture. so, yeah, you might think there are a lot more reasons to declare Bush the absolute worst. and some of you might think that\u2019s absurd. that and all the other shit these thugs got up to is up for debate. but not torture. naw. torture makes debate easy in that it ends it: it's strikingly black and white. Obama seems interested in re-uniting the country and that\u2019s a good thing\u2026 but it\u2019d be damn cool if, on january 21st, seconds after being declared president, he bitch-slapped Bush, had his boys slap the cuffs on him and all the others, and marched those motherfuckers off to prison. to stand trial. as criminals \u2013 yes, even war criminals \u2013 deserve. ...more The title comes from Dick Cheney\u2019s vow to go to the \u201cDark Side\u201d in the battle against terrorism. There is a wealth here of drill-down detail about the mechanisms by which America abandoned the constitution in favor of a unitary, imperial president (and really vice president) who believes that l\u2019estat est moi. I have read a fair number of books that delve into the Bush administration and nowhere have I seen the comprehensive depth Mayer has given to her examination of how America has traded its s The title comes from Dick Cheney\u2019s vow to go to the \u201cDark Side\u201d in the battle against terrorism. There is a wealth here of drill-down detail about the mechanisms by which America abandoned the constitution in favor of a unitary, imperial president (and really vice president) who believes that l\u2019estat est moi. I have read a fair number of books that delve into the Bush administration and nowhere have I seen the comprehensive depth Mayer has given to her examination of how America has traded its soul for a false sense of security. Although she does not make any comparisons of this sort (I mean any time the word Nazi is mentioned, the notion that follows is automatically dismissed) one notion that popped into my head was that so many of the dark players here seemed to get off on the idea of torture, regardless of the extant analysis, even from their own people, that it is counterproductive. I was reminded of the embrace of cruelty that became the norm in that prototypical horror-state. David Addington emerges as one of the real scary guys, Cheney\u2019s attack dog. These people would have been right at home with the dark forces of yesteryear. Great detail is offered re the impact of the Office of Legal Counsel and how the people there were at the center of the attack on long-standing American principles. Mayer notes the place of the USA in the history of international rules concerning treatment of captured enemies, beginning with Washington\u2019s humane treatment of Brit prisoners at a time when the Brits treated captured Yanks like animals. She points out the beneficent impact of such rules on our own people, noting how the Nazis treated captured Americans. And she cites the impact (positive) of the USA on the 1949 Geneva accords. She offers portraits of those who tried to fight against the darkness within the government, and how they were ignored, attacked, crushed, driven out. This is a powerful, detailed depiction of the rotten core of a bad apple, and should be a must-read for every American. ...more I was well aware of the excesses of the Bush administration\u2019s war on terror, but still Mayer\u2019s book was shocking. It\u2019s been eleven years since we saw the first pictures of abuse in Abu Ghraib. Mayer starkly brings back the memory. This detailed account of disregard for human decency, false imprisonments, and torture brought on feelings of disgust and revulsion. Given some of the rhetoric in the current presidential campaign, this book is as relevant as ever. I can\u2019t recommend it highly enough. M I was well aware of the excesses of the Bush administration\u2019s war on terror, but still Mayer\u2019s book was shocking. It\u2019s been eleven years since we saw the first pictures of abuse in Abu Ghraib. Mayer starkly brings back the memory. This detailed account of disregard for human decency, false imprisonments, and torture brought on feelings of disgust and revulsion. Given some of the rhetoric in the current presidential campaign, this book is as relevant as ever. I can\u2019t recommend it highly enough. My notes below cover some major points. To get the full story you must read the book. Following the 9-11 attacks, the White House went into panic mode. Dick Cheney in particular lost it. Longtime friend Brent Scowcroft said, \u201cI don\u2019t know him anymore.\u201d Colin Powell aide Lawrence Wilkerson said, \u201cThe poor guy became paranoid.\u201d What ensued were the authorization of torture and the deprival of basic human rights. In short order, centuries of American values were undermined. The CIA had dropped the ball tracking Al Qaeda operatives abroad. The CIA knew two of the eventual hijackers had entered the US in 2000 and stopped following them, but failed to notify the FBI, which arguably could have prevented the attacks. Concerned about a potential Al Qaeda attack, longtime counterterrorism official Richard Clarke on January 25, 2001 wrote Bush\u2019s new National Security Advisor, Condoleezza Rice, a memo outlining the threat and asked for a Principals Meeting to discuss it. Instead she demoted him. CIA Chief George Tenet met with Rice on July 10, 2001 to warn about Al Qaeda, but according to Tenet got \u201cthe brushoff.\u201d Rice denied any urgent warning was given at the meeting. On August 10 the CIA delivered a briefing to President Bush entitled, \u201cBin Laden Determined to Strike in the US. Bush dismissed it with \u201cAll right. You\u2019ve covered your ass now.\u201d Finally on September 4, 2001 after a final plea from Clarke to Rice the meeting with the Vice President, CIA Director, National Security Advisor and other top officials was held. Despite an impassioned plea from Clarke to take action against Bin laden, no action was taken. A frustrated Clarke resigned in 2003. Immediately after the September 11 attacks, the CIA proposed that it be authorized to detain, interrogate and kill people they identified as enemy combatants as needed. Bush readily agreed. The Agency began recruiting and forming a paramilitary unit. White House lawyers wrote secret memos to justify warrantless seizures and searches saying that the fourth amendment did not apply when the president deemed there to be a national emergency. Internal secret memos gave the president authority to conduct war at will, even deploying troops in the US without congressional approval. Essentially Bush was proclaiming as had King Louis XIV, \u201cI am the state.\u201d Bush began talking of himself in the third person as the commander in chief and later called himself \u201cthe decider\u201d. In fact, decisions were made before they ever got to him. If you can frame the question, you can get the answer you want. The framer in chief was Dick Cheney. Working through his chief of staff, lawyer David Addington, he controlled the Bush administration lawyers that were sending documents for Bush to sign. Addington reviewed and corrected each document to his satisfaction before Bush saw it. One authorized Bush to declare terrorists \u201cillegal enemy combatants\u201d with no prisoner of war or any other rights. They would be subject to any treatment the president deemed appropriate. Cheney, who had served as President Ford\u2019s Chief of Staff, had been appalled at the decline of presidential power following Watergate when Congress passed legislation to prevent future abuses. 9-11 was his opportunity to return to Nixonian policies. As Nixon said, \u201cWell, when the president does it, that means it is not illegal.\u201d Cheney\u2019s 1987 Minority Report, written as Ranking Member of the House Select Committee investigating the Iran Contra Affair, declared the president had every right to take covert action without notifying congress. In 2000 Cheney became Bush\u2019s adviser on vice presidential selection and in true Machiavellian fashion selected himself. Cheney had extensive Washington experience and Bush had none. Cheney quickly took control. With the capture of \u201cThe American Taliban\u201d John Walker Lindh in Afghanistan in November 2001 the issue of what to do with detainees became paramount. Ignoring traditional interagency mechanisms for deciding such issues, Dick Cheney, Addington and their self-appointed War Council of like-minded hardliners would decide. They established military commissions which could prosecute suspected terrorists without the presumption of innocence, the right to council, the right to remain silent, Geneva Convention protections against torture or any other safeguards. Evidence collected by physical coercion would be admissible as would hearsay. Conviction would not require evidence beyond a reasonable doubt and the death penalty would not require a unanimous decision. After subjecting Lindh to sleep deprivation and extreme cold, evidence was extracted with him blindfolded, naked and duct taped to a stretcher while being fed barely enough to keep him alive. Fortunately for Lindh as the first detainee he was to be tried in a US Court. Afraid of the revelations of Lindh\u2019s treatment, the Justice Department reached a plea deal and he \u201conly\u201d got twenty years on charges backed by little genuine evidence. But the larger impact of this case was not lost on Cheney, et al. From this point forward detainees would not be tried in US courts. To avoid culpability, The CIA Counterterrorist Center turned to \u201cextraordinary renditions.\u201d It extradited suspects to countries such as Egypt and Jordan where torture was the norm. The US no longer had to even make charges, just have masked CIA agents transport detainees to countries where interrogation techniques were aligned with administration policy. The most notable case that serves as a good example of the type of intelligence torture elicits is that of Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi who ran Bin Laden\u2019s Afghanistan training camp. At first with \u201crapport building\u201d techniques the FBI was getting useful information with the captured al-Libi, but then the CIA spirited him away to Egypt. Repeatedly brutalized and in fear of his life, al-Libi said whatever his captors wanted to hear, in this case that Iraq was training Al Qaeda operatives in the use of chemical weapons. This \u201cintelligence\u201d was then used by CIA Director George Tenet to convince Secretary of State Colin Powell to make his famous speech to the UN Security Council calling for a preemptive war against Iraq. Tenet never bothered to tell Powell that the DIA found al-Libi\u2019s statements highly questionable. The first \u201chigh-value detainee\u201d was Abu Zubayda, supposedly Al Qaeda\u2019s logistic chief. Captured by the Pakistani\u2019s in return for $10 million from the CIA, Zubayda would be the first to experience the CIA\u2019s own program of \u201cenhanced interrogation\u201d, the Bush administration\u2019s euphemism for torture. But first the FBI used their \u201crapport building\u201d techniques on Zubada and again elicited some useful information. Zubada revealed the nickname of 9-11\u2019s central planner, \u201cMukhtar\u201d (Khalid Sheikh Mohammed), and a description of gang member Jose Padilla who was subsequently arrested for planning a \u201cdirty\u201d bomb attack. Then the CIA transferred him to a \u201cblack site\u201d in Thailand. Black sites were secret CIA prisons which some countries offered in return for money or US favors. Zubada soon found himself naked in a small cage he later referred to as a \u201ctiny coffin.\u201d It was totally dark and not possible to stand or stretch. He never knew how many hours each session in the cage would Last. High-value prisoners reported being dosed with cold water and then subjected to extreme cold while naked. This was done with their ankles and wrists shackled pulling their arms overhead so they could only stand on their tiptoes. They could be left like this for hours and then have it repeated day after day for months. They were bombarded with bright lights and loud sounds and deprived of sleep for days. Some would be waterboarded in which the victims would feel like they are drowning inducing total terror. Naked, strapped so tightly to a board the head cannot move, the victim has water continuously poured over his mouth and nostrils while he gasps and gags. A favorite or torturers since the dark ages, Zubayda was the first to experience waterboarding by order of the President of the United States. The CIA actually filmed these sessions but destroyed the tapes before they could be used in a later criminal investigation by the Justice Department. Bush would claim \u201cenhanced interrogation\u201d was what led to the revelations about \u201cMukhtar\u201d and Jose Padilla, but in fact the FBI had gotten this information before the CIA took over. Bush claimed information leading to the capture of Al Qaeda leader Ramsi bin al Shibh and subsequently Khalid Sheikh Mohammed came from the program but in fact this lead came from the Emir of Qatar. The CIA prison in Guantanamo was established and by the summer of 2002 held 600 detainees. A senior CIA expert assigned to interview these prisoners determined that at least 200 of them had no connection to terrorism. Others put the estimate of innocent prisoners at over 50%. Few, probably less than 10% were directly involved with Al Qaeda. Many had been in the wrong place at the wrong time and were rounded up along with genuine suspects. Others were turned over by the Pakistanis for the generous bounties the CIA offered. But once in Guantanamo it was almost impossible to get out. And since most had no valuable information \u201cenhanced interrogation\u201d was needed to get them to finally come up with some. Interrogators were under tremendous pressure to get results. All the techniques were employed, sleep deprivation, blinding lights, shattering noise, confined positions, extreme temperatures, hooding, stripping, humiliation and fear. Detainee number 063 was Mohammed Mani\u2019 Ahmad Sha\u2019Lan al-Qahtani, the missing 20th 9-11 hijacker. He had been denied entry into the US by Customs at Orlando airport. Again the FBI made progress, confirming who he was and leading to another arrest and then DIA employee and chief of the military interrogation teams, Dave Becker, dissatisfied with the pace took over. After several months of enhanced interrogation Qahtani had stopped offering information and was reduced to crouching in a corner, hearing voices and talking to non-existent people. Qahtani was shackled, bolted to the floor and allowed only four hours sleep for 48 out of 54 days. He was forced to strip naked, wear a leash, perform dog tricks, and wear a bra and thong underwear on his head. Force fed liquids he was then denied a bathroom until he urinated on himself. Countless further humiliations and tortures were perpetrated for months with Qahtani becoming injured and seriously ill, but doctors were on hand to treat him so he could undergo more. 9-11 organizer Khalid Sheikh Mohammed when captured described Qahtani as \u201can unsophisticated Bedouin\u201d and \u201cextremely simple man\u201d who didn\u2019t even know what a visa was and \u201cdid not know the specifics of the operation\u201d and had \u201cvery limited information about his points of contact.\u201d Qahtani did not know who he was going to meet at the airport, but this is the question his interrogators demanded he answer. In January 2009 the Pentagon dropped all charges against Qahtani because his confession was not credible since he had been tortured. This was the first time any top official in the Bush administration acknowledged torturing detainees. However, Qahtani remains imprisoned at Guantanamo. Rumsfeld was furious that weapons of mass destruction had not been found in Iraq. He and the administration were totally surprised by the insurgency. Thus in August 2003 Rumsfeld sent Guantanamo Joint Task Force Commander General Geoffrey Miller and his \u201ctiger team\u201d to \u201cGitmoize\u201d Iraq. Miller centralized operations at Saddam Hussein\u2019s infamous Abu Ghraib prison. Much different from Guantanamo\u2019s population of hundreds of suspected terrorists, Abu Ghraib contained 6,000 prisoners of every kind including common petty criminals, captured ordinary soldiers and innocent people caught up in raids. No written policy for interrogation would be provided the interrogators. But the pressure was on. Dogs were brought in to help with the interrogations. A new category was established, \u201cghost prisoner\u201d. These were prisoners not recorded in any official record, so neither the Red Cross nor anyone else would know who they were. Some of these would be sent out for \u201cextraordinary rendition.\u201d CBS\u2019s 60 Minutes first exposed the torture of prisoners at Abu Ghraib in April 2004 showing pictures of naked hooded prisoners being tormented. But most devastating was the picture of a smiling soldier, Sabrina Harmon, giving the thumbs-up over the frozen corpse of Manadel al-Jamadi, who the CIA had beaten to death. Some in the administration did object to the widespread use of torture. Alberto Mora, General Counsel for the Navy and the entire TJAG group of senior uniformed lawyers strongly dissented from the administration policy but were silenced and then cut out of the loop as War Council members David Addington, DOD General Counsel William Haynes, Office of Legal Counsel lawyer John Yoo and White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales controlled dissent at the behest of Cheney with the blessing of Rumsfeld, and the approval of Bush. Rumsfeld and Bush would continue to make public statements that detainees were treated humanely. John Yoo left the Office of Legal Council in 2003. Jack Goldsmith became its head followed by Dan Levin. They along with others would try to scale back the torture policies of the administration but at each step they were outmaneuvered by Cheney, Addington and Gonzales. Others who stood up to no avail were Attorney General John Ashcroft and his Deputy, now FBI director, James Comey. In 2004 the Supreme Court ruled in two decisions that US law applied to Guantanamo. The administration essentially ignored the court. Many in Congress from Republican John McCain to Democrat Dick Durbin tried to rally Congress in opposition, but not until the next President, Barack Obama, took office would Bush\u2019s torture policies be officially rescinded. Not only did the Bush Administration\u2019s program frequently fail to produce useful intelligence, it produced a tremendous amount of misleading information wasting valuable resources and leading to false alarms. Many innocent people had their lives destroyed. The use of torture radicalized countless more terrorists and created more recruits for al Qaeda. America\u2019s image abroad and the hope that America provided for abused people around the world was severely damaged. ...more Eyeopening! Glad I opted to read this as it explained a lot of what I'd picked up in bits in pieces from other media over the years, but I thought to myself, \"No way! We have too many checks and balances for a single individual to take over.\" The author did a nice job of timelining what happened after September 11, 2001 and how key players and top officials were swept out of the way while Vice President Dick Cheney and his \"adviser\" David Addington took over The White House. In my opinion, David Eyeopening! Glad I opted to read this as it explained a lot of what I'd picked up in bits in pieces from other media over the years, but I thought to myself, \"No way! We have too many checks and balances for a single individual to take over.\" The author did a nice job of timelining what happened after September 11, 2001 and how key players and top officials were swept out of the way while Vice President Dick Cheney and his \"adviser\" David Addington took over The White House. In my opinion, David Addington, Dick Cheney and the other 4 members of the self-proclaimed \"War Council\" need to be held accountable for their actions. George Bush is ultimately responsible for allowing that group to take over and push his advisers under the rug along with completely ignoring the U.S. Constitution, the Geneva Convention and a slew of other documents and guidelines that SHOULD have prevented what happened. Mr. Bush couldn't have been that blind! Yes, desperate times called for desperate measures, but from what was described in The Dark Side a handful of power hungry people wanted to change our government system and give the President complete power to arrest, detain, and torture ANYONE for as long as he felt necessary without having to justify, inform, or put on trial. ANYONE--inside or outside the United States. U.S. citizen or not. WRONG. WRONG. WRONG. That meant that any of US could have been rounded up and thrown in prison at any time if there was even a slight hint or someone that didn't like us whispered in the right ear. Two words: Witch hunt. I can see how this would have been abused and used long after 9/11 and the \"detainees\" went off our radar. Three words: Abuse of power! Information in the book indicated two separate CIA and FBI detainee investigations revealed that maybe 50 prisoners were actually al-Queda members, but David Rumsfield, Condoleeza Rice and many other top officials refused to discuss it. We (freakin') paid Pakistan to round up people THEY thought were terrorists, so they rounded up people they didn't like just for our money. How wrong is that? To never be given a trial, never be told what they were charged with? We just went back several hundred years to a time our forefathers and veterans fought hard to have certain rights and in a few swirls of a pen, those rights were obliterated. What about prisoner number 001, John Walker Lindh? The evidence in this book indicates he was NOT a member of al-Queda. The American felt the need to go to Afghanistan and help fight against the Northern Alliance during a time when WE were giving aid to the Taliban--as was Saudi Arabia. He'd been over there for so long and out of touch. He was NOT in an al-Queda training camp. He was beaten and tortured (by US), his parents hired a lawyer for him and sent numerous letters to officials, including David Rumsfield, but they told him he had no lawyer. To play devil's advocate, even if he (or anyone else) were linked to al-Queda, the Geneva Convention, our countries HONOR, our U.S. Constitution....our founding fathers must have been rolling over in their graves to see what inhumane treatment....why didn't anyone try to re-educate some of the \"detainees\" to show them the better side of America? I refuse to call them \"enemy combatants.\" That's just dumb. Prisoners of war are prisoners of war. If it walks like a duck.... Have we not learned from history? Richard Nixon resigned before he could be impeached for behavior not as severe as what happened in our White House after 9/11. People need to be held accountable. What about the way people were bullied inside the political arena, demoted, lost jobs? I'm all for kicking some serious butt for what happened on 9/11, Somalia, on board the U.S.S. Cole to name a few, but we have to maintain our own integrity in the process. Reading The Dark Side had this American ashamed of her country for the first time in her life. The four stars were due to some rambling I thought the author did from time-to-time. The last half of the book could have been summed up in a few short chapters. ...more Required reading for every American. <---A>Jane Mayer</---A> documents how a handful of people in the Bush Administration changed the moral course of America and tarnished our global reputation in the name of \"keeping us safe.\" Benjamin Franklin said that those who would sacrifice liberty for safety deserver neither liberty nor safety. Well, that's pretty much where we are at. Yes, there have been no more attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11. But that \"safety\" was not a product of torture. Just because they got a Required reading for every American. Jane Mayer documents how a handful of people in the Bush Administration changed the moral course of America and tarnished our global reputation in the name of \"keeping us safe.\" Benjamin Franklin said that those who would sacrifice liberty for safety deserver neither liberty nor safety. Well, that's pretty much where we are at. Yes, there have been no more attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11. But that \"safety\" was not a product of torture. Just because they got a few ambitious people in the justice dept to declare their misguided intentions \"legal\" doesn't mean they were. And the techniques they all approved were and are torture. Disgraceful. Bush, Cheney, Addington, Rumsfeld, Yoo and a several others should be brought up on war crimes charges. And they should go to jail. Bill Clinton was impeached for \"lying\" about oral sex, yet these guys lied to get us in a war\u2014and the lied about so much else in the name of \"national security.\" We are Americans\u2014we're supposed to be better than our enemies. We are the example to the world. As The Dark Side shows, for the past seven years, we certainly have not been. Let's hope the next four years are better. ...more John Adams famously described the American government as one of \"laws, not of men.\" In eight years, the Bush Administration has reacted to the attacks of September 11, 2001, by turning that dictum on its head in their zeal to ensure that another attack does not occur on their watch. In particular, the President's confidence that he is a \"good man,\" has led him to embrace the advice of a ruthless cabal within the United States government whose first article of faith is that there are no limitatio John Adams famously described the American government as one of \"laws, not of men.\" In eight years, the Bush Administration has reacted to the attacks of September 11, 2001, by turning that dictum on its head in their zeal to ensure that another attack does not occur on their watch. In particular, the President's confidence that he is a \"good man,\" has led him to embrace the advice of a ruthless cabal within the United States government whose first article of faith is that there are no limitations on presidential power in a \"time of war.\" Jane Mayer's excellent book on the prosecution of the so-called \"War on Terror\" is a \"must read\" not primarily because it reveals new information: many of the facts have already been exposed in the nation's media, including in some of Mayer's own articles for the New Yorker. Rather, this book adds two essential dimensions to the national debate on the government's actions. First, it describes the political and legal decisions of the White House, the Vice President's Office, the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel, and the Attorney General to reinterpret, and subvert, the Constitution, the Geneva Conventions, and the criminal statutes of the United States with horrific consequences. Second, in describing those consequences, it paints a far more vivid picture of the gruesome consequences of the torture policy than the press's usual glib invocation of \"water boarding.\" As the book describes, Vice President Dick Cheney's unprecedented ability to control the flow and content of information to the president, coupled with the weight his advice has been given, put him in a unique position to guide the direction of the Administration's policy toward \"enemy combatants\" captured on the battlefield or subsequently abducted. With Cheney's aide David Addington as the architect in chief, the administration concluded, under the cover of John Yoo's memoranda from the Justice Department, that any limits on the president's power to order torture \u2014 whether law or treaty \u2014 could be set aside on the grounds that they were subordinate to the president's constitutional powers as Commander in Chief. On the basis of a superficially plausible theory, generally rejected by expert opinion, that the most effective way to obtain information is to inflict a maximum of pain, the Administration provided the C.I.A. with authorized methods of torture, many of which had hitherto been acknowledged in the United States and elsewhere to constitute war crimes. To the extent these failed to achieve results, the Administration pushed for the infliction of more pain. To the extent its actions were opposed or questioned, the Administration made demonstrably false claims about the effectiveness of its illegal methods in obtaining actionable intelligence. To the extent that military lawyers in the Judge Advocate General's office and other lawyers risked their careers to restore the rule of law, the seasoned bureaucratic infighters in the Vice President's office, particularly Addington, fought back ferociously. Mayer is no less thorough in describing the hair-raising consequences of the Administration's legal decisions. In constructing their refined programs of systematic cruelty, the C.I.A. and the military drew upon the military's training programs developed to counter Chinese Communist \"brainwashing\" and the C.I.A.'s massive experiments on the effects of prolonged sensory deprivation during the Vietnam War. Impressed by the ability of the Communist regimes to force false confessions from prisoners at show trials in the 50's, the military had researched Communist torture programs in depth in order to train its soldiers to resist as much as possible through its Survival, Evasion, Resistance, Escape (SERE) program. In a diabolical twist, the C.I.A. and the military used the lessons of the SERE program to devise an affirmative program of torture designed to extract information from detainees. The fact that torture techniques had proved useful in the past primarily for forcing false confessions does not seem to have given the C.I.A. much pause. Combined with the C.I.A.'s own research into the effectiveness of sensory deprivation in creating total mental breakdown and introducing a schizophrenic state, these techniques were used to inflict a maximum of pain on detainees in the expressed hope of extracting information and (usually unexpressed) hope of exacting revenge. In reading the book, one gets a full sense of the brutal consequences of these techniques in combination , and the savagery with which our government's interrogators redoubled the pain they inflicted when they did not get the results they wanted. To the extent there were any limits on the suffering our intelligence service imposed, those limits were cast aside when the C.I.A. delivered detainees through \"extraordinary rendition\" to the secret police of Arab dictatorships such as Egypt and Syria. Jane Mayer's compelling work thus documents not only how vital, and how fragile, is the rule of law, but also reminds us of the terrible consequences that ensue when it breaks down. ...more At the end of WW2, Europe was devastated, Germany in particular. It had reaped what it had sowed. German prestige was non-existent after the horrors of Nazism and the prestige of the United States could not have been higher. The whole world looked to the U.S. for the future. Just last week, I saw a ranking of countries in world public opinion. Germany was by far and away number one and the United States was well down the list. Less than 75 years after being at the top, the U.S. has been easily su At the end of WW2, Europe was devastated, Germany in particular. It had reaped what it had sowed. German prestige was non-existent after the horrors of Nazism and the prestige of the United States could not have been higher. The whole world looked to the U.S. for the future. Just last week, I saw a ranking of countries in world public opinion. Germany was by far and away number one and the United States was well down the list. Less than 75 years after being at the top, the U.S. has been easily surpassed by a country that was despised. Power and empire are intimately involved. Germany repudiated the corrupting combination of military power and global domination as the U.S. embraced it. Jane Meyer's book is an account of how a few people at the top, stung by the attack of 9/11, filled with a sense of outrage, fearful of further attacks, but at the same time drunk on the idea that nothing could limit a U.S. president, decided to repudiate the respect for law built up over two centuries, and dropped into the abyss, the dark side. Now you would think conservatives, being the law-and-order folks they claim to be, would be the last ones to show contempt for the law. But there is something about conservatives that might provide a clue to a weak spot: they are adamant about the law applying to others, yet consider themselves so upstanding and their motivations so patently correct that their own behavior, in their own eyes, might be considered so worthy as to be law itself. Led by Dick Cheney and his un-elected aide, the imperious, brow-beating, physically imposing, reclusive David Addington, the simple thinking of President G. W. Bush was directed, with his eager participation, down a path to kidnapping and torture that spread like a virus from the CIA to the military. It produced no significant positive results but a host of negatives including a lying president (\"we don't torture\"), Guantanamo, the atrocity of Abu Ghraib and the destruction of the physical and mental health of innocent people, ground up in a system that knew no bounds. Richard Nixon was properly denounced for his excesses in the use of power, widely known for his comment that if the president does it, it's legal. However, though he and his aides circumvented the law, they knew the law and were attorneys. In the case of G. W. Bush, the law itself was corrupted through the convenient interpretations of attorney John Yoo, an employee at the office of Legal Counsel (OLC) eager to comply with the wishes of Cheney and Addington. This office, intended to advise the president on the legality of proposed policy, was instead subverted into a place to re-interpret law to give the appearance of legality to anything and everything the chief executive wanted to do. This spat in the face of the long legal tradition the United States had professed to uphold in a chaotic world. It threw the doctrine of separation of power out the window allowing the president a tyranny the founding fathers were adamant to prevent. The detailed account Meyer provides leaves no aspect of this legal lawlessness un-examined. The reader sees into the operations of the CIA, the Department of Defense and the Department of Justice. You will understand torture in detail, the methods and the history of the effort to prevent its use prior to 9/11. From a discussion of the Geneva Conventions to the aircraft numbers on the Gulfstream jet used to \"render\" kidnapped suspects to hellish black sites in foreign countries, the whole dark story is here, including the famous Ashcroft sickbed showdown. Never tedious, always finding just the right amount of detail, clearly describing each person and subject at hand, Meyer expertly puts to paper the results of her voluminous research. This book is historical documentation at the highest level. I just wish it had the subtitle \"conservatives gone wild\". ...more Well, I finished the book. Quick read, and most of it I had read already in the pages of The New Yorker . Still, it is nice and convenient to have Jane Mayer's articles all in one continuous narrative. The book, needless to say, is quite harrowing. There is no doubt that the American Government is torturing. Bush, Cheney, et alia have all admitted as much, only they don't, of course, use the word \"torture\", thinking like little school kids if they avoid the word they'll also avoid punishment. Ins Well, I finished the book. Quick read, and most of it I had read already in the pages of The New Yorker . Still, it is nice and convenient to have Jane Mayer's articles all in one continuous narrative. The book, needless to say, is quite harrowing. There is no doubt that the American Government is torturing. Bush, Cheney, et alia have all admitted as much, only they don't, of course, use the word \"torture\", thinking like little school kids if they avoid the word they'll also avoid punishment. Instead, they use euphemisms, all too familiar to us now, like \"Enhanced Interrogations Techniques\" or \"Dunking\" (as if waterboarding were something you do at a carnival). One of the useful services that this book performs is to describe in stomach-churning detail what those Orwellian Euphemisms are masking, and it is nothing other than torture and cruelty upon the defenceless. Bush, Cheney, Addington, and Yoo (whose pseudo-legal paeans to dictatorial power were used to justify the unconscionable) are obvious war criminals, and I hope to God they someday are treated as such. By the way, the administration will often use the ticking bomb argument to justify the use of interrogation methods specifically proscribed by the Army Field Manual. Everyone knows this argument now because of the popularity of that piece of fascist propoganda, known as 24 . There is going to a massive terrorist attack in the next few minutes, if not seconds. You have caught an important member of the plot who has the 411 on how to stop the attack, but he's not talking. The sound effects of a ticking digital clock are only getting louder. What do you do? You inflict severe, intense, anguishing pain upon the motherfucker until he sings, human rights be damned because human rights will only get entire cities with their innocent populations destroyed. So, the Bush Administration says pretty much that if we don't use these extraordinary interrogation methods, i.e. torture, we will have another 9/11. And many people find this argument credible just because they think Jack Bauer is way cool. But this is complete bullshit for at least two reasons: 1) It implies that 9/11 happened because of our bleeding hearts, and that's false. It happened because of massive incompetence (which I am inclined to think was deliberate). 2) If we were really worried about the next imminent attack, then we would be using totally different torture techniques. Most if not all of the \"Enhanced Interrogation Techniques\" that the Bushies insist are keeping us safe were designed to extract confessions and not information about imminent events. If you want information about imminent attacks, you don't put a guy in a cell and deprive him of sleep or blare ear-splittingly loud music at him for weeks, if not months, on end. You want the information before his partners in crime get wind of his capture and change their plans. Therefore, you want information as quickly as possible. Sleep deprivation, sensory deprivation, disorientation, etc. all take weeks to work (if they work at all, that is), and you like Jack Bauer have only seconds. This ticking bomb argument cannot justify the use of the long term torture techniques that we are now using. In fact, nothing can. They don't even produce reliable confessions. Even if they did, no court--except, perhaps, Bush's kangaroo military tribunals--would accept them. The only reason why we are using these \"Enhanced Interrogation Techniques\" is because we are really sick fucks. ...more This book makes my blood boil. These people, who not only authorized torture, but encouraged it, have disgraced our country and screwed up our struggle against jihadism. It is a story of incompetence and arrogance, centered on the Vice Presidency and the VP's grey eminence, David Addington. Notable in the book are the stories of honorable men with military and conservative backgrounds who could not stomach what was going on and resisted it. Also notable is the argument that torture, ultimately, is This book makes my blood boil. These people, who not only authorized torture, but encouraged it, have disgraced our country and screwed up our struggle against jihadism. It is a story of incompetence and arrogance, centered on the Vice Presidency and the VP's grey eminence, David Addington. Notable in the book are the stories of honorable men with military and conservative backgrounds who could not stomach what was going on and resisted it. Also notable is the argument that torture, ultimately, is ineffective because victims will and did say anything to make the pain stop. If it worked, we would have to have recourse to some kind of moral calculus--how much torture can we inflict to save so many lives, at such-and-such levels of probability and certainty? The claim that torture is ineffective, or at least yields unreliable information (which I believe to be generally true), avoids those dilemmas. Barack, appoint me Special Prosecutor. ...more A painstaking and just amazingly detailed account of how extreme rendition (in English, kidnapping) and extreme interrogation (in English, torture) came to be public policy in the current administration. I can\u2019t say you\u2019ll enjoy reading this book, but it\u2019s a book that should be read, at the very least as a cautionary tale as to just how far things can go wrong when nobody\u2019s watching. It is reassuring to report that there are heroes, like David Brant, the head of NCIS, Alberto Mora, Counsel to th A painstaking and just amazingly detailed account of how extreme rendition (in English, kidnapping) and extreme interrogation (in English, torture) came to be public policy in the current administration. I can\u2019t say you\u2019ll enjoy reading this book, but it\u2019s a book that should be read, at the very least as a cautionary tale as to just how far things can go wrong when nobody\u2019s watching. It is reassuring to report that there are heroes, like David Brant, the head of NCIS, Alberto Mora, Counsel to the US Navy, the FBI agents who refused to have anything to do with the torture, and all those administration attorneys who, while they were hired because they had the correct conservative credentials nevertheless knew that kidnapping and torture are wrong, unconstitutional and unAmerican, and who fought the good fight against this program, some of them from the beginning, and some of whom were fired or forced to quit because of it. [Three stars because I can't say I really liked it.] ...more Mayer tells her story slowly, deliberately, carefully placing interview upon interview until we are faced with a pile of facts so distastful that it is difficult to imagine we turned faces away for so long. It is true we \"didn't know,\" but the secrecy surrounding the internal operations of the White House is no excuse for allowing what we all may have suspected--that we were losing our moral high ground in the war against terror by stooping so low as to disregard our own, and international laws, Mayer tells her story slowly, deliberately, carefully placing interview upon interview until we are faced with a pile of facts so distastful that it is difficult to imagine we turned faces away for so long. It is true we \"didn't know,\" but the secrecy surrounding the internal operations of the White House is no excuse for allowing what we all may have suspected--that we were losing our moral high ground in the war against terror by stooping so low as to disregard our own, and international laws, in order to fight a virally-organized group of people that hated us for our excesses--the very excesses we were proving to be unequivocably true. ...more We had high expectations of this work, which though perhaps unfair, were disappointed. Hoping for a fierce and well ordered indictment, though indictment there was what we all too often found ourselves upon was a more-or-less (given the inherent difficulty of access) complete, but often scattered, episodic and anecdotal tour of the federal legal bureaucracy as it dealt with the possession and interrogation of captives in the G.W. Bush administration\u2019s \u201cWar on Terror.\u201d Here are sips and hints of We had high expectations of this work, which though perhaps unfair, were disappointed. Hoping for a fierce and well ordered indictment, though indictment there was what we all too often found ourselves upon was a more-or-less (given the inherent difficulty of access) complete, but often scattered, episodic and anecdotal tour of the federal legal bureaucracy as it dealt with the possession and interrogation of captives in the G.W. Bush administration\u2019s \u201cWar on Terror.\u201d Here are sips and hints of the niceties of the private arguments, worries and justifications the final effects of which Mr. Kafka has so well earlier described. Presumably one should not expect a volume admittedly rooted in a dozen or more long-format periodical pieces written over 5 years\u2019 time to read with the focus or structure of a formal brief, and indeed it does not. At times in fact, we could not escape the feeling of having been thrown into a slightly breathless spy novel, but of the legal governmental sort. And at times it oddly seemed that Mr. Cheney\u2019s most egregious fault may have been his lack of a law degree. If one remains under the misapprehension that the US federal government, acting from the highest levels, does not only systematically and on a global scale brutally kidnap, torture, and likely murder as a matter of conscious policy but then also simultaneously lie about and legally justify the same, we would recommend reading of this work. If however one awaits a conclusive \u201cJ'accuse\u201d on the US government\u2019s 2001-2008 captive policy (as we do), The Dark Side, not surprisingly, falls a bit short. The book is, however, an illuminating glance at the meaning and methods of \u201crule by law\u201d in the most explicitly legalistic national culture of the 21st century \u2013 and perhaps the most extensive, coherent and fully ramified legal ecology in all of human history thus far. For instance: surprisingly little of the consideration described in the volume occurs in the courts. Largely we are witness to argument and deliberation within the nests of lawyers within, among other venues, the various separate and multiple legal offices of the Justice Department, the Department of State, the Department of Defense, the offices of the President and Vice-President, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the US Army, Navy, the various Judge Advocate General's Corps, the CIA, the NSA, the NSC, the DIA, the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI, etc. The populations involved seem enormous: it could be supposed that the number of lawyers and staff of the entities cited number in the many thousands. And it is worth remembering that these represent a mere sliver of the federal executive legal enterprise\u2026 As Publius Mauritius is once noted to have said: \u201cTruly until that day when all possible men, animals and works of the earth, and all possible intercourse amongst them, according to their vital qualities, have been fully enumerated, the work of the law has barely begun.\u201d (Mauritius, On the Persians, IV 348-9) - Carl and Louisa Dorsch ...more For me, Mayer's book brought to mind a line from Yeats (one of my favorite poets)...\"The best lack all conviction, while the worst / Are full of passionate intensity.\" In this case, it's Cheney, Rumsfeld, John Yoo, David Addington, and a host of other White House appointees whose dogmatic belief that coersion and torture are the only way to extract information from alleged terrorists (despite hard evidence to contrary - the best evidence we got out of anyone came from FBI interrogators, using ol For me, Mayer's book brought to mind a line from Yeats (one of my favorite poets)...\"The best lack all conviction, while the worst / Are full of passionate intensity.\" In this case, it's Cheney, Rumsfeld, John Yoo, David Addington, and a host of other White House appointees whose dogmatic belief that coersion and torture are the only way to extract information from alleged terrorists (despite hard evidence to contrary - the best evidence we got out of anyone came from FBI interrogators, using old-fashioned police work, criminal investigation, and a rapport-building interrogation technique). Mayer traces the development of the infamous Bybee/Yoo torture memo and the establishment of a policy of \"enhanced techniques\" in interrogation (i.e., waterboarding), as well as the valiant efforts of many military, Justice Department, FBI, and Pentagon attorneys to reverse course and put a stop to what they saw as cruel and inhumate treatment at best, and outright torture and war crimes at worst. While Cheney, Yoo, and Addington basically put the Constitution through a shredder and throw the Gevena Conventions out the window, it's the protests of many loyal Republican attorneys that I found most heartening. The uniformed military attorneys in particular understood the damage that these interrogation and detention policies (black sites, Guantanamo) had on American's standing in the world, and our ability to bring any accused terrorist to justice. This, combined with Kafka Comes to America, truly brings to light the damage that we've done to our country's values over the last 7 years - largely out of paranoia (there was some serious bunker mentality going on) and fear - and these things aren't actually making us safer (again, we mostly get false confessions from the CIA's \"enhanced\" techniques - there's a euphamism for ya). I think reading this seriously made my blood pressure go up, but this, Wax's book, and seeing Obama speak yesterday made me realize just how much work we've got to do as a country to restore what is we've always stood for - and how important that is. Now, I'm off to read a book about an adorable library cat to restore my faith in the world. ...more I heard and read about some of the main facts written in this book, but when Jane Mayer put the story altogether I became even more sickened by the administration's (Cheney and Addington's) authorization of the capture and torture of suspected terrorists, keeping them without charges of crimes in order to keep their illegal activities secret in Guantanamo and other hidden torture sites throughout the world. (When the stories leaked out, they then attempted to grant immunity to themselves and tho I heard and read about some of the main facts written in this book, but when Jane Mayer put the story altogether I became even more sickened by the administration's (Cheney and Addington's) authorization of the capture and torture of suspected terrorists, keeping them without charges of crimes in order to keep their illegal activities secret in Guantanamo and other hidden torture sites throughout the world. (When the stories leaked out, they then attempted to grant immunity to themselves and those who followed out their orders.) But the most frightening part of the book to me was to learn how the Vice President and his legal counsel, Addington, set themselves up above the law and Constitution. These tyrants specifically directed the Office of General Counsel to write a document saying what they did was lawful--and then kept it hidden from other OGC lawyers,under the guise of of \"National Security.\" Cheney kept the flow of information away from the President and told him the Geneva Convention laws did not apply and the torture was legal He played on Bush's trigger points so the President would sign off on the illegal actions. George W. Bush should have been impeached, and then Cheney along with him. Now they should be prosecuted against for war crimes and crimes against the laws of the land. To do otherwise will destroy the best things the people of the United States have--their Constitution, their civil rights, their freedom, and their democracy. ...more The Dark Side, that name conjures up many images from the Bush presidency. Unlike many books that dealt with this subject, this one seems largely free of political bias and presents information in a clear, neutral way. From the very beginning, when 9/11 happened, you get the sense that something bad was about to happen, and indeed it does. The political disaster that was going to grip Washington, and the United States, was a kind of perfect storm that The Dark Side examines. Not only did the adm The Dark Side, that name conjures up many images from the Bush presidency. Unlike many books that dealt with this subject, this one seems largely free of political bias and presents information in a clear, neutral way. From the very beginning, when 9/11 happened, you get the sense that something bad was about to happen, and indeed it does. The political disaster that was going to grip Washington, and the United States, was a kind of perfect storm that The Dark Side examines. Not only did the administration throw away core ideals that have existed since the Revolution, but it seems as though many of the players involved were just waiting for an opportunity to instituate an imperial presidency. While reading this book, I experienced anger, sadness, and shock at what our leaders were willing to do. For all of this to happen, many pieces had to co-exist at the same time, such as a national disaster that led to reactionary, not rational, decisions, cronyism, incompetence, lawyers that argued on behalf of their client and not the law, an easily manipulated president, a Congress with powers similar to that of the Byzantine Senate, and high-ranking government officials who wanted a monarchical executive. This is a must read for anyone interested in post 9/11 politics. ...more I guess I'm getting to be squarely middle-aged; I find these days I'm tearing through non-fiction of a political nature -- books that help me secure my place in these insane times. Mayer's book is dense, detailed, and disturbing. I can't figure out whether this kind of writing is politically partisan ... or if it's just a case of the scary f***king truth being succinctly reported. It was helpful for a scatter-brained reader like myself to hop around a bit from section to section, then circle bac I guess I'm getting to be squarely middle-aged; I find these days I'm tearing through non-fiction of a political nature -- books that help me secure my place in these insane times. Mayer's book is dense, detailed, and disturbing. I can't figure out whether this kind of writing is politically partisan ... or if it's just a case of the scary f***king truth being succinctly reported. It was helpful for a scatter-brained reader like myself to hop around a bit from section to section, then circle back for any detail that I thought might be entertaining, but I got through the whole enchilada in record time. The chapter that lays out the history, philosophy, and examples of \"extraordinary rendition\" is more thrilling than any movie or fiction piece I've taken in lately -- the truth can chill you to the core. Oh, yeah. I forgot to mention that this book confirms Dick Cheney really IS a bad, bad guy. To characterize him as a \"sinister\" figure would be a gross understatement. It'll make you shake your head. ...more The only book (ok, aside from the series that included Zizek's little book) about 911 I've ever read. It'll probably remain that way for some time, but this is a great work of journalistic history. It made me understand things about the Bush administration (or, according to this book's overarching argument, the Cheney administration) that I never fully grasped. A lot of the broad strokes here we all know already, but it makes such a difference to read them in a succinct historical narrative inst The only book (ok, aside from the series that included Zizek's little book) about 911 I've ever read. It'll probably remain that way for some time, but this is a great work of journalistic history. It made me understand things about the Bush administration (or, according to this book's overarching argument, the Cheney administration) that I never fully grasped. A lot of the broad strokes here we all know already, but it makes such a difference to read them in a succinct historical narrative instead of a zeitgeist of nyt articles and tv cut-ups. A lot of shit went down, and it really looks like the list of culpable people is shorter than I thought, and it broke my heart to read about all the theretofore loyal conservatives who actually tried to STOP what was going on because it was so obviously horribly wrong. ...more After the 9/11/2001 terrorist attacks, the United States declared a War on Terror. A bunch of right-wing lawyers working in the Bush administration decided that, unlike in America's other wars such as World War II and Vietnam, the people fighting for the other side have no rights. This included soldiers of the Taliban, the de facto government of almost all of Afghanistan. Several hundred people were seized, held without due process, mistreated and often tortured in the legal offshore zone of Gua After the 9/11/2001 terrorist attacks, the United States declared a War on Terror. A bunch of right-wing lawyers working in the Bush administration decided that, unlike in America's other wars such as World War II and Vietnam, the people fighting for the other side have no rights. This included soldiers of the Taliban, the de facto government of almost all of Afghanistan. Several hundred people were seized, held without due process, mistreated and often tortured in the legal offshore zone of Guantanamo, in Afghanistan, in Egypt and Syria, where there were delivered by the Americans, and in secret prisons in undetermined locations in Eastern Europe. A few of them were genuine terrorists, such as Khalid Sheikh Muhammed, the mastermind of the 9/11/2001 attacks. The overwhelming majority were random Arabs and Muslims, such as a wealthy Kuwaiti businessman who did charitable work in a different Muslim country each year, and just happened to be in Afghanistan in 2001; he was held in Guantanamo for 7 1/2 years; when released, he pledged never to buy another Cadillac. Now, the Israelis have long known that the best way to get a terrorist to talk is to offer him \"kesef, kavod ve-kusit\" (money, respect and a woman); torture does not help because a tortured man will confess to anything to stop the torture, whether true or false. The Americans ignored this experience, and proceeded to torture detainees, with the approval from the highest levels of government. Some of the torture procedures came from the Army manual for prospective POWs about resisting torture; some came from the training manuals for Cold War-era Central American death squads; also, in a surprising case of life-imitates-art, some American officials at Guantanamo turned for ideas to \"24\", a fantasy TV show about a secret agent fighting terrorists that was written by a Hollywood screenwriter with no military or intelligence experience. A lot of the mental torture, which this book describes in disgusting detail, had to do with nakedness or sodomy: sedating a hogtied man with anal suppositories, administering enemas by force, holding a detainee naked for long periods of time; whoever came up with this stuff must have had some psychosexual problems of his own. After Barack Obama became U.S. President, one of the first thing he did was to shut down the secret prisons in Eastern Europe, to nullify the legal memoranda authorizing torture, and to give the International Red Cross access to all detainees. He also promised to shut down Guantanamo; however, the U.S. Congress declined to give the funding for this, since no American politician wants to appear soft on terrorism. While some soldiers involved in the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal were punished (Specialist Lynndie England, who walked around with an Iraqi on a leash, got 3 years in prison), no one from the CIA or from Guantanamo was, presumably because under the interpretation of law done by the Bush administration's legal advisers, what they did was legal. ...more Not since I read Naomi Klein\u2019s The Shock Doctrine have I clenched my fists while reading. Jane Mayer\u2019s vitriolic political investigation is a fitting companion piece to Klein\u2019s humanist manifesto, detailing the gruesome policies that were unlawfully created in the wake of the September 11 attacks. Through countless interviews and in-depth character description, Mayer shows how a country\u2019s human rights record was irreperably damaged by a paranoid and deceptive government, willing to pay any pric Not since I read Naomi Klein\u2019s The Shock Doctrine have I clenched my fists while reading. Jane Mayer\u2019s vitriolic political investigation is a fitting companion piece to Klein\u2019s humanist manifesto, detailing the gruesome policies that were unlawfully created in the wake of the September 11 attacks. Through countless interviews and in-depth character description, Mayer shows how a country\u2019s human rights record was irreperably damaged by a paranoid and deceptive government, willing to pay any price for revenge. Mayer\u2019s book contains the typical cast of characters in their all-too-familiar roles. President Bush, though nicknaming himself \u2018the Decider\u2019, is usually far from the facts and is guided only by Dick Cheney\u2019s briefings. However, I was introduced to a new lineup of villains, who together with Cheney were responsible for America\u2019s bloodlust in the chaotic years that followed September 11. The Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) is depicted in The Dark Side as having near unrestricted powers. One imagines that laws are created by Congress as long as they adhere to the Constitution. The OLC, however, has the power to change the meaning, context or purpose of any law or section of the Constitution to meet a particular agenda. Mayer shows how quite often, these reinterpretations, usually executed by David Addington or John Yoo, were so questionable or lacking in substantiating precedent, that they would be done in secret, bypassing the necessary chain of approval and handed straight to Bush. This is how the White House, in short, approved torture as legal. This loathsome process that sought to not only undermine Congressional order and authority but also the Geneva Conventions is only half of Mayer\u2019s book. The remaining half tells the harrowing accounts of detainees in black sites, including Guant\u00e1namo and Abu Ghraib, focusing on both the brutal methods employed and the issues \u2013 moral and legal \u2013 faced by the perpetrators. At one point, Mayer quotes a source as saying that the years after 9/11 were a \u201cbattle for America\u2019s soul\u201d, an idea which is reflected in the various organizations that had to compromise, sacrifice or even reject their values. The CIA under the command of Cheney and his legal counsel, decided they were above the law and that the American legal process was too slow to uncover information fast enough; SERE (Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape), a government program meant to train soldiers to withstand the stress of foreign labor or torture camps, was soon recruited to teach harsh interrogation tactics; even on-site doctors unequivocally broke their Hippocratic Oath by not servicing their fellow man. These days, it\u2019s very easy to look to George W. Bush and accuse him of war crimes. But Mayer seldom refers to Bush himself in this book. Instead, she locks in on the lesser known players, David Addington, John Yoo, Alberto Gonzales and George Tenet, showing how their wanton disregard for human decency led to legal quagmires, burdensome misinformation, and a soiled presidential legacy. ...more Vice President Cheney indicated that the U.S. might have to cross over to \"the dark side\" in order to fight terrorism effectively. This book provides a good in-depth review of those decisions, their effects and effectiveness. We've all heard and read a lot about the effectivenss of torture in questioning prisoners, and whether the enhanced interrogation techniques that had been used in Iraq and Guantanamo, or in secret renditions to other nations, have been legal or effective. Many of our Nation Vice President Cheney indicated that the U.S. might have to cross over to \"the dark side\" in order to fight terrorism effectively. This book provides a good in-depth review of those decisions, their effects and effectiveness. We've all heard and read a lot about the effectivenss of torture in questioning prisoners, and whether the enhanced interrogation techniques that had been used in Iraq and Guantanamo, or in secret renditions to other nations, have been legal or effective. Many of our Nations leaders, especially military men like John McCain and Colin Powell have stated that the enhanced interrogation techniques used in questioning prisoners by the CIA constitute torture, and are both illegal and ineffective. Other in the administration, especially non-military men like Dick Cheney and his staff and President Bush, disagree. Bush has stated our interrogation techniques are \"legal\". This book provides the insights on how \"legal\" became defined within his administration, and just how many, or how few, individuals were involved in those decisions and policies. Many conservative staunch Republicans are described as rebelling and resigning their administration posts in protests to the decisions being made. And there are excellent examples discussed describing the type of information extracted using waterboarding or other techniques, including obtaining pre-Iraq invasion information which supported the decision to go to war. The victim told interviewers what they wanted to hear just to stop the interrogations, and later admitted fabricating information just to get them to stop. John Yoo, David Addington, and Dick Cheney in particular are identified as the key players in this administrations policies, and much of what is presented is disturbing to say the least. I found the book well written, well documented, and worth pondering. Note: [March, 2012 update: For an extremely informative and interesting view on the contrasting interrogation techniques used, by an FBI terrorist investigator, look at the September, 2011 book by Ali Soufan, \"The Black Banners: The Inside Story of 9/11 and the War Against Al-Qaeda\"]. ...more I found in this book a great deal of often scattered information. Much of it I was already familiar with from other people's investigations of the torture policy of the White House and of clandestine U.S. interrogation research since WWII. The book did little to pull together Ms. Mayer's discoveries or provide a coherent narrative. I found myself creating a timeline to keep track of who knew what when, said what to whom when, etc. It may be a book helpful to military and presidential historians, I found in this book a great deal of often scattered information. Much of it I was already familiar with from other people's investigations of the torture policy of the White House and of clandestine U.S. interrogation research since WWII. The book did little to pull together Ms. Mayer's discoveries or provide a coherent narrative. I found myself creating a timeline to keep track of who knew what when, said what to whom when, etc. It may be a book helpful to military and presidential historians, indeed I found a couple pieces I hadn't read in the bibliography, but it is not yet the final word on this torture policy. Indeed, I'm following this book with the very different Woodward book, The War Within, and I'm finding that the two books in some ways contradict and complement each other. Neither is complete; both bog down in their own minutiae. This is however about what you'd expect from journalism, and so it is worth reading if you have an interest in torture policy or the Bush presidency. If it is the only book you read, or even if it's not, you walk away pondering the likelihood that from the very top of the American government, elected and appointed political figures were intensely involved in gathering--by ANY means necessary--information about attacks on America and American facilities and troops. The very men and women sworn to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law appear to have been the Americans most involved in shredding our values and ideals. As this book points out, there were men and women who stood against these efforts, but they tended to be career government officials. These men and women have brought enormous shame on America, and there is growing evidence of which this book is a part that grand juries ought to be called to investigate the actions of dozens of people at the top of our government. ...more Mayer systematically and stylistically uncovers one of the ugliest chapters in U.S. history: the torture of suspected terrorists by the CIA and the Armed Forces. Amazing, and ugly. An apostasy of legal and moral reasoning gave the whole affair the barest of veneers of justice. And the waterboarding wasn't the worst part. The experts say that the sensory deprivation and solitary confinement are far worse. After 48 hours you go insane, start slamming your head against the wall. The CIA made some s Mayer systematically and stylistically uncovers one of the ugliest chapters in U.S. history: the torture of suspected terrorists by the CIA and the Armed Forces. Amazing, and ugly. An apostasy of legal and moral reasoning gave the whole affair the barest of veneers of justice. And the waterboarding wasn't the worst part. The experts say that the sensory deprivation and solitary confinement are far worse. After 48 hours you go insane, start slamming your head against the wall. The CIA made some suspects stand for a month, their hands chained to pipes above their heads. One man was waterboarded 187 times without giving anyone anything they could work with. You can say, \"They deserved it,\" and you'd be entitled to that opinion, but here's another problem: All the expert evidence comes out against torture on pragmatic grounds. Pain ain't fun. No one wants to endure it. KSM, one of the masterminds behind 9/11, gave all kinds of false information to the CIA about targeted malls and bridges when they started to make him feel like he was drowning over and over. Torture elicits false statements. The FBI, mostly through Ali Soufan, had drawn out \"actionable intelligence\" without any threats or physical abuse. Hands-off interrogation has been their tradition and the tradition of the U.S. military for a long time. It's also illegal. It's against the Geneva Conventions, the U.S.'s own executive orders in the 1950s and 90s, and the Uniform Code of Military Justice. And finally, it's immoral. It would be wrong even if we got good information from it. It was wrong when the North Vietnamese did it to John McCain, and it's wrong now. George Washington knew it was wrong; that's why he ordered his men to treat the captured British soldiers with dignity and compassion. Mayer's book is mandatory reading. ...more This is a page turner. Well written, and reasonably well organized. And juicy. I knew quite a bit of it from listening to interviews with the author, but it hadn't sunk in in the same way. I enjoyed remembering where I was when a piece of news broke, or a decision was handed down (particularly Hamdan), and reading about the background. Of course, now Obama's in, and Bush is out so there's less need to read this material, right? You know these people want to get back in. You know there will be an This is a page turner. Well written, and reasonably well organized. And juicy. I knew quite a bit of it from listening to interviews with the author, but it hadn't sunk in in the same way. I enjoyed remembering where I was when a piece of news broke, or a decision was handed down (particularly Hamdan), and reading about the background. Of course, now Obama's in, and Bush is out so there's less need to read this material, right? You know these people want to get back in. You know there will be another Republican Administration in 4, 8, 12 years. The country needs to remember, with clarity, why we (well, more than half the electorate) rejected these policies... so there isn't nostalgia for Bush's \"moral clarity\" of torturing people to death, to minimize the inevitable backlash when the inevitable next attack comes, and to keep these people out of political power. Just like Cheney came back, the rest of the \"torture team\" as Sands would have it will try to come back. Which would be a bit like... Bush getting re-elected. ...more Awesome account of former VP Cheney as anti-Christ, leading the \"fight\" against terrorism regardless of the impact on America's fundamental principles of justice. It struck me as frightening that one person on a crusade properly positioned in the White House could undermine our rights and liberties as Americans. I asked Jane Meyer at a book signing if she thought our trip to the dark side would have happened without Cheney in the White House. \"Interesting question,\" she said. \"I think after 9-11 Awesome account of former VP Cheney as anti-Christ, leading the \"fight\" against terrorism regardless of the impact on America's fundamental principles of justice. It struck me as frightening that one person on a crusade properly positioned in the White House could undermine our rights and liberties as Americans. I asked Jane Meyer at a book signing if she thought our trip to the dark side would have happened without Cheney in the White House. \"Interesting question,\" she said. \"I think after 9-11 he was a changed man.\" What disturbs me is how Cheney's paranoia became America's. SH ...more I am painfully, inexcusably naive regarding the unimaginable, horrific measures and policies that the United States engaged in during The War on Terror. This book took me down the terrible trek of reality. The reality of the torture we committed and to what end? I know that were I tortured, as this book illuminates, I would confess to anything to end it. This is my first exposure to the writing of Jane Mayer. Dark Money is next up. Read, with this book, Thomas Gordon's Journey into Madness and John Marks, The Search for the 'Manchurian Candidate'. It will then be clear. Then read Chapters 37-39 of Dick Russell, On the Trail of the JFK Assassins. I do not usually read books on politics. This book is a real eye opener. Before you vote read this book. The must-read book about law and the Bush administration. Jane Mayer\u2019s The Dark Side is an expansion of articles she had done over several years for The New Yorker on the Bush administration\u2019s post-9/11 torture regime, and it is unsettling, disturbing, painful, infuriating reading. At this point, it\u2019s hardly news that the Bush administration used abusive and illegal treatment of suspects in the war on terror, but it is nevertheless startling to look at the program in its full scale, in the full breadth of its implementation and acceptance by authoritie Jane Mayer\u2019s The Dark Side is an expansion of articles she had done over several years for The New Yorker on the Bush administration\u2019s post-9/11 torture regime, and it is unsettling, disturbing, painful, infuriating reading. At this point, it\u2019s hardly news that the Bush administration used abusive and illegal treatment of suspects in the war on terror, but it is nevertheless startling to look at the program in its full scale, in the full breadth of its implementation and acceptance by authorities across the many agencies and offices involved. Even now, more than 7 years after the book\u2019s initial publication, and with so many more revelations since, The Dark Side remains truly crucial reading for anyone willing to take an honest look at how clearly the US government departed both from its presumed ideals and from fundamental international legal protections (which it had previously upheld even in times of war), and how consciously and duplicitously a few key players at the highest levels orchestrated the entire operation. Mayer does an exceptional job providing a detailed history of how the torture regime evolved, covering the mixture of carelessness and inter-agency territoriality that led responsible authorities to disregard crucial warnings before 9/11; the reflexive definition of the US response as a \u201cwar\u201d on terror and the resort to military tribunals in the attempt to avoid standard criminal justice rules; the pernicious innovations of \u201cextraordinary rendition\u201d and black site prisons; the creation of the prison at Guantanamo; the development of pseudo-scientific rationales for abusive interrogation and the spread of the methodology from the black sites to Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib and beyond; and, through it all, the twisting of accepted domestic and international norms into disingenuous \u201clegal\u201d opinions to provide justification for all these actions and cover for the men and women who took them. Mayer also spends considerable time bringing to light the stories of some of the objectors to the \u201cnew paradigm\u201d, not just \u201clefty\u201d human rights advocates from the outside, but also people within the administration and the military. Many of these opponents were as strongly conservative as the program\u2019s contemptible ringleaders, but they were still appalled to learn of the disastrous policies and reprehensible practices the administration had embraced. It is a history as illuminating as it is enraging. As I read, the metaphor of the \u201cperfect storm\u201d repeatedly came to mind: a situation in which several serious events, each bad enough to cause some respectable damage on its own, come together all at once, with substantially more calamitous consequences. In any analysis of the Bush administration\u2019s program of detention and interrogation, Vice President Dick Cheney and his General Counsel David Addington must necessarily emerge as the sinister masterminds. Their notions about the proper role for the executive branch in government in general and about how to treat those who they considered \u201cterrorists\u201d, as well as their (pseudo-)intellectual justifications for attendant policies, were the foundation and scaffolding for the entire regime that was to emerge. But had the September 11th attacks not occurred during Cheney and Addington\u2019s tenure, it\u2019s reasonable to argue that their theories would not have gained such predominance. And had the office of the President not been occupied by a lackadaisical, even childish, dilettante, accompanied by an empty-headed sycophant as White House Counsel, it\u2019s plausible to think that Cheney and Addington and others in their circle would not have been able to push the country as far from its previous practice and principles as they ultimately did. The machinations involved in establishing the Bush torture regime, as detailed in the book, shed a revealing light on the tremendous role individual personalities can play when coupled with access to substantial power. Dick Cheney seems to have constantly lived on the edge of a siege mentality since the cold war, and the 9/11 attacks served for him, in effect, as the paranoid\u2019s confirmation that somebody was indeed out to get him. David Addington shared Cheney\u2019s conviction that the executive branch deserved a primary role in setting government policy, and believed that the US had no reason to feel bound by international laws of war in its treatment of \u201ccombatants\u201d in the war on terror. As such, Addington seems to have served as Cheney\u2019s legal mad scientist -- highly intelligent but so possessed by his worldview that he flatly refused to even consider either the legal commitments that the US was, in fact, bound to uphold, or the voluminous evidence from experienced professionals that harsh interrogation produces lousy results: dubious intelligence extracted at a dehumanizing cost. Alberto Gonzalez, who as White House Counsel outranked Addington, was completely incapable of exerting any control over him in practice, because of his own ineptitude. Time and again, in descriptions of high-level meetings over post-9/11 strategy, Mayer\u2019s book makes clear that Gonzalez was entirely out of his intellectual depth. He was also completely indebted to the President for his career, and too cowed by Addington and Cheney to risk his own standing with the President. The tenure of John Yoo, who at the time of 9/11 was second in command at the Office of Legal Counsel in the Department of Justice, provides a particularly powerful example of the outsized impact just a few individuals can have, under the right circumstances. Given their respective places in the administration hierarchy, neither Yoo or Addington should have had the degree of influence they did. However, Addington was Cheney\u2019s right hand, and together, they outmaneuvered and marginalized their opponents. Yoo\u2019s worldview meshed with that of Cheney and Addington, putting him in their inside circle, and he was more than willing to deliver pseudo-legal justifications for the illegal programs they espoused. To be clear, what John Yoo provided was the weight of his legal credentials only -- not any legitimate legal analysis . Mayer provides example after example of other administration lawyers -- all conservative Bush hires -- criticizing the reasoning of Yoo\u2019s legal memos in the most resounding terms. \u201cCatastrophically poor legal reasoning\u201d; \u201cweak, sloppy\u201d; \u201ccursory and one-sided\u201d; \u201cjust didn\u2019t address the law at all\u201d; \u201cuntenable\u201d; \u201cconfused\u201d -- these are just a few of many direct quotes from other administration sources about Yoo's legal opinions authorizing the expansive and illegal powers claimed by Cheney and Addington. But, in that administration, what mattered was not intelligence or good judgment; all that mattered was whether someone was on Cheney\u2019s side or not. Anyone who followed Cheney\u2019s lead got free rein. Consequently, John Yoo was able to do an astonishing amount of damage in the 17 months between 9/11 and his departure in May 2003. Even the dissenters within the administration could see that the administration\u2019s policies put the country in serious danger. The Bush-Cheney war on terror relied on the CIA to do two things it had zero history or expertise in doing: detention and interrogation. And when the administration did go looking for expertise, it ignored the FBI and the military, with their ample experience in both, and instead put the program into the hands of private contractors who not only had no experience, but also came up with practices that turned the established FBI and military practices on their heads. (Shockingly, Mayer reveals that at the prison at Guantanamo, interrogators even drew ideas from the television show 24 . (p. 196)) The result was an abusive program that produced no useful intelligence -- at best, interrogators learned information that only confirmed intelligence that had already been gathered through standard, legal methods. And this weak information was obtained at the cost of U.S. moral standing in the world, including among the enemies the U.S. wished to thwart. The U.S. has grown no safer as a result of its actions after 9/11 (mostly attributable to Bush, but also continued to some degree under Obama). Instead, the country has created more enemies. At the time The Dark Side was published in 2008, there was at least some hope that the exit of the Bush administration would mean that Guantanamo might finally be shut down. Two more presidential terms later -- under the Democrat who ran on a platform of \u201chope and change\u201d -- Guantanamo remains open, with little hope of closing any time in the foreseeable future. Mayer\u2019s account is careful and detailed, but it should be noted that its focus is on the development of the processes through which the administration sought to capture those responsible for 9/11, bring them to justice [ sic! ], and gain human intelligence from them to prevent further attacks. The administration\u2019s comparable overreaches in the area of surveillance and electronic intelligence collection are mentioned only in passing. There is also little to no mention of the the neoconservative movement and the number of its proponents (and of the Project for the New American Century ) that held significant positions in the Bush administration. While the influence of neoconservatism is most relevant to the buildup to the Iraq war (which Mayer treats only tangentially), the degree to which ideology of neoconservatism also contributed to the executive branch actions toward war on terror suspects should be considered. Any other complaints I have about the book are more about form than substance. One key point is that the narrative relies on unnamed sources to an uncomfortable degree. This is understandable, of course, because of the nature of the subject matter and the questions raised, implicating classified information and questions of national security, but it is still worth mentioning. It may fall to other writers in the future to provide a more comprehensive account, with more explicit sourcing. Another small, formal point: readers would greatly benefit from a reference page listing key players and their roles -- there are so many names and offices that come and go through the chapters that it is easy to lose track. (In fact, I had noticed that the next book on my to-read list, Torture Team by Phillipe Sands, does include such a list, which I frequently referred to while reading this book.) The Dark Side is a riveting and damning piece of investigative journalism, documenting what should be rightly seen as one of the nation\u2019s worst moments. The damage done to the country by the Bush administration is a self-inflicted wound that may take generations to heal, especially in light of the fact there continues to be no accountability for the illegality. Writing in 2008, Mayer notes in her conclusion: \u201cIf George Bush or Dick Cheney regretted the uncounted deaths, disappearances, and torment of prisoners in their administration\u2019s custody, or the false intelligence and contaminated prosecutions that these tactics produced, they didn\u2019t express it.\u201d (p. 334) Well, in 2014, in the wake of the release of the Senate Intelligence Committee\u2019s report on Bush-era torture , Cheney made his position clear: \u201cI\u2019d do it again in a minute.\u201d ...more \u201cWe also have to work, though, sort of the dark side, if you will. We\u2019ve got to spend time in the shadows in the intelligence world. A lot of what needs to be done here will have to be done quietly, without any discussion, using sources and methods that are available to our intelligence agencies, if we\u2019re going to be successful. That\u2019s the world these folks operate in, and so it\u2019s going to be vital for us to use any means at our disposal, basically, to achieve our objective.\u201d \u2013 then-Vice Preside \u201cWe also have to work, though, sort of the dark side, if you will. We\u2019ve got to spend time in the shadows in the intelligence world. A lot of what needs to be done here will have to be done quietly, without any discussion, using sources and methods that are available to our intelligence agencies, if we\u2019re going to be successful. That\u2019s the world these folks operate in, and so it\u2019s going to be vital for us to use any means at our disposal, basically, to achieve our objective.\u201d \u2013 then-Vice President Dick Cheney on Meet the Press, September 16, 2001 \u201cMore than 3,000 suspected terrorists have been arrested in many countries. Many others have met a different fate. Let\u2019s put it this way: They are no longer a problem to the United States and our friends and allies.\u201d \u2013 then-President George W. Bush, State of the Union Address, January 28, 2003 \u201cFear and anxiety were exploited by zealots and fools.\u201d \u2013 Philip Zelikow, Former Executive Director of the 9/11 Commission Jane Mayer covers politics for The New Yorker. If you have not read her work before, and if you have any interest in what is happening behind the scenes in U.S. politics, she is definitely worth a read. Most of her pieces appear to be available on The New Yorker website. Although The Dark Side began as a series of essays, Mayer expanded them into a book The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into A War on American Ideals. The book covers the \u201cdark side\u201d of not only the treatment of U.S. held prisoners in the \u201cWar on Terror\u201d but also the power players of the Bush Administration. Soon after September 11 Bush said \u201cEither you are with us, or you are with the terrorists.\u201d This sentiment would play out in countless ways. Anyone who challenged the Administration\u2019s views and actions was in the cross-hairs, and this book is a catalog of some of the Bush Administration\u2019s worst moments (at least the ones we know about). Although many of these stories have been reported in different places and in Mayer\u2019s The New Yorker articles, looking at them all together in book form has a cumulative effect. Also, by going back, Mayer not only puts the reportage within its historical context, but also puts the narrative in a chronological order (which is not always how we get news in \u201creal-time\u201d). Let\u2019s take a look at some quotes that stood out to me. They also give you a flavor of the book: \u201cAny fair telling of how America came to sacrifice so many cherished values in its fight against terrorism has to acknowledge that the enemy that the Bush Administration faced on September 11, and which the country faces still, is both real and terrifying . . . But this country has in the past faced other mortal enemies, equally if not more threatening, without endangering its mortal authority by resorting to state-sanctioned torture.\u201d \u2013 pg 9 \u201cImmediately after September 11, the Bush Administration rushed to the judgment that America\u2019s old approach to fighting terrorism, which treated it as a crime like any other, was inadequate for the post-9/11 world. Almost without discussion, it was agreed that a new kind of enemy required new kinds of tactics.\u201d \u2013 pg 34 \u201cThe CIA would be gaining fearsome new powers with very little debate \u2013 none of it public. The Agency was taking on new responsibilities in areas where it had no expertise, such as interrogation and detention.\u201d \u2013 pg 43 \u201cThe overarching intent of the legal strategy was to transform the fight against terrorism from a criminal justice matter to a full-fledged military war, thereby allowing the CIA and Pentagon to kill or capture and question terrorist suspects as swiftly as possible, with as much latitude as possible . . . By emphasizing interrogation over due process, the government intended to preempt future attacks before they materialized . . . Rather than seeing the American legal system as the country\u2019s greatest strength, it was instantly regarded as a burden.\u201d \u2013 pg 52 \u201cUnder this New Paradigm, the President gave terror suspects neither the rights of criminal defendants nor the rights of prisoners of war. Instead, he authorized a new, ad hoc system of detention and interrogation that operated outside any previously known coherent body of law. The administration designated terrorists as \u2018illegal enemy combatants\u2019 whose treatment would ultimately be decided by the President.\u201d \u2013 pg 52 \u201c[P]ivoting from Bush\u2019s adviser on vice presidential selection to Bush\u2019s pick as running mate, a process that Cheney\u2019s old friend Stu Spencer joked about as \u2018the most Machiavellian fucking thing I\u2019ve ever seen,\u2019 . . . set up the most powerful vice presidency in American history.\u201d \u2013 pg 62 \u201cOne of the most controversial clandestine programs run by the CIA\u2019s Counterterrorist Center[ was] known as \u2018extraordinary rendition\u2019 . . . [D]evised as a means of extraditing criminal suspects from one foreign country to another outside of the recognized legal process, it would be cited by President Bush and George Tenet as among the most valuable weapons in the war on terror.\u201d \u2013 pg 102 \u201cWhat began as a program aimed at a small, discrete set of suspects \u2013 people against whom there were outstanding foreign arrest warrants - came to include the wide and ill-defined population that the administration termed \u2018illegal enemy combatants\u2019. Many of them had never been publicly charged with any crime. Before September 11, the program was aimed at rendering criminal suspects to justice, but afterwards it was used to render suspects outside the reach of the law . . . Rendition thus became an enforcement mechanism for the Bush Administration\u2019s preemptive criminal model, disrupting and punishing suspects before they were provably guilty.\u201d \u2013 pg 108 \u201cOthers in the administration worried that the President\u2019s lawyers were shirking their obligations to uphold the laws. \u2018Lawyers have to be the voice of reason and sometimes have to put the brakes on, no matter how much the client wants to hear something else,\u2019 David Bowker, a former top State Department lawyer said. \u2018Our job is to keep the train on the tracks. It\u2019s not to tell the President, \u2018Here are the ways to avoid the law.\u2019 He went on, \u2018There is no such thing as a non-covered person under the Geneva Convention. It\u2019s nonsense. The protocols cover fighters in everything from world wars to local rebellions.\u201d \u2013 pg 123 \u201cIn the Bush Administration, loyalty is the new competence.\u201d \u2013 pg 180 This is just a taste of what you will find in The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into A War on American Ideals. Here\u2019s a bonus for any viewers of Fox\u2019s show 24: \u201cMilitary officials held a series of brainstorming meetings in Guantanamo about how to crack through the resistance of detainees such as Qahtani. One source of ideas was the popular television show 24. The fictional drama was written by a Hollywood conservative who had no military or intelligence expertise whatsoever. But on Guantanamo, as everywhere else in America, its macho hero, Jack Bauer, who tortured his enemies until they talked, was followed with admiration. On 24, torture always worked. It saved America on a weekly basis.\u201d \u2013 pg 196 \u201cAccording to one of the few U.S. officials with full access to the details, the drastic \u2018ticking time bomb\u2019 threat used to justify what many Americans would otherwise consider indefensible tactics, had never actually occurred, other than on the TV sets of those watching Fox-TV\u2019s terrorism fantasy show 24.\u201d \u2013 pg 330 ...more<---C>Jane Mayer</---C><+++>The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals</+++>", "Title": "The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals"},
