{"Comments": "<+++>Dreams of the Ringed Vale</+++>It finally came in! This is not just a book, it is an entire fantasy world. In the back there is a glossary of terms used,<---M> an appendix of the suns and moons</---M>, and an appendix of the elfin runes ... their language and markings compared to our alphabet. The world <---A>Robert Fanney</---A> has managed to create is amazing in and of itself. There are two incredible pictures of the main character <---C>Luthiel</---C>, and I didn't see 'illustrated by' anywhere, so he must have drawn them. They are seriously incredible and I fo It finally came in! This is not just a book, it is an entire fantasy world. In the back there is a glossary of terms used, an appendix of the suns and moons, and an appendix of the elfin runes ... their language and markings compared to our alphabet. The world Robert Fanney has managed to create is amazing in and of itself. There are two incredible pictures of the main character Luthiel, and I didn't see 'illustrated by' anywhere, so he must have drawn them. They are seriously incredible and I found myself staring at them. This book builds and builds and then it ends .. the main characters are about to go into battle and I am very anxious for the next book to come out. I don't want to reveal too much about the story, but Luthiel is about to turn 15 when her whole world changes. She is a very loving and self sacrificing person, and she willingly puts her life at stake to save someone she loves. Through her journey, she learns who she really is both in character and blood. On the surface this is a great fantasy story, but it is also pretty deep. This is one of my favorite parts about right and wrong ...'Intentional wrongdoing is denial of personal truth ... when you harm others you deprive the most important part of yourself .. the part of you that hungers for love and to give love. Many do not think of it as a need but it is as necessary as air and light, as essential as earth and water. It is the very design of life to support other life and to grow greater by the support of other living things...' I am recommending this book, and very much looking forward to 'The War of Mists'.<---F> Thank you Ron!! </---F>...more This delightful tale is the story of a young girl named Luthiel who is forced to go on a dangerous and frightening adventure that is sure to result in her own death. No, forced is a bad word to describe what this delightful heroine does. She goes on this treacherous adventure because it is simply what she has to do. The alternative is unacceptable to her, and as the story unfolds the stakes become even higher than she ever imagined. As other reviewers have said, Luthiel is an absolutely amazing h This delightful tale is the story of a young girl named Luthiel who is forced to go on a dangerous and frightening adventure that is sure to result in her own death. No, forced is a bad word to describe what this delightful heroine does. She goes on this treacherous adventure because it is simply what she has to do. The alternative is unacceptable to her, and as the story unfolds the stakes become even higher than she ever imagined. As other reviewers have said, Luthiel is an absolutely amazing heroine. She isn't a fearless warrior who goes on an adventure and faces death because she has something to prove or thirsts for the chance to be a hero. Luthiel is a young girl who BECOMES a hero because she's willing to sacrifice herself and face unthinkable fear and frustration to save the life of someone she loves very much. She's one of the most, perhaps even the most, honest and immediately likable female characters that I've ever read in this genre because despite all that she does and the world that she lives in she's amazingly NORMAL. I can't possibly forget to mention how amazingly well written this book is. Robert Fanney weaves this tale through a colorful, vivid, breathtaking world that will suck you in and make you wish that you could hop into the pages and become a character to help Luthiel along her way. Even if fantasy isn't your \"thing,\" I would give this book a try. It contains magic, fantastic creatures, and an imaginary world but it also contains more heart and real life magic than anything that I have read in quite a while. Unlike many books that are out there, Luthiel's Song: <+++>Dreams of the Ringed Vale</+++> makes you think. At least, it made me think. It made me think about the nature of love and sacrifice, and what I would do to save a life if given the chance. I honestly think that this book has the potential to be the first of a series that will become absolutely huge (<---B>think Harry Potter or Eragon huge</---B>) someday. Buy yourself a copy of this one so you can say that you knew about it and loved it way back when. ...more I was getting tired of reading fantasy novels with male leads and female leads that just didn't seem real to me when I happened to stumble on this book. I'm really glad I did! A debut novel by a somewhat unknown author, this book had me from page one. The characters seemed real, genuine, and completely convincing. Luthiel is a heroine with traits that exemplify female heroics -- she's not just another buxom sword wielding lady dressed out in skimpy armor. Not only was the story and main characte I was getting tired of reading fantasy novels with male leads and female leads that just didn't seem real to me when I happened to stumble on this book. I'm really glad I did! A debut novel by a somewhat unknown author, this book had me from page one. The characters seemed real, genuine, and completely convincing. Luthiel is a heroine with traits that exemplify female heroics -- she's not just another buxom sword wielding lady dressed out in skimpy armor. Not only was the story and main character fantastic, I encountered a number of things in this book that I've never run into previously in a fantasy novel. The Vyrl, for example, were a masterwork of depth and creativity. The dragon was a refreshing change of pace from the norm. And if you don't fall in love with the werewolf then there's something wrong with you. Honestly, a must read for anyone who enjoys great fantasy. ...more If you love fantasy novels, this book covers it, you will love it as I did, I really enjoyed this book. It is well written and genuine, a sense of a true heart. I highly recommend it. Dare to dream as Luthiel does. You will be glad you read this book. It is a fresh and delightful look towards allies least expected. An adventure in heroism, as a young teen elf, named Luthiel, sets out to save someone she loves. Her life as well as others lives are in the balance. This young 15 year old elf, encoun If you love fantasy novels, this book covers it, you will love it as I did, I really enjoyed this book. It is well written and genuine, a sense of a true heart. I highly recommend it. Dare to dream as Luthiel does. You will be glad you read this book. It is a fresh and delightful look towards allies least expected. An adventure in heroism, as a young teen elf, named Luthiel, sets out to save someone she loves. Her life as well as others lives are in the balance. This young 15 year old elf, encounters wizards, werewolves, a tiny dragon and others on her quest. This book is truly a must read, you will be looking for more. It is a delightful credit to Fantasy Novels. ...more The author came to my school a couple of weeks ago. I got the book and couldn't put it down. Started at about 5 PM 12 hours later I was thinking about playing hookie. This book will keep you up all night! Not too long ago, I read A Game of Thrones , an excellent fantasy novel with exceptional world building (with fantasy elements kept in moderation--just the way I like it), intrigue and suspense provided by a complex plot, and fully realized characters. That sucker grabbed me and wouldn't let go. As a fantasy, Luthiel's Song failed because it lacked all of the above. It didn't grab me. Hell, it barely groped me. It was like the awkward boy who took you to the 10th grade dance and was so set on mak Not too long ago, I read A Game of Thrones , an excellent fantasy novel with exceptional world building (with fantasy elements kept in moderation--just the way I like it), intrigue and suspense provided by a complex plot, and fully realized characters. That sucker grabbed me and wouldn't let go. As a fantasy, Luthiel's Song failed because it lacked all of the above. It didn't grab me. Hell, it barely groped me. It was like the awkward boy who took you to the 10th grade dance and was so set on making a good impression that he barely made an impression at all. By the end of the night, you would have welcomed an attempt at copping a cheap feel because it would have given you a good story the next day to tell your friends and verify that he did, in fact, know of the existence of the bases. Suffice it to say, this book did not give me a good story to tell my friends. And I began to wonder if it even knew where the bases were. In Luthiel's Song , the fantasy world was overkill and full of self-referential terms and concepts that are seldom clearly explained. Granted, that could have also been because tedium set in early on and I found myself not caring much about piecing all that mumbo-jumbo together. (Oh, and you know what really irks me? When fantasy novels have a \"helpful\" appendix in the back and half the words and terms you look up aren't listed.) We have elves, we have werewolves, we have talking animals, we have giant killer spiders, we have giants, we have dragons, we have fallen-angels-who-have-become-vampires, we have ghosts, we have wizards, we have valkyries, we have magic crystals, we have swords that are important enough to have names , we have portals between worlds. It's a bit like the author won a shopping spree at Ghouls R' Us. In other words, we have every fantasy trope and cliche under the two suns of Oesha (yup, even two suns). The problem with all of this fantasy \"clutter\" is it leads to the second problem: weak characterization. The characters never really differentiate themselves based upon personality. We never know much about Luthiel other than, as an orphan, she has always felt out of place (and, like all orphans, she will predictably turn out to be more than she seems) and she loves her sister, Leowin, so much that she's willing to offer her life in her sister's stead when Leowin is chosen as a sacrifice for the Vyrl. Cue the adventure in which Luthiel will learn about herself as she encounters mystical threats and finds unlikely allies. Yawn. Now, all of this might be a little more entertaining to someone who hasn't glutted themselves on fantasy as I have over the years. Most of this is predictable with a very \"been there, done that\" flavor. It's not necessarily that bad, but it's not necessarily that good. Instead of moving on to the next book in the series, I think it may be time to check out George R. R. Martin's A Clash of Kings . After all, those Lannisters know where the bases are. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more Unlike some, I'm a huge fan of elves and angels. This book had both in ways I hadn't yet imagined. So magical and yet at the same time somehow down to earth this book reminded me what it was like to feel wonder again while standing with feet firmly planted. This is probably my favorite book of all time. It is not just a book about elves -- though the ones depicted in this story are, in my opinion, really unique -- it is more about a magical world that takes traditional myths and paints them in a subtly new way. What made me really love this book though, were the characters. They were all so rich and colorful. They have depth, complexity, and deep reasons for being what they are. Though it is a tale about good vrs evil, it does not define good and ev This is probably my favorite book of all time. It is not just a book about elves -- though the ones depicted in this story are, in my opinion, really unique -- it is more about a magical world that takes traditional myths and paints them in a subtly new way. What made me really love this book though, were the characters. They were all so rich and colorful. They have depth, complexity, and deep reasons for being what they are. Though it is a tale about good vrs evil, it does not define good and evil in absolute terms. Aside from its rich depth the story is also just plain good fun. I recommend this book to anyone who loves a good book and to anyone who also loves a good story. ...more This book really surprised me. It started out with a traditional story line and then I found myself in an entirely different place altogether. But it wasn't jarring. I was smoothly swept away. The author's world is filled with fantasy archetypes but they all somehow seem unique and have depth. If you're looking for a story and characters that will really surprise and delight you don't pass up this book. The only shame is that a major publisher hasn't picked up on this author and put some real hea This book really surprised me. It started out with a traditional story line and then I found myself in an entirely different place altogether. But it wasn't jarring. I was smoothly swept away. The author's world is filled with fantasy archetypes but they all somehow seem unique and have depth. If you're looking for a story and characters that will really surprise and delight you don't pass up this book. The only shame is that a major publisher hasn't picked up on this author and put some real heat behind his work. But small presses have done double time in the past. I'm waiting anxiously for the second installment! ...more This book is amazing! I'm a real lover of fantasy stories. The downside to this is a number of the plot lines seem very similar to one another. Not the case with Luthiel's Song! The story kept surprising me! When you add in the fact that this is a real page-turner and you can't help but be deeply affected by some of the characters, this book is rapidly becoming my new favorite! From the first page to the final page this book was absolutely amazing. In it were many things I've never seen in a work of this kind before. The Vyrl, in my opinion, were a masterwork. A must read for fantasy lover s. I just read this a couple of days ago and man was I blown away. I feel I have in my hands a new fantasy classic. The characters and story were amazing. The story starts off with a moment of happy abandon but rapidly transitions into a fast paced adventure where Luthiel must make some hard choices if she's going to help the ones she loves. A must read for any fantasy lover ! This book was great! I don't think there was a character I didn't like and some of my favorites happened to be the minor ones. 3.5 stars. A well done, original YA fantasy epic in the tradition of Tolkien. I enjoyed it. i love this book book and i think everyone should read it.. its probably oe of the best books i've ever read Luthiel's Song is tough to match in High Fantasy. The events are extraordinary, the characters very real to me. Lovely writing that brings back a sense of a time forgotten. I stumbled upon this book entirely by accident. I was searching for blogs about elves and I read a wonderful rant by the author about people who discriminate against elves. I've met people like that and I think they're pretty silly. So I was intrigued by the writer and I ordered his book. What I discovered was something extraordinary. The world of Luthiel's Song is a beautiful as it is original. The characters and stories are very compelling to me. I say stories because, even though the main char I stumbled upon this book entirely by accident. I was searching for blogs about elves and I read a wonderful rant by the author about people who discriminate against elves. I've met people like that and I think they're pretty silly. So I was intrigued by the writer and I ordered his book. What I discovered was something extraordinary. The world of Luthiel's Song is a beautiful as it is original. The characters and stories are very compelling to me. I say stories because, even though the main character is Luthiel, each of the supporting characters has enough depth to have their own book written about them. The adventure takes you along a path that is very difficult to predict and I found myself surprised by every twist and turn in this amazing journey. One thing for readers to note -- this is the first book in the series. So it doesn't wrap up perfectly at the end. Quite the contrary, it sets the stage deliciously for the second volume in the series leaving the reader with a lot to imagine and anticipate. I admired the writer for his bravery in writing the ending in such a way. There's so much pressure these days to have everything wrap up, Disney-like, in a perfect little package. Well this story will leave you wanting and hoping for more. I am certain the final end of the Luthiel's Song series will be all the more satisfying for it! Definitely a story for those who want to enter a new world and have their imaginations stimulated. I loved Luthiel's Song so much this is now my new favorite book. Hopefully, you will share my experience! ...more Absolutely amazing! I was lucky to meet the author on a school trip. I can't wait for the next book. This is one of those books that I downloaded several years ago when I first got my Kindle, which then languished there as I persisted in just... not using it, and which I come to now with little memory of what interested me at the time. At a guess - it was free or cheap in the Fantasy Ebooks section. That's a lot of what motivated me at the time. As gambles go, this was... a decent one. The thing is that this book is fairly straightforward and predictable for most of its length, right up until the This is one of those books that I downloaded several years ago when I first got my Kindle, which then languished there as I persisted in just... not using it, and which I come to now with little memory of what interested me at the time. At a guess - it was free or cheap in the Fantasy Ebooks section. That's a lot of what motivated me at the time. As gambles go, this was... a decent one. The thing is that this book is fairly straightforward and predictable for most of its length, right up until the cut-off cliffhanger ending which is building towards a series that... may never be finished, if the lack of movement since 2009 is any indication. I'm not going to give away any spoilers, but I will say that most of the major plot twists are evident from a great distance. To Robert Fanney's credit, though, as the story hits its stride this becomes less and less of a problem. Undeniably, this book could have used more rounds of revision and polish (and maturation), but what he's attempting to do with the characters of Luthiel and the Vyrl is well-intentioned and shows great promise. I particularly liked the way Luthiel's identity and sense of self-worth was handled, as in the following: \"She has so much more to lose than I.\" \"Does she? Are you not also a part of that family? Do you love life less than her? Or is your life of less importance simply because you are an orphan?\" ... Somebody didn't want me, she thought. I was just a castaway. Essentially, her internal conflict comes from not believing that she has value, and what makes her a particularly admirable character is that she is dead-set on using whatever she has to offer to help others she cares about. While it's not always handled gracefully in writing ('show, don't tell' is a maxim I'm particularly fond of for emotional states, and which this book could use more of), it comes through strongly and makes her likeable to read about and root for. The worldbuilding is... there are seeds of interesting ideas (the mists of the Vale changing those too long exposed to them, for instance) but much of it feels derivative, close cousin to every other fantasy elf world, with all the elements that have become commonplace thanks to Tolkien imitators and D&D-style tabletop games. (forest-dwelling elves? giant spiders? isolationist wizards? werewolves, and a powerful group of enemies that could easily be Ringwraiths but that they speak? check, check, check, check, and check.) There's another step away that needs to be taken to make this setting stand out, and it's not there yet. After reaching the end of the book, I thought I might want to continue the series, but as I was unable to track down news of anything more recent than 2009, it's probably not worth the effort. I do think Fanney has the framework of ideas/execution to become a more polished writer, but that may not be where his life has taken him in the time since writing the first two books of this series. ...more I enjoyed this book immensely from the moment I picked it up. Within the first few pages, I was completely engrossed. Each character is so life-like, and Luthiel, the reluctant heroine, is dazzling. I love the imagery in this book. I could picture even the smallest details in my mind's eye with ease. The story itself flows smoothly, sweeping the reader along through both light and shadow. A wonderful read, that has left me wanting more. I cannot wait to see where Luthiel's journey takes her next I enjoyed this book immensely from the moment I picked it up. Within the first few pages, I was completely engrossed. Each character is so life-like, and Luthiel, the reluctant heroine, is dazzling. I love the imagery in this book. I could picture even the smallest details in my mind's eye with ease. The story itself flows smoothly, sweeping the reader along through both light and shadow. A wonderful read, that has left me wanting more. I cannot wait to see where Luthiel's journey takes her next. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed this book - And I am not normally a fantasy reader! The story was really good, and the character of Luthiel is absolutely loveable! Im looking forward to the next book. Im trying to get my thirteen-year-old son to read it now:) Awesome! I've a love/hate relationship with high fantasy. These authors have the opportunity to bend reality so every book has the potential to expand the imagination beyond the known horizon. Problem is years spent reading the genre makes it difficult to appreciate originality in the genre as there\u2019s little I haven\u2019t seen. Othalas\u2019 description of the Vyrl summoning \u201cfell beasts from the depths \u2013 creatures of living flame called Malcor \u2013 who burned with the fire of their bodies\u201d was eerily reminiscent of I've a love/hate relationship with high fantasy. These authors have the opportunity to bend reality so every book has the potential to expand the imagination beyond the known horizon. Problem is years spent reading the genre makes it difficult to appreciate originality in the genre as there\u2019s little I haven\u2019t seen. Othalas\u2019 description of the Vyrl summoning \u201cfell beasts from the depths \u2013 creatures of living flame called Malcor \u2013 who burned with the fire of their bodies\u201d was eerily reminiscent of Durin\u2019s Bane in the depths of Khazad-d\u00fbm. Each of the Seven is the keeper of a Wyrd Stone, which in Fanney\u2019s universe is a magical artifact that was \u201ccorrupted by black art leaving [the owner] bent \u2013 body, mind and spirit.\u201d They are essentially dead men walking, bonded to Zalos\u2019 will and if you\u2019re not yet thinking of the Nazg\u00fbl, I salute you. The shards of Aeowinar may have been crystal, but the familial connection between the original wielder and the latter parallels Narsil\u2019s journey from Elendil to Aragorn. Instances such as these naturally made it difficult to remain fully engaged in Fanney\u2019s work, but it doesn\u2019t end with Tolkien. The properties of the Wyrd Stone and the notion of a girl exorcising seven \u2018demons\u2019 also brought the Indigo Saga by Louise Cooper to my mind. As punishment for breaking an ancient law, Anghara Kaligsdaughter is charged with finding and eliminating the seven evil beings she released from the Tower of Regrets and one of the few tools at her disposal is a stone that both guides and aides her in her quest. The writing itself is less mature than I like, but I\u2019m not a young adult so I suppose I can\u2019t split too many hairs. The phrasing is awkward and repetitive in places, but I\u2019m not sure that sort of thing matters to Fanney\u2019s target audience. I did like the characters. Lutheil isn\u2019t perfect and boasts a truly unique motivation. Othalas, Vanye, and Melkion were equally atypical and I enjoyed the unusual quality their interactions brought the narrative, but that alone doesn\u2019t outweigh the things I struggled with during my reading. ...more I had high hopes for this book. But ultimately the author spent too much time world-building and not enough character-building. The characters were boring, flat, and unreal. Some of them were written to evoke sympathy, but their emptiness just made me not care. And the editing was terrible. Words misspelled all over the place, using words wrong... There were so many instances where the author chose an almost-homophone for the word that he was trying to use that I lost count. I came away with the i I had high hopes for this book. But ultimately the author spent too much time world-building and not enough character-building. The characters were boring, flat, and unreal. Some of them were written to evoke sympathy, but their emptiness just made me not care. And the editing was terrible. Words misspelled all over the place, using words wrong... There were so many instances where the author chose an almost-homophone for the word that he was trying to use that I lost count. I came away with the impression that the author was trying to imitate Tolkien. But he ended up getting wrong the same things that Tolkien did--like thin characterization--and failed to get right the things that Tolkien did, like creating characters that sometimes chose the wrong thing. And don't get me started on the internal inconsistencies. Like the Vale that inevitably warps things when they stay in it too long -- unless the person is a protagonist. ...more I'm new to goodreads and I'm pleased to see people here have discovered this amazing book. Luthiel's Song is not one of the best known fantasy stories, nor is it a mainstream book. But the quality of its story and the heart of its characters makes it so much more. I uncovered this treasure while wandering through a local library looking for something new. The librarian handed me a battered copy of what would become my new favorite fantasy. Reader beware! If you like carousing and savoring a stor I'm new to goodreads and I'm pleased to see people here have discovered this amazing book. Luthiel's Song is not one of the best known fantasy stories, nor is it a mainstream book. But the quality of its story and the heart of its characters makes it so much more. I uncovered this treasure while wandering through a local library looking for something new. The librarian handed me a battered copy of what would become my new favorite fantasy. Reader beware! If you like carousing and savoring a story, you might have a little trouble with Luthiel's Song. On my first reading it grabbed hold of me and I couldn't put it down. Some hours later I was finished! I recently checked it out again. The cover is falling off due to love and much use. I'm happy to say it is just as good the second time. ...more I was a little apprehensive at first--I don't always enjoy when there is a glossary or any type of appendix in a book. However, I've been wanting to read this one for a while--I got the Boston Public Library to purchase it. (Yay!)I started into it with high hopes and... I was on page 300-something, finished the book, and now I have to get the sequel to see what happens! The story is interesting, fast-paced, and pretty inventive. I'm not the biggest fan of epic fantasy books because of how many ma I was a little apprehensive at first--I don't always enjoy when there is a glossary or any type of appendix in a book. However, I've been wanting to read this one for a while--I got the Boston Public Library to purchase it. (Yay!)I started into it with high hopes and... I was on page 300-something, finished the book, and now I have to get the sequel to see what happens! The story is interesting, fast-paced, and pretty inventive. I'm not the biggest fan of epic fantasy books because of how many made-up words there are but it wasn't terribly hard to keep up with this one and, like I said, it was a ridiculously quick read. ...more Fanney's books are wonderfully light-hearted yet beautifully written fantasy. He creates a believable world with fully three dimensional characters and has a very easy to read style. The relationship between the sisters was thoroughly engaging and very realistic [having been a little sister myself] and the evil Vryl are the kind of villains that can make a story truly special. My only complaint was the very definite 'to be continued....' ending. Still it did make me buy the next book so maybe th Fanney's books are wonderfully light-hearted yet beautifully written fantasy. He creates a believable world with fully three dimensional characters and has a very easy to read style. The relationship between the sisters was thoroughly engaging and very realistic [having been a little sister myself] and the evil Vryl are the kind of villains that can make a story truly special. My only complaint was the very definite 'to be continued....' ending. Still it did make me buy the next book so maybe that's was Fanney was looking for. Highly recommended and very suitable for younger readers as well. ...more This was a great book. I think fans of Eragon and Sabriel will enjoy this story. It got a little thick into the moons, and history of how things happen, but it's easy enough to work past it and just enjoy the story. Not to spoil anything, but I really liked that even the most horrible monster's in Fanney's story have a depth and history that may not forgive their evils, but at least provides an understanding for them. There is supposed to be a second book coming out soon, and I will definitely be This was a great book. I think fans of Eragon and Sabriel will enjoy this story. It got a little thick into the moons, and history of how things happen, but it's easy enough to work past it and just enjoy the story. Not to spoil anything, but I really liked that even the most horrible monster's in Fanney's story have a depth and history that may not forgive their evils, but at least provides an understanding for them. There is supposed to be a second book coming out soon, and I will definitely be picking it up. ...more I can only assume that there's something wrong with me for not really liking this book--it seems just about everybody everywhere who's read it LOVED it. (It's Goodreads average rating is 4.63, which is higher than most.) I thought it was unnecessarily gruesome in parts, and the plot was not all that unusual. But the most irritating thing was that I had to look up terms and characters in the vast appendix in the back of the book every two pages or so. It took me three weeks to read, another bad s I can only assume that there's something wrong with me for not really liking this book--it seems just about everybody everywhere who's read it LOVED it. (It's Goodreads average rating is 4.63, which is higher than most.) I thought it was unnecessarily gruesome in parts, and the plot was not all that unusual. But the most irritating thing was that I had to look up terms and characters in the vast appendix in the back of the book every two pages or so. It took me three weeks to read, another bad sign. Glad I'm done with it, and I'll certainly pass on the sequel. ...more This book is a tale about a 15 year old orphen who goes on a journey to discover who she is. Though she does not realize at the beginning but she is truly an amazing and inspiring character! I was introduced to this at the bookclub at Plaza Middle School, after I read the first page I was captivated. My bookclub calls the elfin languge \"Fanney's code\". This book is the best book in the entire world!", "Title": "Dreams of the Ringed Vale"},
