{"Comments": "If I could, I'd probably rate this at 1.5 stars-- it ultimately pissed me off,<---M> and annoyed me throughout</---M>, but it was good enough to keep me reading and I suppose that should count for something. Maybe my opinion has been influenced by reading THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO immediately prior to this one. That book wasn't perfect, but it had characters you rooted for, didn't wallow too much in pop culture references, and most importantly IT SOLVED THE FRIGGING MYSTERY. Let's go through a few of th If I could, I'd probably rate this at 1.5 stars-- it ultimately pissed me off, and annoyed me throughout, but it was good enough to keep me reading and I suppose that should count for something. Maybe my opinion has been influenced by reading THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO immediately prior to this one. That book wasn't perfect, but it had characters you rooted for, didn't wallow too much in pop culture references, and most importantly IT SOLVED THE FRIGGING MYSTERY. Let's go through a few of these points. First, I don't think I've ever read a mystery novel with a less likable main character/narrator. Rob (Adam) Ryan is an asshole, plain and simple. Sure, he's been warped by his childhood and circumstances, but he does just about every annoying thing you could possibly imagine-- he constantly navel-gazes and feels self pity, he sleeps with then immediately plays the stereotypical male \"I don't want anything to do with you now\" role with his female partner (the person we were told was his best friend, and whom he would never ever sleep with), he acts like an idiot over the 17 year old villain/ temptress/ psychopath/ whatever betraying his partner, and by the end of the book he is worse off than ever. I know that lots of detectives (esp. in hard-boild stories) are unlikable, and have many personal issues, but this guy just took the cake. I wanted to take a baseball bat to his head. To make matters worse, French throws in this little gem towards the end of the novel: \"I am intensely aware, by the way, that this story does not show me in a particularly flattering light. I am aware that, within an impressively short time of meeting me, Rosalind had me coming to heel like a well-trained dog: running up and down stairs to bring her coffee, nodding along while she bitched about my partner, imagining like some starstruck teenager that she was a kindred soul. But before you decide to despise me too thoroughly, consider this: she fooled you, too. You had as good a chance as I did. I told you everything I saw, as I saw it at the time. And if that was in itself deceptive, remember, I told you that, too: I warned you, right from the beginning, that I lie.<---F>\" As if that excused anything</---F>... and NO, she didn't \"fool\" me, because YOU'RE the narrator and YOU'RE the one telling the story. This paragraph probably ticked me off more than anything else in the book. Second, the book seriously dates itself with little pop culture references... from Simpsons quotes to mentions of Ricky Martin and The Simple Life. Gah. The beginning of the book felt like a very special episode of FRIENDS where Chandler, Monica and Ross solve a mystery. I'm a pretty big pop culture type of guy, but the references dropped in this novel just annoyed me. The last part is a bit more controversial I suppose. There are two central mysteries in this book-- the first, what happened to Katy, DOES get solved in the course of the novel (the \"big break\" in the case is our hero realizing suddenly that the murder probably took place in a shed about 20 feet from where the body was found! Really?? No one bothered to think of that for a month?), but the deeper mystery about what happened to Rob/Adam and his friends is never resolved. Your mileage may vary about how annoying that is. Truth be told, it didn't annoy me as much as the fact that the true \"villain\" of the modern mystery walks without being punished in any way. How incredibly unsatisfying. I know this was a first novel, so hopefully things will improve for her second book. I know, also, that this book won a major award and that lots of people seem to love it to death, so maybe I don't know what I'm talking about. ---- Since this review seems to be read by quite a few people, I thought I'd include in the review a bit of further rumination that I had in the comments section below. ---- In a bit of serendipity, I just finished reading Graham Moore's THE SHERLOCKIAN this past weekend. In the book, there's a quote from the narrator (supposedly based on some thoughts from Arthur Conan Doyle) talking about how a mystery must have a conclusion lest the audience be left unhappy and upset: \"Can you write a mystery story that ends with uncertainty? Where you never know who really did it? You can, but it\u2019s unsatisfying. It\u2019s unpleasant for the reader . There needs to be something at the end, some sort of resolution. It\u2019s not that the killer even needs to be caught or locked up. It\u2019s that the reader needs to know. Not knowing is the worst outcome for any mystery story, because we need to believe that everything in the world is knowable. Justice is optional, but answers, at least, are mandatory. And that\u2019s what I love about Holmes. That the answers are so elegant and the world he lives in so ordered and rational. It\u2019s beautiful.\u201d I'll take Holmes over Ryan any day of the week. ...more Some wounds will never heal, and there will forever be a Rob Ryan-shaped scar in my heart. Some books are written deliberately to provoke sadness. It's fucking easy to induce someone to tears when the book is about a dying cancer patient with a labrador retriever whose leg has been amputated, with one ear missing. The most effectively emotional books are the ones where you least expect it. The ones that sneak up on you. There are differing degrees of sadness, the type that makes one curl into a ba Some wounds will never heal, and there will forever be a Rob Ryan-shaped scar in my heart. Some books are written deliberately to provoke sadness. It's fucking easy to induce someone to tears when the book is about a dying cancer patient with a labrador retriever whose leg has been amputated, with one ear missing. The most effectively emotional books are the ones where you least expect it. The ones that sneak up on you. There are differing degrees of sadness, the type that makes one curl into a ball, sobbing in the wee hours of the morning. I still can't pass by a bookshelf containing the book Forbidden without recalling that memory. Then there are books such as these. It doesn't make a person shudder in pain as much as it leaves one with an overwhelming sense of sadness and a feeling of unfulfillment. Of loss. When I picked up this book, so many years ago, I never knew I was setting myself up for heartbreak. Ask anyone who's read this book. Their reply will range anywhere from MY FEELS to WHY DOES TANA FRENCH DO THIS TO US?! The damnedest thing is, this book wasn't even MEANT to be sad. It just sneaks up on you. It makes you fall in love with the main character. It makes you sympathize with him. Rob Ryan is not a bad boy. He's a lost one. He is the kind that brings out what little remnants of maternal feelings there exists inside me. He is wounded, without being a new adult asshole. Don't get me wrong, he is sometimes an asshole...while not intending to be. He is a little boy, who behaves carelessly without intent to harm. He is imperfect, he runs the other way when the going gets tough. He is scared to face the past, he can't think about the future. All he can do is live in the present, wholly devoting himself to his work because it's the only way he can avoid his shadows. He would make a terrible husband. He would make a horrendous boyfriend. He will break your heart, and I don't even care. I just want to love him. I just want to take care of him. I want to erase his hurt. I want to obliterate his pain. Rarely has there been a character who has broken my heart so badly. This is a detective novel, but it's not really. Don't get me wrong, there is an ample amount of investigation in the book. It can hold it's own against any fucking detective novel out there. It just doesn't feel that way because to me, this book is more poetry. I have rarely encountered better writing. I have scarcely encountered more evocative passages. The other books in this series does a better job of investigation, but I don't care. As far as I'm concerned, the series begins, and ends---the universe revolves around this book. Do yourself a favor. Lose yourself... ...in the woods. ...more \" What I am telling you, before you begin my story, is this - two things: I crave truth. And I lie. \" This book is brilliantly cruel - a story of deep and painfully real psychological f*ckery masquerading as a murder mystery. There's nothing \"feel good\" about it. If you like a book to leave you feeling warm and fuzzy at the end, it's not for you. If you like neat resolutions - it's not for you (and if you already read this book, you know exactly what I'm talking about). If you hate being left with \" What I am telling you, before you begin my story, is this - two things: I crave truth. And I lie. \" This book is brilliantly cruel - a story of deep and painfully real psychological f*ckery masquerading as a murder mystery. There's nothing \"feel good\" about it. If you like a book to leave you feeling warm and fuzzy at the end, it's not for you. If you like neat resolutions - it's not for you (and if you already read this book, you know exactly what I'm talking about). If you hate being left with a new question for each question that this story answered - well, yet again, it's not a book for you. But I loved it. I loved every page of it, every wordy paragraph, every depressing turn of the story, every soul-shattering instance, every painfully real mistake of the protagonist. I chose reading this book over sleep - a decision I almost came to regret later, having to work a 14-hour day on 3 hours of sleep ( \"Hi, it's Dr. (yawn) Nataliya returning a (yawn) page (yawn)... Scalpel (yawn) please! )- but hey, we all make decisions we wish we could take back (hey, just like Rob Ryan in this book!). And it ultimately was fully worth it. \" I suppose you can say my real weakness is a kind of long-sightedness: usually it is only at a distance, and much too late, that I can see the pattern. \" Rob Ryan is a detective in the (imaginary) Dublin Murder Squad, assigned to investigate a senseless murder case of a 12-year-old ballet dancer Katy in a little town of Knocknaree. What his supervisors don't know is that 20 years ago he was among the three children who went to play in the woods near Knocknaree, and was the only one to come back under unbelievably strange circumstances, wearing shoes full of blood, and with no memory of what happened to his best friends who forever disappeared in the woods. The investigation forces Rob to revisit the place that has such painful associations for him, and slowly, day by day, rips his heart to shreds and destroys him a little bit at a time. And it's not the murder story (stories?) but Rob's despair, mistakes, pain, and downward spiral and self-destruction that makes this book so painfully real and fascinating to read. It is a reminder that our worst monsters ultimately do live within ourselves, and that we are our own worst enemies even without ever meaning to be. \" And then, too, I had learned early to assume something dark and lethal hidden at the heart of anything I loved. When I couldn't find it, I responded, bewildered and wary, in the only way I knew how: by planting it there myself. \" The heart of this book is the story of a friendship between Rob and his partner Cassie Maddox (view spoiler) [and the ultimate destruction of it that Rob's downward spiral eventually brings (hide spoiler) ] . Rob and Cassie start off enjoying that incredible, intense and yet easy, all-forgiving and natural closeness of a friendship I think every person in the world (non-sociopathic, to be exact) longs for. It's a friendship too beautiful to not be doomed. It is a friendship that many people do not have a privilege to enjoy after they have grown out of their childhood. It's a friendship that brings nostalgic longing from the very first pages on which it is described. And it is, without a doubt, my favorite part of this book. \" But a girl who goes into battle beside you and keeps your back is a different thing, a thing to make you shiver. Think of the first time you slept with someone, or the first time you fell in love: that blinding explosion that left you crackling to the fingertips with electricity, initiated and transformed. I tell you that was nothing, nothing at all, beside the power of putting your lives, simply and daily, into each other's hands. \" This book takes us onto a journey to the sadness and bleakness and hopelessness. The mystery of what happened twenty years ago to Rob, the psychological fallout he still suffers from decades later, the senselessness of the new murder, (view spoiler) [the lack of justice as we would have loved to see it done (hide spoiler) ] , the burden of crushing loneliness, the habitual cruelty of the world, the casual mentions of the depressing parts of the society like the persistent corruption. None of this is a feel-good reading. None of this has a resolution that the readers hope for (or any resolution at all for some of the above!). It is painful and yet touching and beautiful, and so unbelievably close to perfect - at least it was for me. \" For a moment, I felt as if the universe had turned upside down and we were falling softly into an enormous black bowl of stars, and I knew, beyond any doubt, that everything was going to be alright. \" I loved this book to pieces, even though I could not shake off the overwhelming feeling of sadness and hollowness after finishing it. I loved it despite (or maybe because?) of the frustrating incompleteness of some plot lines, the frequent lack of resolution, and the unfulfillment of my wishes for the characters and events. I know I will read it again in the future, curious to know how my reading experience will be changed once I know what's coming. In the meantime, I highly recommend it. 5 stars with no hesitation. \" There was a time when I believed I was the redeemed one, the boy borne safely home on the ebb of whatever freak tide carried Peter and Jamie away. Not any more. In ways too dark and crucial to be called metaphorical, I never left that wood. \" ------------- Catie's wonderful review that made me pick up this book is here . My review of the sequel, The Likeness , is here . The third book in the series, Faithful Place , is reviewed here . The fourth book in the series, Broken Harbour , is here . My review of the fifth book, The Secret Place , is here .[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Though the isbn is the same as the one pictured, my edition of this book has a much creepier cover and tagline: Needless to say, I was completely expecting something a bit dark and twisted, a creepy psychological murder mystery with an outcome I never would have seen coming. And I got that. But I never expected this book to leave me feeling so... sad. And you know why? Because I cared. Ms French carefully builds up a complex personality for each of her characters, complete with a past, a sense of Though the isbn is the same as the one pictured, my edition of this book has a much creepier cover and tagline: Needless to say, I was completely expecting something a bit dark and twisted, a creepy psychological murder mystery with an outcome I never would have seen coming. And I got that. But I never expected this book to leave me feeling so... sad. And you know why? Because I cared. Ms French carefully builds up a complex personality for each of her characters, complete with a past, a sense of humour and some serious issues to go with it all, and you can't help but care what happens to the detectives even more than you care what happens with the case. Having now read all her other works, I can confirm she isn't just a one trick pony. I also feel more forgiving of this book's ending, which I know bothered many other readers. In hindsight, frustrating as it is, I find it oddly perfect. In The Woods is a deeply psychological read that explores the nature of psychopaths and memory - or lack of. The story is narrated by Rob Ryan, a detective on the Dublin murder squad, who is sent back to his home town in hopes of unravelling the case of a local child murder. A young girl found dead in the very same woods in which <---C>Detective</---C> Ryan played as a child. But Rob Ryan has a secret. Years ago two of his friends disappeared whilst playing in those woods and whilst he was with them and a witness to whatever happened, he retains no memory of the events. His friends were never found. The question is: will this new case bring back old memories? Is there some piece of evidence that's waited twenty years to be found in those woods? A case like the one Rob and his partner - Cassie - face would leave a very personal mark on anybody, you cannot investigate the murder and sexual assault of a child and keep it just business as usual. As the investigation progresses and leads the pair in a number of directions only to meet with dead end after dead end, it begins to take its toll on the two detectives, they come out of it very different people from those we knew at the beginning. It seemed a very realistic and rather sad progression. I'm not saying that every wordy paragraph in this beautifully-written novel was needed, but I personally didn't want them to be taken out. I think the main reason I enjoyed this novel so much was because it is about far more than a murder mystery; it's about all the people involved and how they are affected. And I was honestly on the verge of tears after reading the ending and then reading friends' reviews of the second book in this series and discovering that we never get to hear more from Rob. There's a touch of love in this book, just a touch, not enough to be called romance. No descriptive sex. No sweet-nothings. Nothing like that. And yet, it still fucking broke my heart. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr ...more I was disappointed in this novel, which seemed so promising at the beginning. The central mystery not only remains unsolved, but a disproportionate amount of the plot is spent on what seems, in the end, a total red herring. The narrator appears at the beginning to be a sympathetic, introspective figure, but by the end of the novel he's revealed himself to be whiny, a lousy and disloyal friend, and an inept detective. I found nothing redeeming or engaging about him, and the fact that his negative I was disappointed in this novel, which seemed so promising at the beginning. The central mystery not only remains unsolved, but a disproportionate amount of the plot is spent on what seems, in the end, a total red herring. The narrator appears at the beginning to be a sympathetic, introspective figure, but by the end of the novel he's revealed himself to be whiny, a lousy and disloyal friend, and an inept detective. I found nothing redeeming or engaging about him, and the fact that his negative character traits were gradually revealed rather than laid out at the beginning made them even less palatable. My main problem with this novel, however, was that I just couldn't suspend my disbelief enough to buy major elements of the plot. These cops are, frankly, idiots who overlook obvious clues and leads. The psychopath is too contrived to be believable, and her motive for murder too facile to work well as fiction. (I have yet to read an interview with a real-life psycho/killer who's this glib and silly.) The female detective's ability to spot a psychopath from a mile away rings a bit false, and the heavy-handed foreshadowing leaves readers waiting for major revelations that never really materialize. ...more This book is amazing... really excellent. I took a risk at the UTEP library just picking this out at random... & what serendipity it was! This particular week was rife with parties & late nights (daytime reserved for sleep) and all throughout \"<+++>In the Woods</+++>\" was a faithful companion... it was a pleasure to get back into it, for it's a dense and meticulous, brilliant piece of literature. It kicks \"Girl with the Dragon Tattoo\"'s ass... people, read this instead!! You feel so much for the tri This book is amazing... really excellent. I took a risk at the UTEP library just picking this out at random... & what serendipity it was! This particular week was rife with parties & late nights (daytime reserved for sleep) and all throughout \"<+++>In the Woods</+++>\" was a faithful companion... it was a pleasure to get back into it, for it's a dense and meticulous, brilliant piece of literature. It kicks \"Girl with the Dragon Tattoo\"'s ass... people, read this instead!! You feel so much for the trio of detectives trying to uncover the murder of a teenage girl atop a medieval altar in the woods. The backdrop is Ireland of modern day, & not since 2003's \"Veronica Guerin\" or more recently the romantic comedy \"Leap Year\" have I wanted to visit the Emerald Isle so much. <---A>Tana French</---A> establishes the whodunnit with elegant prose not fit for a bestseller (it is written more a-la Haute Literature than Global Bestseller a-la-mediocre) and the twists & turns are calibrated to hit the protagonist's psyche in clear-cut precision: he too was a victim in the same woods years earlier. Alcoholism and despair follow our lad about, and although it spreads itself way too much in the end, it is the best psychological thriller, I believe, since Robert Harris' \"The Silence of the Lambs.\" ...more it must be really hard to write convincing mystery novels. you can't have your killer be too obvious or no one will bother reading past the third chapter. but you can't have them be too unexpected, without textual support, or you will be accused of cheating. the super-saturation of police procedurals in all their manifestations: literary and film and teevee, sets the genre up for failure - it just adds up to a steaming bowl of repetition and a dessicated medium. there are about five ways a murde it must be really hard to write convincing mystery novels. you can't have your killer be too obvious or no one will bother reading past the third chapter. but you can't have them be too unexpected, without textual support, or you will be accused of cheating. the super-saturation of police procedurals in all their manifestations: literary and film and teevee, sets the genre up for failure - it just adds up to a steaming bowl of repetition and a dessicated medium. there are about five ways a murder plot can resolve itself, and the rest is wallpaper and window dressing. and then there is this. and for the most part, it falls into the same traps - the main-plot resolution is facile and a little yawn-y, but tana french has massive balls for her treatment of the subplot. she evidently does not care about infuriating her readers. i am reading the second novel now, just out of anger - technically it is for class, but it's above and beyond the demands of the syllabus. i have never read a book out of rage at the author before. can i get a plaque?? and i refuse to say why and how and when this book began to push my wrath-buttons, but push them it did, and those of you who have read this will understand me when i howl, (and maybe one of you can tell me why i am still watching lost when it started failing me like three seasons ago - but this is the diseased impulse we are working with here - i will see this second tana french book through, even though it is not doing for me what i had hoped the first one would do for me. is this coded enough?? good.) i asked the near-mythical tom fuller about his take on this book, and he said \"i liked it until i didn't\". which sounds forrest gumpy, but is spot-on the way i felt about it. it has its good points: the irish setting is well-rendered, there are some great descriptions of people, places, and things, the two detectives have a wonderful rapport... until they don't . (see how flexible that kind of assessment is??) it's not all \"wee bairns\" and Lebor Gab\u00e1la \u00c9renn, but syntactically it is delightfully irish, and that part of it is a pleasure to read. dunno - this isn't the worst, i just figured that genre fiction had to play by certain rules in order to be invited into the clubhouse. tana french is a subversive lass, aye, to be sure. go ahead, read it, and come howl with me. ...more This was an Edgar Award finalist, and that means a mystery, right? Well, we get a tease at the beginning--little boy survives some sort of mysterious mischief in the local woods, the two friends with him are never seen again, and when he's found his shoes are filled with blood and he's unable to speak or recall anything. Cool, huh? I would go along for a ride that works out that story (how'd the blood get IN his shoes, not just on them, etc.), even if I have to sit through another peripheral mur This was an Edgar Award finalist, and that means a mystery, right? Well, we get a tease at the beginning--little boy survives some sort of mysterious mischief in the local woods, the two friends with him are never seen again, and when he's found his shoes are filled with blood and he's unable to speak or recall anything. Cool, huh? I would go along for a ride that works out that story (how'd the blood get IN his shoes, not just on them, etc.), even if I have to sit through another peripheral murder that takes place in the same location many years later, when said boy has become a--wait for it--police detective. Well, I got all involved in the story, even looked forward to finishing it by reading straight into the wee hours one night, and I could not believe the ending: we never find out what happened in the woods all those years ago, and we couldn't care less about the new murder that Bloody Shoes has solved now that he's all grown up. I call that a cheap trick, and I'm not even going to pick up French's second book with this character (if she writes one) to find out if she's beginning a series and wants to stretch out the story--I felt cheated, and I'm done. (Although if there is a second book, and any of you read it, you could maybe let me know what's up. . .) ...more I will agree that this book is gorgeously written, and the characters are well crafted and sympathetic. That's what kept me reading through the various absurd plot points. An example: the narrator, as a child, is found in the woods, his shoes full of blood, with his two best friends mysteriously missing. He comes back years later as a detective to investigate another murder in the same small estate, and no one recognizes him including the mother of one of those best friends. Oh, PLEASE. And then I will agree that this book is gorgeously written, and the characters are well crafted and sympathetic. That's what kept me reading through the various absurd plot points. An example: the narrator, as a child, is found in the woods, his shoes full of blood, with his two best friends mysteriously missing. He comes back years later as a detective to investigate another murder in the same small estate, and no one recognizes him including the mother of one of those best friends. Oh, PLEASE. And then, after all that, while you do find out who committed the recent murder, the question of what happened to the protagonist and his friends years ago is never resolved. I mean, WTF? the murder of Katy Devlin is a McGuffin--a plot device that motivates the characters or advances the story, but the details of which are of little or no importance otherwise. The real mystery is left hanging in the air. I put the book down at the end and said out loud, \"are you [bad word:] KIDDING ME?\" So, the kindest thing I can say about this book is \"enjoy the journey, but realize you're going to roll your eyes in disbelief a lot on the way, and then you're not going to end up anywhere.\" ...more \"Not any more. In ways too dark and crucial to be called metaphorical, I never left that wood.\" I know that I ought to gather my thoughts to organize them or whatever I usually do before writing a review, especially when the last page let me shell-shocked as In the Woods did . But I can't. I'm leaving tomorrow and I'm not one for writing reviews weeks after having read the damn book. I'm actually in awe of people who manage to do just that. I think that it says something about me : in the end, \"Not any more. In ways too dark and crucial to be called metaphorical, I never left that wood.\" I know that I ought to gather my thoughts to organize them or whatever I usually do before writing a review, especially when the last page let me shell-shocked as In the Woods did . But I can't. I'm leaving tomorrow and I'm not one for writing reviews weeks after having read the damn book. I'm actually in awe of people who manage to do just that. I think that it says something about me : in the end, I'm an emotional reader, and I'll always hold to the bewilderment and wonder I feel when fictional stories get to me in such a strong level . And I just began too many sentences with I . Ugh. Bear with me, would you? In the Woods affected me in a way that I didn't expect, slowly enveloping me in its sickeningly sweet lure. Little by little, I've been rocked by a false sense of safety, by the discreet and uncertain laughs, proofs of Rob and Cassie's complicity. Of course I saw the warnings, the insights, yet I chose to ignore the bad taste in my mouth, the inexorable growth of my doubts and then the pang of betrayal and sadness. God, this book let me so fucking sad . Hollowed. There's nothing, really, that I could say to convince you to give it a chance, and many reviewers did it before me and with much more eloquence. So I'll only say this : rarely did I feel that the character's personality - whether they're likeable or not - was so besides the point as when reading this book. Is Rob a jerk? Maybe, but I don't care , he's real, all of them are real to me. I care so much, og my god, do I care for him still. Did I guess some clues before he did? Yes, actually, I did, but again, it changes nothing to the way I feel right now, to the sheer awe still palpable in me when I'm writing these (clumsy) words. (view spoiler) [Do I feel some kind of bond with him, because in my early 20s I've come across a girl (a woman, really) who acted the same way as Rosalyn and that I fell for it? Yes, definitely. (hide spoiler) ] I am frustrated, does that show? I'm just so sick of writing that, it's not perfect but - god, I'm so fed up with that sentence and I write it way too often. Nothing's perfect. Life is far from perfect (or everybody would look at populists and say, What The Hell, do I look like an idiot to you?!). Tana French pictures the unfairness and imperfection of it all perfectly . It's enough for me. Of course it's enough. PS. One day later and I'm still dazzled and yeah, so very much sad. It will linger, I just know it. For more of my reviews, please visit: [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more *4.5/5* This took me ages to read, but I loved it! There was one small plot point that annoyed me a bit, but other than that it was perfect. I barely ever read murder mysteries, but after this I definitely want to read more! This book is tricksy. Rob Ryan is a veteran homicide detective with the Dublin police along with his best friend and partner, Cassie Maddox, and the two start working a case involving a young girl found murdered at the site of an archaeological dig. Sounds like it could be the cold open of an episode of CSI: Ireland , right? Ah, but that\u2019s only part of the story. Rob is actually from the area where the girl is found, and 22 years before he and two friends went to play in the nearby woods and somet This book is tricksy. Rob Ryan is a veteran homicide detective with the Dublin police along with his best friend and partner, Cassie Maddox, and the two start working a case involving a young girl found murdered at the site of an archaeological dig. Sounds like it could be the cold open of an episode of CSI: Ireland , right? Ah, but that\u2019s only part of the story. Rob is actually from the area where the girl is found, and 22 years before he and two friends went to play in the nearby woods and something very bad happened. Rob was found with blood covered shoes and no memory of what happened to the other kids. They were never found, and Rob has done his best to disassociate himself from the event. When they find a piece of evidence that seems like it could link their fresh murder to the disappearance of his friends, Rob and Cassie decide to keep this under wraps so that they can investigate without potentially dragging up Rob\u2019s history while they determine if the two crimes are related. But that\u2019s only part of it. As the case progresses it sprawls to also involve a hot button issue of a new motorway being built through the archaeological site, potential political corruption and indications of child abuse while Rob and Cassie find themselves under extreme pressure to solve the crime. The added burden of Rob\u2019s secret takes an increasing toll on them as they have to find ways to include his knowledge without admitting how they got it. I told you it was tricksy\u2026 This is a really nice piece of work and a solid debut novel from Tana French that starts off like a crime thriller with the twist of Rob\u2019s history, but there\u2019s more going on here than that. I particularly liked the way she portrays Rob and Cassie\u2019s close relationship in the early stages of the investigation, and then how it the plot tests it. French also has a nice way of leading a reader down a path that seems somewhat familiar to any fan of crime fiction, but then zigs and zags into different directions. It was a particularly nice touch that with his first person narration that Rob would typically be the most sympathetic character, but French doesn\u2019t hesitate to have him do things that make him downright unlikeable at times. I had three or four occasions where I was seriously hoping that someone would punch him in the balls. However, there are some pacing problems where things seem a bit repetitive and slow that probably could have been hurried along a bit. I\u2019ve also seen a fair amount of complaining about the ending, but I actually loved it. (view spoiler) [French pulls off a nice two-fer here. First, decoying us into thinking that Cassie and Rob got their killer only to pull the rug out from under them, and it\u2019s even worse that she gets away with it because it was one of Rob\u2019s numerous fuck-ups that really enabled it. As for not knowing what happened to Rob\u2019s friends, I\u2019m OK with that. The story wasn\u2019t so much about what happened to them as it how effected Rob, and how his failure to ever really face and deal with what happened leads him to disaster here. I also give French credit for not giving into a temptation that a lot of writers would have and having Cassie forgive Rob. He was pretty much a bastard, and her dumping of him as a friend, partner and lover then moving on without him was a powerful statement about how badly he managed to botch his life, not just the case. (hide spoiler) ] I was leaning towards 3 stars when it seemed that things slowed down in the middle, but some of the clever twists and turns at the end got it back to 4 for me. ...more It's been a while since I have read a book that has left me so utterly devastated, a book entailing such a profound emotional investment that having finished it I feel a gaping emptiness within, a sense of loss. It feels like my heart has been simultaneously crushed into pulp under the weight of the tragedies that descend on the lives of a handful of characters and blown to smithereens. And I would never be able to pick up the pieces and glue them back together into a throbbing whole again. I rea It's been a while since I have read a book that has left me so utterly devastated, a book entailing such a profound emotional investment that having finished it I feel a gaping emptiness within, a sense of loss. It feels like my heart has been simultaneously crushed into pulp under the weight of the tragedies that descend on the lives of a handful of characters and blown to smithereens. And I would never be able to pick up the pieces and glue them back together into a throbbing whole again. I read In the Woods while on vacation, whenever I took breaks from watching wave after wave crash on to the shore with the familiar rip-roaring intensity of the sea. I read this even when I was too tired to stay up till late, lying on an unfamiliar bed with a sheet of dubious hygiene standards. I read this during prolonged car rides. And every time I had to tear my eyes away from its pages, I felt a pang of irritation. As I made my way toward the bone-chilling climax of this narrative, awake at an unholy hour, I distinctly remember breaking out in a sweat on a cool December night to boot. Sleep became an alien entity and, come hell or high water, I knew I would not wrench myself away from this fantastic make-believe world of a small town and the sinister occurrences that tied the lives of its residents in the most twisted way possible. I longed to stay trapped in the eerie magic spell cast by the woods, under the ominous shadows of leafy canopies of pine and beech, caught up in a hazy daydream playing hide and seek with Peter, Jamie and Adam. My heart ached for the two children who never returned home from their beloved woods, who were never found again and the way the tragedy of their mystifying disappearance dealt a crushing blow to the life of their traumatized playmate who returned unharmed. It wept for Rob and Cassie and their missed chances. This book isn't about crime and punishment, it isn't about the science of deduction or smooth-talking, fedora-sporting detectives smartly arriving at inference after inference and nabbing the culprit in style. I almost crave for the standardized simplicity of regular crime thrillers at this moment, the stories which conveniently compartmentalize the crime and the police procedure, the good guys and the bad guys. At least a book like that would not have left me feeling so desolate and bereft of any happy feeling. But this book took my breath away with its ability to instill so much life in each one of its characters that their distress became my own, with its ornate but never ostentatious prose and the way it deftly narrated a story infused with the dull shades of a sadness so affecting. Tana French foregoes all the spick and span categorizations here, thumbs her nose at the usual pigeon-holing. Instead with consummate skill, she outlines the faint traces of humanity in the most brutal impulses, acknowledges the messed up ways in which this bizarre drama of life plays out and how a neat tying up of all loose ends seldom happens in reality. Sometimes, life is that merciless and cold. This book is about the labyrinthine pathways of our mind which treacherously conceal our most terrifying memories and how our subconscious prods us to replace the unpleasant truths with self-justifying falsities and even establishes our faith in them. It is about the seemingly innocuous, small cruelties of mundane everyday life that are capable of triggering much bigger disasters that destroy the lives of children and the unforgivable cruelties oblivious, ignorant children are themselves capable of. I refuse to label this electrifying debut novel mere crime fiction because, in all earnestness, it is not. Rather, it is literature which delves deep into the causality of crime and meticulously brings out the humanity of all the people involved, literature capable of wringing out empathy from even the least sensitive reader. And it is an exploration of the convoluted workings of the human mind, of evil and barbaric urges lurking somewhere in its darkest nooks and crevices. It is a cerebral suspense thriller and, without a doubt, one of the best I have ever read. But it is also a beautiful, bittersweet story about people who carry on with their broken lives shouldering the unbearable burden of past trauma, an unforgettable human drama which left me emotionally drained, agitated to the extreme and yet gasping for more. ...more A very well-constructed and impressive debut novel. I had a bittersweet moment near the end when I realized that my theory from near the start of the book was correct; happy to be right, but also a bit bummed that I had figured it out. It wasn't much of a twist for me, but I honestly don't know how I solved it so early on. Don't let that keep you from reading this book. There were still quite a few surprising moments that didn't deal directly with the mystery, and those were incredibly satisfyin A very well-constructed and impressive debut novel. I had a bittersweet moment near the end when I realized that my theory from near the start of the book was correct; happy to be right, but also a bit bummed that I had figured it out. It wasn't much of a twist for me, but I honestly don't know how I solved it so early on. Don't let that keep you from reading this book. There were still quite a few surprising moments that didn't deal directly with the mystery, and those were incredibly satisfying. It really is a great novel\u2014a mystery with many layers, characters with depth, and beautiful writing. 4.5 stars ...more When a twelve year old girl is found murdered at an archaeological dig, Detective Ryan and Maddox are on the case. But what does this case have to do with a similar case twenty years earlier, a case that saw an adolescent Ryan as the only survivor? As a veteran of detective fiction, riddles, and brain teasers, I'm a big fan of mysteries that keep me guessing. In the Woods was one of those sorts of mysteries. In the Woods is the story of two detectives looking for answers, both on the case they're When a twelve year old girl is found murdered at an archaeological dig, Detective Ryan and Maddox are on the case. But what does this case have to do with a similar case twenty years earlier, a case that saw an adolescent Ryan as the only survivor? As a veteran of detective fiction, riddles, and brain teasers, I'm a big fan of mysteries that keep me guessing. In the Woods was one of those sorts of mysteries. In the Woods is the story of two detectives looking for answers, both on the case they're working and inside themselves. Rob Ryan and Cassie Maddox are partners and best friends on the Dublin Murder Squad, detectives who catch all the murders that come down the pipe. When Katy Devlin is found murdered and sexually assaulted, they find themselves in the soup pretty quickly. Complicating things is the fact that Rob Ryan used to be Adam Ryan, a lad whose friends disappeared one afternoon, their bodies never found. In the Woods is very well written and it could be read as simply a police procedural, and it would have been a very good one. The thing that sets it apart from most run of the mill books of this type are the main characters. Rob and Cassie are very well written, real to the point that I wanted to shout at them a few times. Even though it took place in Dublin, it kind of reminded me of The Wire in that there was no happily ever after ending and no action. It was all gritty police work and even grittier interpersonal stuff. The mystery itself was solveable. Hell, the clues were even pointed out but I was too busy getting misdirected by French's skills. When the truth behind Katy's death was revealed, it was even more chilling than I'd imagined. (view spoiler) [French really saw me coming when the Ryan-Maddox relationship took a turn. I wanted them to get together and have detective babies, not have their world come crashing down! Why do you have to be so mean, French? Why? (hide spoiler) ] Great, great book. I wouldn't say it was the best book I read in 2014 but it's definitely in the top ten. Tana French can lead me In The Woods any day. 4.5 out of 5. ...more As seen on The Readventurer In the Woods reminded me a lot of Gillian Flynn 's novels ( Sharp Objects and Dark Places ). All these books are very dark mysteries/psychological thrillers and they all are as much about particular crimes the narrators investigate as they are about the narrators themselves, a disturbed bunch. Rob Ryan, a detective on the Dublin Murder squad, and his partner Cassie Maddox are assigned to investigate a murder of a pre-teen girl. The thing is, the girl's body is found in the As seen on The Readventurer In the Woods reminded me a lot of Gillian Flynn 's novels ( Sharp Objects and Dark Places ). All these books are very dark mysteries/psychological thrillers and they all are as much about particular crimes the narrators investigate as they are about the narrators themselves, a disturbed bunch. Rob Ryan, a detective on the Dublin Murder squad, and his partner Cassie Maddox are assigned to investigate a murder of a pre-teen girl. The thing is, the girl's body is found in the same woods where 20 years prior Rob's two best childhood friends disappeared. Rob undoubtedly witnessed their disappearance but has absolutely no recollection of what actually happened. Are these two crimes connected? Will investigating this new crime stir Rob's repressed memories? Is it a good idea at all for Rob to be involved in this case? In the Woods is a very strong debut novel. Although a little too wordy in places, it is still a beautifully written, skillfully constructed mystery, with a multitude of red herrings. But my favorite part of this book was witnessing the effect of the investigation on the detectives working on it. It almost destroys all people involved. And our narrator, Rob, is a very special head case. His transformation is particularly striking. I found the entire story very satisfying in terms of crime-solving. I was pleasantly surprised by how neatly French wrapped things up. Well, except that one huge piece of the puzzle that apparently infuriated a bunch of readers (not me though). That bit of unfinished business will have me coming back for more Tana French 's novels. ...more Brilliant. Tana French\u2019s 2007 introduction to her Dublin Murder Squad series eschews \u201cnormal\u201d detective prose for a more literary and artistic approach. Hers is not the terse and journalistic objectivism of hard-boiled literature, nor the overly technical and post-modernistic dialect of more recent crime writing. French\u2019s language is rich and erudite, blending the best of many genre\u2019s into a style that is fresh, unique and intoxicating. Told from a first person perspective of Dublin homicide detec Brilliant. Tana French\u2019s 2007 introduction to her Dublin Murder Squad series eschews \u201cnormal\u201d detective prose for a more literary and artistic approach. Hers is not the terse and journalistic objectivism of hard-boiled literature, nor the overly technical and post-modernistic dialect of more recent crime writing. French\u2019s language is rich and erudite, blending the best of many genre\u2019s into a style that is fresh, unique and intoxicating. Told from a first person perspective of Dublin homicide detective Rob Ryan, French has crafted a multi-layered psychological thriller that is more than simply an investigation into the murder of a 12-year-old girl living in the rural, suburban estate of Knocknaree. Ryan, something of an unrealistic narrator, has deeply buried and scarring issues of his own as he was the lone survivor of an unsolved disappearance involving himself as a young boy and two of his childhood friends in Knocknaree in the mid-eighties. The facts of this cold case are intertwined and lurk tauntingly at the edges of the present inquiry. French also mixes in several sub-plots into her narrative that combine to produce an atmosphere of tension and heightening disquietude, plunging resolutely towards the end. The culmination of the many loose ends is tied together in French\u2019s talented and sophisticated work. It is this group dynamic, the interactions between Ryan and his partner Cassie Maddox and the other members of the squad, as well as the collection of witnesses, that elevates this to a more mature and satisfying novel. The little girl is found on an archeological site, being quickly mined and researched because of an interstate going in, and this sub-plot allows French to explore Irish culture, both present and ancient. Irish history and pre-history, the archeological dig and multiple Celtic references all combine to evoke a sense of paranormal enigma to this already highly entertaining story. A very, very good book, I\u2019ll return to visit Ms. French\u2019s writing again. ...more After much waiting and some significant 'biblio' peer pressure, I have finally decided to take the plunge into the world of Tana French and the Dublin Murder Squad. In the summer of 1984, three children went missing in the woods on the outskirts of Dublin. When authorities arrived, they found one boy, Adam 'Rob' Ryan, delirious and unsure what had happened to him. The other two were presumed dead, their bodies never found. Flashing forward two decades, Ryan has recreated himself, using his middl After much waiting and some significant 'biblio' peer pressure, I have finally decided to take the plunge into the world of Tana French and the Dublin Murder Squad. In the summer of 1984, three children went missing in the woods on the outskirts of Dublin. When authorities arrived, they found one boy, Adam 'Rob' Ryan, delirious and unsure what had happened to him. The other two were presumed dead, their bodies never found. Flashing forward two decades, Ryan has recreated himself, using his middle name, and finds himself working as a Homicide detective in Dublin. Partnered with his best friend, Cassie Maddox, they are used to the most gruesome of scenes. When Ryan and Maddox are called to an archeological dig site, they discover the body of twelve year-old Katy Devlin, buried under a ceremonial headstone. This sparks many disturbing memories for Ryan, as it is the exact location of his childhood trauma. While beginning to amass clues in the Devilin murder, Ryan is forced to revisit his past, told in a number of developing flashbacks. He tries to make sense what happened to his two best friends as he remembers the news they shared leading up to that summer afternoon. The deeper Ryan and Maddox dig into the possible motives for the crime, the more suspects they unearth who might harbour the necessary grudge to kill young Katy. Could the murder investigation hold the key to solving the crime from that long ago summer night? Ryan struggles to come to terms with this while also balancing the burden of having no means of helping the two people he loved the most. Simultaneously, his personal interactions with Maddox open paths of confusion and animosity that may be irreparable. French makes her debut in stunning fashion, sure to impress all those who enjoy a police procedural of the highest order. While I have heard much of Tana French in the last few months, I had been inundated with new series in my 2016 reading journey that I was not sure I ought to add another collection to my list. However, the series held a few unique aspects, one of which was its setting in Ireland, a place I hold close to my heart. After allowing myself to try at least one novel, I discovered that French tells a story that proves as gripping as some of the great European series I have discovered in the past couple of years. The Rob Ryan character is both gripping and baffling, which caught my attention from the start. His work on the Homicide Squad and the struggles tied to his youth proved to be a thread throughout the story and remained relevant until the final pages. While French takes her time in the story's progression, the drawn out development is done in such an effective way that the reader forgets the pace at which the story matures. The plot is both straightforward and convoluted, as the reader encounters twists and dead ends as they relate to motives for the crime. Strains between the characters help bridge portions of the investigation narrative, but might surge into being central plot lines for subsequent novels. French takes on a great deal in her debut piece but comes out of the experience firmly rooting herself in the genre by providing a unique flavour. I am eager to lose myself in her subsequent novels, which I hope are just as riveting. Kudos, Madam French for blowing my mind and creating an instant fan out of me. I cannot wait to rush into the second novel, hoping that Ryan and the rest of the gang prove equally as compelling. Like/hate the review? An ever-growing collection of others appears at: http://pecheyponderings.wordpress.com/ ...more I've heard about readers who become so absorbed in a good book that they stay up late to finish them, or talk to the characters, or turn the pages hoping that something bad doesn't happen to them. I rarely if ever have reading experiences that primal; I'm usually analyzing the character development, narrative, even the margins and the design of the book, all from a safe remove, sort of like a naturalist perched in a camouflaged blind, studying. In the Woods , Tana French's debut novel which launch I've heard about readers who become so absorbed in a good book that they stay up late to finish them, or talk to the characters, or turn the pages hoping that something bad doesn't happen to them. I rarely if ever have reading experiences that primal; I'm usually analyzing the character development, narrative, even the margins and the design of the book, all from a safe remove, sort of like a naturalist perched in a camouflaged blind, studying. In the Woods , Tana French's debut novel which launched her \"Dublin Murder Squad\" series in 2007, knocked me out of my observation post with the locomotive power and cunning of a rhinoceros, or maybe a wild boar. French had me scrambling around the canopy and for 429 pages, never let up. The relentlessness of her novel is not due to cop thriller cliffhangers but the relationship she crafts between her two detectives, as well as their environment. Chapter 1 begins with a perfect sentence: What I warn you to remember is that I am a detective. The narrator is Robert Ryan, a competent if aloof young detective with the \"Murder Squad.\" He has a secret only five others know: Rob was born Adam Ryan and on August 14, 1984, while playing in the woods of Knocknaree in County Dublin, disappeared with his friends Peter Savage and Germaine \"Jamie\" Rowan. Adam was found that night clutching a tree, slashes on the back of his shirt and someone's blood pooled in his shoes. Neither Peter or Jamie were ever seen again. Adam, who was soon sent to boarding school in London and started going by his middle name \"Rob,\" has been unable to recall what happened that day. Rob joined the police to become a Murder detective and as a rookie, is briefly partnered with \"this cretin called Quigley, who sounded like Daffy Duck with a Donegal accent.\" This changes with the arrival of Cassie Maddox, the only woman on the squad and the fifth in its history. Rob rescues her from the rain and a malfunctioning Vespa one evening and the two become inseparable. Having fueled intense speculation among the men, Cassie confides to Rob that her rapid promotion was the result of being stabbed working in the UCD, not because she blew her cover, but because the campus drug dealer whose trust she gained became paranoid she was trying to take over his business. Despite token resistance by their superintendent O'Kelly against pairing up two rookies, Maddox & Ryan become partners and for the next couple of years, the partnership is bliss. Contrary to appearances, Cassie is not a particularly social person, any more than I am: she is vivacious and quick with banter and can talk to anyone, but given the choice, she preferred my company to that of a big group. I slept on her sofa a lot. Our solve rate was good and rising: O'Kelly stopped threatening to split us up every time we were late turning in paperwork. Sam O'Neill drew a deft little caricature of the two of us as Mulder and Scully (I still have it, somewhere) and Cassie stuck it to the side of her computer, next to a bumper sticker that said BAD COP! NO DOUGHNUT! Cassie & Rob are goofing off at work playing Worms on her office computer when O'Kelly enters the squad room. Archaeologists at a dig in the country where a new motorway is scheduled to be constructed have found the body of a young female. Cassie volunteers to take the case before O'Kelly adds that it's in Knocknaree. Cassie is the only cop who knows about Rob's past, but he assures his partner that he's all right, even though he hasn't returned to the woods of his childhood trauma since the summer of '84. The area around Knocknaree has been inhabited more or less since the Stone Age, with a Neolithic settlement and a Bronze Age ceremonial stone among the historical sites which will soon be rendered to history by the motorway. The victim was found on the ceremonial stone, her skull caved in and ligature marks on her neck. Fully dressed, she appears to have been raped. Maddox & Ryan interview the site director, Dr. Hunt, his research assistant Mark and a few of the student volunteers, including Damien, the badly shaken boy who discovered the body. One of the students identifies the victim: Katharine Devlin, aged 12, missing from the estates near the dig. Maddox & Ryan notify her family and Rob notices several things that bother him: Jonathan and Margaret Devlin don't touch throughout the interview. No neighbors stop by to console them. The surviving daughters, Rosalind (18) and Jessica (12) act much older or much younger than their respective ages. Katy was a local star, a dancer headed to the Royal Ballet School. Her father has launched a community drive seeking to redirect the motorway around the historical sites and has received threatening phone calls. With the possibility that someone who has a financial stake in the motorway killed Katy, Maddox & Ryan are given a partner, Sam O'Neill, a straight-shooter whose uncle is a mid-level minister and has contacts in the shady world of Irish county councils. Once Cassie determines that their killer had to be local, the pair also have to consider their case is related to the 1984 disappearances which Rob has redacted from his memory. He considers revealing his identity to O'Kelly and taking himself off the case, but feels driven to solve Katy's murder, whether or not he's ever able to journey back into the events of his youth and find answers. If In the Woods had been subtitled \"New York Murder Squad\" or \"San Francisco Murder Squad,\" it's doubtful I'd have picked the book up, but Tana French, an American who's resided in Dublin since 1990, tests a theory of mine: even the most strip mined sub-genre can have life breathed into it by relocating the story to a different country or era. A mob story set in New Jersey does not interest me. I've seen it. A mob story set in South Africa has my attention, as does a mob story set in 1880s New Jersey. Anyone who's always wanted to travel to Dublin can do no worse than this novel in terms of atmosphere. We work on the grounds of Dublin Castle, and it spite of all the colonial connotations this is one of my favorite perks of the job. Inside, the rooms have been lovingly refurbished to be exactly like every corporate office in the country--cubicles, fluorescent lighting, staticky carpet and institution-colored walls--but the outsides of the buildings are protected and still intact: old, ornate red brick and marble, with battlements and turrets and worn carvings of saints in unexpected places. In winter, on foggy evenings, crossing the cobblestones is like walking through Dickens--hazy gold streetlamps, throwing odd-angled shadows, bells pealing in the cathedral nearby, every footstep ricocheting into darkness; Cassie says you can pretend you're Inspector Abberline working on the Ripper murders. French's prose sings with brevity and detail, wit and mystique. She's not above dropping the occasional pop culture reference, whether to Stephen King or Law & Order , which dates her clearly as someone from my generation, the TV Generation, which I appreciated. French's observations and asides on the suspects Maddox & Ryan interview cut glass, and frequently turned my cheeks into a grin. For a novel set in Dublin, though, she almost completely does away with the regional patois that makes an author like Roddy Doyle something of a linguistics project for an American. After presenting an abundance of suspects and motives -- Cassie even considers, privately, that our unreliable narrator Detective Ryan could be responsible -- I was sufficiently caught off guard and completely enamored by the reveal of the killer. I don't read enough mysteries to make a sport out of Guessed It/ Didn't Guess It and can't say the reveal will surprise everyone who picks up this book, but I was practically doing cartwheels over the way French spins the climax, which I found to be more exciting than The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo , for example. In the Woods is one of the best novels I've read so far. My ardor has little to do with killers or murder weapons or plot diagrams; it's the way French builds the relationship between Cassie Maddox and Rob Ryan. She echoes something I've read Lorne Michaels state on the nature of friendships: when we meet someone, we get a finite amount of time with them, which we can use up in a short period, or spend over a lifetime. I've had intense friendships that burned up and it was with melancholy and heartbreaking realization that I saw Cassie & Rob headed in that direction. (view spoiler) [ If the only problem had been the fact that we couldn't bear to be in the same room, she would have found a new partner and dug in her heels, shown up for work a little thinner and more defiant every day, until we came up with a new way to be around each other or until I put in for a transfer. She was always the stubborn one, of us two. I think she transferred because she had lied to O'Kelly and she had lied to Rosalind Devlin, and both of them had believed her; and because, when she told me the truth, I had called her a liar. (hide spoiler) ] Damn you, Tana French! I don't even have a box of tissue paper and if there's one thing worse than getting emotional over a novel, it's getting emotional with toilet paper to dry your eyes with. Dublin Murder Squad has currently spawned four sequels, beginning with The Likeness . On the basis of French's debut, I can't see getting around to Hemingway or Fitzgerald until I read everything she's written. ...more This is going to sound silly (this book did win the Edgar Award after all), but don\u2019t read this for the mystery. Although suitably disturbing, the murderer is fairly obvious. And, I won\u2019t lie to you \u2013 the phrase \u201cMunchausen by proxy\u201d is thrown around a few times. Also, there\u2019s the fact that the alternate title for this book could be: Complete and Utter Lack of Closure In The Woods. Don\u2019t read this if you need everything explained. Read this if you like to be consumed by a character \u2013 so consumed This is going to sound silly (this book did win the Edgar Award after all), but don\u2019t read this for the mystery. Although suitably disturbing, the murderer is fairly obvious. And, I won\u2019t lie to you \u2013 the phrase \u201cMunchausen by proxy\u201d is thrown around a few times. Also, there\u2019s the fact that the alternate title for this book could be: Complete and Utter Lack of Closure In The Woods. Don\u2019t read this if you need everything explained. Read this if you like to be consumed by a character \u2013 so consumed that you fall completely into his point of view. You\u2019ll be charmed initially by his witty humor and unfailing loyalty to his partner, Cassie. Eventually you may start to notice small lapses in his tale. You may notice that his word can\u2019t always be trusted. But by that point, it will already be too late. You\u2019ll already have fallen for him. Which is why you can really only experience this book once. This is my second time, and it\u2019s amazing just how differently everything appeared from my more elevated point of view. I knew the lay of the land and I knew what was coming (although that didn\u2019t stop me from hoping that everything would end differently this time around). I also knew just how wonderfully, compellingly limited this narrator really is and it was fascinating to see him with that in mind. It almost felt like being betrayed over and over again by someone I trusted. Even the mystery looked different this time around. After all, what\u2019s more creepy really \u2013 catching the killer and tying everything up in a neat little package, or knowing that even your own memories are suspect? Knowing that the murderers are still out there and may never be found or convicted? Knowing that you really don\u2019t know anything at all? That's why the woods themselves are so terrifying aren't they? Not because of what we know for sure goes on inside, but because of every horrible, monstrous thing that we we imagine goes on. The shapeless, nameless monsters that live inside our own imaginations will always be more terrifying than the real, definable ones. They have no limits. Don\u2019t read the sequel to this book for its mystery either \u2013 again, you\u2019ll be disappointed. Read it to find out how deluded the narrator of this book really was, and how much he lied to you. Read it to fall head over ankles into another utterly absorbing point of view. ...more I started this series out of chronological order, which only increased my appreciation for French. By some odd chance, I happened upon a new copy of her second book, The Likeness , in the library just waiting to be checked out, while In the Woods had a wait list of at least 100 people. I followed with Faithful Place , immersed myself in Ireland of forty years ago and promptly forgot to get on the waiting list for Woods. Nataliya's lovely review reminded me what I was missing (here: http://www.good I started this series out of chronological order, which only increased my appreciation for French. By some odd chance, I happened upon a new copy of her second book, The Likeness , in the library just waiting to be checked out, while In the Woods had a wait list of at least 100 people. I followed with Faithful Place , immersed myself in Ireland of forty years ago and promptly forgot to get on the waiting list for Woods. Nataliya's lovely review reminded me what I was missing (here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ) For a first book, Woods is impressive, not only because French takes risks with her narrative. It's a psychological mystery, an exploration of friendship and a slow disintegration of personality. I loved it, even as I dreaded the direction of the story. In brief, Rob Ryan is a detective on Dublin's Murder Squad. One day, the squad gets its first woman detective, Cassie Maddox. The two have an instant attraction and immediately begin a deep friendship. They happen to catch a case in which a 12 year-old girl is found murdered at an archeological dig, right where a highway exchange is supposed to be built (shades of Arthur Dent that I half-heartedly tried to ignore). Perhaps completely coincidentally, it is in the same small suburb that Ryan's two childhood friends disappeared when they were twelve. Ryan himself has no memory of the incident, and very few memories of the times after, but the case brings bits flashing back. What a challenge! Ryan tells us from the start: \"What I am telling you, before you begin my story, is this--two things: I crave truth. And I lie.\" Is our narrator unreliable? Or not? The outright acknowledgement that he might not be kept me guessing. At first, I loved his narrative voice. Descriptions of himself and his two twelve-year-old friends, 'Jamie,' and Peter, reminded me indelibly of Bradbury's Something Wicked This Way Comes and the gold-edged memories of summer days and best friends. Ryan captures some of that lost intimacy with Cassie, and it seems almost the first time since then that he has re-connected with another person. His voice had me chuckling with humor and sighing at his cynicism (see my numerous updates while I was getting my car's oil changed). Then oh-so-slowly the voice changed, subtly, distractedly. I won't say too much more except that it was extremely well done (view spoiler) [ and the character I loved at the beginning, I almost hated by the end. Not that he would have cared; he hated himself too. (hide spoiler) ] I love French's writing; the vivid descriptions, the integration of memories into narrative and her character development of her primary characters. Perhaps it fell apart a little at the end, and the red herrings weren't developed enough to be seriously considered. It felt a little more hurried after the slow pace of the beginning, but these are minor quibbles. The finish was stunning, if by 'stunning,' you mean a slap to the face right after someone answers your questions. Although I never deliberately avoid spoilers, for some reason I had not read any reviews before starting Woods that discussed various issues with the ending. Somewhat discombobulated, I went looking around for insight into French's process, and why she choose to do what she did. Interesting interview: http://www.dreamindemon.com/2009/01/0... Yep, definitely kept me thinking after I closed the pages. But also while I read them. Highly recommended. Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2012/1... ...more What I am telling you, before you begin my story, is this - two things: I crave truth. And I lie. 4.5 stars If I ever hear anyone say that murder mysteries are never well-written or literary I will shove this book in their face. I devoured this rather large gem within a couple days and found myself thinking about it long after I had finished. I can see how this book will only be enjoyed by a certain type of reader. If you\u2019re annoyed by metaphors, similes and other literary devices or don\u2019t like w What I am telling you, before you begin my story, is this - two things: I crave truth. And I lie. 4.5 stars If I ever hear anyone say that murder mysteries are never well-written or literary I will shove this book in their face. I devoured this rather large gem within a couple days and found myself thinking about it long after I had finished. I can see how this book will only be enjoyed by a certain type of reader. If you\u2019re annoyed by metaphors, similes and other literary devices or don\u2019t like wordy books, this one isn\u2019t for you. If you\u2019re a reader who needs everything resolved and explained in the end, this one isn\u2019t for you either. But if you enjoy psychological thrillers with messed up characters, absolutely pick this up. The story follows Rob Ryan, a detective in the Dublin Murder Squad. He is assigned to solve the murder case of a 12-year-old ballet dancer together with his partner and friend, Cassie Maddox. What his supervisors don\u2019t know however, is that the case hits a bit too close to home for Rob: twenty years earlier two kids disappeared in those same woods where the young girl was murdered, two kids who coincidentally happened to be Rob\u2019s best childhood friends. We watch as the cases (both the old and the new) unfold before us, dragging up unwanted memories and causing the detectives to slowly deteriorate and become increasingly on edge as one dead end after another presents itself. In the Woods is not simply a murder mystery. It is a study of characters, a deeply insightful story about people and their reasons for acting the way they do, a look at love, loss, friendship, memory and so much more. The characters were so wonderfully palpable and authentic that I felt like they were in the room with me, like they were real people going about their daily lives. Tana French draws detailed and nuanced portraits of her characters that you cannot help but feel empathy for. This is also what makes this book so painful to read at times. I both loved and hated Rob Ryan. Loved because at heart he is a good person who doesn\u2019t do things out of spite, but simply because he is lost and doesn\u2019t know any better. Hated because he is so flawed and does so many things wrong that I just wanted to slap him most of the time. Ultimately though, I came to care for him a great deal and didn\u2019t want anything bad to happen to him, I just wished him happiness. I am not good at noticing when I'm happy, except in retrospect. Cassie on the other hand, I just loved. I found her to be such an empowering female character: dynamic and full of life, witty and intelligent, kind yet not na\u00efve. For me the best thing about this book (and I would argue for most readers) is the friendship between Rob and Cassie. It\u2019s so freaking wonderful. The kind of friendship everyone dreams of but most will never find. A way of understanding the other person without words, to know what they need when they need it, to want to sacrifice your own happiness for the other. It filled me with a sense of nostalgia, of longing, and made this book so touching without even trying. If she had hurt me, I could have forgiven her without even having to think about it; but I couldn't forgive her for being hurt. And then there is the writing. That gorgeous mix of stunning prose and hilarious wit that made the book not only an entertaining read but a deep one as well. The novel was filled with little philosophically and psychologically stimulating snippets and I loved that aspect of the book so much. How Tana French managed to interweave her wordier writing style with a fast-paced mystery is truly masterful and I immediately felt in good hands once I had started the book. The mystery itself was engaging and perfectly paced. I loved how Tana French planted so many red herrings and introduced different characters to constantly keep the reader on his toes. However, I did guess who the person behind the murder was relatively quickly and this is also the reason I\u2019m not giving this book five stars. Additionally, some of the explanations were a bit convenient . Having said that though, it really didn\u2019t majorly impact my reading experience since this book is more about the characters than just the plot. The ending frustrated many people and I can definitely see why, but I really liked it. There are couple of things you could have issues with: (view spoiler) [what happened between Cassie and Rob left me heartbroken but was also strangely fitting, the fact that the mystery of the disappearance of Rob\u2019s childhood friends wasn\u2019t solved (which was fine with me) and the frustration that Rosalind wasn\u2019t punished (infuriating but realistic). (hide spoiler) ] Overall, I loved this book and highly recommend it. It left me with a hollow feeling after finishing it and I cannot wait to read the second instalment (which I\u2019ve already bought). If you\u2019re in the mood for a good mystery/thriller, definitely give this a try. ...more I swear I don't know where to start with this book. Do I talk about how beautifully it's written? Should I wow you with its compelling story? Do I mention the novel's insights into human nature? Or maybe I should warn that you won't know who to trust? Of course, I probably don't need to tell you anything. I am years behind in reading Tana French's acclaimed series of the Dublin Murder Squad, so you likely already know that this book draws you in, coiling around your mind until you are thinking of I swear I don't know where to start with this book. Do I talk about how beautifully it's written? Should I wow you with its compelling story? Do I mention the novel's insights into human nature? Or maybe I should warn that you won't know who to trust? Of course, I probably don't need to tell you anything. I am years behind in reading Tana French's acclaimed series of the Dublin Murder Squad, so you likely already know that this book draws you in, coiling around your mind until you are thinking of it throughout the day, trying to puzzle out its mysteries. You may even dream about this book, as I did. Lets's go back to the beginning. Detective Adam Robert Ryan has a secret: When he was a boy back in 1984, his two best friends, Peter and Jamie, disappeared in the woods. Ryan had been there, but he doesn't remember what happened or how he survived. Now he has to investigate the case of a dead girl found in those same woods. Only his partner, Cassie, knows his connection to the area, and Ryan wonders if his past and the current murder are linked. This book is so rich in stories and characters! I loved Cassie, Ryan's best friend and partner, and was upset when he didn't treat her well. I loved that this was a literary mystery, with thoughtful details and lovely prose. I even liked that I wasn't sure who did it, and the ending caught me by surprise. Oh, the ending. Should I warn that this book may make you angry? But wait, you already knew that. Highly recommended, despite my frustration with its tricky finale. I plan to read the rest of French's series. Favorite Quotes \"There was a time when I believed, with the police and the media and my stunned parents, that I was the redeemed one, the boy borne safely home on the ebb of whatever freak tide carried Peter and Jamie away. Not any more. In ways too dark and crucial to be called metaphorical, I never left that wood.\" \"We think about mortality so little, these days, except to flail hysterically at it with trendy forms of exercise and high-fiber cereals and nicotine patches. I thought of the stern Victorian determination to keep death in mind, the uncompromising tombstones: Remember, pilgrim, as you pass by, As you are now so once was I; As I am now so you will be... Now death is uncool, old-fashioned.\" \"I am not good at noticing when I'm happy, except in retrospect. My gift, or fatal flaw, is for nostalgia. I have sometimes been accused of demanding perfection, of rejecting heart's desires as soon as I get close enough that the mysterious impressionistic gloss disperses into plain solid dots, but the truth is less simplistic than that. I know very well that perfection is made up of frayed, off-struck mundanities. I suppose you could say my real weakness is a kind of long-sightedness: usually it is only at a distance, and much too late, that I can see the pattern.\" \"The girls I dream of are the gentle ones, wistful by high windows or singing sweet old songs at a piano, long hair drifting, tender as apple blossom. But a girl who goes into battle beside you and keeps your back is a different thing, a thing to make you shiver. Think of the first time you slept with someone, or the first time you fell in love: that blinding explosion that left you crackling to the fingertips with electricity, initiated and transformed. I tell you that was nothing, nothing at all, beside the power of putting your lives, simply and daily, into each other's hands.\" \"I had come to think of my memories as solid, shining little things, to be hunted out and treasured, and it was deeply unsettling to think that they might be fool's gold, tricky and fog-shaped and not at all what they seemed.\" \"Like every detective, I had taken it for granted that I was the hunter. It had never once occurred to me that I might have been the hunted, all along.\" \"Sometimes I think of the ancient gods who demanded that their sacrifices be fearless and without blemish, and I wonder whether, whoever or whatever took Peter and Jamie away, it decided I wasn't good enough.\" \"A case breaking is like a dam breaking. Everything around you gathers itself up and moves effortlessly, unstoppably into top gear; every drop of energy you've poured into the investigation comes back to you, unleashed and gaining momentum by the second, subsuming you in its building roar.\" ...more From ISawLightningFall.blogspot.com Three-and-a-half stars Years ago, one of my father\u2019s clients -- a man from the Emerald Isle named Cosgrove -- dropped by our place and, during the evening, got an insatiable hankering for the hard stuff. So my mother (who was essentially a teetotaler) found a bottle of small-batch scotch someone had given her as a gift and poured him four fingers\u2019 worth. My father began to rib him about his prodigious thirst, but Cosgrove looked at him over his highball with dea From ISawLightningFall.blogspot.com Three-and-a-half stars Years ago, one of my father\u2019s clients -- a man from the Emerald Isle named Cosgrove -- dropped by our place and, during the evening, got an insatiable hankering for the hard stuff. So my mother (who was essentially a teetotaler) found a bottle of small-batch scotch someone had given her as a gift and poured him four fingers\u2019 worth. My father began to rib him about his prodigious thirst, but Cosgrove looked at him over his highball with deadly seriousness and said, \u201cLee, if you were Irish, you\u2019d drink too.\u201d Detective Robert Ryan, the protagonist of Tana French\u2019s In the Woods , has a few reasons to drink in addition to sharing Cosgrove\u2019s nationality. He\u2019s on the Irish police force\u2019s murder squad, which means he\u2019s hip-deep in grisly murders most of the time. A stabbed convenience store clerk. A homeless man beaten to a pulp. And now a pubescent girl named Katy Devlin found near the Knocknaree woods with her skull caved in. But not only is Ryan an investigator of crimes, he\u2019s a victim of one. Twenty years ago, he and two friends disappeared into the very same forest. Only he came out, dazed and amnesiac, his shoes filled with blood. Has he found a key to his past, or will he crumble beneath the weight of hidden memories? In the Woods is a first novel, and as such suffers from some flaws. French has a tendency to embed sentences within sentences, piling on em dashes and parentheses, colons and semicolons, until your head's spinning. But after you get a grip on the overgrown style, you have to deal with the genre, which wavers between literary and mystery, only firmly clicking into procedural mode in the book\u2019s second half. And then there\u2019s the problem of Ryan himself, who is more than a little unlikable. He falls into a myopic funk seemingly at every other thought of Knocknaree, ignores crucial clues, bullies witnesses, betrays his partner\u2019s trust, downs stultifying amounts of grog and generally makes a mess of the case. \u201cI am intensely aware, by the way,\u201d he narrates in the closing pages, \u201cthat this story does not show me in a particularly flattering light.\u201d For all these niggles, though, French succeeds where more-experienced authors fail. Why? She keeps you reading. Indeed, she destroyed my sleep schedule for a week and had me pacing the hallway one Sunday afternoon, book in hand, until my wife began to fear for my mental wellbeing. In the Woods\u2019 action is as tense as a tightrope, and for her skill in keeping me moving to the next chapter, I\u2019ll buy French a pint if she ever shows up in my neck of the woods. Heck, let\u2019s make it two. ...more Despite not finishing this book, I could not reconcile what I had read with the blurbs on the back cover. It was almost as though the review authors and I were reading entirely different books. True, the author is prosaic, but that does not automatically translate into \"beautiful and brilliantly evocative prose\". I found her prose to be long-winded, and used exclusively for atmospheric descriptions, rather than to further the plot. Secondly, the blurbs mentioned vivid characters. Indeed, the autho Despite not finishing this book, I could not reconcile what I had read with the blurbs on the back cover. It was almost as though the review authors and I were reading entirely different books. True, the author is prosaic, but that does not automatically translate into \"beautiful and brilliantly evocative prose\". I found her prose to be long-winded, and used exclusively for atmospheric descriptions, rather than to further the plot. Secondly, the blurbs mentioned vivid characters. Indeed, the author does spend a great deal of time on the characters (I would even go so far as to say characterization is the A plot and the murder mystery is the B plot). Yet, this is done almost exclusively in a \"tell\" instead of a \"show\" by having the narrator constantly reflect on events in his past. Finally, all reviews mentioned tight pacing. If a book is prosaic and spends most of its time on lengthy atmospheric descriptions or detailed past stories of the narrator's life, how can it be tightly paced? There's no time to move the plot along with so many detours! If you want to read about characters, and explore them for their own sake, then this a good book for that. It is not a good book if you want a thrilling, tightly paced mystery. ...more Well, at the beginning I thought this book would be five stars. An intriguing premise: a great opening: beautiful evocative language that you usually don't see in a mystery. The story also had great characterisation and moved at just the right pace. Then, about 80% into the story at the time of the great revelation, everything went phut! for me. Adam \"Rob\" Ryan is part of the Dublin Murder Squad. He is partnered with Cassie Maddox, a resourceful female detective. Rob Ryan harbours a secret: he is Well, at the beginning I thought this book would be five stars. An intriguing premise: a great opening: beautiful evocative language that you usually don't see in a mystery. The story also had great characterisation and moved at just the right pace. Then, about 80% into the story at the time of the great revelation, everything went phut! for me. Adam \"Rob\" Ryan is part of the Dublin Murder Squad. He is partnered with Cassie Maddox, a resourceful female detective. Rob Ryan harbours a secret: he is Adam Ryan, one of the three children who disappeared into the woods at Knockaree twenty years ago - the only one who returned. When he came back, little Adam had no memory of the incident, and his shoes are filled with somebody else's blood. When young Katy Devlin is found murdered at the same site, the old ghosts come back to haunt Rob. He is sure that the murder is connected with his childhood trauma in some way - and the investigation becomes a journey into his past too. Don't get me wrong. This is a good mystery, with a plausible story-line and no plot holes to speak of (except one - how did Rob manage to hide his past from his department?) in addition to all the plus points I mentioned in the first paragraph. But three huge defects (IMO) pulled it down to three stars for me. One: (view spoiler) [The author cheats with the intro: while making us believe that this story is somehow connected integrally with Adam Ryan's past, we realise at the end that this was nothing but a McGuffin to end all McGuffins! The old mystery is never explained, even though tantalising snippets are provided throughout the narrative that would have us believe that the explanation is just around the corner. While this kind of open ending is admissible in a literary novel, it is totally unacceptable in a mystery. (hide spoiler) ] Two: The protagonist is totally unlikeable. Yeah, I know that he had a screwed up childhood, but going through such long story with only his dark thoughts for company was not an enjoyable experience to say the least. Three: I saw through the mystery - at least part of it - and I think any perceptive reader will. (view spoiler) [Rosalind's manipulative tactics were so evident that I wanted to punch Ryan in the mouth for being taken in by her wiles. Call himself a detective? (hide spoiler) ] However, I still think this is an enjoyable mystery worth a read. ...more Seriously, man, I wanted to rate this book higher than two stars. I almost went with three, but I just can't do it. This book felt like it ran this long, exhausting marathon only to collapse into a heap, huffing and puffing just before it crossed the three-star line. Right now it's laying there lifelessly. It might get up slowly and crawl across that line later, but I doubt it. The protagonist of this book really, really annoyed me. It felt like a parody of one of those old black-and-white movies Seriously, man, I wanted to rate this book higher than two stars. I almost went with three, but I just can't do it. This book felt like it ran this long, exhausting marathon only to collapse into a heap, huffing and puffing just before it crossed the three-star line. Right now it's laying there lifelessly. It might get up slowly and crawl across that line later, but I doubt it. The protagonist of this book really, really annoyed me. It felt like a parody of one of those old black-and-white movies where the picture freezes and the guy steps out toward the camera, lights a cigarette, pulls his hat down, and goes into this long monologue about life or women or his past or whatever. The action would pick up or a new lead would be uncovered, and here comes Rob rambling on for pages and pages.... and pages. Example: Cassie: Oh wow! This thing we just found could connect this murder to events from your past! WHOA! Rob: That is amazing! Great job, Cass! ::Rob steps toward the camera:: Rob: Yeah, Cassie was like that. She was always finding connections to things and blah blah blah. She made a great partner because hey remember that time 20 years ago when my friends and I in the woods and blah blah blah I want to tell you about all the people I work with and give you a brief description of each on them and also explain in detail how my boss is and blah blah blah. My mind is trying to remember what happened 20 years ago and you know Cassie and I are great partners and we're best friends and people think we're dating but blah blah blah. Hey, time flies, man. Did I tell you what happened to me as a child? Did I remind you about Katy? Also, her family sure is weird. The people at the dig site are weird. Everyone is a suspect blah blah blah. Let me pause here to tell you how I deal with my roommate and also O'Kelly and my childhood and my current job and Katy and her weird family and interrogation and coffee and vodka and this dream I had and looking for clues and in the woods and we keep hitting dead ends and and and and and blahhhhhhhhhhhh. Cassie: Hey, Rob. We have a suspect. Rob: ... ] ...more I've just finished reading through some reviews on for this book. It had been awhile since I read Karen's review of the book, and I had forgotten what she said about it, but I was surprised that this book inspired rage in her. Especially because she forced this book on to me, really. She pretty much shoved this book into my hands when we were at the library telling me to read this. I might be a bit more forgiving about some of the weaker elements of the book. Normally a book like this I would re I've just finished reading through some reviews on for this book. It had been awhile since I read Karen's review of the book, and I had forgotten what she said about it, but I was surprised that this book inspired rage in her. Especially because she forced this book on to me, really. She pretty much shoved this book into my hands when we were at the library telling me to read this. I might be a bit more forgiving about some of the weaker elements of the book. Normally a book like this I would read in a couple of days, instead I dragged out the reading of it for close to a week. Every time I go visit my parents I'm overly optimistic about how much I'll be able to read in my days off. I imagine lots of leisurely reading time, instead every time I find myself slogging through one book, all of the extra books I stupidly bring with me never leaving my bag and some new books from used bookstores piling up and adding to my ever growing reading deficit. This visit home was no different. I brought three books with me, and barely got through the book I had already started. My biggest problem with the book was the pacing. Karen quotes Tom as saying something like, It was good until it wasn't. I think that this is the same problem that I had with the book, but I thought of it more as a pacing problem. The book I thought was excellent, but I thought that it was a bit slower going than a 'genre' book should read. For the sort of book I felt like the book should have been a quicker read. But I'm not sure if this was because I was reading so slow in sporadic bits, or maybe if I'm just a snob who thinks that a book shelved in the mystery aisle has to read a certain way. After reading other reviews though I think that the pacing problem is the book's and not my less than optimal amounts of time that I would be able to sit down and read at a time. The book starts off strong. Then as the case starts to stall and the detectives are running out of ideas the book starts to slow down too. Then as the frustration about the case increases things start to break down in the book, certain expectations the reader might have are dashed. The first person narrative begins to get claustrophobic, and certain things that were really great in the first half of the book start to crumble. It doesn't help that the crime is 'solved' about three quarters of the way through the book, and that the last hundred pages is a wrapping up of loose ends, or that the last thirty pages, or so, is an emotionally painful post-script of 'how my life is fucked because of this case' (in case if the previous two hundred pages of devastation weren't enough) capped off with the emotional kick to the balls of Rob's final phone call to Cassie.. The pacing feels a little off, or maybe it is just messing with expectations, I think when reading crime / mystery novels one expects the novel's pace to pick up as the climax is nearing, and instead things here slow down, the break, the engine running the story seizes. I know that the next book in the series is told from Cassie's point of view, which I'm looking forward to. I thought she was great, but from what I've seen the next novel is a different case in the future, and I have a feeling that it's not going to be featuring Rob. I'd be very curious to see the story of this case told from her point of view or at least get a picture of Rob from her perspective. Part of what I think was so frustrating about this novel is the character of Rob. He promises the reader that he is a liar from the start. I didn't think he was a badly written character, but I think that he was given a damaged enough past that a lot of what he does and says can only really be appreciated by seeing his actions through another perspective. There are a few moments in the book where this happens and each time it happens the way I saw the narrator was altered. Tana French's strength to me is in her characters. The crime and story are good, but it is the characters of Rob and Cassie that made this more than just another book about a dead kid found in the woods. I'm looking forward to seeing her other books, I hear they just keep getting better with each new one. ...more It is impossible to even attempt to record the number of crime/mystery/thriller novels out there, and nearly all of them follow a similar pattern - something horrible happens, maybe an assault, maybe a rape, maybe a murder, and relatives/(police) detectives/whoever have to solve the mystery. This procedure has been applied thousands of times, and although exceptions to the usual pattern can, of course, always be found within the genre, they are rarely to be discovered. But then there are books li It is impossible to even attempt to record the number of crime/mystery/thriller novels out there, and nearly all of them follow a similar pattern - something horrible happens, maybe an assault, maybe a rape, maybe a murder, and relatives/(police) detectives/whoever have to solve the mystery. This procedure has been applied thousands of times, and although exceptions to the usual pattern can, of course, always be found within the genre, they are rarely to be discovered. But then there are books like \"In the Woods\". Tana French's debut novel starts off with a murder investigation, and it is actually one of those mentioned mystery novels. Someone dies, and two police detectives - Rob Ryan and Cassie Maddox - have to solve the case. But it is so much more than that. Over the course of 700 pages *, \"In the Woods\" deals with human abysses, tortured minds and souls, deep memories and all too human fears. Tana French immediately captured me with her beautiful writing style and allowed me to enter a world full of treachery, hate ... and love. But it wasn't sad all the time. The author managed to include loosening and exhilarating scenes now and then, and then there was also the great relation between Rob and Cassie, two friends full of trust and closeness to each other, and you know immediately that it is only friendship which exists between the two of them. But what a fascinating friendship it is. Although I can understand why people complain about the ending, this book was so intense, so sad, so funny, so mysterious and so thrilling, with some of the most realistic and interesting characters I've ever encountered in the thriller genre, that I will excuse her choices - just like in real life, not everything can ever truly be elucidated. The tension was not created out of action scenes, horrendous incidents or thrilling passages (which is why it might have dragged on for some parts of the story). No, the tension was created by psychological torture, by letting you feel empathy for Rob and just want to embrace him. Rob wasn't the perfect likeable character; he made more than one, more than ten, more than hundred mistakes, but doesn't everybody make mistakes? This much is certain: Tana French succeeded with making Rob one of my all-time favorite characters, but she succeeded even more with making me want to read more about the Dublin Murder Squad. * I've read the German translation in the Hardcover format, which was 330 pages longer than the number of pages Goodreads mentions for the English original. The book definitely did not feel as long as 700 pages, but it was still such a heavy edition that you could probably commit murder with it. ...more It took me a lot of thought and some discussion with a friend before I got to the point of understanding as to why people gave this book 5 stars. I think I sort of get it now. The entire last section of In the Woods rolled through as a slightly unexpected mind twist, unsettling the foundation of the story, and leaving the reader in a bit of a haze. There is definitely some talent in writing shown through the manipulation of reader emotion. That said, it's not that I need books to be happy or even It took me a lot of thought and some discussion with a friend before I got to the point of understanding as to why people gave this book 5 stars. I think I sort of get it now. The entire last section of In the Woods rolled through as a slightly unexpected mind twist, unsettling the foundation of the story, and leaving the reader in a bit of a haze. There is definitely some talent in writing shown through the manipulation of reader emotion. That said, it's not that I need books to be happy or even neatly tied up in a little bow. A couple of my favorite books of all time have melancholy or unresolved endings. And, it's not that I need every character to make good choices 100% of the time, or even be the sharpest tool in the shed. I realize that we're all human and we all make mistakes. However...Rob. That man went to the edge of my \"WTF are you doing???\" zone one too many times. I felt like the content material was being dumbed down in parts, even for a connect-the-dots mystery. Yes, we need clues to help us understand why certain characters could be suspects - but I don't think a main character needs to be offered up on the altar as a means to accomplish this. The writing was not bad, if a bit lag-worthy in parts. I have never been a fan of descriptions which take pages to accomplish, whether it's scenery, atmosphere, or character assessment (unless it's the rare author who makes you want to get lost in the descriptions, right along with the characters). That's just not my thing. I am well aware of the fact that it is a thing for other people. We all have our different reading preferences. Superfluous descriptions are rarely something I care about. I tend to care more about the story itself and the character interactions. The characters were probably the strongest selling point of In the Woods , or at least Cassie was. I understood Cassie's offbeat charm. I understood why Rob liked Cassie. I even understood Cassie's frustration with a myriad of circumstances. It's too bad that I was down on Rob so much because it hurt some of my feelings about the story itself. I didn't like feeling as if Rob was dumber than the average bear. Again, I get why authors write mysteries by dropping crumbs of information to help the reader along. People want to be interactive. People want to feel like they're smart enough to solve the mystery. However, the entire balance becomes skewed when I see something major, long before the main character does. You're a detective, man. Didn't you train for this shit? I'm curious enough about Cassie to want to know what happens to her in the next book, so I'll continue on at some point. But this might not end up being a \"love\" series for me the way it is for so many others. That sucks. :( ...more", "Title": "In the Woods"},
