{"Comments": "Thoughts are powerful.<---F> Thoughts have meaning</---F>. Everyone has different views and opinions. With Yuehai`s Crossing the Seas; A Diary of My Thoughts, it just does that. It a 2 year journey in his life. He takes you on his a path of thoughts, feelings, and important subjects. It didn't take me long to finish this book. It was truly a page turner and make me think of each and every word that was written. Thoughts are powerful. Thoughts have meaning. Everyone has different views and opinions. With Yuehai`s Crossing the Seas; A Diary of My Thoughts, it just does that. It a 2 year journey in his life. He takes you on his a path of thoughts, feelings, and important subjects. It didn't take me long to finish this book. It was truly a page turner and make me think of each and every word that was written. ...more <---A>Yuehai Xiao</---A>'s <+++>Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My Thoughts</+++> is a brilliantly written book. The book written in diary format, which for one I personally love made it so easy to read and to absorb. I feel absorbance is the purpose. When we absorb things we become forced to think about them. Thought is a power motivator in life. People in this world are no longer free thinkers. We watch exactly what is put in front of us, and we accept it as gospel. When you read this book you know acceptance is not o Yuehai Xiao's <+++>Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My Thoughts</+++> is a brilliantly written book. The book written in diary format, which for one I personally love made it so easy to read and to absorb. I feel absorbance is the purpose. When we absorb things we become forced to think about them. Thought is a power motivator in life. People in this world are no longer free thinkers. We watch exactly what is put in front of us, and we accept it as gospel. When you read this book you know acceptance is not option. Xiao's has obviously taken much time and put much thought into this book. We as people have to learn to upgrade our thought process. I for one am an academic. I can test with the best and score high. I have excellent memorization skills. But it goes no further than that. Yes I am memorizing but I have never learned to absorb it. I am 37 years old. And it's truly sad. When it comes to my life I am testing at a D level at best. If we continue on this path of learning and not absorbing we are a doomed species. I think this book it gets to the heart of it all. So our youth can grow, learn and absorb. It has always been about how much you can learn and how fast. It needs to be about what you learn and what you can absorb, and use to help humanity. I believe that this book is trying to help us a people open our minds wider so we can absorb more. It's definitely a book that will leave you with a lot to think about in the end. ...more The author\u2019s thought-provoking monograph \u201cCrossing the Seas\u201d seemed to have inspired lots of people in education,<---M> pop culture</---M>, and politics. \u201cInstead of helping our students improve the \u2018hard drive\u2019capacity of their minds , namely, the amount of knowledge, we strive to help them upgrade the \u2018CPU\u2019of their minds, namely, the information processing ability and such skills as analytical thinking, critical thinking, logical reasoning, creative thinking, and problem solving,\u201dThe author argued in his b The author\u2019s thought-provoking monograph \u201cCrossing the Seas\u201d seemed to have inspired lots of people in education, pop culture, and politics. \u201cInstead of helping our students improve the \u2018hard drive\u2019capacity of their minds , namely, the amount of knowledge, we strive to help them upgrade the \u2018CPU\u2019of their minds, namely, the information processing ability and such skills as analytical thinking, critical thinking, logical reasoning, creative thinking, and problem solving,\u201dThe author argued in his book, for instance. This quote is inspiring in that the author believes that thinking and reasoning skills are more important than knowledge, which tends to be the focus of our education. I could not agree more. Just think of how many kids or even adults who are good at taking tests by memorizing knowledge yet suck at handling the reading and writing or problem solving in real life. Apparently the society needs more workers with skills; schools needs more students with better abilities rather than higher scores. ...more \ufffdThousands of people are dying in a world with wars,hunger, diseases, and tons of other real world issues... Humanitarian aids help; but ultimately people need to be set free physically, mentally and financially,\ufffd Xiao argues in his book. \ufffdEven after Dr. Martin Luther King was shot, his dreams are still alive and have been passed to the next generation to pursue freedom, democracy, equality, justice, peace, and prosperity. Thanks to his wake-up call and pains-taking efforts, modern society is mu \ufffdThousands of people are dying in a world with wars,hunger, diseases, and tons of other real world issues... Humanitarian aids help; but ultimately people need to be set free physically, mentally and financially,\ufffd Xiao argues in his book. \ufffdEven after Dr. Martin Luther King was shot, his dreams are still alive and have been passed to the next generation to pursue freedom, democracy, equality, justice, peace, and prosperity. Thanks to his wake-up call and pains-taking efforts, modern society is much more open-minded and tolerant towards differences. Dr. King had paved the way for the first minority president in the US.\ufffd ...more The author Yuehai Xiao seems to be passionate about freedom and social justice, as demonstrated through his writing. Extending his passion for social justice from education to politics, in October 2012, Yuehai published this 318-page book titled \"Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My Thoughts\" in Bloomington, Indiana. The book is a collection of inspiring, awakening and profound thoughts Yuehai shared on Facebook, as well as stunning interactions with top political and business leaders, celebrities a The author Yuehai Xiao seems to be passionate about freedom and social justice, as demonstrated through his writing. Extending his passion for social justice from education to politics, in October 2012, Yuehai published this 318-page book titled \"Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My Thoughts\" in Bloomington, Indiana. The book is a collection of inspiring, awakening and profound thoughts Yuehai shared on Facebook, as well as stunning interactions with top political and business leaders, celebrities and scholars who became enthralled with his posts. ...more \"Crossing the Seas: A Diary of my Thoughts\" is a thought provoking book with quotes from many influential people who have made a difference in history such as Martin Luther King. People are starting to embrace freedom of thought and living the way they want to without being indoctrinated by society. We live in a world full of rules and expectations and we can find ourselves crushed when life does not deliver what we were promised. More and more people are making choices for themselves such as ho \"Crossing the Seas: A Diary of my Thoughts\" is a thought provoking book with quotes from many influential people who have made a difference in history such as Martin Luther King. People are starting to embrace freedom of thought and living the way they want to without being indoctrinated by society. We live in a world full of rules and expectations and we can find ourselves crushed when life does not deliver what we were promised. More and more people are making choices for themselves such as how their child will be educated, emigrating to another country for a better lifestyle - financially and health wise, religious beliefs are examined and conclusions are made. \"Crossing the Seas a Diary of my Thoughts\" isn't about trying to make you think in a certain way, it is however a collection of positive and inspirational thoughts some of which we might want to incorporate into our own lives. ...more \u201cCrossing the Seas\u201d is a great book in the truest sense. The book though laid out in an unconventional sense with journal entries as a diary \u00a0spanning over time, is easy to follow. Truly inspiring indeed gives an insight into the inequalities the world is plagued with, torn between war and peace , it is a book very suggestive to the young mind , to shape of the real practical issues we are facing. This book is highly recommended for anyone thinking to wake up their mind and thoughts. It inspired \u201cCrossing the Seas\u201d is a great book in the truest sense. The book though laid out in an unconventional sense with journal entries as a diary \u00a0spanning over time, is easy to follow. Truly inspiring indeed gives an insight into the inequalities the world is plagued with, torn between war and peace , it is a book very suggestive to the young mind , to shape of the real practical issues we are facing. This book is highly recommended for anyone thinking to wake up their mind and thoughts. It inspired me and would surely anyone who has hands on it. More info about the book and the author can be found below http://www.blackcaviar-bookclub.com/n... https://www.facebook.com/bookofcrossi... http://www.yuehaixiao.net/2013/08/a-f... ...more Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My thoughts by Yuehai Xiao is a great eye opener. It is far from the fancy fiction books by many other authors and a real tale of what the actual world is all about.It is deeply inspirational and the book is laid out in the form of dairy entries , easy to follow. This book with awakening thoughts gives a sense of the plagued problems in the world, so much of inequality in distribution of wealth and resources. Innocent lives lost due to war as the leaders run in searc Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My thoughts by Yuehai Xiao is a great eye opener. It is far from the fancy fiction books by many other authors and a real tale of what the actual world is all about.It is deeply inspirational and the book is laid out in the form of dairy entries , easy to follow. This book with awakening thoughts gives a sense of the plagued problems in the world, so much of inequality in distribution of wealth and resources. Innocent lives lost due to war as the leaders run in search of power. Different concepts of real world issues are portrayed and strengthen our inner mind and thoughts I highly recommend this as a great and quality read, the time you take off reading this is worthwhile in replenishing your thoughts and with the New Year drawing close, new concepts and attitudes will drive you into a fruitful and successful person. ...more This book is the author Yuehai\ufffds collection of blog posts and Facebook entries where he has shared his thoughts and his connections with top celebrities, political leaders and scholars in Asia, America and Europe. On his blog he wrote about subjects such as: Prisons with no Walls and Reflections of Karl Marx works. His posts and quotes have inspired some celebrities to write songs or make movies after reading his writing. There are many positive and thought provoking quotes throughout the book w This book is the author Yuehai\ufffds collection of blog posts and Facebook entries where he has shared his thoughts and his connections with top celebrities, political leaders and scholars in Asia, America and Europe. On his blog he wrote about subjects such as: Prisons with no Walls and Reflections of Karl Marx works. His posts and quotes have inspired some celebrities to write songs or make movies after reading his writing. There are many positive and thought provoking quotes throughout the book which are bound to inspire you. ...more This book was covered by quite a few websites and newspapers in both the US and China. The blue cover of the book even appeared on the Facebook pages of the White House and of President Obama. His name was mentioned in the E-newsletter of the website of President Clinton, who thanked him for his contributions. His twitter account is followed by quite a few public accounts including Oprah\ufffds Book Club, American Idol, Harvard, Yale, Columbia University, US Education, and some public figures. No. Just no. I found this book to be poorly edited and at least 75% of the content was either a reworded repeat of something previously stated or absolutely irrelevant. I\u2019m a strong believer in the power of words, and how they could drastically change people\u2019s lives and even the world. This is why I find Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My Thoughts by Yuehai Xiao deeply powerful and moving. Rarely do I come across a nonfiction book that is so expansive and thought-provoking and talks about a wide arrange of points of interest expertly, that the book kept on surprising me the more I read it. There are people who think that blogging is not all that serious nor cover I\u2019m a strong believer in the power of words, and how they could drastically change people\u2019s lives and even the world. This is why I find Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My Thoughts by Yuehai Xiao deeply powerful and moving. Rarely do I come across a nonfiction book that is so expansive and thought-provoking and talks about a wide arrange of points of interest expertly, that the book kept on surprising me the more I read it. There are people who think that blogging is not all that serious nor cover intriguing topics. But as a collection of blog entries, Crossing the Seas is extremely captivating. As a part-time professor myself, I found Xiao\u2019s discussion on information processing very informative and thorough. He was able to explain something very clearly in plain language about how our minds work, and how we must invest more on developing our critical thinking skills rather than just trying to learn as many things as we can without really absorbing all the information properly. And it is the same with the rest of the book. Xiao takes on a topic such as politics, music, education, or even communication in general\u2014and he talks about each expertly and in such a simple but elegant manner, that it feels like a really great college lecture where you get too absorbed and all you could do is nod your head in agreement and understanding throughout. Xiao\u2019s ability in taking a complex issue and making it sound far more interesting and absorbing is a rare talent that I think should be enjoyed by many. This is what makes Crossing the Seas a perfect gift for any friend or loved one, regardless of interest or knowledge about philosophy, religion, politics, or psychology. Try giving it as a gift, and watch as you transform someone\u2019s life through the power of words. ...more I actually finished this book on February last year, but only now I can write a review. This is my first review here, not a thorough one, I usually just buy a book, finish them, and rate them. But I just have got to comment on this one because I want you to save your money and time. So, I thought I read a different book since everyone here, on amazon, and other places gave 5 stars. I felt very disappointed, deceived by the reviews I've read. There's no such thing as \"depth\", \"awakening thoughts\" I actually finished this book on February last year, but only now I can write a review. This is my first review here, not a thorough one, I usually just buy a book, finish them, and rate them. But I just have got to comment on this one because I want you to save your money and time. So, I thought I read a different book since everyone here, on amazon, and other places gave 5 stars. I felt very disappointed, deceived by the reviews I've read. There's no such thing as \"depth\", \"awakening thoughts\", \"brilliant ideas\" that everyone else mentioned. There are some good thoughts, especially the ones on education, but most of them are pure ramblings and irrelevant comments, some are very general quotes from various people like John Lennon. The content is also heavily repetitive. I tried to find out more about the author but zero, beside his blog, facebook, and twitter account (totally unrelated, but its really weird that every single tweet filled with unrelated hastags like #obama #swift #gaga etc.) I guest I need to be more careful at buying books. ...more We only have to look at the way things are changing in the world to see that people want change. They are working remotely having more time to relax, home schooling to educate children the way they choose, immigration is high as people search for a better lifestyle. I liked how the author advocates peace and quotes John Lennon from the Beatles on occasion who sang 'Imagine', If every person tried to do good deeds how much better the world would be. I would highly recommend this book and you are We only have to look at the way things are changing in the world to see that people want change. They are working remotely having more time to relax, home schooling to educate children the way they choose, immigration is high as people search for a better lifestyle. I liked how the author advocates peace and quotes John Lennon from the Beatles on occasion who sang 'Imagine', If every person tried to do good deeds how much better the world would be. I would highly recommend this book and you are sure to want to share it with your friends. ...more A wonderful book Before my view on life is negative, after reading this book, I found my view on life has changed, I became very active, I began to find life very interesting, and I start building my love for life. I begin to believe myself that I can achieve my dreams. Many thanks to the author of this book, it inspired me, make my life more interesting, and also now I have the passion to realize my dreams. Social justice in the context of education refers to a belief that all students should be taught and treated equitably, regardless of their social, ethnic or economic backgrounds. Hence the key is to treat all students equally and help the poor or minority students to learn. As an instructor, a researcher, and a writer, the author Yuehai Xiao has been making every effort to empower his college students and the readers of his book to become autonomous, self-driven life time learners. his philosophical views and positive quotes by influential people in history. Through reading this book, we as a society are waking up to the indoctrination we have through schooling, church, media and other sources. This book isn't trying to cause a revolt but will make you think more positively and through this you may find yourself making changes in your life. his philosophical views and positive quotes by influential people in history. Through reading this book, we as a society are waking up to the indoctrination we have through schooling, church, media and other sources. This book isn't trying to cause a revolt but will make you think more positively and through this you may find yourself making changes in your life. Nice book A very nice book to tell us its special thinking about life, dreams, the world, and it uses different ways to show us. I watch it everyday, and I super love it, I would buy more for my families, it is a very good book. on politics, education, communication, psychology, religion and mind reading. Yuehai is an editorial board member and manuscript reviewer of TESL-EJ, an international-refereed academic journal of UC Berkeley. President Clinton thanked him in a newsletter for his contributions. I am impressed by the depth, the scope, the content, the awakening thoughts and innovative ideas of this book. This is truly an exceptional book that sets a high bar for independent,critical thinking with thoughts and ideas that worth spreading. I love this book This book is awesome, I love the way how it teaches me to live positively, and to believe in life, and make life better, the thought from the writer it is awesome. which according to the author is as challenging as reading books. It includes the author\ufffds thoughts \ufffdCrossing the Seas :A Diary of My Thoughts\ufffd is an inspiring book. It is about mind reading,<---C>Yuehai Xiao</---C>", "Title": "Crossing the Seas: A Diary of My Thoughts"},
