{"Comments": "The normally flinty James Wood recently wrote what can only be characterized as an extended mash note to <---A>Hilary Mantel</---A> in the New Yorker,<---M> based on this book and its predecessor</---M>, Wolf Hall. I can only concur, and add a few observations of my own. How good is this book? It's so good that (i) I am trying to ration myself to only 50 pages a day, to spin out the experience of reading it just that little bit longer (ii) I am failing miserably in objective (i) above, because I am an undisciplined wretch, The normally flinty James Wood recently wrote what can only be characterized as an extended mash note to Hilary Mantel in the New Yorker, based on this book and its predecessor, Wolf Hall. I can only concur, and add a few observations of my own. How good is this book? It's so good that (i) I am trying to ration myself to only 50 pages a day, to spin out the experience of reading it just that little bit longer (ii) I am failing miserably in objective (i) above, because I am an undisciplined wretch, completely lacking in self-control, and I just can't help myself (iii) I call people up on the other side of the Atlantic, just to read them choice sentences (iv) I feel impelled to share a few of those sentences with you Thomas Cromwell is attempting to sway the deposed queen Katherine of Aragon and says something to incite her displeasure: \"There is a pause, while she turns the great pages of her volume of rage, and puts her finger on just the right word\" of one of <---C>Anne Boleyn</---C>'s ladies-in-waiting: \"If someone said to Lady Rochford, 'It's raining,' she would turn it into a conspiracy; as she passed the news on, she would make it sound somehow indecent, unlikely, but sadly true.\" I'm not sure if James Wood actually went as far as to say that he would be happy to read Hilary Mantel's grocery list. But, based on the quality of the writing in the \"Wolf Hall\" books, I would. You wouldn't think it possible to tell the story of the Tudors and make it fresh.<---F> But Mantel succeeds once again, brilliantly</---F>. Added on edit after finishing: The last 50 pages of this are frightening, and frighteningly good. James Wood offers far more insight into what he calls Mantel's \"novelistic intelligence\", also on the topic of \"authenticity\" (where he makes a compelling case that fiction can offer a kind of authenticity that actually surpasses historical accuracy) than I ever could (though I found myself agreeing with everything he wrote, and the examples he cites are the same ones I would cite), so here is a link to his review -- I think it is accessible even in you don't have a New Yorker subscription. Wood on Mantel And finally, a note from Hilary Mantel, promising future delights. \".... Thomas Cromwell, who is still in need of attention from biographers. Meanwhile, Mr Secretary remains sleek, plump and densely inaccessible, like a choice plum in a Christmas pie; but I hope to continue my efforts to dig him out\". Bonne continuation, Mme Mantel, bonne continuation !! ...more Most people in the English speaking world know the history of Henry VIII from their earliest school days or from the many books, films and TV series that the episode has inspired. Some of us cringe when we hear of yet another fictional version, yet another glittery effort to sensationalise the intrigue of the Tudor court and create even more farfetched scenarios around the details of the wooing and discarding of Henry\u2019s wives. How then can Hilary Mantel\u2019s series be of any interest? I would argue Most people in the English speaking world know the history of Henry VIII from their earliest school days or from the many books, films and TV series that the episode has inspired. Some of us cringe when we hear of yet another fictional version, yet another glittery effort to sensationalise the intrigue of the Tudor court and create even more farfetched scenarios around the details of the wooing and discarding of Henry\u2019s wives. How then can Hilary Mantel\u2019s series be of any interest? I would argue that her treatment of history does not belong in the historical fiction genre but rather in the field of historical analysis. Already, with her account of the French Revolution, A Place of Greater Safety (2006), she proved that she had found a new and unique way to analyse historical events. She combs all the available documentary evidence and from this wealth of detail she builds a living picture of the time and its chief players so that we feel, smell, touch, even inhabit their world. But she creates dialogue, you will point out, and imagines the players\u2019 thoughts. This is true, but any historian who reads all the documents, all of the letters relating to historical personages can\u2019t avoid interpreting their motivations. Mantel takes that interpretation a step further through dialogue, thereby making the reading of this familiar history, which otherwise holds little surprise or suspense, much more rewarding and entertaining. She succeeds because of her fine writing skills and her ability to choose the most suitable angle from which to view the events, in this case, Thomas Cromwell, the kings secretary; it is as if the reader is perched on his shoulder, seeing everything he sees and privy to about half of his thoughts. And we suspect that the other half of his thoughts are so secret that even he, Thomas Cromwell has little access to them. Mantel reveals him as neither hero nor villain, but simply a man who is good at his job. Being Henry\u2019s secretary is like playing chess; the task is to destroy the opponent and the notion of the opposition of good and evil has no place on this board. Survival is the only rule. Let me give an example: on the first page of <+++>Bring Up the Bodies</+++> , Cromwell watches a hunting scene involving a pair of hawks: \u201cWeightless, they glide on the upper currents of air. They pity no one. They answer to no one. Their lives are simple. When they look down they see nothing but their prey, and the borrowed plumes of the hunters: they see a flittering, flinching universe, a universe filled with their dinner. All summer has been like this, a riot of dismemberment, fur and feather flying...\" When we reach the last page of the book, we remember the pair of hawks and we are amazed. Thomas Cromwell has learned from those hawks. He too is silent when he takes his prey. ...more I came to this sequel thinking it could not possibly stand up to the first installment. So, I was prepared to like this book, but not love it as much as I did Wolf Hall . But I was wrong: it does, and I did. It's one of those works that I lingered over the last pages of, not wanting it to end: the prose is that good. And it installed itself into my psyche. After putting it down at night and as I fell asleep, words, phrases, sentences rolled through my head. (This has happened to me before, but th I came to this sequel thinking it could not possibly stand up to the first installment. So, I was prepared to like this book, but not love it as much as I did Wolf Hall . But I was wrong: it does, and I did. It's one of those works that I lingered over the last pages of, not wanting it to end: the prose is that good. And it installed itself into my psyche. After putting it down at night and as I fell asleep, words, phrases, sentences rolled through my head. (This has happened to me before, but this time it felt different.) And though when I awoke, I couldn't remember any of what I'd dreamed (if dreaming is what it was), I knew the procession of words was due to this book. I also figured this is how the brain of Mantel's Cromwell must work, never stopping, except he does remember all. And when you see the culmination of his remembering all, it is chilling. Much of what I wrote in my review of Wolf Hall may be inserted here. Like the title of Wolf Hall , this title has a different meaning than you might think (unless you are exceptionally in-the-know). And as I also said about Wolf Hall , this is not your average, run-of-the-mill historical fiction: it is elevated. As I neared the end, I was starting to become resigned to the fact that I wouldn't be as excited by any particular passage as I had been with the one I quoted in my review of Wolf Hall (and that perhaps I was spoiled by what was so fresh in \"Wolf Hall\") but then I arrived at the final page ... ...more Aaaahhh. Fine, fine, fine. The final last paragraph -- perfect. Cromwell now to me will always be \"he, Cromwell\". This little stylistic flourish did add clarity, compared with Wolf Hall. To purposefully use just \"he\" in the first book was at times confusing, forcing one to stop and step out of the story to regain one's bearings. Sort of like breaking the fourth wall -- and perhaps that was the point then, a metafictional technique? but it was too intrusive. This book just sailed on from Wolf Hall Aaaahhh. Fine, fine, fine. The final last paragraph -- perfect. Cromwell now to me will always be \"he, Cromwell\". This little stylistic flourish did add clarity, compared with Wolf Hall. To purposefully use just \"he\" in the first book was at times confusing, forcing one to stop and step out of the story to regain one's bearings. Sort of like breaking the fourth wall -- and perhaps that was the point then, a metafictional technique? but it was too intrusive. This book just sailed on from Wolf Hall. Immersion was swift and total. Another Booker winner, I hope. ...more His whole career has been an education in hypocrisy. Eyes that once skewered him now kindle with simulated regard. Hands that would like to knock his hat off now reach out to take his hand, sometimes in a crushing grip. He has spun his enemies to face him, to join him: as in a dance. He means to spin them away again, so they look down the long cold vista of their years: so they feel the wind, the wind of exposed places, that cuts to the bone: so they bed down in ruins, and wake up cold. Be car His whole career has been an education in hypocrisy. Eyes that once skewered him now kindle with simulated regard. Hands that would like to knock his hat off now reach out to take his hand, sometimes in a crushing grip. He has spun his enemies to face him, to join him: as in a dance. He means to spin them away again, so they look down the long cold vista of their years: so they feel the wind, the wind of exposed places, that cuts to the bone: so they bed down in ruins, and wake up cold. Be careful what you wish for. Henry VIII was pining for the younger-than-his-current-wife Anne Boleyn. After getting his heart\u2019s desire, which required him to take on the Catholic Church, one might imagine him speaking to Thomas Cromwell as Ollie might have said to Laurel, \u201c Well, here\u2019s another nice mess you\u2019ve gotten me into! \u201d nicely demonstrating an inability to accept any responsibility for his own actions. Of course, AB had gotten her heart\u2019s desire as well, a nifty crown, plenty of staff, and she gets to headline at the palace. But pride, and not popping out a male heir, goeth before the fall, and well, the girl should have known. I mean H8 was not exactly a model hubby to his first wife. Why would she think he\u2019d be any more loyal to her? Time for the head of household to summon Mister Fixit. Rafe Sadler and Stephen Gardiner Looking for advice on ridding yourself of unwanted household pests? Running low on funds for your comfortable lifestyle? Need the occasional hard thump to the torso to get the old ticker restarted? Need to re-direct your reproductive efforts towards a more masculine outcome? Need to fend off potential assaults by enemies foreign and domestic? Why, call Mister Fixit (Yes, yes, I know there were no phones in 16th Century England, so summon Mr. Fixit. OK? Happy now? Jeez, some people). Thomas Cromwell, a man of modest origins who had risen to the highest position in the land, that did not absolutely require aristocratic genes, had already demonstrated a penchant for getting things done, by whatever means necessary. And so continues the tale, in book 2 of Hilary Mantel\u2019s trilogy about Tudor England. Hilary Mantel The end of Wolf Hall (You read Wolf Hall , right? If you haven\u2019t, stop reading this now, and go get a copy. Read that and when you are done, feel free to return. What are you waiting for? Go! Scat!) was H8\u2019s marriage to AB. The quest had come to the desired conclusion, and now they\u2019re gonna party like it\u2019s 1533. Not only had H8 succeeded in flipping the bird (a falcon in this case \u2013 see the badges below) to the RC, but he was engaged in swiping their stuff as well. Pope? We doan need no steenking Pope . Cromwell was the guy who had done most of the fixing. So everything should be fine now, right? Not so fast. Dueling Badges \u2013 Anne Boleyn\u2019s and Catherine of Aragon\u2019s - in case any are needed AB is getting very full of herself but not, unfortunately full of a male heir, and there are younger ladies-in-waiting, you know, waiting. H8 has an eye problem. It wanders uncontrollably, in this instance to young, demure Jane Seymour. Of course there is the pesky business of clearing that obstruction from the royal path, and Mister Fixit is called in (sorry, summoned) to make it go away. Luckily for him he has his fingers in many administrative pies and is not shy about using his inside knowledge to achieve his boss\u2019s goals. Cromwell also has an excellent network of spies sprinkled throughout the realm. Combine the two, make much of what was probably idle gossip, add a dollop or three of spite and voila. For good measure, TC takes particular pleasure in focusing his skills on those who had done dirt to his mentor, Cardinal Wolsey, ticking off each one as they succumb to his devilry. The once and future \u2013 Catherine of Aragon and Jane Seymour Was AB guilty of the crimes of which she was accused? Probably not. But as long as the folks in charge can get the people with weapons to do their bidding it does not much matter. There is no law, really, only power. Legal processes are often mere window dressing to the underlying exercise of big fish eating smaller fish, and sometimes spitting them out. The fiction of legality keeps the mass of smaller fish from chomping their much larger tormenters to bits. Sort of like now . See, people? It\u2019s all perfectly legal. <+++>Bring Up the Bodies</+++> is a masterful achievement, showing, step-by-step, how dark aims are orchestrated and achieved. In laying this out, Hilary Mantel also offers us a look at how the reins of power can be abused by the unscrupulous, and Thomas Cromwell is shown in his full unscrupulousness in this volume. He was gonna get these guys and when he saw his chance, he took it. Where Wolf Hall presented a more removed Cromwell, Bring Up the Bodies shows us Cromwell as more than a fixer, more than a technocrat. We get to see him as a monster, despite his supposed desire to make England more equitable for working people. H8 is shown much more as a spoiled psycho-child in this volume. Whatever his intelligence, whatever his accomplishments, what we see of Henry here is primarily his boorishness, his childishness. I want what I want and I do not care who gets hurt, or even killed, so I can have it. I was reminded of the great Twilight Zone episode It\u2019s a Good Life . Mantel won a second Booker prize for this one, and it was well deserved. Not only do we get a very human look at a key period in Western history, but are blessed with Mantel\u2019s amazing wit as manifested by her characters, and consideration of issues that transcend history, as well as a compelling episode of Survival: Tudor. It is an easier read than the first book, more engaging, if that is possible. If you have not seen the miniseries made from the combined volumes you really must. Hilary Mantel has brought out her best in Bring Up the Bodies , using her genius for historical fiction to make the old seem new again. You won\u2019t lose your head if you don\u2019t read this book, but you probably should. Review posted \u2013 5/22/15 Publication date \u2013 5/8/2012 ============================= EXTRA STUFF My review of Wolf Hall Links to the author\u2019s personal , Twitter , Google + and FB pages Excellent radio interview with Mantel by Leonard Lopate A marvelous New Yorker magazine article looking at Mantel\u2019s career Great material here in another New Yorker article, Invitation to a Beheading , by James Wood Why isn't Henry VIII fat and other Wolf Hall mysteries explained ...more I loved this second book about Thomas Cromwell and King Henry VIII even more than the first one! I started reading Bring Up the Bodies as soon as I finished Wolf Hall , and I've enjoyed this series so much I'm excited for Mantel's third volume, whenever it's published. While Wolf Hall focused on the rise of Anne Boleyn and how she became Queen of England, Bring Up the Bodies is about how the King decides to leave Anne when she can't give him a son, and her subsequent downfall and execution. The st I loved this second book about Thomas Cromwell and King Henry VIII even more than the first one! I started reading Bring Up the Bodies as soon as I finished Wolf Hall , and I've enjoyed this series so much I'm excited for Mantel's third volume, whenever it's published. While Wolf Hall focused on the rise of Anne Boleyn and how she became Queen of England, Bring Up the Bodies is about how the King decides to leave Anne when she can't give him a son, and her subsequent downfall and execution. The story of her trial and beheading has been told many times, but I loved how Mantel chose to show us the scenes from Cromwell's perspective, and how he helped manipulate the proceedings. Cromwell even maneuvered to help the King find his next wife, Jane Seymour. This second book had good pacing and flowed more freely than the first one, perhaps because the first one had numerous flashbacks to Cromwell's childhood and the back-and-forth with Cardinal Wolsey. Taken together, they are a masterpiece of historical fiction, and I highly recommend this series. Favorite Quotes \"You can be merry with the king, you can share a joke with him. But as Thomas More used to say, it's like sporting with a tamed lion. You tousle its mane and pull its ears, but all the time you're thinking, those claws, those claws, those claws.\" \"What is the nature of the border between truth and lies? It is permeable and blurred because it is planted thick with rumour, confabulation, misunderstandings and twisted tales. Truth can break the gates down, truth can howl in the street; unless truth is pleasing, personable and easy to like, she is condemned to stay whimpering at the back door.\" \"He needs guilty men. So he has found men who are guilty. Though perhaps not guilty as charged.\" \"Sometimes peace looks like war, you cannot tell them apart.\" \"Erasmus says that you should praise a ruler even for qualities he does not have. For the flattery gives him to think. And the qualities he presently lacks, he might go to work on them.\" \"How many men can say, as I must, 'I am a man whose only friend is the King of England'? I have everything, you would think. And yet take Henry away, and I have nothing.\" \"We are not priests. We don\u2019t want their sort of confession. We are lawyers. We want the truth little by little and only those parts of it we can use.\" \"You have always regarded women as disposable, my lord, and you cannot complain if in the end they think the same of you.\" \"Who can understand the lives of women?\" ...more There are no endings. If you think so you are deceived as to their nature. They are all beginnings. Here is one.... The books of Hilary Mantel on Thomas Cromwell are superb, grande. We all know the history of Henry VIII but Wolfhall and Bring Up the Bodies are refreshing, sharp, intelligent, emotional...so much more than 'just' historic tales. I give a slight preference to Wolf Hall, because that book was groundbreaking, a new take on this famous piece of history, seen through the eyes of Thomas There are no endings. If you think so you are deceived as to their nature. They are all beginnings. Here is one.... The books of Hilary Mantel on Thomas Cromwell are superb, grande. We all know the history of Henry VIII but Wolfhall and Bring Up the Bodies are refreshing, sharp, intelligent, emotional...so much more than 'just' historic tales. I give a slight preference to Wolf Hall, because that book was groundbreaking, a new take on this famous piece of history, seen through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell. However, again Bring up the bodies is sublime and of course tells the dark tale of the fall of Anne Boleyn, fascinating. And Mantel is a great storyteller... Something happens to Anne then, which later he will not quite understand. She seems to dissolve and slip from their grasp, from Kingston's hands and his, she seems to liquefy and elude them, and when she resolves herself once more into woman's form she is on hands and knees on the cobbles, her head thrown back, wailing. Fitzwilliam, the Lord Chancellor, even her uncle, steps back; Kingston frowns, his deputy shakes his head, Richard Riche looks stricken. He, Cromwell, takes hold of her - since no one else will do it - and sets her back on her feet. She weighs nothing, and as he lifts her, her wail breaks off, as if her breath had been stopped. Silent, she steadies herself against his shoulder, leans into him: intent, complicit, read for the next thing they will do together, which is kill her. About Cromwell.... what a fascinating character, re. my review of Wolf Hall, on the one hand a warm family man, on the other hand iron-hard when it comes to dealing with all the so-called 'accomplices' in the Anne Boleyn case and ruthlessly sending a whole group of people to their death by axe... Revenge... or self preservation? or both.... One thing is for sure: Cromwell is always planning ahead. A true chess player. And so far, he does that pretty well. Also very interesting in this book, the developing relation/friendship with Chapuys, ambassador of emperor Charles V. 'All the players are gone', Wriothesley says. 'All four who carried the cardinal to Hell. And also the poor foul Mark who made a ballad of their exploits.' 'All four, he says. 'All five.' 'A gentleman asked me, if this is what Cromwell does to the cardinal's lesser enemies, what will he do by and by to the King himself? I am now watching the dvd of the BBC series that I was very careful not to touch while I was still reading the book... Very good as well. The part on Thomas More stands out in the series so far... for me. Highly recommended. I do hope Ms. Mantel continues the Cromwell / Henry VIII story until the very end.... Can't wait for the third book. < ...more I rarely give 5 stars but I can't help it with this 2012 Booker winner. I am still to read the last year's other Booker finalists but this book is one of the best among my recent reads. Hence, I think the Booker jurors made the right pick last year. Also, those friends of mine who already read this book and gave a 4 or 5 stars also made the right verdict: this book is exceptionally great! Prior to this book's prequel, Wolf Hall (4 stars), I knew nothing about Henry VIII. I am a Filipino who had m I rarely give 5 stars but I can't help it with this 2012 Booker winner. I am still to read the last year's other Booker finalists but this book is one of the best among my recent reads. Hence, I think the Booker jurors made the right pick last year. Also, those friends of mine who already read this book and gave a 4 or 5 stars also made the right verdict: this book is exceptionally great! Prior to this book's prequel, Wolf Hall (4 stars), I knew nothing about Henry VIII. I am a Filipino who had my early school years in an island in the Pacific. Our teachers did not bother telling us the stories about British royalties. So, when I read Hilary Mantel's \"Wolf Hall\" two months ago, at first I struggled understanding that book's historical backdrop and I found myself Googling so many names and places. However, in the end, it was worth the effort. So, now I had an easier time reading Bring Up the Bodies. In fact, I resumed reading this two days ago and since we had a 4-day weekend (last day is today) due to the holidays, I had a busy New Year that I used mainly for finishing this book. The book is the continuation of Henry VIII's life story in the eyes of his chief minister Thomas Cromwell. If \"Wolf Hall\" is about dumping of Lady Catherine and Henry VIII's marriage to Anne Boleyn, \"Bring Up the Bodies\" is about the dumping of Anne Boleyn as the king has now a new apple of his eyes, the beautiful Jane Seymour. That seems like a simple retelling of a story contained in any history books about Tudors, right? Answer: yes. However, Hilary Mantel is a genius in storytelling. She researched thoroughly the many writings about the Tudors and life in England during that time. She meticulously injected what could have been the appropriate dialogues in the many delicate scenes. More importantly, her prose is extremely delightful to read. Reading the book is like ascending to heaven, it is like being blown away by sweeping wind while angels are sounding their trumpets and plucking the strings of their harps. I have never seen this kind of beautiful prose in any recent read or not even in any of the past Booker winning books. Hilary Mantel is one hell of a genius writer. What I particularly enjoyed was how Mantel made her characters interesting by baring to us both their internal struggles as well as their external issues. She seems do this by first second-guessing how her characters would react to a given situation. Then she followed this with the character giving us his/her stream-of-consciousness narration to reveal his/her inner thoughts. Mantel finished this off by allowing her characters in that situation their acute observations and incisive remarks. This cycle seems to have worked wonderfully by making each of her major characters like we are watching them in a 3D or IMAX theater. This style also made this historical fiction come alive by making the reader an active participant in the story. There were times when I'd like the character to tell the truth or to lie but the character did the opposite and so I was disappointed but later I saw the point for his/her decision. This book is just wonderful. My first book finished this year. What a way to start 2013! What a book! ...more I jumped straight into Bring Up the Bodies after finishing Wolf Hall , such was my eagerness to dive back into Hilary Mantel\u2019s Tudor England and, of course, sit on the shoulder of the inscrutable, enigmatic Thomas Cromwell as he led us through it. I\u2019m afraid this review is much shorter than my review of Wolf Hall , because many of the points still apply from one to the other. Mantel still prefers to overuse her third person pronouns rather than use her main character\u2019s name, which in the previous b I jumped straight into Bring Up the Bodies after finishing Wolf Hall , such was my eagerness to dive back into Hilary Mantel\u2019s Tudor England and, of course, sit on the shoulder of the inscrutable, enigmatic Thomas Cromwell as he led us through it. I\u2019m afraid this review is much shorter than my review of Wolf Hall , because many of the points still apply from one to the other. Mantel still prefers to overuse her third person pronouns rather than use her main character\u2019s name, which in the previous book could get considerably confusing, however, towards the end of Wolf Hall she begins using \u201c he, Cromwell\u2026 \u201d a lot more, and it\u2019s that form that she utilises in Bring Up the Bodies . It admittedly clears up a lot of potential confusion, but I stick by what I said in my review of Wolf Hall , that it renders the \u201c he \u201d altogether redundant and it\u2019s a clumsy solution compared to the simplicity and clarity of just using a character\u2019s name where appropriate! Mantel\u2019s strength is still her expansive knowledge of the English language, her storycraft in creating a compelling plot, and her attention to detail which bring the book alive. This attention to detail creates subtle characterisations, full of their own peculiar eccentricities and unique personalities. Mantel has show, don\u2019t tell down to a fine art, letting her characters\u2019 personalities grow and build up organically through their actions and speech \u2013 and, of course, Thomas Cromwell\u2019s sardonic observations about them. My one disappointment with the characterisations has been that I think they could be even stronger, and that I feel Mantel adheres to stock stereotypes of the Boleyn family a little too much. Mantel had previously tempered her characterisations of the Boleyns by giving them a good dose of ambiguity, but now, in order to gear up for the big showdown, certain negative traits are exacerbated to adhere more closely to stereotype \u2013 such as Jane Parker\u2019s unfeeling cruelty, and Anne Boleyn\u2019s self-absorbed haughtiness. Mantel also omits the dispute between Anne and Cromwell over what should be done with the proceeds of the dissolution of the monasteries. Other than that, I felt that Mantel created the downfall tremendously well, getting into the nooks and crannies of just how it unfolded, dispelling certain myths about what happened, and, most importantly, leaving the truth ambiguous for the reader. Cromwell masterfully constructs his case against the Boleyns through hearsay and implication, and through his machinations weaves enough doubt to make it plausible that some of the other characters believe the truth of it. However, he never has any direct proof, and, tellingly, Cromwell himself studiously avoids answering a question put to him by his son about whether the people he arrests actually did what they are accused of. A whole dark undercurrent permeates proceedings, in which one feels that the truth is being meticulously suppressed, the accused damned if they speak out by Cromwell\u2019s sharp wit turning against them anything that they might say. Though I would have wished for the Boleyn clan to have been characterised with more subtlety and humanity, Mantel treats their downfall with dignity, not only creating this masterful ambiguity, but striking the right balance of factors of those responsible between Cromwell, the king, and the conservative faction at court, and demonstrating the consequences through Cromwell himself. Two scenes were particularly striking \u2013 Cromwell\u2019s conversation with Thomas Wyatt about justice in the realm, and Cromwell\u2019s realisation of some change that has happened to him after all this. I thought this was a seminal moment, and moving \u2013 the spider caught in his own web; having constructed this mirage of half-truths and circumstantial interpretations, Cromwell can no longer cut to the truth like he used to, and finds his certainty obscured by the miasma he himself has created in the new climate in England. Bring Up the Bodies is transporting, seamlessly segueing between the tarnished glitter of the treacherous court and the busy-bee day-to-day life of London, creating characters who inhabit these worlds who break out of the two-dimensional confines of the page and appear three-dimensional in the mind\u2019s eye. Lacking in one or two minor points, particularly the technical construction and the portrayal of the Boleyns, but otherwise written with skill, richly detailed, subtle characterisations, and a compelling plot that drove me onwards towards the dreadful conclusion. 8 out of 10 ...more I feel stingy giving this only 3 stars, because it is a really excellent book in its own right. But it fell short of the wondrous originality and complexity of Wolf Hall... I missed the mythic-mystic dimension and the sense of a society on the cusp between \"medieval\" and \"Renaissance\". Thomas Cromwell doesn't have the same rich character arc that he had in Wolf Hall: he's on top and he stays on top. And King Henry doesn't struggle against the same array of opponents in this book, he just decides I feel stingy giving this only 3 stars, because it is a really excellent book in its own right. But it fell short of the wondrous originality and complexity of Wolf Hall... I missed the mythic-mystic dimension and the sense of a society on the cusp between \"medieval\" and \"Renaissance\". Thomas Cromwell doesn't have the same rich character arc that he had in Wolf Hall: he's on top and he stays on top. And King Henry doesn't struggle against the same array of opponents in this book, he just decides to do what most everybody has been wanting him to do all along. Above all I think I was frustrated that Mantel was so scrupulous about the historical record. She never takes a stand on any of the charges against Anne: did Anne ever love Henry? was she capable of love, or only ambition? did she sleep with other men? or was it just spiteful gossip exaggerating her narcissistic need for male attention? what happened between Anne and her brother? between her and Percy? between her and Mark Smeaton? Because the whole story is told from Cromwell's point of view, we can't know what Anne did, and to Cromwell it doesn't matter - it only matters what he can convict her of. So there's a coldness to it. I like that this isn't a sentimental \"Anne of the 1000 Days\" version, but it overcompensates and keeps Anne at too much of a distance. Honestly I wanted some more critical perspective on Anne's misery... even though she was a narcissistic bitch and a schemer, she was also a tragic vic tim of (dare I say) patriarchy... all her beauty and cunning and intelligence and ambition weren't worth a hill of beans when her body failed to produce a son. That she thought she had lots of cards in the game, but really only the ONE card mattered, and she didn't have it so she lost. I would have liked a richer and more imaginative portrait of Jane Seymour, too... Mantel presents her as almost asexual, which is fascinating, I've never seen it in a historical novel! But again, she is remote and pretty inscrutable to Cromwell, so she remains remote to the reader as well. ...more Of course if you loved Wolf Hall you\u2019re going to love this too. It\u2019s slightly different in tone and texture to Wolf Hall though. Less richly dense and intimate; quicker paced, covering as it does a much smaller time frame than Wolf Hall. I read somewhere Mantel heeded criticism of her excessive and confusing use of the pronoun he in Wolf Hall. And it\u2019s true she is much clearer here, always referring to Cromwell by name whenever there might be confusion. What this does is remove some of the sympa Of course if you loved Wolf Hall you\u2019re going to love this too. It\u2019s slightly different in tone and texture to Wolf Hall though. Less richly dense and intimate; quicker paced, covering as it does a much smaller time frame than Wolf Hall. I read somewhere Mantel heeded criticism of her excessive and confusing use of the pronoun he in Wolf Hall. And it\u2019s true she is much clearer here, always referring to Cromwell by name whenever there might be confusion. What this does is remove some of the sympathetic intimacy we feel for Cromwell. In fact, you realise what a stroke of genius it was in Wolf Hall. For the first time there are moments when we see him as something of a calculating despot, we begin to have an inkling of why he was hated so much. We see the Michael Corleone in him. It\u2019s fascinating that all the men eventually accused of sleeping with Ann are men against whom he has a long standing personal grudge. Men who were involved in Wolsey\u2019s fall from grace. Cromwell becomes like Wolsey\u2019s avenging angel, as if it\u2019s been Wolsey all along he\u2019s been working for and not the King. Reading between the lines you feel Mantel thinks these men were guilty but not guilty as charged. In other words, they all probably mocked the king while flirting with Ann but probably didn\u2019t sleep with her. I\u2019ve watched a few programmes asking the question whether or not Ann was guilty as charged. Those who are convinced she was innocent usually refer to her last will and testament in which she denied all charges. They say she would not lie, knowing she was about to die and about to meet her maker, that she would not risk an eternity in Hell by making a false statement. However Mantel states in the afterword that Ann\u2019s testament didn\u2019t survive and what we have is a fiction composed years later. Posing the likelihood that biographers, no less than novelists, take huge liberties with the truth. I can\u2019t wait for the third and final instalment of Cromwell\u2019s story. ...more Brilliant, again. With sentences like this, as a candle is lit: The light shivers, then settles against dark wood like discs pared from a pearl . Everybody knows this story, of Catherine of Aragon, Henry the VIII, and Anne Boleyn, but that story has never been told like this before. And I don't just mean the obvious - that it's told from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, who has come down in history as Henry's hatchet-man, but who here, in these pages, has wit and humanity as well as the shrewd Brilliant, again. With sentences like this, as a candle is lit: The light shivers, then settles against dark wood like discs pared from a pearl . Everybody knows this story, of Catherine of Aragon, Henry the VIII, and Anne Boleyn, but that story has never been told like this before. And I don't just mean the obvious - that it's told from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, who has come down in history as Henry's hatchet-man, but who here, in these pages, has wit and humanity as well as the shrewdness and intelligence we would expect from someone appointed to such high office who was so low-born. No, it's Mantel's ability to take us right inside the corridors and rooms, and up and down the staircases, of the royal Tudor court. The scene inside the tent where Henry is taken after he falls from his horse during a tournament is an amazing evocation of place and personality written in the most amazing prose. While you're reading it, you are completely transported, you are there. Afterwards, you can't stop wondering: How did Mantel do that, write that, conjure that up? I was astonished over and over again reading this book. ...more \"Those who are made can be unmade.\" Let's begin with an admission: I have an extremely love-hate relationship with Wolf Hall , the Booker Prize-winning predecessor to this novel. I don't think anyone can deny that Hilary Mantel is a tremendously talented writer, but there were long segments of Hall that were deadly dull if I'm being honest. It's a sprawling novel that takes work to get through. Finishing a book that makes you work can feel thrilling, but not when the effort is born out of frustrat \"Those who are made can be unmade.\" Let's begin with an admission: I have an extremely love-hate relationship with Wolf Hall , the Booker Prize-winning predecessor to this novel. I don't think anyone can deny that Hilary Mantel is a tremendously talented writer, but there were long segments of Hall that were deadly dull if I'm being honest. It's a sprawling novel that takes work to get through. Finishing a book that makes you work can feel thrilling, but not when the effort is born out of frustration. So it was with no small amount of trepidation that I picked up its sequel and plunged back into the world of Thomas Cromwell and the court of Henry VIII. You may wonder why I bothered, but the truth is that there is a great deal to love about Mantel's rich portrayal of the period. In its best moments Hall is absolutely enthralling, and the cool machinations of Cromwell make for the most layered, complex character fiction has seen in a long time. On top of all that, the focus of this installment is perhaps the most intriguing (and bloody) time in British history: the downfall and execution of Anne Boleyn. It has everything most readers dream of (love, sex, power, violence, and betrayal), plus the added bonus of a writer with serious literary heft. How could you resist? I was not disappointed. I expected to rely on the family trees and extensive character guides at the beginning of the novel (as I did with Hall ), but I was pleasantly surprised to find that I fell back into the world of Henry VIII with ease and a great deal of familiarity. I already got to know everyone. I already knew their history, their alliances, and what skeletons they had hidden in their closets. A lot of Hall is dragged down by exposition but it really seems to have paid off in the end. You see, in the first novel we get the full introduction to Cromwell: his childhood, his years wandering abroad, his time working for Cardinal Wolsey, and his unexpected rise in Henry's favor following Wolsey's downfall. It's information that is vital to Mantel's recreation of Cromwell, but Bodies has the luxury of skimming over all the detail work. It makes for a significantly more focused story. Consider this: while Hall spanned decades, Bodies takes place in a scant nine month period. And what a nine months! Henry, already disillusioned with Anne at the close of Hall , begins to transfer his affections to Jane Seymour, making it necessary to undo a marriage he had moved Heaven and Earth to make possible in the first place. The characterizations of Cromwell, Anne, and Henry are where Mantel's writing shines the brightest for me. Anne's dark, glittery eyes are a descriptive quality that has stayed with me from the first book. But here they are all getting older. Henry is in middle age and desperate for a legitimate heir to the throne. Anne, who maneuvered so seductively into the throne, is losing her guile and her grip more and more. And Cromwell, also in middle age, is becoming so fixated on achieving revenge on those who have wronged him and his beloved Cardinal Wolsey that he is slowly sowing the seeds of his own eventual downfall. \"A queen, and [Anne] calls herself a queen, must live and suffer under the world's eye.\" But it's not just them changing. The entire world is shifting in a new direction--largely because of their actions. Henry's divorce from Katherine of Aragon has scandalized the world. His break from the Catholic church challenged the authority of an institution most people believed unassailable. Boleyn and, especially, Cromwell are eyed with suspicion because of their 'low birth.' Yet they have ruthlessly risen to two of the highest positions in their country. The classical orders aren't just being challenged, they're being ripped asunder. \"Chivalry's day is over. One day soon moss will grow in the tilt yard. The days of the moneylender have arrived, and the days of the swaggering privateer; banker sits down with banker, and kings are their waiting boys.\" The fact that this novel arrives on the heels of the Occupy Wall Street movement makes it all the more timely. We know that Anne's bloody end is approaching, that Henry will have two wives after Jane Seymour, and that Cromwell's own relationship with Henry will come to a bitter end. But watching it all unfold through Mantel's eyes is nothing short of fascinating. She still rambles a bit. At times her prose seems willfully opaque. She is defiantly not an author who spells it all out for the reader; indeed, one can never be quite certain which lines the characters speak are lies and which are true (particularly when it comes to Henry). But isn't that life for you? In the end, finishing Bring Up the Bodies gave me a charge the way Wolf Hall didn't. This one is work that is worth the effort. ...more What sorcery is this? Cromwell plays good cop, bad cop. Surprisingly, he's the good cop. The King wants rid of Anne, so Cromwell finds men who are guilty, just not necessarily guilty as charged. That's about it really. Some professional reviewers have called this 'tauter' than part one, which must be review speak, like saying a house is \"conveniently placed for access to the city centre\", which means smack on the main thoroughfare with juggernauts hurtling past your windows. Taut = no subplots. St What sorcery is this? Cromwell plays good cop, bad cop. Surprisingly, he's the good cop. The King wants rid of Anne, so Cromwell finds men who are guilty, just not necessarily guilty as charged. That's about it really. Some professional reviewers have called this 'tauter' than part one, which must be review speak, like saying a house is \"conveniently placed for access to the city centre\", which means smack on the main thoroughfare with juggernauts hurtling past your windows. Taut = no subplots. Straight. There are also far fewer people, especially women. No, Harry hasn't killed them all off (yet), 'twas the sickness that took Cromwell's wife and two daughters. I wonder (she muses) - is there any way of knowing if women were more likely to get infectious diseases back in the early 16th century? I mean I know childbirth was a killer, but I have this theory that if women were kept at home more, didn't have as much contact as the men who were riding around in all weathers and meeting lots of people, then their immune system wouldn't have been up to much. Anyways: no Wolsey, no women. No-one to make Cromwell look better than the traditional image we have of him. But still a wondrous marvel. Mantel is a sorceress. Bring up part three! ...more Description: Though he battled for seven years to marry her, Henry is disenchanted with Anne Boleyn. She has failed to give him a son and her sharp intelligence and audacious will alienate his old friends and the noble families of England. When the discarded Katherine dies in exile from the court, Anne stands starkly exposed, the focus of gossip and malice. At a word from Henry, Thomas Cromwell is ready to bring her down. Over three terrifying weeks, Anne is ensnared in a web of conspiracy, while Description: Though he battled for seven years to marry her, Henry is disenchanted with Anne Boleyn. She has failed to give him a son and her sharp intelligence and audacious will alienate his old friends and the noble families of England. When the discarded Katherine dies in exile from the court, Anne stands starkly exposed, the focus of gossip and malice. At a word from Henry, Thomas Cromwell is ready to bring her down. Over three terrifying weeks, Anne is ensnared in a web of conspiracy, while the demure Jane Seymour stands waiting her turn for the poisoned wedding ring. But Anne and her powerful family will not yield without a ferocious struggle. Hilary Mantel's \"Bring Up the Bodies\" follows the dramatic trial of the queen and her suitors for adultery and treason. To defeat the Boleyns, Cromwell must ally with his natural enemies, the papist aristocracy. What price will he pay for Anne's head? Opening: His children are falling from the sky. He watches from horseback, acres of England stretching behind him; they drop, gilt-winged, each with a blood-filled gaze. Grace Cromwell hovers in thin air. She is silent when she takes her prey, silent as she glides to his fist. But the sounds she makes then, the rustle of feathers and the creak, the sigh and riffle of pinion, the small cluck-cluck from her throat, these are sounds of recognition, intimate, daughterly, almost disapproving. Her breast is gore-streaked and flesh clings to her claws. It took me two stabs and a TV series to fully appreciate Wolf Hall and that perserverance stood as bedrock for this second book. I breezed through Bring Up the Bodies knowing the history and was pretty au fait with Mantel's style idiosyncrasies. Bring Up the TV series! ...more Hilary Mantel\u2019s Booker-winning Wolf Hall , though fascinating, was a chore to get through \u2013 so it was with some misgivings that I picked up this book, the sequel; I was resigned to getting bored, but too entranced with Tudor England and Henry VIII\u2019s court to leave the story. However, I was pleasantly surprised\u2026 no, that\u2019s too mild a term, I was floored! Bring up the Bodies is one humdinger of a read. While Wolf Hall was ponderous, the sequel is breezy, without losing any of the beauty of the lang Hilary Mantel\u2019s Booker-winning Wolf Hall , though fascinating, was a chore to get through \u2013 so it was with some misgivings that I picked up this book, the sequel; I was resigned to getting bored, but too entranced with Tudor England and Henry VIII\u2019s court to leave the story. However, I was pleasantly surprised\u2026 no, that\u2019s too mild a term, I was floored! Bring up the Bodies is one humdinger of a read. While Wolf Hall was ponderous, the sequel is breezy, without losing any of the beauty of the language. In cricketing parlance, Ms. Mantel is like a test batsman who, having negotiated a treacherous pitch, has got her eye in and is stroking beautifully. Read the full review on my BLOG . ...more In her Author\u2019s Note, Hilary Mantel says: \u201cThis book is of course not about Anne Boleyn or about Henry VIII but about the career of Thomas Cromwell, who is still in need of attention from biographers. Meanwhile, Mr Secretary (Cromwell) remains sleek, plump and densely inaccessible, like a choice plum in a Christmas pie\u2026\u201d For me, Cromwell remains admirable, he had such exemplary hopes for England: one country, one coinage, one set of laws, one church albeit at Henry's bidding, good roads, good cr In her Author\u2019s Note, Hilary Mantel says: \u201cThis book is of course not about Anne Boleyn or about Henry VIII but about the career of Thomas Cromwell, who is still in need of attention from biographers. Meanwhile, Mr Secretary (Cromwell) remains sleek, plump and densely inaccessible, like a choice plum in a Christmas pie\u2026\u201d For me, Cromwell remains admirable, he had such exemplary hopes for England: one country, one coinage, one set of laws, one church albeit at Henry's bidding, good roads, good crops, good trade, good tax laws and care for the poor. He put the English Bible in every church. The events from September 1535 to April 1536 move with astonishing haste and Cromwell is recording them as they happen. Was it the miscarriage of Anne\u2019s next baby, was it the court gossip, was it her constant maligning of his old friends, was it the prospect of the demure Jane Seymour or was it the death of Katherine, which hastened Anne's downfall? Whatever the reason, the thought is finally vocalized by Henry: \"What if there was some impediment to my marriage to Anne?\" You can almost hear the death knell sound for Anne... The next three weeks move very rapidly. Fault must be found and blame proportioned: \u201cWeston because he is reckless, Brereton because he is old in sin, Mark because he is ambitious, Henry Norris because he is familiar, he is close, he has confused his own person with the person of the king; and George Boleyn, not despite being her brother, but because he is her brother.\u201d Regardless of his own personal feelings in the matter, Cromwell seeks to fulfil the task which Henry has set him; present the guilty, not to Henry for he has absented himself, but to the court of England. In those same six months, Thomas More has continued to refuse to sign the oath required of him, even after Cromwell offers him ways out: \"Sign it but don't think it, sign it but don't feel it.\" But More is stubborn to the last and refuses. He finally talks his way into an admission of guilt and has been sent to the scaffold. The order goes up to the Tower: \u201cBring up the bodies\u201d , Mark, Norris, Brereton, Weston and George are brought up for trial, charges read, sentences passed. The next day, Anne faces the court, a plethora of charges is read and she found guilty. A few days later, the executioner steps up to fulfil his task and heads roll. Cromwell is in Lambeth, he has no wish to watch the spectacle. But for Anne, Henry summons an expert executioner from Calais and she faces his well-honed sword; \u201ca swish, a whisper through the air\u201d and Anne \"the Most Happy\u201d is no more. Ten days later, Henry quietly weds the demure and gentle Jane Seymour. The Boleyns are out and the Seymours are in. Cromwell is astute enough to realize that his newfound friends will just as quickly desert him when it suits them. The clock has started to wind down for \u2018Master Secretary\u2019. In a moment of reflection, I feel sorry for Anne Boleyn; she was never caught en flagrante and by today\u2019s laws, her charges may well be considered hearsay. Only Anne herself could tell us the truth and the lady is long dead. While many detractors may saddle Cromwell with Anne\u2019s downfall, read this book and then make up your own mind. Hilary Mantel presents us with a Cromwell sculptured with careful study and diligence. She shows you the man who still mourns his deceased wife and children, still misses The Cardinal Wolsey, becomes father/sponsor to many young men who come to live, learn and thrive in his household. She draws you through this novel at a breakneck speed. While you might have found Wolf Hall hard to follow in parts, this sequel moves like a fast moving river. It is engaging, riveting and all the while thoughtful. You cannot help but think at the novel\u2019s end: \u2018now I know and understand Thomas Cromwell a little better'. Most Highly Recommended 5\u2605 An interesting link titled Thomas Cromwell Controversies: http://www.thetudorswiki.com/page/Tho... ...more Where I got the book: my local library. Now this is where the ratings system gets all screwy. Compared to the run of histfic, Bring Up The Bodies is a 5-star read in terms of quality (I never nitpick about historical accuracy). But compared to my 5-star experience of Wolf Hall , Bring Up The Bodies didn't quite come up to scratch and, although my opinion hovers somewhere around the 4.5 range, being constrained to whole numbers I'm giving it 4 stars to make the distinction. Get it? Oh, never mind. O Where I got the book: my local library. Now this is where the ratings system gets all screwy. Compared to the run of histfic, Bring Up The Bodies is a 5-star read in terms of quality (I never nitpick about historical accuracy). But compared to my 5-star experience of Wolf Hall , Bring Up The Bodies didn't quite come up to scratch and, although my opinion hovers somewhere around the 4.5 range, being constrained to whole numbers I'm giving it 4 stars to make the distinction. Get it? Oh, never mind. On with the review. I thought Bring Up The Bodies started beautifully. The first chapter was masterful, and pulled me right back into Cromwell's head and Henry VIII's court. And then things got a little dry. There wasn't enough of this: \"When Stephen comes into a room, the furnishings shrink from him. Chairs scuttle backwards. Joint-stools flatten themselves like pissing bitches. The woolen Bible figures in the king's tapestries lift their hands to cover their ears.\" or this: \"Anne's lovers are phantom gentlemen, flitting by night with adulterous intent. They come and go by night, unchallenged. They skim over the river like midges, flicker against the dark, their doublets sewn with diamonds. The moon sees them, peering from her hood of bone, and Thames water reflects them, glimmering like fish, like pearls.\" All of those moments where we're in both Cromwell's head and the author's are what I enjoy most. I don't believe for a moment that Cromwell is actually thinking in terms of these literary images, but the glory of literature is that you can take a character's supposed thoughts and pass them through a sort of kaleidoscope of words, so that the author's opinion (history's opinion? I don't know) and Cromwell's form more than the sum of their parts; Stephen Gardiner's scariness, the whole question of whether Anne's lovers were figments of the imagination. It's these flights of imagery that made Wolf Hall transcend the ordinary reading experience for me, and there was a big desert in the middle of Bodies where all we got was dialogue and short, efficient bursts of narrative; well written, indeed, but not exciting. Perhaps it was the subject-matter at this point, because for quite a while Cromwell is caught up in the political maneuvering that leads up to Anne's demise. (view spoiler) [Spoiler: they snicked off her brainbox with a sharp pointy object. (hide spoiler) ] I felt that Mantel got her groove back once that episode was over, the outcome was pretty clear and Cromwell became once more the observer. Could it be that the political stuff in the middle was more fully documented and Mantel felt that she had to cover it, whereas the last third was more open to her imagination? That's just a guess on my part. Anyway, the book has only diminished my Mantel fangirlishness by about 6%, so I'd still recommend this novel. But read Wolf Hall first. A note on the language: definitely less confusing in the pronoun department. I ended up quite liking \"he, Cromwell,\" because it gave me a sense of Cromwell's growing power. Another thought: you can feel Cromwell's star beginning to fall by the last third or so of the book. Or perhaps it's because I know what happens next that I want to shout RUN CROMWELL RUN. It's not going to end well, you know. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more \u201cThe things you think are the disasters in your life are not the disasters really. Almost anything can be turned around: out of every ditch, a path, if you can only see it.\u201d \u2015 Hilary Mantel, Bring Up the Bodies 100 pages in and it is hard to miss that this isn't just a nominal sequel to Wolf Hall , but rather the first book's logical annex. There is no drop-off in complexity. No laxity of language. Again, Mantel manages to shift form, change structure and reinvent her style. She even manages to gi \u201cThe things you think are the disasters in your life are not the disasters really. Almost anything can be turned around: out of every ditch, a path, if you can only see it.\u201d \u2015 Hilary Mantel, Bring Up the Bodies 100 pages in and it is hard to miss that this isn't just a nominal sequel to Wolf Hall , but rather the first book's logical annex. There is no drop-off in complexity. No laxity of language. Again, Mantel manages to shift form, change structure and reinvent her style. She even manages to give the character of Thomas Cromwell more depth and complexity, a feat which seemed near impossible after finishing Wolf Hall. Anyway, Mantel is one of the finest writers of English prose living. Each sentence is crafted like a unique piece in an Italian inlaid music box. She has a purpose for each comma, and makes words seem to dance, fall and recover right off the page. She pulls the history out of the history and has written Tower interrogations so deft and chilling one is left afraid of both language and the law. As readers we watch Cromwell destroy men, overthrow queens and change history with words, paper and a sharp understanding of men's motives. We aren't afraid because Cromwell is a monster, but because he is so heroically human. ...more 4.5 stars It\u2019s a while since I read Wolf Hall, but Mantel does a good job of filling in gaps in my memory. This holds the attention as much as the first one does, but is narrower in focus, covering less than a year. Cromwell is as ruthless and manipulative as ever; but it is fascinating seeing things from his point of view. Being a bit of an old Tudor hack from my undergraduate days these books are a fascinating take on an era I know fairly well. For centuries Cromwell had been dismissed as just 4.5 stars It\u2019s a while since I read Wolf Hall, but Mantel does a good job of filling in gaps in my memory. This holds the attention as much as the first one does, but is narrower in focus, covering less than a year. Cromwell is as ruthless and manipulative as ever; but it is fascinating seeing things from his point of view. Being a bit of an old Tudor hack from my undergraduate days these books are a fascinating take on an era I know fairly well. For centuries Cromwell had been dismissed as just another political hack and it wasn\u2019t until Geoffrey Elton\u2019s revision of him in the 1950s that his significance in driving forward the English Reformation was articulated. Cromwell, it has been argued, was the developer of modern bureaucratic government (he has a good deal to answer for then!). Whilst I am no fan of Elton\u2019s Rankian and empirical view of history, I think he was right about the importance of Cromwell. Mantel\u2019s genius is the way she makes Cromwell understandable, even sympathetic. She fills in the historical gaps in Cromwell\u2019s life and in the historical accounts in an intelligent and believable way. The brutality of daily life and the religious tension is well captured. The prose is wonderful, clever and very funny. She puts some depth into those who surround Cromwell. Henry himself remains a little elusive and unpredictable and Cromwell knows he is always walking on a tightrope dealing with him. It is a fascinating analysis of the use and misuse of power; but most of all a great story, well told. Historical fiction at its best. ...more I didn\u2019t enjoy this as much as I\u2019d hoped to. The writing is often brilliant, with the dialogue lively and apt in revealing the characters, but I came away with a hollow feeling with respect to emotional engagement. Only part of that has to do with the lack of focus on likable characters in the unlikeable times. The time is 1535, and the events concern the role of Thomas Cromwell in the downfall of Anne Boleyn in favor of Jane Seymour as Henry Tudor\u2019s queen. As with the previous removal of Kather I didn\u2019t enjoy this as much as I\u2019d hoped to. The writing is often brilliant, with the dialogue lively and apt in revealing the characters, but I came away with a hollow feeling with respect to emotional engagement. Only part of that has to do with the lack of focus on likable characters in the unlikeable times. The time is 1535, and the events concern the role of Thomas Cromwell in the downfall of Anne Boleyn in favor of Jane Seymour as Henry Tudor\u2019s queen. As with the previous removal of Katherine of Aragorn from the throne in favor of Boleyn, features in Mantel\u2019s \u201cWolf Hall\u201d, there are a lot of nasty power plays and maneuverings that doesn\u2019t favor liking anyone. Cromwell in most ways comes off in Mantel\u2019s portrayal as the most human character in the tale. And that\u2019s saying a lot given the historical outcome of the Queen\u2019s execution and that of a number of formerly favored noblemen accused of being her lovers (and therefore treasonous). His path to becoming the indispensable right hand to the King as Master Secretary from humble origins as a scrappy blacksmith\u2019s son garners sympathy points, as does his bereft status after losing a wife and son to disease. His pragmatic Machiavellian persona keeps him brutally cool and efficient on the outside, belying a more emotional self the reader is privy to. Cromwell\u2019s scope of character and methods are well distilled in this paragraph early in the book: He never spares himself in the king\u2019s service, he knows his worth and merits and makes sure of his reward: offices, perquisites and title deeds, manor houses and farms. He has a way of getting his way, he has a method; he will charm a man or bribe him, coax him or threaten him, he will explain to a man where his true interests lie, and he will introduce the same man to aspects of himself he didn\u2019t know existed. Every day Master Secretary deals with grandees who, if they could, would destroy him with one vindictive swipe, as if he were a fly. Knowing this, he is distinguished by his courtesy, his calmness and his indefatigable attention to England\u2019s business. He is not in the habit of explaining himself. He is not in the habit of discussing his successes. But whenever good fortune has called upon him, he has been there, planted on the threshold, ready to fling open the door to her timid scratch on the wood. In the early part of the book, the King\u2019s lack of a surviving male heir and the impending death of Katherine brings the ambassadors from the courts of France and Spain to Cromwell\u2019s door on the issue of which of Henry\u2019s daughters is to be considered the true Princess, Katherine\u2019s Mary or Anne\u2019s Elizabeth. One of his negotiations makes the King so angry, even Cromwell has fears over his precarious position: Henry is convulsing with rage. \u2018I really believe, Cromwell, that you think you are king, and I am the blacksmith\u2019s boy.\u2019 He will never claim, later, that his heart did not turn over. He is not one to boast of a coolness no reasonable man would possess. Henry could, at any moment, gesture to his guards; he could find himself with cold metal at his ribs, and his day done. But he steps back; he knows his face shows nothing, neither repentance nor regret nor fear. He thinks, you could never be the blacksmith\u2019s boy. Walter would not have had you in his forge. Brawn is not the whole story. In the flames you need a cool head, when sparks are flying to the rafters you must note when they fall on you and knock the fire away with one swat of your hard palm: a man who panics is no use in a shop full of molten metal. When Henry tasks Cromwell to find some way of dumping Boleyn and getting an annulment, he has a chance to become indispensable again. Cromwell confesses to a crony: He says softly, \u201cI think I have been training all my years for this. I have served an apprenticeship to myself.\u201d His whole career has been an education in hypocrisy. He is able to wangle a chain of witness statements and semi-confessions without torture that can serve the purpose. The complete truth is not the overall objective for him: we are not priests. We don\u2019t want their sort of confession. We are lawyers. We want the truth little by little and only those parts of it we can use. Thus, we get a lot of cleverness in Mantel\u2019s the vision of Cromwell as an almost modern political manipulator. Still he didn\u2019t quite gel for me, and my heart rarely felt concerned for him. Likability is not the issue in that; it\u2019s more his lack of gravitas. Shakespeare\u2019s tragedies about royalty are full of characters driven by corruption, avarice, and lust, and I can still often care a lot about their fate, even if it is to see them meet their just or inevitable desserts. Cromwell\u2019s internal monologues and fantasies make him human, but a cool and flip type of human that just doesn\u2019t get under my skin. In the first book, I got tired of being in his mind and wasn\u2019t able to finish. Others obviously felt differently, which is fine by me. I save my favorite line for the last, a response to negative rumors that illustrates both the high and low points of Mantel\u2019s rendering of Cromwell\u2019s humanity for me: \u2018You know young Francis Weston? He that waits on the king? His people are giving out that you\u2019re a Hebrew\u2019 He grunts; he\u2019s heard that one before. \u2018Next time you\u2019re at court\u2019, Thurston advises, \u2018take your cock out and put it on the table and see what he says to that.\u2019 \u2018I do that anyway\u2019, he says. \u2018If the conversation flags.\u2019 ...more Wonderful creation by Hilary Mantel and deserving of all the praise it has received. This is a novel more of action than description, though the action is often in dialogue, both external and internal. Cromwell is in charge, as much as anyone who is not the King or a member of the nobility can be. The inner workings at the various royal courts and Cromwell's now multiple homes are intense and exciting. As the royal times seem about to change, He (Cromwell--better identified in this book) looks t Wonderful creation by Hilary Mantel and deserving of all the praise it has received. This is a novel more of action than description, though the action is often in dialogue, both external and internal. Cromwell is in charge, as much as anyone who is not the King or a member of the nobility can be. The inner workings at the various royal courts and Cromwell's now multiple homes are intense and exciting. As the royal times seem about to change, He (Cromwell--better identified in this book) looks to a changing future. \"But Cremuel remains a nobody. The King gives him titles that no one abroad understands, and jobs that no one at home can do. He multiplies offices, duties pile on him: plain Master Cromwell goes out at morning, plain Master Cromwell comes in at night. Henry had offered him the Lord Chancellor's post; no don't disturb Lord Audley, he had said...Audley in fact does as he is told....You cannot, surely, be Lord Chancellor and Master Secretary? And he will not give up that post. It doesn't matter if it gives him a lesser status. It doesn't matter if the French don't comprehend. Let them judge by results....chivalry's day is over. One day soon moss will grow in the tilt yard. the days of the moneylender have arrived, and the days of the swaggering privateer; banker sits down with banker, and kings are their waiting boys.\" (p. 141) Mantel's Cromwell (sometimes also named Cremuel) is a complicated man, constantly thinking four or five --or a dozen--steps ahead, to protect himself, his family and his King. It appears to me in that order. I can hardly wait for the third installment of this series. No stronger 5 than this. Addendum: Mantel provides an interesting postscript on her thoughts about Cromwell. ...more This is the sequel to Wolf Hall , which I read shortly after it won the Man Booker Prize. The fact that I thought I would be reading a book featuring Cavaliers and Roundheads indicates that (a) I hadn\u2019t been paying much attention to book reviews and (b) I don\u2019t really know much about the Tudors. Luckily it only took a paragraph for me to realise the novel was about Henry VIII\u2019s Cromwell and not the other one, or else I would have been a very confused reader. In terms of the history, I had to rely This is the sequel to Wolf Hall , which I read shortly after it won the Man Booker Prize. The fact that I thought I would be reading a book featuring Cavaliers and Roundheads indicates that (a) I hadn\u2019t been paying much attention to book reviews and (b) I don\u2019t really know much about the Tudors. Luckily it only took a paragraph for me to realise the novel was about Henry VIII\u2019s Cromwell and not the other one, or else I would have been a very confused reader. In terms of the history, I had to rely on knowledge I'd acquired many years previously, when I had a teenage passion for the television series The Six Wives of Henry VIII and Elizabeth R , saw the film Anne of a Thousand Days and read a biography of Elizabeth I and a few Jean Plaidy novels. My interest in the Tudor period passed with my teens, never to return. However, my relative lack of knowledge of Tudor history was no impediment to enjoying either Wolf Hall or this novel. In general, I prefer to read non-fiction or biography rather than fiction which deals with real historical figures. This is because I like to be told the facts and see references to primary sources in footnotes, rather than have historical information mediated through the imagination of a novelist. However, Mantel converts me to historical fiction and I neither know nor care whether the history she tells is accurate. Mantel\u2019s writing is so good that I'm prepared to believe her version of Cromwell and her version of the historical events which this novel relates. While Wolf Hall tells the story of Cromwell\u2019s background and rise to power, this novel tells the story of Cromwell\u2019s role in the fall of Anne Boleyn. It's shorter than Wolf Hall and covers a much shorter time period: months to Wolf Hall \u2019s decades. Stylistically, it\u2019s similar to Wolf Hall . This is probably the time to mention Mantel\u2019s use of the third person singular pronoun: that is, the use of \u201che\u201d to refer to Cromwell. Mantel has been criticised for this and the device is almost inevitably mentioned in reviews of Wolf Hall . When I was reading that book, once I understood that when Mantel writes \u201che\u201d, she almost always means Cromwell (and it is fairly obvious), I had no difficulty understanding to whom she was referring. In this novel, Mantel provides clarification from time to time by using the phrase \u201che, Cromwell\u201d. In that context, the \u201che\u201d may be unnecessary, but it keeps the style consistent. For me, the use of \u201che\u201d rather than \u201cCromwell\u201d creates an intimacy with the central character. The reader sees the narrative from Cromwell\u2019s point of view and is able to really get inside his head. Mantel\u2019s version of Cromwell is masterly. She contrasts the devoted family man who is loved and respected by the members of his household with the public figure, a consummate politician who takes whatever steps are necessary to serve his political master, all the while keeping his own interests firmly in sight. He is intelligent, cynical, funny and at times frightening. Mantel manages to make a man who has been portrayed as a one-note villain into an utterly fascinating and complex character. One of the things I love most about this novel and Wolf Hall is that Mantel has not just written novels about the life of a long-dead historical figure. One of the Man Booker judges referred to Wolf Hall as a contemporary novel \"which happens to be set in the 16th century\u201d. The same can be said of Bring Up the Bodies . This is a novel about power, about the dichotomy between the public and the private, about the price paid for political success and the cost of political failure. It is compelling, entertaining, thought-provoking and moving. I loved reading this novel and right now I'd be prepared to read Hilary Mantel\u2019s shopping list. It\u2019s going to be a long wait until the third novel in the trilogy is published. In the meantime, I plan to read more of Mantel\u2019s work. I\u2019ve loved sharing the experience of reading Bring Up the Bodies with my friend Jemidar. ...more This second volume in Mantel\u2019s proposed trilogy has fear and trepidation woven into the very sentences. Cromwell has moments of prescience when he can see that his tendency to go \u201call in\u201d on support for the people he works for will bring him grief and destruction in the end. But, you know, I like him better for it. The man who could rewrite Machiavelli and teach him a thing or two has, at heart, a heart. In Mantel\u2019s novel I often got the notion that Cromwell directed the King\u2019s attention towards This second volume in Mantel\u2019s proposed trilogy has fear and trepidation woven into the very sentences. Cromwell has moments of prescience when he can see that his tendency to go \u201call in\u201d on support for the people he works for will bring him grief and destruction in the end. But, you know, I like him better for it. The man who could rewrite Machiavelli and teach him a thing or two has, at heart, a heart. In Mantel\u2019s novel I often got the notion that Cromwell directed the King\u2019s attention towards Jane Seymour. That Cromwell mistrusted Anne Boleyn, I don\u2019t think there can be any doubt, though he supported her until her jealousies and scheming became too much for even Cromwell to stomach. It doesn\u2019t make any sense for Cromwell to put Henry and Jane together unless he suspected all along Anne\u2019s tendency to plot would be her epitaph. In the BBC production starring Mark Rylance, however, we get a slightly different interpretation: in Rylance\u2019s performance we see Cromwell\u2019s surprise, uncertainty, fear, and a growing knowledge that Henry would throw off the yoke of marriage once again, and entreat Cromwell to \"fix\" a divorce for him. Cromwell himself had always been attracted [either sexually or simply as a father figure] to the young, silent Jane Seymour and notes with consternation how Jane drew the King\u2019s eye. With his knowledge of the King, he surely fears for anyone coming unprepared into the King's orbit. Either interpretation deepens the character of Cromwell, though one is far more scheming and less attractive. I think Mantel meant us to recognize the humanity in Cromwell, though she has him serving up the coldest dish of long-held revenge we have perhaps ever seen. Cromwell hates the young Master of the Privy Chamber Harry Norris for his role in a play which humiliated the memory of Cromwell\u2019s beloved Cardinal Wolsey. Cromwell bides his time but eventually finds a way to unseat Norris. The title, Bring Up the Bodies , refers to the trial of five court regulars who were thought to be intimates of Anne Boleyn: Harry Norris, George Boleyn, Mark Smeaton, William Brereton, and Francis Weston. There is still an open question as to whether the queen slept with them while she reigned. Hard as it is to believe, it may not be out of place today, which is why we even entertain the notion. Anne Boleyn was married to King Henry only three years. It seemed to have been a trial for both of them. Mantel did meticulous research so we can assume the portrait of a petulant monarch who does not deal well with failure or challenges has basis in fact. Certainly looking at his decisions alone might lead one to think in that direction. But it is Cromwell that is the central character in this drama, and Mantel does not let our eyes or thoughts stray far from the man. Mantel's chapter headings toll the years, and if the reader already knows Cromwell lived only four years beyond the death of Anne Boleyn, each chapter heading rings sonorous, ominous. At the end of this novel we are treated to how his contemporaries view him, and it is not a flattering portrait. They wonder Cromwell won\u2019t go after the King next. We\u2019d like to be able to defend him, but know he is simply doing what is necessary for himself\u2014he has an unquenchable appetite for the hand to hand combat that is his life. I look forward to how Mantel deals with the end of Cromwell and the story she has made her own. ...more Here is the genius of Hilary Mantel: she can take a story about the rise and fall of Anne Boleyn, a subject that I have been reading about since I was twelve, and make it new and fascinating to me. She does this mainly by focusing her story through the eyes of, not Anne or Mary Boleyn (as so many authors choose to do) but through the eyes of a relatively unknown and certainly mysterious person: Thomas Cromwell, Master Secretary and grand puppetmaster of all Tudor drama. Cromwell is, to this day, Here is the genius of Hilary Mantel: she can take a story about the rise and fall of Anne Boleyn, a subject that I have been reading about since I was twelve, and make it new and fascinating to me. She does this mainly by focusing her story through the eyes of, not Anne or Mary Boleyn (as so many authors choose to do) but through the eyes of a relatively unknown and certainly mysterious person: Thomas Cromwell, Master Secretary and grand puppetmaster of all Tudor drama. Cromwell is, to this day, an enigmatic character, and most of his motivations and machinations remain a mystery to us. Which is what makes Mantel's Cromwell trilogy so great: she's showing us this common, well-known story and making it fresh by writing about it through a new perspective while also providing her own solutions to questions about Cromwell. Do I make it sound dull? Because it is the opposite of dull. Mantel's writing is funny (\"If someone said to Lady Rochford, 'It's raining,' she would turn it into a conspiracy; as she passed the news on, she would make it sound somehow indecent, unlikely, but sadly true.\") and smart : she doesn't spoon-feed you anything, and expects you to keep up with her characters' insinuations and hinted-at secrets, without explicitly spelling them out for you. And there's the story itself, which is full of fantastic characters and intrigue and gossip and beautiful, evocative, near-poetic lines like this: \"You can be merry with the king, you can share a joke with him. But as Thomas More used to say, it's like sporting with a tamed lion. You tousle its mane and pull its ears, but all the time you're thinking, those claws, those claws, those claws.\" (a line which is, incidentally, one of the most spot-on and perfect descriptions of Henry VIII's character I've ever read) And the man at the center of it all, Thomas Cromwell, is endlessly fascinating. When he investigates Anne Boleyn's suspected infidelities and arranges her trial, does he think she's actually guilty? No. Or, more accurately, Cromwell knows that Anne is dangerous and plotting his downfall, and makes a move to eliminate her before she can move against him. The trial is just a handy way for Cromwell to get rid of his enemies in one fell swoop - in Mantel's version of events, the men put on trial for having an affair with Anne Boleyn are the same men who celebrated when Cromwell's mentor, Cardinal Wolsey, was executed in the previous novel. It's a cruel move, but a shrewd one. As Cromwell says in his narration: \"He needs guilty men. So he has found men who are guilty. Though perhaps not guilty as charged.\" It would be easy for an author to portray Cromwell as the villain, but Mantel reminds us that he is only acting on Henry's orders. It's Henry who wants to get rid of Anne Boleyn, Henry who suggests that she might have used witchcraft against him, and Henry who is the engineer of all this injustice. In Wolf Hall , Wolsey's death taught Cromwell what happens when you don't do what the king wants; in Bring Up the Bodies , we see him put that lesson into practice (which will make the third book, which I assume will be about Cromwell's death after the Anne of Cleves disaster, all the more fascinating). Mantel's entire take on the Anne Boleyn trial is fantastic and, even if it's not all true, utterly believable (especially after reading The Lady in the Tower , Alison Weir's awesome nonfiction book about the fall of Anne Boleyn) - because the court documents from Anne's trial have been lost, Mantel skips over the trial scenes very quickly, which makes them all the more heartbreaking, because it only emphasizes how the trial was only for show anyway. Her version of Anne's execution (spoiler alert?) is heartwrenching and horrifying and made me short of breath, and I loved her take on some of Anne's strange behavior post-arrest. When Anne Boleyn was brought to the Tower, she asked if she would be put in a dungeon, and was told that she would be staying in her own royal rooms at the Tower. On hearing this, Anne Boleyn reportedly replied, \"It is too good for me. Jesus have mercy on me.\" Historians are confounded by this: was Anne admitting her guilt, or did it have another meaning? Here's Mantel's (speaking as Cromwell) take on it: \"He believes he understands Anne, as Wriothesley does not. When she said the queen's lodgings were too good for her, she did not mean to admit her guilt, but to say this truth: I am not worthy, and I am not worthy because I have failed. One thing she set out to do, this side of salvation: get Henry and keep him. She has lost him to Jane Seymour, and no court of law will judge her more harshly than she has judged herself. Since Henry rode away from her yesterday, she has been an imposter, like a child or a court fool, dressed in the costumes of a queen and now ordered to live in the queen's rooms. She knows that adultery is a sin and treason is a crime, but to be on the losing side is a greater fault that these.\" I can't wait for the third book in this series. If the first two are any indication, it's going to be incredible. Well done, Ms. Mantel. Well done indeed. ...more Methinks this would have done better in my opinion had I gone back to the beginning soon before plunging into this continuation. Then again, perhaps not. Midway points are inherently weak, especially in an expected trilogy where the first has the beginning flush and the third has the ending triumph, so a rereading of Wolf Hall may have led to a compare and contrast with this latter day sequel coming out last. Also, there are so many other unread tomes calling my name. Also, I'm lazy. There you h Methinks this would have done better in my opinion had I gone back to the beginning soon before plunging into this continuation. Then again, perhaps not. Midway points are inherently weak, especially in an expected trilogy where the first has the beginning flush and the third has the ending triumph, so a rereading of Wolf Hall may have led to a compare and contrast with this latter day sequel coming out last. Also, there are so many other unread tomes calling my name. Also, I'm lazy. There you have it. Thus, during the course of this I relied on what repetitions Mantel would grant me in terms of what went on in the first, as my brain has no interest in retaining footnotes of what went where, when happened this, why were they killed, etc. Lucky for me, she delivered, so I was well content in my decision to forge ahead two and a half years after the fact with nary a conscientious reviewing of previous material. However, what stuck with me through the intervening days and pieces of literature was that singular feeling of awe at how this work of historical fiction had been accomplished, this Wolf Hall that wrapped itself around the reader and sunk its tendrils deep into the bones. You would've thought Cromwell a past reincarnation of Mantel, so effortlessly on pulse point the writing was. That feeling was still there here, but to a lesser extent, as the years of reading Memoirs of Hadrian and the like have done their work on me and opened my eyes to the tricks of the trade of fictional enshrouding. Don't misunderstand, this is still a masterwork of historical fiction that questions the boundaries of its genre and puts the majority of its fellow denizens to shame, but there was a little too much wittily entitled closure for my tastes. I called Cromwell a 'BAMF' in my review of WH, and here that epithetic slang of a title still holds, but it is tiring when the main character has the drop on every thing and one and soul and proclaims it on every page. True, there is his tragic history to account for, (view spoiler) [the death of his wife and two daughters hitting especially hard every so often (hide spoiler) ] but when everything is said and done, his heart rate remains at a steady self-assured rate for far too long to merit my completely enraptured interest. As for the rest of the characters and events and plot and whatnot, it's all Cromwell thanks to the point of view, is it not? You see everyone else succumb to his machinations, whether in the jocund pleasings of the king or the crying and quaking of everyone else, you get bits and pieces of Cromwell's life and times whenever the memory strikes during the appropriate instigating of recollection, but very little of that receives an equally stirring reaction within the soul of the ubiquitous he. Perhaps it was the shortened time span of the sequel (nine months compared to seven years), the myriad characters (I've never had a head for names), or the sheer quantity of speedy manipulation required of a third person narrator (a wealth of information and yet the veil remains) that rendered each climax rote and file and standardized expectations. There is no mystery as to what is going to occur, history being what it is, but the uniformity of Cromwell's capability in contrast to everyone accepting him as such and shortchanging themselves accordingly grew a little stale after the umpteenth time of pride and fall and repeat. Once I was sad to think on Cromwell's inevitable downfall, but now, the novelty of watching the walls close in around him without a chance of his usual escape is intriguing. Sadistic, but true. In short, while my childhood interest in the Tudors was satisfied, my standards for historical fiction, and indeed the potential of fiction in general, were not. However, I am still very much looking forward to the final concluding work. And, I will reiterate to any nonbelievers in the realm of historical fiction out there: this is the trilogy for you. P.S. Also Memoirs of Hadrian . In case you weren't taking notes. ...more I\u2019ve seldom seen anything similar to the approving furor over Hilary Mantel\u2019s WOLF HALL, and if you had told me that a novel about Thomas Cromwell \u2013 most famously seen as a sleazy weasel attacking the saintly Thomas More in the movie A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS \u2013 could be fascinating and sexy, I would not have believed you. Mantel\u2019s writing, however, was utterly perfect as she twisted expectations by showing More as the intolerant, egocentric, venomous 16th-century anti-hero and Cromwell as a man who, I\u2019ve seldom seen anything similar to the approving furor over Hilary Mantel\u2019s WOLF HALL, and if you had told me that a novel about Thomas Cromwell \u2013 most famously seen as a sleazy weasel attacking the saintly Thomas More in the movie A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS \u2013 could be fascinating and sexy, I would not have believed you. Mantel\u2019s writing, however, was utterly perfect as she twisted expectations by showing More as the intolerant, egocentric, venomous 16th-century anti-hero and Cromwell as a man who, in spite of battering, had become generous, loving, wise, reforming, amusing \u2013 and vengeful (the vengeful doesn\u2019t really pop up until almost the end of WOLF HALL but it\u2019s definitely a trail worth following). So where do you go with one of the decade\u2019s most approved books, winner of the Man Booker Prize and other prestigious awards, which was so beautifully written that, while waiting for Part 2, many of us read it multiple times just to savor the ironies, the contrasts? You go on, as life does, and do Part 2. BRING UP THE BODIES gives Cromwell an altogether tougher task. Having become rich and elevated by serving Henry VIII in any way he desires save sexually, Cromwell now has to enter Henry\u2019s bed to get rid of an inconvenient woman. Anne Boleyn has failed to give the King what she promised and that, in Tudor England, can be fatal. The current Queen, from the first page of the book, has a metaphysical and literal sword hanging over her head. After the most notorious romance in western history, a stitched-up divorce ripping England from Holy Mother Church, all she can provide to the heir-hungry Henry is \u2013 another squalling daughter and a series of miscarriages. Just like her predecessor, the sorrowful Katherine of Aragon. So \u2013 Cromwell, the ultimate Fixer for his Machiavellian monarch, is going to have to fix this one as well. At what cost? As the book progressed, an image from the first page kept recurring to me \u2013 the falcon, stooping to the kill, bloodied and remorseless. Circa regna tonat , indeed. This story has been told and told, and the same magic that infused Wolf Hall is approaching this catastrophic event with the same surprises, beautiful writing, subtle penetration, and black irony. Somehow, it seems like an entirely new story, one in which you know there will be bodies but still, for a time, it seems like this doom-laden tale could be rewritten, that it will not end in a stage full of corpses. There is magic in Mantel\u2019s prose: \"Katherine was not without sin, but now her sins are taken off her. They are all heaped upon Anne; the shadow who flits after her, the woman draped in night. The old queen dwells in the radiance of God's presence, her dead infants swaddled at her feet, but Anne dwells in this sinful world below, stewed in her childbed sweat, in her soiled sheet. But her hands and feet are cold and her heart is like a stone.\" I waited two years for this book and it was worth the wait. If Mantel can sustain this dark, haunted, illuminating, ironic time-travel for a third book, I will be astounded \u2013 but perhaps, not surprised. ...more I read the last of this so slowly, slowly. Did not want it to end. I liked Wolf Hall , but I felt that that book was just practice for this one. Hilary Mantel was just getting warmed up. Bring Up the Bodies is not a history, or even a re-telling of history, but a reimagining, by a writer with a remarkable imagination. Her ability to offer us one possible version of a well-known story, told through the mind and thoughts of Thomas Cromwell in a way we\u2019ve never considered him, has created something I read the last of this so slowly, slowly. Did not want it to end. I liked Wolf Hall , but I felt that that book was just practice for this one. Hilary Mantel was just getting warmed up. Bring Up the Bodies is not a history, or even a re-telling of history, but a reimagining, by a writer with a remarkable imagination. Her ability to offer us one possible version of a well-known story, told through the mind and thoughts of Thomas Cromwell in a way we\u2019ve never considered him, has created something unique. The style is unlike anything I\u2019ve read before, and its effectiveness improved from Wolf Hall to BUTB , or else my falling into its rhythms improved the experience. Mantel\u2019s Cromwell thinks in metaphors and similes and personifications, dense and rich, with often dazzling imagery that reflects the mood of the moment. The imagery becomes a sort of lens through which the events take on an emotive quality that informs the character and the story. Anne was wearing that day, rose pink and dove grey. The colours should have had a fresh maidenly charm; but all he could think of were stretched innards, umbles and tripes, grey-pink intestines looped out of a living body; he had a second batch of recalcitrant friars to be dispatched to Tyburn, to be slit up and gralloched by the hangman. They were traitors and deserved the death, but it is a death exceeding most in cruelty. The pearls around her long neck looked to him like little beads of fat, and as she argued she would reach up and tug them; he kept his eyes on her fingertips, nails flashing like tiny knives. This technique also, to me, often gives Cromwell\u2019s consciousness a sort of ethereal quality, a link to a timelessness that is at odds with the narrative\u2019s chronicling of the day-to-day, and juxtaposes the politics, the manipulations, the scheming, with an almost but not quite buried awareness of things with truer meaning. But regardless of the intimacy we acquire with TC\u2019s frame of mind, as he rises in power and dedication to serving the King\u2019s will and whim at any cost, his ruthlessness and rationalizations illuminate the lack of a moral center that is hard to ignore. He seems to know what he has become, but it does not bother him. He is interested in truth, but only selected truths, \u201conly truth he can use,\u201d as he freely admits. What is the nature of the border between truth and lies? It is permeable and blurred because it is planted thick with rumour, confabulation, misunderstandings and twisted tales. Truth can break the gates down, truth can howl in the street; unless truth is pleasing, personable and easy to like, she is condemned to stay whimpering at the back door. To this former ruffian and abused child, power is power, however it is acquired, and power is good. Despite mixed feelings about the protagonist, the reading experience is a great one for the immersion it allows, enabling us to enter this world and this head through a portal of beautiful, vibrant language, skillfully, artfully wrought. ...more It\u2019s year 1535.England.Henry VIII is a king.He has attained his goal ,divorced from Catherine of Aragon and married Anne Boleyn,at the same time separating England from Rome.He\u2019s a strong man in his mid forties.But \u2026. There are always some buts.Henry is only human.He\u2019s tired,getting old , getting fat.But the worst of it ,he\u2019s disappointed.Anne ,for which he made so many sacrifices for ,has failed. She hasn\u2019t given him a son.Henry still hasn\u2019t a son and England haven\u2019t a heir to the throne. Spain It\u2019s year 1535.England.Henry VIII is a king.He has attained his goal ,divorced from Catherine of Aragon and married Anne Boleyn,at the same time separating England from Rome.He\u2019s a strong man in his mid forties.But \u2026. There are always some buts.Henry is only human.He\u2019s tired,getting old , getting fat.But the worst of it ,he\u2019s disappointed.Anne ,for which he made so many sacrifices for ,has failed. She hasn\u2019t given him a son.Henry still hasn\u2019t a son and England haven\u2019t a heir to the throne. Spain and France seems to waiting only to seize their chance and attack England ,Pope has threatened throwing an excommunication, people are in danger of hunger .Yes ,Henry\u2019s in trouble and doesn\u2019t like it.We are accustomed to the picture of Henry as a drunker and lecher. Meanwhile Henry in Mantel\u2019s novel is a real man ,flesh and blood ,loving life,feasts, hunting, wants still be in love \u2013 agreed , rather dangerous caprice for the kings .But he\u2019s a only human ,isn\u2019t it ?Unpredictable, being obsessively in love with Anne ,ordered to move heaven and earth ,to bend all the rules or break them if necessary to annul his first marriage.He needed a specialist for it .In fact he needed Cromwell ,Thomas Cromwell. Well, Cromwell , a man from lower classes of society, pragmatic to the core,clever and cunning.Having spend many years abroad has discerned provinciality of England ,sees the necessity of reforms .He appears to has not any moral problems with unethical acting ,fabricated evidences.Had led to divorce Henry with Catherine , has fulfilling king\u2019s desires and arranging a meeting with Jane Seymour.He\u2019s a right man ,seems to believe that the end justifies the means, seems to say \u201c give me a man , and I'll find a law for him \u201c , deftly dodging between one fraction and another on king\u2019s court. What\u2019s more,he is patient and unforgiving,has known revenge is a dish best served cold.It\u2019s fascinating to see how Cromwell implements his plans and for good measure ,as though by the way destroying all who had a hand in downfall of cardinal Wolsey,his mentor.Did Cromwell derive a satisfaction from it ?Probably yes ,and I can\u2019t blame him for it.For family and workers he\u2019s really devoted and helpful.His house at Austin Friars reminds me,don\u2019t laugh at me,house of Don Vito Corleone. So,he made it again,once more outsmarted his political opponents,at one go got rid of Anne Boleyn and his enemies.But as ones say he who fights with the sword,will die by the sword.Is he aware of it? O dear me,we all know that history.We know how it ends but just can\u2019t put that book down.Hilary ,Thomas Cromwell couldn't wish for a better biographer. ...more Too many of my friends here on GR and elsewhere have not yet read this, but are planning to, so I won't do much of a review - at least not yet. But I have to say, the writing in this is even better than in Wolf Hall . Mantel's metaphors and similes are beyond apt, cutting and character-revealing and entirely original; when she is lyrical, her prose positively takes flight although she has a steady, controlled hand on it; her dialogue is electric. Her plotting, her pace, her tone -- every single a Too many of my friends here on GR and elsewhere have not yet read this, but are planning to, so I won't do much of a review - at least not yet. But I have to say, the writing in this is even better than in Wolf Hall . Mantel's metaphors and similes are beyond apt, cutting and character-revealing and entirely original; when she is lyrical, her prose positively takes flight although she has a steady, controlled hand on it; her dialogue is electric. Her plotting, her pace, her tone -- every single aspect of this is impeccable. I won't quote anything, because you have to read it and have the thing unfurl before you page by page. So dark - so dark, and cynical, and sad. Here is Cromwell, whom we all admired in Wolf Hall, carrying out his duty to King Henry, and working his own agenda. In Wolf Hall, Mantel shows us a man with a vision, admirable audacity, and an even-tempered fairness whose opportunism was used in the service of higher goals. Here, she strips off our rose-coloured glasses and shows Cromwell as the amoral, vengeful and cruel politician he is. Also, as he is painfully self-aware, a doomed one. And here is King Henry, as capriciously murderous as it's possible to be. And here is the enigmatic cipher Anne Boleyn -- I don't think it's too far a stretch to infer that Mantel means to set her up as a feminist icon. Well, that's enough - too much. Just read it and find out. ...more", "Title": "Bring Up the Bodies"},
