{"Comments": "I sat down at my computer this morning and tried to think of something interesting to say about my reading experience of <+++>The Summoning</+++>. It seems though, that all of my creative faculties have been sucked away since I spent eighty percent of this book imagining what the story COULD have been. The story is like the little engine that could. It has the potential,<---M> it's chugging away</---M>, it's working hard. Only as it turns out it's The Little Engine That Could Have Been Something interesting. The first pa I sat down at my computer this morning and tried to think of something interesting to say about my reading experience of <+++>The Summoning</+++>. It seems though, that all of my creative faculties have been sucked away since I spent eighty percent of this book imagining what the story COULD have been. The story is like the little engine that could. It has the potential, it's chugging away, it's working hard. Only as it turns out it's The Little Engine That Could Have Been Something interesting. The first part of The Summoning was great. It was creepy with freaky ghosts and our protagonist <---C>Chloe Saunders</---C> being put in a Group Home for disturbed children. That's the first eighty or so pages and then the story abruptly stops there. The ghosts, the spooky atmosphere and all that doesn't show up very much from then on. There's a few instances but they're no longer scary and frankly the focus of the story is on the Group Home from then on, which I found really frustrating and annoying. There's even these tantalizing hints that there's a supernatural community out there somewhere that Chloe could escape to. Yet do we get to see it? No. I doubt there could have been a more effective way of annoying me.<---F> This book was the biggest tease</---F>. Everything it seemed to promise was just smoke and mirrors behind what it really provided. What it really provided wasn't at all great. Chloe is not a great character. Armstrong seems unable to decide what kind of person Chloe is. Most of the time she is docile and a bit of a push over. She's a self prescribed rich brat. She never puts up a fight with anyone - oh of course EXCEPT for the people who could help her. That's right. The big intimidating guy with a violent history is the perfect person to practice your bravado on. I know she's only supposed to be fourteen but she's just a non event. There's nothing interesting about her. She spends most of the story just annoying me with her patheticness. The other characters are just boring. I had no interest in any of them. I kept waiting for something interesting to happen - someone interesting to come along but they never did. It was agonizingly painful and disappointing! Warning Spoilers below: What the hell? I have never been so disappointed in the ending of a book my life! She has this great escape from the Group Home that we've been forced to suffer through for pretty much the entire book, only to end up in yet another asylum? I have no interest in reading on. I've already read Armstrong's Stolen and the asylum in that was boring enough. Not interested in going through it again! And the \"big reveal\" at the end? Okay, sit around kiddies, it's time for a plot lesson from Mrs. Kennedy. Gather in close, okay? For all of you writing a story or novel, do not, and I repeat, do not make the \"big reveal\" at the end of your story so painfully obvious from a quarter in, okay? The Group Home is evil? Dang, I didn't figure that out two hundred pages ago! Stop, I never saw THAT coming! *Rolls eyes* Oh no! Who are we to believe in now that it turns out that the Group Home is evil? The very foundation of our world has been turned upside down! (Okay, I just woke up so my sarcasm o'meter is on full throttle right now.) Aunt Lauren made absolutely no freakin' sense, by the way. I feel like it was flung in there at the last moment as a shock and awe tactic. It wasn't shocking, it wasn't awing... it was just stupid. So, over all, I was quite underwhelmed with this book and I have absolutely no intention of reading the others. I'll stick with Armstrong's adult fiction from now on like Tatiana told me I should. ...more I thought this book was pretty good. I thought the blurb sounded good when it mentioned Chloe seeing ghosts! I mean the first ghost she saw as a child would have freaked me clean out!! Later on Chloe is 15 and in high school. She has a breakdown at school, or so they think, really she just saw a ghost that keeps melting his skin and looking all creepy! But this book is not what it seems at all! Poor Chloe finally gets sent to the Lyle House for \"special kids\". She has no idea. No one would say w I thought this book was pretty good. I thought the blurb sounded good when it mentioned Chloe seeing ghosts! I mean the first ghost she saw as a child would have freaked me clean out!! Later on Chloe is 15 and in high school. She has a breakdown at school, or so they think, really she just saw a ghost that keeps melting his skin and looking all creepy! But this book is not what it seems at all! Poor Chloe finally gets sent to the Lyle House for \"special kids\". She has no idea. No one would say what was wrong with me. They had me talk to a bunch of doctors and they ran some tests, and I could tell they had a good idea what was wrong and just wouldn't say it. That meant it was bad. This wasn't the first time I'd seen people who weren't really there. That's what Aunt Lauren had wanted to talk to me about after school. When I'd mentioned the dream, she'd remembered how I used to talk about people in our old basement. My parents figured it was my creative version of make-believe friends, inventing a whole cast of characters. Then those friends started terrifying me, so much that we'd moved. There are a small cast of characters at the Lyle House. Derek, Simon, Tori, Rae, etc. Some of them have abilities like Chloe and some of them finally inform her of what she truly is and that they (the supernaturals) are in danger. If your looking for a young adult, somewhat creepy book then you should pick this one up. I'm holding myself back from spoilers =) And I really want to continue on with the series to see what happens with these \"special\" kids. There are bad people out there that want to do them harm! MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more This book was nearly impossible to put down and I have no doubt that the menacing allure of the setting and plot hindered my ability to do so. There were several compelling plot points going on in this chilling tome, but somehow they not only found a way to co-exist, they actually enhanced one another. The idea of necromancers alone was an eerily intriguing concept but to then confound it with a mental institution setting was sheer sinister brilliance. As if it weren\u2019t creepy enough for the hero This book was nearly impossible to put down and I have no doubt that the menacing allure of the setting and plot hindered my ability to do so. There were several compelling plot points going on in this chilling tome, but somehow they not only found a way to co-exist, they actually enhanced one another. The idea of necromancers alone was an eerily intriguing concept but to then confound it with a mental institution setting was sheer sinister brilliance. As if it weren\u2019t creepy enough for the heroine to see ghosts, she is then locked up in a home for mentaly disturbed teens. That is evil genius on the author\u2019s part, and I ate it up! I had so many conflicting emotions while reading this book, though suspicion and fear ruled more often than not. Yet despite my constant suspicion of nearly everyone, I was still floored by the twist. I knew that Rae\u2019s idea was unwise, but I had no idea how unwise. To this I say, \u201cWell played <---A>Kelley Armstrong</---A>.\u201d And speaking of being played, I feel as though I should be angry that I find myself lusting after a character with an obvious attitude problem who has been plagued with a \u201cpuberty smack down.\u201d Nevertheless, Derek shines and I am looking forward to more of his keen observations and snide remarks. In summary, The Summoning is a freakishly entrancing read with a brilliant plot, menacing setting, and intriguing character. I'm excited to see how it all ends. ...more Reading this book made me clench my jaw so much it's still hurting several hours later. Although the story is not a standalone, it really left me with a bone chilling feeling and I truly can't wait for the next book in the series. Chloe's a young girl struggling with her new found power, Lyle House and her housemates, the setting itself is filled with teenage hormones and jealousy. It's filled with mysteries and no one seems to be what they appear,this is especially true for her housemates. We jo Reading this book made me clench my jaw so much it's still hurting several hours later. Although the story is not a standalone, it really left me with a bone chilling feeling and I truly can't wait for the next book in the series. Chloe's a young girl struggling with her new found power, Lyle House and her housemates, the setting itself is filled with teenage hormones and jealousy. It's filled with mysteries and no one seems to be what they appear,this is especially true for her housemates. We join Chloe as she uncovers the secrets of Lyle House as well as a few secrets belonging to her housemates. I read this book in one sitting because it sucked me in and left me whimpering for more at the end. It really is an amazing book and I truly recommend it, especially if you're read books such as Tithe by Holly Black , City of Bones by Cassandra Clare , Vampire Academy by Rachelle Mead or Wicked Lovely by Melissa Marr . It may also appeal to readers who've enjoyed the Twilight series although this book is a bit tougher and probably not suited for younger readers. (Although that's a decision the parent's have to make I guess) It will most likely also appears to fan of horror, even if the horror-element is less in-your-face in The Summoning than it is in No Humans Involved . ...more I think I\u2019m one of the last people to read this! I\u2019ve heard nothing but how good this novel is, and that I must read it ASAP. When I received a copy of The Awakening, the next novel, I knew that I needed to read The Summoning, right away. (I\u2019m almost glad I waited to read it, so I could start The Awakening right away! What an ending!) This book is everything I was hoping for and more! I\u2019ve never read Armstrong before, I really want to read her adult fantasy series, but I just haven\u2019t had a chance I think I\u2019m one of the last people to read this! I\u2019ve heard nothing but how good this novel is, and that I must read it ASAP. When I received a copy of The Awakening, the next novel, I knew that I needed to read The Summoning, right away. (I\u2019m almost glad I waited to read it, so I could start The Awakening right away! What an ending!) This book is everything I was hoping for and more! I\u2019ve never read Armstrong before, I really want to read her adult fantasy series, but I just haven\u2019t had a chance and when I heard she was doing a YA series, I just knew that I HAD to read it. This was a very good first in a series. The characters and the plot-line were introduced impressively, I didn\u2019t ever feel like the story was inadequate through getting to know the characters. I love the whole story line of teens thrown in the house that have these extraordinary powers that most aren\u2019t even aware of. The writing was marvelous, the dialogue spirited...no pun intended! The characters were also fascinating. Chloe and Derek were by far my favorite. And I\u2019m hoping to see more of these two in future... especially Derek! This novel has a little bit of everything, action, adventure, fantasy, suspense. It was my type of book! A very surprising cliffhanger ending! (Glad I\u2019ve got the next one right here....) ...more As seen on The Readventurer \"The Summoning\" is the first YA novel written by Kelley Armstrong. It tells a story of Chloe, a 15-year old girl who suddenly finds herself capable of seeing ghosts. Only, of course, nobody believes her and she is quickly sent to a boarding house for disturbed kids for psychological evaluation. It turns out however, that the house and its inhabitants are not quite what they seem to be. While this book was definitely a page turner, I was a little disappointed in it. I fe As seen on The Readventurer \"The Summoning\" is the first YA novel written by Kelley Armstrong. It tells a story of Chloe, a 15-year old girl who suddenly finds herself capable of seeing ghosts. Only, of course, nobody believes her and she is quickly sent to a boarding house for disturbed kids for psychological evaluation. It turns out however, that the house and its inhabitants are not quite what they seem to be. While this book was definitely a page turner, I was a little disappointed in it. I felt that the narration dragged quite a bit in the middle of this novel and the build-up to the climax of the story was too long with almost no payoff. This book definitely read as a part of a trilogy: it had a lot of loose ends and didn't really attempt to give a closure, even a temporary one. I will continue reading this series because I am rather curious to see where the story goes and how the characters develop, but looking back, this is a type of book which is better to read once all parts of the series are out. ...more ^^SURPRISINGLY GOOD!^^ So I bought this book last year at a summer book fair, I was not expecting to like it cus me and Kelley weren\u2019t friends after reading Bitten, which I felt was mediocre at best but this book came as a surprise. First I was all like typical teenage stuff, girl complaining about life, afraid to ask boy to the dance typical stuff. Until this girl starts to see things that no one else can and then it became all kinds of interesting. Chloe Saunders is having some weird dreams abo ^^SURPRISINGLY GOOD!^^ So I bought this book last year at a summer book fair, I was not expecting to like it cus me and Kelley weren\u2019t friends after reading Bitten, which I felt was mediocre at best but this book came as a surprise. First I was all like typical teenage stuff, girl complaining about life, afraid to ask boy to the dance typical stuff. Until this girl starts to see things that no one else can and then it became all kinds of interesting. Chloe Saunders is having some weird dreams about basements and ghosts, with no idea where they are coming from she easily forgets it. Until she gets her period and then all hells breaks loose. Yeh I know its sounds crazy right, but its true. With this new walk into womanhood comes ghost, and this one\u2019s face is all burnt up and Chloe is two seconds away from losing it. A run in with a teacher, who claims Chloe became violent, leads her to being incarcerated at some group home like place called Lyle House. That is when all that Chloe knows no longer exists, she is about to enter into a world she never thought possible and find friends in this unlikely place. Well something is up, the kids in this house don\u2019t seem quite normal especially the huge boy with the acne face who gives Chloe the creeps. Derek is a brooder but he seems to know a lot more than he is letting on; him and his brother. A talk with the house doctor claims Chloe has schizophrenia, and that seems impossible because she still is seeing ghosts. Well going along with their diagnosis seems to be the better thing to do, the quicker she can leave. Well there is something fishy up with Lyle House and the people who run it, all the kids seem to have some kind of power and some are turning up dead. A quick plan for an escape comes up and thus begins the beginning of their lives. Chloe will come to learn she is a necromancer( can raise the dead) and a powerful one, there is a company hell bent on harvesting supernatural\u2019s and if they seem defective they are terminated. Life aint easy for this 15 year old. This book was a prime example of pill pushing, your kid seems to be acting out of character, so that means they have a mental illness. How about you try talking, that works where I come from. Plus this book characters are so well developed it just blew my mind, they seem adult yet they manage to still come off as teenagers, very realistic. It\u2019s also creepy, all that raising the dead was well done. The character of Chloe is likable. Lets talk about Derek, cus I love him. He is described as being ugly and scary but the way he is super sexy. Yeh I know its YA, but he is still sexy, the other characters create a good foundation for a very solid read. As I said I was surprised that it was sooooo good, and I will be continuing the series. ...more The Summoning by Kelly Armstrong is a story about Chloe Saunders who is a fifteen year old necromancer just beginning to realize her powers. She is not quite aware of its possibilities and at the onset of her revelation; she suffers a meltdown in school and is placed in a house supposedly for mentally ill teens. When she arrives at Lyle House, Chloe discovers that her fellow patients also have unusual powers and all is not what it seems to be. The story started off well enough, but really didn't The Summoning by Kelly Armstrong is a story about Chloe Saunders who is a fifteen year old necromancer just beginning to realize her powers. She is not quite aware of its possibilities and at the onset of her revelation; she suffers a meltdown in school and is placed in a house supposedly for mentally ill teens. When she arrives at Lyle House, Chloe discovers that her fellow patients also have unusual powers and all is not what it seems to be. The story started off well enough, but really didn't progress from there for a majority of the book. Then all of a sudden when you feel you're making progress, it abruptly ends, which I feel is wrong, wrong, wrong! I've begun to lose my patience with sharp, blatant cliffhangers and forced series. This story could so easily be complete in one book, and I don't understand why it's being shoved into a trilogy. I'm okay with leaving a few events/issues unresolved and whet your appetite for more to come. However, by the time I was done with this story, it came off as a semi-complete book that left me checking the back cover for some missing pages, which by the way I didn't find. Anywho, back to the story. I felt like meaningless events kept happening one after another and I really didn't get to know the characters, so when the main character did things I didn't agree with, she wasn\u2019t like-able enough in my eyes to want to redeem her. So in the end, I felt she was a deceptive liar. Okay, harsh statement, so let me clarify. It really bothered me that Chloe stole a fellow patient\u2019s file, so she could find out why he was in Lyle house. Not right. I also didn't like when she lied to Simon about tattling on his brother. She said her aunt saw the bruises when she accidentally lifted her sleeve and she didn't tattle. Simon felt horrible about his assumption, which he was originally, before she lied, right about. Again... not right. She was deceptive to the doctors about her progress and even went so far as to say, that she was proud of herself for, \"... putting on an Oscar winning performance.\" Argh!! Not good! She doesn't take her meds and she tried to figure out a way to switch specimen samples. I didn't like any of her tactics. Then at the end there was a sloppy character switch that left me baffled about how I should feel about the whole story. I also thought it was funny a fifteen year old uses words that even I had to look up, okay, I won\u2019t reveal those words to save me some embarrassment, but do fifteen year olds really talk like her? LOL The only character I came to like was Simon. I felt he was somewhat developed as a character. Unfortunately, his brother not only suffered from a \"puberty smack-down\" but a literary smack-down as well. I didn't know how to feel about him, and his reveal at the end just had me shaking my head. I'm glad I borrowed the book from the library because I think I'd be upset for paying full price for an incomplete story. I'm in no hurry to get to the sequel. I'll get to it when I get to it. BTW, I'd give this book two stars, but in respect to my fellow reader that loved it, I'm adding an additional star in case I might have read the wrong book. That is all. ...more This book turned me into a shameless fiend for the Chloe and Derek relationship - I adored their banter, and their romantic date in the basement with the dead bodies, and their other romantic encounter in the shower. (Note: my views on what is romantic may be deeply weird.) On the first read, I found the book a little hard to get into, but on subesequent re-reads that hasn't been a problem at all. Realistic characters, interesting powers, cliffhanger ending... I'd do a lot to get the next book! This book was ^^SURPRISINGLY GOOD! ^^ . At first I thought it was kinda weird but that made me read it more to find out what was going on. This book has everything a book needs. Interesting, mind you, very interesting, characters, mystery, crazy people, and a writing style that says, \"If you put me down, so help me you will regret it. Keep reading, you know you want too.\" Did you hear that? It sang the last part! Sad part is, you keep reading for fear of waiting until the next time you might pick it This book was ^^SURPRISINGLY GOOD! ^^ . At first I thought it was kinda weird but that made me read it more to find out what was going on. This book has everything a book needs. Interesting, mind you, very interesting, characters, mystery, crazy people, and a writing style that says, \"If you put me down, so help me you will regret it. Keep reading, you know you want too.\" Did you hear that? It sang the last part! Sad part is, you keep reading for fear of waiting until the next time you might pick it up. The last thing I will say though is the book leaves you hanging. Literally, when you find out that you finished your jaw drops to the floor! (Well, it happened to me.) Nevertheless, Derek shines and I am looking forward to more of his keen observations and snide remarks. I will continue reading this series because I am rather curious to see where the story goes and how the characters develop. ...more 3.5 - 4 Stars This was a We Love Lisa Kleypas Group \u201cSecret\u201d Santa pick from JessicaB. Thanks, Jessica! This is going to be a fairly short, and a bit uncertain, review. Yes, I can do short ones without hottie photos! ^_^ This is my first Kelley Armstrong book. Chloe Saunders is a late bloomer and puberty doesn\u2019t fully hit her until her 15th birthday, when weird things start happening to her. She's seeing people that nobody else can. When she suffers a breakdown in school, her guardian, Aunt Laure 3.5 - 4 Stars This was a We Love Lisa Kleypas Group \u201cSecret\u201d Santa pick from JessicaB. Thanks, Jessica! This is going to be a fairly short, and a bit uncertain, review. Yes, I can do short ones without hottie photos! ^_^ This is my first Kelley Armstrong book. Chloe Saunders is a late bloomer and puberty doesn\u2019t fully hit her until her 15th birthday, when weird things start happening to her. She's seeing people that nobody else can. When she suffers a breakdown in school, her guardian, Aunt Lauren, sends her to a highly recommended group home called Lyle House. Chloe gets labelled as \u201cSchizophrenic\u201d. It isn\u2019t until another girl in the home with a \u201cthing\u201d for fire befriends her, and suggests to Chloe that she might be actually be seeing ghosts that she begins to think maybe she\u2019s not crazy, after all, just \u201cspecial\u201d. (Wow, that was a long sentence!) She begins to look at others in the home and realises that there may be others who are also \u201cspecial\u201d. This is a YA book, written in the 1st-person (why does it seem like almost all YA books are written this way??), and was an easy read. It is a slow-paced book but drew me in and I could get back into it really easily, even though I read it over a couple of weeks, as I was unwell. I\u2019m rating this 3.5 - 4 Stars because I really did like it, but there\u2019s something \u201cmissing\u201d that I can\u2019t quite put my finger on. This was a library book that I\u2019ve already returned, so I can\u2019t skim it again to figure it out. It may be the slow pace for most of the book? Suddenly things start happening toward the end, then the cliff-hanger ending, and feeling like even though I was engaged, there were things that were maybe drawn out? Yeah, maybe that\u2019s it! ^_^ I don't know. Sorry if that's not very helpful. It's a bit fuzzy right now. I am most interested in finding out more about the gruff and hugely built Derek, and no, not because he is muscular and well-built. Ahem. I really didn\u2019t like him, at first, but then he captured my interest towards the middle of the book, and I found him more intriguing than his nice, good-looking brother, Simon. I will read the next book in this Darkest Powers series because I\u2019m curious about where this story is going. This was very much a lead-in to the rest of the books in the series. And I am interested in trying the Women of the Otherworld series (Adult) by this author, which was recommended to me by another GRs friend (Lisarenee). Favourite quote: \"Life experience. I can talk it up, vow to broaden my horizons, but I\u2019m still limited to the experiences with my life. How can a person understand an experience that lies completely outside her own? She can see it, feel it, imagine what it would be like to live it, but it\u2019s no different from seeing a movie on a screen and saying, \u201cThank God that\u2019s not me\u201d.\" How very true. COPYRIGHT DISCLAIMER: I do not hold the copyright to any of the images used in this review. They are posted to add visuals to the review and for fun. If any of these images are yours and you would like me to remove them, please let me know, and I will do so as soon as possible. If I can identify the copyright, I will do so. ...more Honestly, I added these books to my tbr forever ago, assuming I would likely never read them. But then I was in the library and the complete series was on the shelf right in front of me so I figured why not? Low expectations, lots of potential. And wow was I pleasantly surprised. I blew through this, didn't want to put it down. It was really entertaining and the characters were so very genuine. Believable. And I enjoyed being in the protagonists' head. Definitely looking forward to reading the re Honestly, I added these books to my tbr forever ago, assuming I would likely never read them. But then I was in the library and the complete series was on the shelf right in front of me so I figured why not? Low expectations, lots of potential. And wow was I pleasantly surprised. I blew through this, didn't want to put it down. It was really entertaining and the characters were so very genuine. Believable. And I enjoyed being in the protagonists' head. Definitely looking forward to reading the rest of the trilogy, and I'll probably write a real full out review for the last book. It depends. ...more Oh, God! Have mercy, this book is so amazing. I can't even form words properly. It is my second time when I try to read it, I first tried some years ago and I read just the first chapters and I considered them quite boring. But now, I went further and I'm so greatful that I did so. At first, it seems like your typical girl-sees-ghost story, where the girl ends-up in some house for people with problems. Chloe is a character which I could totally relate to. She was passionate about movies and she Oh, God! Have mercy, this book is so amazing. I can't even form words properly. It is my second time when I try to read it, I first tried some years ago and I read just the first chapters and I considered them quite boring. But now, I went further and I'm so greatful that I did so. At first, it seems like your typical girl-sees-ghost story, where the girl ends-up in some house for people with problems. Chloe is a character which I could totally relate to. She was passionate about movies and she always saw her life as one. I fell for Derek/Chloe as the storyline progressed because they're a really weird couple at first glance. But as I look more at everything that happened between them they're totally meant to be together. I can see an endgame coming! ...more From when Chloe Saunders was just a little girl, she saw ghosts. Of course then, she thought they were only nightmarish imaginary friends. And her life seemed to become almost normal when they moved out of that haunted house and after her mom died. But when Chloe hits puberty, she starts seeing the ghosts again. Now she\u2019s forced to stay in Lyle House so she can learn to cope with her \u201cschizophrenia.\u201d But the other kids at Lyle House have also been incorrectly diagnosed with mental problems. Ther From when Chloe Saunders was just a little girl, she saw ghosts. Of course then, she thought they were only nightmarish imaginary friends. And her life seemed to become almost normal when they moved out of that haunted house and after her mom died. But when Chloe hits puberty, she starts seeing the ghosts again. Now she\u2019s forced to stay in Lyle House so she can learn to cope with her \u201cschizophrenia.\u201d But the other kids at Lyle House have also been incorrectly diagnosed with mental problems. There\u2019s a reason certain doors remain locked and there special kids are gathered in this institution. As Chloe works to uncover these sinister secrets, she starts to question everything around her, from her \u201cschizophrenia,\u201d to what happened to her roommate who was taken away, and even to her mother\u2019s death. My first reaction after finishing this novel was WOW. Kelley Armstrong does an amazing job of connecting Chloe\u2019s past with her present and weaving the other characters\u2019 stories in as well. the story was highly suspenseful and action-packed and the exciting twists and turns kept me guessing. The novel focuses mainly on plot, so there isn\u2019t much characterization, but the suspense, secrets, and action were more than enough to hold my interest. I most definitely recommend this novel, especially to fans of the Maximum Ride series by James Patterson or the Uglies and Midnighters series by Scott Westerfeld. The Summoning will be part of a trilogy, which I am very excited about, and will be published by HarperTeen in late August, which those of you who don\u2019t already have a copy of this great book should be thrilled about. reposted from http://thebookmuncher.blogspot.com ...more I feel I should state three things before starting this review. 1. I am older than the target audience for this book. 2. I like Armstrong's adult novels (that's why I picked this up). 3. The first part of this review is going to include a rant. Positive remarks follow. I wanted to like The Summoning more than I did; it is after all basically \"Teens of the Otherworld\". The first problem occurred early on in the novel where Chloe describes herself to the reader. She is skinny, very skinny, so skinny I feel I should state three things before starting this review. 1. I am older than the target audience for this book. 2. I like Armstrong's adult novels (that's why I picked this up). 3. The first part of this review is going to include a rant. Positive remarks follow. I wanted to like The Summoning more than I did; it is after all basically \"Teens of the Otherworld\". The first problem occurred early on in the novel where Chloe describes herself to the reader. She is skinny, very skinny, so skinny that she doesn't have curves (so at least Armstrong is realistic) unless she wears tight jeans and a tight shirt (so that would be a size -1). I almost put the book down then. Honestly, what is with the paranormal genre that it has all these tiny, too skinny women and girls in it. The authors seem to do it to make the female leads stand out, but instead, they all sound the same. Well, how about doing something completely different to make the character stand out. Make her a size 14! (I think a size 18 would be asking for too much). Better yet, give her acne! Thick glasses! A mouth full dental equipment! Or if she is soooo skinny, show her exercising! The only writer who does this is Hamilton. Anita Blake use to jog and now she has another work out entirely. I can understand how shape shifters stay slim, but everyone else? The only author who ever did anything original in terms of her character was Tanya Huff when she gave Vicki bad eyes. That was different. That made Vicki stand out. Super skinny doesn't do it. At least Armstrong didn't include the \"I'm a mixed racial woman and no one thinks I'm pretty because my boyfriend's family thought I was too dark\" route. That is worse because it negates any serious look at race by turning it simply into romantic angst. Plus, saying no one thinks I'm pretty while every male in the book is chasing the you, makes you unsympathetic to some readers. Armstrong, thankfully, doesn't do that either. But, I didn't put the book down. It's not really a bad book, and it\u2019s possible for writers to write books that are for children but also work for adults; Terry Pratchett does it really well. It\u2019s not done here. For me, there were several problems. The first problem is that Chloe rarely sounds her age. She sounds exactly like all of Armstrong's other female narrators. This is Armstrong's major flaw. All her first person narrators, with perhaps one exception, talk the same way. Their actions and responses are different, but their tone and way of talking are the same. There should be some difference (for a good example of this look at Pears, Joanne Harris or Monette who switch perspectives in their novels. The tone and style of the speaker shift too). The flaw stands out more here. For large chunks of the book, I forgot Chloe was 15 because she didn't talk or think like a teen The second problem also concerns Chloe. Towards the end of the book, she gains street smarts, though she has had a relatively non street life. Rae, who should have them, loses street smarts. I also fail to understand how packing for a trip in France educates you in packing to live on the streets. This makes Chloe the quasi Mary Sue who does everything. This change in Chloe doesn't quite make sense because most of the action takes place over a week. Once you remember that, some of Chloe's actions and thoughts (and she is really condescending in one passage) don't make much sense. The third problem, isn't so much of problem, but Chloe and Derek seem to be based heavily on Armstrong's Elena and Clay, almost as if she is playing a what if. This isn't so bad, but it makes Chloe and Derek look like shadows. It doesn't help that all the other characters are cliche. Or that we are back to the all older women are evil unless they are the dead sainted mother. This is a teen novel, so maybe it should get a pass on that one. That said, the book isn't all bad. In fact, there are some really nice touches. The first is Chloe. Chloe wants to go into the movie business, but as a director. I liked that touch. It made Chloe stand out in a way that being super skinny didn\u2019t and made me think better of her. Armstrong plays with this idea several times in the books and shows, not tells, but shows the reader that Chloe really likes, understands, and studies film. That was a really good touch. Armstrong also seems aware of the fact that her characters are largely walking cliches, so Chloe will think \"if this was a movie, this would happen, but since it's not\". I actually liked that. There is no sex, though there is some very, very, very light romantic touches, so it's a smut clean book. All the girls have brains too. Overall, I have to say that as an adult I didn't like, didn't hate. It really was okay, though I am glad I got at an used book stall for cheap. I think, however, if I was a teen or a pre-teen, I would've enjoyed it far more. ...more Puberty brings more than periods and acne in the first book of Kelley Armstrong's new young adult Darkest Powers trilogy, The Summoning . At fifteen, Chloe Saunders still hasn't menstruated. But the day it hits coincides with the ghost of a custodian haunting Chloe at school, until she finally breaks down. Told she has schizophrenia, she's sent to live in a group home for other teens dealing with mental illness. Or are they? But Lyle House's patients are here by no happy accident, judging by the su Puberty brings more than periods and acne in the first book of Kelley Armstrong's new young adult Darkest Powers trilogy, The Summoning . At fifteen, Chloe Saunders still hasn't menstruated. But the day it hits coincides with the ghost of a custodian haunting Chloe at school, until she finally breaks down. Told she has schizophrenia, she's sent to live in a group home for other teens dealing with mental illness. Or are they? But Lyle House's patients are here by no happy accident, judging by the supernatural happenings. As Chloe comes to terms with her necromancy, she learns her powers are much stronger than they should be. Ghosts have been more hindrance than help in the past, but there's one particular ghost who could provide information the group needs. If only Chloe can figure out how to contact her... Though this is a new supernatural YA series, it has the same \"world rules\" as the author's adult Otherworld series. Yet on the whole this is the freshest, most compelling novel Kelley Armstrong's written for quite some time, reinvigorating my passion for her books. This was mainly helped by the claustrophobic setting of Lyle House, which isn't haunted per se... The author's stepped her characterisation up to a new level. While at first Chloe's film-directing obsession and stuttering are annoying, I soon understood that these are coping mechanisms, and we all have them in one variety or another. And a particular character's supernatural ability (appearing late in the novel) is a far cry from the glamorous versions usually populating paranormal fiction. Then there's the scientific element that I can't wait to read more about. Indeed, there are a lot of unanswered questions, and a cliffhanger ending. But with two more books left in this trilogy, hopefully all will be explained. Now to be patient for the second installment, The Awakening ... ...more 'I see dead people' - well, it worked in \"Sixth Sense\" and it definitely works here, mainly because there's so much more here than that. Chloe gets her first period and is harassed by a very gross-looking ghost on the same day - at school, of course! She's happy about the first event, even tho she has to vandalize the bathroom dispenser to get a sanitary napkin, but the ghost (her second of the day) really freaks her out, and the school insists on two weeks of counseling in a group youth center 'I see dead people' - well, it worked in \"Sixth Sense\" and it definitely works here, mainly because there's so much more here than that. Chloe gets her first period and is harassed by a very gross-looking ghost on the same day - at school, of course! She's happy about the first event, even tho she has to vandalize the bathroom dispenser to get a sanitary napkin, but the ghost (her second of the day) really freaks her out, and the school insists on two weeks of counseling in a group youth center before she can return to school. There she's told she has schizophrenia and needs meds to keep her behavior 'normal'. Since Chloe wants above all to be normal, she willingly takes the pills, until other events and behaviors in the center cause her to question what she's been told. This was my 13th book for the month - how appropriate!! I initially rated it a strong 4.5* but have raised it to 5*. At first I felt that the beginning chapters were not compelling enough, but now I'm thinking that the author was trying to make the reader look at two strong but opposing reasons for Chloe's behavior, and make them both believable. So she set the hook really well. But now, of course, I have to get the next book! ...more When I first read this book I was like... I remember when I first read this book, it was the night before I wrote my Life Science exam last year. After waiting for the shipment of the book (I ordered it online) and then ignoring it for a whole week it finally caught up with me. Of course it was like freaking Pandora's box near me. I told myself I\u2019d just read a few chapters and leave it, so much for that happening; I remember I couldn\u2019t put the freaking book down. Now after re-reading this book I When I first read this book I was like... I remember when I first read this book, it was the night before I wrote my Life Science exam last year. After waiting for the shipment of the book (I ordered it online) and then ignoring it for a whole week it finally caught up with me. Of course it was like freaking Pandora's box near me. I told myself I\u2019d just read a few chapters and leave it, so much for that happening; I remember I couldn\u2019t put the freaking book down. Now after re-reading this book I still couldn\u2019t put it down. Chloe Saunders attends an art school where she sees a burnt curator that harasses her but the problem is no one else can see him. So she is sent Lyle House, a group home for people in need of \u2018professional help\u2019. Here she meets Elizabeth Delaney, Rachelle, Victoria Enright and Derek and Simon Souza. The place is like boot camp, only for supposedly crazy people because they diagnosed her as schizophrenic. The problem is everyone seems a normal except Elizabeth has a supposed poltergeist , Tori is a bit of a bitch, Rachelle likes fire and Derek has an abnormal about of strength as for Simon, he\u2019s not part of the crazy group. The arrogant, rude, brooding Derek suspects that the Chloe actually sees ghosts. Soon enough Chloe finds out she\u2019s a necromancer. Simon and Derek are also supernaturals who have been on the run for more than decade with their dad. Now Derek wants to break Simon and Chloe out so they can look for Simon\u2019s dad. Time starts ticking when they try to find out why they really are there. Ahhhhhh! The book was awesome. I usually avoid the books that have heroines that are younger than me (they somehow annoy me). This book however, was spectacular; although I couldn\u2019t relate to the heroin which I might add is nothing compared the strong heroines I usually favour. I figure I\u2019m more of a female Derek. I loved every character here but I loved Chloe the most. Her ingenuity was practically perfection. The action scenes or ghost scenes were quite enjoyable. Hats off to Armstrong, the book was ingenious. ...more 3.5 stars Chloe Saunders\u2019 life was as normal as she can get. Her family keeps moving, so it\u2019s kind of hard not to get too special as being a new-rich-girl-in-school. It was normal\u2026 until her puberty kicks, and she gets to see a burning janitor. Is that a hallucination? Or a real ghost? Chloe didn\u2019t have time to consider, because her school and family send her right away to Lyle House, a group home for disturbed kids. Counselor there somehow seems so keen to label her having schizophrenia. All Chlo 3.5 stars Chloe Saunders\u2019 life was as normal as she can get. Her family keeps moving, so it\u2019s kind of hard not to get too special as being a new-rich-girl-in-school. It was normal\u2026 until her puberty kicks, and she gets to see a burning janitor. Is that a hallucination? Or a real ghost? Chloe didn\u2019t have time to consider, because her school and family send her right away to Lyle House, a group home for disturbed kids. Counselor there somehow seems so keen to label her having schizophrenia. All Chloe wants to do is going home soon, but it seems unlikely for her. As the story progresses, Chloe starts to question the diagnosis of schizophrenia. She also meets other patients in Lyle House who quickly become her alley. Together, they determined to unveil the secret of Lyle House\u2026 and know their supernatural power too\u2026 I was a necromancer. Having a label should have come as a relief, but I wasn't sure this one was any better than schizophrenic. At least schizophrenia was a known and accepted condition. I could talk to people about it, get help coping with it, take my meds, and make the symptoms go away. Those same meds might cover the symptoms of necromancy, but as Simon said, it would be like coloring my hair. I'd still be the same underneath, my true nature waiting to pop up as soon as the medication wore off Necromancy. As bizarre as it sounded, the explanation that made the most sense was the most far-fetched one. ...more \"We'd run down the stairs together every morning all through kindergarten and half of first grade and then... well, then there wasn't anyone to run down the stairs with anymore.\" This first book always kills me a little bit inside. Especially this quote up there. :'( \"Cleavage is great,\" she said. \"Like an extra pocket.\" Preach it Rae. Preach it. \"It's called being considerate. Maybe you've heard of it?\" He batted my hand from the dials. \"Darks, cold. Or you'll end up with the dye bleeding.\" A gla \"We'd run down the stairs together every morning all through kindergarten and half of first grade and then... well, then there wasn't anyone to run down the stairs with anymore.\" This first book always kills me a little bit inside. Especially this quote up there. :'( \"Cleavage is great,\" she said. \"Like an extra pocket.\" Preach it Rae. Preach it. \"It's called being considerate. Maybe you've heard of it?\" He batted my hand from the dials. \"Darks, cold. Or you'll end up with the dye bleeding.\" A glance back at me. \"See? I'm considerate.\" We turn to see Derek crossing the lawn. Simon swore. \"Anyone ever tell you your sense of timing really sucks.\" \"That's why I don't play the drums. Now what's up?\" Derek I love you. The sass is certainly strong with this one. Plus the sarcasm is fantastic. <3 Just stay still. If you stay still, it's cant find you. That's sharks! You idiot, sharks and dinosaurs can't find you if you stay still. This isn't Jurassic Park! I think I laughed way too hard at that part. \"Don't.\" A sharp intake of breath, then he expelled the words. \"Don't go.\" Guys!!!!! :'D I got a little teary at this part. It's just so darn cute!! Read - May 2015. 5 stars. Re read- January 2017. 5 stars. ...more I don't know why I wasn't expecting this book to be very good, but I really liked it. It's Kelley Armstrong's first young adult novel, and I think she really nails it. It was interesting enough that it can captivate an adult audience, but wasn't too mature that it would turn off some of the younger readers. I enjoyed the story line, and I remembered that it takes place in the Otherworld, the same as her adult series about half way through the book... and it all made sense then! I wonder if we'll I don't know why I wasn't expecting this book to be very good, but I really liked it. It's Kelley Armstrong's first young adult novel, and I think she really nails it. It was interesting enough that it can captivate an adult audience, but wasn't too mature that it would turn off some of the younger readers. I enjoyed the story line, and I remembered that it takes place in the Otherworld, the same as her adult series about half way through the book... and it all made sense then! I wonder if we'll see any of the Otherworld adult cast in this series? I found the characters and the situations believable (as believable as can be... maybe read-able would be a better description?). The action and plot was perfectly timed, and the writing, as always, is very good. I would definitely recommend this book to people over the age of 16. There is no smut of any kind (although there is implied fooling around, but no one is actually doing so), so unless your 16 year old scares easily, this is a pretty safe teen read. This heroine is at least tolerable and you wouldn't have to worry about your daughter turning into a simpering fool after reading this book! :o) ...more Meine Rezension: https://youtu.be/tsXO1hpkvQo This book got better as it went on, and I ended up enjoying it a lot more than I initially thought I would. And I really love Derek. I liked him more than Simon from the beginning. He was interesting and mysterious. But I wondered why he was always described physically in the more unflattering way possible. But as the book went on Chloe spent more and more time with Derek rather than Simon and I was really glad we got to know him more. And in the end, when we found out he was (view spoiler) [a we This book got better as it went on, and I ended up enjoying it a lot more than I initially thought I would. And I really love Derek. I liked him more than Simon from the beginning. He was interesting and mysterious. But I wondered why he was always described physically in the more unflattering way possible. But as the book went on Chloe spent more and more time with Derek rather than Simon and I was really glad we got to know him more. And in the end, when we found out he was (view spoiler) [a werewolf (hide spoiler) ] , for some reason that felt like a vindication to me. Like, it gave him a reason to be gloomy, and gave him more of a purpose in the story. I don't know, but I was just really happy about that. I am going to start book 2 right away, and I cant wait until Chloe is reunited with the brothers again. ...more Finally I stepped into untreaded waters! that is to say reading YA Urban fiction that a majority of the female audience seem to have been reading on goodreads and enjoying. I must say it has been pleasant and enjoyable experience reading Armstrong's first novel of a series here and I am hooked and loved walking P.O.V through Chloe's world in this story. \"I see Dead people\" Chloe is a Girl you'll love a movie buff who's got boyfriends at the bottom of the list at the moment. Put a label on it! Medic Finally I stepped into untreaded waters! that is to say reading YA Urban fiction that a majority of the female audience seem to have been reading on goodreads and enjoying. I must say it has been pleasant and enjoyable experience reading Armstrong's first novel of a series here and I am hooked and loved walking P.O.V through Chloe's world in this story. \"I see Dead people\" Chloe is a Girl you'll love a movie buff who's got boyfriends at the bottom of the list at the moment. Put a label on it! Medicate it! Hope it will just go away! No! This is one symptom that will not go away! What are people around Chloe trying to cover up? Written in a style that makes the words flow off the page and enjoyable to read. You are immersed into Chloe' s life. A fifteen year old girl you will love to get close to and follow in her footsteps through a world of Necromancers half-demons and Shamans. Well maybe let's say the beginning of this world. Chloe comes together with other kids like her very special and gifted Rachelle, Victoria and Simon are important and special to others also. What about Derek? How can Chloe help him? ...more 4,5 stars What i think, is that i should have read this book a long time ago...that's how good i though this one was. This is a story about a very special group of teenagers. For those of you who are familiar with the author's series \"Woman of the otherworld\", i will just tell you this: _Imagine all those characters, werewolfes, necromancers, witches, half-demons, the whole group....now imagine them growing up having no idea what they were. Imagine them growing up without someone who understands w 4,5 stars What i think, is that i should have read this book a long time ago...that's how good i though this one was. This is a story about a very special group of teenagers. For those of you who are familiar with the author's series \"Woman of the otherworld\", i will just tell you this: _Imagine all those characters, werewolfes, necromancers, witches, half-demons, the whole group....now imagine them growing up having no idea what they were. Imagine them growing up without someone who understands what they are destined to go through...can you imagine that? Yes, that's a disaster waiting to happen. Probably for decades now, teenagers like Chloe, Derek, Simon and Rae have been sent to the Lyle House. A group house for problematic teenagers....aka, a detention house for supernatural teenagers. And if you don't conform yourself with the program, you get dispatched. Permanently. This was a very intense read. It started out as a spooky ghost story, and developed itself into a non-stop action thriller. I can't wait to read the second one, and see what is reserved for all these characters. Especially to Chloe and Derek. ...more Actual Rating: 2.5/5 stars I didn't find anything special about this one. What set it apart? I cannot tell you because I don't know the answer to that. I was unimpressed. The main characters are lacking. I don't know why but I can't seem to root for any of them. I wished I could say more but I can't come up with anything right now. They're okay, I guess. I was majorly bored. Overall, I find this story not engaging enough because I was always getting distracted by a lot of things (and while reading Actual Rating: 2.5/5 stars I didn't find anything special about this one. What set it apart? I cannot tell you because I don't know the answer to that. I was unimpressed. The main characters are lacking. I don't know why but I can't seem to root for any of them. I wished I could say more but I can't come up with anything right now. They're okay, I guess. I was majorly bored. Overall, I find this story not engaging enough because I was always getting distracted by a lot of things (and while reading a book, that's a bad sign). I have to give this book plus points, though. Definitely didn't see that villain coming. This have an ending that made me want to continue reading the series though, so I will. Hope I will enjoy the next one more. ...more Not bad. In fact, pretty good. It started off kinda weird, and it had a few parts that were a little strange and/or predictable. Over all, though, the plot developed nicely, and I liked the characters ... I got kind of addicted to it, and I'm eager to read the sequel when it comes out. :) Wonderfully written characters, exceptionally good and genuine rendetion of human relationships and paranormal elements that aren't too complex to annoy the reader, but used in the fresh, urban-fantasy-ish way that I adore. The whole Darkest Power-series captivated me from page one on. I'd like to point something out that makes me seriously fall for Kelley Armstrong. Authors tend to give their characters mental deceases or a traumatic childhood but then, later, make it unrealistic, unbelievable. I Wonderfully written characters, exceptionally good and genuine rendetion of human relationships and paranormal elements that aren't too complex to annoy the reader, but used in the fresh, urban-fantasy-ish way that I adore. The whole Darkest Power-series captivated me from page one on. I'd like to point something out that makes me seriously fall for Kelley Armstrong. Authors tend to give their characters mental deceases or a traumatic childhood but then, later, make it unrealistic, unbelievable. In \u00bbThe Summoning\u00ab, the heroine, Chloe , sees a ghost and freaks out. She is then forced to move to a group home full of troubled teenagers. There are two things that Armstrong managed to write while many other authors didn't. First: She did a good research . I'm not only bookblogging, but also have a blog that's about mental deceases. Because of that I'm in contact with many people who suffer from mental deceases and with therapists et cetera. So, it's probably understandable that I often want to skin people alive when they're biased about things or have no idea what they're actually talking about but still manage to judge others. Well, Armstrong really made a point with her books. Her characters have been told that they suffer from Shizophrenia, Pyromania, Antisocial personality disorder and maybe (never been named, but it sounded like that) bipolar disorder and dissociative personality disorder and the symptoms 'fit'.. However that's not the 'real' point, since many readers won't care about such things. Two: The amazing thing is that unlike Vincent did in the first prequel of the Soul Screamers series, the reader isn't left with the impression that the heroine thinks a mental decease is something 'bad' or people with a bipolar disorder are crazy. Chloe's open minded. She doesn't like it, she doesn't believe it and she sure as hell hates that she might be shizophrenic. But she does not judge . THANK YOU VERY MUCH! And here we're actually in the middle of the beginning already. Chloe is a nice, rather quite girl. Her mom's dead and her father is a businessmen, so she's alone quite often. Her aunt's her closest relative and she has two friends in art school. She then has this 'Wha, gosh, ghost, aaaah'-moment and is diagnosed with Shizophrenia. Only that no, she isn't shizophrenic and in Lylehouse some things don't seem to be .. right. She there meets several teens. Simon and Derek , who are (foster)siblings, Liz , her roommate, Tori , Liz's best friend and a total bitch and Rae , the girl who has a thing for fire (as the blurb says) and soon becomes the closest thing to a friend Chloe has in there. The Summoning was sometimes a bit slow, which is the reason for the 'normal' 4 rating. Anyway, I enjoyed the read very much. Armstrong didn't need to fill the novel with semi-steamy make-out-scenes and I swear that almost every Twihard will still love it. ;b Read, read, read! I could still kill myself for waiting so long! The Books The Summoning The Awakening The Reckoning Darkness Rising : (Spin-Off) The Gathering (The Calling, 2012) (Untitled, 2012?) There are three free short stories that I know of: Dangerous Divided Disenchanted ...more Everybody is writing YA fiction these days ( well, maybe not Laurel K Hamilton but give it time). Kelley Armstrong has a series with a very complicated supernatural universe, full of everything supernatural and with an incredibly fast publication rate. I jumped ship at book 3 or 4. I quite liked her first novel as an werewolf romance, but the other books just brought on more and more uninteresting ( and rather whine-y) characters and a paranoid type of universe which did not feel all that credib Everybody is writing YA fiction these days ( well, maybe not Laurel K Hamilton but give it time). Kelley Armstrong has a series with a very complicated supernatural universe, full of everything supernatural and with an incredibly fast publication rate. I jumped ship at book 3 or 4. I quite liked her first novel as an werewolf romance, but the other books just brought on more and more uninteresting ( and rather whine-y) characters and a paranoid type of universe which did not feel all that credible to me. So I am not sure where Ms Armstrong adult fantasy series is at currently but this new YA series looks to be a spinoff of that universe. This will be sure to atract readers of the other series, but it\u00b4s a turnoff for me since I don\u00b4t particularly believe in that universe - suspension of disbelief is not automatic for me and it is important that the author makes it work for me. So count this as bias. One big proviso about this book is that it is incomplete, it\u00b4a a setup, a start, an introduction of characters ( even the kids looked to be each given a different race/coloring to help us distinguish each easily). Its conclusion is a cliffhanger and totally unsatisfactory for a novel ( my advice, wait for the omnibus volume to come out). More questions are raised by that ending than there were at the beginning. The other warning relates to this being a a spinoff of a universe which seems to well defined and preexistent already ( to the point I picked up one clue on my own) and the discovery and acceptance of that universe seems both too easy from characters as well as the evilness of the opponents looks unlikely in scale for a reader who has only the context of this book. And for a YA book, while there are some sassy snarky bits of dialogue, the conflict seems all plot derived and external. ...more Fantastic! The Summoning is a thrilling book, with characters who are truly teenagers and a plot that\u2019s disturbing and twisted. Kelley Armstrong sucked me in with a terrifying and gripping opening chapter, promising a strong story and fascinating characters. She certainly delivered. The story is well-paced and Chloe is a likable heroine. For once, the lead in a YA is more concerned with sorting out her life than she is with the opinion of the cute boy down the hall. She suffers the appropriate d Fantastic! The Summoning is a thrilling book, with characters who are truly teenagers and a plot that\u2019s disturbing and twisted. Kelley Armstrong sucked me in with a terrifying and gripping opening chapter, promising a strong story and fascinating characters. She certainly delivered. The story is well-paced and Chloe is a likable heroine. For once, the lead in a YA is more concerned with sorting out her life than she is with the opinion of the cute boy down the hall. She suffers the appropriate degree of reluctance when faced with the supernatural, but is not so stubborn as to ignore the truth. She evaluates everything and makes clear decisions. I enjoyed her method of looking at life experiences as part of a movie. She hopes to become a director and a screenwriter someday--this allows her to weigh her options with a certain detachment that serves her well in exploring Lyle House\u2019s mysteries. The other kids in the group home are easy to identify with: the chipper, sweet peacemaker; the nasty attention-seeker; the tough girl who tries to take things in stride; the affable golden boy; and last but not least the sullen teen suffering from a \u201cpuberty smackdown.\u201d Each plays an important role in the story, although Mr. Sullen--Derek--is the stand-out among them. I\u2019m anxious to learn more about him. Then again, I\u2019m anxious to learn more about all of them. Kelly Armstrong has created a story filled with conspiracies and terror, and I don\u2019t think this book even scratches the surface. I can\u2019t imagine how Chloe will get clear of the precarious position we leave her in, but I am sure it will be exciting. ...more", "Title": "The Summoning"},
