{"Comments": "<+++>Down River</+++> is the second book I have read by <---A>John Hart</---A>.<---F> What a storyteller he is</---F>. Set in Rowan County,<---M> North Carolina</---M>, <---C>Adam</---C> Chase returns home after living in New York for five years. Acquitted of a murder charge prior to leaving, and abandoned by his family, he finds the county and his family still unforgiving upon his return. And then the bodies start showing up. Hounded by the police who consider him a prime suspect, Adam starts hunting for the real killer or killers. The author expertly takes <+++>Down River</+++> is the second book I have read by John Hart. What a storyteller he is. Set in Rowan County, North Carolina, Adam Chase returns home after living in New York for five years. Acquitted of a murder charge prior to leaving, and abandoned by his family, he finds the county and his family still unforgiving upon his return. And then the bodies start showing up. Hounded by the police who consider him a prime suspect, Adam starts hunting for the real killer or killers. The author expertly takes the reader exploring into the dark side of each character, the choices each has made and how they have lived with the consequences. This is an excellent story of what length people will go to for greed, revenge and family and whether forgiveness is obtainable. Through the development of his characters, secrets are revealed a little at a time. Interestingly, whether good or bad, I enjoyed each character he introduced throughout the book. Highly recommend. 5 out of 5 stars. ...more It is such a pleasure to read John Hart's books. Yes, they are mysteries, but they are also \"literature.\" The North Carolina setting is atmospheric, and the characters come alive. Adam has come home after a five-year exile. He had been accused, tried, and acquitted of a murder he did not commit, but still not very many people believe him. There are a lot of skeletons in Adam's family, and John Hart deliciously and slowly lays them bare. There are more murders, deceit, and heartbreak, but also str It is such a pleasure to read John Hart's books. Yes, they are mysteries, but they are also \"literature.\" The North Carolina setting is atmospheric, and the characters come alive. Adam has come home after a five-year exile. He had been accused, tried, and acquitted of a murder he did not commit, but still not very many people believe him. There are a lot of skeletons in Adam's family, and John Hart deliciously and slowly lays them bare. There are more murders, deceit, and heartbreak, but also strong love and friendship. The question is will the family recover and heal? I liked Adam and understood where he was coming from. I also liked his father, in spite of the history. Brother Jamie sometimes rubbed me the wrong way. I'm looking forward to the next book! ...more No. No, no, no. Overwrought, overly dramatic, just...too much. I read the first 100 pages, was irritated, then read the last 20 pages and felt like i did ok with skipping the rest. The main character is accused of killing a young man 10 years ago and is totally sold out by his stepmother. His father doesn't back him and he can't figure out why. He leaves without a word to anyone, goes to NY, leaves his detective lover behind (<---B>who is VERY ANGRY THAT HE LEFT</---B>) and then comes back (don't know why) to No. No, no, no. Overwrought, overly dramatic, just...too much. I read the first 100 pages, was irritated, then read the last 20 pages and felt like i did ok with skipping the rest. The main character is accused of killing a young man 10 years ago and is totally sold out by his stepmother. His father doesn't back him and he can't figure out why. He leaves without a word to anyone, goes to NY, leaves his detective lover behind (who is VERY ANGRY THAT HE LEFT) and then comes back (don't know why) to mend fences and figure out who killed the dude. There's all kinds of FAMILY DRAMA and he is VERY ANGRY and NOBODY IS HAPPY TO SEE HIM. So much drama! So over the top! Bleh. I loved King of Lies, I don't remember it taking itself this seriously, but I just couldn't get behind everything being connected and all of the family ties coming apart. Dark family secrets! Love children! Untrustworthy siblings! Vengeance! Mean daddies! Hart wrote with too heavy a hand and pissed me off. Just...no. I seem to be in the minority, so i'm curious if anyone else reads it and agrees with me. But if you read it and hate it, don't say I didn't warn you! ...more I\u2019m officially a John Hart fan. He\u2019s got me hooked. I got Hart\u2019s novel The Last Child as a birthday gift last October and pounded through it, enjoying it immensely (see previous review). When looking for a book as a gift for my dad earlier this April, I stumbled across The King of Lies and purchased it for him, and soon thereafter, I picked up Down River, my thought process being that we\u2019d read our books and then swap. Both of us were done with our respective novels in less than three days! That I\u2019m officially a John Hart fan. He\u2019s got me hooked. I got Hart\u2019s novel The Last Child as a birthday gift last October and pounded through it, enjoying it immensely (see previous review). When looking for a book as a gift for my dad earlier this April, I stumbled across The King of Lies and purchased it for him, and soon thereafter, I picked up Down River, my thought process being that we\u2019d read our books and then swap. Both of us were done with our respective novels in less than three days! That brings up my first point with regard to Down River\u2014Hart has mastered the art of the suspenseful, plot-driven novel that keeps the reader turning pages. And I appreciate that about him. What sets Hart apart, however, is that his novels do have some literary merit beyond the intriguing plot. As the Publishers Weekly review inside the novel notes, \u201cThis book should settle once and for all the question of whether thrillers and mysteries can also be literature.\u201d Down River is particularly literary in that it addresses key themes, and Hart\u2019s gritty prose is atypical for this \u201ctype\u201d of author. A final point worth making is that some intriguing intertextuality exists between Down River and Khaled Hosseini\u2019s The Kite Runner. Similar issues of loyalty, acts of infidelity, and \u201cbig reveal\u201d plot twists are present\u2014if you\u2019re ever bored, I suggest reading one right after the other and noting the connections. Both books are good, and the act of analysis will keep your brain fresh! ...more loved I have been taken by all things John Hart. This is my third book by this author. Adam Chase is The Angry Young Man. Hart portrays his character as the wayward son returning home to a small North Carolina town after a five year absence. Previously, Adam had been arrested and tried for the death of another young man in that same town. Although acquitted, his own family and the town itself still believe that Adam committed the crime. As Ricky Ricardo would say: \"There's a lot of 'splainin' to be don I have been taken by all things John Hart. This is my third book by this author. Adam Chase is The Angry Young Man. Hart portrays his character as the wayward son returning home to a small North Carolina town after a five year absence. Previously, Adam had been arrested and tried for the death of another young man in that same town. Although acquitted, his own family and the town itself still believe that Adam committed the crime. As Ricky Ricardo would say: \"There's a lot of 'splainin' to be done here.\" Adam simmers and marinates in anger 24/7. In truth, I did not like the character of Adam. There, I said it. Perhaps John Hart's intention was to make this so. From childhood on, Adam has walked into continuous cesspools of causal factors to shellac him with layers of rage and vexation. He sees the world in darkness and he builds unscalable walls to keep the darkness in. It is John Hart's writing that kept me engaged in this story even when Adam fought so hard to keep me out. The supporting characters keep the storyline aloft and flowing. You will come to see how each one is essential in applying shades of color beyond blurred lines. There's a story to tell here. Where, exactly, is home? And can we ever truly return to our own concept of what constitutes just that? John Hart will take you down this river of raw emotions and Adam will finally face the reflections that stare back at him through those very, very dark waters. ...more I bought this book because it was an Amazon.com recommendation and received very good reviews from Amazon readers. It goes to show that you should take reviews with a grain of salt and ask questions such as, \"what other books did you think were as great as this one?\" If the answer includes John Grisham, then tread carefully. While John Hart is a better overall writer than Grisham, I can only describe this book as 'grishom-esque', i.e., a pre-screenplay. Southern gothic in a predictable pedestria I bought this book because it was an Amazon.com recommendation and received very good reviews from Amazon readers. It goes to show that you should take reviews with a grain of salt and ask questions such as, \"what other books did you think were as great as this one?\" If the answer includes John Grisham, then tread carefully. While John Hart is a better overall writer than Grisham, I can only describe this book as 'grishom-esque', i.e., a pre-screenplay. Southern gothic in a predictable pedestrian sort of way, the novel is a thriller about Adam Chase, who is, several years earlier, falsely charged with -- and later acquited of -- the murder of a local high school student. Chase returns to his small hometown, which has a long memory and still looks upon him with suspicion. Needless to say, his return coincides with the start of a series of violent crimes and he becomes suspect number one. Naturally, the fiancee he left behind also happens to be a local cop. This novel, is at best, mildly entertaining beach reading. Because when you can see the ending coming one-third of the way through the book, you should at least be sipping a margarita. A bit of a post-script: I should add that I read this book after having finished \"On Chesil Beach\" by Ian McEwan. Perhaps this was unfair to Mr. Hart, as McEwan is a fabulous, almost sublime, writer, with a delicate touch. ...more Why am I just now discovering this author? This book was a real page turner. I am anxious to discuss it with other book lovers at the Troy Community Center on June 1. I will definitely be checking out some of his other books...Iron House, The Last Child and Redemtion Road for sure. I have created a new shelf b/c of this book. My central response after finishing it is a clear \"Ugh!\" This book, if the cover can be believed (has propaganda reached the level now where even book covers of fictional novels sport blatant lies?), won an Edgar Award. I believe this only if it won in the category of \"Standard Red-blooded Privileged White American Male Makes Attempt At Literature.\" Or in the category of \"Literature For Upper-Class Men Of Conservative Patriarchal Western Cultures.\" I w I have created a new shelf b/c of this book. My central response after finishing it is a clear \"Ugh!\" This book, if the cover can be believed (has propaganda reached the level now where even book covers of fictional novels sport blatant lies?), won an Edgar Award. I believe this only if it won in the category of \"Standard Red-blooded Privileged White American Male Makes Attempt At Literature.\" Or in the category of \"Literature For Upper-Class Men Of Conservative Patriarchal Western Cultures.\" I would like to give it less than 3 stars, however if you are simply looking for a book written/put-together competently enough to to be engrossing and let you shut out the outside world for awhile then this book will do that. I say that with the caveat that you are able to get past intermittent blasts of great annoyance and are one who is able to turn off the analytical part of the brain while reading. There is some good writing here and there are some good themes however the essence of the two categories I stated above is an ever-present backdrop. Not heavy-handed but clear and present; you know, like the danger. And the phenomenon of actually attempting to write literature through the entitled, self-righteous perspective of the most powerful, catered-to demographic in our culture is somewhat interesting & educational in and of itself. I can see why the male dominated-world of publishing loves this author. I am not a fan, as you may have surmised, but he seems to sincerely have a love for writing and I can respect that. What I don't respect is the choice made by whichever group decided this merited the award. At least Tana French, another Edgar award-winner, is by comparison (even with her stupid endings and character destruction) still clearly an exceptional writer with fresh perspectives. This novel suffers from a limited perspective to the point of making the reader feel a bit suffocated. Ugh. ...more John Hart's sophomore novel is hearty Southern Gothic fare, lush and lyrical, seething with a sense of injustice, a barely controlled rage. At it's centre is Adam Chase, an angry young man with plenty of reason to be angry. He had a tough upbringing, then was falsely accused of murder as a teenager, then saw his father side with his stepmother, who testified for the prosecution, over his own son. Banished to New York City following his acquittal, Adam returns to his North Carolina roots followin John Hart's sophomore novel is hearty Southern Gothic fare, lush and lyrical, seething with a sense of injustice, a barely controlled rage. At it's centre is Adam Chase, an angry young man with plenty of reason to be angry. He had a tough upbringing, then was falsely accused of murder as a teenager, then saw his father side with his stepmother, who testified for the prosecution, over his own son. Banished to New York City following his acquittal, Adam returns to his North Carolina roots following a cryptic phone call from an old friend. Despite the verdict, suspicions still swirl, and his hometown doesn't exactly welcome the prodigal son with open arms. The victim was a local football star, and many still think that Adam Chase got away with murder. It certainly doesn't help that Adam's father is a lone holdout as local landowners look to cash in, wanting to sell their land at big profits for the construction of a nuclear power plant. Or that the ex-girlfriend he left behind is now a cop. Or that his friend who phoned him has disappeared. When bodies start appearing, suspicion turns to the man the town thinks got away with murder. Hart delivers a compelling tale that engages through its deep characterisation and spider-webbed character relationships as much as through plot twists or action. Hart has little need for ticking clocks or other genre shortcuts, instead the drama and thrills are organic, arising from the characters and their choices and mis-steps. There is plenty of action, and lots going on to keep the pages turning, all with a sense of depth, complexity, and authenticity. Hart's prose is lush and lyrical. DOWN RIVER is a literary thriller of the highest order, but a caveat: it won't be for everyone. Read full review here: http://kiwicrime.blogspot.co.uk/2016/... ...more Adam Case returns to his home town in Rowan County, North Carolina five years after being found not guilty of murder. One of the reasons for leaving home was that the main prosecution witness against him was his step mother. He was also saddened because his father didn't take his side. Adam's former girlfriend, Robin Alexander is now a detective on the local police department and still cares for him. No sooner has Adam arrived in town then he is beaten by Zeb Faith and two others. The message is c Adam Case returns to his home town in Rowan County, North Carolina five years after being found not guilty of murder. One of the reasons for leaving home was that the main prosecution witness against him was his step mother. He was also saddened because his father didn't take his side. Adam's former girlfriend, Robin Alexander is now a detective on the local police department and still cares for him. No sooner has Adam arrived in town then he is beaten by Zeb Faith and two others. The message is clear, Adam is not welcome in town and many townsfolk want his father to sell his land because if he did sell, surrounding land would increase in value based on a possible land development proposed for the area. This is much more than a mystery novel. I feel that Hart may be influenced by the fellow North Carolian, Charles Frazier, author of \"Cold Mountain.\" There are similiar detailed character descriptions and care for the man of integrity who will continue his search against all odds. Both Inman of \"Cold Mountain\" and Case of this story have that trait. In addition, Inman's love, Ada, and Case's sister, Miriam have a similarity in that fate seems to deal them a setback. It's how they deal with it that make the books different. Wonderful story. Deserving of the Edgar Award for best mystery in 2008. ...more I really enjoyed King of Lies a lot, and was under the impression that Hart gets better with each novel. I lasted 84 pages before giving up in exasperation. I'll use some spoiler tags even though they occur early and are pretty minor: (view spoiler) [ I could not buy into no one giving the guy the benefit of the doubt. So he was acquitted of a crime for which it seemed only circumstantial evidence and his stepmother's word were against him, yet it seems everyone still thinks he got away with murder. I really enjoyed King of Lies a lot, and was under the impression that Hart gets better with each novel. I lasted 84 pages before giving up in exasperation. I'll use some spoiler tags even though they occur early and are pretty minor: (view spoiler) [ I could not buy into no one giving the guy the benefit of the doubt. So he was acquitted of a crime for which it seemed only circumstantial evidence and his stepmother's word were against him, yet it seems everyone still thinks he got away with murder. Then he's suspected of rape (after a poorly written encounter with the victim) and even after the victim is hugging him in the hospital, they STILL doubt his innocence. It was after they cuffed him at the meth lab farm (when it was obvious he was not the criminal at large here) that I slammed the book shut with an \"ARRRRGH!!!\" (hide spoiler) ] Worst book I started this year and by far the biggest disappointment I've had in an author in a long time. ...more Won the Edgar, huh? I agree with the review that said it was like a movie starring Ashley Judd. Totally, right on, absolutely. Much of his language is really nice, and there are some terrific characterizations, but it really seemed like he just worked so damn hard at making it Southern, rather than having it flow like it should. but, it killed an evening when I couldn't sleep, so I added a star for that. If I still worked in a public library I would recommend it to mystery fans but I wouldn't RAVE Won the Edgar, huh? I agree with the review that said it was like a movie starring Ashley Judd. Totally, right on, absolutely. Much of his language is really nice, and there are some terrific characterizations, but it really seemed like he just worked so damn hard at making it Southern, rather than having it flow like it should. but, it killed an evening when I couldn't sleep, so I added a star for that. If I still worked in a public library I would recommend it to mystery fans but I wouldn't RAVE about it, you know? :) ...more Down River's protagonist, Adam Chase, returns to his southern home after a five year exile, following his an acquittal of murder charges. Adam and his family are pariahs: his father, a wealthy farmer with substantial land holdings is resisting the power company's attempt to acquire land to build a plant. This novel centers around Adam's family and their friendships. I enjoyed the novel and the tension as bodies continue to pile up, with many thinking Adam is the culprit. I think the comparisons Down River's protagonist, Adam Chase, returns to his southern home after a five year exile, following his an acquittal of murder charges. Adam and his family are pariahs: his father, a wealthy farmer with substantial land holdings is resisting the power company's attempt to acquire land to build a plant. This novel centers around Adam's family and their friendships. I enjoyed the novel and the tension as bodies continue to pile up, with many thinking Adam is the culprit. I think the comparisons to Grisham are unfair -- similar to Greg Iles. ...more This was an excellent book! I liked The King of Lies, but this far surpassed it. The King of Lies was wordy and not tightly writtn. Hart really worked on tightening up his writing and did a great job on this one! I can't wait for the third book. I absolutely could not put this down. The suspense started at the beginning and continued through the whole book, not ever letting up. Read this one! This gets two stars instead of one only because I was entertained for the short term. It only took me two days to finish it, and it was entertaining. Like a movie, starring Ashley Judd, that I might watch on tv someday a few years after it hits the theaters.... 3.5 A compelling story, a mystery, suspense, a family\u2026Adam Chase returns to his family after five years of exile, imposed by his father. He is not welcomed by family or his lover, as he searches for the friend, a childhood and high school mate who has called him back, asking for his help. The author states, \"I write about families.\" It is true that he does this. He has an eye for the family drama, the family secrets, the pain and angst that almost obliterate the small joys: the river, the memory and A compelling story, a mystery, suspense, a family\u2026Adam Chase returns to his family after five years of exile, imposed by his father. He is not welcomed by family or his lover, as he searches for the friend, a childhood and high school mate who has called him back, asking for his help. The author states, \"I write about families.\" It is true that he does this. He has an eye for the family drama, the family secrets, the pain and angst that almost obliterate the small joys: the river, the memory and feel of the land, the sun, the forests. This is a family anchored in the land; and perhaps that land is its only salvation, it's only place of healing for the raw wounds of the past, and of the present that reveals the past. There are characters with great emotion. Some, like Adam, play their emotional cards close, while acknowledging their own feelings. Others unload their hatred everywhere. Adam is admirable, even with his mistakes. He is also a man of action, and his action propels the reader through the mystery. But, even when a mystery is solved, there is the family\u2014poised for the healing that will not come easy. The author illustrates the truth that a family does not experience its life in a linear fashion. There are rapids, eddies, and stagnant places that only move with the floods of life. There may be times when a family floats along in the sun, but there are also times when a family has a flash, a rush, a trial of inundation. The family members each cope and make the story real for the reader. A rewarding read. ...more (4) This book is the most amazing look at family dynamics, dysfunction or whatever you want to call it that you may ever pick up. A terrific thriller from the first page to the last. A great protagonist in Adam Chase, and almost all the rest of the incredible supporting cast is family. Small town North Carolina with crazy ass real world problems and layers of the onion being peeled back in the most entertaining way. I need to read some more of this guy! I would give this 2.5 stars. It was ok and parts were good. But overall it wasn't great. The characters were just ok and each had a zillion problems to the point of ridiculousness. It was a bit hard to determine \"who done it\" since so many of them were screwed up! Big build ups of all these issues and then the character would fizzle out. When you finally figure out the killer\u2026.it's a let-down. Once again this author was formulaic and just tried to put too much into the story instead of building I would give this 2.5 stars. It was ok and parts were good. But overall it wasn't great. The characters were just ok and each had a zillion problems to the point of ridiculousness. It was a bit hard to determine \"who done it\" since so many of them were screwed up! Big build ups of all these issues and then the character would fizzle out. When you finally figure out the killer\u2026.it's a let-down. Once again this author was formulaic and just tried to put too much into the story instead of building character development and letting the story unfold. I can see that there is a target audience for writing like this. It has a good rating. I just like a more believable story. This is the third book I've read by this author and The Last Child is his best by far, in my opinion. ...more I like this author, John Hart, and his books. He speaks my language. This is the 2nd novel of his that I have read. He just reels me in like a big fish. The plot and the characters were well thought out. I started this book yesterday and kept wondering when I would have time to finish it. So I kissed my family goodbye as they went off to Grandma's house and then I settled in and finished it. I wasn't disappointed. It was worth the read. Even though I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, I will say, th I like this author, John Hart, and his books. He speaks my language. This is the 2nd novel of his that I have read. He just reels me in like a big fish. The plot and the characters were well thought out. I started this book yesterday and kept wondering when I would have time to finish it. So I kissed my family goodbye as they went off to Grandma's house and then I settled in and finished it. I wasn't disappointed. It was worth the read. Even though I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, I will say, that I liked Iron House a little better. This one had a lot of threads unwinding at once, but thankfully, it was all reigned in at the end. ...more Ooof, I felt like the author was trying just a little too much. He was close to being good sometimes, and then he would throw in some line that made me cringe a little. I know he also had a lot of drama going on with his main character, and that required a lot of other characters to keep the drama going, but I think he was juggling a few too many. Maybe we could have cut out a few of the bad guys, like maybe the judge? And I understand Jamie and Dolf were serving purposes as red herrings, but th Ooof, I felt like the author was trying just a little too much. He was close to being good sometimes, and then he would throw in some line that made me cringe a little. I know he also had a lot of drama going on with his main character, and that required a lot of other characters to keep the drama going, but I think he was juggling a few too many. Maybe we could have cut out a few of the bad guys, like maybe the judge? And I understand Jamie and Dolf were serving purposes as red herrings, but they both soooo obviously did not do any of the crimes that I felt like they weren't as necesary either, especially Jamie. I can see some people really liking this book, but for me, I felt like, Meeeehhhhh, almost the entire time. ...more This is the second book I've read by John Hart and its probably better than \"the king of lies\". This author knows so well how to develop his characters and his descriptive analysis of each scene puts the reader immersed into the scene. This is the saga of a young man aquitted of murder in his town and the results and the discoveries he makes when he returns five years later. Mind boggling. Could not put this book down until I was finished. The 325 pages could not have been written better. Amen. I thought this book was absolutely wonderful. It was a nice paced mystery involving family relationships that was similar to Mystic River for me. I admit that the boring cover turned me away from it for awhile but that is why one should not judge a book by it's cover, of course! I will definitely read more of John Hart and look forward to THE KING OF LIES and his new release THE LAST CHILD. I'm going to give this one 4 stars even though I just started it... just discovered this author, have never read from him before.... so far, the story has intrigued me from the first page.... going to relax tonight and read some more... finished the story today, great read... loved his writing style... going to pick up another one of his stories (Sam's Club had the soft covers at 6 & change... ) My first book by this author. It was excellent...immensely enjoyable with a fine sense of place and full of local color. I loved the way the author uses (what I assume to be) colloquial expressions and narratives throughout this very Southern novel. He's a good storyteller. I'll have to find other John Hart books to read. I fell down the rabbit hole. I didn't want to eat or work or sleep. The characters were real and raw. I fell in love with this book until the very end when I predicted the ending but thought I was wrong. That was the one flaw for me, but otherwise I loved it. This could have been really good, but it ended up being too melodramatic for my taste. Every scene is written for maximum emotional impact and that gets tiring after awhile. Did not disappoint. I am fast becoming a die-hard fan, having read 3 of his novels now, starting with his most current, Redemption Road, then his first novel, King of Lies (Edgar Award), and now this his 2nd, Down River. His protagonists are usually men unjustly accused of something, trying to prove themselves, and/or are mending fractured relationships and leading complex lives uncovering secrets within their dysfunctional families. Normally I don't like reading about dysfunctional families, fi Did not disappoint. I am fast becoming a die-hard fan, having read 3 of his novels now, starting with his most current, Redemption Road, then his first novel, King of Lies (Edgar Award), and now this his 2nd, Down River. His protagonists are usually men unjustly accused of something, trying to prove themselves, and/or are mending fractured relationships and leading complex lives uncovering secrets within their dysfunctional families. Normally I don't like reading about dysfunctional families, finding them depressing often times, but somehow this author's writing just reels you right into the characters, and you've got to know more. Awesome! Each can be read as a stand alone, although this novel took place in the same locale as King of Lies, in rural North Carolina, in the same county, even. The characters are all different and not related to previous characters in other novels. The protagonist in this one is Adam. After a 5 year absence from his home town and estrangement from his family, he is called back to town as a favor to a friend that stood by him back when no one else would. When he finds that this friend has been murdered, apparently right after calling Adam to come see him, a pandora's box of secrets are waiting to be unravelled. You may think you have things figured out, but don't be surprised if you're wrong. Unexpected twists are the norm for this author and this is no exception. I found it hard to put down, and the ending left an open door, but will satisfy the entourage of fans that Hart is acquiring. A strong 4.5 stars for this Edgar-winning author. Highly recommended. ...more 3.5 rounded down. This is an incredibly quick-paced book so readers have to get right on board with knowing who's related to whom (and as soon as you do it changes) I was confused at the beginning, thinking that Adam, Robin the detective and Grace, the neighbor girl was in a menage-a-tois. I really couldn't keep where Adam was sleeping at nights straight, and I realized that sometimes \"sleeping\" was just sleeping, nothing else. The phrase, if you want something done right give it to a busy perso 3.5 rounded down. This is an incredibly quick-paced book so readers have to get right on board with knowing who's related to whom (and as soon as you do it changes) I was confused at the beginning, thinking that Adam, Robin the detective and Grace, the neighbor girl was in a menage-a-tois. I really couldn't keep where Adam was sleeping at nights straight, and I realized that sometimes \"sleeping\" was just sleeping, nothing else. The phrase, if you want something done right give it to a busy person applies here--but really, a favored son returns home after FIVE years and finds bodies and missing people, blows away smoke screens and solves decades-old family secrets within, what 72 hours? Why bother having a police force? Just have a family reunion and that town would be cleaned up but good! Of course, you'll have to handle all the baggage those family members would bring. ...more", "Title": "Down River"},
