{"Comments": "We saw <---A>Terry Pratchett</---A> at Town Hall Tuesday. He\u2019s frail compared to the man I saw at Kane Hall back in the 1990s, but still sharp. He took questions,<---M> and one</---M>, predictably enough, was which of his characters he was most like. \u201cIn my heart I know it\u2019s Rincewind,\u201d he said, grinning. But then he continued in a more thoughtful vein: \u201cTwice I\u2019ve kneeled in front of the Queen and she\u2019s swished a very large sword over my head and fortunately, she\u2019s missed every time. When I stood up a knight, a ferrier, We saw Terry Pratchett at Town Hall Tuesday. He\u2019s frail compared to the man I saw at Kane Hall back in the 1990s, but still sharp. He took questions, and one, predictably enough, was which of his characters he was most like. \u201cIn my heart I know it\u2019s Rincewind,\u201d he said, grinning. But then he continued in a more thoughtful vein: \u201cTwice I\u2019ve kneeled in front of the Queen and she\u2019s swished a very large sword over my head and fortunately, she\u2019s missed every time. When I stood up a knight, a ferrier, a blacksmith, a soldier in the Crimean War, all my ancestors stood up with me. . . . and you find yourself wondering about your roots and arguing with prime ministers. . \u201cAnd that\u2019s the part of me that\u2019s Vimesy.\u201d This man who more or less accidentally became part of the power structure.<---F> A peer of the realm</---F>. Married to duchess who is on first names basis with most of the powerful since childhood. In this book, Vimes more or less accidentally takes on some of the ways that the powerful stay powerful, both as someone who believes in law that transcends the local power structure, and as a part of the power structure that just happens to be outside of his jurisdiction. It\u2019s good for him he\u2019s got friends in high places. Also in low ones. This isn\u2019t the sharpest Discworld book ever, and there are those who will not appreciate its earnestness. Vimes goes on vacation and more or less accidentally takes on the triangle trade. Unambiguously hero work. It is unabashedly one of the darker Discworld books. Not darkness made visible, though The Summoning Dark does whisper dark and helpful things in Vimes's ears. Horrible things happened in the gaps; things the author darkly references but does not explicate. There are unspoken parts of the book that make me squirm. Vimes is more of the Great White Savior than I was entirely comfortable with. The villains are also mostly off screen, which is somewhat dissatisfying. One of the things I like about the Discworld books is that the villains are people too. Maybe this time Pratchett could not bear to share their perspective. Or maybe he didn\u2019t want to give us the comfort of really despising them by keeping them vague and mostly off screen. It felt a little like the pieces that were left over from Unseen Academicals. Like Pratchett is doing his best to bring in all the despised races of fantasy world and show that they\u2019re human too. All parts of ourselves we\u2019ve done wrong by. Like the man said, if humans could fall, why couldn\u2019t orcs rise, after all? Or goblins? It\u2019s quite utopian in the resolution. Mostly utopian. Except for the realpolitique that very few people are actually punished. Though the spiders might help. It had one of the best lines I\u2019ve read in a long time, spoken by the Watch\u2019s forensic accountant, A. E. Pessmial, discussing how people can come to do terrible things. \u201c'I'm sorry. I know that I am a small, weak man, but I have amassed a large library; I dream of dangerous places.'\" Pokes quite nicely at Jane Austen*, though not as sharply as Unseen Academicals poked at Tolkien. May have been partially inspired by how all the amazing things that her British Empire was doing happened in the silences. *** *It goes much deeper than this. But see, e.g. Vimes\u2019s lack of interest in other people\u2019s children was limiteless, but he could count. \u201cAnd the last one?\u201d \u201cOh, Hermoine, she may be difficult as she has rather scandalized the family, at least in their opinion.\u201d \u201cHow?\u201d \u201cShe\u2019s a lumberjack.\u201d Vimes thought for a moment and said, \u201cWell, dear, it is a truth universally acknowledged that a man with a lot of wood must be in want of a wife who can handle a great big--\u201d Lady Sybil interrupted sharply: \u201c<---C>Sam Vimes</---C>, I believe that you intend to make an indelicate remark?\u201d Something Austen could not abide. Good times. ...more Commander Sam Vimes of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch and his wife Sybil take Young Sam and go on vacation to Sybil's ancestral lands in the country. Fortunately for the Commander, crime soon rears its ugly head and he soon finds himself ensnared in a web of lies, smuggling, and murder! Can Vimes get to the bottom of things before he finds himself at the bottom of the river known as Old Treachery? I always forget how good Terry Pratchett is during the year or years between new books. To the outsider Commander Sam Vimes of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch and his wife Sybil take Young Sam and go on vacation to Sybil's ancestral lands in the country. Fortunately for the Commander, crime soon rears its ugly head and he soon finds himself ensnared in a web of lies, smuggling, and murder! Can Vimes get to the bottom of things before he finds himself at the bottom of the river known as Old Treachery? I always forget how good Terry Pratchett is during the year or years between new books. To the outsider, it would be easy to dismiss the Discworld books as silly fantasy novels. While they are silly, the Discworld books always deal with real issues as well. In this case, slavery and drugs. <+++>Snuff</+++> raises questions of what it means to be sentient, human rights, and the evils of looking the other way when something bad happens. Pratchett's writing reminds me of P.G. Wodehouse's more with each passing book. I lost count of the clever lines. I even noticed reference to Tombstone (\"I don't think I'm going to let you arrest me today.\"), Deadwood, and Jane Austen. The characters are what drive the Discworld stories. Good thing, because they could easily degenerate into mindless silliness otherwise. Sam Vimes and his relationships with his family and the people of Ramkim were what made the story. Vimes' pep-talks with Feenie about what it means to be a copper, his caring tolerance for his son's fascination with poo of all kinds, and his feelings toward the goblins showed why Pratchett is more than just a fantasy writer. The plot itself was pretty good. A goblin is murdered while Sam Vimes is on vacation and he starts pulling at threads to find out why, leading him to discover smuggling and corruption. The disgusting religion of the goblins is explored and, by the end, society is changed. Goblins haven't been touched upon very much in the Discworld series so far and I'd say Pratchett did a great job developing them in <+++>Snuff</+++>. I can't pretend this book was perfect, though. The last fifty pages dragged a bit. That's about the only gripe I have, actually. It's the best Discworld book in years and if Pratchett doesn't manage to write another City Watch book, it'll be a good way to end things. ...more Terry Pratchett has a way with words. Like the children\u2019s entertainer with the balloons, he can take a familiar phrase and with a few deft twists create some new plaything better than all the contents of your party bag. To do that trick once or twice is good. To sustain it throughout a whole book is remarkable. To keep it fresh into the 39th volume of a series deserves a knighthood. Snuff is Sir Terry Pratchett\u2019s 50th novel. That\u2019s a lot! It\u2019s also the most recent foray into Discworld series, a l Terry Pratchett has a way with words. Like the children\u2019s entertainer with the balloons, he can take a familiar phrase and with a few deft twists create some new plaything better than all the contents of your party bag. To do that trick once or twice is good. To sustain it throughout a whole book is remarkable. To keep it fresh into the 39th volume of a series deserves a knighthood. Snuff is Sir Terry Pratchett\u2019s 50th novel. That\u2019s a lot! It\u2019s also the most recent foray into Discworld series, a literary phenomenon that has been ongoing for 28 years now. Enough with the vital statistics though \u2013 is it any good? The story follows one of Discworld\u2019s best established characters, Commander Sam Vimes, out into fresh territory. With wife and son on hand, Vimes experiences for the first time a holiday in the countryside. The Ankh-Morpork police force supply most of the characters for this tale from a well-stocked inventory of favourites. Lord Vetinari makes a welcome appearance at the open and close of the book, and with his hidden hand setting events in motion it can safely be assumed that Commander Vimes will not be idle in his country idyll. Along with a murder mystery we\u2019re presented with various angles on the topic of poo, an interesting introduction to the goblin race and their peculiarities, and some wide-ranging social critique. It\u2019s not unusual for Pratchett to hold the Discworld up as a mirror in which he can satirise everything from the iniquitous to innocuous in our own world. In Snuff the critique is perhaps more heavy handed, the sentiments goodhearted rather than funny. We learn that oppressing minorities (goblins) is bad and that the class system along with the uneven distribution of wealth are neither big nor clever. I know these things and would have preferred a little more about how the goblins bottle a lifetime\u2019s supply of snot. The main weakness in Snuff however is simply that its hero is so familiar to us, so capable, sturdy, so grown and set into his character over many books, that the story lacks tension. We know Commander Vimes will come through. We don\u2019t truly believe harm will befall his family. We expect the same man to walk out of the book as walked in. These issues with the book on the grand scale do not however change the fact that Snuff is continuously entertaining, line by excellent line, with all Pratchett\u2019s genius on display in the small scale. And his again he achieves the miracle of making you care about his creations. In the midst of all the funnies he can suddenly turn on the pathos and within moments the fate of a malodorous snot-bottling goblin will matter to you. Fans of the series will enjoy the romp with old Discworld friends and some feisty new additions. Anyone who isn\u2019t a fan should get a hold of one of the many entry-point books into this 39 novel masterwork (by all means start with number 1). And unless you were born without funny-bone you\u2019ll soon be roaming the Discworld with the rest of us. ---- My 4* rating is to some degree influenced by the following wind of this excellent series - the added value carried from earlier books by many of these characters can't be ignored. . ...more Enjoyed it immensely. Not the best Discworld book I've read. But whinging about this not being the Best Pratchett Book Evar is sort of like complaining that the diamond ring you've been given is only three/quarters of a carat. It's easily worth five stars. I was often amused, occasionally teary-eyed, and never bored. This is my first Discworld novel and it may be my last. Well, at least for a long while. Previously I\u2019ve read Pratchett\u2019s Nation, which I really enjoyed. This, however, just didn\u2019t do it for me. It is overflowing with so much humour that I thought it was too obvious and, at times, redundant. I did like the protagonist when I began reading, but towards the end I well and truly had had enough of him. The protagonist is very annoying I understand that the main crux of the character is the reason I f This is my first Discworld novel and it may be my last. Well, at least for a long while. Previously I\u2019ve read Pratchett\u2019s Nation, which I really enjoyed. This, however, just didn\u2019t do it for me. It is overflowing with so much humour that I thought it was too obvious and, at times, redundant. I did like the protagonist when I began reading, but towards the end I well and truly had had enough of him. The protagonist is very annoying I understand that the main crux of the character is the reason I found him frustrating. He is, in essence, a workaholic. There\u2019s nothing wrong with this, I\u2019m one too. But, it bordered on ridiculous. Perhaps that\u2019s the point. I just found him a very frustrating, and quite frankly, as flat character. There is nothing beyond him other than his job. He is simply the commander of the city watch no matter wherever he goes or whoever he is with. He goes on holiday, and he is still doing his job. He finds a crime trail, after a game of fisticuffs, and follows it up. No more, no less. Indeed, he peruses it with relentless enthusiasm that drives his wife mad. But, he doesn\u2019t seem to get anywhere. Well, at least for a long while. The narration seems to wonder off along with the story. I just wasn\u2019t sure where a lot of it was going. I really struggled to get into his investigation, which I do think was because of Pratchett\u2019s writing that continuously seemed to venture away from the point. Perhaps, again, that is the point of what he was doing. But either way it made it really hard for me to follow the plot if this book. A lot of it felt like perpetual ramblings. Where is he going with this? Pratchett goes on some awfully long winded tangents in the middle of his writing. I found myself getting quite lost at some points, and I just couldn\u2019t see the relevance of certain points which felt, to me, like a random train of thought shoved into the writing. This made it difficult for me to focus on the main plot of the story. Perhaps its Pratchett\u2019s style that I don\u2019t get on with or perhaps it is this particular novel that overwhelmed me. I really don\u2019t know, but the result of it is that I have no intention of picking up another book by this author in a long, long, time. Suffice to say, I really didn\u2019t enjoy this book. The lack of chapters also contributed to this. This, of course, is only a minor thing but it did annoy me greatly. I like to finish reading at the end of a chapter, and not in the middle of narrative. I know this may sound silly, but I simple cannot stop reading in the middle of a length of story. I had to read beyond what I normally would to find what I though was an adequate break within the story. I real don\u2019t understand the authorial decision behind the lack of chapters. To my mind it served no purpose, and discouraged me further. Overall, this book was incredibly frustrating. I didn\u2019t like aspects of Pratchett\u2019s writing or the structure of the book. I do hope in the future, when I eventually pick up another Pratchett book, I don\u2019t have the same reaction because I really want to enjoy another one of his books. A despondent two stars P.S If from my review you think I should try a particular Discworld book then, please, don\u2019t hesitate to recommend. I did really want to enjoy this book but couldn\u2019t. If there is a Discworld book you think I\u2019ll get on with, I will try it in time. ...more #4 Favourite Read of 2012 \u201cLittle crimes breed big crimes. You smile at little crimes and then big crimes blow your head off.\u201d There was a PC game released back when a PC was still a relevant piece of computing technology going by the name of Discworld Noir , I only played it a little while before my machine gave up the ghost but I suspect that even a Discworld title called noir was not as dark at its heart as this novel. There's still an awful lot of humour to contend with but Sam Vimes is up aga #4 Favourite Read of 2012 \u201cLittle crimes breed big crimes. You smile at little crimes and then big crimes blow your head off.\u201d There was a PC game released back when a PC was still a relevant piece of computing technology going by the name of Discworld Noir , I only played it a little while before my machine gave up the ghost but I suspect that even a Discworld title called noir was not as dark at its heart as this novel. There's still an awful lot of humour to contend with but Sam Vimes is up against a darkness blacker than he's ever experienced before, both in terms of the case he stumbles upon on his vacation and the internal struggle of a good man trying not to do bad things. The fact that he is a famous detective only serves to highlight the noir qualities at hand. \u201c...smoke twisting amongst the lights and turning the air a desolate blue, the colour of dead hopes and lost chances.\u201d I shall not tell you the plot, it's filled with bad things happening to mostly good people and Sam Vimes does what he does best with an ensemble cast that grows by the minute. Young Sam is a growing boy and an essential part of any Sam Vimes story these days (as is Lady Vimes of course) and he meets his literary heroine in Miss Felicity Beedle whose book The World of Poo is now available for you and I to purchase. Goblins are the newest race of creature to be introduced to the Disc and provide a few new entertaining characters who I'm sure we'll be meeting again soon. My favourite however has to be Wilikins, the gentleman's gentleman, if ironing a shirt was a competition he'd no doubt ensure he won even if it required him to get up the previous morning and break the other participants fingers one by one. He's such a great character echoing the brilliant Kyril Bonfiglioli creation Jockstrap, that I think he deserves his own book, perhaps in the style of the \"Vimes in his youth\" story Night Watch ? This is the best and most enjoyable Discworld book in quite some time, I think perhaps you have to go back to Thud! before you come across anything quite like it in terms of completeness of vision, storytelling and literary heart, I don't think it's a coincidence that it too was a Sam Vimes book. I said it about Nation and the same is true here, if this book had been written by somebody else, not synonymous with the fantasy genre, awards would be raining down upon the author. Infact Pratchett has committed a double sin in writing in two of those \"dirty genres\" at the same time, crime and fantasy are not considered good sources of intelligent writing (and I'll be the first to admit that both genres are filled with absolute acres of shit that you must wade through to find the real gems,) but like the greats that have come before him (people like Georges Simenon , Jim Thompson and David Goodis on their good days) he is ignored as a talented writer of literature that dissects what it means to be human. A triumph of a novel and a return to form after the disappointment of Unseen Academicals . ...more Okay it's Pratchett, so the fact that it's good is a given. And yet... I think Pratchett has overmined the seam of 'oppressed species shows that they are as human as you or I'. And... I thought so when I read Unseen Academicals so to see him retread this ground again is a little disappointing. There is also some very clunky writing and a lot of characterization that seems very at odds with previous books. I found it hard not to read without thinking constantly about Pratchett's illness and wonderi Okay it's Pratchett, so the fact that it's good is a given. And yet... I think Pratchett has overmined the seam of 'oppressed species shows that they are as human as you or I'. And... I thought so when I read Unseen Academicals so to see him retread this ground again is a little disappointing. There is also some very clunky writing and a lot of characterization that seems very at odds with previous books. I found it hard not to read without thinking constantly about Pratchett's illness and wondering how much it was effecting his writing. None of this is to say that Snuff was anything but an enjoyable read and if the best of Discworld has already been written I'm still happy to read the lesser additions. ...more Pratchett's latest induced a fair few laughs, but felt structurally weak, even a tad disjointed. While Vimes still upholds the position of one of my favorite Discworld characters ever, his role was a tad overdone in an almost superhuman-ish fashion, which makes it harder to identify with the rugged, stubborn cob character I originally fell in love with. The whole Goblin rights issue seemed also like an infirmer repetition of Unseen Academicals' acceptance of Orcs, topped with one of the most uni Pratchett's latest induced a fair few laughs, but felt structurally weak, even a tad disjointed. While Vimes still upholds the position of one of my favorite Discworld characters ever, his role was a tad overdone in an almost superhuman-ish fashion, which makes it harder to identify with the rugged, stubborn cob character I originally fell in love with. The whole Goblin rights issue seemed also like an infirmer repetition of Unseen Academicals' acceptance of Orcs, topped with one of the most uninteresting villains I've seen in a while (including the one in I Shall Wear Midnight). Hence, three stars. Stephen Briggs's audio book reading was excellent, however. ...more 5/10 This is the lowest I\u2019ve rated a Discworld novel but I don\u2019t think it was really the worst Discworld novel I\u2019ve read. A combination of tiredness, lack of reading time and a story which didn\u2019t hook me made me find this a slow read and lacking in some of the finer points I\u2019ve come to enjoy in this series. The plot itself is the usual sort of affair for the Watch sub-series; a crime or crimes have been committed and it\u2019s up to the Watch to find out what\u2019s happening and tackle some prejudices alo 5/10 This is the lowest I\u2019ve rated a Discworld novel but I don\u2019t think it was really the worst Discworld novel I\u2019ve read. A combination of tiredness, lack of reading time and a story which didn\u2019t hook me made me find this a slow read and lacking in some of the finer points I\u2019ve come to enjoy in this series. The plot itself is the usual sort of affair for the Watch sub-series; a crime or crimes have been committed and it\u2019s up to the Watch to find out what\u2019s happening and tackle some prejudices along the way. This time the difference is that Vimes is on holiday in the countryside so becomes a fish out of water. The comedy felt forced in places, jokes which seem to have been done before or seem very similar to previous books. Vimes also felt a little forced in the way he acted whereas in previous novels it came off naturally and made for fun reading whereas here it was a little bit more eye-rolling. The plot didn\u2019t interest me as it\u2019s been done before here in much better ways. The last couple of novels in this sub-series have really stood out whereas this is already fading into the vague mists of my old age memory bank. It feels a bit of a shame that the sub-series ended on this novel as I\u2019ve had nothing but high praise for the majority of them. There won\u2019t be any more Vimes et al but I would have thought that sometime in the distant future I would pick these up again as they are fun entertaining reads. I reckon reading this one again would elicit completely different emotions but that is for future Richard to deal with. There are still plenty of untouched Discworld novels for me to go at though and I look forward to picking some of the other sub-series up. Whilst not the best in my eyes it\u2019s clearly a very well written novel that will be enjoyed by many. It just didn\u2019t work for this grumpy reader this time around. If you like this try: \u201cMort\u201d by Terry Pratchett ...more Even battling early-onset Alzheimer's, Pratchet is as good as any 10 novelists fighting ennui and indigestion. \"Snuff\" is the latest City Watch story in the Discworld series. The only other story that rivals it is the witches and I still prefer Commander Sam Vimes. \"Snuff\" is as good as any book in the series. The City Watch series is the best set of police procedurals ever written. The emotional realism and detail is beyond compare despite the fact that the aforementioned watch consists, in add Even battling early-onset Alzheimer's, Pratchet is as good as any 10 novelists fighting ennui and indigestion. \"Snuff\" is the latest City Watch story in the Discworld series. The only other story that rivals it is the witches and I still prefer Commander Sam Vimes. \"Snuff\" is as good as any book in the series. The City Watch series is the best set of police procedurals ever written. The emotional realism and detail is beyond compare despite the fact that the aforementioned watch consists, in addition to humans, of dwarves, trolls, golems, vampires, werewolves, a Nac Mac Feegle and at least one Igor. The way the series speaks to a contemporary reader on the subjects of fairness, violence, politics, power and poverty is augmented by the milieu and casts of characters. There is, in a very real way, very little difference between law enforcement in London or New York and that in Ankh-Morpork. Immigrants, the rich, criminals and the very many people who actually work for a damned living make the story line, the series and this book just fucking great, in a way a great work of art that is loved and not merely appreciated always does. It is far from incidental that Sam Vimes is a good man, who actually actively wrestles with his consciousness, who is aware of the life he lives and what he means in it and who loves his wife. The morality of Vimes is earned, and therefore never smug or contrived. Sam Vimes is one of those characters you wish you could meet and whose existence makes you wish to be better, braver, smarter, funnier, tougher and more moral. ...more It is a fortunate life, one where you grew up with Terry Pratchett as one of your fathers. Where, all the way back to a 12-year-old you picking up Faust Eric , you got reminded that what makes you human (or humane, if you decide to dump the speciesist lingo ;) is your choices, not your origins. Where you're made to laugh at--and more importantly, with --the follies of thinking and acting of folks you've either encountered already or soon will. (Sometimes in the mirror, too.) Where, when you sto It is a fortunate life, one where you grew up with Terry Pratchett as one of your fathers. Where, all the way back to a 12-year-old you picking up Faust Eric , you got reminded that what makes you human (or humane, if you decide to dump the speciesist lingo ;) is your choices, not your origins. Where you're made to laugh at--and more importantly, with --the follies of thinking and acting of folks you've either encountered already or soon will. (Sometimes in the mirror, too.) Where, when you stop laughing, you're stirred to think what it takes to make those defining choices, in the face of unkindly odds, or foolish thinking and acting. Where, as both you and the books grow up, you're stirred to feel what those characters people go through. For a writer who began as a wry parodist, making you feel is an astonishing feat. Snuff made me feel. It made me do all of the other things, too, but what will last longest (just like in Nation ) is the feeling. The fear and helplessness of a people that has been denied rights--or, for that matter, recognition. The anger building up inside Samuel Vimes at another injustice left to fester and foul us. The (ethereal :D) beauty of Tears of the Mushrooms' performance ... how can music really work such miracles, connect us in such ways? Any suggestions, Lord Vetinary, sir? And here's the brightest part: Pratchett aten't dead yet. And although we live in a world of flux, I believe he won't be for at least another generation of readers, or three. P.S. from 13 March 2015: Avantasia probably put it best: Dreamers come and go But the dream's forever ...more Every author has the right to produce the book he or she has inside. It doesn't have to meet reader expectations or desires. What disappoints one reader will delight another. The only responsibility a writer has is to the work. Other Terry Pratchett fans have told me that SNUFF is wonderful; they loved it. I can't argue with that. All I can say is, if the rating is based on whether or not I, me, myself liked the book, the answer is no. I didn't. Is Pratchett's signature sideways humor almost totall Every author has the right to produce the book he or she has inside. It doesn't have to meet reader expectations or desires. What disappoints one reader will delight another. The only responsibility a writer has is to the work. Other Terry Pratchett fans have told me that SNUFF is wonderful; they loved it. I can't argue with that. All I can say is, if the rating is based on whether or not I, me, myself liked the book, the answer is no. I didn't. Is Pratchett's signature sideways humor almost totally missing from this book, or am I so used to it, it doesn't strike me sideways anymore? Is he writing (perhaps understandably) darker these days? I used to read Pratchett for escape. SNUFF is dark enough to be a news broadcast. Mr. Pratchett doesn't owe me a vacation. I'm not claiming that he does. This book might be your cup of tea. It wasn't mine. ...more With the news of Terry Pratchett's declining health, it feels as if each new Discworld novel could be his last. It also made you want to savor each entry a bit more. Unfortunately, the last couple of entries haven't been quite among Pratchett's best. Thankfully, Snuff is a return to form for Pratchett and while I hope we get more, if this is the last Discworld entry we get, it will be a solid, entertaining high note for the series to go out on. As I've said in other Pratchett reviews, Pratchett With the news of Terry Pratchett's declining health, it feels as if each new Discworld novel could be his last. It also made you want to savor each entry a bit more. Unfortunately, the last couple of entries haven't been quite among Pratchett's best. Thankfully, Snuff is a return to form for Pratchett and while I hope we get more, if this is the last Discworld entry we get, it will be a solid, entertaining high note for the series to go out on. As I've said in other Pratchett reviews, Pratchett makes looking witty, funny and satirical look easy when he's on the top of his game. And he does that hear. The story of Sam Vines being forced to take a vacation to the countryside with his wife only to find a foul plot unfolding there is well done and keeps the story moving. Part of what makes it work is the constant running gag of how husbands have to defer to their wives on whether they enjoy consuming certain things like bacon, cigars and other products that may shorten the lifespan but are still eminently enjoyable. Add in a bit of social commentary and you've got the makings of one of the better Discworld novels in recent memory. ...more Terry Pratchett is, perhaps, the world's best humanist. Terry Pratchett should also win the Nobel and Booker prizes, but odds are, he never will. But at least, the Queen as knighted him. Snuff is Pratchett's latest novel, an installment in the Discworld, and features Sam Vimes, Pratchett's everyman copper hero and one of his alter-egos. Forced to go on vaccation at his wife's estate, Sam discovers there has been a murder. And any follower of the Discworld knows what that means. Snuff is more in the Terry Pratchett is, perhaps, the world's best humanist. Terry Pratchett should also win the Nobel and Booker prizes, but odds are, he never will. But at least, the Queen as knighted him. Snuff is Pratchett's latest novel, an installment in the Discworld, and features Sam Vimes, Pratchett's everyman copper hero and one of his alter-egos. Forced to go on vaccation at his wife's estate, Sam discovers there has been a murder. And any follower of the Discworld knows what that means. Snuff is more in the tradition of Small Gods and Night Watch . In other words, it is a more serious Discworld novel with the message heavily at the forefront. It is also a darker Discworld novel and far better than Small Gods . Like all Discworld works, Pratchett refers to other standards of literautre - (Mr Pratchett, Sir Terry, I'm really sorry, but I do think some of what you write is literature) - in particular Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice and Mansfield Park , but being Pratchett he puts his own twists on things. Oh, and besides the murder, Vimes (calling him Sam just feels wrong) has to deal with son, Young Sam, who is in the poo stage of life - and he really wants elephant poo because it goes dung. Pratchett's genius, his absolutely bloody genius, is his ability to deal not only in the commonplace but to make it's absurdities magical and to do so in such a way that as you are cracking up you are nodding your head. In many ways, Pratchett's characters are the most refreshing normal characters you will ever meet, even if they include a werewolf and a hero who thinks he is a dwarf. They are human, with the possible exceptation of Nobby. Vimes, for instance, is a carinig husband and father, and it is so nice to see a police officer or any central character for that matter, have one. Sybil has a large support role, and it is always nice to see Sybil and Sam work together. It's true that the pacing is a little slow in the beginning and towards the end. Yet in some ways, the story seems to call for that (like say the ending of The Return of the King ). Let me say, in this pre-presidential year, Ventarai for President. VP could be Vimes or Sybil. Wilkins could be head of the CIA, FBI, and Secret Service. He is so efficient. This book is a fine journey, a look at humanity with a well loved author and the friends that he has gifted the world with. If you haven't visited any of Pratchett's books, go and visit them now. That's a command. Mr, Sir, Pratchett, I'm not on the Booker or Nobel comittees. I don't have enough money to start a real prize. I, however, hereby award you the Lifetime Achivement Award for Writing also known as The Golden Banana Daiquiri. ...more about  of the way through and enjoying myself immensely. You'd have to be a real Sam Vimes fan I think though to truly \"get\" the book and to enjoy it as much as I am, it's classic Vimes and it shines a light on him away from Ankh and his job there. I know he's been away before, to Uberwald--but he was on official business at the time and here he's acting under his own steam even though he's justifying it! :D Willikins is brilliant, as is Sybil as ever and Young Sam is exactly how he should be--th about \u00be of the way through and enjoying myself immensely. You'd have to be a real Sam Vimes fan I think though to truly \"get\" the book and to enjoy it as much as I am, it's classic Vimes and it shines a light on him away from Ankh and his job there. I know he's been away before, to Uberwald--but he was on official business at the time and here he's acting under his own steam even though he's justifying it! :D Willikins is brilliant, as is Sybil as ever and Young Sam is exactly how he should be--that one has a career as Ankh-Morpork's Sherlock in a few years - he's a copper to his boots and has a much more inquiring mind. Vimes wants to know whodunnit, but Sam wants to know - yes, and what was the rope made of that helped dunnit? More when I've finished! ================== Ok - I've finished, and I've knocked a star off, because... Well, that was\u2026 interesting. 90% of the book was wonderful. There was so much to love: Sam, of course, not realising until right at the end that he\u2019d been micro managed\u2014AS USUAL, by Vetinari with a big dollop of help from Sybil, Sam\u2019s darkness and his real fear that it might take over, The Summoning Dark and the way it may\u2014or may not\u2014be living with Sam. Young Sam is just glorious and he made me tear up once or twice, he\u2019s a copper (or will possibly be, as essayel pointed out) Ankh\u2019s Sherlock in years to come) to his boots. He\u2019s going to have an Interesting Life, that\u2019s for sure. Lesbian couples, \u201cthe poo lady,\u201d marvellous snobby country people and honest country folk\u2026 so much to love. But\u2026 I felt that part of the book was simply MISSING. There is so much that is introduced and then left up in the air that all the way through I was expecting an explanation, and simply never got it. This isn\u2019t like Pratchett, he doesn\u2019t always expound everything about a people\u2014we\u2019ve learned much about trolls and dwarves and other races over the course of the books, but generally we are told What We Need To Know At the Time. And I didn\u2019t feel that we were told all we needed to know about the Goblins. I EXPECT a mystery and a half with Pratchett, things are usually vague in the beginning (like, for example in Hogfather where we are gradually given glimpses of events happening but much doesn\u2019t make sense until after the Tooth Fairy's house is breached.) But there are things in Snuff that are simply never explained\u2014other than \u201coh that\u2019s Goblin Magic\u201d or something. I didn\u2019t understand the correlation between smuggling Troll Drugs and tobacco and Goblin pots \u2013 unless the pot was put into the tobacco as a desperate measure like a message in a bottle? But then if that was the case, how did they think that they\u2019d be found? And I found the ending part to be\u2014odd. Rushed, and that\u2019s not something I\u2019ve accused Pratchett of before. I didn\u2019t really get what he and Sybil were doing, and why they had to do them seperately, and as for Vetinari\u2019s last talk with Vimes, it was SO Out of Character it seemed to be written by someone else. I guess I\u2019ll have to read it again, just in case i\u2019m being incredibly dim. ...more Yeah, so I\u2019m always excited to get a new Discworld, and particularly a new Vimes. But\u2026 So it\u2019s about Vimes going on vacation, which for him means foiling a goblin trafficking ring. And I think I like Pratchett better when he\u2019s making fun of systems and institutions \u2013 the Death books, Making Money etc. Because sometimes he winds up and he pitches at some great evil, and I have to cover my eyes for a little bit. I had a lot of problems with this one, most of which boil down to how the book wasn\u2019t a Yeah, so I\u2019m always excited to get a new Discworld, and particularly a new Vimes. But\u2026 So it\u2019s about Vimes going on vacation, which for him means foiling a goblin trafficking ring. And I think I like Pratchett better when he\u2019s making fun of systems and institutions \u2013 the Death books, Making Money etc. Because sometimes he winds up and he pitches at some great evil, and I have to cover my eyes for a little bit. I had a lot of problems with this one, most of which boil down to how the book wasn\u2019t actually all that sure that the people being enslaved deserved consideration and compassion. It thought it was sure, and Vimes carried the banner pretty damn well. But the shape of it, the rhetorical flourishes . . . like, just one thing, we had to have a goblin musical prodigy, you see, because if a goblin can play the most complex of human classical music, well then, goblins might actually be people. And the book sort of knew it was playing with the ways we define who gets \u2013 let\u2019s call them sentient rights \u2013 and who doesn\u2019t. There\u2019s this great scene at the end where Vimes and Vetinari talk at each other about trafficking, one from a natural law stance and one from a positivist stance, and it\u2019s painful and sharp, because Vetinari is saying \u2018no, no it was not a crime, and it can\u2019t be until we pass this law making it a crime,\u2019 and Vimes is saying helplessly, \u2018no, but, it\u2019s just wrong .\u2019 But there are many many big and small ways that this book was . . . participating in the rhetorical game playing over who goes into what category, and how, and why. It didn't own its own shit, not nearly enough. And it was uncomfortable. Anyway. Still a really good book, and Sam Vimes still basically owns me. And his kid is awesome. But. Uncomfortable. ...more 3.5 stars. An enjoyable enough read, but not without it's problems: At times, it felt too pat. Vimes is too powerful, too famous, and just too glorious. It wasn't enough to be a Duke? And despite his street-gang portrayal in Thud! , Willikins is too dangerous, especially compared to his cherubic characterization in Men at Arms and Jingo . The ending is too happy, wrapped up in a bow. Vimes and Sybil get naked a few times (never happened before, not even when begetting an heir) and the Pride and Pr 3.5 stars. An enjoyable enough read, but not without it's problems: At times, it felt too pat. Vimes is too powerful, too famous, and just too glorious. It wasn't enough to be a Duke? And despite his street-gang portrayal in Thud! , Willikins is too dangerous, especially compared to his cherubic characterization in Men at Arms and Jingo . The ending is too happy, wrapped up in a bow. Vimes and Sybil get naked a few times (never happened before, not even when begetting an heir) and the Pride and Prejudice scenes felt totally out of place, like a peg from a round-world hole. Finally, I found myself a bit grossed out on the repeated focus on snot and poo. But quibbles aside, still a good read! Goblins. Regarded as vermin, the cave dwellers are fair game in The Shires. Butcher them, stuff them, snare them, enslave them -- whatever you like. But Commander Vimes has a problem with that... \"... because once the goblins are vermin, then the poor are vermin, and the dwarfs are vermin, and the trolls are vermin. She wasn't vermin, and she pleaded not to die!\" In the Shires, it's open season on goblins\u2014women and children included. When Vimes stumbles across this hideous but accepted practice he won't stop till he burns the house down. Or burns something. And his wife Sybil won't stop till she changes the world for goblins, one \"note\" at a time. It's melodic, how Sam and Sybil work in harmony, with the ever-resourceful Willikins adding percussion. As we've seen in the entire series, Pratchett continues to weave a theme of tolerance for all species: \"And Nobby, if you see a goblin who stinks like a latrine and glows slightly blue, well that's a ______ and don't you forget it!\" (Stinky, created by Paul Kidby) What to know more? Setting & General Plot (no spoilers): As the book opens, the commander of the City Watch is forced to take a vacation. Thus, the Duke and Duchess of Ankh (Sam and Sybil) take 6-yr-old Sam to Crundells, otherwise known as Ramkin Hall, the seldom-visited country estate of the Ramkin family \u2014 complete with farms, tavern, smithy, trout stream, gallows hill, goblin caves, etc. This is The Shires, located north of Quirm, in the Sto Plains countryside, on the banks of the River Quire (\"Old Treachery\"). While this bucolic location is appealing to Sybil, it's appalling to Sam. But a nice long break could be good \u2014 Sam might finally learn the difference between a robin and a warbler. Certainly, he comes to enjoy spending time navigating along Old Treachery aboard The Wonderful Fanny. He even meets up with Wee Mad Arthur! Hoping for something interesting to do in the sleepy Shires, Vimes soon gets his wish. He uncovers a brooding evil (bad bad stuff) and is confronted by a raw police recruit named Constable Feenie Upshot, who takes orders from the local magistrates. Vimes immediately sets out to solve the case (several intertwined crimes, actually) with help from the amazing Willikins and a very young Constable Feenie. He shows Feenie what it really means to be a copper, what the law is, and the nature of human \u2014 and nonhuman \u2014 rights. The young constable may be wet behind the ears, but he manages to impress and surprise old Vimes. There's plenty of action in the country, to Sam's surprise. He may be getting on in years, but this street fighter doesn't know that! Meanwhile, events in Ankh-Morpork move on a roughly parallel course, eventually intersecting with events in the Shires and in Howondaland, a foreign country to the south of Klatch. Throughout Snuff, Sam Vimes ponders his intimacy with \"The Summoning Dark\" (an entity we first met in THUD ). Meanwhile, young Sam ponders the nature of poo. He's six, what else would he do? Quibbles: The beginning (with Lord Vetinari and Drumknott) didn't have the spirit of Pratchett's previous books, but felt rather like an info dump. The characterization of Willikins does not hold true to his earliest portrayals, including his na\u00efvet\u00e9 in Jingo. Sometimes, I weary of Pratchett's brand of humor. So many puns. Also, sometimes he gets a bit preachy or teachy, especially about justice, social equity, the law, and the price of bread. But I love his way with parody, punnery, and satire, in acceptable amounts. 4 solid stars for Snuff . I posted a 15-question quiz for this book (some clues herein). I listened to the Audible version, narrated nicely by Stephen Briggs. Snuff is the latest (and probably last) addition to the City Watch series, a subset of The Discworld Series (City Watch books listed below, in order). _______________________ Series: Here are the Discworld books about the City Watch and its commander Sam Vimes, in order of publication: Guards! Guards! (1989) Men at Arms (1993) Feet of Clay (1996) Jingo (1997) The Fifth Elephant (1999) Night Watch (2002) Thud (2005) Snuff (2011) (Series links at https://www.goodreads.com/series/1062... ) Also, there are some spin-off books on city modernization featuring con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig, and a few characters from the City Watch. I recommend Going Postal which describes the invention and proliferation of postage stamps (loved it) and Making Money , depicting the creation of paper money to replace gold (also very good). Finally, the last book Pratchett wrote for this series is Raising Steam , wherein Moist must make the newly invented locomotive serve Ankh-Morpork and beyond. The Truth is not about Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters, including Lord Vetinari, even though it is not officially part of the City Watch series (whatever that means). This book depicts the invention of a printing press and the subsequent introduction of widespread newspapers into society. Satire deals with the wholesale acceptance of lies when ink-validated. William de Worde (he-he) is the city's first investigative journalist, sleuthing out possible murder and a plot to overthrow Lord Vetinari. Moving Pictures introduces the film industry (Hollywood style) to the eager citizens of Ankh-Morpork and surrounding suburbia. Gaspode the talking dog performs well in this one, with a few City Watch members showing up briefly. This book does not feature Moist Von Lipvig. I just love the City Watch Series and the Moist spin-offs! ...more This book made me sad. Which isn't to say it's a bad book, or a sad book (it is still reasonably funny)- but it made me aware that this is the end of the road for Discworld, or getting very close to it. When he announced some years back that he had begun to suffer from Alzheimer's, I'm sure I wasn't along in dreading the day when the awesome books would stop, when we would have to say goodbye to Discworld. The last book (Unseen Academicals) was not one of the strongest, but still pretty good. T This book made me sad. Which isn't to say it's a bad book, or a sad book (it is still reasonably funny)- but it made me aware that this is the end of the road for Discworld, or getting very close to it. When he announced some years back that he had begun to suffer from Alzheimer's, I'm sure I wasn't along in dreading the day when the awesome books would stop, when we would have to say goodbye to Discworld. The last book (Unseen Academicals) was not one of the strongest, but still pretty good. This one, though, feels like it was written by someone else- the tone is so different from the others. It feels like someone else wrote this based on his notes and under his supervision. Vimes, the main character, comes off as a parody of himself, and there is far more cursing and profanity in this one than in the previous 38 books (38!) combined, which is why I suspect there was a ghost writer involved in this. To be clear, this is not a badly written book- far from it, and I think Discworld fans will still enjoy it, even though it's essentially a Sylvester Stallone movie starring Sam Vimes, but it's not the same as the others. I grew up with these books, started reading them when I was 10, and it's a bummer to realize that a cherished part of your life (and a very influential one, at that- most of my writing is based on doing my best to rip him off, hahaha) could be drawing to a close. He is one of the authors that convinced me to read in the first place, and then later on, to write. Thank you for all you've done, Mr. Pratchett. ...more I didn't not enjoy Snuff , but I wonder if perhaps this will be the last Discworld novel I read. I've been reading Pratchett's work when I was eight years old and was first given a copy of Witches Abroad , and have long loved them for how smart they are; for the layers of meaning and historical allusions and the carefully crafted, intricate plots that were always, at their core, about what it is to be human. Snuff read like an average fanfic\u2014a good attempt at the old Pratchett voice, but missing t I didn't not enjoy Snuff , but I wonder if perhaps this will be the last Discworld novel I read. I've been reading Pratchett's work when I was eight years old and was first given a copy of Witches Abroad , and have long loved them for how smart they are; for the layers of meaning and historical allusions and the carefully crafted, intricate plots that were always, at their core, about what it is to be human. Snuff read like an average fanfic\u2014a good attempt at the old Pratchett voice, but missing that flair, that fierce intelligence, those turns of phrase that catch you by surprise and make you laugh out loud. I'm no physician, so I can in no way venture a guess as to whether it's a symptom of Pratchett's Alzheimer's, but I was reminded of the diagnosis over and over as I read. Vimes had no foil to be clever at, there were no puns or witty, offhand references, and frankly if this were a piece of fanfiction, I would say that both Vetinari and Willikins are out of character. Willikins was always Jeeves-as-assassin; he's far too chatty and convivial here, and I think there's the same issue with Vetinari. For all that it's readable, Snuff is also a sad book for me in many ways. ...more Shortly after finishing this book, I took a nap, and as I drifted off I had the thought that if I ever met Sir Terry, I very probably would fall to my knees and start crying and other things that would embarrass us both. The truth is, if we're lucky each of us finds a writer who speaks to our souls and makes our entire being and parts we didn't even know reverberate with something that to describe it as \"joy\" is a ridiculous understatement. If I were Sir Terry, I would probably describe it as a Shortly after finishing this book, I took a nap, and as I drifted off I had the thought that if I ever met Sir Terry, I very probably would fall to my knees and start crying and other things that would embarrass us both. The truth is, if we're lucky each of us finds a writer who speaks to our souls and makes our entire being and parts we didn't even know reverberate with something that to describe it as \"joy\" is a ridiculous understatement. If I were Sir Terry, I would probably describe it as a twang and surround it with descriptors both profound and giggle-inducing at once. Because that, in essence, is Sir Terry Pratchett, may the gods bless his soul. I've said before and will hold Snuff up as further evidence that Pratchett is the Shakespeare of our time, borrowing from here there and everywhere, pinning human nature to the wall and freeing it at once, and never letting a pun go by without a quick flirt and a kiss. Probably this book is best read after having digested the other Vimes books, but maybe not. Thankfully, I'm so versed in Watch books I forget which bit happened in what book because they're just all part of my internal memory now, real people in a real place doing real things. Snuff reminded me of Thud! and not just because of the Summoning Dark; once again Sir Terry took us on a journey of social prejudice while at the same time exploring the never-ending depths of Vimes both as the wonderfulness of Vimes and of good men and humanity in general. I think I prefer Snuff only slightly and because of the Goblins. Leave it to Pratchett to emotionally align you with people who smell like latrines and to once again reveal humans to be both wonderful and hideous at the same time. Perhaps my favorite part of this book, though, was that unlike every book Sir Terry has published since his diagnosis of Alzheimer's, it didn't feel like a goodbye. It was just another Vimes book, as brilliantly done as any other. And by god, I hope any idiot prattering yet again about \"I can tell he's sick\" gets a visit from Wilikins and his comb. (In double-checking the spelling of that on Google, I see that Rob Wilkins is Sir Terry's real life PA. I did get tears, sap that I am.) Yes, I know that my very favorite writer in the world who has taught me more about writing and story and life than anyone alive or dead, is ill. But like Granny, he aen't dead, and I wish people would quit trying to pluck around him like vultures and diagnose where his disease is getting into his art. Fucking hell -- we are all sick in some way or another, and yes, everything we are and were and shall be influences in our art. That's why they fucking call it art. We take pain and turn it into beauty and stuff that lasts. Tak indeed. Sir Terry, every word you write fills my heart with joy. Selfishly I hope you are able to write many, many more books before Granny holds the door open for you and Death takes you on a walk across the sand. But mostly I hope you are happy and full of the wonder your books give us as much as possible. And I hope you get your wish to meet your end on your terms and not that of your disease. May Anoia keep your drawers sliding freely, and may all your bacon sandwiches be without avec. ...more I'm a huge fan of the Discworld and the City Watch books in particular but I didn't care for Snuff as much as I could have -- or should have. Down in my gut I feel Commander Sam Vimes has had a great run but now he's so over-powerful, so unbeatable, and full of so many powerful allies (Vetinari, Lady Sybil, his unstoppable assassin-butler, the demon who lives in his head, every City Watch post ever, etc) he's no longer much of a joy to read. He has no challenge. He has no mountain to climb. The I'm a huge fan of the Discworld and the City Watch books in particular but I didn't care for Snuff as much as I could have -- or should have. Down in my gut I feel Commander Sam Vimes has had a great run but now he's so over-powerful, so unbeatable, and full of so many powerful allies (Vetinari, Lady Sybil, his unstoppable assassin-butler, the demon who lives in his head, every City Watch post ever, etc) he's no longer much of a joy to read. He has no challenge. He has no mountain to climb. The term for this is Mary Sue, and Vimes has become a Mary Sue character. I would have happily rolled with Vimes, Duke of Ankh-Morpork if the book had turned into a commentary on Upstairs-Downstairs like it promised in the beginning, or would have kept to the city and focused on the goblins, or simply had more focus /in general/. Too much was going on and not enough was going on that had focus. We had some Class Warfare AND smuggling AND murderers AND drugs AND poor oppressed goblins whom no one understands AND What Happens to Fred Colon AND Vimes Taking Charge... the book lacked focus and the lack of focus took away from the more interesting action sequences and themes. Oppression bad, yes. But it didn't have the feeling of freeing an oppressed people like, say, Feet of Clay did, even though it was, at its core, the same story. I would have been happier, perhaps with two books: Vimes investigating a MURDER in a Countryside Upstairs-Downstairs and a more focused story about the Goblins. Or something to that effect. Much like Unseen Academicals, Snuff is a long way from being unreadable but I had to force myself to finish it. It didn't grab me the same way Discworld books normally do. It's no \"The Times\" or \"Going Postal.\" If I had to rank them, Snuff would dwell somewhere in the bottom third. A high point: the continuation of Wee Mad Arthur's education as a Nac Mac Feegle from _I Shall Wear Midnight_. I adore the Feegles and having one who isn't Rob Anybody's crew is always good. Here's hoping PTerry still has a few books left in him -- and if they are City Watch books, they star Carrot and Angua and Cheery and the crew. ...more \"Snuff\" (Discworld series 39) by Terry Pratchett has double meanings: extinguish (candle, life) or tobacco to sniff (cause sneeze). Serious issues, humanity and sorcery, are tackled with humor. Commander (and reluctant Lord) Sam Vimes, arrives with family for holiday at his wife Sybil's country estate, and senses evil afoot. Amid son Sam's silly pre-occupation with poo, encouraged by meeting his favorite author Miss Beedle, are base crimes: kidnapping, murder. But the submissive goblin class are \"Snuff\" (Discworld series 39) by Terry Pratchett has double meanings: extinguish (candle, life) or tobacco to sniff (cause sneeze). Serious issues, humanity and sorcery, are tackled with humor. Commander (and reluctant Lord) Sam Vimes, arrives with family for holiday at his wife Sybil's country estate, and senses evil afoot. Amid son Sam's silly pre-occupation with poo, encouraged by meeting his favorite author Miss Beedle, are base crimes: kidnapping, murder. But the submissive goblin class are treated as vermin, without legal status. Their unggue religion creates beautiful pots to store bodily wastes, even nail-clippings, but not teeth. The power of such preserves is more believable after reading Witches and Magic-makers by Douglas Hill. Photographs from ancient artifacts to present day markets, across the Americas, Africa, Asia, illustrate long-standing and existing beliefs. We may wonder why, but people do accept unreal facts. The writing style is cobwebby complicated and repetitive (to me). After many Discworld books, the author has many details to keep track of and incorporate. I hope the Alzheimer disorder does not worsen and deteriorate the quality, like Agatha Christie's work suffered by her last. Spoilers: Jiminy bar-keeper and retired Colonel Rust try to warn off the newcomer. Sam finds a brutally killed goblin girl, source of copious blood, evidence for the corrupt local council to mislead their village inspector. Young Feeney arrests Sam, who recently publicly vanquished quarrelsome blacksmith Jethro, now vanished. Meanwhile city watchmen Carrot and Angua search suspiciously wealthy cigar factories. Sergeant Colon starts acting goblin-like after he grips and cannot release a miniscule goblin jar in a cigar from Bewilderforce Gumption. Blue Feegle Wee Mad Arthur flies to Howandaland wilderness to investigate reports on mass evacuations of unwilling goblins. Miss Beedle's best student, Tears of the Mushroom, has a heavenly hand at the harp, like the victim did. Lady Sybil can invite movers and shakers to a soiree. Can music change society perception of goblin humanity? ...more One day, one very sad day, Sir Terry Pratchett will be taken from us by the progression of Alzheimer's disease. I hope that day is a long time in coming though, since as he gets older and fights against the dimming of the light he simply gets better. I have read all his books and in this tale he returns to one of my favourite characters in the bizarre world on Amkh Morpork; Sam Vimes, Commander of the City Watch. Actually that His Grace, The Duke of Ankh, Samuel Vimes to you lot (but don't call One day, one very sad day, Sir Terry Pratchett will be taken from us by the progression of Alzheimer's disease. I hope that day is a long time in coming though, since as he gets older and fights against the dimming of the light he simply gets better. I have read all his books and in this tale he returns to one of my favourite characters in the bizarre world on Amkh Morpork; Sam Vimes, Commander of the City Watch. Actually that His Grace, The Duke of Ankh, Samuel Vimes to you lot (but don't call him that to his face)! He has finally been dragged off to his wife Lady Sybil's country estate for the first time in their marriage and is dreading every moment. Along with the couple are their son, young Sam and Sir Sam's \"gentleman's gentleman\" (with a minor in weaponry, street fighting and espionage) Willikins. This being the country Sam is not terribly at home and he promptly puts his foot in places he really shouldn't, uncovering the inevitable conspiracy and injustice that has remained hidden for years in a place where everyone knows everybody else's business. All pretty standard stuff you might think, but this being Pratchett the narrative is a trove of humour and - just as important - contains a sense of right, wrong and justice. The author consistently addresses serious themes and this time it is the turn of racism towards those that we don't understand and assume are something \"other\". Fans of the series might wonder who on earth (sorry, the Disc) might be \"other\" being as Trolls, Dwarves, Vampires, Humans, Zombies and others live happily (well sort of) side by side in Pratchett's world. Well, it is the Goblins (of course!) and the parallels between their plight and what \"we\" have done to \"primitive\" societies in our world is a sobering look in the mirror. ...more It looks like Ankh-Morpork is going to have to do without City Watch Commander Sir Samuel Vimes for a couple of weeks. Lady Sybil has decided that Young Sam, now an inquisitive six-year-old, needs some fresh country air and healthy outdoor recreation at Ramkin Hall, the family's country estate. It's the last thing that Vimes wants: trees and daffodils and chirping birds and his wife supervising his every meal for two whole weeks. No bacon sandwiches? Some vacation. But Lady Sybil has a way of ge It looks like Ankh-Morpork is going to have to do without City Watch Commander Sir Samuel Vimes for a couple of weeks. Lady Sybil has decided that Young Sam, now an inquisitive six-year-old, needs some fresh country air and healthy outdoor recreation at Ramkin Hall, the family's country estate. It's the last thing that Vimes wants: trees and daffodils and chirping birds and his wife supervising his every meal for two whole weeks. No bacon sandwiches? Some vacation. But Lady Sybil has a way of getting her way, which is how Vimes finds himself rambling around his estate and stopping in at the Goblin's Head for a non-alcoholic pint. Goblin's Head - the quaint country pub with little windows of wavery glass and...is that an actual goblin's head mounted above the bar? Vimes is still not comfortable with his status as the estate owner, and it is obvious that the local blacksmith isn't either. Mutterings and meaningful glares start his copper senses tingling and he realizes there's much more going on than a little working-class discontent. By the next morning the blacksmith is missing, the hillside where Vimes agreed to meet him at midnight is covered in blood, and Vimes finds himself under suspicion of murder. In my opinion Sir Terry Pratchett can do no wrong, and I know that his fans the world over will delight in this 39th novel in the Discworld saga. Wry humor, quirky unforgettable characters, and a plot that hurls itself down the Old Treachery River with the speed of a two-cow barge. (Okay, so maybe faster than that.) Readers will come away even more in love with the dogged determination and conflicted soul of the City Watch's most dedicated policeman. Disclaimer: Advanced Reader eGalley from the publisher keywords: Discworld, goblins, crime, comedy ...more I went home this week twice. Back to Grosse Pte., and back to Discworld. I have an Ankh Morpork passport and a couple of coins and one of these days I'll be going there permanently, but until then I have Snuff to read. Commander Sir Samuel Vimes / His Grace, the Duke of Ankh / Blackboard Monitor Vimes is made to go on holiday to the country with Lady Sybil and Young Sam. It's too quiet, Young Sam takes a forensic interest in country poo, and then there's a lot of blood in the dark on Hangman's H I went home this week twice. Back to Grosse Pte., and back to Discworld. I have an Ankh Morpork passport and a couple of coins and one of these days I'll be going there permanently, but until then I have Snuff to read. Commander Sir Samuel Vimes / His Grace, the Duke of Ankh / Blackboard Monitor Vimes is made to go on holiday to the country with Lady Sybil and Young Sam. It's too quiet, Young Sam takes a forensic interest in country poo, and then there's a lot of blood in the dark on Hangman's Hill. We get all the womping great storytelling Pratchett is master of, in a whodunit with dastardly deeds, musical heroines, most of the Watch, a wild chase scene on a river aptly named Old Treachery and an intriguing new look at Willikins, Vimes' gentleman's gentleman. I love Pratchett's sharp knife of social commentary sheathed in a soft scabbard of high good humor. The laughing here has pointier teeth and more tenderness together, and I like that. There are some of the finest phrases Pratchett has ever written.. \"as cold as charity\" is one that took my breath away. Now I want to read the whole Discworld series over again just once more. ...more Spring, 2011 OH MY GOD, just logged on and saw that this finally has cover art. I've been waiting for this book since...well, for a really long time. Not nearly as long as some people, I know, but GOOD LORD this wait might actually be worse than the tension and neuroses that afflicted me while counting down to Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows . Also, chickens! A lifetimer! VIMES IS ON A SHIP! I'm not really sure what's going on. September 28, 2011 Also, to whomever put that quote over there on the Spring, 2011 OH MY GOD, just logged on and saw that this finally has cover art. I've been waiting for this book since...well, for a really long time. Not nearly as long as some people, I know, but GOOD LORD this wait might actually be worse than the tension and neuroses that afflicted me while counting down to Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows . Also, chickens! A lifetimer! VIMES IS ON A SHIP! I'm not really sure what's going on. September 28, 2011 Also, to whomever put that quote over there on the side -- the moment I saw the words \"Vimes died\" I think I actually felt my entire soul shrivel up and blacken and cry inside me. It seems to be some sort of Pratchettian joke, but...oh my God. Yeah, this book is going to be intense. ...more I love Sir Terry Pratchett. I love Samuel Vimes. And I adored SNUFF! A book to make you laugh, to make you think, to make you stop and ask, \"How in the world does he THINK of these things?\" I went back and forth on my rating for this book so many times. It isn't the greatest Discworld book, even the greatest Watch book. And yet there's still something of greatness in here. First, the less-than-great. I like Vimes, immensely. But I still feel like he's getting to be a bit too much of a Batman character, if you will. Almost too smart, too powerful, too good at what he does. He's getting a little beyond belief. Here, I could still buy him, but I'm wondering if maybe he's getting honed I went back and forth on my rating for this book so many times. It isn't the greatest Discworld book, even the greatest Watch book. And yet there's still something of greatness in here. First, the less-than-great. I like Vimes, immensely. But I still feel like he's getting to be a bit too much of a Batman character, if you will. Almost too smart, too powerful, too good at what he does. He's getting a little beyond belief. Here, I could still buy him, but I'm wondering if maybe he's getting honed to the point where he'd work much better as a supporting character. (Like his guest appearance in Monstrous Regiment, for example.) The goblins were... interesting. For me, it was a pretty good bit of world-building. Invent a people that are, on the face of it, too disgusting to countenance. Then make them beautiful. It's a hard, hard thing to do, and Pratchett just barely managed it for me. And they are, after all, the overarching issue here, the question of whether or not they're people or animals. It's handled decently, or at least less anviliciously than the issue of the book has been handled in some of the previous Discworlds. The expected characters are, for the most part, just as they ought to be. I love Sybil, and how she and Sam interact as a couple. Young Sam is now six, and has the same occasional intensity of focus I recognize from my niece of the same age. (Who has, thank everything I can thank, not decided to focus on poo, as Young Sam has.) I thought at first that Vetinari was altogether too cheerful. But then I realized that here is a man who had a very ambitious plan for his city. And it's all coming to pass, just as he planned it, and he's hardly had to do anything at all to get it done. So naturally he'd be feeling a bit chipper of late. So, no, this isn't the best Discworld or Watch book, not by a long shot. But neither is it the worst, and it's definitely better than Unseen Academicals had been. And to be honest, even the worst of Pratchett is generally a cut above the average. ...more Why did no one tell me Terry Pratchett was so awesome??? No, that's not fair. A few people have said so, and a trusted advisor on all things geeky did recommend a few of Pratchett's Discworld books to me, but only now am I finally getting around to reading one. And I am just about blown away! As I understand it, this isn't necessarily the best of Pratchett's Discworld work, and as far as cop fiction goes, it is fairly rote. But after getting through 20% of the book with no actual plot happening, Why did no one tell me Terry Pratchett was so awesome??? No, that's not fair. A few people have said so, and a trusted advisor on all things geeky did recommend a few of Pratchett's Discworld books to me, but only now am I finally getting around to reading one. And I am just about blown away! As I understand it, this isn't necessarily the best of Pratchett's Discworld work, and as far as cop fiction goes, it is fairly rote. But after getting through 20% of the book with no actual plot happening, yet loving it all anyway, I figure Pratchett is definitely doing something right. I was immediately charmed by Pratchett's dry wit and found myself genuinely LOLing several times, particularly in relation to poop, a subject which I certainly had not expected to learn quite so much about. The story centres on Sam Vimes, commander of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch, who is off on vacation in the country side. As with any cop drama, it is impossible for a cop not to cop, even while on vacation, and especially when murder inconveniently happens during that time. In this case, the victim is a goblin. According to the mainly human perspective, goblins are barely worth anyone's time, but Vimes is a man that respects life in its many forms, and especially in its living, breathing, thinking, feeling forms. As my first introduction to Vimes, I am equally charmed by the man as I am with his creator. I am also quite fond of the relationship between Vimes and his not so gentlemanly gentleman, Willikins. The pair reminded me of Cesare and Micheletto from The Borgias, only, older, with more humour, less giving of fucks, and fewer angst-ridden forbidden romances. Dropping into part 39/8 of a long-standing series isn't generally wise, but the book does a fine job of not making me feel completely out of sorts. Certainly there are historical, political, and personal references, as well as some inside jokes, that I likely missed out on, but it was nothing that kept me from enjoying the book on its own. It just means that I have something to look forward to when I pick up more from the series. www.bibliosanctum.com ...more Sam Vimes has always been my favorite Discworld main character because he's easily the richest and most complex: a good man and a good copper who's always aware just how thin the barrier is between that and becoming bad. It doesn't help that he's taken on a rider in his head (possibly imaginary, but very possibly all too real) who would cheerfully give him a shove through that barrier. In this book, Vimes takes a holiday at the insistence of his adoring (and incredibly rich) wife Sybil. Vimes be Sam Vimes has always been my favorite Discworld main character because he's easily the richest and most complex: a good man and a good copper who's always aware just how thin the barrier is between that and becoming bad. It doesn't help that he's taken on a rider in his head (possibly imaginary, but very possibly all too real) who would cheerfully give him a shove through that barrier. In this book, Vimes takes a holiday at the insistence of his adoring (and incredibly rich) wife Sybil. Vimes being Vimes of course, it's not long before he's neck deep in murder and corruption in a place where no one knows him or cares that he's the Commander of the City Watch. There are some of the usual pointed and witty observations here, as well as some good suspense. Pratchett does seem to indulge his penchant for beating you over the head with the book's message a little more than usual, but once you get past that, it's an amusing, fun read. I would have liked to see more of Vetinari (my second favorite Pratchett character), but then I feel that way in every one of the Disoworld books. I just love that magnificent bastard. ...more", "Title": "Snuff"},
