{"Comments": "It's a four-star book with five stars.<---F> I'll explain in a minute</---F>. I'm still thinking on the Cat's Table. I've enjoyed Ondaatje's poetry more than his novels and this book seems to straddle those categories a bit. He writes beautifully on the visual and emotional fronts. He structures long works creatively and I'm still trying to decide how well this one works for me. <+++>The Cat's Table</+++> is, primarily, a story of a three-week voyage by ship, from Colombo to London. Its focus is on three unrelated and un It's a four-star book with five stars. I'll explain in a minute. I'm still thinking on the Cat's Table. I've enjoyed Ondaatje's poetry more than his novels and this book seems to straddle those categories a bit. He writes beautifully on the visual and emotional fronts. He structures long works creatively and I'm still trying to decide how well this one works for me. <+++>The Cat's Table</+++> is, primarily, a story of a three-week voyage by ship, from Colombo to London. Its focus is on three unrelated and unsupervised boys and their interactions with fellow travelers, especially those assigned to their low-profile dinner table. It's a 1952 bit of exotica and bildungsroman with flashes into the future to see how these characters fare or have been effected by events along the voyage. I think the structure lessens the emotional impact a bit, but I'll keep thinking on it for a while. Sometimes a really excellent book will have characters that come back to the front of my mind over the course of years. I can almost imagine the ship and the lights of the Suez Canal at night coming back to me, but not the characters. So, five stars? If you are an author who wants to evoke a powerful emotional response, there are some easy paths to this: rape, torture,<---M> abuse of children or other innocents</---M>, messy divorces, cancer, etc. Some of these things are fairly common in our lives, some much less so. All can be used for shock value and as a foil for characters to be tested, to explain their growth or diminishing. As a reader, often but not exclusively, of what passes as serious literature (I want to read short lists for the Booker and Tournament of Books selections and Pulitzers and National Book awards) I want to see what an author can say about life without resorting to these easy obstacles. Being wiped out in a drug deal gone bad is not particularly enlightening. I am shocked but not improved in any way from the depiction of a brutal rape either from the victim's or the aggressor's point-of-view. What is particular bothersome is that these shortcuts are more frequently becoming the path toward critical acclaim and awards. So, in some categories of literature, I'm taking away a star or more for authors that require this little bit of shock value to propel their characters or add weight to their writing. Likewise, I'll add a star to authors that can get by without it. Ondaatje has written beautifully and thoughtfully about humanity enlarged by events and gets one rape-free star bonus point. ...more Finishing a book and feeling compelled to turn to the first page again to reread it is not something I do a lot but The Cat's Table is just such a book. The writing is quietly beautiful and the description of the long vanished world of a 1950's trip on an ocean liner is perfect. The reread offers extra insights into that world and underlines the complexity of Ondaatje's story telling. There are many hints of the events to come but they remain quite subtle, not at all menacing. In fact the dramat Finishing a book and feeling compelled to turn to the first page again to reread it is not something I do a lot but The Cat's Table is just such a book. The writing is quietly beautiful and the description of the long vanished world of a 1950's trip on an ocean liner is perfect. The reread offers extra insights into that world and underlines the complexity of Ondaatje's story telling. There are many hints of the events to come but they remain quite subtle, not at all menacing. In fact the dramatic events which enfold are always secondary to the descriptions of the passengers and the slices of their lives which we are offered so compellingly. In any case, Ondaatje doesn't really bother too much with tying up the loose ends of the plot - he leaves some things to our imagination. ...more A Trip through the Liminal It's hard to imagine today but in 1953 Michael, who was eleven years old, traveled by ship from his native Sri Lanka to England with virtually no adult supervision. He had an `aunt' traveling in first class who chatted with him a few times throughout the trip when they happened to meet on deck but other than that he was on his own. There was a vast distance between steerage, where Michael berthed, and first class. In steerage he mixed with the crew, an odd assortment of A Trip through the Liminal It's hard to imagine today but in 1953 Michael, who was eleven years old, traveled by ship from his native Sri Lanka to England with virtually no adult supervision. He had an `aunt' traveling in first class who chatted with him a few times throughout the trip when they happened to meet on deck but other than that he was on his own. There was a vast distance between steerage, where Michael berthed, and first class. In steerage he mixed with the crew, an odd assortment of academics and even some criminals. Anything could happen in these nether regions. The worst that could happen in first class was gossip over cards. Michael immediately bonded with two other `tween boys, Ramadhin and Cassius, when they're seated together at the cat's table. The cat's table was the designation for the lowliest table set furthest away from the glitter of the captain's seating. Michael's new friends were as unfettered as he was and they roamed the boat freely spying on their fellow passengers and watching the ever changing and amazing scenery pass by. There was a criminal in chains on board whose guards led him out during the late evening hours. The boys hid in lifeboats and watched as he walked in chains around the deck. They speculated what horrible crime he'd committed since no one seemed to know any facts. Michael shortly cavorted with an onboard thief who enlisted him to help steal. Emily, Michael's beautiful and wild seventeen year old and much admired cousin, puts an end to this when she realizes what he's doing. In short the boys have the adventure of their young lives. On landing in England and reuniting with his mother, Michael quickly merges into his new life but stays in touch with Cassius. Most of \"Cat's Table\" is written from the perspective of an eleven year old but there are sections written from Michael's adult self is looking back on a great adventure and reevaluating its meaning. What appeared to be truth to an eleven year old takes on different meanings through the experience of middle age. His two friends changed the trajectory of his life. At eleven his travels seemed like just a blip but looking back what seemed minimal actually influenced large swaths of his life. Anyone whose read Ondaatje is aware how lush his language is and how profound his insights are and happily\"Cat's Table\" is no exception. The two weeks of their ship journey was a suspension of life. A pit stop. Their lives were on hold and anything was possible. They formed associations at whim. They stayed up to all hours. They stole. They were free from constraints. They spied on adults. The future seemed irrelevant. They didn't question their friendship. Yet this trip influenced the rest of their lives. It was a small journey that became large. This is a trip through the liminal. A demarcation between one world and another, from Sri Lanka to England, from childhood with kind but distant relatives and freedom to roam the lush Sri Lankan sights, sounds and people to a barely remembered mother and an alien England. I've read Ondaatje's \"Divisdero\", \"In the Skin of the Lion\" and \"The English Patient\" (That's also the order of my preference.) and compared with them \"Cat's Table\" feels more restrained. As always Ondaatje sprinkles truths and cogent observations about the tragedy and beauty of life but he never hits you over the head. He leaves it to the reader to take away what's relevant for themselves. ...more Sitting at the Cat's Table is the least prestigious seat, but the one from which you can see the most. The Captain's table is on display, for others to look at - at the Cat's Table, you have all your time free to watch everything going on about you. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook Michael was eleven years old that night when, green as he could be about the world , he climbed aboard the first and only ship of his life, the Oronsay, sailing for England from Colombo. Unbeknownst to him, the twenty-one days at sea would become twenty-one years of schooling, molding him into the adult he would one day be, when he joined the cat's table, the least important place to eat on the ship. The lessons he picked up from the adult company filled up several pages of his old school exercis Michael was eleven years old that night when, green as he could be about the world , he climbed aboard the first and only ship of his life, the Oronsay, sailing for England from Colombo. Unbeknownst to him, the twenty-one days at sea would become twenty-one years of schooling, molding him into the adult he would one day be, when he joined the cat's table, the least important place to eat on the ship. The lessons he picked up from the adult company filled up several pages of his old school exercise books. He still had time to make those notes, amid the adventures in which he and his friends, Ramadhin and Cassius, engaged in on the ship. They witnessed an adult world filled with thieves, adulterers, gamblers, teachers, authority, natural healers, dreamers and schemers. Oh yes, and a shackled, dangerous prisoner. Each one of them becomes important in the three boys' lives through either their words or conduct. The ship had lots to offer for three young boys to keep them occupied. So many people, so many stories, so many intrigue. And then there was the ports of call... Miss Perinetta Lasqueti was one of the guests around the Cat's Table who would become one of the biggest influences in their lives. Their first impression of her manner was that of being like faded wallpaper, but the more they found out about her, the more convinced they became that 'she was more like a box of small foxes at a country fair' . She would become one of the biggest surprises on their life's journey. Mr. Mazappa - the boisterous, loud pianist would change their newly acquired perspective on old paintings with his approach to the angelic Madonnas in them, saying: \"\u2018The trouble with all those Madonnas is that there is a child that needs to be fed and the mothers are putting forth breasts that look like panino -shaped bladders. No wonder the babies look like disgruntled adults.\"(p.213 - kindle edition) Mr. Larry Daniels, the botanist, would teach them much more about his plants than they would ever need to know in their lifetimes. Mr. Fonseka, the teacher, had a \"serenity that came with the choice of the life he wanted to live. And this serenity and certainty I have seen only among those who have the armour of books close by.\" I wanted to read this book for such a long time now. There was just something about it that told me it would roll me over and tie me down in its prose. It did. I was pleasantly surprised when I discovered its popularity on Goodreads. Some books just put themselves where it can be read because it is really that good. It is multifaceted. It is thought-provoking. It is excellent. It is one of those books you cannot walk away from easily. It has all the elements to promise that it will become a classic in time. I want to reread it. I just have to. Period. ...more No one writes poetic prose like <---A>Michael Ondaatje</---A>. But his gorgeous, sensuous language and piercing insights into the human condition sometimes impede the flow of his latest novel. The Cat's Table takes place on a ship called the Oronsay in the early 1950s, heading from Sri Lanka (then Ceylon) to England, where Michael (we'll get to that name later), the 11-year-old narrator, is heading to live with his estranged mother. The title refers to the dining table for the ship's misfits, who include the n No one writes poetic prose like Michael Ondaatje. But his gorgeous, sensuous language and piercing insights into the human condition sometimes impede the flow of his latest novel. The Cat's Table takes place on a ship called the Oronsay in the early 1950s, heading from Sri Lanka (then Ceylon) to England, where Michael (we'll get to that name later), the 11-year-old narrator, is heading to live with his estranged mother. The title refers to the dining table for the ship's misfits, who include the narrator, two other preadolescent boys and a handful of single adults. Far removed from the first-class passengers and captain's table, they're far more interesting to a burgeoning writer like the narrator. Mr. Mazappa, one of the ship's musicians, shares exotic stories of Gay Paree, and Mr. Daniels maintains a lush garden in the bowels of the ship. Also capturing everyone's imagination is a mysterious prisoner who's led out for a nightly walk. And then there's Michael's beautiful older cousin Emily, whose life will connect with the others' in unpredictable ways. Obviously, there are bits of autobiography here, from the narrator's name to the fact that the author took a similar journey on a ship called the Oronsay in the same era. The young Michael learns about social hierarchies and the power of storytelling, and Ondaatje gives us another perspective later in the book when the narrator, now a successful writer living in Canada, ponders the mysteries of what happened during the trip. But is it a memoir? A novel? It seems like some unsatisfying hybrid that never really soars. The sentences themselves are thrilling, though. Ondaatje lets you see the meaning in how a young woman adjusts the strap on her dress or how someone catching his reflection in a mirror may suddenly see himself move from boyhood to youth. Starting out, the book seems like a grand adventure reminiscent of something by Kipling or Conrad but with a more knowing take on colonialism and class. Alas, the pieces never come together into something as fluid and magical as The English Patient or Anil's Ghost or as funny and touching as his actual memoir, Running In The Family . Originally published in NOW Magazine: https://nowtoronto.com/art-and-books/... ...more The Cat's Table would have been enchanting as just a series of character sketches and picaresque vignettes, culminating in an affecting reassessment as an adult of the connections made as a child. That a genuine mystery emerges during that short but momentous voyage - gravitating around a menacing, shackled prisoner who is only let out under highly and unusually protected conditions at night - is a splendid, intriguing bonus. If The Cat's Table is not Ondaatje's best novel yet (oh, but I think it The Cat's Table would have been enchanting as just a series of character sketches and picaresque vignettes, culminating in an affecting reassessment as an adult of the connections made as a child. That a genuine mystery emerges during that short but momentous voyage - gravitating around a menacing, shackled prisoner who is only let out under highly and unusually protected conditions at night - is a splendid, intriguing bonus. If The Cat's Table is not Ondaatje's best novel yet (oh, but I think it is ...), it is certainly his most straightforwardly told and emotionally accessible story. It's a yearning tribute with an almost fairytale-like aura to the memories of awe that pervade our dreams (and nightmares and fears), and the memories of sometimes unlikely affiliation and love and what we mistake as love that pervade and haunt our hearts, guide us or sometimes lead us astray. Read my full review here: http://bookgaga.posterous.com/the-cat... ...more Cat's Table -- the ocean liner equivalent of the kiddie's table, only leavened with a motley group of adult ne'er-do-wells as well. It's where little Michael Ondaatje, age 11, sat on a memorable (thus, the book) voyage aboard the Oransay many decades ago. In this book, we meet not only Michael but his comrades-in-mischief, bad-boy Cassius and thoughtful Ramadhin. The three of them do what bored boys do -- get into trouble and spy on interesting adults, especially interesting women like Michael's Cat's Table -- the ocean liner equivalent of the kiddie's table, only leavened with a motley group of adult ne'er-do-wells as well. It's where little Michael Ondaatje, age 11, sat on a memorable (thus, the book) voyage aboard the Oransay many decades ago. In this book, we meet not only Michael but his comrades-in-mischief, bad-boy Cassius and thoughtful Ramadhin. The three of them do what bored boys do -- get into trouble and spy on interesting adults, especially interesting women like Michael's cousin Emily, who plays a role in the end. Ah, the end. Suffice it to say that the book goes awry somewhere along the voyage, drifting from a creditable coming-of-age slash descriptive marvel to a murder melodrama (or something) centering on minor characters we as readers have little capital in. Can you say \"Yawn\"? Can you ask \"Why?\" OK, so I just did. Really, Ondaatje was on to something with the world-through-boys'-eyes bit when he suddenly switched horses midstream (or mid-ocean, if you will). Whatever possessed him? By the time the book finally makes port, it is taking on water. Badly. If you're an Ondaatje fan, you'll find the plot more accessible and the diction less dense. Whether that's good or bad, I cannot say. If you're not an Ondaatje fan, don't feel bullied into loving this because of reviews or because of his hallowed name. Big-name writers have to perform, too, after all. Earn their daily bread with the readers, so to speak. Four stars until it hits a 2-star iceberg, then. I'll split the difference. ...more Ondaatje's latest novel is, perhaps, his most \"approachable\" yet. It lacks the (somewhat) \"foreign-ness\" of Anil's Ghost and the \"intellectual-ness\" of Divisadero. (It's been too long since I read The English Patient to adequately come up with a comparison.) But most importantly, it has the same almost lyrically beautiful prose of other novels. It also reads faster. It is a page turner \u2013 not so much because the story is riveting, but because the prose flows so easily. The Cat's Table takes place, Ondaatje's latest novel is, perhaps, his most \"approachable\" yet. It lacks the (somewhat) \"foreign-ness\" of Anil's Ghost and the \"intellectual-ness\" of Divisadero. (It's been too long since I read The English Patient to adequately come up with a comparison.) But most importantly, it has the same almost lyrically beautiful prose of other novels. It also reads faster. It is a page turner \u2013 not so much because the story is riveting, but because the prose flows so easily. The Cat's Table takes place, mostly, on a ship as an 11-year-old boy sails from Sri Lanka to England. (Approximately 100 pp into the novel, we learn the boy \u2013 who narrates \u2013 is named Michael, but an author's note at the end tells us, explicitly, that this is a novel and not a memoir.) The novel itself, in some ways, is a series of vignettes, more than a narrative with a full arc. On the ship, Michael meets two other boys his age, and they proceed to cause mischief of various kinds \u2013 stealing food from first class and hiding in life boats to eat; tossing deck chairs into the pool; creating a fort in the turbine room. They also cross paths with a diverse cast of characters at the table where they dine \u2013 The Cat\u2019s Table: a botanist who is transporting a garden in the ship\u2019s cargo hold; a pianist who plays with the ship band; a tailor who doesn\u2019t speak; and a woman whose demeanor is able to arise the budding sexual fantasies of the boys. The Cat\u2019s Table is not a \u201ccoming of age\u201d story in the traditional sense. In my opinion, it takes place over too short a period of time to be that; the bulk of the action takes place only over the three week journey from East to West. But the story on the ship does include brief \u201cpauses\u201d that take us into Michael\u2019s future (the general present/recent past) and show the way in which the short period of time really did inform and shape his life. In some ways, these realizations for him seem to happen only as a result of writing about and reliving his time on the ship. Thus, we are sharing in his self-discovery; he is not telling us about it after the fact. It is in this sense that the novel is extremely personal. We are drawn into his life to share the way in which this brief period from his past informs his present. Many of us have a story similar to Michael\u2019s time on the ship \u2013 a time where we were living in the moment, enjoying our life, meeting people, not thinking about how events, although exciting, might reverberate through the years. Here is a book to discover that feeling while soaking in beautiful images and prose. ...more It is a long while since I read The English Patient and I had forgotten how well Ondaatje writes. This is the tale of a journey. Michael is 11 and travelling unaccompanied on an ocean liner (the Oronsay) from Colombo to London (via Aden, the Suez Canal, the Med), where he is to meet his mother. There is a relative aboard who will keep a distant eye on him, but Michael is pretty much left to his own devices. Michael teams up with two other boys in a similar situation; Cassius and Ramadhin. They s It is a long while since I read The English Patient and I had forgotten how well Ondaatje writes. This is the tale of a journey. Michael is 11 and travelling unaccompanied on an ocean liner (the Oronsay) from Colombo to London (via Aden, the Suez Canal, the Med), where he is to meet his mother. There is a relative aboard who will keep a distant eye on him, but Michael is pretty much left to his own devices. Michael teams up with two other boys in a similar situation; Cassius and Ramadhin. They sit on the lowest table in the dining room, known as the Cat\u2019s table; hence the name. The boys are suitably mischievous and have adventures, get into trouble, annoy the adults and generally behave like boys should. There is an interesting and eclectic cast of supporting characters, including an acrobatic troupe, a mysterious prisoner and his daughter, Michael\u2019s cousin Emily and a fair selection of decidedly eccentric misfits. The whole thing is told from the point of view of Michael in later life. The whole thing has an unreal feel as though the ship is in suspended animation for the duration of the voyage. Routines are set up, romances and flirtations considered. There are a few scandals and disasters and a decently worked through mystery. I felt the present in which Michael was writing and the past didn\u2019t quite gel, but the whole was very satisfying and it drifted by very easily. I\u2019m also reading Mulligan Stew at the moment and that doesn\u2019t drift; it assaults the senses. The contrast was an interesting one. Both books are playing with the nature of memory and the links between the past and present. In the same way, I think as The Go-Between; for ship read country house. Each of the characters filters the past differently. There is also an element of coming of age about it; I\u2019ve been reading a few of these recently hmmmm; here comes dotage!! Anyway I enjoyed it and reading it was a little like drifting along on a cruise ...more The Cat's Table is the story a 11 year old boy named Michael, told by him and describing his three week journey from the land that was once called Ceylon to the grand country of England by sea. Michael is a lone traveler, leaving the only country he knows for a completely unknown one. On the ship he quickly befriends two other fellows his age, and the merry brigade is up to do some mischief, hear the stories that adults tell and spy on the mysterious shackled prisoner. With such a premise, The C The Cat's Table is the story a 11 year old boy named Michael, told by him and describing his three week journey from the land that was once called Ceylon to the grand country of England by sea. Michael is a lone traveler, leaving the only country he knows for a completely unknown one. On the ship he quickly befriends two other fellows his age, and the merry brigade is up to do some mischief, hear the stories that adults tell and spy on the mysterious shackled prisoner. With such a premise, The Cat's Table should read like a breeze - only it doesn't. For such a short novel it took me quite some time to finish - i never got to like or even appreciate the characters, and the episodic structure of the novel didn't help. It feels more like a collection of vignettes than a coherent text; there is little glue that would bind the spine to hold them in one place. Events happen, people go on and off the stage, timelines change, only there is little reason to care about any of this, so little that the novel became an effort for me to finish. Perhaps it is too personal of a text? Although in the afterword the author states that the story is cut from the whole cloth, just by glancing at his biography one can see that he has undergone similar experiences as the young narrator whom he conveniently decided to grace with his own name. Maybe this is an effort to recapture the past; to relive the adventures of the early youth; bring back the period that is long gone? I don't know, and neither does anybody else. Judge for yourself - pick it up, read it, and if it fails to attract your interest don't hesitate to put it aside, unfinished, and move onto something more pleasant to the palate. ...more A very satisfying read that left me with a lot of lingering emotions. And delayed insights about the mysteries of how we grow into our adult selves. Michael reflects back on a long journey on an ocean liner he took in the early 50\u2019s when he was 11, travelling from his life with his emotionally distant father in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) to his mother in England, where she moved after a divorce. He is poorly supervised by a female family friend who travels in first class. Michael makes friends with t A very satisfying read that left me with a lot of lingering emotions. And delayed insights about the mysteries of how we grow into our adult selves. Michael reflects back on a long journey on an ocean liner he took in the early 50\u2019s when he was 11, travelling from his life with his emotionally distant father in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) to his mother in England, where she moved after a divorce. He is poorly supervised by a female family friend who travels in first class. Michael makes friends with two other boys who together engage in a lot of adventures, pushing all limits that they can. This includes spying upon and making up stories about the multicultural mix of adults on the ship, starting with the passengers who share the \u201cCat\u2019s Table\u201d with the kids in the dining room. Sometimes their shenanigans cross too many boundaries and sometimes their fantasies about nefarious activities or secret affairs of certain adults turns out to reflect reality. A mystery involving his favorite cousin, Emily, in her late teens, becomes quite an obsession with Michael, whose affection for her evokes his first erotic experiences. Ondaatje captivates the reader with his vision of youthful freedom and escape. It\u2019s not exactly comic like a \u201cFerris Bueller\u2019s Day Off\u201d and it\u2019s not exactly dark like \u201cLord of the Flies\u201d. Somewhere on the middle of the scale from comic to tragic scale. Bit by bit, we learn about Michael\u2019s loneliness in his past life and apprehensions for the future. Then slowly and deftly the author turns the boy\u2019s present on the boat voyage into a gateway to Michael\u2019s choices and experiences in his later life, first in England and later as an immigrant in Toronto. Initially the lapses forward felt distracting from the adventures on the ship, but then the story turns into a masterful revelation on coming of age and on how experiences at a critical time in youth can resonate throughout one\u2019s life. That Ondaatje is a poet assures some well crafted delights in the writing in this novel. Despite disclaimed that everything in this novel is fiction, one can\u2019t help wonder how many of the parallels with Ondaatje\u2019s own life reflect autobiographical elements. Here is a passage about Michael learning some insights from a filmmaker on the trip, which seems to invoke a forgiving attitude in looking at one\u2019s past and people experienced along the way: He spoke of how viewers of his films should not assume they understand everything about the characters. As members of an audience we should never feel ourselves wiser than they; we do not have more knowledge than the characters have about themselves. We should not feel reassured or certain about their motives, or look down on them. I believe this. I recognize this as a first principle of art, although I have the suspicion that many would not. Here is a passage that captures some of his regard for Emily: A writer, I cannot remember who, spoke of a person having \u201ca confusing grace.\u201d With an uncertainty alongside her warmth, that is how Emily has always been for me. You trusted her but she didn\u2019t trust herself. She was \u201cgood\u201d, but she was not that way in her own eyes. Those qualities still had not balanced out somehow, or agreed with each other. The dawning erotic sense Michael experiences with Emily opens a lot of doors in his mind, beautifully captured in this passage: Yet where had it come from? And was it a pleasure or a sadness, this life inside me? It was as if with its existence I was lacking something essential, like water\u2026.I felt in that moment that I had been alone for years. I had existed too cautiously with my family, as though there had been shards of glass always around us. \u2026 Whatever small props of necessary defence I\u2019d surrounded myself with, which contained and protected me, and which had marked an outline of me, were no longer there. Sometimes we find our true and inherent selves during youth. It is a recognition of something that at first is small within ourselves that we will grow into somehow. Looking back, I am no longer certain who gave me what pieces of advice, or befriended us, or deceived us. And some events only sank in much later. ...more I love the cover on this book. The font, the sepia tones, the old-fashioned liner being tossed atop a sea that looks askew, all hint at a journey of the past that did not go smoothly. The story is told in the first person from the perspective of an older man recalling the past; it is of himself as an 11 year old leaving his life in Sri Lanka to join his mother in England. \"Some events take a lifetime to reveal their damage and influence.\" He must go alone on a 3 week journey by ship. He is still I love the cover on this book. The font, the sepia tones, the old-fashioned liner being tossed atop a sea that looks askew, all hint at a journey of the past that did not go smoothly. The story is told in the first person from the perspective of an older man recalling the past; it is of himself as an 11 year old leaving his life in Sri Lanka to join his mother in England. \"Some events take a lifetime to reveal their damage and influence.\" He must go alone on a 3 week journey by ship. He is still a child, but childhood is ready to fall behind him. Strong friendships develop quickly in the concentrated atmosphere of shipboard relationships. Childish exploits blend with adult events but the nature of these confusing times can never be properly understood or placed in context by the young still struggling to understand the grown-up world that surrounds them. \"Sometimes we find our true and inherent selves during youth. It is a recognition of something that at first is small within us, that we will grow into somehow.\" We are taken back and forth from his childhood perspective to his adult one as he puzzles out the meanings of various shipboard incidents culminating in a shocking action. The first half of the book especially felt like a series of short sharp episodes, standing out in relief against a blurred background. Ondaatje's prose as usual is smooth and effortless. \"In our twenties we are busy becoming other people.\" ...more I heard Michael Ondaatje being interviewed by Shelagh Rogers on CBC radio the other night. She spent the first portion of the interview asking him about the autobiographical aspects of the novel and, strangely, he said, somewhat dismissively I thought, that he wasn't interested in writing about himself. He said his writing is driven by curiosity, implying that autobiography isn't. He then went on to confirm all the parallels between the novel and his own life. I don't begrudge him the fictionaliz I heard Michael Ondaatje being interviewed by Shelagh Rogers on CBC radio the other night. She spent the first portion of the interview asking him about the autobiographical aspects of the novel and, strangely, he said, somewhat dismissively I thought, that he wasn't interested in writing about himself. He said his writing is driven by curiosity, implying that autobiography isn't. He then went on to confirm all the parallels between the novel and his own life. I don't begrudge him the fictionalizing of his life, and the insistence that it is fiction. I once worked with a creative writing professor who kept calling me by the name of my novel's protagonist. He then asked me if I'd always been a loner (because my character was). It was an awkward moment. But I'm curious about Ondaatje's apparent dismissal of autobiography, (during the interview, he called Running in the Family a \"fake autobiography\") as if it's somehow a bit shameful to write about yourself. I find this a peculiarly Canadian perspective. And maybe I take it a bit personally, since my first two books were memoir. Writing memoir is also driven by curiosity, and by a need to order our own experiences and give them shape. Writers like Annie Dillard, Alexandra Fuller and Karen Armstrong all write autobiography driven by curiosity and a need to understand. My own experience is that in writing memoir, the self becomes almost a character and the critical distance from myself is like what happens in writing fiction. Sharon Butala, in The Perfection of the Morning, has an insightful passage about this: \"I had been tending toward writing what is dismissively referred to by scholars as 'confessional' writing as it was.... I wanted to cut away what I had been taught...and only write from the deepest part of myself, to say how things seem to me, what I honestly think about my life and the lives of women, or further, what I honestly feel before thought, but I would see it with my own eyes, hear it with my own ears, sense it with my own body.\" I love this passage, because it confirms my own feeling that writing is far more than an intellectual act. I like Ondaatje's fiction, but I bet I'd like his autobiography too. ...more It's not the opening sentence. Stuff happens before that. Our narrator, 11 year-old Michael, aka Mynah, but not aka Michael Ondaatje (we are told in an afterword), has already boarded a ship from Colombo and bound for England. He is assigned to the Cat's Table, that one farthest from the Captain's table in distance and prestige, and he meets two boys his age. And then, there it is: Sleep is a prison for a boy who has friends to meet. Spend a year, spend five years, and try to write a better senten It's not the opening sentence. Stuff happens before that. Our narrator, 11 year-old Michael, aka Mynah, but not aka Michael Ondaatje (we are told in an afterword), has already boarded a ship from Colombo and bound for England. He is assigned to the Cat's Table, that one farthest from the Captain's table in distance and prestige, and he meets two boys his age. And then, there it is: Sleep is a prison for a boy who has friends to meet. Spend a year, spend five years, and try to write a better sentence than that. ----- ----- ----- ----- So this is an adventure story. Except for the poetic writing, the symbolism and hidden meanings, the literary allusions. Miss Lasqueti appears at a ball dressed as Proust. Otherwise, she walks around carrying - but not apparently reading - The Magic Mountain . I liked that so much better than the adventure. Which, I guess, is my way of saying I don't think this book ever figured out what it wanted to be. I totally get those that say they went back to the first page and re-read. I understand the impulse anyhow. And I might have, if TBR shelves weren't groaning. Instead, I took what this book book gave me on first read: a very nice journey. And lots of moments. My favorite moments revolved around Miss Lasqueti. She had a laugh that hinted it had rolled around once or twice in the mud. And, she was capable of disarming with dinner conversation such as: Spanish is a loving tongue --- is it not, Mr. Mazappa? As Michael, Mynah but not Michael Ondaatje (we are assured), observed, \"We were learning about adults simply by being in their midst.\" ...more The author\u2019s most famous claim to fame is his novel \u2018The English Patient\u2019 which when on to become a successful movie at the box office. That was a good movie and the book was extremely well received. The reviews on this novel \u2018The Cat\u2019s Table\u2019 seem mixed although my review is straightforward. It bored me to tears. Why I even finished it I will never know. The story revolves around a few adolescences on an ocean liner set sail from Colombo headed for Britain. I believe it was set in the late fortie The author\u2019s most famous claim to fame is his novel \u2018The English Patient\u2019 which when on to become a successful movie at the box office. That was a good movie and the book was extremely well received. The reviews on this novel \u2018The Cat\u2019s Table\u2019 seem mixed although my review is straightforward. It bored me to tears. Why I even finished it I will never know. The story revolves around a few adolescences on an ocean liner set sail from Colombo headed for Britain. I believe it was set in the late forties or early fifties, can\u2019t remember and really don\u2019t care. Being virtually without supervision, they get themselves into all kinds of trouble and interact with a whole strew of odd and interesting characters. At least that is the premise though I guess I missed the \u2018interesting\u2019 parts. It is rumoured to be semi-autobiographical however the author denies it with a sly grin. Some people seem to find this interesting. On the contrary I could not possibly care less about that tidbit of useless information, the book still stunk! This novel wasted my time. There it is...I said it. John Archibald, March 2012 ...more Read this quiet, poignant book for the quality of its prose, but prepare to be surprised by the force of its plot. The Cat's Table is the story of a three-week sea voyage on the ocean liner Oronsay, as seen through the eyes of 11-year old Michael. It is 1954 and Michael has set sail from his native Colombo, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) en route to London, where his mother awaits. It is not unlike the voyage the author took in the same era, at the same age as his main character, though the author's end Read this quiet, poignant book for the quality of its prose, but prepare to be surprised by the force of its plot. The Cat's Table is the story of a three-week sea voyage on the ocean liner Oronsay, as seen through the eyes of 11-year old Michael. It is 1954 and Michael has set sail from his native Colombo, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) en route to London, where his mother awaits. It is not unlike the voyage the author took in the same era, at the same age as his main character, though the author's end notes assure the reader that this is a work of fiction. Although Michael makes the journey alone, he is monitored lightly by an aunt who is keen to keep her distance from the lower class passengers (Michael is traveling, if not in steerage, then at the lower end of second class) and lovingly by an older cousin, Emily, whose secrets Michael stumbles upon in the course of this brief but life-altering journey. The ship, Oronsay, is a universe in Limbo, an in-between world. Its passengers tarry there, being slowly transported between continents, through several seas, into uncertainty and new lives, or perhaps returning to former lives after many years away. It is a complete world, with social classes, economics, politics, geography, love, crime and death. It is at the \"Cat's Table\"- the dining room assignment that is farthest from the enviable situation of the Captain's Table- that Michael, nicknamed Mynah, befriends Cassius and Ramadhin, two boys also traveling alone from Ceylon. The three boys do what comes naturally to pre-teens confined to large boat for weeks on end: they mischieve with gusto. Their insignificance as passengers renders them nearly invisible to the ship's crew, so they explore at all hours of the night, discovering a shackled prisoner who is brought the deck late every night, a young women who trains on her roller-skates in the pre-dawn stillness of the dining room, a mural of naked women gracing the engine room. Michael even aids robbery in the high seas when he is coated in motor oil and sent slithering through a small window to open the door to a well-mannered thief. The boys risk several lives in their greatest shenanigan, which occurs during a raging storm. While the rest of the passengers are focused on the end of their journey and the start of their new lives in Europe, the trio of boys lives entirely in the present. It is through Mynah's keen awareness of the now that we come to know a host of fascinating and bizarre characters. And it is through the voice of the narrator, Michael/Mynah as an adult, that we realize the profound importance these three weeks and these characters have on Michael's intellectual and emotional development. As the Oronsay advances toward England, the narrative shifts more often from the voyage to Michael's teenage years and young adulthood. He reveals gradually what happens to his partners in adventure, Cassius and Ramhadin, and leads us into his middle years and the present. It is as gentle a transition as sailing on a calm sea. At first it seems as if the scenery never alters until suddenly land looms ahead. You realize a tremendous shift has taken place, that cultures and climates have been transformed in the slow change of latitude. Ondaatje's writing is so beautiful; it is contemplative, effortless, supple and elegant. Not a word feels superfluous. No emotion is overwritten, no scene overly-dramatized. He moves quietly but steadily forward, never leading, just merely taking the first step that you willingly follow. Flawless. ...more Perhaps I'd better start with the novel in case it appears inconsequential, just tagged on to the end as an afterthought. I might give the impression that it was lacking in some way, that it failed to engage me. Not so, not so. It was as wondrous as I'd hoped and wished for, maintaining a breathtaking balance between re-enacting the naivety of that eleven year old on the boat and the seasoned hindsight of the man that he became. But there was something else that intrigued me that has no great be Perhaps I'd better start with the novel in case it appears inconsequential, just tagged on to the end as an afterthought. I might give the impression that it was lacking in some way, that it failed to engage me. Not so, not so. It was as wondrous as I'd hoped and wished for, maintaining a breathtaking balance between re-enacting the naivety of that eleven year old on the boat and the seasoned hindsight of the man that he became. But there was something else that intrigued me that has no great bearing on the novel or its narrator. Young Michael - he of the novel, who, we're told, is not necessarily identical with the author, even though some events in their lives, and the names, are parallel - travels from Colombo to Great Britain on the Oronsay . Why, I wondered, would the Orient line, sailing here between Australia and Britain, name this ship after a small and fairly obscure Inner Hebridean island? At first I thought that it must have been built at John Brown's or the Napier yard in Clydebank, but when I googled it, I found that it in fact came from Vickers Armstrong at Barrow. BUT this was Oronsay II. The original Oronsay, built in 1925, came indeed from John Brown Ltd at Clydebank. She was converted to a troop transporter in 1939, and was torpedoed in 1942 while on a voyage from Capetown, carrying a curiously mixed cargo of oranges, copper and 'Distressed British Seamen' which seems to have been an official title, all capitalized. (See: http://www.theshipslist.com/ships/des... ) The original ship's provenance may, I suppose, go some way to explaining her name. And according to this website where you can see lots of pictures of SS Oronsay the 1951 liner actually became known as the ship with a Scottish heritage - no doubt there was a subtle use of tartan in the decor. (Can tartan ever be subtle?) I'm sure, too, that shipping lines would be glad to associate their vessels with the fine tradition of Scottish engineering. It just sits a little oddly, I felt, a ship that was sailing the world, with such a local name, one more suitable for the ferries that serve the Hebrides, I'd have thought, or one of the Clyde paddle steamers that provided my favourite day out when I was a wee one. So this review turns out to have far more to do with Ondaatje's novel than I'd thought myself when I started out on my journey. Because research into the name was the key to some memories of my own sea travel as a child. That Clyde paddle steamer: well, of course the famous one is the Waverley, which has survived, lovingly restored by enthusiasts: you can see the results here . And thanks to the Wonders of Modern Communication Technology, there's even a YouTube clip of the steam engine which I always found mesmerising, the first place to go on the trip to Greenock, Gourock and Dunoon. It's odd the things that give us a warm fuzzy feeling isn't it? And shipbuilding in Clydebank was the foundation of our family: my dad did his apprenticeship and later worked as an engineer (and lost most of his hearing) in the family firm of D & J Tullis , which supplied and fitted the ships with their large laundry machines. Anyway, I suppose I ought to get back to a book review. There's the gorgeous prose, and there's the voice that is sweetly melancholic, but curious too about this boy he once was. And then there is the brilliant structure: at almost exactly the half-way point of the novel, just at the very moment when you look to see how many more pages there are, and wonder how many more wild and entertaining adventures the narrator can have on board ship, suddenly you are pulled forward in time and it becomes clear that the boyhood friendships made in the hotbed of the enclosed ship's company not only continue into later life, but are of utmost significance to the narrator. Then three quarters of the way through, when you're beginning to wonder quite where the significance lies, the tension is ratched up a further notch with a mysterious letter..... Brilliantly done. ...more ~*~ For this review and others, visit the EditorialEyes Blog . ~*~ 5 out of 5 Amid the excitement surrounding the release of George R.R. Martin\u2019s newest book, A Dance with Dragons, I also heard a common complaint: Martin, many of his truest fans contend, takes far too long between installments, leaving readers hanging for years at a time. Michael Ondaatje, one of Canada\u2019s literary superstars, doesn\u2019t seem to garner the same complaint, despite breaks of five to eight years between titles. His admirers ~*~ For this review and others, visit the EditorialEyes Blog . ~*~ 5 out of 5 Amid the excitement surrounding the release of George R.R. Martin\u2019s newest book, A Dance with Dragons, I also heard a common complaint: Martin, many of his truest fans contend, takes far too long between installments, leaving readers hanging for years at a time. Michael Ondaatje, one of Canada\u2019s literary superstars, doesn\u2019t seem to garner the same complaint, despite breaks of five to eight years between titles. His admirers await his books with patient anticipation. In return, Ondaatje crafts works such as The Cat\u2019s Table, one of those rare literary achievements that combines page-turning storytelling with perfectly shaped prose. Each word and each scene has been chosen with care, and the book comes together in a harmony of ideas, memories, and narratives. I say narratives because The Cat\u2019s Table encompasses many stories: in its seemingly straightforward telling of a boy\u2019s 21 days on a ship bound from Sri Lanka to England, its deeply complex characters offer glimpses of chance encounters and intermingled lives. The book is a palimpsest, the story of an 11-year-old boy named Michael, told by his older self who happens to be a well-known writer, written by Michael Ondaatje, who includes a disclaimer that while he took a similar trip as a boy, this work is purely fictional. These three Michaels intersect with one another in a memory play seen through the lens of the ship. The language and reflections are mature: this is the understanding only an adult can bring when he looks back at himself years later, trying to come to grips with how the smallest of actions can ripple through many lives over many years. The titular Cat\u2019s Table is the opposite of the Captain\u2019s Table, the least prestigious spot in the dining room. The characters who gather around it pass through young Michael\u2019s shipbound existence, from his two contemporaries who raise hell with him all over the ship to the adults at the table, including Mr. Mazappa, the piano teacher with two names, Mr. Hastie, the keeper of the kennels, and Miss Lesqueti, the shrinking wallflower who is more than she appears to be. Michael\u2019s beautiful older cousin Emily moves in and out of the narrative as well, a member of the upper decks and upper classes who finds herself pulled into the swirling activity below. You get the sense that an entire novel could be devoted to any one of these subsidiary characters, even though they figure in only small ways in Michael\u2019s story. Without ever belabouring a description, Ondaatje fills the reader\u2019s world with the sights, sounds, and smells of the ship and the ports it slips through. He also inverts the idea of the ship as a closed-off setting. This ain\u2019t no bottle episode. The ship is a wonderland with myriad decks and enough forbidden places to keep a gang of three boys busy for weeks. It is peopled by ailing millionaires, live pigeons, unseen violinists, and the prisoner, a mysterious figure whose close-guarded nightly walks become a focal point for the boys, giving their days structure and their imaginations fodder. And there is always the sense that there is more to see, more to hear and overhear, than anything Michael and his friends can comprehend. The boys end up everywhere from the captain\u2019s quarters to the deepest bowels of the ship, discovering hidden gardens with hidden poisons, exploring port towns, and hiding in lifeboats to intrude ever so gently upon the people passing by. In Michael\u2019s world, the adults and the upper classes float along without changing or effecting change. They play bridge and vie to be toasted by one another at the Captain\u2019s Table, but they also miss the excitement happening all around them. They\u2019re thrilled by a mind reader while the boys see how that mind reader accomplishes his supposed magic. They miss entirely the nighttime passage through the Suez Canal, while the boys see everything, make fleeting contact through waves and shouts with the people on land, and witness their passage out of the East and into the West, out of their old world and into something new. Memory and time are as fluid as the ocean the ship traverses, a moment in childhood with momentum but no fixed address. The narrative is overall a linear one, starting at the beginning of the journey, ending when the Oronsay arrives in England, but this is also a collection of stories. As the older Michael reflects on a particular character, events jump forward in time, following that character\u2019s interaction with Michael throughout the years before looping back to pick up where we left off on the ship. We arrive at the end of the book a little wiser, a little changed, just as the characters at the Cat\u2019s Table are. Without falling into the triteness of a typical coming-of-age story, The Cat\u2019s Table offers a refined, note-perfect journey of how three weeks can alter the course of lives. And it\u2019s some damned good storytelling too. I genuinely cared for these people and their misadventures, and when it was time to depart for other shores, I was left hoping that I would run into them again. ...more The Cat's Table brought me back again to how much I love Michael Ondaatje 's writing. I think that how much you like this book depends very much on how much you like Ondaatje generally. The story is simple: a young boy's three week boat voyage in the 1950s from Sri Lanka to England, his friendships with two boys his age, his connection with a young girl on the boat, and various other relationships formed there and their echoes over the years after. Michael (despite the similarities of name and plac The Cat's Table brought me back again to how much I love Michael Ondaatje 's writing. I think that how much you like this book depends very much on how much you like Ondaatje generally. The story is simple: a young boy's three week boat voyage in the 1950s from Sri Lanka to England, his friendships with two boys his age, his connection with a young girl on the boat, and various other relationships formed there and their echoes over the years after. Michael (despite the similarities of name and place, the author says this is in no way a memoir) is on his way to England to see his mother whom he has not seen for 4 or 5 years and attend school. The journey is his journey not only from one place to another-a lush, gorgeous but colonized place to a powerful if dreary and dull place in which he will always feel an outsider-but from one life to another, a child at home to an adolescent in an alien world. The boat is the place where he discovers fear, friendship, courage, sexuality, criminality, wisdom, kindness, and cruelty. It is a liminal place in which anything becomes possible, a crucible in which personalities are formed, or deformed. But the feeling I had reading the book was of sitting comfortably with family or friends and being told stories. I felt like a child hearing the adventure stories of another child (even if most of his adventures were self-created and magnified through the natural exuberance of childhood). I loved every minute of this-this brief trip on shore, the walks taken by the ship's prisoner, the older men's card games. The cadence of the language enthralled me. The book is more like a prose poem, a meditation on the crossing over from childhood to adulthood, from being at home in the world to feeling forever at least slightly alienated. There are political implications as well as personal ones. It is like a musical piece with motifs that are repeated with variations. Even on land, there is talk of \"uncharted water,\" the \"green light\" of the ocean reappears several times in London, the sea knots echo in emotional \"knots\" tied later (by the sister of the boy who tied the actual knots on the boat). Most of all, the sentences are beautiful gems that I wanted to carve into my heart so I could hold on to them forever. A few of my favorites: \"In any case, this was how she met The Hyderabad Mind and how she went on to live a life different from the one that was expected.\" \"Adults are always prepared for the gradual or sudden swerve in an oncoming story.\" \"So we came to understand that small and important thing, that our lives could be large with interesting strangers who would pass us without any personal involvement.\" \"And whatever became of our relationship, the ups and downs of its seas, we improved as well as damaged each other...\" But as much as I love these sentences, I am reminded of how as a child (and even now) eagerly collected shells and pebbles at the beach only to find them sadly drained of their life away from the ocean. These phrases really only shimmer in the ocean of this book. As I said, if you like Ondaatje's writing, you will like this book. ...more How could i not love a book that starts with a quote from Joseph Conrad \"Youth\" ? The hero of that short story is a wide eyed innocent in love with the sea and laying eyes for the first time on the mystery and vibrant life of the Orient. Mirroring this story, The Cat's Table is not about cats, but about the voyage of an 11 year old boy from the exuberant life of Sri Lanka to the cold shores of England. It taps into the magic of the ocean liner, from the Titanic, to Lusitania, to movies like La Le How could i not love a book that starts with a quote from Joseph Conrad \"Youth\" ? The hero of that short story is a wide eyed innocent in love with the sea and laying eyes for the first time on the mystery and vibrant life of the Orient. Mirroring this story, The Cat's Table is not about cats, but about the voyage of an 11 year old boy from the exuberant life of Sri Lanka to the cold shores of England. It taps into the magic of the ocean liner, from the Titanic, to Lusitania, to movies like La Leggenda del Pianista sul'Oceano or Ship of Fools. When Michael first lays eyes on it, the Oronsay is a floating castle, full of lights and wonderful things to explore, people to know and stories to be listened to. I checked with google and there actually was a liner named Oronsay, although Ondaatje claims it is no relation to the one in the book The first part of the book, from Colombo to Port Said is a boys adventure, as Michael and his two new friends run around all over the ship with little concern for the world of adults. The are really wild, something that was still possible in the 1950's when a boy could escape constant supervision by an adult eye. They are aptly called \"feral\" by the author, these free-range urchins that are harder to catch than quicksilver: 'The Oronsay tribe \u2013 irresponsible and wiolent.\u2019 After Port Said, the story turns maudlin and sometimes leaves the ship to explore the later life of some of the actors as they leave childhood and try to find new meanings to the events from the voyage. There will be love, and loss and loneliness and some explanation of the central mystery of the man in chains. As usual Ondaatje spins his magic web of words and paints vibrant tableaux of powerful storms in the Indian Ocean, exotic markets in Aden or the night crossing of the Suez Canal. Secondary characters are sketched with attention to details and a loving touch. Why the Cat's Table? What is so interesting about the lowest place on the social scale? A key is offered in this passage: \"That was a small lesson I learned on the journey. What is interesting and important happens mostly in secret, in places where there is no power. Nothing much of lasting value ever happens at the head table, held together by a familiar rhetoric. Those who already have power continue to glide along the familiar rut they have made for themselves.\" I , for one, am sold on this topic. ...more There was a time I thought Michael Ondaatje was the kind of writer that could spin gold out of any straw story like a literary Rumpelstiltskin. 'Coming Through Slaughter'- a work of genius. 'In the Skin of a Lion'- damn close. 'Divisadero'- a little too precious to be a 5-star book but still worthy of a read. But THIS? Is this the law of diminishing returns? The story of a boy's journey by (the castle of a) ship from Sri Lanka to London it apes the author's own experiences and should surely ther There was a time I thought Michael Ondaatje was the kind of writer that could spin gold out of any straw story like a literary Rumpelstiltskin. 'Coming Through Slaughter'- a work of genius. 'In the Skin of a Lion'- damn close. 'Divisadero'- a little too precious to be a 5-star book but still worthy of a read. But THIS? Is this the law of diminishing returns? The story of a boy's journey by (the castle of a) ship from Sri Lanka to London it apes the author's own experiences and should surely therefore be more of a winner than Coming Through Slaughter's re-tracing of the life of jazz genius Buddy Bolden from a time before Ondaatje was born. But it's trite, poorly written (for a poet of Ondaatje's calibre) and loses itself in that bermuda triangle of poor characterisation, uneven plot and imperfect structure. A real shame as there are moments where you get to glimpse the book it is trying to be, but really it is more cat litter than cat that got the cream. ...more Goodreads sadly ate my first review, and I do not like having to rehash my thoughts, but this exquisite little gem of a novel certainly deserves an effort. I found it faultless, filled with wonderful vignettes, a lot of wisdom and precious observations. It will be my gift of choice for special friends from now on. I just wish I would have read this book on a journey, maybe even on a sea journey. To imagine myself reclining on a deck chair, sighing over a phrase or a chapter and then to lift my e Goodreads sadly ate my first review, and I do not like having to rehash my thoughts, but this exquisite little gem of a novel certainly deserves an effort. I found it faultless, filled with wonderful vignettes, a lot of wisdom and precious observations. It will be my gift of choice for special friends from now on. I just wish I would have read this book on a journey, maybe even on a sea journey. To imagine myself reclining on a deck chair, sighing over a phrase or a chapter and then to lift my eyes to the sea and the horizon... Well, I'm a romantic at heart and I simply loved the colorful characters seated around the Cat's Table and probably identified most with unfathomable Miss Lasqueti: \"Most afternoons I caught a glimpse of her in the shadows of B Deck, in a deckchair. She always had in her posession a copy of The Magic Mountain, but no one ever saw her reading it. Miss Lasqueti consumed mostly crime thrillers, which constantly seemed to disappoint her. I suspect that for her the world was more accidental than any book's plot. Twice I saw her so irritated by a mystery that she half rose from the shadow of her chair and flung the paperback over the railing into the sea.\" ...more Dugo sam i \u017earko \u017eeljela pro\u010ditati ovu knjigu, ali nekako me malo razo\u010darala... Onako, ok je.. Kroz o\u010di jedanaestogodi\u0161njeg dje\u010daka pratimo putovanje prekooceanskim brodom, '50-ih god. pro\u0161log stolj. od Cejlona do Velike Britanije... \"Ma\u010dji stol\" naziv je stola u dnu blagavaonice za kojim je smje\u0161ten glavni junak, njegova dva prijatelja i skupina specifi\u010dnih, odraslih likova. I tako ta tri dje\u010daka tijekom putovanja promatraju, oslu\u0161kuju ljude i doga\u0111aje na brodu.. A ljudi i doga\u0111aja ima zaista i Dugo sam i \u017earko \u017eeljela pro\u010ditati ovu knjigu, ali nekako me malo razo\u010darala... Onako, ok je.. Kroz o\u010di jedanaestogodi\u0161njeg dje\u010daka pratimo putovanje prekooceanskim brodom, '50-ih god. pro\u0161log stolj. od Cejlona do Velike Britanije... \"Ma\u010dji stol\" naziv je stola u dnu blagavaonice za kojim je smje\u0161ten glavni junak, njegova dva prijatelja i skupina specifi\u010dnih, odraslih likova. I tako ta tri dje\u010daka tijekom putovanja promatraju, oslu\u0161kuju ljude i doga\u0111aje na brodu.. A ljudi i doga\u0111aja ima zaista interesantnih...Kroz knjigu, djelomi\u010dno, pratimo i daljnji tijek \u017eivota glavnog junaka i to onaj dio koji je, donekle, ostao povezan sa ljudima koje je upoznao na brodu. Prevladavaju opisi, malo, jako malo dijaloga, ali se prili\u010dno lagano \u010dita.. Tako da bi ovo bila knjiga za neku mirnu, misaonu fazu u \u017eivotu pojedinca.. ;) ...more Acquiring wealth he has also acquired a complete faith in the advancements of Europe. Perhaps this would prove to be his fatal flaw. The last time I treated with a work such as this was in 2013 with Mr. Vertigo , back when my biggest concern was whether or not one could make a switch from a career in engineering to that in English after three-and-a-half years of study with maximum efficiency and a minimum of capital. I've moved on from that to today's worries about jobs and health insurance and Acquiring wealth he has also acquired a complete faith in the advancements of Europe. Perhaps this would prove to be his fatal flaw. The last time I treated with a work such as this was in 2013 with Mr. Vertigo , back when my biggest concern was whether or not one could make a switch from a career in engineering to that in English after three-and-a-half years of study with maximum efficiency and a minimum of capital. I've moved on from that to today's worries about jobs and health insurance and moving out, as well as from general aspirations of crowd pleasing to a commitment to reading the authors who actually need the boost. It's made for a 60-70% drop in votes, but I can guarantee any reviewer would get a similar reaction if they made a similar choice. Lucky for me, I've returned to the pre-Goodreads mentality where I read for the sake of reading, the only differences now being that I am better able to word my reactions in front of a small but appreciatively loyal audience. If there's anything I'm glad hasn't changed, it's that people are still writing books for a younger audience that they would want to read themselves. I chalk this work's low rating up to those adults who have been trying to chop off their feet to appease others heads for so long, they can no longer recognize what's good for them on the basic levels of wonder and adventure and respect for those who are strange, impoverished, and all too often vulnerable. Another reason for why those aged among us may shy away from literature for the young is that it is harder to crystallize hegemonic standards of normality when one cannot use rape and murder and slurs as plot devices or character development. One can try one's best when adapting a work for media, as is in the case of Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children 's white on white on white visual ensemble, but here in the writing of Ondaatje, you have words such as Arab and Sri Lanka and phrases that intimate at the hierarchy of colonization and wouldn't think for a second to justify it, all of which makes it much harder to 'normalize' for a white audience if one has any aspirations to respect the source material. I suppose this is why Peregrine has an adaptation and this one does not, although both were published in 2011 and have enough action and drama and aesthetic possibility to spare. In any case, if a movie is ever made ( The English Patient in this quarter), I would hope that there would be an equal measure of so called adults and so called children in the audience. The world needs more of such works if there is any hope of a new generation of human being raised rather than cut and pressed and squeezed down the factory line of parents believing they own their offspring body and soul. In a roundabout way, I'm saying that I liked this. The author could have made more of an effort in the character as plot development/women as plot device category, but there were enough unique cases on each side of the indoctrinated gender divide that, for once, I would believe someone if they were to say Ondaatje was expressing the impossibility of ever truly knowing another. That, and the story never firmly once and for all put a girlfriend in the refrigerator. Meta is something I've learned to love on a general level, but when put to a use like that, I can't help but put my stamp of approval on a narrative, in many ways, is more mature than anything an R or X rated film can muster. Broken heart, you timeless wonder. What a small place to be. ...more About a week after goodreads friend Lisa Shorney added the title to her TBR list, I saw this book at the library and decided to borrow it. A breath of fresh air! Full of surprising imagery and strange words like \u201ccoelacanth\u201d and \u201ctrireme\u201d. This is the first book by Michael Ondaatje that I have ever read and it probably won\u2019t be my last. I guess he is best known for The English Patient (1992) and other prose works but Ondaatje has also published at least 11 volumes of poetry, and a poetic style i About a week after goodreads friend Lisa Shorney added the title to her TBR list, I saw this book at the library and decided to borrow it. A breath of fresh air! Full of surprising imagery and strange words like \u201ccoelacanth\u201d and \u201ctrireme\u201d. This is the first book by Michael Ondaatje that I have ever read and it probably won\u2019t be my last. I guess he is best known for The English Patient (1992) and other prose works but Ondaatje has also published at least 11 volumes of poetry, and a poetic style informs this book. In the early 1950s three 11/12-year-old boys who are strangers to each other become fast friends during a 21-day voyage from Colombo (in Sri Lanka) to England aboard the ship Oronsay. What Mynah, Cassius, and Ramadhin have in common is that each of them make the journey unaccompanied by parents, and all are assigned to enjoy their meals at \u201cthe cat\u2019s table\u201d---a potluck group of miscellaneous individuals intentionally seated far from the captain\u2019s table. Years later, Mynah becomes a successful writer and this adventuresome tale is his account of the fun, foolishness, danger, and intrigue of their time together, and the imprints it left on his soul. \u201cThat was a small lesson I learned on the journey. What is interesting and important happens mostly in secret, in places where there is no power. Nothing much of lasting value ever happens at the head table, held together by a familiar rhetoric. Those who already have power continue to glide along the familiar rut they have made for themselves.\u201d (page 75) ...more I finished Michael Ondaatje's \"The Cat's Table\" today. Gorgeous. He's an absolute master of prose, imo. Though he writes that the book is fiction, it reads almost as a mix of an autobiographical remembrance of a series of events (centered around a ship voyage from Ceylon to Britain when the protagonist is 11yo) & musings on how seemingly small events, chance encounters, & memories can alter the path of one's life. Part seems so real, so grounded in reality, yet much of the writing has th I finished Michael Ondaatje's \"The Cat's Table\" today. Gorgeous. He's an absolute master of prose, imo. Though he writes that the book is fiction, it reads almost as a mix of an autobiographical remembrance of a series of events (centered around a ship voyage from Ceylon to Britain when the protagonist is 11yo) & musings on how seemingly small events, chance encounters, & memories can alter the path of one's life. Part seems so real, so grounded in reality, yet much of the writing has the dreamy, hazy quality of memories from a long time ago, where you might wonder if you're remembering something as it happened or as you think or wanted it to happen. Some scathingly funny sections had me chuckling, while other sections were more somber & serious & had me musing.... Also, all through reading it, I kept thinking that if I could have someone who would write my diaries for me, capture a myriad of fleeting moments, I'd want Michael Ondaatje to be the one writing mine. (It doesn't matter that I don't keep a diary or a journal, or that it would be strange to have someone else putting my memories on paper through a mind meld or something; I would just want him writing, burnishing, perfecting these little life mosaics of mine.) I will make note that I read his book \"The English Patient\" many years ago. While I adored his prose in that book, I didn't care for the story itself (at all). I'm so glad I gave him another try because I was just transported & blown away by \"The Cat's Table\". Loved it. Gorgeous, luscious, & highly recommended. ...more I might be biased in this review, being a fellow colonial from Sri Lanka who also wrote a novel about three young men that left the old country to seek their fortunes abroad. But my novel, The Ulysses Man, began in 1961 and Ondaatje\u2019s is set in 1954, and I realized that a lot happened to change that country and its people in-between. While I saw the island slide into the abyss of civil war, Ondaatje left when the colony was still strong and there was much to give up in leaving. A sea voyage, fre I might be biased in this review, being a fellow colonial from Sri Lanka who also wrote a novel about three young men that left the old country to seek their fortunes abroad. But my novel, The Ulysses Man, began in 1961 and Ondaatje\u2019s is set in 1954, and I realized that a lot happened to change that country and its people in-between. While I saw the island slide into the abyss of civil war, Ondaatje left when the colony was still strong and there was much to give up in leaving. A sea voyage, free of parental control, for pre-teen kids must be a liberating experience, and yet it is a restricted one because they are now in another relationship with the adults, living around them in confining quarters and bound by the rules of the ship. To emphasise this fact, Michael, the narrator, and his friends Cassius and Ramadhin are relegated to the Cat\u2019s Table, the lowest rank in the hierarchy of the dining room. As typical kids, they grab their freedom by smoking in various nooks and crannies, smuggling a dog on board, stealing goodies from the First Class section, and even lashing their puny bodies to a mast during a storm to feel its deathly wrath. Viewed from the child\u2019s perspective, the adults are full of secrets; allegiances form and unravel as the ship heads from Ceylon to England via the Suez Canal. Ondaatje paints a colourful cast of characters: the reclusive millionaire seeking a remedy for hydrophobia; the teacher who keeps Ceylon alive in his mind by burning a hemp rope in his cabin; the botanist with a garden of exotic plants in the hold, not all of them benign; the dog trainer who plays Bridge at night in Michael\u2019s cabin; the spinsters on the hunt for an eligible bachelor; the dumb man and the deaf girl with their secret identities; the mysterious prisoner who walks the decks in chains at night. The sea voyage and the events that transpire aboard are pivotal events in the three boys\u2019 lives, for their futures are shaped by this journey: Michael, the insightful observer, becomes a writer (autobiographical, I think), Cassius evolves into a loud, distrustful artist and Ramadhin\u2019s legacy haunts his survivors. The novel branches out into the future intermittently, to capture the lives of some of the other players in the \u201cmystery\u201d that occurred on the voyage, leaving Michael to put the pieces together as an adult and understand the plot and its consequences, something he never quite got as a child. I found this the easiest to read of Ondaatje\u2019s novels. The style is personal and simple, devoid of poetical meandering. The flow is based on memory and various periods of the narrator\u2019s life are explored at random and anchored back to that fateful sea voyage. The passage through the Suez Canal is for the history books given that we skip right over that route in an airplane these days. And yet Ondaatje\u2019s use of gesture is powerful, where, for instance, the deliberate shifting of a woman\u2019s shoulder strap heralds the ending of a relationship. And his use of colonial words like \u201cBlaggard,\u201d which I can\u2019t find in a North American dictionary, is delicious! The voyagers on the ship never really find a permanent home in their later years. \u201cWe don\u2019t belong anywhere, I guess,\u201d says the adult Michael to fellow shipmate and cousin, Emily, years later on a remote island in Western Canada where she lives alone. My novel too concluded with home being more a state of mind than a place for those who left. And in The Cat\u2019s Table, I wondered if the mysterious prisoner\u2019s final act which sets him adrift into an undefined future is the metaphor for all those who leave their nests: one of being consigned to the uncertain seas of fortune? ...more Elegiac, enigmatic, eloquent, elegant, evocative, ethereal. And another E for exemplary. Award-winning author Michael Ondaatje is certainly one of the most commanding, gifted, and original authors alive today, a poetic and lyrical writer who constructs stories with piquant, vivid imagery and interleaving, nonlinear storylines, and presents subtle motifs throughout his stories that bring you closer and closer to the emotional core of his characters. This novel has a circular feel, a sense of desc Elegiac, enigmatic, eloquent, elegant, evocative, ethereal. And another E for exemplary. Award-winning author Michael Ondaatje is certainly one of the most commanding, gifted, and original authors alive today, a poetic and lyrical writer who constructs stories with piquant, vivid imagery and interleaving, nonlinear storylines, and presents subtle motifs throughout his stories that bring you closer and closer to the emotional core of his characters. This novel has a circular feel, a sense of descending into deeper cavities and ascending from them, too. Although not a character-driven or plot-driven story, the cast is richly exotic, with a Dickensian resonance, and each character is indelibly painted and imprinted on the reader's eye and ear. As you move closer to the close of the novel, you will feel it mounting and ripening; danger, tension, and internal struggles burst like sunset over a ruthless day. As the cover suggests, much of THE CAT'S TABLE takes place on a ship, a journey in the 1950's where the protagonist moves from his home in Ceylon (Sri Lanka since 1972) to England. At only 11, he is immersed in childhood, and his perspective of adults, especially when reflected upon decades later, is shrouded in doubt, dreams, fantasy, longing, and desire. Ondaatje limns the thin line between contrasts, such as childhood/adulthood, freedom/captivity, memory/history, fact/fiction. This is a highly interpretive novel, with few concrete answers, a richly open-ended journey that, like much distinguished and superlative literature, invites the reader to weave his/her own personal experiences with the narrative at hand. The text is like resin in the hands'turning the pages of the book, I sensed the underground botanical garden in the bowels of the ship, the smell of the burning hemp from one passenger's cabin, the seawater splashing on the deck. There's an effect of expansiveness mixed with confinement throughout, which is, to this reader, the very thrill of this book. You will imagine the starry black sky and a crescent moon, the briny odor of the sea, the lanterns swaying and twinkling like stars, the whistles and calls of the maritime, the shadowy passageways underground. This beautiful, epic story feels both close and faraway, like our memories. ...more November 1, 2011: I'm reading The Cat's Table . My husband is listening to it on audio book. It's a race. November 9, 2011: My husband won the race. I ended up borrowing his audio book and alternatively listening to and reading the novel. We both enjoyed listening to the texture and cadence of Ondaatje's voice. My husband finds it a pleasure to hear a book read by its author. The Cat's Table takes place in a mere 21 days, but in those few weeks, a lifetime occurs. This novel captures what I loved bes November 1, 2011: I'm reading The Cat's Table . My husband is listening to it on audio book. It's a race. November 9, 2011: My husband won the race. I ended up borrowing his audio book and alternatively listening to and reading the novel. We both enjoyed listening to the texture and cadence of Ondaatje's voice. My husband finds it a pleasure to hear a book read by its author. The Cat's Table takes place in a mere 21 days, but in those few weeks, a lifetime occurs. This novel captures what I loved best about Ondaatje's earlier work, The English Patient : A group of people \"so oddly aligned, [who]...would never see [each other] again\", yet continue to feel a love and longing for those with whom they had experienced a brief, but intense, period of time. The journey by boat adds to the sense of romance and Ondaatje's language contributes to the glamour. The book has a few contradictory moments and mysterious characters that are left to the reader's imagination to resolve. ...more<---C>Michael Ondaatje</---C>", "Title": "The Cat's Table"},
