{"Comments": "Am I the only one who thought this is a mishmash of H.P. Lovecraft\u2019s \u201cThe Rats in the Walls\u201d and the classic wolf-riddled admonitory bedtime stories like \u201cLittle Red Riding Hood\u201d and \u201cThe Boy Who Cried Wolf\u201d? <+++>The Wolves in the Walls</+++>, a collab work by <---A>Neil Gaiman</---A> and Dave McKean, is yet another landmark tale that speaks directly to young readers while teaching a few lessons like open communication in the family. SPOILER-ISH! Basically the story revolves around Lucy (<---B>aka the girl who cried wolf</---B>), w Am I the only one who thought this is a mishmash of H.P. Lovecraft\u2019s \u201cThe Rats in the Walls\u201d and the classic wolf-riddled admonitory bedtime stories like \u201cLittle Red Riding Hood\u201d and \u201cThe Boy Who Cried Wolf\u201d? <+++>The Wolves in the Walls</+++>, a collab work by Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean, is yet another landmark tale that speaks directly to young readers while teaching a few lessons like open communication in the family. SPOILER-ISH! Basically the story revolves around Lucy (aka the girl who cried wolf), who tells her family about the wolves lurking behind the wallpapers. Her relatives however dismissed her fears as a product of her overactive imagination, and they are actually too engrossed into their own worlds to deal with Lucy: her mother (like any mother) is a personification of domestic order,<---M> her oblivious father plays tuba</---M>, and her annoying brother plays video games. Nobody believes her\u2026until the wolves do plunge out of the walls, invading the house and rendering the family homeless. Lucy is the one who acts to glue the family together. With a Coralinesque bravery and a simple strategy, she goes back to save her stranded toy, Pig Puppet, and in the process they are able to get their house back. The characters\u2014at least in the part of the relatives\u2014are reminiscent of the people in The Day I Swapped my Dad with Two Goldfish. The hardnosed heroine reminds me of Coraline, though there are numerous differences between them. It\u2019s a pretty rad read all in all, though of course I\u2019ll appreciate it more if I\u2019m a kid. :p With Lucy hearing those noises, I imagine it striking a chord with a lot of kids, since the very scene embody common fears of a child. There are significant lessons embedded in the storyline as well, making the story weightier. I\u2019ve learned that this tale is conceived with help from the kids of the Gaiman and McKean. Maddy Gaiman has a nightmare of wolves scratching the walls of their house. Gaiman helped Maddy cope with this fear by storytelling, making strategies to escape from the wolves or something like that\u2014and these plotting became a part of the story. Liam McKean does only a little contribution though, and this is the image of the Pig Puppet. :p I think it\u2019s quite adorable, how they pieced together things from real kids and create something that kids can appreciate. :) ...<---F>more My kids really liked it</---F>. My eight year old son read it and thought it was good. He thought the illustrations were cool because the people had \"spooky\" eyes. I read it to my six year old son and my four year old daughter, and they liked it also. My little girl actually made me read it to her twice. Her only complaint was that the wolves were just regular old wolves and not werewolves. Go figure. I think some younger kids might find the story a little bit scary, so be careful if your kids spook ea My kids really liked it. My eight year old son read it and thought it was good. He thought the illustrations were cool because the people had \"spooky\" eyes. I read it to my six year old son and my four year old daughter, and they liked it also. My little girl actually made me read it to her twice. Her only complaint was that the wolves were just regular old wolves and not werewolves. Go figure. I think some younger kids might find the story a little bit scary, so be careful if your kids spook easily. ...more Haha, ok - the below review is one I wrote on Amazon.com in October of 2003. A review, I might add, that was found to be useful by 9 out of 9 Amazon members. Wow, I know, wow... I recently read this book outloud to my cousin and he LOVED it! The book is so intuitive and allows so much expression and voice intonation. The characters are distinct individuals and I could instantly find their voice. The art is simply amazing - I've been a fan of McKean for years. I really don't think kids should be u Haha, ok - the below review is one I wrote on Amazon.com in October of 2003. A review, I might add, that was found to be useful by 9 out of 9 Amazon members. Wow, I know, wow... I recently read this book outloud to my cousin and he LOVED it! The book is so intuitive and allows so much expression and voice intonation. The characters are distinct individuals and I could instantly find their voice. The art is simply amazing - I've been a fan of McKean for years. I really don't think kids should be underestimated in their intelligence to appreciate the interesting art that mixes striking artwork and snippits of pictures of real-life objects. There is more to the artwork than that, but that's another review. Some may think this book will frighten children, but it seems more like a healthy lesson in showing how silly such fear can be. The book is more about defeating fear, as the family was able to get rid of the wolves so easily. In the end the things that seem so scary (monsters under the bed, etc) are silly things that can be defeated with a simple look. And it doesn't hurt that this book is written cleverly and with wonderful style. I could go on and on about this book, but I will just sum up by saying: art is great, writing is great, story is fun and interesting and great for dramatic outloud readings, and the story is an excellent lesson in the silliness of childhood fears. ...more Cute and a little bit spooky kid's book by Neil Gaiman. The illustrations are done by the same guy who did the Sandman graphic novels, so it's got that familiar vibe. I guess you could call it a bit \"moody and atmospheric and artsy.\" It's very Gaimanish. Points for creating the word \"squossucks.\" This is a great story about parents not listening to their daughter and said daughter saving their home. It also has wolves...in the walls! It comes with a CD of Gaiman reading the story aloud, which I haven't heard yet...but if the readings from The Ocean at the End of the Lane I heard him give last week are anything to go by, it should be excellent. It is just the kind of story that should be read aloud, too, full of the rhythms and repeated refrains that fit with oral story telling. McKean's i This is a great story about parents not listening to their daughter and said daughter saving their home. It also has wolves...in the walls! It comes with a CD of Gaiman reading the story aloud, which I haven't heard yet...but if the readings from The Ocean at the End of the Lane I heard him give last week are anything to go by, it should be excellent. It is just the kind of story that should be read aloud, too, full of the rhythms and repeated refrains that fit with oral story telling. McKean's illustrations are not readily described, which is a good thing because that means they are not cliched or boring. They seem to be some kind of digital fusion of photographic and painted elements that create a sort of collage effect I've not really seen before. They are very evocative of mood and are just as excellent as the story, which makes a doubly excellent book, overall. Great stuff. ...more Watch out! something can be living in your walls, and when it comes out.. it's all over.. Simply brilliant. The Wolves in the Walls is a story about Lucy and her family, and how they have wolves living in their walls - or at least that's what Lucy thinks. She hears scratching and nibbling in the walls and is convinced that the noises are coming from the wolves. But everyone that Lucy tells (her mom, dad and brother,) dismisses her concerns with more believable explanations. Little do they know, Lucy isn't that far-fetched... The illustrations of this book are magnificent and amazing, making the entire The Wolves in the Walls is a story about Lucy and her family, and how they have wolves living in their walls - or at least that's what Lucy thinks. She hears scratching and nibbling in the walls and is convinced that the noises are coming from the wolves. But everyone that Lucy tells (her mom, dad and brother,) dismisses her concerns with more believable explanations. Little do they know, Lucy isn't that far-fetched... The illustrations of this book are magnificent and amazing, making the entire book a work of art. Interestingly, the wolves are cartoon, although their eyes, peering out of the walls, are photorealistic. Many of the illustrations look as though they have been sketched straight onto handmade paper, while others look as though they have been digitally altered. You could spend hours just taking in each intricate image. While this bizarre tale is certainly one worth reading, it's the artwork that really carries the book. I just love the piggy puppet!!!! ...more Book #1 REVEZATONA Soooo adorable! Once again, Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean combined their skills and created a lovely little illustrated book with a satisfatory plot. The illustrations are incredible, even though I'm not the biggest fan of this art style. This is the story of a little girl who starts hearing Wolves inside the walls of her house, but no one seems to believe her, until the wolves invade therir home. Of course, parents never listen to their children. I certainly enjoyed it. Spooky! Not for the faint of heart: my five year old almost had nightmares over this one. But it is so atmospheric and alluring, you can't stop reading! Dave McKean\u2019s illustrations are both haunting and hilarious at the same time. The wolves are portrayed as drawings made by a child, as it is implied on the front cover of the book. The wolves are also drawn in both a frightening and humorous way throughout the book. A great example of an image where the wolves display both terror and humor is in the image of the wolves being shown in creepy shadows as they are watching television and are laughing their heads off. Another advantage that this book Dave McKean\u2019s illustrations are both haunting and hilarious at the same time. The wolves are portrayed as drawings made by a child, as it is implied on the front cover of the book. The wolves are also drawn in both a frightening and humorous way throughout the book. A great example of an image where the wolves display both terror and humor is in the image of the wolves being shown in creepy shadows as they are watching television and are laughing their heads off. Another advantage that this book has is the heroine Lucy. Lucy knew that trouble was about to begin and tries to warn her family of the danger of staying in the house, even though her family do not believe her at first. Then, when the family is in danger of moving away, Lucy has the courage to save their house from the wolves, despite her family\u2019s objections, making her the heroine of the story. \u201cThe Wolves in the Walls\u201d have creative and scary illustrations by Dave McKean and have a strong heroine in Lucy, who saved her family from the wolves. However, the story falls flat on the scare factor as the wolves are only perceived as the usual unwelcome guests in the family\u2019s home and the story is slow-paced as it took time for the family to decide to rush back to their home. If you want a story that is both action-packed and scary, then read Neil Gaiman\u2019s other books such as, \u201cCoraline\u201d and \u201cThe Day I Swapped My Dad for Two Goldfish.\u201d From my Epinions review: http://www99.epinions.com/review/The_... ...more I am always looking for unique, quality storybooks to keep on my shelves long after my children have children. I struggle to find something special in between \"I love you Forever\" and \"Dumb Bunnies\". Sometimes I think I find it when I see breathtaking illustrations, often to be disappointed when the words aren't in the same league. This book absolutely has both. If your children get scared easily- mine do not- then I might skip this one. It is written in fairytale prose and that may keep some ki I am always looking for unique, quality storybooks to keep on my shelves long after my children have children. I struggle to find something special in between \"I love you Forever\" and \"Dumb Bunnies\". Sometimes I think I find it when I see breathtaking illustrations, often to be disappointed when the words aren't in the same league. This book absolutely has both. If your children get scared easily- mine do not- then I might skip this one. It is written in fairytale prose and that may keep some kids from thinking about it any more than the \"big bad wolf\", but on the other hand, the scratchy drawings of wolves coming out of the walls may stick with kids...after they've been tucked in. My family loved it, both adults, the 8 year old and the 5 year old. My son decided that writing books would be a \"cool thing to do\" when he grew up after reading this...that's gotta count for something! ...more A Summary/A Thoughtful Review: This dark and suspenseful picture book, more appropriate for an older audience of upper elementary to middle school-aged readers, will appeal to those looking for an eerier side of fantasy. Neil Gaimen writes a thrilling story about a anixous, yet curious girl, Lucy, who believes there are wolves living in the walls of her house. As her father, mother, and brother continue to deny the reality of this situation, Lucy, on the other hand, continues to hear \"sneaking, A Summary/A Thoughtful Review: This dark and suspenseful picture book, more appropriate for an older audience of upper elementary to middle school-aged readers, will appeal to those looking for an eerier side of fantasy. Neil Gaimen writes a thrilling story about a anixous, yet curious girl, Lucy, who believes there are wolves living in the walls of her house. As her father, mother, and brother continue to deny the reality of this situation, Lucy, on the other hand, continues to hear \"sneaking, creeping, crumpling noises...howling and yowling, a bumping and a thumping...\" from inside the walls of her house, but confides and finds comfort in her stuffed animal, pig-puppet. Her fear builds up until one night, \"the wolves came out of the walls.\" The family flees with fear out of the house, to their garden at the bottom of the hill as the wolves take over their house. As the family thinks of other locations to live (places without any walls), Lucy faces her greatest fear by returning to the house to rescue pig-puppet. In the end, there is a creative turn of events which causes the wolves to flee, instead. Although the idea of \"wolves in the walls\" is quite fanciful, the central idea behind this text: fear, and the act of facing that fear, is a solid one, one to which readers can grasp on to. Gaimen's combination of two and three-dimensional illustrations, mixed with a collage of real-world items, also creates an image of reality within this fantasy world. This definitely was a pleasant surprise! ...more We love this book! It is fast becoming a favorite in my house. Sooo much fun to read aloud. I can make my 5 year old jump every time and he loves it. The art is amazing but the writing really stands out as something extra special, especialy considering that this is a children's story. I rarely recommend buying a children's book outright considering that your library is readily available, children's books are quick reads, and kids attention spans are notoriously short but this book I can wholehea We love this book! It is fast becoming a favorite in my house. Sooo much fun to read aloud. I can make my 5 year old jump every time and he loves it. The art is amazing but the writing really stands out as something extra special, especialy considering that this is a children's story. I rarely recommend buying a children's book outright considering that your library is readily available, children's books are quick reads, and kids attention spans are notoriously short but this book I can wholeheartedly recommend buying. ...more Probably one of the only picture books I really, really like. Creepy as all heck, though. Come to think of it, that's probably why I like it. \u263d If the wolves come out of the walls, it's all over. \u263e The storyline of The Wolves in the Walls revolves around young Lucy and her family and their unwanted houseguests. It is set in and around Lucy\u2019s home, prominently featuring night-time as is due for a scarier story. Simply reading the text would probably create a homier scene in our imagination, however, the illustrations have a definite \u2018creep factor\u2019, almost elevating the setting to thriller or horror status. Lucy fears the scratching soun \u263d If the wolves come out of the walls, it's all over. \u263e The storyline of The Wolves in the Walls revolves around young Lucy and her family and their unwanted houseguests. It is set in and around Lucy\u2019s home, prominently featuring night-time as is due for a scarier story. Simply reading the text would probably create a homier scene in our imagination, however, the illustrations have a definite \u2018creep factor\u2019, almost elevating the setting to thriller or horror status. Lucy fears the scratching sounds coming from the walls, and is convinced wolves are waiting to pounce on them. Her family does not believe her though; they appear to shelf her concerns as a product of a child\u2019s imagination. They also seem to be too busy to devote great amounts of time to her. Her mother is busy making jam, the act a representation of the typical things that mothers do. Her father is engrossed in what he loves doing and will not let himself be interrupted. Lastly, her brother is either focusing on homework or is playing video games. I got the feeling that he is teasing her in the way siblings normally do. The setting\u2019s entirety evokes an image of a typical day at home, perhaps over the weekend when work or classes do not consume our lives. This idyllic scene, however, seems to be perched on a knife\u2019s sharp edge; we know something disturbing is about to happen. Lucy\u2019s predictions come to pass. The story is almost an opposite of The Boy Who Cried Wolf \u2013 nobody believes Lucy until the wolves actually emerge. Why did people believe a boy but not a girl? She is the brave hero, as the story concludes, (view spoiler) [re-conquering the house in order to save her beloved Pig Puppet (hide spoiler) ] . Defeating fear is the theme of this story; every child is afraid of things that go bump in the night and reading this book \u2013 or having it read to them \u2013 shows them fear can, indeed, be overcome. Due to the aforementioned creepiness of both the language used and the illustrations, I would recommend this book for slightly older children \u2013 perhaps ages 7 and on \u2013 as I can imagine it could frighten children that do not like scary stories. Despite having a female heroine, the story might be, in my speculation, more appealing to boys. Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean excelled at breathing life into a seed, allowing a child to leaf through a story that will have a special place in the forest of their imagination. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more When Lucy hears hustling, bustling, crinkling and crackling noises inside the walls, she attempts to warn her mother, father and brother. Emphatically telling the family there are wolves in the wall, they do not believe her and say \"Well, if the wolves come out in the walls, then it's all over.\" Never explaining why it will be all over, the refuse to believe her. Her brother continues to play his video games; her mother continues to make jam and her father continues to play his tuba. On the night When Lucy hears hustling, bustling, crinkling and crackling noises inside the walls, she attempts to warn her mother, father and brother. Emphatically telling the family there are wolves in the wall, they do not believe her and say \"Well, if the wolves come out in the walls, then it's all over.\" Never explaining why it will be all over, the refuse to believe her. Her brother continues to play his video games; her mother continues to make jam and her father continues to play his tuba. On the night that Lucy initially does not hear noises as she tries to sleep, she becomes most frightened and soon in the middle of the night the howling, thumping and yelling begins AND, the wolves do indeed come out of the walls. Fleeing in terror, and hiding at the bottom of the garden, the family knows the wolves are having a party, eating food, watching tv, playing with the video games and dancing evil dances. Fearful that something is going to happen to her beloved stuffed pig toy, brave Lucy re-enters the house and creeps along inside the walls to find her toy. Taking control of the situation, the family returns to the house and creeps along inside the walls. Making loud noises they scare the wolves who note that when\" the people come out of the walls, it's all over!\" Frantically flying out of the house and, according to Gaiman, they go to either the Artic, the desert or outer space! Everthing returns to normal until Lucy hears the noise in the walls of elephants! Highly created with lush illustrations, this is a joy to read. I think a very young child would be afraid of both the story and the images. I'd read this to an older child and not a youngster. ...more Originally posted HERE . This is the story of Lucy, who could hear the sounds being made by wolves coming from within the walls of their house. She tries to tell her mother, father, and brother about the wolfish sounds, but they were all incredulous and refused to believe her. Only her little pig-puppet believed her. And then one night, something happened in Lucy's house... Can you guess what? Wolves In The Walls is a children's story, yes, but I think it might be too dark or scary for the smalle Originally posted HERE . This is the story of Lucy, who could hear the sounds being made by wolves coming from within the walls of their house. She tries to tell her mother, father, and brother about the wolfish sounds, but they were all incredulous and refused to believe her. Only her little pig-puppet believed her. And then one night, something happened in Lucy's house... Can you guess what? Wolves In The Walls is a children's story, yes, but I think it might be too dark or scary for the smaller kids - I was initially worried that my 3-year-old might be frightened when we read it, but she didn't flinch at all even when she saw the hideously terrifying illustrations of the wolves. It's actually the drawings that will scare the younger readers, not the story itself. But it was a fun read despite the horror and the scare factor. I loved reading it aloud to my daughter, complete with hushed tones and throaty growls when required. And while the illustrations, courtesy of Dave McKean, were indeed creepy, I don't think any other manner of drawing would be able to capture the narration as perfectly as McKean's did. And the best part is that the ending leaves the readers free to draw their own conclusions about what happens next. ...more The genius of Neil Gaiman is an inspiration that keeps me going. If you want to write a story, write a short story first. Let it be short. Let it be brief. Let it be so succinct that someone can read it in 10 minutes. That's what The Wolves in the Wall is. It's a super-short extra-short short story. The story of Lucy who hears the wolves in the wall, and her utter certainty about them being wolves, not rats or mice or bats. There is no character development, as there is just no time for it. Ther The genius of Neil Gaiman is an inspiration that keeps me going. If you want to write a story, write a short story first. Let it be short. Let it be brief. Let it be so succinct that someone can read it in 10 minutes. That's what The Wolves in the Wall is. It's a super-short extra-short short story. The story of Lucy who hears the wolves in the wall, and her utter certainty about them being wolves, not rats or mice or bats. There is no character development, as there is just no time for it. There is no well-planned-out plot with twists and turns. There is no time to even think about what you are reading because you'll be finished in no time. And yet it's a complete story that stays with you. It's a blip from Gaiman's imagination come to life, then to paper, and then done. I wonder how long it took him to write this. Stories like this give me so much hope, and that's not to say that writing a short story is an easy feat but the hope is still there. In fact, as the saying goes, \"If I had more time, I'd have written you a shorter letter.\" comes to mind here. And that is what Gaiman can teach us too. His works span all lengths, but he's perfectly fine putting out a piece of work that you can finish in 10 minutes. There is nothing extra there. Not an extra sentence or word or even punctuation, and that's brilliant story telling. I loved The Wolves in the Wall, and I think you might too. ...more The Wolves in the Walls by Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean is a brilliant, if not slightly disturbing and incredibly scary, picture book. The illustrations are excellent and the cover (which looks slightly like the girl out of the horror film, \u2018The Ring\u2019) gives a good indication of the content. In short there are wolves in the walls of a house so the family living there have to take refuge when they come out. The family then hide in the walls and turn the tables by scaring the wolves away when they c The Wolves in the Walls by Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean is a brilliant, if not slightly disturbing and incredibly scary, picture book. The illustrations are excellent and the cover (which looks slightly like the girl out of the horror film, \u2018The Ring\u2019) gives a good indication of the content. In short there are wolves in the walls of a house so the family living there have to take refuge when they come out. The family then hide in the walls and turn the tables by scaring the wolves away when they come out. The scary illustrations, dangerous wolf characters and the language used such as \u2018If the wolves come out of the walls, it\u2019s all over\u2019 all add to the rather terrifying nature of the book. The feel of the story is like an old fairy tale and cleverly there are references to modern things like Lucy\u2019s brother\u2019s games console which all help to engage and entertain. The scary nature of the book however means it should probably be used with older children, perhaps 8-9 year olds, or they may lose sleep! The real benefit of this book in my view is that if it is on a shelf and a child sees it, he or she will not be able to resist picking it up and reading it to the comical end. ...more Strange and rather not what I was expecting. The art and pictures weren't to my liking, and the story was pretty weird. But I don't know what or why or how, but there was something I liked about it. Maybe because it has Neil Gaiman's imaginative and strange and a bit creepy flare through it. Do I recommend?: *shrugs* It's a Neil Gaiman picture book and illustrated by Dave McKean- it's a quick enough read. ~Z:) La trama in s\u00e8 \u00e8 come una tela cubista fatta di sfaccettature gi\u00e0 viste, ma Gaiman e McKean l'hanno assemblata in modo tale da sembrare combinazioni inedite ulteriormente filtrate al caleidoscopio. Un volume illustrato su cui anche gli adulti potrebbero voler riflettere. Tutto questo per dire: sono 51 pagine che vi consiglio di leggere, in particolare se ne troverete una copia in biblioteca, cos\u00ec avrete il tempo di leggerlo in un sol boccone e rimuginarci s\u00f9 per il resto della visita. First Audiobook of 2016! Of course, I had to pick Neil Gaiman! No one narrates a book like Neil. While very short, The Wolves in the Walls is terribly funny with a smattering of the darkness that is typical of a Gaiman work. Loved the little cliff hanger, if it can be called that. \"Bence yok, tatl\u0131 k\u0131z\u0131m,\" dedi babas\u0131 Lucy'e. \"\u00c7ok geni\u015f bir hayal g\u00fcc\u00fcn var.\" \"Duydu\u011fum sesler kurtlardan geliyor,\" dedi Lucy. \"Onlar\u0131 karn\u0131mda hissedebiliyorum.\" Yaaa! Gaiman, \u00e7ok tatl\u0131s\u0131n. I was lead to this story mostly through the eye-catching, vivid style of Dave McKean\u2019s illustration, after loving the graphic novel hybrid of Slog\u2019s Dad . But this is not a case where the illustration supersedes the text \u2013 in fact far from it. The Wolves in the Walls is a great example of showing how text and illustration combine to deliver a collaborative storytelling experience, not merely there to support the other, but to interlink and fill in the blanks. It is the main character of this story I was lead to this story mostly through the eye-catching, vivid style of Dave McKean\u2019s illustration, after loving the graphic novel hybrid of Slog\u2019s Dad . But this is not a case where the illustration supersedes the text \u2013 in fact far from it. The Wolves in the Walls is a great example of showing how text and illustration combine to deliver a collaborative storytelling experience, not merely there to support the other, but to interlink and fill in the blanks. It is the main character of this story, Lucy, whose attention is first captured by the sounds of the wolves that she believes to be hiding in the walls. Trying to raise the alarm and the attention of her family, she is repeatedly told that there firstly aren\u2019t any wolves in the walls, and secondly, rather ominously, that it\u2019s all over when the wolves come out of the walls. When the inevitable happens and the wolves do come out of the walls, Lucy and her family must flee to the garden and ponder what they can do and where they can go. Whilst the element of fear, thrills and superstition is heightened in this book, ultimately it\u2019s about conquering these emotions, and Lucy does just this. I suggest that this book would be better suited to KS1 rather than children in the EYFS, predominately due to the content. The dark and mysterious illustrations help to create an atmosphere of suspense, and thus the book could be used to demonstrate the importance of settings in creative writing, with the pictures depicted to the whole class through a visualiser. Overall, I really enjoyed The Wolves in the Walls \u2013 a charming tale that plays into the elements of intrigue and fear that are conjured up by the darker evenings, but balances this with a gentle humour as the reader empathises with Lucy\u2019s vain attempts to warn her family members about what else might be in the walls! ...more The Wolves in the Walls tells the tale of Lucy and her family, who are driven out of their home by wolves who come out of the walls. Lucy tries to warn her family that there are wolves in the walls but no one believes her. There is a element of foreboding throughout the book as we are constantly reminded that if the wolves come out of the walls 'it's all over'. Lucy is proved right in the end and it is Lucy who saves the family home and rids it of the wolves. The Wolves in the Walls challenges a The Wolves in the Walls tells the tale of Lucy and her family, who are driven out of their home by wolves who come out of the walls. Lucy tries to warn her family that there are wolves in the walls but no one believes her. There is a element of foreboding throughout the book as we are constantly reminded that if the wolves come out of the walls 'it's all over'. Lucy is proved right in the end and it is Lucy who saves the family home and rids it of the wolves. The Wolves in the Walls challenges a child's imagination and suggests that some reality lies behind it. This is explored through both the words and illustrations. In essence, The Wolves in the Walls is a hero story but not conventionally so. This is because Lucy is the hero and traditionally this is a male role. The words are not uniform on the page. They appear to jostle and bounce over the page. This helps to draw the eye across the page and engage both pictures and words. This coupled with the way in which the illustrations take up the whole page suggest a lack of boundaries, which is one of the themes explored in the story. The use of photographs as well as drawings suggest that there is an element of reality in the story and in what Lucy is saying, which of course we learn is true. I enjoyed reading this book, I like the themes and the story is quite exciting and full of surprises. This book is ideal for young readers as it is one for reading aloud. The way the story grips the reader leans well to reading to a class. I would say it was most appropriate for 6+ years. ...more (Audio Version) My 3rd grade students, particularly the boys, thrive on \u201cterrifying, creepy, and sinister.\u201d So when I read reviews that described Neil Gaiman\u2019s Wolves in the Walls as such, I was hooked. I listened to the audio without any picture support, and was surprised to find it, well, a little humorous. I felt a little guilty chuckling at a book that is marketed as dark and \u201cthe stuff of nightmares.\u201d The 17-minute narration alone was just not enough to convey this. I visualized a lighter t (Audio Version) My 3rd grade students, particularly the boys, thrive on \u201cterrifying, creepy, and sinister.\u201d So when I read reviews that described Neil Gaiman\u2019s Wolves in the Walls as such, I was hooked. I listened to the audio without any picture support, and was surprised to find it, well, a little humorous. I felt a little guilty chuckling at a book that is marketed as dark and \u201cthe stuff of nightmares.\u201d The 17-minute narration alone was just not enough to convey this. I visualized a lighter tone with the young girl worrying about her \u201cpig puppet,\u201d and images of the wolves that come out of the walls watching movies, eating popcorn, and wearing the family\u2019s finest clothes. Then I picked up the book. What a world of difference! This story, about a family who is forced to flee their home when they literally discover wolves in the walls, completely changed for me when the text was paired with the illustrations. The images are unlike any I\u2019ve seen in a children\u2019s book before. The setting is bleak and ominous, kept physically \u201cdark\u201d to depict a darker, more humorless feel. The characters were portrayed with an abstract quality, dark and eerie. And the wolves were not, as I had pictured, \u201ccartoonish.\u201d Their glowing eyes make them seem rabid, untamed, dangerous. This book is perfect for those kids who want to see a little less \u201ckid\u201d in kid\u2019s books. \u201cTerrifying, creepy, and sinister\u201d for sure. ...more To get to groovy creepy Gaiman world where The Wolves in the Walls , and most of his other books, seem to take place, it's similar to going to Never Never Land - take the second star to the right, but in this case straight on until midnight. Hovering over every Gaiman book I've read is that sense of the unearthly and macabre - the humor is dark, the palette is darker, the plot flavored with henbane and eye of newt. In the Real World, no one has heard about wolves living in the walls, and when our To get to groovy creepy Gaiman world where The Wolves in the Walls , and most of his other books, seem to take place, it's similar to going to Never Never Land - take the second star to the right, but in this case straight on until midnight. Hovering over every Gaiman book I've read is that sense of the unearthly and macabre - the humor is dark, the palette is darker, the plot flavored with henbane and eye of newt. In the Real World, no one has heard about wolves living in the walls, and when our little protagonist tells her Dad and Mum and Brother about them, they - like all grown ups (or nearly grown ups) discount her fears and try to comfort her. But they also, every one of them, leave the door wide open with this disclaimer: \"For you know what they say... if the wolves come out of the walls, then it's all over... everybody knows that.\" Everybody in the Real World doesn't know that, but in Gaiman's world, second start to the right, weird things happen regularly to normal, everyday people. Suffice it to say, wolves do indeed inhabit the walls, and what happens when they come out is how storytelling began among cavemen a thousand thousand years ago. Dave McKean's illustrations, while not my favorite in any way, do make a perfect pairing to this creepy kooky story. It's Good Night Moon for Wednesday Addams. ...more Dark, scary, and suspenseful. Both the story and the illustrations artfully, gleefully, walk you on the fence between creepy fantasy and dark possible reality. There are darling jokes, details and really scary, heinous looking wolves. These are not cuddly wolves. The illustrations profoundly support this dream world with a variety of strategies. The darker, sepia pallet and dark wash, combined with the ink etchings, and photos (those eyes through the walls do a lot of damage!). The telling of det Dark, scary, and suspenseful. Both the story and the illustrations artfully, gleefully, walk you on the fence between creepy fantasy and dark possible reality. There are darling jokes, details and really scary, heinous looking wolves. These are not cuddly wolves. The illustrations profoundly support this dream world with a variety of strategies. The darker, sepia pallet and dark wash, combined with the ink etchings, and photos (those eyes through the walls do a lot of damage!). The telling of details, both common everyday, and completely bizarre; the constant dialog bring this story into the realm of 'scary campfire stories'. This is a great scary book to read to a group: there are lots of voices and a variety of speeds (pace) provided by the story telling as well as the small to large frames, the lack of symmetry, and the rolling text. You need to know your kids. Some kids might be scared by this. I would say start at 3rd grade. But the point is to know your children. This could easily be used to support older students in developing their skills with story telling, illustration and working with multi-media. ...more Gaiman, Neil Wolves in the Wall pgs.56 HarperTrophy Language~G; Sexual Content~G; Violence~PG Author Neil Gaiman has written a superb picture book for older readers, terrifying but terrific! Lucy is a young girl who begins to hear what she absolutely without a doubt knows are wolves in the walls of her house. Her mother doesn\u2019t believe her. She tries to warn her father, but he brushes her off. Her younger brother thinks she has finally gone over the edge. Only her pig puppet believes her, until t Gaiman, Neil Wolves in the Wall pgs.56 HarperTrophy Language~G; Sexual Content~G; Violence~PG Author Neil Gaiman has written a superb picture book for older readers, terrifying but terrific! Lucy is a young girl who begins to hear what she absolutely without a doubt knows are wolves in the walls of her house. Her mother doesn\u2019t believe her. She tries to warn her father, but he brushes her off. Her younger brother thinks she has finally gone over the edge. Only her pig puppet believes her, until the wolves breach the walls and chase Lucy and her family out of their house! Tragically pig puppet is left inside and Lucy realizes that she must find the courage to go and rescue her friend from the terrifying wolves. This title will be too scary for most young children; however this would be an excellent read-a-loud for older elementary students and even students in secondary schools. I love this title and would highly recommend it! ELM/MS/HS \u2013ADVISABLE\t Allison Madsen~Teen Librarian-SJO Public Library ...more After reading Gaiman's current best seller The Ocean at the End of the Lane and noticed that he had written many children's books, I picked up a copy of The Wolves in the Walls. I found that the fantasy in The Wolves in the Walls followed along with the fantasy in The Ocean at the End of the Lane. The reader follows along with the story and can't stop (in both books). I loved the creativity and rhythm of the words. The illustrations are amazing and add so much to the story. I think I've found an After reading Gaiman's current best seller The Ocean at the End of the Lane and noticed that he had written many children's books, I picked up a copy of The Wolves in the Walls. I found that the fantasy in The Wolves in the Walls followed along with the fantasy in The Ocean at the End of the Lane. The reader follows along with the story and can't stop (in both books). I loved the creativity and rhythm of the words. The illustrations are amazing and add so much to the story. I think I've found another favorite author and will have to read his other books. I know I have The Graveyard Book (Newbery Award) on my shelf. If you're looking for something a little different be sure to take a look at Gaiman. ...more<---C>Neil Gaiman</---C>", "Title": "The Wolves in the Walls"},
