{"Comments": "<+++>Spilled Milk</+++> by K. L. Randis is a touching story based on true events. <---C>Brooke Nolan</---C>, from the time she is a little girl until her teenage years is sexually abused by her father. She isn't the only target in the family, as her siblings feel his wrath in the form of physical abuse. Her mother is disabled from a mishap at work, and there are 4 children in the household which traps her financially. The perfect setting for the lightning storm that is Brooke's life. It isn't until sitting down to dinn <+++>Spilled Milk</+++> by K. L. Randis is a touching story based on true events. Brooke Nolan, from the time she is a little girl until her teenage years is sexually abused by her father. She isn't the only target in the family, as her siblings feel his wrath in the form of physical abuse. Her mother is disabled from a mishap at work, and there are 4 children in the household which traps her financially. The perfect setting for the lightning storm that is Brooke's life. It isn't until sitting down to dinner with her boyfriend's family, and his little brother accidentally spills his milk,<---M> that she realizes her family isn't normal</---M>, nobody screams at the child or raises their hands in anger. Brooke has a difficult time wrapping her mind around the entire incident. The milk mishap is what seems to propel her into seeking help. Brooke builds strong relationships with others, mostly adults who stand by her, giving their full support as she faces the challenge of survival, and court, against her father. The fear she feels echoes through the pages of this compelling story. <---A>K.L. Randis</---A> illustrations of growing up in a violent home are on the money. Her novel speaks volumes to anyone, especially those who have suffered the devastating effects of abuse. Her words are precise, and descriptive placing the reader front and center in an explosive household. Brooke is an intelligent young woman who finds peace, justice, and most importantly, strength. In my opinion Spilled Milk is about awareness, and reaching out, helping those who can't help themselves. There are far too many stories that mimic Brooke's, characters, and situations may be different, but the fear, and devastation aren\u2019t. Someone in a toxic relationship has to want to be helped, and be willing to come forward. If they know they aren't alone, that support is available, then maybe more will reach out. This is a novel to share with as many people as possible.<---F> Spilled Milk is an excellent read</---F>. ...more This was a very compelling story and I could hardly put it down, but it made me so angry. I know this kind of abuse goes on and that children are victimized by their parents, but this child was also victimized by Social Services and her school. How could such agencies promise confidentiality and then do things which put her into further jeopardy? How could a school be so insensitive? But this is a story of a young girl with enormous courage. At times I was hearing the music from \"Rocky\" while I w This was a very compelling story and I could hardly put it down, but it made me so angry. I know this kind of abuse goes on and that children are victimized by their parents, but this child was also victimized by Social Services and her school. How could such agencies promise confidentiality and then do things which put her into further jeopardy? How could a school be so insensitive? But this is a story of a young girl with enormous courage. At times I was hearing the music from \"Rocky\" while I was reading. Brooke felt responsible for her siblings and her mother so she tolerated a situation that no child should have to face with the tacit understanding that her father would not sexually abuse her sister. She couldn't protect her family from her father's incredible rage and selfishness, but she could keep it from being any worse. Brooke's mother, while not abusive, also contributed to her problems. As in so many cases, she was passive and absorbed with her own survival and so she chose to ignore some vital signals. Despite this, Brooke had people in her life who cared about her and recognized that something wasn't right. In the end, they did what they could, and did it well. ...more My 15 yo read this and told me I should read it. I was hesitant because of the subject matter but also wanted to be able to discuss with her. It was really hard to read in the beginning but I am glad I pressed on and finished it. A very insightful view of what she went through and how the system \"works\"...or doesn't work. Unbelievable resiliency displayed throughout this book. Thanks for the courage of the author to write this book. Honestly, it is a moving and horrifying tale of bravery and sadness. But if the editing had been more thorough I'd have been able to focus solely on Brooke's voice. Instead, the misused plurals/'s and the disregard for punctuation left me a bit distracted. This just goes to show just how important proofreading your book is. Seriously...\"would OF?\" \"Oxycontin's?\" Not to mention the ungodly number of run-on sentences. I bring this up because I thought this was a fantastic book, and it's a shame I couldn't give it a full 5-star review. Editing is writing 101. I'm going to dnf this book. My heart just can't take it. I found this book very compelling. It shows how someone who lives in a bad environment feels it is normal. When they see how others act in a family, they see their lives are not normal. It reminds people to never judge others. You never know the hardships they go through. Unfortunately many wear a mask so others don't know the real person inside because they mask the pain they feel. Brooke's mask was being a good student. It hid what was really going on in her life. We all hide from one thing or I found this book very compelling. It shows how someone who lives in a bad environment feels it is normal. When they see how others act in a family, they see their lives are not normal. It reminds people to never judge others. You never know the hardships they go through. Unfortunately many wear a mask so others don't know the real person inside because they mask the pain they feel. Brooke's mask was being a good student. It hid what was really going on in her life. We all hide from one thing or another. It is wonderful to have a person that helps to pick us up off the floor when we need it most. Gina was the one to do that for Brooke. This book shows what a little caring can do for a person. It's always hard to trust others when living in a bad situation. Trust for some is hard because of what they have gone through. Such as social services saying it is confidential. Then sending a report to those who are accused. This book shows that no matter what we go through in life, we can change it to make it better. It shows caring for someone can change their life for the better. ...more I couldn't put this book down from how good it was. What a heartbreaking, incredible story! I love how the spilled milk on the dinner table inspired Brooke to speak out. This book made me love books that are based on a true story. 1). Author\u2019s Background Spilled Milk was written by K.L. Randis. She wrote this book to portray her life as a sexually abused child. Although, the main character in the book is named Brooke, the things that happened to her were exactly the things that happened to K.L. Randis when she was a girl. 2). Literary Time Period The book is based off of little excerpts from her diary, therefore, the book was written in Long Island, New York and Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania. 3). Setting The setting throughout t 1). Author\u2019s Background Spilled Milk was written by K.L. Randis. She wrote this book to portray her life as a sexually abused child. Although, the main character in the book is named Brooke, the things that happened to her were exactly the things that happened to K.L. Randis when she was a girl. 2). Literary Time Period The book is based off of little excerpts from her diary, therefore, the book was written in Long Island, New York and Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania. 3). Setting The setting throughout the book is mostly Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania and Long Island, New York. These are the places where R.L. Randis was raped and molested by her father. 4). Characters Brooklyn (<---B>R.L. Randis</---B>)- A strong girl that stood up for herself after years of torment from her father. David Nolan- The father of Brooklyn (R.L. Randis) that raped and molested her for years. Molly Nolan- The mother of Brooklyn (R.L. Randis) that was a pill popper and lousy mom. Gina- The women that was there for Brooke whenever she needed her. 5). Theme A huge theme in this book is abuse, because Brooke\u2019s father abused her until she felt like she was worthless. The abuse inflicted onto Brooke was terrible and the book expresses it perfectly. 6). Plot Summary Brooke Nolan is a battered child who makes an anonymous phone call about the escalating brutality in her home. When social services jeopardize her safety condemning her to keep her father\u2019s secret, it\u2019s a glass of spilled milk at the dinner table that forces her to speak about the cruelty she\u2019s been hiding. In her pursuit for safety and justice Brooke battles a broken system that pushes to keep her father in the home. When jury members and a love interest congregate to inspire her to fight, she risks losing the support of family and comes to the realization that some people simply do not want to be saved. Fortunately, she fought through and became the savior of her family. Her coming forward sentenced her dad to up to 16 years in prison. 7). Literary Devices Foreshadowing is one of the literary devices that is used when R.L. Randis said in the first chapter that her brother nearly drowning is the first of the many secrets she kept for her dad. The next literary device used in Spilled Milk, is symbolism. In the book when Brooke realized that when her boyfriend\u2019s brother spilt a glass of milk on the table and their father did not hit or shout at him, Brooke realized that her family was not normal. 8). Memorable Quotes \u201cBut you have a damn good voice, and we are going to make it sing.\u201d Heather, a girl that kept Brooke updated on the case and any other court information, said this when Brooke was beginning to feel like there was no hope winning the case against her father. Fortunately, Heather said just a few words that reassured Brooke that she needed to do this for herself and for other victims. \u201cI beamed at Gina and stuck my hand out the window as we passed, passionately giving the jail the middle finger.\u201d This is the narrator speaking after David was convicted for his crimes. It is explaining the excitement that Brooklyn felt when she was set free from her abusive father. ...more Proofreading is important. The story is compelling, but the number of run-on sentences and terrible use of punctuation was very distracting. I found myself skimming at the end just to be done with it. Best book EVER!!! This book was absolutely amazing. I feel so much stronger just from reading this book and seeing how Brooke survived. Couldn't put it down!! However, it deals with a very sensitive issue that may make this a book that is hard to read for some. Quite heartbreaking... I'm going to have to come back with the review for this one! I literally cried when I read the last page. This book was so detailed and raw. I admire Brooke and how brave she was. This book is so touching and scary at the same time. What a powerful message. I can't believe I actually finished it because it was so heartbreaking to read each page. Spilled Milk Based on a True Story by K L Randis is such an amazing book. I would 100% recommend this book to everyone and everyone, especially if you are a person who is interested in books that have abuse in them. This book is based on a true story so it makes the book ten times better and more interesting to read. Knowing that what is said throughout the book actually happened to someone also makes it a lot easier to read. When I first found the book online, I immediately wanted to read it be Spilled Milk Based on a True Story by K L Randis is such an amazing book. I would 100% recommend this book to everyone and everyone, especially if you are a person who is interested in books that have abuse in them. This book is based on a true story so it makes the book ten times better and more interesting to read. Knowing that what is said throughout the book actually happened to someone also makes it a lot easier to read. When I first found the book online, I immediately wanted to read it because it sounded so interesting to me. I love books that are based on true stories anyway, and also books that are based around someone getting abused, or abducted and those kind of things. These types are typically fast-paced, and this definitely is. By the time I reached page 40 in my book, I was completely hooked and did not want to put it down. While reading the book, you are reading it from Brooke, the main character\u2019s, point of view. She talks us through from when it first started all the way through to the very end of it all. With the way it is written, it is a lot easier to relate to the book, even if something like this has never happened to you before. The author does a great job in keeping your attention all through the book, and never makes it too boring. I would definitely recommend this book to everyone because I enjoyed it so much, but also many people who are going into a job that deals with this type of work because it gives you more of a victim ooint of view. The book shows that not every case is the same, and they do not always turn out to be like the cases in the books. ...more Spilled Milk, a book that instantly grabbed me in and I did not want to put it down. Several genres mixed into one amazing tale of Brooke Nolan and her life that has some major struggles. I originally chose this book because of the summary and reviews given to it on amazon. I was browsing through books one day and came across this one and I am so fortunate I chose to read this novel. This books just flowed from one event to the next engaging the reader more and more every time. The ending was qu Spilled Milk, a book that instantly grabbed me in and I did not want to put it down. Several genres mixed into one amazing tale of Brooke Nolan and her life that has some major struggles. I originally chose this book because of the summary and reviews given to it on amazon. I was browsing through books one day and came across this one and I am so fortunate I chose to read this novel. This books just flowed from one event to the next engaging the reader more and more every time. The ending was quite predictable, but the suspense leading to it allowed the reader to stay engaged. Being brought into the everyday life of Brooke Nolan, dealing with her parents, school work, boys, work, and basically raising her siblings for her parents, she lives a busy life but manages to make it all work out. K.L Randis shows us Brooke's struggles, but also her victories. Although there are some slightly inappropriate parts, the author does a great job of not making those parts the main focus. ...more This may be one of the better written books on this subject, and I have read many on the subject. In terms of subject matter, it is heartbreaking the author had to go through this at all. It's inspiring that she manages to rise above her abusive childhood, it's just sad that she had to go through this at all. Bless her for her courage to put this out there and for her courage to finally put an end to the cycle of abuse in her family. This author has done what many others have in terms of documen This may be one of the better written books on this subject, and I have read many on the subject. In terms of subject matter, it is heartbreaking the author had to go through this at all. It's inspiring that she manages to rise above her abusive childhood, it's just sad that she had to go through this at all. Bless her for her courage to put this out there and for her courage to finally put an end to the cycle of abuse in her family. This author has done what many others have in terms of documenting her abusive childhood and her rise above. What sets this apart from other similar works on this subject is that this was pretty well written, as the author not only had a riveting story to tell, but she has a talent for storytelling. ...more So much praise for this book I cried through most of this story. When I was finished reading, I smiled. It's a story of heartache and absolute terror but it's also a story of survival and strength. As a woman who suffered through mental and physical abuse as a child, and extreme emotional abuse later in my first marriage, this story of hope was exactly what I needed. I've been contemplating my return to college to get my degree in counseling for a few years now, and I'm going to do it. Thank you So much praise for this book I cried through most of this story. When I was finished reading, I smiled. It's a story of heartache and absolute terror but it's also a story of survival and strength. As a woman who suffered through mental and physical abuse as a child, and extreme emotional abuse later in my first marriage, this story of hope was exactly what I needed. I've been contemplating my return to college to get my degree in counseling for a few years now, and I'm going to do it. Thank you for being so brave as to share your story with the world. ...more At first, I didn't think I could even finish this book, between the subject matter and the fact that it's my hometown and alma mater that the story takes place in. However... Having started it right after work Monday night, I read it straight thru and finished just before midnight. It was simply written, but a wonderful example of triumph in the face of something worse than adversity. There is only one part that was unsatisfying, but I can't say what without having a huge spoiler. But most will At first, I didn't think I could even finish this book, between the subject matter and the fact that it's my hometown and alma mater that the story takes place in. However... Having started it right after work Monday night, I read it straight thru and finished just before midnight. It was simply written, but a wonderful example of triumph in the face of something worse than adversity. There is only one part that was unsatisfying, but I can't say what without having a huge spoiler. But most will get it. ...more This incredible story of survival - and then thrival - motivates readers to shout out when we see child abuse. Remember that what we see outside the home is just a smattering of what goes on behind closed doors. Eleanor Cowan, author of : A History of a Pedophile's Wife: Memoir of a Canadian Teacher and Writer I couldn't put this book down for one second. It was amazing to read how abuse can effect people, how people cope with them differently. This book reminded me of my mothers childhood. I felt like I was almost reading her story.. K.L. Randis did an amazing job painting the story of her life. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in child abuse. It was great from beginning to end. This book touched me very deeply. It is an exceptional novel based on a true story about a Father's incest on his young daughter. She gets the strength to report him when she sees how a glass of spilled milk is gently handled in a normal family compared to the violence it would have evoked in her family.It explains the difficulty of accusing him and bring him to trial. I could not put this book down. The story centers around a young girl who is abused by her father. She realizes her family is \"not normal\" and decides to do something about it. Through her bravery and persistence she creates a better life for herself, succeeds in the court case against her father and helps her mother and siblings. Once again a really hard subject that does not allow me to say \"I really loved this book\". It is an amazing story of survival. So much to think about in regards to child abuse and how it is handled by the system. Statistics tell us that child abuse by people close to children is so common and yet such a hard thing to pinpoint. This book really pictures it. I read this book in one sitting and.....wow. It\u2019s unbelievable what this girl and her siblings went through. I cried with, felt anger with, and celebrated with Brooke as she went through this journey. I cannot give this a full 5 star rating due to minor spelling mistakes, but I highly recommend this book. Spilled Milk is going to weigh heavy on my heart for years to come. A good story of resilience and overcoming the challenges of an abusive childhood. If you enjoyed the Glass Castle or A Child Called It, you will also enjoy this book. People who can live through situations such as this and rise above it always amaze me. Heart wrenching and heart warming gut wrenching at times. found myself getting mad or sad right along with the character. recommend to read this story of a girl who turned her life around after going through so much This book was beautifully written and had depth unlike \"Why Me?\" Which did not. As you read, you can feel the fear, anger, frustration, disappointment of the author. The fact that she was able to come out the other side is amazing. A wonder yet heartbreaking, anger inducing story. A Strong survivors story A Strong survivors story Wow! -this is a terrific survivors story and its hard to believe that the evil in the world could be living in in your house, right down the hall from you. Totally Mesmerizing I made the mistake of beginning this book before bed one night and before I knew it it was after 4 a.m. Very engrossing story that shows how resilient people can be. A triumph!", "Title": "Spilled Milk"},
