{"Comments": "This book was not only fascinating in its depiction of the German Democractic Republic two years before it fell, but also in the character of Bruno Krug, the writer at the centre of the story. Although Bruno's character is so flawed in many ways I never lost sympathy with him, I think because his flaws were so very human and primarily motivated by love. He does not come across as an evil man but simply a weak one and even though the prologue has already set the scene for a less than happy ending This book was not only fascinating in its depiction of the German Democractic Republic two years before it fell, but also in the character of Bruno Krug, the writer at the centre of the story. Although Bruno's character is so flawed in many ways I never lost sympathy with him, I think because his flaws were so very human and primarily motivated by love. He does not come across as an evil man but simply a weak one and even though the prologue has already set the scene for a less than happy ending, the hope is there that he will find one. Sington's writing is a joy to read, there were so many lines and paragraphs I reread and tried to remember for their wisdom and their beauty and in contrast to the dreary scenery he describes so well, there was a lot of comedy in the book. Bruno's quest for toothpaste in a socialist state, for example had me smiling and this happened often in the first half of the book. The theme of betrayal, however,<---M> runs throughout the book: by the state</---M>, by informers and by lovers and so ultimately this is a somber book yet I found it a poignant, often exciting and engaging read. 4.<---F>5 stars </---F>...more A tale of literary thief, betrayal and loss mainly set in East Germany before the fall of the Berlin Wall. I found this book very powerful / moving / complex / gripping. The central character was deeply flawed but utterly believable in his calculated, but paranoid, view of the world. The storyline was not only full of twists and turns, but also contained all the humdrum elements that make up life. I particularly enjoyed the central character\u2019s (<---B>who was a writer</---B>) view of the creative process and w A tale of literary thief, betrayal and loss mainly set in East Germany before the fall of the Berlin Wall. I found this book very powerful / moving / complex / gripping. The central character was deeply flawed but utterly believable in his calculated, but paranoid, view of the world. The storyline was not only full of twists and turns, but also contained all the humdrum elements that make up life. I particularly enjoyed the central character\u2019s (who was a writer) view of the creative process and waning of his artistic powers. ...more Oh I loved this book so much!! A beautiful gentle but powerful read, I was swept along in its current and was mesmerised by the emerging story as it was played out in its paranoia and self-doubt of an older man struggling with a young love which reflects his receding fame and success in East Germany. Highly recommended. <+++>The Valley of Unknowing</+++> is the sort of novel that once you\u2019ve finished reading it you regret having to put it away in the bookshelf. <---A>Philip Sington</---A> has successfully combined a poignant love story with a seductive thriller. At first, the story moves slowly, but gradually the tension rises and the plot becomes complex and the pace relentless. If one reads carefully, the clues to this thriller are salted throughout the book. Sington doesn\u2019t miss a step. The story is a haunting one of a flawed man w <+++>The Valley of Unknowing</+++> is the sort of novel that once you\u2019ve finished reading it you regret having to put it away in the bookshelf. Philip Sington has successfully combined a poignant love story with a seductive thriller. At first, the story moves slowly, but gradually the tension rises and the plot becomes complex and the pace relentless. If one reads carefully, the clues to this thriller are salted throughout the book. Sington doesn\u2019t miss a step. The story is a haunting one of a flawed man who missteps in a changing world and loses a dream, and the novel continues to surprise up until the last page. ...more Delightful mix of comedy, tragedy and suspense. Reminded me a bit of Milan Kundera (for the setting), Nabokov (for the humour) and Philip Roth (for the sexual/confessional candour). All I can say is, I had a great time and didn't want it to end. An extraordinary book, part political thriller, part love story, it narrates the life of a popular East German author during the last years of the GDR. It is both a fascinating story and philosophical tale about life under dictature and creativity, the role of the artist in such a society, the compromises made in order to survive. A wonderful read. Well I didn't expect to cry at the very last page but I did. There's humor and mystery and writerly advice and abandonment and informers -or not- and plumbing. I loved it. To rehearse imaginary conversations on paper is called literature. To do so out loud is called madness. \"Even if she is a spy, what's she going to learn from me? The secrets of punctuation?\" Fictions unfold more naturally when accompanied by exercise. Blood flow invigorates the imagination, as well as the muscles. Characters do no Well I didn't expect to cry at the very last page but I did. There's humor and mystery and writerly advice and abandonment and informers -or not- and plumbing. I loved it. To rehearse imaginary conversations on paper is called literature. To do so out loud is called madness. \"Even if she is a spy, what's she going to learn from me? The secrets of punctuation?\" Fictions unfold more naturally when accompanied by exercise. Blood flow invigorates the imagination, as well as the muscles. Characters do not come alive by conforming to type. Terror and shrugging were unlikely bedfellows. Nobody else in my experience was capable of such unselfish devotion to the written word. \"It's been an exercise in literary preservation, necessarily disguised.\" Not for the first time I had the sensation of living down to expectations. ... the descent into creative timidity In that sense it was no different from many thousands of transactions taking place every day in the Workers' and Peasants' State, where the more weighty and significant a need, the more it touched upon the innermost desires and the deepest fears, the more likely it was to remain unspecified. ...more Full disclosure: I received this book as a giveaway. There was no promise of compensation for this review. This book is amazing. I read it in 2 days! The story takes place in Eastern Germany and it has intrigue mixed with a little love story. The character development is superb. I found myself rooting for Bruno Klug...flaws and all. The plot twists and turns with a few surprises, which keeps those pages turning. I recommend this book highly! Really enjoyed this book. It's a gentle, subtle read - unsensational but compelling. I kept turning then pages to see how it was all going to turn out. The author uses language beautifully and the story has been informed by his wife's memories of actually living in the GDR before the Berlin Wall came down. Definitely worth reading. Convincing portrait of the grim and stultifying atmosphere of Communist East Berlin. Some gorgeous writing and a compelling story. \u2018Deceit was dangerous, but the truth was suicidal.\u2019 Bruno Krug is a writer in East Germany. He is principally known for his novel entitled The Orphans of Neustadt, as well as for his Factory Gate Fables, which portray the country\u2019s working masses. The Valley of Unknowing begins with a discovery by a young journalist in Ireland. Then we are taken into a manuscript produced by Krug, which is now in the hands of this journalist. In this work, Krug recalls the momentous events that shaped his final y \u2018Deceit was dangerous, but the truth was suicidal.\u2019 Bruno Krug is a writer in East Germany. He is principally known for his novel entitled The Orphans of Neustadt, as well as for his Factory Gate Fables, which portray the country\u2019s working masses. The Valley of Unknowing begins with a discovery by a young journalist in Ireland. Then we are taken into a manuscript produced by Krug, which is now in the hands of this journalist. In this work, Krug recalls the momentous events that shaped his final years in his homeland. He is given an anonymous manuscript to read by his editor Michael Schilling. As he reads it, he discovers that it is brilliant, but that it seems to almost be a sequel to his own very famous work. On discovering that the author is in fact Wolfgang Richter, a younger fellow author, he feels a multitude of emotions. Bruno meets a young musician, Theresa Eden, and an initial longing grows to become something more serious. The relationship will shape the rest of his life. I love fiction based in Germany, and in particular I find it fascinating to read stories that are based in the former German Democratic Republic. For me, this novel felt authentic and it did not disappoint. The plot is intriguing. The world the author creates is believable. He convincingly brings to life the atmosphere of the state: the secrecy, the fear of being watched and spied upon, needing to take care in your actions. Also the determined people who would keep struggling to try and achieve things, despite shortages of funds or goods \u2013 witness Frau Wiegmann and her persistence in trying to get the swimming pool reopened; she \u2018battled on like a true socialist heroine: exhorting her followers with visions of the promised land, banishing despair and crushing dissent with her indefatigable energy.\u2019 Similarly, Bruno's persistant yet fruitless pursuit of some toothpaste. And transactions would take place that were never quite openly declared or expressed, just understood enough between those involved. I enjoyed the comments on the craft of writing fiction that the author was able to express through Bruno\u2019s voice, and further the thoughts on the nature of artistry and creativity under \u2018Actually Existing Socialism\u2019 as opposed to the Western world of which the view is that \u2018cash was king and the customer was always right.\u2019 Bruno observes \u2018how could an artist remain true to his own vision \u2013 in effect honest \u2013 if he allowed his idea of beauty to be dictated by others? This indifference to Western opinion played well with my ideological overseers, who took it as indicative of loyalty. The truth is that I was afraid of what I might hear.\u2019 One of my favourite passages from the novel involves Bruno\u2019s thoughts which are provoked by Gruna Willy, a man reputed to have once been a border guard, now somewhat of a vagrant wondering the streets. Bruno ponders, \u2018To rehearse imaginary conversations on paper is called literature. To do so out loud is called madness.\u2019 Bruno is an interesting, flawed character, this writer and sometime plumber. I could imagine Bruno walking the streets of his town in the GDR, as he often did when his mind was troubled. I accompanied him as he went to the concerts in which Theresa played her viola. The evolving emotions that Bruno feels towards Theresa, and the way in which he gradually comes to a deeper understanding of Richter, is fascinating to read. As Bruno is writing his account in the first person, I really felt his conflicting feelings and his struggles over the best course of action, his fears and anxieties. What would happen, I wondered? The author successfully builds suspense in the storyline as the novel slowly progresses; in one sense I didn't find this a fast-paced read, yet I was always intrigued, always interested in what would happen next, and what fate was in store for Bruno and Theresa. I was enthralled to discover how the decisions Bruno makes would ultimately affect his life. This is a compelling story of love, risk, writing, fear and betrayal, courage and deception. Philip Sington has drawn on the insights and memories of his wife and her family, who resided in the former GDR, to create a credible, distinctive novel. This author is new to me, but I will look to read his previous novel The Einstein Girl now. 4.5 stars ...more The quality of the descriptions about life in East Germany are really good. There is a superb section at the start of chapter 10 where the author describes the colours he associates with the east: 'I have only to close my eyes and there they are, the distinctive hues of Actually Existing Socialism: grey, brown, grey-brown, caramel brown, rust brown, brown ochre, burnt sienna, coffee beige. These were the colours of the apartment blocks and factories, offices and shops, of construction and decay The quality of the descriptions about life in East Germany are really good. There is a superb section at the start of chapter 10 where the author describes the colours he associates with the east: 'I have only to close my eyes and there they are, the distinctive hues of Actually Existing Socialism: grey, brown, grey-brown, caramel brown, rust brown, brown ochre, burnt sienna, coffee beige. These were the colours of the apartment blocks and factories, offices and shops, of construction and decay and all points in between' I liked the interplay between Bruno Krug, the central character through whose eyes most of the story is written, and Theresa provide the core theme. I also found the many other people who we meet through the book to be well formed characters. The sense of time and place really made this part of recent history come to life for me. I rate this book highly, it is well worth reading. ...more Read a rave review of this book in 'The Times' and wasn't disappointed. 'The Valley of Unknowing' is a pretty flawless book. A literary novel, I suppose, but not as we know it: pacey, humorous, and free from self-conscious showing off. It's a personal story, told almost exclusively from one man's point-of-view. This limited perspective is actually vital to the action, which is shaped more by what the characters do not know about each other than by what they do (hence the title). This amounts to Read a rave review of this book in 'The Times' and wasn't disappointed. 'The Valley of Unknowing' is a pretty flawless book. A literary novel, I suppose, but not as we know it: pacey, humorous, and free from self-conscious showing off. It's a personal story, told almost exclusively from one man's point-of-view. This limited perspective is actually vital to the action, which is shaped more by what the characters do not know about each other than by what they do (hence the title). This amounts to a critique/examination of what a watchful modern dictatorship can do to the psyche of its people; but also to an examination of what emotional insecurity can do to any of us, wherever we live. In spite of such themes, and the gritty setting, the book manages to be funny much of the time. ...more I enjoyed this book very much and would recommend it. First, I thought it was beautifully written. I was intrigued by the characters and the plot, which was developed slowly and carefully, held my interest throughout. All the while, I had no idea where it was going and I loved this aspect of it. The ending, which so often makes a book fall flat, did not disappoint me. I learned a lot about this particular time in history and found myself reflecting upon it days after I had completed it. Very dif I enjoyed this book very much and would recommend it. First, I thought it was beautifully written. I was intrigued by the characters and the plot, which was developed slowly and carefully, held my interest throughout. All the while, I had no idea where it was going and I loved this aspect of it. The ending, which so often makes a book fall flat, did not disappoint me. I learned a lot about this particular time in history and found myself reflecting upon it days after I had completed it. Very different book. ...more Another brilliant novel by Philip Sington. The very well-crafted story had so many interesting and unexpected twists and turns. It was a brilliant piece of story-craft and a plausible, yet not-easily-predictable, resolution. A literary mystery set at the time of the collapse of East Germany. The differing experiences and values of the East and West perspectives color the perceptions and flaws of the main players. A very engaging read. I only wish these books were easier to find here in the US and Another brilliant novel by Philip Sington. The very well-crafted story had so many interesting and unexpected twists and turns. It was a brilliant piece of story-craft and a plausible, yet not-easily-predictable, resolution. A literary mystery set at the time of the collapse of East Germany. The differing experiences and values of the East and West perspectives color the perceptions and flaws of the main players. A very engaging read. I only wish these books were easier to find here in the US and not quite so expensive. ...more What a pleasant surprise! Had no idea what to expect as I won this as a Goodreads pre-release book. It's a story of Bruno Krug, a writer living in East Germany, who falls in love with a young cellist from the West. Interesting just how far someone will go for the one they love. A very interesting well written tale of love suspicion and a surptising look into life in East Germany before the wall came down. It is the best book I've read in quite a while. So far, very good read. Really enjoying this book. Good story and well written. Touching and sad. Horrible and, at times, laced with humour. A devastating description of life under Actually Existing Socialism in the GDR and the impact of this brand of socialism distorting human relations, sapping creativity and giving birth to all-embracing paranoia and fear. A love story, a mystery and a historical x-ray. Highly recommended. Amazing book ..led to great discussions at bookclub Bruno Krug is an East German renowned (but unproductive now) writer who falls in love with Theresa, a music student from West Germany. A young writer who Krug does not like appears to fancy her too, before he disappears. When Krug's agent has him evaluate a manuscript, well, things become tricky. In the end Krug sends the manuscript West with Theresa to have it published under a pseudonym. Years pass, East Germany falls, Stasi files surface, Theresa seeks Krug...who is now teaching creative writ Bruno Krug is an East German renowned (but unproductive now) writer who falls in love with Theresa, a music student from West Germany. A young writer who Krug does not like appears to fancy her too, before he disappears. When Krug's agent has him evaluate a manuscript, well, things become tricky. In the end Krug sends the manuscript West with Theresa to have it published under a pseudonym. Years pass, East Germany falls, Stasi files surface, Theresa seeks Krug...who is now teaching creative writing in Ireland. That's the skinny. The story is for the most part a first person account from Krug's perspective. The grim sense of life in East Germany emerges clearly as the cultural context. Sington, most impressively, gets inside Krug's head and explores his passions and insecurities with a deft hand. A powerful piece of writing with layers of tension worthy of exploration by other writers. ...more This is not a wildly exciting page turner, but is gripping nevertheless. The story is set in East Germany, mostly before the fall of the Berlin Wall. Bruno Krug wrote one very well known book, and is now a \"People's Champion\" with all the associated privileges. His publisher gives him the manuscript of a novel, which turns out to be by a younger rival, and to be very good and, reading between the lines, somewhat subversive. During this time, he meets and falls in love with an Austrian girl who i This is not a wildly exciting page turner, but is gripping nevertheless. The story is set in East Germany, mostly before the fall of the Berlin Wall. Bruno Krug wrote one very well known book, and is now a \"People's Champion\" with all the associated privileges. His publisher gives him the manuscript of a novel, which turns out to be by a younger rival, and to be very good and, reading between the lines, somewhat subversive. During this time, he meets and falls in love with an Austrian girl who is studying the viola in East Germany and Bruno is convinced that she really cares for the younger rival. The oppressive atmosphere of the East German state, the spying and the control exerted over the population, the shortages and difficulties of everyday life are wonderfully conveyed. Bruno is a complex, jealous and difficult character. Everyone seems to be lying to cover up one thing or another. Deception is a way of life. Intriguing. ...more I really enjoyed the company of Bruno Krug. There are few things more attractive than a sense of humour, and Krug's slightly sardonic, self-deprecating wit certainly appealed to me. Then there's the inner core of sadness - the orphan past! - that isn't unattractive either. Of course, the man has his flaws, but at least he is candid about them, and I couldn't help thinking: if I were in his place, living in a police state, would I have been so very much braver, more honest or less scheming? Proba I really enjoyed the company of Bruno Krug. There are few things more attractive than a sense of humour, and Krug's slightly sardonic, self-deprecating wit certainly appealed to me. Then there's the inner core of sadness - the orphan past! - that isn't unattractive either. Of course, the man has his flaws, but at least he is candid about them, and I couldn't help thinking: if I were in his place, living in a police state, would I have been so very much braver, more honest or less scheming? Probably not. And I think the same goes for most readers who get indignant about Krug's crimes and misdemeanors. But see for yourself. ...more A definite treat: great story, top notch writing. Very sad in the end, but surprisingly funny along the way. 4.5 stars. Captivating, funny, suspenseful. I was quite absorbed in time and place. I am looking forward to reading this book! The reviews have been excellent. Amazing book. 1. My favourite setting (post WWII) 2. Greta plot & engaging story 3. STIRS EMOTIONS. Found the book by chance, and could not be happier. An engaging book, great use of the East German setting, an interesting exploration of the writer and his/her ego (what, me? naaah), and of the dangers of professional jealousy. The only reason I didn't give this 5 stars was because of the author's frequent habit of giving readers the head's-up just before something was about to happen, as a way of raising tension. As if he didn't trust his story, which he should have, because it was working. He didn't need those little moments of, \"It was the la An engaging book, great use of the East German setting, an interesting exploration of the writer and his/her ego (what, me? naaah), and of the dangers of professional jealousy. The only reason I didn't give this 5 stars was because of the author's frequent habit of giving readers the head's-up just before something was about to happen, as a way of raising tension. As if he didn't trust his story, which he should have, because it was working. He didn't need those little moments of, \"It was the last time I would ever see her,\" or, \"Everything was about to change.\" Other than that, a great read. ...more This was a good one. Once got into this book, I enjoyed it very much. This is not a casual easy read.<---C>Philip Sington</---C>", "Title": "The Valley of Unknowing"},
