{"Comments": "The Subprime Mortgage Crisis...it\u2019s too easy to just lay blame on a cabal of greed-constipated Wall Street sphincters who unzipped their consciences , yanked down their morals and dropped a huge deuce on the U.S.<---F> financial system</---F>. In many ways it\u2019s TRUE and it feels REALLY good to say...but it\u2019s too easy. There were clearly some major crooks, scumbags and swindlers involved in this monetary atrocity...a number of whom should have been taken out to the desert and shot, in my very pissed off opini The Subprime Mortgage Crisis...it\u2019s too easy to just lay blame on a cabal of greed-constipated Wall Street sphincters who unzipped their consciences , yanked down their morals and dropped a huge deuce on the U.S. financial system. In many ways it\u2019s TRUE and it feels REALLY good to say...but it\u2019s too easy. There were clearly some major crooks, scumbags and swindlers involved in this monetary atrocity...a number of whom should have been taken out to the desert and shot, in my very pissed off opinion. However,<---M> more than anything else</---M>, the crisis was caused by monumental stupidity, a lack of proper checks and balances and a blind, mindless momentum that, once started and fueled by quick profits, became an unstoppable force dragging down the economy. <---A>Michael</---A> Lewis opens up the windows on this malodorous morass and let\u2019s some of the stink out by giving us an easily understandable, and eminently readable, synopsis of the financial ponzi-scheme that produced the most astoundingly epic financial crisis in U.S. history. Told through the lens of a small cast of brilliant, eccentric and highly entertaining money mavens who were the first to see that the Subprime \"emperor\" was naked and dangerously out of control, Lewis traces the crisis from its origins in the mid-1990s through the bursting of the bubble that began in 2007 and is still leaking all over us. Lewis does a terrific job making this painful, and still fresh memory, an enjoyable read. He also should be complimented on making the extremely compmlicated financial instruments and inner workings of the crisis understandable to the lawman by showing us their origin through the major places of the time. The primary viewpoints used include: Those that were Right: Steve Eisman : An anti-social, verbally abusive hedge fund manager with no ability or desire to filter content from his thoughts to his words. Reading about Steve is hysterical as he would offend almost every Wall Street type he came in contact with\u2026and he was usually right. Dr. Michael Burry : A trained neurologist with Asperger\u2019s Syndrome and one eye who picked stocks in his spare time and eventually formed one of the most successful investment firms (<---B>Scion Capital</---B>) in the country by making large, large, LARGE bets against the Subprime Mortgage market. Meredith Whitney : a banking analyst who rose to fame when she predicted, in 2007, the massive failures of Citigroup and Bear Stearns based on their involvement in the Subprime Mortgage market. Those that were Wrong: Wing Chau : Head of Merrill Lynch\u2019s CDO (Collateralized debt obligations) Group who knew that he was so right about the viability of the Subprime lending market and the sustainability of housing prices that he ended up losing Billions and bankrupting his employer. Howie Hubler : Not content to half ass it, Hubler went ahead and lost 9 Billion Dollars on a single trade involving credit default swaps*. * While there are a book\u2019s worth of details, in essence a credit default swap agreement is an insurance policy whereby one party (the buyer) pays the insuring party (the seller) a series of fees (like an insurance premium) and the insuring party agrees to pay the buyer the face amount of a home loan if it defaults. When foreclosures escalated in the subprime mortgage market, the seller\u2019s of these agreements, which included most of the major WallStreet firms, were S...C...R...E...W...E...D. Very badly screwed...along with the rest of us. Joseph Cassano : Nicknamed \u201cPatient Zero\u201d of the meltdown, Joe was the executive at AIG in charge of the company\u2019s subsidiary (AIG Financial Products Corporation) that issued billions in credit default swaps (many to Steve Eisman and Michael Burry) that ended up coming due when the housing market tanked. One of the most interesting aspects of the book for me was how eccentric the people on the \"right\" side of the crisis were. Lewis shows us just how bold and anti-herd mentality a person has to be in order to be convinced that everyone else in the market is crazy and that they are right. The people in this tale are very, very unique individuals and it makes the reading a lot of fun. This is a terrific book. Well written, thoroughly engaging and paced very, very well. It entertains while showing us succinctly how we went for economic robustness to just bustness\u2026 Now, there are aspects of the financial meltdown that I would have liked to have seen discussed though I will not call their absence a gripe on my part. A book dealing with all of the permutations and trickle down effects of the mortgage crisis would have looked like a multiple volume encyclopedia and would be a tough read. I just would have liked a little more on the breadth and depth of the disaster that the subprime mortgage market created. The meltdown in the residential housing market following the massive short-term appreciation in the housing market caused by the proliferation of sub-prime mortgages rippled through the entire economy including: * the massive increase in the value of raw land for residential housing developments that eventually bankrupted so many home builders who spent ungodly amounts per acre on property based on the continuing increase in home prices. * the related surge in the price of commercial and industrial real estate that followed close behind the jump in residential land prices and led to the largest batch of commercial/industrial foreclosures in U.S. history. There is no aspect of the U.S. economy that was not significantly impacted by the greed-fueled, short-sighted debacle of the sub-prime mortgage crisis\u2026and no guarantee that there is not significant pain still to come. Still, for what this book does, it should be applauded. For the reasons stated above, and because it is a terrifically told story, you should read this book. 4.0 stars. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!! ...more Michael Lewis looks at a handful of people who saw what was happening in the US economy, tried to sound an alarm, but also used their knowledge to make barrels of cash. If the tales told here, following the fiscal 9/11 that is Wall Street ethics, do not scare you away from investing with any Wall Street firm, I do not know what will. Lewis may single-handedly revive stuffing cash in mattresses as a savings option. What becomes clear is that there is no substitute for doing the hard work of gathe Michael Lewis looks at a handful of people who saw what was happening in the US economy, tried to sound an alarm, but also used their knowledge to make barrels of cash. If the tales told here, following the fiscal 9/11 that is Wall Street ethics, do not scare you away from investing with any Wall Street firm, I do not know what will. Lewis may single-handedly revive stuffing cash in mattresses as a savings option. What becomes clear is that there is no substitute for doing the hard work of gathering and analyzing data. That, really, is what the people portrayed here did. And they were confident enough in their analysis that they used it to personal advantage. Not all are Gordon Gecko types, sociopathic greed machines. Some even tried to warn legislators and corporations at risk just how crazy the bubbling market had become. I suppose it should come as no shock that short-term gain, even if based on insanity, will always triumph long-term rationality if it means reducing the next quarter\u2019s profits. Well, almost always. One key is the willingness of ratings agencies, like Moody\u2019s and S&P, to hold their noses and rate as triple-A offerings that should have been rated as triple-crap. As long as the ratings agencies are reliant on businesses which bring products to them to rate, it is difficult to see how meaningful change can be effected. Lewis has produced a very interesting portrait not only of a group of super-bright analysts, but of Wall Street gone wild. The book offers insight into the details of how the mess was made possible. It is one of the best looks at the financial crisis I have seen. Maybe I should invest in a better mattress? 1/22/16 - Saw the film tonight, and it is fracking brilliant! ...more \u201dThe ability of Wall Street traders to see themselves in their success and their management in their failure would later be echoed, when their firms, which disdained the need for government regulation in good times, insisted on being rescued by government in bad times. Success was an individual achievement; failure was a social problem.\u201d The real estate market in the United States after several years of frantic growth peaked in 2004, which was the year I decided to start buying properties. I was \u201dThe ability of Wall Street traders to see themselves in their success and their management in their failure would later be echoed, when their firms, which disdained the need for government regulation in good times, insisted on being rescued by government in bad times. Success was an individual achievement; failure was a social problem.\u201d The real estate market in the United States after several years of frantic growth peaked in 2004, which was the year I decided to start buying properties. I was able to secure 6% interest on about any property I wanted to buy with no money down. I had an 800+ credit score, which had bankers salivating when I walked in the door. I put everything on 30 year notes to give me more cash flow. The first time I bought a property, the banker wrote it up as an ARM (adjustable rate mortgage). He showed me how much lower my payment would be. Of course, what he didn\u2019t explain was what the payment would look like when the interest rate went up. (I\u2019m the offspring of a farmer and had the opportunity to watch my father negotiate several mortgage notes. My father always said to never trust a banker and, furthermore, never trust that a banker knows what he is doing.) When I told the banker I wanted a fixed mortgage, he looked shocked for a moment. He said, \u201cI haven\u2019t written a fixed note in so long that I\u2019ll have to look up how to do it.\u201d Warning bells were going off in my head. My friends and acquaintances from all over the country were buying properties. Many were buying properties they could not afford and knew it, but they were hoping to ride the positive wave of escalating property values which would allow them to keep tapping their equity to pay their bills. Many of them fell into the category of subprime mortgages. \u201dA subprime mortgage is a type of loan granted to individuals with poor credit histories (often below 600), who, as a result of their deficient credit ratings, would not be able to qualify for conventional mortgages.\u201d Michael Lewis talks about \u201dthin file FICO scores,\u201d which are people with short credit histories, but have good credit. One example that Lewis uses is a Mexican strawberry picker making $14,000, who qualified for a loan for $750,000 all because he hadn\u2019t proved he couldn\u2019t pay. Anyone with any sense, you don\u2019t need business acumen for this one, can look at that situation and KNOW with certainty that strawberry picker will not be able to make his payments. The whole lending system, from the big boys on Wall Street down to the loan officer in your local bank, was making and encouraging too many loans destined to fail. It was ok though because they were going to bundle them together with a bunch of other notes and sell them to someone else. Unfortunately, and I blame the car industry for this, Americans are much more interested in a lower payment than they are in how long it will take to pay off a note or how much interest they will end up paying. What is the first thing a car salesman asks a car buying prospect? How big a monthly payment can you pay? It doesn\u2019t matter what type of car or how expensive that vehicle is; what is important is what they are capable of paying per month. Car loans used to be three years in length. Now, most people take seven years to pay off their car. They have no idea how much they will have paid for that vehicle at the end of seven years. I recently bought a new Jeep Cherokee, and when they brought the paperwork, I realized that they hadn\u2019t even asked me if I wanted a five year or a seven year note. They automatically wrote it up for seven. I had them change it to five. So that same mentality transferred over to mortgages. It was easy to talk Americans into ARMs because of the lower payment offer (interest only) compared to a fixed rate. In most cases, I can guarantee they were never offered or shown a fixed rate. \u201dInterest only ARM mortgages were only 5.85% of the pool in early 2004, but by late 2004 they were 17.48% of the pool, and by late summer 2005 25.34% of the pool. To say that everything was getting out of balance was an understatement. We were being set up for a disaster. If the real estate dipped or remained flat, the whole, forgive the pun, house of cards, was going to come down. Home owners had to keep gaining equity to stay afloat. 2009 was the year that I decided to refinance all my properties. The interest rate was unbelievably low, and one of my fears was that the paradigm would shift and interest rates would begin to climb. I was on a fixed rate of 6%, which historically that was a great rate for home mortgages, but the interest rate I was about to get was going to blow my mind. 4.25% (now you can probably write a primary loan for less). Not only did they give me that rate on my primary home, but also across the board on all my rental properties. My main goal for refinancing was to lower the interest, but also to take my 30 year mortgages and put them on 15 years. The banker said some interesting things to me. One was that they were willing to waive the fees if I\u2019d write new 30 year mortgage notes. He showed me how much lower my monthly payments (ahh yes that old stratagem) would be compared to the 15 year notes. He said that if I wanted to pay them off in fifteen years, all I would have to do is make bigger principle payments. This is extremely bad advice. Most people never make an extra payment on their car or house or with some, totally insane consumers, even their credit cards. They pay the minimum they have to pay. One of the problems with most loan officers is that they really don\u2019t understand the loans they are writing. I had one property that had a house with a trailer house on the same lot. I could almost hear the pop in the banker\u2019s head when he realized there was a trailer house involved. They don\u2019t finance trailer houses. I explained that the trailer house needed to be considered personal property; I had plenty of equity in the house to meet the criteria for the loan. I had to go up the chain of the bank until finally I was talking to some guy in Milwaukee who got what I was saying and approved the loan. I don\u2019t like the fact that the person who makes the decision about any loan I make is not the person sitting in front of me, but that is the banking system we work with now. The crises of 2008 should have never happened. Regulations on banks and Wall Street had been relaxed. Without regulations they went crazy. They lost their minds. \u201dThere were more morons than crooks, but the crooks were higher up.\u201d This book focuses on the handful of brokers who could see the crash coming and decided to bet against homeowners being able to make their payments. It was dicey because if the government stepped in and shored up those home loans, they would lose their bet. They won, and they won big. At the time, I supported President Bush\u2019s administration stepping in with a bailout for Wall Street. I was wrong to do so. I was afraid of a further collapse that would bring even those of us who were solvent down with the ones already under water. (I do believe that the bailout of the auto industry was an astute decision that ended up saving that industry and thousands of blue collar jobs.) I have only a few thousand in the stock market these days. I took my money out and bought a business. I wish more Americans would invest in something tangible, like a business or real estate. I\u2019d rather that when Wall Street goes crazy with greed again, and they will, that they don\u2019t have the retirements of middle class Americans to lose on some greedy short term gain venture. My advice to everyone is to really KNOW your finances. Don\u2019t assume that a banker or accountant knows what is best for you. Don\u2019t put your future in someone else\u2019s hands. Use their expertise to educate yourself. Don\u2019t over leverage yourself under the assumption that you will make more money in the future. Buy at a price you can afford now, not what you think you will be able to afford later. If you are thinking about buying a home, the concept of buy low and sell high should apply. If possible, wait for a buyer\u2019s market. Buy below market if you can so that you have some ready made equity already in your home. (The quicker you can get enough equity, usually 20%, in your home to avoid PMI payments the better. Private Mortgage Insurance protects the lender if you default on your loan though THEY benefit you pay the premium.) Don\u2019t fall in love with a house until you own it. Don\u2019t ever risk money you can\u2019t afford to lose. This is a painful book to read from the standpoint of the recklessness, the greed, the foolishness that all contributed to the 2008 subprime mortgage crises. I wasn\u2019t shocked to learn that the \u201cexperts\u201d didn\u2019t even know what they were selling or buying most of the time. They didn\u2019t understand their own acronyms. Like, what the fxxk is a CDO (collateralized debt obligation), and what the hell are tranches? It\u2019s okay for me not to know, but these people at Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers, UBS, Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley didn\u2019t really understand what they were either. These supposedly best and brightest were blinded by greed. They couldn\u2019t see that the track in front of their roaring train loaded with subprime mortgages...had disappeared and the gorge they fell into was... deep. I\u2019m really looking forward to seeing the movie. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten . ...more Original review: May 4, 2010 Lewis has a talent for making his readers feel smart. Taking in his best works, you\u2019re granted kinship with the elite. Like a trader at Salomon Brothers, you might laugh at the chumps in the bond market; or like the money-constrained boss of the Oakland A\u2019s, you might cobble together a winning line-up by way of statistics; or like a genius of modern day football, you would recognize the importance of a great left tackle in protecting your quarterback\u2019s blind side. Now Original review: May 4, 2010 Lewis has a talent for making his readers feel smart. Taking in his best works, you\u2019re granted kinship with the elite. Like a trader at Salomon Brothers, you might laugh at the chumps in the bond market; or like the money-constrained boss of the Oakland A\u2019s, you might cobble together a winning line-up by way of statistics; or like a genius of modern day football, you would recognize the importance of a great left tackle in protecting your quarterback\u2019s blind side. Now, with The Big Short , you will have no doubt foreseen the folly of investing in subprime mortgages with their impending defaults. He does this in a very readable way, too. The characters are all interesting \u2013 often genuinely quirky. And his vantage point as a quasi-insider signifies the straight scoop. Whatever the topic, he explains its subtleties well enough that you can paraphrase it to impress friends over cocktails. Our man Lewis was clever to focus on the winners of the bet. As he explained in an interview, those were the ones who were willing to talk to him. They saw what became obvious in hindsight: that many of the loans backing mortgage securities were originated with very low standards applied (by firms who didn\u2019t have to eat their own cooking), were issued with teaser rates that would soon adjust up, and were likely to default as soon as the air started coming out of the big housing balloon. For reasons Lewis explains well, the bet against the bubble was not so apparent to many. These securities were hidden in tranches of complicated mortgage-backed securities with obscure features that made it harder to do proper due diligence. They were also rated too high by Moody\u2019s and S&P for the default potential they contained (partly because the agencies were easily duped by the Goldmans of the world who were paying their fees and wanted AAA assets to vend). Plus, there was little to go on from past default data because such high levels of credit unworthiness had never before been experienced. Modeling assumptions were poor, too. For instance, it was thought that diversification across regions would reduce risks. The widespread downturn in housing showed otherwise, of course. Default correlations were high. It hurt the cause, too, when some of the strongest personalities in the business, like Cassano at AIG and Hubler at Morgan Stanley, were also some of the wrongest. The misdeeds on Wall Street were spotlighted well. I couldn\u2019t help feeling, though, especially at the end, that Lewis had overstated his case. There were times when he claimed the investment banks were stupid for not knowing the true value of these assets and at the same time duplicitous in passing them off to customers. You can\u2019t have it both ways, at least not in that case. I was also hoping that he would weigh in on some of the other factors that contributed to the crash, such as the role of government with its CRA program and the poor oversight of its sponsored enterprises, toxic waste-makers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Other points Lewis made against the investment banks were more deserving, I thought, among them, the fact that they are no longer partnerships (where any losses would truly hit home), but rather corporations with limited liability. Agency theory in economics points to the problem of employees receiving a much bigger share of the upside (with bonus structures as they are), and a lot less of any downside. Riskier strategies result. That doesn\u2019t explain everything, though. Several of the notable blow-ups included principal architects who were also major shareholders. For instance, Richard Fuld lost over half a billion in share value when Lehman went under. The other thing I thought was noteworthy about Lewis\u2019s critique was something he alluded to in the introduction. He said when he wrote Liar\u2019s Poker that he intended for it to be a finger-wagging at the industry\u2019s bad behavior. Many read it instead as a how-to manual. This disconcerted him, and it was apparent that he went to greater lengths this time to dwell on the negatives. That said, might we still get the sense that he wants it both ways? His descriptions are alluring, the language of the cognoscenti is enticing, the personalities are bigger than life, and the market savvy that decides who wins the pot is celebrated. Wittingly or not, there\u2019s an extent to which he glamorizes. I\u2019ll take him at his word that he doesn\u2019t want to see bright young people flocking to Wall Street anymore, but it seems there\u2019s a small, slightly disingenuous part of him that still finds it all pretty fascinating. In summary: strongly recommended as a guidebook on the crisis, very entertaining, but maybe not the one-stop shopping it might have been for assigning all warranted blame. Addendum: 1/26/2016 I never would have guessed this book had movie potential. And I never would have thought that if it was adapted, that they\u2019d bring in the director of Anchorman and Talladega Nights to do it. Now I half-way expect the Farrelly brothers to counter with a version of Think and Grow Rich . Or maybe those guys who made Airplane! and the Naked Gun movies could team up to put Who Moved My Cheese? onto the big screen. Now that I\u2019m thinking of it, does Mickey Mouse still do movies? ...more Update: Christmas greetings to those of you who celebrate! Paul and I are seeing this movie today! I'm guessing the movie will be great! Hasn't everyone read this book? In my area --extra copies could be found at bus stops around town -on tables in Star Bucks - I wouldn't have been surprised if books were added to people's grocery bags. At one time this was the 'it' book to read. \"The Big Short\" was everywhere. Michael Lewis became a popular-household name.... Hugely entertaining and informative lo Update: Christmas greetings to those of you who celebrate! Paul and I are seeing this movie today! I'm guessing the movie will be great! Hasn't everyone read this book? In my area --extra copies could be found at bus stops around town -on tables in Star Bucks - I wouldn't have been surprised if books were added to people's grocery bags. At one time this was the 'it' book to read. \"The Big Short\" was everywhere. Michael Lewis became a popular-household name.... Hugely entertaining and informative look at the current economic shambles! --- If you have not read this yet--go to your local library --(I'm sure you can find a free copy) --and refresh your history with the financial disaster which 'touched/touches' our lives... BEFORE seeing the movie this year. The movie looks great! 'Almost' as wonderful as Michael Lewis is at being a storyteller. ...more Remember that point, in recent years, when we all started to notice something strange? Houses were getting more and more expensive, interest rates were dropping more and more, and most of us knew someone who had no money, but was able to get a huge mortgage. And then there were all the stories of people buying houses with no money down and interest-only payments for three years. How exactly were these people expecting to make principal payments in three years? And why was anyone lending them mon Remember that point, in recent years, when we all started to notice something strange? Houses were getting more and more expensive, interest rates were dropping more and more, and most of us knew someone who had no money, but was able to get a huge mortgage. And then there were all the stories of people buying houses with no money down and interest-only payments for three years. How exactly were these people expecting to make principal payments in three years? And why was anyone lending them money? In \u201cThe Big Short,\u201d Michael Lewis explains that all of this was just the tip of an iceberg: an iceberg floating in exceedingly murky water. There was a reason for all of the bad mortgages. The people making the mortgages were selling them, so they didn\u2019t care how bad they were. The mortgages were being bought by companies that bundled them and turned them into bonds\u2014which they were able to sell, so they didn\u2019t care how bad the mortgages were either. In order to be sold, the bonds had to be rated by one of three rating agencies. In a reasonable financial system, rating agency analyst would be the career the most ambitious business students aspired to. As it is, these analysts are some of the lowest-paid and least-respected employees in the financial world. The smartest and most talented people on Wall Street are never at the rating agencies. (They tend to become bond traders.) The agencies are paid to rate bonds by the very companies that produce the bonds. As mortgage bonds were a new kind of bond, they needed help understanding them. So the same companies also explained the bonds to the rating agencies. None of this was illegal: in fact, it is standard practice. Not surprisingly under the circumstances, a great many of these bonds (which increasingly consisted of utterly worthless mortgages) were rated triple A, the highest possible rating. The bonds that consisted of the absolutely worst mortgages were given a triple B rating. But the financial companies soon realized that triple B-rated mortgage bonds could in turn be bundled into another financial product, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO). Presented with the CDOs, the rating agencies tended to give them triple A ratings\u2014which suggested that they were as safe an investment as U.S. Treasury bonds. Shockingly, very few people, at any level of the financial world or the U.S. government, understood that the ratings\u2014and the bonds they described\u2014were worthless. This is a book about many things, but it is particularly a story of incentives, and the calamitous effects of incentivizing irresponsible behavior. In a system in which virtually everyone had an incentive to do the wrong thing, almost everyone did: and almost everyone, from mortgage lenders to the Fed, failed to understand that disaster was imminent. \u201cThe Big Short\u201d describes the very small\u2014and very eccentric\u2014group of people who saw it coming. The cast of characters begins with Steve Eisman, a socially inept hedge fund manager, who had turned cynic after witnessing a flagrant case of fraud on which the government refused to take action. Mike Burry is a brilliant hedge fund manager who is virtually incapable of human relationships, a problem which he blamed on his glass eye but turned out to be undiagnosed Asperger\u2019s syndrome. Charlie Ledley and Ben Hockett were two rather aimless friends who proved to have an uncanny ability to work the financial market. Greg Lippmann was a cynical Deutsche Bank bond trader who realized that the market was unsustainable. They shared a key insight: that the market was going to collapse, and therefore the only safe bet was a bet against the market. (To short a bond is to bet that it will lose value.) Michael Lewis rivetingly describes how they first made, and then won, this bet, becoming extremely rich in the process. Recently\u2013at Politics & Prose Bookstore, at an entertaining event with Michael Lewis\u2013Joel Achenbach said that this book had undermined his belief in capitalism, and asked if we should all become socialists. It was a joke, but it\u2019s also a fair question. Lewis depicts a system in utter disarray, where financial products are too complex to be understood by either buyers or sellers; the agencies in charge of evaluating these products are both under-valued and embroiled in a serious conflict of interest; and there are no incentives to encourage responsible behavior. All of this links the health of the U.S. economy to a large gamble in which virtually no one has any idea what he is doing. It is to be hoped that this book will help foster a movement toward a truly sane financial system. ...more \u201cBe fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful.\u201d - Warren Buffett Some of the most essential financial lessons I ever learned came from comic books back in the \u201890s when a bubble fueled by idiotic speculation on crappy books marketed as \u2018collector\u2019s editions\u2019 eventually burst. It left me with several copies of all the variant covers for Jim Lee\u2019s X-Men #1, and the realization that something is only as valuable as what someone will actually pay you for it. It was also e \u201cBe fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful.\u201d - Warren Buffett Some of the most essential financial lessons I ever learned came from comic books back in the \u201890s when a bubble fueled by idiotic speculation on crappy books marketed as \u2018collector\u2019s editions\u2019 eventually burst. It left me with several copies of all the variant covers for Jim Lee\u2019s X-Men #1, and the realization that something is only as valuable as what someone will actually pay you for it. It was also eye opening to discover that a large company like Marvel would cut its own throat in the long term by compromising quality which alienated its most loyal readers for a short term gain and resulted in the company filing for bankruptcy in \u201996. (Don\u2019t worry. They landed on their feet.) A decade later I didn\u2019t pay much attention to the real estate market because I wasn\u2019t a home owner at the time, but occasionally I\u2019d see or read some news about the fantastic housing market that was booming. People were seeing the value of their homes skyrocket, house prices were soaring, they were still selling, and a whole lot of people were getting very rich as analysts promised that the gravy train would roll on forever. \u201cWell, that\u2019s not gonna end well,\u201d I\u2019d think remembering all those bagged copies of The Death of Superman and Image comics sitting in my parents basement. Sadly, it didn\u2019t occur to me to try and capitalize on those idle thoughts, but I\u2019d like to think that if I had met any of the guys featured in this book about that time I\u2019d have drawn on that experience and handed them my every dime I had to bet on the whole thing falling apart. Michael Lewis has written a succinct and fascinating explanation as to why and how a handful of people recognized the coming financial crisis years before it hit and found ways to profit enourmously from it. Some were smart and cynical Wall Street insiders who knew that a whole lot of people in their industry didn\u2019t even realize the risk that their institutions had taken on when they were buying up blocks of subprime mortgages. An eccentric former medical doctor turned hedge fund manager was sure mortgages being handed out to anyone who asked would became a wave of defaults when the low teaser interest rates expired after a couple of years. A couple of outsiders who had made a small fortune by playing stock market longshots saw the upside in laying out a relatively low amount of cash that would pay off big if things went south. You might wonder at why no one sounded an alarm if they saw the collapse coming, and the short answer is that they couldn\u2019t get anyone to listen to them when they tried. It was so inconceivable to the banks and Wall Street that the real estate market might collapse that these people pretty much had to invent ways to bet on it happening. Even the ones who could see the writing on the wall would find themselves frequently shocked at the levels of greed and stupidity they\u2019d encounter as well as the utter lack of government oversight that might have prevented it. There\u2019s a lot of fascinating human elements behind all of these stories, and Mike Burry, the doctor turned financial guru, is a particularly interesting person to read about. Obviously there\u2019s many complex financial pieces that have to be explained and much of it was so complicated that even the people involved didn\u2019t understand all of it. So there's a few parts where I found myself scratching my head. However, just as he made the story of finding new ways to measure the performance and value of baseball players in Moneyball interesting Lewis also manages to make his explanations of things like credit default swaps readable. It\u2019s slightly depressing to read since it\u2019s a reminder of the whole meltdown in 2008, but it\u2019s nice to hear that at least a few deserving people got something out of the whole mess. I\u2019d also highly recommend the film adaptation of this which mined the story for black humor and found very clever ways to explain the financial pieces. ...more This book made me want to vomit, then take a bath in a tub of bleach. Not because it's not well-written, but because the story is so repugnant and grotesque. Lewis' last book \"The Blind Side\" told the stories of a lot of people who, when faced with impossible situations, chose to do the right thing and/or work harder. This book exclusively features people who were criminally stupid, those who were just flat-out criminals, and the scumbags who were smart enough to profit from it when the financial This book made me want to vomit, then take a bath in a tub of bleach. Not because it's not well-written, but because the story is so repugnant and grotesque. Lewis' last book \"The Blind Side\" told the stories of a lot of people who, when faced with impossible situations, chose to do the right thing and/or work harder. This book exclusively features people who were criminally stupid, those who were just flat-out criminals, and the scumbags who were smart enough to profit from it when the financial world was burning down. One sweetheart described himself as \"orgasmic\" when he received reports on the failing housing market. This guy Eisman, who Lewis places centrally in the story as if he was some kind of hero, sniffed out the giant steaming pile of crapulence early and bet heavily against it. There is no mention that Eisman ever made any attempts to contact regulators or even reporters, only that he wanted to obscure what he was doing so that he could do it longer and for increasingly greater amounts. He walked away from the debacle with a $500 million profit - and has the gall to give interviews to Michael Lewis, all indignant about how the banks were victimizing the poor?! It's psychopathic. In addition to Eisman, several other folks in the narrative also figure out what going on. Unfortunately, none of them worked for the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the FBI or the Wall Street Journal - they all worked for hedge funds. They all actively participated in the machinery, reaped returns in the hundreds of percent on their investment, and clearly pat themselves on the back for getting out while the going was good. As the final slap in the face, the government swoops in in the third act to pass out pallets of cash to sinking banks with almost no strings. Yes, Main Street America got taken for a ride. Most of the people who took out these subprime loans probably had no idea of the massive financial malfeasance going on several rungs up the ladder. And the same population that saw their savings wiped out and their homes repossessed will now have the pleasure of paying for the bailout with their tax dollars for the next century. But some of the blame lies at Main Street America's door as well. So Average Joe doesn't understand complex derivative products. He surely understands \"too good to be true.\" Some people took interest only, floating rate, negative-amortizing mortgages. Did they really think, \"I can borrow buckets of money, truly insane multiples of my gross income, make miniscule payments to start, and have the rest of what I owe rolled into a bigger principal, the interest rate on which I don't even know - this is going to end well\"? I occasionally watch Suze Orman's show, and get the feeling that some Americans truly don't understand the difference between being able to afford something, and being able to afford the minimum payments on something. That this catastrophe happened within a decade of Enron is unfathomable. And the scariest thing is, it doesn't sound like anyone - not the public, the banks or the government - learned enough to prevent this sort of thing from happening again. Apocalypse is coming, y'all. ...more It was a good book, but it disappointed. I will tell you what let me down: 1. One of the reasons for the credit crash was the lenght of the easy monetary policy pursued by the FED and Greenspan after 9/11. Mr. Lewis devotes about one paragraph towards the end of the book to it and Mr. Greenspan is only mentioned three times, even though his policies were the cause of the housing bubble, my opinion. 2. I found the book repetitious. He tells the same story from three different points of view, even t It was a good book, but it disappointed. I will tell you what let me down: 1. One of the reasons for the credit crash was the lenght of the easy monetary policy pursued by the FED and Greenspan after 9/11. Mr. Lewis devotes about one paragraph towards the end of the book to it and Mr. Greenspan is only mentioned three times, even though his policies were the cause of the housing bubble, my opinion. 2. I found the book repetitious. He tells the same story from three different points of view, even though it was the same story. The first and last part of the book were very informative, the middle could have been skipped and the book would have accomplished the same. 3. No mention of the role the Government Sponsored Entities. Freddie and Fannie, played in the roll of the CDO market and the fact that their over leverage will cost the taxpayer over $1 trillion. On the other hand, I found the description of the role and CDO managers and the rating agencies, moody and SP, absolutely fascinating. The part that really astounded me is the fact that this individual were not prosecuted for crminal behaviour. At least they should have been civilly prosecuted for failure to do due dilligence. There are also good leassons to be learned. Do not invest in thing you do not understand and do your homework when you hire an investment manager. Finally, we ned to have our government invest money in the employment of individuals who are as competent in investigating fraud as investment firms do in hiring crooks. ...more I have to SHOUT during this review. Now I finally know the sleaziest, oily, untruthful, and arrogant class of people in the US--financial brokers at the big Wall Street investment banks. The Big Short is a rare look deep inside the machinery that broke the spine of our real estate industry. This is not the more common bottom-up look at the mortgage loan sweatshop industry; instead, this is a top-down view from the rarefied air above 20 stories at Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merryl Lynch, JP M I have to SHOUT during this review. Now I finally know the sleaziest, oily, untruthful, and arrogant class of people in the US--financial brokers at the big Wall Street investment banks. The Big Short is a rare look deep inside the machinery that broke the spine of our real estate industry. This is not the more common bottom-up look at the mortgage loan sweatshop industry; instead, this is a top-down view from the rarefied air above 20 stories at Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merryl Lynch, JP Morgan, Lehman Brothers, Bear Sterns, Citigroup, and the other fu**ing RAPISTS in south Manhattan. I'm a fiscal conservative (and a social moderate), but I'm slowly, creakily becoming more convinced that our free market needs a bit more regulation. That concept was anathema to me just a couple years ago. But, to the big boys, the ones who won't deal unless there's more than $100 million on the table, the free market is an opportunity to collude, cheat, lie, and hedge against forces in the free market that eventually--but slowly--follow their maneuvering with mute regulations. These financiers move ahead of the market that they help mold and shape behind them like dumb, brown clay. But what happened with the mortgage industry, especially at the very top with mortgage-backed Credit Default Swaps (CDS) and Collateral Debt Obligations (CDO), was truly a once in a lifetime collusion that generated multi- trillions of dollars of imaginary money based on an industry-wide hallucination that the US taxpayer made real by bailing the IDIOTS out. CDSs and CDOs are a type of bundled bond certificate. The definition and concept of these debt instruments are so arcane that the overwhelming majority of Ivy-Leaguers that packaged and traded them had no idea what collateral was in them. Yet trades of $10 Billion at a pop were as common on Wall Street as Italian suits. At the time of the crash, 2007-2008, even the hundred million salaried CEOs couldn't answer the most simple questions about CDOs, and the risk their firms were running by owning them. In a nutshell a CDS is this: a loan company finds hundreds of buyers that DON'T HAVE TO BE QUALIFIED , and sells them exotic floating-interest only adjustable rate mortgages. Mortgage companies then repackage several sets of hundreds of loans from across the country. The mortgage company then sells this package of thousands of loans to the big investment firms. The firms then merge and repackage these loans into bonds that represent tens of thousands of mortgages across the country. They push these mortgage-backed bonds to the rating agencies (Moody's and S & P) as CDSs, which are then given a rating from Triple-B to Triple-A. These CDSs can now be sold in the market to hedge funds, municipal retirement funds, collegiate holding funds, and international pension funds. The bonds have been repackaged so many times, that even the most savvy investors cannot clearly determine the particulars of the mortgages in each bond. A CDO is even more complicated AND SLEAZY . A CDO is made up of all the lower and lowest rated CDSs. For example, a Triple-B rated CDS is more difficult and expensive to sell, because of its ostensible inherent risk. A CDO basically launders those low rated CDSs. Yes, launders them like a freaking Mafia drug front. So, you take all these poorly rated CDSs, shuffle, and repackage them with other poorly rated CDSs, and suddenly you have a new bond vehicle that receives a new rating from a lowly Triple-B to a stellar Triple-A. Just keep repackaging and reshuffling and eventually you can kluge together a combination of the worst possible double-reverse-negative-amortizing-40-year-floating-post-adjustable-rate-mortgages into an investment vehicle that receives a Triple-A rating and can be sold in the billions to other large investors. Meanwhile, at every step in the laundering process, Goldman Sucks and Merryl Stench and Lehman Fu**ers and the others each take a percentage of the overall value of the bond. These commissions quickly arrive at Carl Sagan's favorite number, billions-and-billions. So what happens when people begin to default on the underlying mortgages, like they did in the thousands, especially in states like California, Florida and Arizona. AHA !! Nobody, not one intermediate institution believed that mass default was possible. Wall Street was particularly insistent that defaults, at rates that would hurt CDOs, was simply not possible. It had never happened before and all their foolproof analysis proved that that was impossible. The rating agencies too, the gatekeepers in the middle, also ran calculus showing that a bond with tens of thousands of mortgages couldn't default at once. At the most, everyone on Wall Street saw a 5% default rate as the worst possible scenario. And yet, if you dug into the CDOs, you'd discover that most of them were NOT heterogeneous; instead, they were comprised of all the crappy exotic loans made within a few months on the same types of homes to people who couldn't afford them, and they were all going to reset within a few months of each other. But nobody, with all their arrogant and condescending intelligence could know for sure that most exotic loans from 2004 onwards were made to folks who didn't need proof of employment, proof of collateral, or even proof of citizenship. Strippers in Vegas had 5 multimillion dollar homes. Strawberry pickers with $14,000 annual salary were living mortgage free in $750,000 homes. The mortgage rates were beginning to reset ad infinitum in summer of 2007. You know the rest of the story folks. This is a must-read book. And if you'd like to compliment the top-down view with a bottom-up perspective I recommend http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... The Big Short takes a neat perspective. Michael Lewis, instead of simply documenting the nuclear build-up, reveals Wall Street through the handful of contrarians that were trying to bet against the CDOs. Each of these handful of men have a very odd beginning and has some unusual attribute that led them, either by genius or character flaw, to see that this was the Mother-Of-All-Scams. In 2004, in fact, there wasn't even invented yet a vehicle to short the CDSs and CDOs. The concept of shorting a bond that was deemed un-defaultable was not even considered by Wall Street. All trading instruments (equities, bonds, T-bills) must have a shorting vehicle--that's what balances the price between 'puts' and 'calls,' and provides the institutional brakes on the price of a commodity. Without a shorting vehicle, in essence, CDOs had no down-side jeopardy. The book describes the numbers, the risk-split, and Value of Risk (VaR) that these bonds were given, and they were RIDICULOUS ! What's even more galling, when the big investment firms finally invented a CDO 'shorting' instrument, and sold them off in the billions, when the crash finally occurred, the firms couldn't cover the spread. What's that mean? It means that even though the shorts were sitting on a legal transaction, the firms could only pay a percentage, and they could only pay that percentage with government help. That means YOU were on the hook, not only to bailout Wall Street, but to pay off the smart folks who tried to apply the brakes to CDOs. The government bailout is another story entirely, and not covered in depth by The Big Short . But suffice it to say that's it's ugly and controversial enough that it forces me back to my free market position that I almost gave up in second paragraph, first sentence. The government dicked up with the bailouts, and didn't let these BIG SLEAZY, OILY Wall Street investment firms take a bigger hit. And now, 19 April 2010, Goldman Sachs is under SEC investigation for CDO manipulation, while Goldman announced last Thursday that it has allotted $5 point something billion dollars in employee bonuses. I was going to continue this rant and provide my investment advice/philosophy for the next 10-15 years, but I'll spare you. If there's enough people interested, I'll continue in the comments sections. Have a wonderful day. ...more Lawd. This book took my breath away. I remember what I was doing at several critical moments described in the book and to have been so unaware makes me breathless. I learned things and feel oddly vindicated and cheated at the same time. I knew dumb people were making money with my money: vindicated. I thought some people in the government might be smart enough to realize what happened and know what to do: cheated. Michael Lewis played two roles in writing this book about the subprime loan debacle Lawd. This book took my breath away. I remember what I was doing at several critical moments described in the book and to have been so unaware makes me breathless. I learned things and feel oddly vindicated and cheated at the same time. I knew dumb people were making money with my money: vindicated. I thought some people in the government might be smart enough to realize what happened and know what to do: cheated. Michael Lewis played two roles in writing this book about the subprime loan debacle. One the one hand he did the plebian job of untangling a very messy ball of knotted threads and on the other hand did a herculean job of elevating the discussion above the rock-slinging and shouting to which some angry losers are wont to resort. His characterizations of those involved on both sides of the trades are intimate enough to involve our emotions as well as our interest, but I think what really charmed me was the absurdity of some phrases that matched so perfectly the absurdities he was describing: Inside Morgan Stanley, the subprime lending boom created a who-put-chocolate-in-my-peanut-butter moment. (p.201) Osama and his team of bombers couldn't have done what our own Wall Street firms and their rating agencies and regulators did to the to the U.S. people and to the credibility of the U.S. government: It was as if bombs of differing sizes had been placed in virtually every major financial institution. The fuses had been lit and could not be extinguished. All that remained was to observe the speed of the spark, and the size of the explosions. (p.225) It seems ridiculous for me to urge you to read this book. Don't read it. You'll sleep better. But please don't go investing on Wall Street unless you want your nuts torn off. ...more This book propelled me back to a conversation from the fall of 2005. I was at my son\u2019s junior peewee football game on a warm autumn day talking to some other dads at halftime. The conversation was on how people were refinancing their homes at unheard of values and next to nothing interest rates. The group was a mix of men, some in real estate, a few newly minted mortgage brokers and some others of various professions and income levels. I recall, as the game resumed and the conversation wound dow This book propelled me back to a conversation from the fall of 2005. I was at my son\u2019s junior peewee football game on a warm autumn day talking to some other dads at halftime. The conversation was on how people were refinancing their homes at unheard of values and next to nothing interest rates. The group was a mix of men, some in real estate, a few newly minted mortgage brokers and some others of various professions and income levels. I recall, as the game resumed and the conversation wound down, speculating with one of the guys on what would happen in a couple \u2013 three years when these adjustable rates all reset. \u201cSomething\u2019s gotta give\u201d I recall saying and he agreed. Nevertheless, these mortgage brokers were raking in more money than the local pot farmers in our Sierra Nevada foothill town and everyone seemed to be getting in on the party. I figured the people on Wall Street fueling this must know what they were doing. Now, after reading The Big Short, I know that the vast majority really didn\u2019t and/or they didn\u2019t care. While I know of Michael Lewis\u2019 work, this was the first of his books that I have read and it certainly will not be my last. The book takes the most arcane financial concepts, terms and people and presents them in an easy to understand (for the most part) and extremely interesting and fast paced manner. This book shed tremendous light on the different people, players, banks, agencies and how the \u201cbetting system\u201d worked. I was struck by how the rating firms seemed to be the crux of the whole mess. The book is an excellent account of a crazy time that could have destroyed the US economy. Some would say the jury is still out and we have yet the feel the real ramifications of the bailouts and whole fiasco of 2008. We'll see. It\u2019s interesting that the movie was nominated for 5 academy awards on the same day (January 14, 2016) that Goldman Sachs agreed to a $5 billion fine for their part in this. It is also interesting that no one really seems to care and the Goldman Sachs brand appears to be as strong as ever. Oh yeah, that group of dads from that balmy October afternoon, some lost their homes, others just faded away. One, however, actually went to jail for making predatory loans or something of that nature, I never really knew exactly what the circumstances were but understand he will be released from Federal prison soon. Most of us just kept our heads down and managed through what I hope will be the worst financial crisis of our lifetimes. Only time will tell and The Big Short tells the back-story extraordinarily well. Related, yesterday a NYT opinion piece from Steve Eisman \u2013 a main subject in the book \u2013was published on his opinion of the biggest financial issue facing the country in early 2016: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/07/opi... My Star Rating Criteria: 1 star \u2013 Not for me & gave up reading 2 stars \u2013 Not for me & likely will not finish 3 stars \u2013 Solid book that I will finish at some point \u2013 probably later. 4 stars \u2013 Great book that I will finish sooner than later. 5 stars \u2013 Excellent book that I will modify my schedule to finish ASAP. ...more An extremely well-written account of the 2008 financial collapse. It explained complex ideas like subprime mortgage bonds and CDO's in a clear way, and almost read like a fast paced thriller. Essentially it seems that a bad ratings system and human greed created an economy that fostered the creation of a lot of bad debts, that eventually went bad, and caused a lot of big companies to go under (Lehman brothers, Bear Sterns), or require a bailout (Goldman Sachs, AIG). This is the real crime. These An extremely well-written account of the 2008 financial collapse. It explained complex ideas like subprime mortgage bonds and CDO's in a clear way, and almost read like a fast paced thriller. Essentially it seems that a bad ratings system and human greed created an economy that fostered the creation of a lot of bad debts, that eventually went bad, and caused a lot of big companies to go under (Lehman brothers, Bear Sterns), or require a bailout (Goldman Sachs, AIG). This is the real crime. These big companies were so focused on short term profits that they failed to see that long term what they were doing wasn't going to work. They should be appropriately punished for this, and instead many of them were saved by Uncle Sam. Would we have had a worse recession if Obama hadn't done that? Maybe. Maybe not. Lewis should write another book about that :) Let me see if I can get this right. The book explains that mortgages are sold by the banks that issue them, passing off the risk. Mortgages are aggregated into groups in mortgage bonds, which are then packaged into tranches, which are rated by agencies such as Moody's and S&P's. The math was complex, but apparently somehow tranches that consisted almost entirely of \"subprime\" (aka risky) mortgages were being given high A ratings. I guess the theory was that by spreading out the risk across lots of mortgage bonds it lowered the risk. Too bad this didn't work. Many of these mortgages were the variety that started 2 year fixed then went floating. They were largely taken out in 2005 - 2006, and as they hit 2 years the interest rates jumped as they went floating, and hoards of people defaulted. This explains why we teetered in 2007 and crashed in 2008. One of my favorite quotes to illustrate the madness: \"In Bakersfield, California, a Mexican strawberry picker with an income of $14,000 and no English was lent every penny he needed to buy a house for $724,000.\" And it wasn't just in Bakersfield. All over the country people were taking out loans that were too big for their britches, because the banks were encouraging it: \"The simple measure of sanity in housing prices, Zelman argued, was the ratio of median home price to income. Historically, in the United States, it ran around 3:1; by late 2004, it had risen nationally, to 4:1. \u201cAll these people were saying it was nearly as high in some other countries,\u201d says Zelman. \u201cBut the problem wasn\u2019t just that it was four to one. In Los Angeles it was ten to one and in Miami, eight-point-five to one.\" Economics is about incentives, and this book explained how they went very awry. But it was also a story about greed, and how even unintelligent people made a lot of money by riding the subprime mortgage train. The book followed several investors who noticed what was happening, but when they tried to tell people and test their \"crazy\" hypothesis that the financial world was going to collapse, they were mocked or ignored. So they just ended up shorting (betting against) the whole thing to make some money, which is what a good investor does. \"What are the odds that people will make smart decisions about money if they don\u2019t need to make smart decisions\u2014if they can get rich making dumb decisions?\" I think the lesson in the end is that if it looks to good to be true, it is. That, and we need smarter people working at the ratings agencies. ...more Achievement unlocked: I finally understand what the term \"shorting\" actually means. Lewis provides a thorough and interesting take on the financial crisis, and now I think I finally begin to understand what caused the world economy to tank. As Lewis notes, there was plenty of greed to go around, but it was the criminal irresponsibility of the bankers, the investors, the bond traders, that really created the opportunity for such large-scale corruption. I found this book particularly difficult bec Achievement unlocked: I finally understand what the term \"shorting\" actually means. Lewis provides a thorough and interesting take on the financial crisis, and now I think I finally begin to understand what caused the world economy to tank. As Lewis notes, there was plenty of greed to go around, but it was the criminal irresponsibility of the bankers, the investors, the bond traders, that really created the opportunity for such large-scale corruption. I found this book particularly difficult because of my own fears of debt. My personality tends towards \"control freak\" and I find the idea of being in debt utterly terrifying. I have lived in suburbia for over five years without owning a car, commuting everywhere by bicycle, partly because the amount of money involved in buying a car simply scares me. Just thinking about the national debt makes my heart race. As a kid, I remember hearing my parents talk about variable-rate mortgages and the way that banks were using them to trick credulous and innocent buyers, but it was hard to see what banks could get out of selling homes to people who couldn't afford them. Now I understand: the homes were secondary to the CDOs that could be constructed from the loans. I find the story of the shadow banking system playing with peoples' lives and hopes this way, tempting them into a lifestyle beyond their means, utterly disgusting. Sure, you could say people should know better, but that's not sufficient and it's not fair. As Lewis notes, the incentives for everyone involved, from the homeowners to the bonds salesmen to the regulators, were simply all wrong. And they're still all wrong. The one issue I'm left with is Lewis's take on his protagonists, a group of men who all \"shorted\" the sub-prime market industry. He treats them as heroes, as isolated voices of sanity in an increasingly insane world. But if they hadn't acted as buyers for sub-prime market insurance, there couldn't have been sellers, either. They ended up earning billions of dollars, and this type of finance is a zero-sum game. Their gains meant the losses of the sellers, and, ultimately, the American taxpayers. Sure, they didn't do anything strictly unethical, and sure, several of them apparently attempted to shut down the industry. But in the end, when they couldn't get anyone to listen, they settled for exploitation. And because they didn't turn around and, say, donate all that money to the ultimate victims of the sharks of Wall Street, I find it hard to see that choice as heroic. If you, like me, are a financial dunce but still want to understand what on earth caused our economy to fail, I heartily recommend The Big Short. It may leave you disgusted with every person even tangentially involved with Wall Street and the shadow banking system, but at least you'll have a clue about how they took down our economy, and how they're probably going to do it all over again. By the way: Dr. Michael Burry, the most intriguing and savvy character in the book, believes we're in for another bust. And I believe him. ...more In The Big Short, Michael Lewis outlines the causes of the housing crisis (which led to the larger Financial Crisis of 2007-2010), and tells the story of three small investment companies (basically four different investors) who saw it coming, bet against it, and made millions of dollars in the process. I really enjoyed reading about these individuals who foresaw the coming doom. Great human interest stories. I think one of the greatest take-away learnings for me is the explanation why nannies who In The Big Short, Michael Lewis outlines the causes of the housing crisis (which led to the larger Financial Crisis of 2007-2010), and tells the story of three small investment companies (basically four different investors) who saw it coming, bet against it, and made millions of dollars in the process. I really enjoyed reading about these individuals who foresaw the coming doom. Great human interest stories. I think one of the greatest take-away learnings for me is the explanation why nannies who lived in Queens (or really why anyone was liberally offered a loan he/she couldn't afford) were loaned enough money to buy five townhomes (that really happened). For quite some time, Wall Street has packaged corporate loans and sold them as low-risk bonds, low-risk because the corporations were so diversified. Some genius on Wall Street decided that packaging sub-prime loans and selling them off as bonds would be a great idea and assumed they were low-risk simply because they were coming from people all around the country rather than one specific geographical area. Because the big banks on Wall Street were selling off the risk of all the horrible loans they were making (and making oodles of money as they were selling the bonds), they wanted more and more raw material (loans) to sell as bonds. This explains why people were able to get loans they could never afford, which increased the demand for housing and increased housing prices so drastically. One line I remember particularly from the book is that many of these people were \"one broken refrigerator away from defaulting on their loan\". Once the \"teaser rates\" on these loans expired, about two years after the loans were made, people began defaulting on the loans en masse, and the housing crisis was born. What is absolutely astonishing is that so few people saw it coming (according to the author). Many of the risk models used on Wall Street didn't even have a way to value what would happen if housing prices went down. They all assumed housing prices would always go up and up and up. And the rating agencies that rated the bonds were absolutely clueless. It instills all kinds of confidence in the financial system (hope you're picking up the sarcasm). And probably the greatest lesson of the book is the power of incentives. When people on Wall Street can engulf their companies in flames and still walk away pocketing millions of dollars that year, there is definitely an incentive problem. Why behave responsibly with other people's money if you can get rich regardless of the outcome? Oh, and for my friends who would like to know, there is some strong language sprinkled quite liberally throughout the book, thanks to quotes from the investors in the book. ...more Happy thought for the day: At least I don't have to include a stint as an analyst for Moody's or Standard & Poor's to my list of professional shortcomings. This book provides an interesting and enjoyable glimpse into the world of the Wall Street financiers who helped to create the recent financial crisis and the savvy few who recognized the bubble before it had burst. As a piece of economic analysis Lewis's work has serious flaws. While he sees correctly that moral hazard was central to creating the crisis Lewis looks for the moral hazard in the wrong place: arguing, oddly, that the transformation of Wall Street firms from private partnerships into This book provides an interesting and enjoyable glimpse into the world of the Wall Street financiers who helped to create the recent financial crisis and the savvy few who recognized the bubble before it had burst. As a piece of economic analysis Lewis's work has serious flaws. While he sees correctly that moral hazard was central to creating the crisis Lewis looks for the moral hazard in the wrong place: arguing, oddly, that the transformation of Wall Street firms from private partnerships into public corporations was a key cause of the crisis, when even as private partnerships the Wall Street firms would have had an incentive to gamble with borrowed money, particularly if they could expect to be bailed out by the US government. He also lampoons the investment banks and ratings agencies for underestimating the degree of correlation across mortgages, but then claims absurdly that the true correlation was 1. And while he correctly identifies the true causes of the crisis--moral hazard, honest mistakes about the riskiness of the securities, fraud and loose monetary policy--he makes no effort to combine these various explanations into a coherent account or to rank their importance. These failings aside, though, \"The Big Short\" is entertaining and informative and well worth reading. This reviewer was especially taken with the stories of Michael Burry, the MD with Aspberger's who made himself a hedge fund manager and the fellows at Cornwall Capital whom most would have dismissed as idlers and fools when they started with $110,000 and a dream. Burry and the Cornwall guys became fabulously wealthy after their prescient bets against CDO's (as well as several other shrewd investments before that). ...more Michael Lewis turns the 2008 financial meltdown into a compelling narrative about two very smart, very abrasive skeptics who realized the juggernaut Wall Street had created was doomed to self-destruct, and worked out how to cash in big \u2014 the big short. Steve Eisman began his career as a corporate lawyer. Eisman was an outspoken curmudgeon. Stupidity bored him. Tact was not one of his gifts. When others spoke it looked like he was sampling rather than listening. It's difficult to imagine how he ma Michael Lewis turns the 2008 financial meltdown into a compelling narrative about two very smart, very abrasive skeptics who realized the juggernaut Wall Street had created was doomed to self-destruct, and worked out how to cash in big \u2014 the big short. Steve Eisman began his career as a corporate lawyer. Eisman was an outspoken curmudgeon. Stupidity bored him. Tact was not one of his gifts. When others spoke it looked like he was sampling rather than listening. It's difficult to imagine how he managed to sit through corporate meetings or deal with clients. At 31 he switched careers and became an equity analyst at Oppenheimer. In December 1991 he wet his feet in the murky waters of the subprime lending world. In September 1997 he issued a prescient and bluntly worded report on publicly traded subprime lenders. The verdict \u2014 Sell. By 2002 publicly traded subprime lenders were gone. That opened the door to Act II, Household Finance Corporation's reincarnation as an aggressive home equity lender. The company enticed borrowers with fraudulent low interest rates based on voodoo math. When the company was brought to court it received a fine. Nobody went to jail. HSBC, a British congomerate, acquired HFC in 2002. The only losers were the hapless borrowers. Eisman with his black and white mindset was outraged, and the experience would fuel his subsequent zeal. Eisman was determined to make his analytic gifts pay off. By 2004 he had started his own hedge fund, FrontPoint Partners. He knew he could profit from the debacle unfolding in slow-motion before his eyes. The key was timing. The second protagonist in Lewis' story was an obsessive financial blogger completing his medical internship. His name was Dr. Michael Burry, and he was attracting a lot of attention from savvy, heavy-hitting investors. He, too, realized he needed a career change. In 2000 he founded a hedge fund called Scion Capital. Like Eisman, he discerned the inherent flaw in the logic of the subprime mortgage bond market. Like Eisman, Burry was looking for a way to capitalize on that insight. Lewis follows these two men from 2000 to 2007 along with the rapidly mutating bond market. The narrative reads like a detective novel uncovering a trail of clues. The technique adds a measure of suspense to a story whose ending is already well known. The first clue was the rise of the originate-and-sell business model. Fees and commissions, not the mortgage bond itself, was the profit generator. Lenders needed increased volume not loan quality to feed profits. The same was true for the investment banks buying these bonds and collecting their own commissions. Default risk was the buyer's problem. Sy Jacobs, an analyst who trained at Salomon Brothers, summed up: \u201cAny business where you can sell a product and make money without having to worry how the product performs is going to attract sleazy people.\u201d In that sense, what followed was inevitable. Originators waived documentation, lured borrowers with artifically low teaser rates which would not reset for 2 years, and finally, no money down loans to feed the profit machine. The adjustment, of course, would occur 2 years into the loan when the floating and substantially higher market rate would kick in. Borrowers would be forced to either sell or refinance, an easy decision as long as real estate prices continued to escalate steeply. Who would buy such risky loans? The loans were bundled into huge pools where the risk could be disguised. As a further refinement, the pools were subdivided so that levels designated to absorb the earliest defaults were assigned higher rates of return to compensate for the increased risk. The underlying pitch, however, was: What were the odds that all (or a significant percent) of the borrowers in a given level would default? In the beginning Eisman and Burry were the only ones who reasoned the answer had to be 100%. Other clues emerged. By 2005 75% of subprime loans were made at adjustable teaser rates rather than fixed rates. Housing prices were rising precipitously. However, if that rise merely slowed, a cascade of defaults would be triggered. The median house price to income ratio had risen from the traditional 3:1 to 4:1, but in some markets, such as Los Angeles, the ratio had climbed to an unbelievable 10:1. Eisman and Burry detected yet another clue when they examined the methodology applied by ratings agencies such as Moody's and Standard and Poor. Their examiners looked at the characteristics of an entire pool, not the characteristics of the individual underlying bonds. One metric was the FICO score or credit rating of borrowers. The average FICO for a pool was used for the rating formula. Packagers quickly created pools with a wide range of scores; the result looked exactly like a package whose scores clustered closely around the mean. Moreover, all FICO's were not equal. A Mexican migrant worker who spoke no English and who had no assets but had never borrowed could have the same high FICO as an affluent borrower with plenty of assets and disposable income. In his inimitable way, Lewis summarizes: \u201cThe Mexican harvested strawberries; Wall Street harvested his FICO score.\u201d After learning all of this, Eisman and Burry realized that a triple A rated slice of the pool was no less risky that the worst slice of the worst pool. Act III of this drama introduced Greg Lippman, a bond salesman employed by Deutsche Bank. People described Lippman as over-the-top: Loud, self-aggrandizing, self-confident, brash. Such chutzpah... and such a long long list of contacts. Lippman was the mobilizer, the catalyst. The insurance giant AIG had figured out a way to enter the lucrative mortgage market, now morphed into the synthetic subprime mortgage bond-backed collateralized debt obligation. Too much of a mouthful? How about the CDO. Certain the bond pools were safe, AIG began to sell bond insurance, a conventional instrument for hedging. The insurance was not called insurance but rather a credit default swap. Lippman also began to look into the bond market and discovered the flaw. To him, the swaps were a bonanza. It was the vehicle he and his customers needed to short the bond market and he began talking to anyone who would listen. Anyone within AIG who suspected the ugly reality was quickly silenced by AIG Financial Products division head Joe Cassano. By the time AIG woke up it was like closing the barn door after the cattle have escaped. Lewis deftly reduces what are ultimately complex legal contracts and accounting strategies into terms understandable to the ordinary person. He strips away the ambiguities of Wall Street \u201cmarket speak.\u201d A collateralized debt obligation was actually the smoke and mirrors backed subprime bond. The bonds weren't even classed as mortgage bonds but as \u201casset-backed securities\u201d like car loans, student loans and credit card debt. Mobile homes were termed \u201cmanufactured housing,\u201d certainly a more stable sounding proposition for the unwary investor. Defaults were referred to as \u201cinvoluntary payments.\u201d The bottom or riskiest tranche wasn't called the basement; it was a mezzanine tranche. With this lexicon it is no wonder that bond buyers were befuddled and Wall Street started to believe its own lies. Lewis never underplays the role of luck or the degree of risk in his account. Eisman and Burry did the meticulous grueling analysis that led to the right answers, but the market does not always reward those who are right. They were placing their bets in 2005 but the collapse did not begin until 2007. In the interim they were obligated to pay out huge sums in premiums and collateral. Their backers became alarmed at the short-term negative returns. Paradoxically, bond prices kept rising even as the bad news started to surface. The bond prices did not begin to fall uninterrupted until June 2007. By 2008 those on the short end of the bet had yet one more worry. The entire financial system could collapse and their creditors could declare bankruptcy. If that happened theirs would be a pyrrhic victory. Those looking for a precise chronology of events or a nuanced quantitative narrative should look elsewhere. This is a riveting story about institutional greed and driven by colorful characters who say and do shocking things. The amounts of money involved are not millions but billions. Lewis draws from emails, letters, interviews and conversations and provides a context filled with striking metaphors and surprising drama. NOTE: The film based on Lewis' book is scheduled for release on December 23, 2015 ...more <+++>The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine</+++> is more than 5 stars. It deserves the highest rank for the clear explanation of how to answer this question: \u201cHow do you explain to an innocent citizen of the free world the importance of a credit default swap on a double-A tranche of a subprime-backed collateralized debt obligation?\u201d Not only will you be able to understand that arcane financial question, you will be riveted in the story Michael Lewis tells while you learn. Look, it is only 3 years to t <+++>The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine</+++> is more than 5 stars. It deserves the highest rank for the clear explanation of how to answer this question: \u201cHow do you explain to an innocent citizen of the free world the importance of a credit default swap on a double-A tranche of a subprime-backed collateralized debt obligation?\u201d Not only will you be able to understand that arcane financial question, you will be riveted in the story Michael Lewis tells while you learn. Look, it is only 3 years to the month that we were told the financial system of the world was about to collapse. This book shows you how we got to that point through the subprime mortgage loan process. Yes you will be exposed to terms like CDO, credit default swaps, mortgage bond tranches, etc. The writing is superb, it reads like a novel but the stories are true. Why should you read this? Because we still live with, and will for some time, the consequence of what this book chronicles\u2014absolute financial imbecility and corruption. This book will make a lot of the chicanery understandable and, even better, interesting. Some people saw the subprime mortgage crash coming. They placed bets against the subprime mortgage bonds. Some even went to the SEC to tell them how corrupt the system was getting but the guvmint wasn\u2019t interested. Basically, they were allowed to buy fire insurance on a house (i.e., a CDO) they did not own that was already on fire\u2014just not visibly. The Wall Street traders and firms were making tons of money from building these \u201chouses\u201d. There are really no heroes here. Most of the ones who foresaw the calamity made their bets and got rich. The taxpayers got screwed with the bill in the end. You need to see how it happened. There are some sympathetic characters here but no honorable men or women. \u201cWhat are the odds that people will make smart decisions about money if they don\u2019t need to make smart decisions\u2014if they can get rich making dumb decisions?\u201d At the end of the book, you find out that the few prescient people who foresaw the collapse and bet on it, made a ton of money. But the people who ran the banks and funds into bankruptcy or massive losses also made a ton of money. CEO\u2019s and traders left their investment companies with millions in golden parachutes or were bailed out by the government. \u201cThe people in a position to resolve the financial crisis were, of course, the very same people who failed to foresee it.\u201d Hank Paulson, Timmy Geithner, Ben Bernanke, CEO\u2019s from Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, the SEC, etc. All were culpable and some still have or gained more power. And the same idiots who failed to see the problem have written a new financial law (Dood-Frick) that will ensure we have another one of these\u2026because the bureaucrats and politicians are too stupid to see what they have done or to oversee the financial wizards on Wall Street. Pray that an energy cap and trade regime is never passed\u2026Wall Street will make more money than g0d if that is ever put in place. \u201cAfter an ordinary financial crisis, political leaders typically would turn to the people on Wall Street whom they trusted for advice and education. After this crisis there was no one on Wall Street they could trust.\u201d The current Occupy Wall Street crowd may be a collection of little Eichmann\u2019s, Che Guevara types and people who really have a gripe about the \u201csystem\u201d. The protest movement would not have any traction if it wasn\u2019t based on something real. Sadly this book provides part of the basis for a valid complaint. OWS\u2019s solution is to tear it all down. But no doubt, there must be changes. This book doesn\u2019t give you any solutions but it will start the process to make you informed enough to intelligently evaluate the discussion. I can\u2019t think of many books I would recommend above this one for a place on your permanent shelf and for an immediate read. ...more This is the best description so far of the inside story about the sub-prime mortgage crisis. Reading this book is like riding a time machine back a couple years, walking into the Wall Street offices and asking them, \"What in the world were you thinking?\" The story is told from the view point of several investors who were betting against the sub-prime mortgage industry. But there were so few other people who saw it their way that they kept second guessing their position because they couldn't unde This is the best description so far of the inside story about the sub-prime mortgage crisis. Reading this book is like riding a time machine back a couple years, walking into the Wall Street offices and asking them, \"What in the world were you thinking?\" The story is told from the view point of several investors who were betting against the sub-prime mortgage industry. But there were so few other people who saw it their way that they kept second guessing their position because they couldn't understand why so few other people agreed with them. It's apparent that the vast majority of \"experts\" were totally oblivious to impending doom. The book tells of one individual who visits numerous investment companies trying to get them to bet against the sub-prime mortgage industry, but almost nobody was willing to believe him. He even had a complete power point presentation explaining how buying credit default swaps (betting against sub-prime mortgages) was a virtual sure thing. Still, he convinced few people. The book also tells of the owner of an investment company that shorted the home mortgage business, and the investors in his company wanted their money back. They thought he was crazy to bet against house prices continuing to go up. He refused to give their money back because he was highly leveraged and would experience large losses if he gave their money back. So the investors sued him. In the midst of this rancor the housing market collapsed and suddenly their investments increased 70 fold. In other words, a million dollar investment was suddenly worth 70 million. His investors had gone from a position of asking for a big loss to a position of receiving a tremendous gain. After it was over, not one of his investors apologized, said thank you, or said \"You were right and I was wrong.\" The narrative of the book is structured to build suspense in the mind of the reader even though we all know what happens in the end. Michael Lewis did a good job writing this book. In the end he sums up by speculating why so many smart people were so stupid. It can be blamed on incentives and shedding of risks. ...more I think I might have a mini journalist's crush on Michael Lewis. First, that awesome article about Greek Monks pulverizing the financial system in Vanity Fair this month, now The Big Short. Lewis has an incredible ability to make unpalatable subjects such as credit default swaps fascinating. Anything related to economics is high on my \"not interested\" list. And I put the blame squarely on my high school economics teacher, a woman who insisted on pronouncing the world \"equilibrium,\" \"equileeeebri I think I might have a mini journalist's crush on Michael Lewis. First, that awesome article about Greek Monks pulverizing the financial system in Vanity Fair this month, now The Big Short. Lewis has an incredible ability to make unpalatable subjects such as credit default swaps fascinating. Anything related to economics is high on my \"not interested\" list. And I put the blame squarely on my high school economics teacher, a woman who insisted on pronouncing the world \"equilibrium,\" \"equileeeebrium.\" Being a highly judgmental teenager, at the time I decided that a woman with such inane pronunciation skills had nothing to offer and tuned out the entire class. (I also have a vague memory of her struggling with basic concepts, getting one result the first time she would explain something and a different result the next). To my detriment, this bias against the woman who mis-pronounced \"equilibrium\" meant that in college I wormed my way out of anything remotely related to economics and never took one class in that department. High level-math, no prob. Economics? I don't know about that one. I suppose that the deeper message here is that language is far more important to me to economic concepts--which is kind of unfortunate. Regardless, I devoured The Big Short. Lewis has amazing capacity to skewer characters and build momentum. I felt like knew poor Michael Burry, the techie finance geek in San Jose. I've seen and met that type a thousand times. Eisman, TK, the whole crew practically danced off the page and I wanted to know what would happen when their bets paid off. I also recently learned that Lewis wrote the Blind Side as well. I'd be interested in reading that. When I saw the movie I was expecting something cheesy, but I really liked how that family didn't just talk the talk about helping someone. They went for it full-on. ...more 50. The Big Short by Michael Lewis reader : Jesse Boggs published : 2010 format : 9 hr 29 min digital audiobook and 266 page hardcover acquired : borrowed both from my library read : listened to 87% May 5-17, read last 66 pages Aug 15-16 rating : 4 stars In a nutshell, this about the bastards who got rich on the 2008 US subprime mortgage crash. Lewis is a really good at this stuff, so we learn to really like all these guys, as unpleasant as some of them are, and we learn to appreciate all the effort and kn 50. The Big Short by Michael Lewis reader : Jesse Boggs published : 2010 format : 9 hr 29 min digital audiobook and 266 page hardcover acquired : borrowed both from my library read : listened to 87% May 5-17, read last 66 pages Aug 15-16 rating : 4 stars In a nutshell, this about the bastards who got rich on the 2008 US subprime mortgage crash. Lewis is a really good at this stuff, so we learn to really like all these guys, as unpleasant as some of them are, and we learn to appreciate all the effort and knowledge they used to figure this market out. They made a killing, but as the collapse happened and was so big, threatening the entire banking system, one of their biggest fears was where to find a safe way to cash in. Lewis provides an insightful analysis of what a happened in 2008, what the root causes were, how everyone missed it, and what the consequences were for the bankers. Lewis makes it fun, but it's sad. Every key player got rich, even the ones who misread everything and lost billions for their companies. They all walked away with millions, leaving their companies in disastrous shape, the US tax payer stuck with the bill, and, of course, all those given impossible loans without their homes. I can't say it's the best book on the subject, as it's the only one I've read, but it's entertaining and worth a read. ...more I never did really come to like anyone in this book. Why? Because every person written about here was in essense a dirtball. The Big Short tells the story of the financial collapse of 2007-08, specifically the spectacular implosion of the subprime mortgage lending market. On one side, you have the completely repellent folks dealing in the packaging and selling of subprime mortgages in a number of various forms. Subprime mortgages are loans made to people with very little chance of paying them bac I never did really come to like anyone in this book. Why? Because every person written about here was in essense a dirtball. The Big Short tells the story of the financial collapse of 2007-08, specifically the spectacular implosion of the subprime mortgage lending market. On one side, you have the completely repellent folks dealing in the packaging and selling of subprime mortgages in a number of various forms. Subprime mortgages are loans made to people with very little chance of paying them back. The loans were pieces of shit from the start, with low \"teaser\" interest rates at the beginning of the loan that readjusted to ridiculously high interest rates in a couple years. They were more or less designed to do this in order to force the homeowner, who suddenly realized they couldn't afford their mortgage at such a high rate, to refinance. In many ways, they were bait-and-switch deals, given to people like a Las Veags stripper who had not one, but FIVE subprime loans on houses, or a Bakersfield immigrant strawberry picker who made $14,000 a year, but was allowed to take on a home loan of $750,000. In the middle, and only vaguely mentioned in the book, but important nonetheless, are those homeowners who were given these shit loans. Yes, I'm sure many of them were snookered and lied to, but a great many of them had to know they would never be able to pay back their loans. Ever. Especially the ones who couldn't even document a source of income and were still given a loan. The idiocy went both ways here. And then on the other side, you've got a handful of guys who saw this oncoming mess for what it was. They figured out what they were looking at: hundreds of thousands (maybe millions?) of loans that were certain to default, wrapped up together in ridiculous, fabricated \"bonds\" - essentially pieces of paper with no real worth or value except what Wall Street decided they should be worth, extremely high-risk investments that were rated as low-risk by the two rating agencies who completely stepped on their dicks (and were snookered as well, but they still stepped on their dicks). These subprime timebombs were just waiting for the first round of interest rate resets to go off, and these guys knew what was coming. So what did they do? They placed their bets against the economy and waited for the bomb to go off. While Wall Street shit the bed in late 2007 through 2008, these guys became insanely rich. By buying what essentially amounted to insurance policies against these bad loans, they got paid because folks were losing their homes and defaulting on their loans. They got rich while the rest of the ships, basically a who's-who of Wall Street, sank around them. Several were bailed out by the federal govt. (TARP anyone?), an even more perverse result of a ridiculous clusterfuck. Many of the men who oversaw this collapse, CEOs of places like Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, the shitheads responsible for creating the fucking made-up market for these things in the first place, ended up getting taxpayer money to save themsleves and were even asked to help fix the problem. I don't really blame the guys who shorted this mess, they were playing within the rules of a bullshit game, but I can't say I like them either. Instead of trying to alert someone, anyone to the impending disaster, they instead figured they would get rich off it. Some of them tried, but not very hard. Some of them even feared the problem would be fixed or averted before their gamble paid off. Yes, they would have lost all their money if that happened, but you know what? Fuck them and their money and their gamble. OK, you were right. You got filthy stinking rich because of it. Now go fuck yourselves, please. Despite my bitching, this book gets 4 stars because Michael Lewis can flat tell a damn story. Yes, much of this book is about very dry subjects that I only partially grasped at first, but I got a much clearer understanding of because of Lewis's undeniable talent to not only report a story, but to write a narrative that is completely absorbing. If you have ever wondered just what happened three years ago, and why we're still struggling through this mess of an economy, start with this book. The subprime collapse was not the only issue that caused our national and global financial woes, but it's probably 90% of it. ...more Reread 1. I first read The Big Short in 2012, fresh from Business School. It's important to note that I went to a different sort of school - a residential campus that leaned (sometimes alarmingly) to the left, and took great pains to instil in its students an ethical way of going about life. And coming from there, I read The Big Short as a vindication of what my professors had been trying to teach me. I enjoyed it, but I also knew and understood that somewhere in the story was a sceptre of cynic Reread 1. I first read The Big Short in 2012, fresh from Business School. It's important to note that I went to a different sort of school - a residential campus that leaned (sometimes alarmingly) to the left, and took great pains to instil in its students an ethical way of going about life. And coming from there, I read The Big Short as a vindication of what my professors had been trying to teach me. I enjoyed it, but I also knew and understood that somewhere in the story was a sceptre of cynicism, a silent acceptance of the selfish approach that Wall Street seems to embody. This is telling, as even in the foreword, Michael Lewis laments that though written from a different viewpoint, his first book, Liar's Poker, was read by college students as a how-to guide rather than as a warning notice. When I read it then, I was an idealist, and it fit right into my scheme of ideas. But today, several years later, The Big Short makes a lot more sense to me in its convoluted characters and flawed heroes - Wall Street is responding to incentives. Sure, its incentives are obscene and vulgar, but they are only responding to the societal worship of money, and money as a source of power. Just that their scale was much bigger than normal people's, and what they were playing with could disrupt the world financial system, which it did. The prose is brilliant. I've been a fan of Michael Lewis for some time and read almost everything he writes. And even by his own admission, The Big Short is not a subject that feeds his strengths. But he manages, and how. Lewis sparkles in character studies, that is his home ground, and the portraits that he paints of Steve Eisman and Michael Burry, among others, are by far the most enjoyable elements. The villains are more or less invisible, with exceptions like Wing Chau, but the heroes we know; them we understand. An important part of the book is the finale, when everything comes to a close and Lewis wraps it all up with a few telling observations. None of the perpetrators of this massive fraud among the American people (and in many ways, on the world's people) really paid for it. Almost all of them moved on with huge bonuses and even better jobs, as if nothing had happened in those years. I looked up several of them on LinkedIn. None of their careers has seen even a hurdle. And yet we know how hard it was for the people who Wall Street conned into their great game. Tens of thousands lost their houses, their life savings, the funds they set apart for their children's education. They paid. The American taxpayer paid. The ones who were responsible never did. This, ultimately is the soul of Michael Lewis' book. A group of smart, brave people can at times screw a corrupt system, and come out on top. But in the long run, remember, it's a casino. The house is rigged in its own favour. The house always wins. ...more If you are convinced that Wall Street caused the 2007-2010 financial crisis, Michael Lewis\u2019s book will reinforce your conviction. If you are sure that Wall Street is rigged against the average person, this book will support your conclusions. If you are positive that Wall Street functions only for the benefit of those in Big Finance, with little concern about the lives and fortunes of the middle class, this book will reinforce your sense of outrage. And if you have been appalled by the pain the a If you are convinced that Wall Street caused the 2007-2010 financial crisis, Michael Lewis\u2019s book will reinforce your conviction. If you are sure that Wall Street is rigged against the average person, this book will support your conclusions. If you are positive that Wall Street functions only for the benefit of those in Big Finance, with little concern about the lives and fortunes of the middle class, this book will reinforce your sense of outrage. And if you have been appalled by the pain the average person experienced as a result of this crisis, this book will do nothing to make you less angry. Clarifying such concepts as credit default swap and collateralized debt obligation (CDO), Lewis brings to life those Wall Street figures involved in creating the conditions for the huge financial losses incurred during the market crash and those who saw the crisis coming, predicted it, bet against it, and reaped financial windfalls as a result. The author is good at clarifying some of the concepts involved, although I must confess that to more perfectly comprehend the details I discussed the book and the events with an attorney friend who is more conversant with the market than I am. Lewis writes well, often with a wry sense of humor and frequently in earthy language. He gets his points across. I came away having a better sense of all that occurred and a premonition that such a crisis will almost certainly happen again. Not a pleasant awareness. A movie has been made of this book, but I have not seen it. Those I know who have both seen the film and read the book recommend doing both, seeing the movie for a sense of the emotion involved and reading the book to best understand the underlying financial issues. ...more This non-fiction account of the players and events behind the financial crisis of 2008, specifically banks spinning out derivatives whose risk they themselves didn't understand, was for me scarier than any horror movie. Lewis explains how credit default swaps and synthetic options got so far out of control as people bet on an ever-rising housing market that the American financial system would have self-destructed but for the intervention of the government. Having lived through the crisis, I well This non-fiction account of the players and events behind the financial crisis of 2008, specifically banks spinning out derivatives whose risk they themselves didn't understand, was for me scarier than any horror movie. Lewis explains how credit default swaps and synthetic options got so far out of control as people bet on an ever-rising housing market that the American financial system would have self-destructed but for the intervention of the government. Having lived through the crisis, I well remember the feeling of precariousness as the nanosecond trust on which financial systems operates evaporated. Lewis explains how and why it happened. The book should be read (or the movie seen) by everyone. ...more Extremely readable and clear -- gripping without being more than it pretends to be (except for the overly dramatic subtitle). It's not the be all end all explanation of \"what happened\", but by looking through the eyes of outsiders, Lewis gives a lot of insight into what happened on the inside, without excessive pontification or moralizing. I have great respect for the clarity and diligence that Michael Lewis brings to shed new light on the second greatest financial disaster in modern American history. He knows where to go to find the bones buried by people both who profited immensely from and were destroyed on Wall Street by the unsurpassed greed of the sub-prime mortgage fiasco. I was intrigued by the creation of high-risk debt obligations consisting of packages of sub-prime mortages with teaser rates which blossomed so predictab I have great respect for the clarity and diligence that Michael Lewis brings to shed new light on the second greatest financial disaster in modern American history. He knows where to go to find the bones buried by people both who profited immensely from and were destroyed on Wall Street by the unsurpassed greed of the sub-prime mortgage fiasco. I was intrigued by the creation of high-risk debt obligations consisting of packages of sub-prime mortages with teaser rates which blossomed so predictably after two years consistently into default as much higher interest rates took effect. Further, I was astounded that after so much sub-prime business was packaged and sold at bond desks on Wall Street, totally misrated in their risk by the ratings agencies, that another sub-prime debt derivative -- the collateralized debt obligation (CDO) -- was invented to take its place because all the worst mortgage debt had already been sold. How is that so many low-income, no-doc applications could be approved so that even migrant workers earning $14K could buy $750,000 condos? How did the ratings agencies so grossly miscontrue the risk of these financial instruments? How is it that CEOs of major Wall Street firms couldn't even explain CDOs on conference calls? How is it any wonder that a toothless and hugely understaffed SEC ever permitted them to be sold? How could the customer be so overlooked and abused that, once the two-year teaster rates passed, those sub-prime loans bought in 2005-06 created a total melt-down of our economy in 2008? Why did the US so selectively back-stop this outright fraud? How is that that so few people have been punished for this calamity? Imagine it: Wall Street was packaging the worst possible mortgage risks and then selling them short -- betting with over-leverage in some cases of 40/1 that they would default and profiting hugely from it. I hear a great deal about how important it is to let the \"Invisible Hand of the Market\" be enabled to work freely in the financial markets. This is the laissez-faire mantra of the Chicago School and Alan Greenspan. But clearly the Invisible Hand of the Market is almost universally attached to a billionaire or big bank and that hand is perpetually trying to find new ways to pick our wallets. So the big banks can over-leverage to make incredible risks and never lose because they are too big to fail and will be back-stopped, however, selectively by American tax dollars. With all the fervant ecstacy over Ayn Rand by the 1% big money crowd, it is worth noting that, when greed carries away financial corporations incented to over-step, only financial regulation and honest government has any possibility of reigning in their constant, arrogant hubris and the deep abiding suffering that it causes. Unfortunately, in 2006-08 we had neither adequate regulation nor honest government. The other 99% is extremely weary of suffering en masse for the profilic greed of the 1%. The deconstruction of Glass-Steagall was instrumental in creating this global, financial chaos. The best interests of customers have been hopelessly abandoned by those who should have a \"fiduciary responsibility\" to protect their customers. Bizarro financial products like CDOs, which no one understood, should never, ever in a million years have even made it into the marketplace. Our nation has suffered financially for four years at this writing as a result while unelected fiscal terrorists in the lobbying industry corrupt our eagerly corruptible government to create a \"worst ever\" Congress while our noble, ethical children are pepper-sprayed and beaten for passively resisting this blatant corruption and even now well-funded lobbyists conspire to smear their heroic ideals. If we don't clearly understand the lessons of this financial fiasco and reform the sources of their root causes, then we shall repeat the consequences of this brutal ignorance endlessly to our infinite shame. Somehow powerful forces at play seek \"smaller government\" and mindlessly less regulation: but how can this approach be justified given the unmitigated disaster created by the Bush administration's public policy of deregulation? I am so amused and even embarrassed for those who comically race to brand others as \"socialists\" when: 1) they are usually politicians paid by or seeking to be paid a salary by the State and 2) corporate socialism is so pervasive as the Invisible Hand of the Market (a la Citizens United) works its heady wonders. If you ever had any doubts that Wall Street is a completely and entirely rigged game, then read this excellent piece of journalism in \"The Big Short.\" ...more Every intelligent person in America needs to read this book. Actually, it should be required reading. By telling the story of the 2008 financial meltdown through the stories of a handful of people, Lewis manages to clarify and explain exactly what happened, how it happened, and why it happened (that would be unbridled greed of Wall Street banks and hedge funds. Duh.) The most enlightening revelation to me is Lewis's take on the rating agencies (Standard & Poor's and Moody's), which he charact Every intelligent person in America needs to read this book. Actually, it should be required reading. By telling the story of the 2008 financial meltdown through the stories of a handful of people, Lewis manages to clarify and explain exactly what happened, how it happened, and why it happened (that would be unbridled greed of Wall Street banks and hedge funds. Duh.) The most enlightening revelation to me is Lewis's take on the rating agencies (Standard & Poor's and Moody's), which he characterizes as the whores of Wall Street's big investment banks. The bond trading deparments at the Wall Street banks created financial instruments that were deliberately so complicated that almost nobody could understand them, and that includes the CEOs of the biggest players. If you can't understand exactly what the mortgage-backed bonds are, you don't understand what a piece of crap they are. And the rating agencies deemed them triple-A, so of course you would think they were smart investments. Only a handful of people actually bothered to learn exactly what the bonds based on subprime mortgages really represented, and by betting against them, these people made a killing by the collapse of the financial market. Ordinarily, they would be the villains of the story, but the fact that they are the only people who understood the fraud being perpetrated by the banks, and who at least had the decency to be outraged, makes you kind of root for them. Lewis not only tells the story well, he tells it wryly and with plenty of humor, dark and otherwise. Kudos to Michael Lewis. Well done. ...more This was stunningly good. I have read a variety of articles and a couple of books about the financial crisis, trying to understand its roots. I'd understand everything while I read it, but it would fall out of my head 10 minutes later. After reading The Big Short, the information has finally stuck. Partly it was because this book started way back at the beginning, many years before the crash. It mentioned a crisis that happened in the city where I live as a key turning point in one character's un This was stunningly good. I have read a variety of articles and a couple of books about the financial crisis, trying to understand its roots. I'd understand everything while I read it, but it would fall out of my head 10 minutes later. After reading The Big Short, the information has finally stuck. Partly it was because this book started way back at the beginning, many years before the crash. It mentioned a crisis that happened in the city where I live as a key turning point in one character's understanding of the sub-prime mortgage bubble, which also helped me to get some context on the problem. And it confirmed my fundamental confusion about how such a calamity could have arisen from transactions that feel so hollow and unreal and untethered to any actual good being produced. Because that is essentially what happened: people were just betting on situations that they had no stake in, other than that they were betting on them. They didn't own the mortgages, they weren't the homeowners, they were just betting on whether those mortgages would get paid off, without any meaningful understanding of the actual properties and financial health of the homeowners. So utterly divorced from reality. And never stopping to think about what they were actually betting on and if maybe it wasn't such a good idea. ...more<---C>Michael   Lewis</---C>", "Title": "The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine"},
