{"Comments": "I\u2019m really starting to warm to <---C>Matthew Shardlake</---C>. He\u2019s a great character, and a perfect investigator; he is compassionate and clever; he is brave and realistic in his approach to his ginormous tasks. He is really aware of himself and those around him. He\u2019s a hunchback; he\u2019s an outcast and a figure for ridicule. But, he doesn\u2019t let it get the best of him. Sometimes his rage at the narrow minded injustice he is subjected to is ready to spill over, though he controls it. He uses his scholar like mi I\u2019m really starting to warm to Matthew Shardlake. He\u2019s a great character, and a perfect investigator; he is compassionate and clever; he is brave and realistic in his approach to his ginormous tasks. He is really aware of himself and those around him. He\u2019s a hunchback; he\u2019s an outcast and a figure for ridicule. But, he doesn\u2019t let it get the best of him. Sometimes his rage at the narrow minded injustice he is subjected to is ready to spill over, though he controls it. He uses his scholar like mind to rise above his enemies.<---F> However, he\u2019s in physical danger too</---F>. Cromwell has granted him an assistant for this mission; he needs him too because this is dangerous work. Jack Barrak is young, rough and tough. He serves as a body guard to Shardlake\u2019s cultivated mind. \"I saw myself as he must have, a hey-faced hunchback lawyer in black robe and cap, a pencase and dagger at my belt instead of a sword. Despite their differences, the two achieve wonders together. I love the intertwining of cases; one is no longer enough for Shardlake. Whist preparing a defence for a girl accused of murdering her young cousin, Shardlake receives an ominous summon from his former benefactor: Thomas Cromwell. Cromwell also has an investigation for him, a more important one. He is tasked with finding the deadly weapon known as Greek fire. Cromwell believes the recovery of such a dark weapon will regain him the favour of Henry VIII after the disastrous Cleaves marriage. Shardlake has no choice but to take on the assignment as he dare not anger the ruthless Lord Chancellor. So, poor Shardlake is thrown into the risky world of Tudor politics. I really pity him. Dark fire or Greek fire,<---M> as it is most commonly known</---M>, can burn through anything and even remains ablaze on water. It\u2019s kind of like Wildfire form A Clash of Kings. If Henry VIII had a supply of it, his power would grow on both land and sea. It\u2019s no wonder Cromwell wants to give it to his King. The only problem is the people who were tasked with reproducing it have been murdered, their supply stolen, and the culprits behind it are completely unknown. Shardlake has a very cold trail to follow, one that eventually leads him to grimy places. Handling this is almost too much for him, I think the only reason he manages any form of success is because he knows what would await him should he fail. Cromwell has no mercy. This threat really drives the story to its completion. -Cromwell from The Tudors It\u2019s a miracle Shardlake even has time to sleep in the novel. With two massive investigations on his mind, and exactly nine days to solve them both, he has little time to think beyond there resolution. The <+++>Dark Fire</+++> case has larger consequences, but the murder investigation is no easier to solve and it touches Shardlake\u2019s humanity deeper than Cromwell\u2019s plight. He\u2019s torn between his work and his humanity. His compassion is gripped by the girl who refuses to say a word to the crime she witnessed. Getting her to talk is no easy task, but Shardlake knows that only she has the answers. The intertwining of two separate cases works extraordinarily well. When there is a lull in the investigation of one (<---B>not that there were many</---B>) the other picks up. This results in a plot that rarely slowed down, and a book that is a fantastic instalment in the series. Tudor England was brought to life in these pages. I hope each of Shardlake\u2019s investigations are as good as the last. Matthew Shardlake Series 1. Dissolution- A suspense filled four stars. 2. <+++>Dark Fire</+++>- A dark 3.5 stars ...more Another case for Matthew Shardlake..when an ageing and increasingly gout- ridden Henry VIII is between Anne of Cleeves and Katherine Howard, wives 4 and 5, Thomas Cromwell once more calls upon Shardlake to solve a case. In paranoid times, England has no allies in Europe; where once reformist fervour swept the nation, and not so long ago, the tides have turned and against Lord Cromwell. Political chaos is the order of the day where intrigue and plots abound and where no-one can be trusted. CJ Sanso Another case for Matthew Shardlake..when an ageing and increasingly gout- ridden Henry VIII is between Anne of Cleeves and Katherine Howard, wives 4 and 5, Thomas Cromwell once more calls upon Shardlake to solve a case. In paranoid times, England has no allies in Europe; where once reformist fervour swept the nation, and not so long ago, the tides have turned and against Lord Cromwell. Political chaos is the order of the day where intrigue and plots abound and where no-one can be trusted. CJ Sansom really knows how to conjure up the sights, sounds and smells of the largely lawless, sewage-saturated streets of Tudor London. The bear-baiting, the violence, the boiled head on spikes on London Bridge....it's all there for our delectation and delight. In this story, I particularly liked the developing relationship between Shardlake and Barak, his and Cromwell's assistant: namely the way he calls everyone he doesn't like an 'arsehole'!And once again, the discordant twang of heart strings snapping for poor Matthew! Excellent read. Next! ...more Continual suspense Matthew Shardlake has put the nerve-wracking episode of his investigations at Scarnsea Monastery behind him and is living the relatively quiet life of a London lawyer of the Tudor era. Suddenly, his peace is shattered. He is asked to defend a young lady who is accused of murdering her cousin, but refuses to speak to anyone, even Shardlake. A difficult task, and even more stressful because failing to plea when brought to court in those days resulted in a slow and agonising death Continual suspense Matthew Shardlake has put the nerve-wracking episode of his investigations at Scarnsea Monastery behind him and is living the relatively quiet life of a London lawyer of the Tudor era. Suddenly, his peace is shattered. He is asked to defend a young lady who is accused of murdering her cousin, but refuses to speak to anyone, even Shardlake. A difficult task, and even more stressful because failing to plea when brought to court in those days resulted in a slow and agonising death by \u201cpressing.\u201d Almost simultaneously, Shardlake is called to the chambers of Lord Cromwell, who commissions him to seek one of the earliest weapons of mass destruction, Greek fire. It is a very dangerous assignment, made even more so because it is so difficult to work out whom he can trust. Wisely, he decides to trust no-one. There is suspense throughout this book, and more than a few close scrapes. I really enjoyed it. ...more Another excellent read in this fantastic series. I thought I was getting a bit bored with historical fiction but there was nothing boring about Dark Fire . Matthew Shardlake is such an interesting main character and he manages to gain a new assistant in this book who suits him admirably. Not one but two mysteries running parallel kept the pace of the story going and I found the historical detail to be just right - not too little or too much. Now to find the time to read the next one. I do love a Another excellent read in this fantastic series. I thought I was getting a bit bored with historical fiction but there was nothing boring about Dark Fire . Matthew Shardlake is such an interesting main character and he manages to gain a new assistant in this book who suits him admirably. Not one but two mysteries running parallel kept the pace of the story going and I found the historical detail to be just right - not too little or too much. Now to find the time to read the next one. I do love a good series:) ...more I jo\u0161 jedan odli\u010dan Sansomov roman! Moji su omiljeni \u017eanrovi povijesni i trileri, a ovaj autor ih genijalno spaja. Radnja se doga\u0111a u Engeskoj u doba Henrika VIII kada Mathew Shardlake, odvjetnik, rje\u0161ava interesantne slu\u010dajeve kroz koje, uz u\u017eivanje u napetoj radnji, u\u017eivamo i u temeljitim opisima na\u010dina \u017eivota, obi\u010daja, politike i nekih povijesnih li\u010dnosti spomenutog razdoblja. S u\u017eitkom kre\u0107em na sljede\u0107i roman ovog autora! (view spoiler) [ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler) ] Pretty reasonable Tudor detective thriller; better than the first in the series in my opinion. Sansom is a historian and lawyer who has obviously combined his two passions. This one is set in the summer of 1540 at the time of the fall of Cromwell. Shardlake, the hero/detective is an honest lawyer (there's an oxymoron if ever there was one!)and is a likeable character. There is none of the mean moodiness and complex personal life here; Shardlake is a 40 year old hunchback who is unmarried. He doe Pretty reasonable Tudor detective thriller; better than the first in the series in my opinion. Sansom is a historian and lawyer who has obviously combined his two passions. This one is set in the summer of 1540 at the time of the fall of Cromwell. Shardlake, the hero/detective is an honest lawyer (there's an oxymoron if ever there was one!)and is a likeable character. There is none of the mean moodiness and complex personal life here; Shardlake is a 40 year old hunchback who is unmarried. He does however, like Morse, fall for completely inappropriate women; an endearing trait. In this book he receives a commission from Cromwell to investigate Greek Fire and find what is effectively a Tudor version of a flamethrower. The plot twists and revolves and there are plenty of suspects; Shardlake gains a new assistant (every decent detective should have one that complements their own gifts) who is streetwise, muscular and gets things done. If you like decent detective novels this one fits the bill with the added bonus of a bit of Tudor history and some excellent descriptive passages. ...more I loved this sequel even more than the first book in the series! The author's credentials as a lawyer with a PhD in history are evident in the complex, finely written story that he creates around Tudor era lawyer, Matthew Shardlake. There is really no part of this book that I can disparage. The characters are multifaceted and realistic. I adore Matthew - he is clever and righteous but also insecure and modest. In this novel he is paired up perfectly with Jack Barak, who is young, courageous, and I loved this sequel even more than the first book in the series! The author's credentials as a lawyer with a PhD in history are evident in the complex, finely written story that he creates around Tudor era lawyer, Matthew Shardlake. There is really no part of this book that I can disparage. The characters are multifaceted and realistic. I adore Matthew - he is clever and righteous but also insecure and modest. In this novel he is paired up perfectly with Jack Barak, who is young, courageous, and loyal. The two of them make a wonderful team, and Matthew is able to get over the loss of his assistant Mark. Sansom does a marvelous job of creating the sights, scents, attitudes, and lifestyles of Tudor England without ever making the reader feel that they are trudging through an information dump. Making use of what may be the best use of first person narrative I have read, he places the reader inside Matthew's thoughts and circumstances. How disappointed I was to glance up from the page and be reminded that I was not truly traipsing through 16th century London. Once again the mysteries - and there are a few in this installment - were secondary to the characters and setting in my mind. That does not mean that they were any less expertly done. Shardlake is immersed in two major cases: one that he accepts because he believes in the accused's innocence when nobody else does and the other because Cromwell leaves him no choice. Both storylines keep the reader on the edge of their seat until the very end, and little is as it originally appears. My only disappointment was that when I finished this book, I realized that the next Shardlake episode, Sovereign, was not on my shelf. No worries. It is now on its way to my door! ...more 3.5 stars. Solid sequel to the excellent Dissolution by C. J. Sansom. Not as enjoyable as the first book which is probably because having visited the world of Matthew Shardlake before, it wasn't quite as fresh or new as it was before. In addition, the mysteries involved in this installment were less compelling. That said, it was still a very good read and I will certainly be reading the next book in the series. Recommend. I enjoyed reading this, and I'll continue with the series. Sansom is a good writer and his characterization is excellent. I like Shardlake and his new sidekick Barak very much. The setting felt authentic and the author manages to include a lot of historical details without disrupting the narrative. But despite these excellent qualities I'm knocking it down to 3 stars because of a few serious flaws. Both of the mysteries in this book are weak. The first involves a girl accused of murder, and the r I enjoyed reading this, and I'll continue with the series. Sansom is a good writer and his characterization is excellent. I like Shardlake and his new sidekick Barak very much. The setting felt authentic and the author manages to include a lot of historical details without disrupting the narrative. But despite these excellent qualities I'm knocking it down to 3 stars because of a few serious flaws. Both of the mysteries in this book are weak. The first involves a girl accused of murder, and the reader will discern the true story long before Shardlake catches on. The second centers on a search for the formula for the legendary Greek Fire, which Lord Cromwell wishes to present to the king in order to retain royal favor in the wake of the king's disastrous marriage to Anne of Cleves. Since anyone reading this book will already know that the king divorces Anne and marries Catherine Howard, that Cromwell falls and Norfolk rises, and that Henry VIII did not employ Greek fire in his navy, there isn't much suspense here. The fight scenes and chase scenes are badly written. I'd guess that sword and dagger combat wasn't one of the topics Sansom extensively researched. The final scene of violence is particularly ludicrous. In the notes at the end of the book (which I appreciate in historical fiction) the author admits to inventing one of the customs described in his story. It's nice of him to point this out, but I am perplexed by an author who would go to such great pains over the accuracy of historical details and then confuse his readers by throwing in an imaginary element, one that isn't even critical to his plot. Disappointing. ...more This is the second Shardlake novel, following on from Dissolution. Shardlake finds himself embroiled in a complicated case, when a young girl called Elizabeth Wentworth is arrested for murder. Her family, apart from her Uncle Joseph, all believe her guilty of the crime \u2013 killing her cousin Ralph, the only son of her Uncle Edwin, whose London house she was living in. However, Elizabeth refuses to plead, which means she faces the Press (which was as bad as it sounds) and has been thrown into the H This is the second Shardlake novel, following on from Dissolution. Shardlake finds himself embroiled in a complicated case, when a young girl called Elizabeth Wentworth is arrested for murder. Her family, apart from her Uncle Joseph, all believe her guilty of the crime \u2013 killing her cousin Ralph, the only son of her Uncle Edwin, whose London house she was living in. However, Elizabeth refuses to plead, which means she faces the Press (which was as bad as it sounds) and has been thrown into the Hole (as unpleasant as it sounds) in Newgate. Shardlake is convinced of her innocence, but seems destined to fail in his endeavour to save her until, suddenly, he is offered a reprieve. Two weeks to investigate, as long as he carries out a little job for Cromwell... An ancient weapon, little more than a myth, Greek Fire, has been found in a former monastery. The men who have this strange substance, capable of burning a ship in moments, want money to release the weapon to Cromwell. He sends Shardlake to speak to them and make arrangements, but when he arrives the would be conspirators have been murdered. Cromwell has promised King Henry an exhibition of Greek Fire in two weeks time, which leaves Shardlake two investigations to solve in only a few days. Along with Jack Barak, Cromwell\u2019s loyal supporter, the two men embark on a race around London to find Greek Fire and help prove Elizabeth Wentworth\u2019s innocence. London in 1540 is awash with rumours about King Henry; said to be about to put aside Anne of Cleves \u2013 a disastrous marriage he blames solely on Cromwell \u2013 and to marry the young Catherine Howard. With the Duke of Norfolk, Cromwell\u2019s enemy, possibly about to gain the King\u2019s ear, Cromwell cannot afford to fail \u2013 and neither can Shardlake. Unwillingly thrust again into politics and danger, Shardlake does his best, while his clients desert him, he is attacked, threatened and seems to be making enemies in high places. Jack Barak is a much more suitable sidekick than the young Mark Poer, who accompanied Shardlake in Dissolution. He adds swagger and danger to the storyline; brave, loyal and always willing to take a risk. However, in this novel, even Shardlake\u2019s usually calm demeanour is thrown slightly, when he has to question the beautiful widow, Lady Honor. With Shardlake suffering slights because of his hunchback, his friend the physician Guy (first seen in Dissolution) gaped at because of his dark skin and Jack Barak threatened due to his Jewish heritage, we see Tudor London not only through the politics of power, but through the eyes of outcasts. This is a sublime series and Shardlake a brilliant fictional creation. The next book in the series is Sovereign and, if possible, try to read the series from the beginning as it is wonderful to see how the characters develop over time. ...more <---A>C.J. Sansom</---A> is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors and Matthew Shardlake one of my favorite characters. Lawyer Shardlake would prefer a quiet life but somehow he keeps finding himself in the midst of political intrigue. Thomas Cromwell, once again, forces my favorite hunchback to investigate a mythical weapon known as Greek Fire. I thought this sounded far fetched until I did an internet search and discovered that Greek Fire/ Dark Fire is thought to have existed.Sansom always doses his b C.J. Sansom is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors and Matthew Shardlake one of my favorite characters. Lawyer Shardlake would prefer a quiet life but somehow he keeps finding himself in the midst of political intrigue. Thomas Cromwell, once again, forces my favorite hunchback to investigate a mythical weapon known as Greek Fire. I thought this sounded far fetched until I did an internet search and discovered that Greek Fire/ Dark Fire is thought to have existed.Sansom always doses his books with lots of historical facts so I should have had more faith. The supporting cast for this book is even better than Dissolution . I enjoyed the relationships between Matthew and his assistant Barak and also his friendship with Guy the Apothecary. This book is a real treat. ...more This novel begins in a hot summer in 16th century London, and we are wonderfully immersed in the sensations of the city. Against the ubiquitous heat, you get a fantastic impression of time and place. The dissolution of the monasteries....the dust and noise of buildings being pulled down, or re-deployed. Displaced monks having to re-invent themselves in other jobs and lifestyles. You also get a great sense of the fervid political shenanigans of the time, both at home and abroad, as Henry VIII shif This novel begins in a hot summer in 16th century London, and we are wonderfully immersed in the sensations of the city. Against the ubiquitous heat, you get a fantastic impression of time and place. The dissolution of the monasteries....the dust and noise of buildings being pulled down, or re-deployed. Displaced monks having to re-invent themselves in other jobs and lifestyles. You also get a great sense of the fervid political shenanigans of the time, both at home and abroad, as Henry VIII shifts from wife to wife. There is also the sheer strangeness of the past \u2013 sugar parties, cosmetically blackened teeth, the introduction of bananas (tasting floury, even when you remove the skins), death by Pierre forte et dure (pressing down with heavy stones), Bible reading for the masses, and arching over everything - the endless stink of the city. Religious passions were running high too - with Catholics, mild protestant reformers, and the extreme protestant reformers all at odds with one another. People often voiced their beliefs under the threat of being burnt at the stake for heresy. Against this magnificently evocative backdrop, we accompany our gentle lawyer hero Matthew Shardlake as he solves three different problems - one to do with a bad landlord, the second to do with a challenging murder and the third an almighty tour de force concerning a plot to do with Greek Fire \u2013 a notorious fiery substance used by the Byzantines. This is my second Shardlake novel. In both instances I have started the books slowly, as there is a wide range of characters to get familiar with.....and as I have gone on reading I have gained more and more momentum. For the last quarter of this book I had the bliss of being able to read undisturbed, and I was galloping from page to page. It really was incredibly exciting. There was also no sense that any of the threads in the story could have ended better. It was just brilliant. I have really got into Shardlake and his world now, and look forward enormously to exploring the other books in the series. ...more This was recommended to me by someone who knew my taste for history and mystery. It could hardly have been more perfect. Essentially a Tudor detective novel, the main character of Shardlake is a humble lawyer who finds himself entangled in a plot which could impact upon the whole of Europe. But this summary is so facile that I am tempted to delete it because it makes the book's contents sound trite. Sansom is the kind of author which makes you weep that neither you nor those you speak to have hea This was recommended to me by someone who knew my taste for history and mystery. It could hardly have been more perfect. Essentially a Tudor detective novel, the main character of Shardlake is a humble lawyer who finds himself entangled in a plot which could impact upon the whole of Europe. But this summary is so facile that I am tempted to delete it because it makes the book's contents sound trite. Sansom is the kind of author which makes you weep that neither you nor those you speak to have heard of him before. From the first page I was utterly in love with his writing. Delicate, intelligent with an ability to create a credible historical setting, I was drawn in immediately and did not want the book to end. The characters and locations are fascinating and I gained a better understanding of 16th century European politics here than from anything I learnt at school. That makes the book sound dry, but it certainly is not. We learn of the political backdrop because the characters care about it, and it makes you better understand their world. Sansom paints an evocative picture of Tudor London, sets out an intriguing sub-plot, and then reveals a main mystery which merges history with fiction seamlessly. The blurring together of facts with his own plot is not an ignorant trampling of history, but a careful use of real events and people to underpin his fascinating story. The cleverest aspect of the novel is that these Tudor characters are seeking to uncover a mystery that remains unsolved in the 21st century. This helps to remove our modern sense superiority over the less knowledgeable world in which the characters live, and it remind us that in some ways we are as ignorant now as we were then. I found myself educated, enthralled and an instant fan. This is the second book of the series and I have immediately begun the first. There are five books in total and I will gobble them all up hungrily as fast as I can. ...more Dark Fire , the second in the historical mystery series which has the hunchback lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, as the central character, is a triumph for its excellent author, C.J. Sansom . This Tudor mystery is set in London in 1540. It is a time of change, when the great monastic establishments are being disbanded by order of Henry 8th and land is changing hands rapidly. Henry is married for the fourth time, his latest wife being Anne of Cleves, but he is completely dissatisfied with her. He lays th Dark Fire , the second in the historical mystery series which has the hunchback lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, as the central character, is a triumph for its excellent author, C.J. Sansom . This Tudor mystery is set in London in 1540. It is a time of change, when the great monastic establishments are being disbanded by order of Henry 8th and land is changing hands rapidly. Henry is married for the fourth time, his latest wife being Anne of Cleves, but he is completely dissatisfied with her. He lays the blame for this marriage at the feet of his powerful minister, Thomas Cromwell. In his attempt to regain the King\u2019s favour, Cromwell involves Matthew Shardlake, a lawyer, in his search for the formula for Greek Fire, an ancient substance which could insure England\u2019s supremacy over her enemies. Much of the novel follows Shardlake as he tries to unearth the formula. He has a limited amount of time and he is hampered by murder and mayhem along the way. As well as this task, he is trying to find evidence to prove a young girl\u2019s innocence of murder. The novel is full of interesting characters, some fictitious, some not. Matthew Shardlake is a superb creation - a lawyer who is honest and incorruptible in a world where these values appear to be scarce. He cares deeply for those he represents and has several staunch friends. He is not without faults and some of these are pointed out by his new acquaintance, Jack Barak, a young man who works for Cromwell. The development of their relationship is an integral part of the story and I hope we will see more of Barak in future novels in this series. I do admire C.J.Sansom: he is an author who is not afraid to take time to allow his novels to unfold. For me, this has made reading \u201cDark Fire\u201d a real pleasure. ...more This book was ok as far as historical mysteries are concerned. It got pretty confusing and convoluted, there were more characters and suspects than necessary. And in the end, the bad guys end up being the people you dislike all along. Still, it was fun to read about England in the 16th century. I learned all kinds of things that were pretty interesting. Like the fact that some women used nightshade (a poison!) to make their pupils wider because it was supposed to be sexy. The book takes place ab This book was ok as far as historical mysteries are concerned. It got pretty confusing and convoluted, there were more characters and suspects than necessary. And in the end, the bad guys end up being the people you dislike all along. Still, it was fun to read about England in the 16th century. I learned all kinds of things that were pretty interesting. Like the fact that some women used nightshade (a poison!) to make their pupils wider because it was supposed to be sexy. The book takes place about 10 years after Henry VIII breaks from the Catholic church and you really get to see how scared people were and how uncertain the future was. Religion and politics were so strongly tied together that if one man in the court lost favor with the king, thousands of people could die just for following that man's religious views. This book also brought home how brutal life could be. If you didn't from starvation or disease, you could be thrown in jail and tortured or hanged or burned. Men brought swords and daggers everywhere and used them readily. It made me realize how much I take for granted. Dark Fire is the sequel to another book which I haven't read yet. I think I might give it a try but I'm not sure. I liked the characters in this book but it really did drag out for way too long. ...more The second in the Matthew Shardlake series, this is another triumph of writing and plotting. Somewhat recovered from his ordeal at the monastery from Book 1, Matthew once again gets embroiled in the politics of the realm when Cromwell sets him the task of discovering whether dark fire--the legendary secret weapon of the ancient world--has come to London. (view spoiler) [This book sees the introduction of Jack Barak, who Shardlake initially sees as a violent, threatening ruffian foisted on him by The second in the Matthew Shardlake series, this is another triumph of writing and plotting. Somewhat recovered from his ordeal at the monastery from Book 1, Matthew once again gets embroiled in the politics of the realm when Cromwell sets him the task of discovering whether dark fire--the legendary secret weapon of the ancient world--has come to London. (view spoiler) [This book sees the introduction of Jack Barak, who Shardlake initially sees as a violent, threatening ruffian foisted on him by Cromwell. Re-reading this series has been a delight because, of course, Jack becomes his confidant, his best friend in many ways, and his most loyal assistant on all his adventures. (hide spoiler) ] At the same time as being buffeted by the evil winds of the Tudor state, Matthew is trying to solve a very puzzling case. A young girl has apparently murdered her twelve-year-old cousin. But she won't speak in her defence--she won't speak at all. Held in terrible conditions in jail, she is due to be pressed (an unspeakably cruel treatment to force the silent into confession). Matthew is retained by the girl's other uncle to try and discover why this kind, gentle girl committed such a heinous crime. I couldn't put this down, and this was a second read. Highly recommended. ...more If you want the conclusions of this book to be a surprise, you'd be best not knowing anything about British history. Several things are obvious from the start if you are. For that reason, in one way it's not as strong as Dissolution; on the other hand, weaving the plot into the political climate does make for interesting reading. I am finding these books kind of addictive: they have their flaws, but Matthew is a character you can root for -- and so was Barak, as the story went on. There are some If you want the conclusions of this book to be a surprise, you'd be best not knowing anything about British history. Several things are obvious from the start if you are. For that reason, in one way it's not as strong as Dissolution; on the other hand, weaving the plot into the political climate does make for interesting reading. I am finding these books kind of addictive: they have their flaws, but Matthew is a character you can root for -- and so was Barak, as the story went on. There are some recurring characters from the previous books -- obvious ones, like Cromwell and Matthew, but also Guy. He was convenient plot wise but I think the subplot with his involvement helped add something, especially since the non-political mystery was obvious to me from early on. Lady Honour I wasn't keen on. I wonder when Matthew will meet a woman worthy of him -- if he will at all. I rather hope so: as a character he deserves romance or at a contented companionship, and as a disabled character it would be good to see. Don't spoiler me, though! Off to the library to pick up Sovereign tomorrow! ...more I wasn't that enamoured of this, second Shardlake book. I liked the fact that Sansom took us in a very different direction and allowed us to see Shardlake at home in London rather than in the confined claustrophobic abbey of Scarnsea. Unfortunately I didn't find his London convincing. Perhaps I have been spoiled by Dickens and Sarah Waters so that I was expecting to see, feel and experience the filth and squalor of Tudor England and, in fairness to Sansom, he mentions it... But I didn't feel he I wasn't that enamoured of this, second Shardlake book. I liked the fact that Sansom took us in a very different direction and allowed us to see Shardlake at home in London rather than in the confined claustrophobic abbey of Scarnsea. Unfortunately I didn't find his London convincing. Perhaps I have been spoiled by Dickens and Sarah Waters so that I was expecting to see, feel and experience the filth and squalor of Tudor England and, in fairness to Sansom, he mentions it... But I didn't feel he managed to create it. The plot also seemed a mark weaker than the first book by way of being more far fetched. The search for the apocalyptically destructive Greek Fire didn't ring true and I was far more interested in the sub-plot of Elisabeth Wentworth's trial for murder. The denouements and crises of both plots also failed to impress... It was too dramatic and too over-the-top. It was still a decent read but not as intriguing or engaging as Dissolution. ...more Another fun read from C.J. Sansom. There's something about this series that captures my imagination. The two books of the series I have read so far have been lacking in vim and vigour (hence the 4 stars not 5), but I still enjoy them immensely as the author is very talented at presenting so vividly, a 16th century London to sink into. It is a time of Henry the 8th, Cromwell and the Dissolution and it makes a colourful background to the main characters crime solving adventures. A wonderful, wonderful, wonderful historical fiction/mystery. Not quite as good as the first book in the series, Dissolution, only because this book is considerably longer and had a few subplots that were not quite a interesting. The main mystery was awesome and I loved the discussion of greek fire. I am very glad I found this series. Ik geef het toe: boek volledig beoordeeld op de prachtige cover, maar ik heb het me niet beklaagd :-) Ik ga zeker de rest van de reeks ook lezen! This is the second book of the Mathew Shardlake series. Lush writing, rich descriptions and interesting plots make this book an amazing experience of travelling to London in 1540. Cromwell needs some work done and he calls on his old aide, Mathew Shardlake and sends an assistant to help him. In return, he provides extra time to one of Shardlake\u2019s clients, accused of murder and facing a horrible death. The unlikely duo travel around London trying to solve two problems at the same time. The two pl This is the second book of the Mathew Shardlake series. Lush writing, rich descriptions and interesting plots make this book an amazing experience of travelling to London in 1540. Cromwell needs some work done and he calls on his old aide, Mathew Shardlake and sends an assistant to help him. In return, he provides extra time to one of Shardlake\u2019s clients, accused of murder and facing a horrible death. The unlikely duo travel around London trying to solve two problems at the same time. The two plots are separate, so it was amazing how the author managed to weave a narrative that did not seem disjointed. They were both equally represented and were both enjoyable. The characters were very interesting. It was a little odd to see the poor lawyer jumping around with his hunchback, but he was no superhero. A Moor in London and the insecurities he would have faced were very realistically depicted. And what does one say about Barak? He is probably the only one who got away with calling King Henry VIII \u2018the old arsehole\u2019 and still, I did not get offended! There were real historical people like Richard Rich, the Duke of Norfolk, and of course, Thomas Cromwell, in this novel. I thoroughly enjoyed the interactions with these people. A handsome and scornful Rich, magnificent in his disinterest, a tantrum throwing Duke and a Cromwell who could both be gentle and heavy handed \u2013 an absolute delight to read! Reading the book really gives a feel of how it would have been during those days, especially in the shoes of the common people. The fears, the uncertainties, and certainly, the small triumphs of everyday life just draw you into the pages of the story to the extent you see yourself relating to people long dead and gone. The only complaint I have with this book is that instead of choosing inane authors, producers have not seem to have signed up for a show on this series. I look forward to the day when it happens but until then, I am happy to let my imagination run riot along with the author. I still have three more books left. ...more This second in Sansom\u2019s Matthew Shardlake series of crime novels finds the situation in 16th century London growing increasingly tense. His arrangement of the marriage of Henry VIII and Anne of Cleves having proved to be a disaster, the position of Thomas Cromwell is increasingly precarious. He is seeking the clue to the reputed \u201cGreek Fire\u201d in order to restore his reputation with the King. The lawyer Shardlake, out of the public eye for the past few years, is called upon to defend a young woman This second in Sansom\u2019s Matthew Shardlake series of crime novels finds the situation in 16th century London growing increasingly tense. His arrangement of the marriage of Henry VIII and Anne of Cleves having proved to be a disaster, the position of Thomas Cromwell is increasingly precarious. He is seeking the clue to the reputed \u201cGreek Fire\u201d in order to restore his reputation with the King. The lawyer Shardlake, out of the public eye for the past few years, is called upon to defend a young woman accused of murder, and the price he must pay to gain time is to agree to work for Cromwell again. Sansom\u2019s narrative is vividly sensual, filled with the sights and sounds, the vigor and filth, the disparities of wealth and social position, and the political intrigues and marked contrasts within Tudor London. The ambiance is brought fully alive in a story that deals more with external events than with psychic introspection. But that is probably consistent with the life and times about which Sansom writes, the fascination with individual psychology having developed more over the past two centuries, arguably initiated in part at the onset of the 17th century by Shakespeare. It is inevitable that a thoughtful reader will find himself comparing social issues and problems of those times with life in our society today. All differences being acknowledged, similarities can be haunting. ...more This is the second installment to the very successful Shardlake series. I know the paperback version runs to over 500 pages, and yet it is a fairly quick read. The Tudor period is brilliantly re-created with all it's sounds sights and smells. They were bloody and treacherous times, and the plot twists come thick and fast. Mathew Shardlake may appear at times like a man out of the time in which he lives, an honorable, compassionate, just man, often suffering prejudice for being a hunchback. We me This is the second installment to the very successful Shardlake series. I know the paperback version runs to over 500 pages, and yet it is a fairly quick read. The Tudor period is brilliantly re-created with all it's sounds sights and smells. They were bloody and treacherous times, and the plot twists come thick and fast. Mathew Shardlake may appear at times like a man out of the time in which he lives, an honorable, compassionate, just man, often suffering prejudice for being a hunchback. We meet again the man who helped Shardlake in the first book, Brother Guy - now an apothercary, who again proves invaluable to Shardlake. Shardlake is presuaded to undertake a new mission for Thomas Cromwell, the search for Greek Fire, and he is assisted by one of Cromwell's men, Barak, who's rough ways and suspicious nature make them uneasy colleagues. This search see Shardlake and Barak associate with some hard and desperate men, and leads to more than one brutal killing. Alongside Shardlake's dangerous mission, is the story of a the young girl accused of the murder of her cousin, but who remains stubbornly silent, a silence that could see her \"pressed\" - which would slowly kill her. Shardlake is desperate to save her, and time is running out. An intelligent, well written page turner, for lovers of mysteries and historical novels. ...more This is the second novel by C.J. Sansom, a former lawyer in the UK who also has a PhD in history. Matthew Shardlake, the lawyer protagonist, has hoped to stay away from mystery and danger, but Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII's dependable enforcer, needs him to find the men who said they had discovered the secret of Greek Fire, a devastating ancient flamethrower used by the Byzantines against the Ottoman Turks and others. Cromwell's own position has become shaky because he arranged the marriage of He This is the second novel by C.J. Sansom, a former lawyer in the UK who also has a PhD in history. Matthew Shardlake, the lawyer protagonist, has hoped to stay away from mystery and danger, but Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII's dependable enforcer, needs him to find the men who said they had discovered the secret of Greek Fire, a devastating ancient flamethrower used by the Byzantines against the Ottoman Turks and others. Cromwell's own position has become shaky because he arranged the marriage of Henry to the frumpy Anne of Cleves after he orchestrated the accusation, trial, and beheading of the king's second wife, Anne Boleyn, and he needs to make major points with Henry to keep his position--and his head. Master Shardlake is helped in his search by Jack Barak, a streetwise young man educated by monks. Murders follow murders, with more attempts to silence Shardlake. This is another gripping novel you won't want to put down. ...more Opet odli\u010dan roman, drugi u nizu ovog fantasti\u010dnog autora. Nastavlja se pri\u010da o Engleskoj u doba vladavine Tudora, to\u010dnije Henrika VIII. i neprikosnovene mo\u0107i njegovog ministra Cromwella. Zadatak Matthewa Shardlakea i njegovog novog pomo\u0107nika Baraka je prona\u0107i \"crnu vatru\", posebnu teku\u0107inu koja u dodiru s izvorom vatre pro\u017edire sve pred sobom. Istovremeno, Matthew preuzima obranu djevojke kako bi je spasio od smrtne kazne. Do smjese je te\u0161ko do\u0107i jer je navodno nestala i nije mogu\u0107e napraviti n Opet odli\u010dan roman, drugi u nizu ovog fantasti\u010dnog autora. Nastavlja se pri\u010da o Engleskoj u doba vladavine Tudora, to\u010dnije Henrika VIII. i neprikosnovene mo\u0107i njegovog ministra Cromwella. Zadatak Matthewa Shardlakea i njegovog novog pomo\u0107nika Baraka je prona\u0107i \"crnu vatru\", posebnu teku\u0107inu koja u dodiru s izvorom vatre pro\u017edire sve pred sobom. Istovremeno, Matthew preuzima obranu djevojke kako bi je spasio od smrtne kazne. Do smjese je te\u0161ko do\u0107i jer je navodno nestala i nije mogu\u0107e napraviti novu ali cijeli slu\u010daj postaje zapravo puno ozbiljniji zbog politi\u010dkih konotacija. Napetosti ne manjka a ja jedva \u010dekam tre\u0107i nastavak iz serijala. ...more As a lifelong history buff and fan of crime fiction my discovery of the historical detective genre was something of a delight, and C. J. Sansom ranks alongside Steven Saylor as one of my favourite writers in the field. All the books in this series are excellent but this second outing for lawyer turned occasional detective Matthew Shardlake is my personal favourite. Intrigue, murder and alchemical science abound as Shardlake is compelled by an increasingly desperate Thomas Cromwell to seek out th As a lifelong history buff and fan of crime fiction my discovery of the historical detective genre was something of a delight, and C. J. Sansom ranks alongside Steven Saylor as one of my favourite writers in the field. All the books in this series are excellent but this second outing for lawyer turned occasional detective Matthew Shardlake is my personal favourite. Intrigue, murder and alchemical science abound as Shardlake is compelled by an increasingly desperate Thomas Cromwell to seek out the ancient secret to Greek Fire through the decidedly grimy maze of Tudor-era London. Highly recommended. Also, why no movie / TV series yet? Johnny Depp would make the perfect Shardlake. ...more This book gets five stars for atmosphere, but the story is less enticing than in \"Dissolution\". Master Shardlake is sent across London to hunt for the lost Greek Fire. He discovers only death in its traces. At the same time he is trying to rescue a young girl accused of murder from the press as she refuses to plead. Original and interesting, but not top notch. Background is often key to a writer who produces an unusual and bestselling series of books. This is the second book in C.J. Sansom\u2019s excellent medieval mystery series, after Dissolution, which dealt with the selfish despoilation and destruction of the monasteries. It might help prospective readers to realise that Sansom was educated at Birmingham University (UK) and then took a PhD in history. Add this to some professional training as a solicitor (lawyer) and the fact he practiced law in Sussex Background is often key to a writer who produces an unusual and bestselling series of books. This is the second book in C.J. Sansom\u2019s excellent medieval mystery series, after Dissolution, which dealt with the selfish despoilation and destruction of the monasteries. It might help prospective readers to realise that Sansom was educated at Birmingham University (UK) and then took a PhD in history. Add this to some professional training as a solicitor (lawyer) and the fact he practiced law in Sussex for a while before becoming a full time writer. All of this tells us that Sansom is an intelligent, knowledgeable and educated man. It also tells us that he knows his history and law. That gives him a pretty useful head start for a writer setting out to write a series of mystery crime thrillers based in medieval England! Moreover, he chooses as his time-frame medieval England in an era of great civil and social unrest, soon after King Henry VIII had spurned the country\u2019s former Catholicism \u2013 Henry had even received the honour of Fid Def (defender of the faith \u2013 still produced on British coins) from Pope Clement VII before he turned on the Pope and Catholicism to jettison wife no 1, Catherine of Aragon, because she had failed to give him a male heir. He then had his Chief Minister, Thomas Cromwell, together with Archbishop Cranmer, arrange his marriage to Anne Boleyn, who, alas, also failed to deliver a surviving son . . . and so we enter a dark and terrifying time in medieval England when, from year to year, you could be burnt alive for professing anti-Catholic reformist Protestant opinions, or, as the wind changed, more extreme Protestant affirmations. A dangerous place and dangerous times then, when, during the hottest summer of the sixteenth century, Matthew Shardlake, sleuth and lawyer, finds himself emotionally drawn into a case of an eighteen-year-old woman, Elizabeth Wentworth, accused of the brutal murder of a boy, whose body is dumped at the bottom of her uncle\u2019s well. All may not be as it seems, since the young woman refuses to speak in her defence. Criminal cases involving the non-gentry are given short shrift and the girl is to be compelled to speak, or die, by having her arms and legs manacled, a sharp stone put in the middle of her back and heavy weights placed on her chest, the weight increasing day by day. It is unlikely she would survive such torture, innocent or guilty. Meanwhile lawyer Shardlake has been summoned by Thomas Cromwell, Chief Minister for the King, to solve a bizarre mystery involving the rediscovery of a weapon that dates back to Byzantine times, known as Greek or Dark Fire. The discovery might save Cromwell\u2019s skin with the King, who has become disillusioned with his Chief Minister after Cromwell has landed him with the purportedly unlovely Anne of Cleves as a new wife. As a sweetener, Cromwell, who doesn\u2019t really give a damn about the young woman, innocent or not, delays her torture to put Matthew under even more pressure to solve the weapon dilemma. Not only is Shardlake, whose life is already vulnerable in an age that despises handicap, by having a hunchback; he is now thrown into a cruel and brutal struggle for power in which his own life, and the life of his employer, the all-powerful Cromwell, is at extreme risk. In this way, Sansom constructs an unputdownable labyrinthine thriller in which the many desperate strands all fit, in the end, with known history. This is quite an achievement. The mystery aspects are well played out, but to be honest it\u2019s their placing in such an accurate and fascinating montage of medieval England, and the walled city of London in particular, with its muck-filled streets and polluted Thames, that make the book so enjoyable. It is intriguing to glimpse how people lived and survived during such calamitous times \u2013 indeed historic times that went a long way to creating the present England. For me it is these elements that make this, and the previous book, exceptionally interesting. ...more", "Title": "Dark Fire"},
