{"Comments": "Pratchett addresses two questions here: (1) \u201cDo you think it's possible for an entire nation to be insane?\u201d and (2) Does - and,<---M> more importantly</---M>, should - a well-placed pair of socks (for 'certain' sort of padding) make a difference? \u201cThe presence of those seeking the truth is infinitely to be preferred to the presence of those who think they've found it.\u201d As far as Discworld series is concerned, this book can be easily read as a standalone novel. It brings us to the little backwards countr Pratchett addresses two questions here: (1) \u201cDo you think it's possible for an entire nation to be insane?\u201d and (2) Does - and, more importantly, should - a well-placed pair of socks (for 'certain' sort of padding) make a difference? \u201cThe presence of those seeking the truth is infinitely to be preferred to the presence of those who think they've found it.\u201d As far as Discworld series is concerned, this book can be easily read as a standalone novel. It brings us to the little backwards country of Borogravia , which is constantly at war with someone - this time it's with Zlobenia. Ankh-Morpork is expected to intervene, since, as Commander <---C>Sam Vimes</---C> points out in his cameo appearance, \"the interests of Ankh-Morpork are the interests of all money-lov... oops, sorry, all freedom -loving people everywhere.\" \"Borogravia was a peace-loving country in the midst of treacherous, devious, warlike enemies. They had to be treacherous, devious, and warlike, otherwise we wouldn't be fighting them, eh? There was always a war.\" Borogravia's economy is on the verge of collapse, and the country has pretty much run out of eligible soldiers. But this does not stop the little country, governed by a \"probably dead\" Duchess , the country that follows the ever-expanding ring-bound (makes it easier to add pages) gospel of the god Nuggan , who seems to spend his time coming up with new Abominations - recently, we've had garlic, chocolate, dwarfs, cats, oysters and the color blue join the ranks. \"So what we have here is a country that tries to run itself on the commandments of a god, who, the people feel, may be wearing his underpants on his head.<---F> Has he Abomined underpants?\" \"No, sir</---F>. [...] But it's probably only a matter of time.\" Polly Perks does not care about war, money, or patriotism. What she cares about is saving her not-too-bright brother who has disappeared in the war. So, of course, she chops her hair off and joins the army disguised as a boy. ( Did I mention that lots of Nuggan's Abominations have something to do with women acting \"non-womanlike\"? ) A mysterious unseen benefactor advises her on the benefits of a well-placed pair of socks in the 'nether regions'. And given that the title of the book comes from the infamous The First Blast of the Trumpet Against the <+++>Monstrous Regiment</+++> of Women , the readers can easily guess the true nature of Polly's war comrades. Like we have learned to expect from Sir Terry's novels, this book is witty and has plenty of funny moments. But, as many of his more recent novels, it is also sad, angry and frustrated with the events in Discworld clearly paralleling the things that make us angry in the \"Roundworld\". I love that this book, like the rest of Pratchett's creations, makes me think. Some may complain that the message of this book is on the heavy-handed side, but I love it. I love that Pratchett is not shy or subtle about getting the message across about the evils and pitfalls of bigotry, prejudice, discrimination, and so-called patriotism bordering on jingoism. He is not subtle about the things that people should NOT be subtle about, and I love it. He is open about asking uncomfortable questions and stirring up trouble, and love this as well. \u201cYou take a bunch of people who don't seem any different from you and me, but when you add them all together you get this sort of huge raving maniac with national borders and an anthem.\u201d Another thing I love about Pratchett's writing is that he is one of the (regrettably) few male fantasy authors who can portray a woman as not a stereotype or a caricature or a mystery or an adorable nuisance or a far-fetched ideal but as a normal (well, normal for Discworld), real, and believable human being. \u201cThis was not a fairy-tale castle and there was no such thing as a fairy-tale ending, but sometimes you could threaten to kick the handsome prince in the ham-and-eggs.\u201d As it's becoming common in Pratchett's novels, the ending is not happy but has bittersweet undertones. There is an understanding that it takes a lot to change the world, to change people's beliefs and prejudices, that anything that is won is only a small step on a long road. \"And now it wasn't that good things were happening, it was just that bad things had stopped.\" Pratchett is not reluctant to show that the world's ways of dealing with things that are uncomfortable, that challenge the status quo is to pretend that they never happened, pretend that they are the exception rather than the rule, pretend that ignoring things would make them go away. \"We weren't soldiers, she decided. We were girls in uniform. We were like a lucky charm. We were mascots. We weren't real, we were always a symbol of something. We'd done very well, for women. And we were temporary.\" ************************************************ This is now one of my favorite Discworld novels. Five stars is not enough to describe how much I loved it. And I adored the little cameos from the other Discworld characters, especially Vimes (I am a true Vimes girl, why'd you ask?) \"The enemy wasn't men, or women, or the old, or even the dead. It was just bleedin' stupid people, who came in all varieties. And no one had the right to be stupid.\" ...more This is the second most-frequently read of my favorite <---A>Terry Pratchett</---A> books, the first being Night Watch, which helped get me through the death of my mother. My latest copy of <+++>Monstrous Regiment</+++> is so battered and dog-eared that it\u2019s falling apart. From sentence number one I was riveted and if you are wondering whether you should read this book, the short answer is yes, turn your cursor right now to a new tab and order it, or even better jog out to your local (probably half an hour away) bookst This is the second most-frequently read of my favorite Terry Pratchett books, the first being Night Watch, which helped get me through the death of my mother. My latest copy of Monstrous Regiment is so battered and dog-eared that it\u2019s falling apart. From sentence number one I was riveted and if you are wondering whether you should read this book, the short answer is yes, turn your cursor right now to a new tab and order it, or even better jog out to your local (probably half an hour away) bookstore (they\u2019re an endangered species) and support them by buying it there. It\u2019s that good. Sir Terry is that good a writer. Read the book before finishing this review; you\u2019ll thank me for the advice, and if you haven\u2019t already devoured the Discworld series you are in for the rollercoaster ride and treat of your life. By the way, Sir Terry is a personal hero of mine. When he died last March I cried for days. He went leaving the bravest self-written epitaph I have ever read: \"Terry took Death's arm and followed him through the doors and on to the black desert under the endless night. The End.\" I was so stricken and devastated when I read this that I wrote a short response to it, which I kept to myself because I realized that I had no right to besmirch Sir Terry\u2019s courage by imposing my own end-of-life beliefs on his in public. I get choked up just trying to write about this wonderful man and I ardently look forward to the day when we can cure Alzheimer\u2019s disease and save the minds of other brilliant people like him. And guess what? Monstrous Regiment is a \u201cgender-bending\u201d book, meaning that it\u2019s about a girl who dresses up as a boy to get into the army of an extremely misogynistic and backward country so she can try to rescue her older brother Paul, whom she has taken care of since she was a child. That\u2019s not a spoiler, by the way: that\u2019s on the back cover. The entire story is about female and male roles, and whether or not they should change. Ahem. More about that later. But the point is, this is an extremely appropriate book for the first of my new reviews. It\u2019s also a book that will probably make you think a few new thoughts, especially if female equality isn\u2019t an obsession of yours, and therefore obviously worth reading. Monstrous Regiment will also make you think about war. There is enough about realistic fighting in it to make you freeze in shock at points. Like Night Watch, like all of Sir Terry\u2019s best writing, it deals with a serious subject in a loopy way, and the loopiness in turn has a deadly serious razor edge to it. Yes, yes, war is bad and grass is green (except in drought-stricken California, where it\u2019s dun) but Monstrous Regiment will make you feel up close and personal what it\u2019s like to be a soldier. And heaven only knows they know what war is really like. If you don\u2019t feel some wheels turning in your head as you re-evaluate your position on whether anybody should fight anybody with anything after reading this book you are either smarter than everyone else left here in the world (and maybe a bodhisattva) or dumber than a pigeon. The third subject Monstrous Regiment takes on is religion. Yes, organized religion and heavenly religion, too. And, once again, the book will probably surprise you. It astounded and amazed me by its bravery in handling this particular hot potato. I won\u2019t go into the subject at length here because there are some spoilers that are pretty important to the discussion, but suffice it to say that new thoughts may well rocket back and forth in your head at the speed of a light clacks\u2019 signals, which is to say at c for celeritas. Sir Terry is a genius when it comes to turning established \u201ctruths\u201d on their heads and then turning them back over again . . . and back upside-down just for good measure. So definitely, without doubt, read the book. There are some terrific characters introduced here. The protagonist, Polly Oliver Ozzer Perks, is a very likeable girl, and the question of whether she is a lovable girl\u2014a hero to adore and/or emulate\u2014doesn\u2019t really even arise. I\u2019d be entirely happy to have Polly on my team any day, and I\u2019d not hesitate to call on her in time of need. She\u2019s smart and solid. That\u2019s high praise from me. Overall: The action in the book is fast and furious, the humor is hilarious, the writing is fresh and vibrant, the ideas breathtaking, and there are even a few brief appearances by Samuel Vimes, who is my favorite of all Sir Terry\u2019s characters, male or female. That is my conventional review of Monstrous Regiment, and I give it a conventional five out of five stars. See the comments below for the rest of my review. ...more Five stars really aren't enough. I think this might be my favorite Terry Pratchett book. I've read it at least 3-4 times, and re-reading it today, I'm delighted to discover that it's every bit as good as before. As an added bonus, this book would be easier for new readers of Pratchett to pick up. There are a few characters from previous books, but they only have very brief cameo appearances. Other than that the book is pretty much self contained.... pat There was always a war. Usually they were border disputes, the national equivalent of complaining that the neighbor was letting their hedge grow too long. Sometimes they were bigger. Borogravia was a peace-loving country in the midst of treacherous, devious, warlike enemies. They had to be treacherous, devious, and war-like, otherwise we wouldn't be fighting them, eh? There was always a war. The Night Watch goes to War! Or, at least, that was my expectation before I started the novel. Only thin There was always a war. Usually they were border disputes, the national equivalent of complaining that the neighbor was letting their hedge grow too long. Sometimes they were bigger. Borogravia was a peace-loving country in the midst of treacherous, devious, warlike enemies. They had to be treacherous, devious, and war-like, otherwise we wouldn't be fighting them, eh? There was always a war. The Night Watch goes to War! Or, at least, that was my expectation before I started the novel. Only thing is, this Discworld novel is not exactly about the Night Watch, even if Sam Vimes, Angua and a couple of others do participate in the conflict. The theme chosen by Sir Terry is indeed the lampooning of martial mentality, but the main actors are a bunch of fresh recruits in the army of Borogravia. Each of these recruits harbors a secret identity, and I guess it is not much of a spoiler to mention that for some of them that identity has to do with gender roles. A long history of open conflict with all its neighbors, in particular a recent attack on Ankh-Morpork clack towers has brought Vimes and the imperial forces to fight on the side of Zlobenia and has left Borogravia deprived of fresh blood to send to the slaughter. Recruiting parties are chased out of the impoverished villages empty handed, until Polly decides to switch genres and enroll. All it takes, apparently is a pair of socks, shorn hair and a lifetime of observing the habits of the opposite sex. You might pick your nose a bit more often. Just a tip. Few things interest a young man more than the contents of his nostrils. The new platoon that Polly joins is heading for the front, where a defeated Borogravian army is dug in under the battlements of a massive fortress they just lost due to the deviousness of Vimes. Under the fierce tutelage of veteran sergeant Jackrum, a ragtag collection of losers and misfits is welded together into a formidable fighting machine, in the best tradition of war movies that Pratchett sets out to subvert with an energy and a self-assurance that proves the Discworld treasure chest of ideas is far for reaching its bottom. I spotted some clear references to Apocalypse Now and Full Metal Jacket, but there are probably more barbed arrows that I missed along the way. I joined t'see exciting forrin places and meet erotic people! declares Carborundum, a rumbling troll in search of adventure who probably means exotic people. The platoon also includes an Igor, an abstinent vampire, a pyromaniac, a pregnant girl, a religious zealot modelled after Jeanne d'Arc, a couple of runaways from a correction house, etc. Together they will become famous as the Monstrous Regiment and they will change the course of history. This would have been one of my favorite Discworld novels, given the mastery of plot, comedy and pathos that I have come to expect from every new Pratchett novel, but for a small bother. (view spoiler) [ I enjoyed the reversal of gender roles, but I believe the joke was taken too far by the end of the novel, with almost everybody being a woman in disguise. (hide spoiler) ] An added attraction in the story is the second main avenue of attack for the author: religious intolerance. Borogravian military problems are compounded by their peculiar branch of belief in a living holy scripture, whose Book of Nuggan addendum is much longer than the main text and is updated weekly with new interdictions and sins, like red hair, pickles or singing. The presence of those seeking the truth is infinitely to be preferred to the presence of those who think they've found it . may not be the most original dictum written by Pratchett, but it is one I could subscribe to without reservations. Time to say goodbye to Pollyand wish her all the best of luck trying to revolutionaze the Borogravian rigid ways, while I add to my TBR the next Discworld issue. ...more That'd been almost a year ago, when any recruiting party that came past went away with the best part of a battalion, and there had been people waving them off with flags and music. Sometimes, now, smaller parties of men came back. The lucky ones were missing only one arm or one leg. There were no flags. It's hard finding soldiers when you're always at war. Especially when you're fighting a war that you may not be winning. Eventually, you end up taking whatever you can get...trolls, vampires, even. That'd been almost a year ago, when any recruiting party that came past went away with the best part of a battalion, and there had been people waving them off with flags and music. Sometimes, now, smaller parties of men came back. The lucky ones were missing only one arm or one leg. There were no flags. It's hard finding soldiers when you're always at war. Especially when you're fighting a war that you may not be winning. Eventually, you end up taking whatever you can get...trolls, vampires, even...GASP!...women! The horror, the horror! The newest recruits to This Man's Army (snicker!) are a mixed bunch and they're quickly discovering that war is not all it's cracked up to be. They find themselves ill-equipped with only hand-me-downs from dead soldiers and no rations. \"We have to steal our food?\" said Maladict. \"No, you can starve if that takes your fancy,\" said the corporal. \"I've starved a few times. There's no future in it.\" Things can only get worse. Then, they do. \"Men, I have good news,\" he added, but in the voice of one who hasn't. \"You were probably expecting a week or two in the training camp in Crotz, yes? But I'm glad to be able to tell you that the, the war is progressing so, so well that you are to go directly to the front.\" Soon, reality sets in and the realization of their dire predicament descends like a fog. They were losing the war. Everyone knew that, but nobody would say it. It was as if they felt that if the words weren't said out loud then it wasn't really happening. They were losing the war and this squad, untrained and untried, fighting in dead men's boots, could only help them lose it faster. I have a problem when it comes to some Pratchett novels, particularly those lacking in witches. I'm reading along like gangbusters, then about halfway through, I lose all interest. I begin eyeing up that stack of unread, perhaps, more interesting books by the bed. I call this \"The Discworld Doldrums.\" Luckily, my attention bounced back with this one, though I honestly believe a pared down version might have been funnier. So, this was definitely not a high point in the series for me. HOWEVER - Pratchett does a fantastic job of summing up the folly of war. \"We are a proud country.\" \"What are you proud of?\" It came swiftly, like a blow, and Polly realized how wars happened. You took that shock that had run through her and let it boil. ...it may be corrupt, benighted, and stupid, but it's ours... We have our pride. And that's what we're proud of. We're proud of being proud... ...more Akrepski odred mi se \u010dini kao jedan od boljih Pra\u010deta (dobro, za mene uvek odska\u010du oni Pra\u010deti u kojima ima ve\u0161tica ili Stra\u017ee). A \u010dini mi se da je i prevod me\u0111u na\u0161im boljim prevodima Pra\u010deta. Kupio me je ve\u0107 nabrajanjem pesama tipa \"Ja sam ja, D\u017eeremaja\" i \"Rado ide D\u017eoni u vojnike\" jer... kako to mislite, krosover Hermanovog stripa i Tozovca mo\u017ee da ne bude sme\u0161an? It is an amazing coincidence that my 31st Discworld novel is #31 since I have focused on the City Watch series, the Tiffany Aching series, and the recent, more humorous books. In this one, Sir Terry's prime focus on the follies of war. The aging but much experienced Sergeant Jackrum is recruiting soldiers because most have been captured or killed, even though his side is supposedly winning. Only misfits are left -- those wanting to escape their dreary or worse lives. So, he ends up with a vampire It is an amazing coincidence that my 31st Discworld novel is #31 since I have focused on the City Watch series, the Tiffany Aching series, and the recent, more humorous books. In this one, Sir Terry's prime focus on the follies of war. The aging but much experienced Sergeant Jackrum is recruiting soldiers because most have been captured or killed, even though his side is supposedly winning. Only misfits are left -- those wanting to escape their dreary or worse lives. So, he ends up with a vampire, a troll, an Igor, and a young woman, named Polly, who pretends to be a boy (Private Oliver Perks) so she can find her brother, who is MIA. Leading the group is Lieutenant Blouse, a thinking officer, who is derisively referred to as a Rupert. Against all odds, this group (view spoiler) [of all women, except Blouse (hide spoiler) ] manages to change the course of the war with their bravery, determination and common sense. Favorite quote: The enemy wasn't men, or women, or the old, or even the dead. It was just bleedin' stupid people, who came in all varieties. And no one had the right to be stupid. ...more **edit 11/26/13 Born in the war-torn, misogynistic country of Borogravia, Polly Perks has grown up with the folksong echoing in the back of her mind. Perhaps, then, it is only natural that when her brother goes missing in action, Polly decides to use the song's example to find her brother. She cuts her hair, practices her swagger, and, equipped with a strategically-placed pair of socks, sets off to enlist. Of course, after countless years of war, Borogravia recruitment is scraping the bottom of t **edit 11/26/13 Born in the war-torn, misogynistic country of Borogravia, Polly Perks has grown up with the folksong echoing in the back of her mind. Perhaps, then, it is only natural that when her brother goes missing in action, Polly decides to use the song's example to find her brother. She cuts her hair, practices her swagger, and, equipped with a strategically-placed pair of socks, sets off to enlist. Of course, after countless years of war, Borogravia recruitment is scraping the bottom of the barrel. It isn't long before Polly discovers that she has joined in with a motley crew of trolls, vampires, Igors, and misfits--a truly monstrous regiment. \"Oliver\" Perks will fit right in. Due to my disapproval of GR's new and rather subjective review deletion policy, the rest of my (long, quote-heavy) review is posted over here at Booklikes. 5++ stars. I dreamt all men were equal And there were no starving poor And nations never did quarrel Nor never went to war I dreamt all men were angels And women ne'er wore a frown Old maids they had large families As the world turned upside down --The World Turned Upside Down (Chumbawamba) ...more It seems that every genre fan worth the name should read at least one Pratchett novel. I find the large body of works devoted to Discworld rather intimidating, which is why Monstrous Regiment is one of the few Discworld novels that I have read. With the exception of a few preexisting characters, this novel stands well on it\u2019s own. Above and beyond that, I was drawn to this book because it is about women disguising themselves as men--and I have a weakness for stories about crossdressing heroines. It seems that every genre fan worth the name should read at least one Pratchett novel. I find the large body of works devoted to Discworld rather intimidating, which is why Monstrous Regiment is one of the few Discworld novels that I have read. With the exception of a few preexisting characters, this novel stands well on it\u2019s own. Above and beyond that, I was drawn to this book because it is about women disguising themselves as men--and I have a weakness for stories about crossdressing heroines. Monstrous Regiment was a quick, engaging read. The humour was present throughout, but never overwhelming. There were some serious and deeply moving moments, especially when dealing with what it meant to be a woman and a soldier Borogravia, a deeply troubled country. I liked all of the characters, and the development of the squad as a team and as friends. While the ending is open-ended, I adore it. ...more Normally I would include a Pratchett book on my \"clear-unparalled-genius\" shelf but this one is not getting a spot on there. I've read everything that Pratchett has written (Discworld, Gaimen collaborations, plus the Diggers/Truckers/Wings books and other discworld spin-offs) and while this book is clever in the trademark Pratchett way, the story is less funny because it is closer to the real world than many of the others in the series. The charm of the Discworld is that normally its like lookin Normally I would include a Pratchett book on my \"clear-unparalled-genius\" shelf but this one is not getting a spot on there. I've read everything that Pratchett has written (Discworld, Gaimen collaborations, plus the Diggers/Truckers/Wings books and other discworld spin-offs) and while this book is clever in the trademark Pratchett way, the story is less funny because it is closer to the real world than many of the others in the series. The charm of the Discworld is that normally its like looking at life through the wrong end of a telescope- the reality is further away than usual. This one does the reverse and highlights real world issues; the legality of war, equal rights, and the politics of laying down your life for religion. Difficult to make most of this stuff funny at the best of times but Pratchett does manage it in places. Still enough funnies to raise a wry smile but if you're looking for belly laughs then you need to look elsewhere on the Discworld. ...more This book was really a wonderful read, it just shows that gender diversity is important and in some places it is more needed than in others. Now I have seen that some people here did not give this book such a great review. It does boggle my mind as to why they have given three stars or less. The biggest thing to remember is that the books of Terry Pratchett does have a reading order and follows a story line and should by all means not be read in publication order. In all I can not say to much on th This book was really a wonderful read, it just shows that gender diversity is important and in some places it is more needed than in others. Now I have seen that some people here did not give this book such a great review. It does boggle my mind as to why they have given three stars or less. The biggest thing to remember is that the books of Terry Pratchett does have a reading order and follows a story line and should by all means not be read in publication order. In all I can not say to much on the subject of the author or his books, because I am a huge fan and would be extremely biased. ...more January 10, 2017 March 22, 2015 January 1, 2004 I'm fond of stories about girls dressing as boys in order to do something they would otherwise be prohibited from. Very funny. Library copy Ahh.. thank goodness for GR reviews. Why, you ask? Because I'm about to besmirch an author I adore. And I'm glad to be following in other footsteps that had a similar hill to conquer. I don't love this book. I just don't. Mr. Pratchett has a gentle and funny way of adding real world elements to his books, poking fun at some pretty difficult moral issues. And yet this book seemed too heavy-handed, too obvious, and too repetitive. Once upon a time I considered myself a feminist. That was before husban Ahh.. thank goodness for GR reviews. Why, you ask? Because I'm about to besmirch an author I adore. And I'm glad to be following in other footsteps that had a similar hill to conquer. I don't love this book. I just don't. Mr. Pratchett has a gentle and funny way of adding real world elements to his books, poking fun at some pretty difficult moral issues. And yet this book seemed too heavy-handed, too obvious, and too repetitive. Once upon a time I considered myself a feminist. That was before husband and children came along and biology reminded me that I had a certain role to play (instinct is like that). I take pride in being female, I respect and adore men for what they are. Both genders are equal- equal here meaning 'having gifts deserving of identical weight', NOT equal-meaning-the-same. I love that about us. And it means I can appreciate how men and women can be the yin and yang of society. Both different, both important. And I'll add a dirty little secret: I really don't mind reading books with a male lead. It honestly doesn't make me feel victimized. Maybe that affected my reading. I felt that this book was written for a highly feminist set, which would have been fine.. but it just takes the entire thing much much too far. I can buy certain aspects of it- so a war-torn country has no sons, and an entire regiment is made up of women. 'K. I'll take it. But the book doesn't stop there. And two reveals in this book bothered me completely: they would have added the humor factor to the book if they had been left as they were instead. That reminded me of another Pratchett book- one I loved intensely- where a character commits suicide. I so wanted her to pop back up and say 'Well, that didn't work', and laugh along. But she didn't... because the author had a statement to make, instead. Just like in this book. Terry Pratchett writes incredible female characters, anyway, and he did equally well with this one (missing only one monthly issue that he may not have wanted to discuss- but at one point in the book I thought it was going to be that moment.. nope, just socks ;) ). There were funny aspects here, too. But when all was said and done, it felt like a moral lesson rather than a jolly romp through the picker bushes of humanity. Can't bring myself to give him less than 4 stars for, once again, incredible characters, writing, and story flow. But I didn't love it. ...more Polly \"Perks\" blonde Borogravian barmaid cuts her braids, practices her belching and swaggering, and joins tobacco-chewer legendary Sergeant Jack Jackrum's little lads. Perks seeks her big slow-witted brother Paul, one of the many missing In-and-out troopers. \"Shufti\" Manickle seeks \"Dear John\". \"Tonker\" Halter keeps close to and restrains pyromaniac pal \"Lofty\" Tewt. Vampire Maladict is addicted to coffee instead of blood. Frail \"Wazzer\" Goom prays, more fervently than the average citizen, and Polly \"Perks\" blonde Borogravian barmaid cuts her braids, practices her belching and swaggering, and joins tobacco-chewer legendary Sergeant Jack Jackrum's little lads. Perks seeks her big slow-witted brother Paul, one of the many missing In-and-out troopers. \"Shufti\" Manickle seeks \"Dear John\". \"Tonker\" Halter keeps close to and restrains pyromaniac pal \"Lofty\" Tewt. Vampire Maladict is addicted to coffee instead of blood. Frail \"Wazzer\" Goom prays, more fervently than the average citizen, and even Listens to the Duchess, unseen for decades, but better than the god Nuggan who declares increasingly insane Abominations: the color blue, oysters, babies. Zombie Igor expertly sews on limbs, like all the Igor tribe. Huge troll Carborundum is slow, but rock hard. Their officer, Lieutenant Blouse, myopic desk jockey, creator of new filing system, is encouraged to keep his eye on the big picture and allow his commands to be anticipated. Meanwhile at enemy headquarters, we glimpse (from Discworld Snuff) Sam Vines, Ankh-Morpork (and allies) army chief seeking any means of truce, and spying hope in the small merry band of monsters. The final castle battle reveals astonishing secrets about the top military leaders. Humor wins us over to support female capability. \"And the new day was a great big fish.\" Except for the frontspiece satirical political cartoon, most of cast are listed above. Curvy females won't identify with Polly pretending to be a boy, but I was a scrawny flat kid, and got mistaken for male even as a long-haired teen. The extensive eccentric cast and their interaction catch my curiosity. What will they do next? Not so fond of the name-dropping Sam Vimes cameo, and well-done plot: girl as boy grows up going to war. For an old guy, Pratchett is observant of the benefits of pockets in male clothing. Maybe female shoes are not so important pointed where country's economy is based on a clog. ...more (view spoiler) [The \"guys\" are all chicks! (hide spoiler) ] It's a plot gimmick that never gets old, even after the tenth surprise reveal! Haha, uh, NO. I'm sure his fans would tell me this wasn't the best Pratchett to start with. My choices are always so BAD for highly-rated authors! ;D His humor isn't exactly a ha-ha kind of funny. More a very quiet kind of funny. So quiet I missed it entirely. U po\u010detku je dosta slabija knjiga od prose\u010dne Pra\u010detove, posle se pobolj\u0161ala, ali sveukupno je svaka slede\u0107a mi je sve slabija :( Wow, as a one off (although Vimes & Angua play a watching role), I was not expecting this to be one of my favorites, which it now totally is. Pratchett puts his own twist on the War Novel, a la Quiet on the Western Front or Storm of Steel, but with a very feminist angle. Or humanist. Although that doesn't totally apply to this book either since it's rough being a female vampire or Igor or troll too. In the basically failed nation of Borogravia, ruled by a (probably dead) Duchess, no one sees Wow, as a one off (although Vimes & Angua play a watching role), I was not expecting this to be one of my favorites, which it now totally is. Pratchett puts his own twist on the War Novel, a la Quiet on the Western Front or Storm of Steel, but with a very feminist angle. Or humanist. Although that doesn't totally apply to this book either since it's rough being a female vampire or Igor or troll too. In the basically failed nation of Borogravia, ruled by a (probably dead) Duchess, no one sees but prays to the ubiquitous pictures, under a nonsensical religious rule that seems to primarily punish women, with perpetual war to the point of famine, a final regiment is roused for the front. With the subject matter--Pratchett taking on misogyny, religion, and war, this is a darker book than most. He's never been afraid to tackle tough topics and there's a lot of this book that is deadly serious. \"So...what did you used to do back in the world?\" she said. Wazzer gave her a haunting smile. \"I used to be beaten.\" They are led by a man named Blouse, a chinless well-meaning file clerk, who is perpetually clueless but is much of a hero as the rest of them through the course of adventures. I loved the scenes where he insists on masquerading as a washerwoman into the enemy stronghold since he has the most experience being a woman (amateur theatrics back in boarding school). ...more My rating is a two-and-a-half, but leaning toward two if I have to choose. There were many parts of the book that I enjoyed. Even as I was taken off guard with some of the creepier characterizations (that lacked any sort of humorous spin, even darkly humorous), I was intrigued. But, there was a relatively small cast for the majority of the book (relative to the normal cast size), and very few appearances from older characters (which I admit I normally look for in Discworld novels introducing new My rating is a two-and-a-half, but leaning toward two if I have to choose. There were many parts of the book that I enjoyed. Even as I was taken off guard with some of the creepier characterizations (that lacked any sort of humorous spin, even darkly humorous), I was intrigued. But, there was a relatively small cast for the majority of the book (relative to the normal cast size), and very few appearances from older characters (which I admit I normally look for in Discworld novels introducing new characters). Keeping the spoilers to a min, I felt many of the ideas were pushed straight through \"interesting developments\" and \"ironic\" into \"trite/unlikely\". Like, oooh, \"he\" is really a \"she\"! And so is \"he\"! ...and so is \"he\"... Huh, and so is... The ending was anti-climatic. The main character comments on wondering if she should feel cheated by it, and as a reader, I wondered the same thing. The revelation at the end that could have made up for this (at least, to me the reader) was a little too much in the vein of triteness to stem my disappointment. I know this was written soon after Pratchett got the awful news, so I really, really did try to like it...but I would much rather read his other works. ...more The Discworld novels have always been wacky and irreverent, but after first reading Night Watch and now Monstrous Regiment , I think Mr. Pratchett has made a leap forward in how he constructs his stories. I'm not really sure what's changed - it just seems that his latest two books are less about the zany characters being thrown into peculiar and comedic situations, and more about the situations themselves. They feel more \"novelly,\" for lack of a better term. As Mr. Pratchett himself has reportedl The Discworld novels have always been wacky and irreverent, but after first reading Night Watch and now Monstrous Regiment , I think Mr. Pratchett has made a leap forward in how he constructs his stories. I'm not really sure what's changed - it just seems that his latest two books are less about the zany characters being thrown into peculiar and comedic situations, and more about the situations themselves. They feel more \"novelly,\" for lack of a better term. As Mr. Pratchett himself has reportedly said, he's stopped making his books jokey and started making them funny. And I wholeheartedly agree. That said, I have to say that the ending could've used some work for me. It sort of suffered from the \"too many endings\" syndrome I've seen in some movies lately - A.I. springs to mind, as does The Return of the King. Also (and this is hard to say without actually saying anything), it seems as though there are just a few too many so-called \"revelations\" in the end. Other than this complaint, and it's a fairly minor one, I can easily say that I liked Monstrous Regiment. ...more 100% more enjoyable than the only other Terry Pratchett book I've read and definitely good enough to persuade me to try some other of Pratchett's works in the future. It was very readable and fun. There were a lot of ladies in it and that was delightful and I've got to give Pratchett credit for writing women well . Because men so often fuck that up. But I didn't feel insulted or belittled when reaing it. A wonderful satire of our world and gender roles etc. It's never going to be my favourite genre 100% more enjoyable than the only other Terry Pratchett book I've read and definitely good enough to persuade me to try some other of Pratchett's works in the future. It was very readable and fun. There were a lot of ladies in it and that was delightful and I've got to give Pratchett credit for writing women well . Because men so often fuck that up. But I didn't feel insulted or belittled when reaing it. A wonderful satire of our world and gender roles etc. It's never going to be my favourite genre in the world, but it was a good read. ...more Just not my favorite book in the series. Something of a letdown after Night Watch. It is readable, fairly funny, and doesn't suffer from a lack of direction that some of the weaker Discworld books have. It just never pops for me. So far I've read 4 Discworld books and I rank them as follows: 1. Going Postal 2. Monstrous Regiment 3. Color of Magic 4. Light Fantastic Confession time: The first time I read Monstrous Regiment, when it was released in 2003, I didn't like it. As a big fan of the City Watch, I resented that we were teased with cameos from Vimes and Angua but we didn't see their characters evolve, and I thought the ending was too contrived. From the sidelines, I watched my fellow fans EXPLODE with love for the book and produce reams of fanart and fanfic, never participating myself. I made a mental note to maybe give it another go, but I never got Confession time: The first time I read Monstrous Regiment, when it was released in 2003, I didn't like it. As a big fan of the City Watch, I resented that we were teased with cameos from Vimes and Angua but we didn't see their characters evolve, and I thought the ending was too contrived. From the sidelines, I watched my fellow fans EXPLODE with love for the book and produce reams of fanart and fanfic, never participating myself. I made a mental note to maybe give it another go, but I never got around to it. Now eleven years later, in a fit of feminist fury, I bought the audio edition and listened over the span of a few days. Oh my god, this book is phenomenal. I think I read it at the wrong point in my life. In 2003, I'd just graduated from an all-girls' high school. I went to an all-girls' summer camp for a big chunk of my childhood, too. I was fed a steady diet of girl power propaganda, which was ultimately meaningless because I didn't really understand what it was like to live in a universe with men in it and feel lesser or unwelcome. I grew up with Female as default, and I was told I could have anything I wanted, because I wanted to be an engineer and the world was desperate for women engineers! Of course, one month into my first semester of my 90% male computer science major, when this book came out, my ego was busy being CRUSHED. I felt like everything I'd been promised was a lie, because the subject that had always come easy to me was kicking my butt, and I had no idea how to make friends to work and study with, making me even more useless. I don't know if I resented the book because it was too close to home, or if I was in denial about what I was experiencing, but now that I've grown and rebuilt my self image, I can fully appreciate this marvel of a book and the struggles Polly faces. It wasn't what I needed at 18, but it's exactly what I needed right now. And more than that, I feel like the universe has given me a gift. It's like discovering a gem from Pratchett's heyday for the first time. I love these characters. I love the world they discover and how they shape it. This book is GENIUS. I actually got a little teary explaining to my roommate about how meaningful the experience of rediscovering this book was. It's like my favorite author of the time reached forward into the future to write the book I needed when he was still in prime shape to write it. Thanks, Pterry. ...more \u201cEl enemigo no eran los hombres, ni las mujeres, ni los viejos, ni siquiera los muertos. Eran los putos est\u00fapidos, que ven\u00edan en todas las variedades. Y nadie ten\u00eda derecho a ser est\u00fapido\u201c Estoy vago y dejo deudas lectoras sin saldar, pero ahora que todo vuelve a la normalidad post-navide\u00f1a, es hora de volver a comentar Mundodisco. Esta vez lejos de Ankh-Morpork, como lectura de transici\u00f3n tras acabar con la saga de la guardia. Tangencialmente, tenemos tambi\u00e9n aqu\u00ed a Vimes (marc\u00e1ndose \u201cun Kennedy \u201cEl enemigo no eran los hombres, ni las mujeres, ni los viejos, ni siquiera los muertos. Eran los putos est\u00fapidos, que ven\u00edan en todas las variedades. Y nadie ten\u00eda derecho a ser est\u00fapido\u201c Estoy vago y dejo deudas lectoras sin saldar, pero ahora que todo vuelve a la normalidad post-navide\u00f1a, es hora de volver a comentar Mundodisco. Esta vez lejos de Ankh-Morpork, como lectura de transici\u00f3n tras acabar con la saga de la guardia. Tangencialmente, tenemos tambi\u00e9n aqu\u00ed a Vimes (marc\u00e1ndose \u201cun Kennedy\u201d en Borogravia en vez de en Berlin), pero es u extra en esta novela independiente de sagas, (aunque este dentro de una). Estamos en una guerra de un peque\u00f1o y enloquecido pa\u00eds, que lleva mucho tiempo en guerras con sus vecinos. Pero est\u00e1n por perder, sin futuro y casi ya sin hombres que mandar a soldadear. Y si no hay hombres, pues ser\u00e1 una mujer la que sea nuestra protagonista. Polly se alista en el ejercito para ir en busca de su hermano, y como seria una abominaci\u00f3n contra su loco dios que una mujer fuera soldado, se hace pasar por hombre. Que se puede decir a estas alturas de Pratchett, pues ya no lo se, aparte de que sigue repartiendo sin cuartel, a todo el mundo sin distinci\u00f3n, pues aunque alguien quiera caer en la categorizaci\u00f3n de que esta es un novela feminista o antimilitarista, realmente (y aunque lo sea)\u2026 no lo es, porque al fin y al cabo \u201cel problema son los putos est\u00fapidos\u201d y la estupidez es universal. Ya sab\u00e9is, Pratchett en estado puro. Y si este tipo era un genio, no es porque me haga querer a personajes imposiblemente humanos que sigues a lo largo de miles de paginas, sino porque te presenta unos nuevos y es capaz con dos lineas (o una) de hacerte rozar la lagrimilla.. y si que soy un mo\u00f1as en realidad, pero creo que es mas que eso y es mas merito suyo que \u201cdefecto\u201d mio. Como detalle extra, el gui\u00f1o que le hace a este libro el bueno de Sherlock en el especial navide\u00f1o al pensar t\u00edtulos para la historia que protagoniza. \u201cLos besos no duran\u201d ...more I love all of the Discworld series. Terry Pratchett makes serious points about life, the universe and everything through the creation of a totally believable parallel universe. He comes across as a man of great integrity who yet never becomes preachy, but laugh-out-loud funny! My particular favourites in the series are the books featuring the witches and those featuring the City Watch. 'Monstrous regiment' follows the fortunes of Polly, who joins the army disguised as a boy. Pratchett neatly sid I love all of the Discworld series. Terry Pratchett makes serious points about life, the universe and everything through the creation of a totally believable parallel universe. He comes across as a man of great integrity who yet never becomes preachy, but laugh-out-loud funny! My particular favourites in the series are the books featuring the witches and those featuring the City Watch. 'Monstrous regiment' follows the fortunes of Polly, who joins the army disguised as a boy. Pratchett neatly sidesteps the trap of creating a \"war is hell\" homily, instead giving us an extremely funny look at women in a man's world. On the way, he pastiches the angst of the Vietnam films and I'm sure it is no coincidence that the book spotlights a country which just can't seem to stop from picking fights with all its neighbours. Even if you don't agree with him, he will make you think. And he will make you laugh, which is the most important part. He also touches on gender and religious issues, all in one book. The fact that he's able to make interesting points without using a scattershot approach says something about Pratchett's writing. ...more At the end of Monstrous Regiment I had that feeling you get when you reach the end of a good book and it comes to a conclusion you admire and one that is not too easy. One that hints that this is only the beginning and it was a brilliant one. Twists, turns and a few pantomime-worthy moments. I'm not sure how a reader, unfamiliar with the Discworld, would take the novel but it's a book I'd recommend wholeheartedly. I want to read it again already. It's the little things, the birds and the 'Oh, Su At the end of Monstrous Regiment I had that feeling you get when you reach the end of a good book and it comes to a conclusion you admire and one that is not too easy. One that hints that this is only the beginning and it was a brilliant one. Twists, turns and a few pantomime-worthy moments. I'm not sure how a reader, unfamiliar with the Discworld, would take the novel but it's a book I'd recommend wholeheartedly. I want to read it again already. It's the little things, the birds and the 'Oh, Sugar!' and the little subtle digs. As a woman, it's fantastic and funny to read a book which is a little more girl power than expected and the appearance of Sam Vimes is always welcome. From reading Sharpe as well, it's hard not to put it in that context and then have all expectations turned around. \"And someone with no sense of the narrative of adventure had removed from the room anything with an edge...\" That, as well as migrating socks down a trouser-leg (and the whole existence of socks) was wonderful. Maladict sucking on a large bag of coffee beans was also a highlight. ...more WOW. I needed this. And I gotta admit I got kinda Tearful Female a few times toward the end. From the inside cover blurb: \"In war -- as in life -- sometimes the best man for the job is a woman.\" This book was my first in the Discworld series, and it was hilarious, witty, and oh-so-smart. I loved Polly, especially her repartee with Jackrum. The end was unexpected (though maybe I should have seen it coming?), and thoroughly enjoyable. Blouse was also fun to read; he is so obtuse that I couldn't stop myself from groaning and/or giggling audibly at some of his finest moments. This book is sa From the inside cover blurb: \"In war -- as in life -- sometimes the best man for the job is a woman.\" This book was my first in the Discworld series, and it was hilarious, witty, and oh-so-smart. I loved Polly, especially her repartee with Jackrum. The end was unexpected (though maybe I should have seen it coming?), and thoroughly enjoyable. Blouse was also fun to read; he is so obtuse that I couldn't stop myself from groaning and/or giggling audibly at some of his finest moments. This book is satire at its finest, though it is a little disheartening how much of Borogravia can be seen in the real world. ...more Not as laugh out loud funny as some of Terry Pratchett's other novels, but still enjoyable. When all the men are at war for reasons only the gods know (and imprisoned, injured, or dead), what are the women supposed to do? Sit back and let the enemy invade? Polly doesn't think so, and doesn't care that her religion declares that women dressing up as men is an Abomination. She's on a mission to find her brother. She soon discovers she's not the only one with a secret pair of socks. This book is Te Not as laugh out loud funny as some of Terry Pratchett's other novels, but still enjoyable. When all the men are at war for reasons only the gods know (and imprisoned, injured, or dead), what are the women supposed to do? Sit back and let the enemy invade? Polly doesn't think so, and doesn't care that her religion declares that women dressing up as men is an Abomination. She's on a mission to find her brother. She soon discovers she's not the only one with a secret pair of socks. This book is Terry Pratchett's take on gender politics, and I think it's worth reading. ...more There was a book, once upon a time, called the First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstruous Regiment of Women, written by an anti-Catholic writer who was really offended that there were several Catholic queens out there. If he\u2019d taken a slightly different tact, his life might have been better when Good Queen Elizabeth took one of those thrones, but so it goes. I did not like this book much the first time I read it. I disliked the misogynistic duchy of Borogravia far too much to understand There was a book, once upon a time, called the First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstruous Regiment of Women, written by an anti-Catholic writer who was really offended that there were several Catholic queens out there. If he\u2019d taken a slightly different tact, his life might have been better when Good Queen Elizabeth took one of those thrones, but so it goes. I did not like this book much the first time I read it. I disliked the misogynistic duchy of Borogravia far too much to understand why our sweet Polly/Oliver was fighting for it, let alone all the other women pretending to be men so that they could fight for a people who considered such things an Abomination unto Nuggan (their dead god). The Big Reveal that it was pretty much all women doing the fighting now was too frustratingly on the nose; the patriarchy persists because women by the myth it\u2019s selling, I get it. Reading it as a grown up (well, more grown up) I have more sympathy. Every day there\u2019s something better to do than to change your people on the level of their basic myths, especially when challenging these things can get you beaten or worse. Every day there\u2019s something better to do than to figure out if you want to worship a god who announces crop rotation or the color blue is an abomination. Every day there\u2019s something better to do. I\u2019m part of everything I indict, blah blah blah. Speaking of being part of everything I indict, reading it now, I\u2019m touched at how optimistic it is about rebuilding a country that ripped itself apart over a ridiculous war. And how random the world\u2019s attention was. If the Clack\u2019s Towers in Borogrovia hadn\u2019t been burned down as an Abomination unto Nuggin, Ankh-Morpork probably wouldn\u2019t have been interested enough to send an army. If it hadn\u2019t sent an army, Ankh-Morpork\u2019s newspaper probably wouldn\u2019t have sent reporters and photographers. If Ankh-Morpork\u2019s newspaper hadn\u2019t sent a reporter, the story of sweet Polly/Oliver kicking a prince in the socks probably wouldn\u2019t have been picked up. If that story hadn\u2019t been picked up, then the peace deal might not have been negotiated under the watchful eye of the Duke of Ankh-Morpork, who enjoys royalty getting kicked in the socks. Well worth the re-read. I regret that we will not see Polly/Oliver again in Pratchett\u2019s books. ...more", "Title": "Monstrous Regiment"},
