{"Comments": "I honestly didn't think Butcher could write a better <---C>Harry Dresden</---C> book than Dead Beat.<---F> Boy, was I wrong</---F>. ***** Big. Fat. Spoiler. Alert. Don't read any more until you've read the book. ***** If I may speak of this from a personal perspective, I have done the same thing with the Kate Shugak series that <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> has now done in <+++>Changes</+++>. I took her job away,<---M> albeit off stage</---M>, I killed her lover, I burned down her house. But in <+++>Changes</+++> Butcher does it all in one book, in 438 pages he strips Harry to I honestly didn't think Butcher could write a better Harry Dresden book than Dead Beat. Boy, was I wrong. ***** Big. Fat. Spoiler. Alert. Don't read any more until you've read the book. ***** If I may speak of this from a personal perspective, I have done the same thing with the Kate Shugak series that Jim Butcher has now done in Changes. I took her job away, albeit off stage, I killed her lover, I burned down her house. But in Changes Butcher does it all in one book, in 438 pages he strips Harry to the bone, divesting him of every possession, including his soul. And then on the last page he kills him. Except the oncoming train tells me he hasn't. And also because I went hotfoot to his website to be reassured that Butcher is still saying there are twenty books in the series and this is only number 12. My heart failed me too many times to mention, in steadily increasing palpitations. When Harry's office exploded, not so much, he hadn't been there in a while. When the Blue Beetle got squished beyond all hope of resurrection. When his house burned down and took his lab with it. When he broke his back. When he slaughtered the Winter Knight, I actually cried out \"No, Harry, no!\" What will Mab do to him? It's all very well for Ebenezer (Harry's grandfather! It all makes so much more sense now! Jesus, how far ahead does Butcher plot out these novels?) to say that Harry will always be able to choose, but Harry sold himself to Mab in exchange for healing and power, and he killed, deliberately, to get them. That's a bill I'm not sure he can pay. When Butters got shot. And then Harry kills Susan, the one woman he has ever loved, to save their daughter and put an end to the Red Court. He gives Harry a daughter, and then he takes her away. And then that horrible, wonderful bait-and-switch with Karrin at the end. Wow. There are so many great, great scenes, but let me just single out a few. The Grey Council arriving in the nick of time, when we finally get to see Blackstaff at work. \"I got another one.\" And Karrin with Fidelacchius. The great rif on the Fellowship of the Ring. (I will say I knew Martin was the rift within the lute, he was too impervious to injury. But I didn't see coming what the soul gaze he exchanges with Harry at the end reveals. But of course it fits, perfectly.) The best part of this book is that Butcher waited this long to write it, to give us 11 previous chapters in Harry's life, giving us that much lead time to become completely invested in his character. We feel every hit Harry takes like it's aimed at us personally. Incredibly well done, and leaving the reader wondering how the hell Harry's going to come back from this, and if he'll still be our Harry when he does. What a great place to leave us. Bravo!! ...more Okay, full disclosure I love the Dresden books. If you have read my reviews of them you know this. This one is no exception and is possibly the best so far. I can't say much about the book's storyline without spoilers, but there are parts of the story...threads if you will, that have been running through the other volumes more or less underneath other \"Main story lines\". (These books can really make you rethink the concept of a \"fairy godmother\" for instance) A lot of these come to culmination h Okay, full disclosure I love the Dresden books. If you have read my reviews of them you know this. This one is no exception and is possibly the best so far. I can't say much about the book's storyline without spoilers, but there are parts of the story...threads if you will, that have been running through the other volumes more or less underneath other \"Main story lines\". (These books can really make you rethink the concept of a \"fairy godmother\" for instance) A lot of these come to culmination here. Other things....don't. The book is well written and structured, the character which (many of us have followed since his first novel if not his first appearance) has grown along lines that the story laid out. The stories/story and Harry have been true to themselves. The ending here is of a type that Butcher hasn't used in the Dresden novels before...I can't say more other than it's a sort of \"non-resolution\" ending. (Can anyone say \"cliffhanger\"?) This book is one of those that people like to call a \"page turner\" or possibly a \"thrill ride\". Start it when you can afford to sit up late and finish it...I finished it at 3:00AM this morning. Now I just have to get by till Ghost Story is published. ...more At first, I wasn't too sure the title was going to work out well. I couldn't think of it without David Bowie stuttering it in my head, and that didn't mix well with Harry Dresden\u2014especially since we see him on the cover turning to face the strange ch-ch-changes. But as I read along, it became clear that this book couldn't possibly be named anything else. Harry has to deal with many changes to his life in this book, and one of the decisions he makes is going to have far-reaching consequences and At first, I wasn't too sure the title was going to work out well. I couldn't think of it without David Bowie stuttering it in my head, and that didn't mix well with Harry Dresden\u2014especially since we see him on the cover turning to face the strange ch-ch-changes. But as I read along, it became clear that this book couldn't possibly be named anything else. Harry has to deal with many changes to his life in this book, and one of the decisions he makes is going to have far-reaching consequences and potentially take the series in a new direction. I don't wish to give anything away because that's just not fair, but Jim Butcher has upset Harry's apple cart in terms of personal relationships and domestic arrangements and well, pretty much everything. He's injected new life into the series while still giving us what we've come to expect\u2014lots of action and quite a few moments of humor. In terms of entertainment Butcher always gives you your money's worth, but he's outdone himself in this installment. ...more Holy F- balls, this book just made my all-time favorites list. My heart? Through the ringer. My nerves? Shot. My mind? Blown. This was me through the entire beautiful, horrible, intense, emotional, perfectly narrated audiobook: Twists and turns like never before. Get ready for the ride of your life. And that cliffhanger ending... just gut me now. Perfection. In the space of a phone call, Harry Dresden learns he has a daughter with Susan Rodriguez and that she's been kidnapped by the Red Court of vampires. The vampires are setting up a bloodline curse that will kill the child and everyone related to her. Meanwhile, the White Council of wizards seems to be buddying up with the Red Court to put an end to the war between the wizards and the vampires. Can Harry save his daughter and stop the bloodline curse? I have mixed feelings about this one. Pros: As u In the space of a phone call, Harry Dresden learns he has a daughter with Susan Rodriguez and that she's been kidnapped by the Red Court of vampires. The vampires are setting up a bloodline curse that will kill the child and everyone related to her. Meanwhile, the White Council of wizards seems to be buddying up with the Red Court to put an end to the war between the wizards and the vampires. Can Harry save his daughter and stop the bloodline curse? I have mixed feelings about this one. Pros: As usual, Jim Butcher delivers all the thrills of a summer blockbuster. Big explosions, action, a touch of comedy. The showdown with the Red Court would look great on the screen. Old favorites like Sanya and Susan Rodriguez make return appearances. Forgotten plot elements like the holy swords are finally used. There's even some closure to one of the long-running plot lines and new plot lines are set up. Cons: While I liked Changes and found it entertaining, I wouldn't say I thought it was great. The same things that bothers me about summer blockbusters bother me about this book. Everyone has stupid smart ass quips for every situation. When in the middle of a city of thousands of vampires, shouldn't at least one person maybe BE SCARED OF THE VAMPIRES rather than making inane \"witty\" remarks? Most of the story was fairly formulaic for the series, almost as if Butcher took the outline for one of the earlier books, changed some names and places, and started writing this one. Even though I'm glad the vampire plot line went the way it did, how much more of a Mary Sue can Harry Dresden be? Another thing that bothered me is that the ongoing plot about strife within the White Council didn't advance one inch. I think Butcher is going to milk his cash cow for all it's worth, considering he's already got the titles listed for books that come out in seven years on his Wikipedia page! The ending was a cliff hanger after a cruel tease. Conclusion: While I enjoyed Changes as much as I enjoy most Harry Dresden books, they are like the Cadbury Creme Eggs. While I like them when they're in stores around Easter, I'm glad when they're gone and I get a year to let the memories fade so I can enjoy them again the following year. See you in 365 days, Jim Butcher! ...more I'm feeling quite happy, fresh from reading Changes. Had I read it faster, I would have given it less than 4 stars. So who knows, if I'd read it slower, maybe I'd have rated it a perfect five. But I feel that though I can't ignore the flaws of Dresden's episodic epics, I realize that for a book that provides so much fun, it's okay for part of it to be mindless. Harry returns in his 12th novel discovering through his old flame that he has a daughter. Along the way he avoids assassination attempts and hostile supernatural creatures in order to save the child. For those who have enjoyed the most recent two books it's more of the same old same old though I find the style diverting from the original first six or so novels. Harry gets into jam after jam and even though they get bigger and bigger it's gotten to the point where it's getting stale. True, the ol Harry returns in his 12th novel discovering through his old flame that he has a daughter. Along the way he avoids assassination attempts and hostile supernatural creatures in order to save the child. For those who have enjoyed the most recent two books it's more of the same old same old though I find the style diverting from the original first six or so novels. Harry gets into jam after jam and even though they get bigger and bigger it's gotten to the point where it's getting stale. True, the older novels were like that as well but it felt Harry was at least in more danger. These days he's so powerful and has so many allies that the question is almost jocular in how he's going to get out of it as we laugh and tag along. Writing style in the last few novels has bothered me the most. Too many characters snort in reply or cross their arms. Butcher spends more time in trying to write things he's not so good at and it makes me wince. I think Butcher's strengths have always been in his ideas and the plotting of those ideas and the writing style has always been a few notches down, especially when he deals with the love issues or \"wise talk\". Lately, the quality has dropped in both so it feels like he's rushing things in order to meet deadlines. [image error] /> (view spoiler) [ SPOILERS: I think Harry's execution of Susan to save his daughter and wipe out the Red Court was a nice touch. Some will argue that it goes against the Harry they knew but I'm okay with it and feel it might be a good choice. Harry has always had a need to experience family so I can see him doing something as he did and let's face it: Susan wasn't exactly the better choice. (hide spoiler) ] It's unlikely I'll continue with this series as I had reservations with the previous novel and had to struggle through this one just to finish it. That said, I think Harry will be in good hands as this was on the NY Times Best Seller List and the loss of a few readers won't affect the author economically. WRITING STYLE: C to C plus; PLOTTING: B minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: C plus to B minus; CHANGES/CHOICES: B minus; WHEN READ: December to January 2012 (revised review early August 2012); OVERALL GRADE: C plus to B minus. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Wow! I'll say it again, WOW!! Book 12 of the Dresden Files is the best one yet. I don't even know what I can say without giving it away. READ THIS BOOK!!!! 4/29/30 Okay, time to try to write an actual review. Warning!!!! May contain spoilers. Harry gets a call from his old girlfriend Susan Rodriguez. \"They've taken our little girl.\" Harry pauses for 5 seconds and then, \"Um, what?\" For those who've read about Harry in the past you know this hit him like a nuclear explosion. He's an orphan. He has def Wow! I'll say it again, WOW!! Book 12 of the Dresden Files is the best one yet. I don't even know what I can say without giving it away. READ THIS BOOK!!!! 4/29/30 Okay, time to try to write an actual review. Warning!!!! May contain spoilers. Harry gets a call from his old girlfriend Susan Rodriguez. \"They've taken our little girl.\" Harry pauses for 5 seconds and then, \"Um, what?\" For those who've read about Harry in the past you know this hit him like a nuclear explosion. He's an orphan. He has definite ideas about being there for family. He has a daughter and Susan didn't tell him?! She's been taken by the Red Court Vampires? Hmmmm Bad day to be in the Red Court! Harry is willing to compromise all of his values and even his own soul to save his daughter. One of my favorite lines of the book comes when he is talking to Ebenezer McCoy his one-time mentor. \"I understand Harry, your little girl is in trouble and you want to be there for her.\" \"Not want to be\", I said quietly, \"going to be\". That sums it up for me. Come hell, highwater, vampires or demi-gods. Harry will be there when his little girl needs him. All of the wit, sarcasm, action, plot twists and plain old excellent writing you expect from Jim Butcher is there in spades... just more so. Changes is an excellent title for this book. Nothing remains the same when it's done. Karrin Murphy no longer a cop? The Red Court destroyed in it's entirety, down to the very last member? Harry now the Winter Knight? Harry's apartment burned down and his office blown up? Harry shot and drowning in the lake? Sonofa.... man... when's the next book coming out??? ...more Yup. That about sums it up. Holy craptoid this book was intense. I know that I said that I found Turn Coat to be predictable, but Changes was anything but. It started off with a Whopper and then added jalapenos and Sriracha and some pickled habaneros and holy shit is this going to be regrettable later. I never knew where this was going to go next, and each time another explosive ingredient was added, my intestines clenched. And on top of that, this book was surprisingly emotional as well. EVERYTH Yup. That about sums it up. Holy craptoid this book was intense. I know that I said that I found Turn Coat to be predictable, but Changes was anything but. It started off with a Whopper and then added jalapenos and Sriracha and some pickled habaneros and holy shit is this going to be regrettable later. I never knew where this was going to go next, and each time another explosive ingredient was added, my intestines clenched. And on top of that, this book was surprisingly emotional as well. EVERYTHING changes and many things are lost for good. Harry makes choices that I was sure NOTHING would ever cause him to make, and rather than losing respect for him for these choices, I have even more because after 11 prior books and several short stories, it's perfectly clear how dire things would need to be in Harry's view in order to lead to that point. And for him, it was. And it was heartbreaking. I had no trouble at all accepting Harry's reaction to the bomb that was dropped on him regarding Maggie. Though I did think that anyone else would have been there for the wrong (selfish) reasons, but not Harry. He went from zero to Super-Dad in 0.006 seconds. And it made sense. In the very first Dresden story, the short that comes before Storm Front even, we see him go to the wall for a little girl he doesn't know who has no ties to him in any way, so of course for family he'd go through the wall and demolish the house and the ground it's sitting on if necessary. Whatever he needs to do. And though my intestines were clenched, I loved and dreaded every minute of it. I really liked the Red Court/Maya correlation, and I think it makes perfect sense. That's probably what really happened. Yes. So. Changes. Wow. Awesomeness, and I can't wait to see where it goes from here. ...more 7/10 Ch-ch-changes Just gonna have to be a different man Time may change me But I can't trace time David Bowie I merely put this in my review as I couldn't pick this book up without singing this classic song in my head and some of the lyrics are mildly relevant I suppose. This isn't a review and more ramblings as I can't work out my feelings on this one. I found this one difficult to rate to be honest, so much happens in this one but I just didn't get totally invested in the story. I think I like the 7/10 Ch-ch-changes Just gonna have to be a different man Time may change me But I can't trace time David Bowie I merely put this in my review as I couldn't pick this book up without singing this classic song in my head and some of the lyrics are mildly relevant I suppose. This isn't a review and more ramblings as I can't work out my feelings on this one. I found this one difficult to rate to be honest, so much happens in this one but I just didn't get totally invested in the story. I think I like the series the most when Harry is PI'ing and working out some mystery and not being some sort of all powerful wizard in an alternate universe which is what happens in this one. Loads happens, within the first few pages a massive reveal happens which changes the whole of Harrys outlook on things and shapes his future and the plot of this book. From there it does what it says on the tin, changes. Things from the series that I've come to enjoy either get destroyed or torn to shreds making this entry a little like a climax to a mini arc and leading into a reboot for future novels. The ending leaves on a massive cliffhanger meaning I'm unsure on how the series is going to progress but I'm hoping not too much changes in the future novels but then again, how can't it? At least I don't have to wait long to find out. ...more Forget about book cover blurbs including spoilers \u2013 this story has the spoiler tied up in it\u2019s one word title - Changes. From the very first sentence we get hit with a jaw dropping revelation that will see Harry propelled into a quest to save the single most important thing in his life. And the lengths he is prepared to go to preserve that which he loves most will see him undergo a metamorphosis that left me in shock. You know how Harry is always fighting the temptation to access powers that wil Forget about book cover blurbs including spoilers \u2013 this story has the spoiler tied up in it\u2019s one word title - Changes. From the very first sentence we get hit with a jaw dropping revelation that will see Harry propelled into a quest to save the single most important thing in his life. And the lengths he is prepared to go to preserve that which he loves most will see him undergo a metamorphosis that left me in shock. You know how Harry is always fighting the temptation to access powers that will see him tied to certain creatures or that might see him corrupted in some way? And you know how Harry always contemplates whether he would be able to hang off if the situation was desperate enough? Well this book he goes there. It left me with some mixed feelings. On the one hand I\u2019m going \u2013 nooooo....Harry, not that! You always said....- but the other half of me is going Booyah! \u2013 because Harry levels up, gains extra power ups, with extra skill points in badassery! Again, James Marsters does a superb job as the audio narrator \u2013 which leaves me in a bit of trepidation for the next book which features a different audio narrator. I had a listen to the sample on Audible and I\u2019m not happy. That\u2019s not Harry! I\u2019m contemplating reading the next one on the kindle instead. Thankfully, Penguin Audio recovered from it\u2019s brain lock moment and brought Marsters back for the book after. It\u2019s easy to see why a lot of Dresden fans cite this as one of their favourites. There has been a lot of build up through the series to bring us to this point which sees what I expect to be some very pivotal changes(there\u2019s that word again) for the series. The Dresden after this book is not going to be the same Dresden we've seen before I think. Dresden has just gone Nuclear and it\u2019s hard to see how Butcher is going to top Harry\u2019s growing legend. Still, I\u2019m very much looking forward to see how Harry\u2019s decisions here will play out over the rest of the series \u2013 especially after the very end of this book, after I thought the story was done and dusted, where Butcher throws us another major curve ball which is probably even bigger than what we've seen so far. Once I recover from psychological damage of multiple shock moments \u2013 I\u2019ll probably put this down as my favourite Dresden so far. 4 + stars ...more That was amazing, the best yet. Changes was absolutely the right name for this book. Non stop action from beginning to end. Everything, I mean absolutely EVERYTHING got changed up in this book. I can't imagine how the next book is going to look This volume also makes me realise how far Harry Dresden has come as a wizard since we first met him. If I had the time I'd even be tempted to go back and re read the whole series up to now. This is one of the best urban fantasy series out there. Another fantastic Dresden file! The ending though... So glad I can pick up the next immediately! Possibly the Best in the Series- 5 Stars Wow! What a ride. Once again I am amazed at how Jim Butcher manages to make Harry Dresden more interesting as the series progresses. The name of the book foreshadows the events in the novel and presumably foreshadows changes in future book. This is the most epic of Harry's adventures. Without giving anything away, what Harry manages to do is historic, even by Wizard standards. It will be interesting to see where Butcher takes the series from here. Hone Possibly the Best in the Series- 5 Stars Wow! What a ride. Once again I am amazed at how Jim Butcher manages to make Harry Dresden more interesting as the series progresses. The name of the book foreshadows the events in the novel and presumably foreshadows changes in future book. This is the most epic of Harry's adventures. Without giving anything away, what Harry manages to do is historic, even by Wizard standards. It will be interesting to see where Butcher takes the series from here. Honestly, this book had a feeling of finality and could have easily been the final book in the series. I don't yet know what Butcher has in store for future novels but it better be good. Plot summary Within the first couple of pages we learn that Harry has a daughter by his former, yellow rag now half vampire ex-girlfriend, Susan Rodriguez. The child has been taken by Red Court Vampires and her life in in jeopardy. When it becomes apparent that Harry will not receive help from the traditional sources, he gathers help from some non traditional one. This installment has Harry doing some globetrotting and fighting some vampires, an ick, goblins and a lot more vampires. There are some big reveals and some big changes for Harry and other characters. The Good Once you Start... Butcher hardly lets off the gas on this one. While Harry usually has the odds stacked against him, the odds are even worse this time around. He is forced to call in help from different sources than in other novels. Harry is required to make choices that he may regret in the future and are choices he would not have made earlier in the series. Harry comes off as more human in this novel as he is driven by a love for a child he has never met. There is excitement, new magic, backstabbing, double crossing and a Harry Dresden version of Helm's deep. This probably the most exciting of the Dresden Novels Gold Star for Creativity Butcher makes some bold choices in plot development. The choices are fraught with potential problems for the future of the series but they make for an interesting storyline. I like that he mixes it up in the book and I am excited to see where it goes. Final Thoughts Overall, the book is one of the best, if the best in the series. Given that this is book 12, I think that says something about the strength of the series. It will be interesting to see where the series goes from here. Content Advisories It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested. I make an effort to give you the information so you can make an informed decision before reading. *Disclaimer* I do not take note or count the occurrences of adult language as I read. I am simply giving approximations. Scale 1 - Lowest 5 - Highest Sex - 2.5 There is some sexual tension. Two parties nearly engage in sexual activity but stop before it gets out of hand. There is some sexual innuendo at the end but nothing comes of it. Language - 3.5 Adult language has been on the rise in the last few. This had low to moderate use of mild obscenities but there is more use of the f-word than in in previous installments. Violence - 4 As usual, many monsters dies. There is major battle with thousands of vampires. You can guess there will be a lot of death. There is a what is akin to a \"cage fight\" and it is fairly violent. The violence is persistent but tends to not be gory in nature. ...more \"Laugh whenever you can. Keeps you from killing yourself when things are bad. That and vodka.\" I need vodka for this review! I mean, I wanted some shake-up in this world but What-The-F*ck???? Jim Butcher??? It's like he decided to just burn the whole house down just for the hell of it. there may be casualties, but I'm willing to let others pay that price... I mean, sure, it was fun! When isn't it fun to watch things burn? Who doesn't like to throw things from a tall building just to see them sma \"Laugh whenever you can. Keeps you from killing yourself when things are bad. That and vodka.\" I need vodka for this review! I mean, I wanted some shake-up in this world but What-The-F*ck???? Jim Butcher??? It's like he decided to just burn the whole house down just for the hell of it. there may be casualties, but I'm willing to let others pay that price... I mean, sure, it was fun! When isn't it fun to watch things burn? Who doesn't like to throw things from a tall building just to see them smash into little pieces? liars In other words, everything went to hell in this book, and there was no handbasket to be found. Harry finds out he has a daughter that his bitch of an ex-girlfriend decided not to tell him about. For FIVE years. Is that because she wanted to raise her alone, without Harry's involvement? Nooooooo! As a matter of fact, she decided to give the kid away, to a family, without Harry's consent or knowledge. She claims it was to keep the kid safe. Well, big surprise - the kid wasn't safe, but instead the family is slaughtered and the kid is kidnapped by the vampires to use in a ritual killing. Suddenly, Susan, the bitch, decides that Harry should get involved in his daughter's life. Suddenly, it's his responsibility to save HIS daughter. OOOOOOOHHH, now she's his kid, huh? How convenient! I know, right? She really is a bitch! (this is how I really feel) So, Harry is faced with an impossible situation again. But, this time it really is impossible. Like, he literally cannot take on these enemies and live through it. And, he hasn't got enough allies to help him either. So, he has to make some tough choices in order to get enough power to save his daughter. These choices will affect the rest of his life - no matter how short it may be. Let's just say that things get very very messy for poor Harry. He's always been a loser, of sorts, but this time.... ugh.... Lots of death. Lots of destruction. And, lots of bad things that there is no coming back from. Also, a cliffhanger that is so awful that I'm surprised that Jim Butcher himself survived to write the next book. He really is a sadistic fuck. I didn't say I don't like sadistic fucks... ...more I am a diehard Dresden Files fan, and with each successive book, I've gone in expecting to be thoroughly entertained. This time around I was not. I was absolutely mindblown . Jim Butcher knew what he was doing when he titled this book. From the very first sentence, everything you think you know about Harry Dresden, all the people he knows and loves, and the world in which he operates is turned completely on its ear. The biggest of these changes was revealed on Jim's own site, so I will go so far as I am a diehard Dresden Files fan, and with each successive book, I've gone in expecting to be thoroughly entertained. This time around I was not. I was absolutely mindblown . Jim Butcher knew what he was doing when he titled this book. From the very first sentence, everything you think you know about Harry Dresden, all the people he knows and loves, and the world in which he operates is turned completely on its ear. The biggest of these changes was revealed on Jim's own site, so I will go so far as to say that yeah, revealing that Harry has a small daughter he never knew about? WHOA. But that's only just the beginning. Sure, it's an earth-shattering revelation for Harry, but the fact that it's a daughter by Susan, the long-lost lover who'd left him to go to South America and fight the vampire transformation that's been enforced upon her, is only the first of a one-two punch. The other blow? The kid's been taken by the Red Court vampires. And she's going to be sacrificed. I have to admit that I was deeply leery of the idea of setting Harry up with a kid. He's matured a lot through the course of the series, and the Harry of this book is absolutely better father material than the Harry of the initial books would have been. That said? Harry also lives an extremely dangerous life , one which is not suited under any circumstances to caring for a small child. But I needn't have worried. Jim handles everything pertaining to the kid quite believably, including what eventually happens to her. If anything, my only beef about her at all is that little Maggie is barely an actual character presence in the story; she's way more of a MacGuffin than she is a member of the cast. And. And. And. Really, this book's way less about Harry going \"ZOMG I'M A FATHER\" (though don't get me wrong, it's absolutely about that) than it is about how Harry's determination to save his little girl lays unutterable waste to everything about his life. And I do mean everything . Long time fans of the series, you better be prepared to have all of the little signature details you've come to know and love about what makes Harry Harry to be blown to kingdom come. And be prepared for a cliffhanger, because Jim Butcher is a cliffhanger-writing BASTARD. Hopefully he won't actually be making a habit of this--hopefully this'll just be a feature of the fact that this is the midpoint of the series. But I can forgive him the cliffhanger just because this is hands down the best novel he's written yet. The writing is flawless, and Butcher's got his sense of pacing down to a finely honed art by now; in the big climactic battle sequence, I had that thrilling \"MUST! READ! NEXT! PARAGRAPH!\" urgency that comes with truly epic adventure. Five very, very well deserved stars. ...more Initial thoughts (see below for review): WHAT. THE. FUCK!!!!! I couldn't put this down!!! So much happened!!! Wow. Best book in the series so far!!! Review to come. Review: Actual rating: A five plus star book!! No story spoilers. This is going to be a tough one to write. I've been reading this series since 2006. I've obviously slowly picked my way through these books. Sometimes it was because while I was into the series, I wouldn't have the push or desire to pick up the next book. Sometimes it Initial thoughts (see below for review): WHAT. THE. FUCK!!!!! I couldn't put this down!!! So much happened!!! Wow. Best book in the series so far!!! Review to come. Review: Actual rating: A five plus star book!! No story spoilers. This is going to be a tough one to write. I've been reading this series since 2006. I've obviously slowly picked my way through these books. Sometimes it was because while I was into the series, I wouldn't have the push or desire to pick up the next book. Sometimes it was because I had way too many books I wanted to read. Sometimes it was because I just couldn't handle seeing Harry hurt anymore. This book was a really serious emotional roller coaster. As always, each book we see Harry grow just that much more. We also watch him experience some serious feats, and get pretty beat up in the course of it. This one was no different. I'd have to say that this one beat Harry up more physically and emotionally than he has to date. I've always loved Susan... (view spoiler) [ and I've always loved Harry and Susan together as a couple. (hide spoiler) ] I'm not quite sure how I feel about what she did in this book. I don't know if I'm mad at her, or if I understand her. The very first page in this book had my mouth dropping open. There's never a dull moment in Harry's world, and this book is no exception to that. I'm curious to see how certain events that transpired in this book play out. It feels like this book has set the stage for plot lines that will take many books to come to fruition. I understand why Harry chose to do what he did, but I'm not sure I'm going to like where this will take him. In any event, this is the first book in this series that is making it onto my favorites list!!! So that should tell you how much I thoroughly enjoyed this one!!! And that ending... [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Executive Summary: If you've been enjoying yourself to this point in the series, you should really love this book as much as I do. It's definitely the best book of the series so far. Audio book: James Marsters seems to approach each book like a 1 man show now. He has distinct voices for all the major parts, and even most of the minor ones. It seems like he enjoys reading them as much as I do, and that comes through. Full Review I had originally reviewed this book on Living Social's Virtual Booksh Executive Summary: If you've been enjoying yourself to this point in the series, you should really love this book as much as I do. It's definitely the best book of the series so far. Audio book: James Marsters seems to approach each book like a 1 man show now. He has distinct voices for all the major parts, and even most of the minor ones. It seems like he enjoys reading them as much as I do, and that comes through. Full Review I had originally reviewed this book on Living Social's Virtual Bookshelf for Facebook when it first came out. That review got imported here, but it didn't really do it justice in my opinion, so I scrapped it and started over again. I could go on rambling for paragraphs about how much I love this series, and how great this book, but I'll try to keep things concise. While I was in the process of re-reading this book, I was really surprised to see there are negative reviews for it. Not only that, but the top review Good Read shows is a 2 star rating. I had to read it, and find out why. The criticism is fair. But it could easily be applied to the previous ELEVEN books in the series. I get that this series won't be for everyone, but why have you read 12 books if you just don't think it's that good? Oh well people are entitled to their opinions. I have a guilty pleasure for bad movies, especially martial arts movies. The quality of these books are much better than that in my view, but at it's core it's the equivalent of a popcorn flick. They are a great interlude for some of the heavier stuff I stuff I've been reading, especially among the rise of all the grimdark fantasy lately. The books are fun. This one is especially so. It starts and ends on some pretty big bombshells. And there are several huge revelations and developments inbetween. The ending pissed me off so much when I read it the first time. HOW COULD HE LEAVE THINGS THERE? WHEN IS THE NEXT BOOK COMING OUT!? DAMN YOU JIM BUTCHER!! KAAAAAAAHN!!! Sorry, where was I? This book lives up to it's name more than any other in and the series and probably most of the books I've read in general. Things change for Harry, who like me is a creature of habit, and prefers everything just so. Things have been building to this point for quite some time, and the last several chapters are more action packed than most of the previous books combined. I really love this book. There that was mostly concise, wasn't it? At least for me.. ...more Change is neither good nor bad, it is what it is. - Don Draper I really like this line from the Mad Men series, it just summarizes to us that Change is an integral part of our life whether it is good or bad. But some changes do affect us emotionally,physically and psychologically and same happens with our wizard from Chicago where in his past comes to bite him back literally, and changes all the things which we have come to recognize as Harry Dresden . I think Butcher has started his end game fro Change is neither good nor bad, it is what it is. - Don Draper I really like this line from the Mad Men series, it just summarizes to us that Change is an integral part of our life whether it is good or bad. But some changes do affect us emotionally,physically and psychologically and same happens with our wizard from Chicago where in his past comes to bite him back literally, and changes all the things which we have come to recognize as Harry Dresden . I think Butcher has started his end game from this book due to the fact that he reveals many surprising things about Harry's past which we saw in the previous books but failed to recognize it on the face value. The thing which I like about Butcher most is the fact that is that he always gives info regarding small things which are part of his world, and it is due to this fact, that even after starting this book after a long break I started feeling that it was just yesterday that I had read the last book. I think this book marks a turning point in the series which ends up changing Harry in a lot of ways and should not be missed. Straight up 5 stars. ...more Frustrating, disturbing, elegant, overwhelming, heartbreaking, and brilliant. And that's about it. Wait. Some things bear repeating. Heartbreaking. Brilliant. Now that's really it. Well... I see why it is called \"Changes\" Public Service Announcement: This book ends on a cliffhanger. Like, a lot. You'll want to have the next book on hand well before you finish, in case the bookstore or library is closed when you turn that last page, forcing you to scream and throw things and maybe lose your security deposit. Second Public Service Announcement: By \"the next book,\" I mean Ghost Story, not Side Jobs. Ghost Story picks up where Changes leaves off. Side Jobs is a collection of Dresden Files-related short stories and may Public Service Announcement: This book ends on a cliffhanger. Like, a lot. You'll want to have the next book on hand well before you finish, in case the bookstore or library is closed when you turn that last page, forcing you to scream and throw things and maybe lose your security deposit. Second Public Service Announcement: By \"the next book,\" I mean Ghost Story, not Side Jobs. Ghost Story picks up where Changes leaves off. Side Jobs is a collection of Dresden Files-related short stories and may be very good -- I haven't read it yet -- but if you don't know what to expect from it, you may end up doing some of the aforementioned screaming and throwing in spite of what you thought was careful planning on your part. I'm just saying. Final Public Service Announcement, At Least In This Review: If you're listening to these books rather than reading them on paper, please know that the next book, Ghost Story, is narrated by a very talented reader who is not -- repeat, not -- James Marsters. Advance warning of this sad fact may ease your pain, or at least prepare you for the struggle ahead. Other stuff: I'm still thinking about how I feel about this novel. It's the first Dresden book that has felt overstuffed and occasionally rushed to me. A great deal happens and a great deal is revealed, and I'm not sure it's adequately explained. I don't know if that's on me or on the author, but between that and the extremely dark ending, I didn't love this book as much as I have the previous several titles. I certainly found it compelling, though, and the premise grabbed me right from the beginning, so it still gets a solid four stars. Possibly even four and a half. I'm just not sure I want to give it five. A friend of mine who's more familiar with the series says that the next few books may help me decide what I really think of this one, so watch this space for updates. (Not literally. That would be kind of sad. Go have a life and stuff. Just don't be surprised if this review pops up in your feed again at some point because I've had a change of heart.) ...more I have realized that reading this series is a live fire demonstration of that definition of insanity about doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. By which I mean that this book is hilariously inept but enragingly compelling, with a gratuitous magical brawl every fifteen pages and towering manpain and the stakes on the battle against ultimate evil, take 12, this time with ultimater!evil cranked up yet higher. So business as usual. Seriously, I could not put this I have realized that reading this series is a live fire demonstration of that definition of insanity about doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. By which I mean that this book is hilariously inept but enragingly compelling, with a gratuitous magical brawl every fifteen pages and towering manpain and the stakes on the battle against ultimate evil, take 12, this time with ultimater!evil cranked up yet higher. So business as usual. Seriously, I could not put this book down, and I spent over half the time wanting to punch it squarely in the face. If anyone ever needs an example to show the ignorant of what we mean when we talk about glaringly sexist books that the author doesn\u2019t know are sexist, here it is. This book is all about terrible things happening to women and young girls for the purpose of making our hero feel manly rage. And he gets to \u2013 I am not kidding about this \u2013 stab a woman to death for plot-related purposes that essentially boil down to \u201cso he can feel bad about it.\u201d And there are a few agonizing moments where Butcher is clearly trying to cope with the multiple \u201cdude, stop being a sexist fuckwit!\u201d memos he must have gotten over the past decade, because he has his hero thinking things like, \u201cI like strong women, I don\u2019t understand what\u2019s wrong with that! I said I like women, God!\u201d . . . Dear Jim Butcher: Dude, stop being a patronizing sexist fuckwit. And also try to think of women as actual people rather than just objects of violence for the purposes of male angst. Actually, try thinking of women as people , full stop. This is what I mean when I say it\u2019s enragingly compelling, because omg, next book please? ...more Put simply - started very strong and ended even stronger. And I really do mean that. I've been riding the Dresden wave for the better part of a few months now, having only started the reading the series in chronological order (for the first time) this year, and aside from Dead Beat , I'd definitely put Changes up as my second favourite in the series thus far. I was very impressed with the pacing and tension - how it climbed to a peak, hitting just before I thought it would (keeping me on my toes), Put simply - started very strong and ended even stronger. And I really do mean that. I've been riding the Dresden wave for the better part of a few months now, having only started the reading the series in chronological order (for the first time) this year, and aside from Dead Beat , I'd definitely put Changes up as my second favourite in the series thus far. I was very impressed with the pacing and tension - how it climbed to a peak, hitting just before I thought it would (keeping me on my toes), dropped me down a deep dark well, and somehow managed to resolve itself in a way that really got me feeling for Harry. Without diving into spoiler land, I want to give this book credit for another epic battle scene (on par with the sequences from White Night and Small Favor ), and raising the stakes with Harry to a level I haven't to this point experienced in the previous books. When I finally closed the book, I found myself wondering how Harry is possibly going to pick up and move on from here? Empty night! :) 5 stars, well-earned. ...more Enjoyable. Reads like an action film meets PI meets urban fantasy. Still getting beat up, only this time, his bouncing back means making some questionable choices. Still a sucker for the women in his life; thankfully the people around him are able to point out his misconceptions. It's less annoying than in the first books, when it was obvious to everyone, including Dresden, that he was being manipulated, but he was \"unable to help it\" and would lead him into disasterous situations. This time his Enjoyable. Reads like an action film meets PI meets urban fantasy. Still getting beat up, only this time, his bouncing back means making some questionable choices. Still a sucker for the women in his life; thankfully the people around him are able to point out his misconceptions. It's less annoying than in the first books, when it was obvious to everyone, including Dresden, that he was being manipulated, but he was \"unable to help it\" and would lead him into disasterous situations. This time his overdone chivalry surrounds rescuing a daughter he never knew he had, and while also overdone, is more understandable and less inherently sexist than usual. Susan returns from afar, and the normal group is present, Karin, Grasshopper, and Thomas. Some of the favorite side characters make appearances in very appropriate ways, including Commander Luccio, Toot-toot, Butters, and Mister. It is very action paced, with each conflict seeming to lead to more disasters. While it may not make for the best mystery and character building, it builds its own kind of suspense, and makes for an engrossing and fast read. The ending conflict was ultimately satisfying, although a little annoying with one of those \"save-the-day\" appearance manuevers. My one undisputable complaint was the final cliffhanger event. Really, at this point in the series, it's not necessary; we'll all be back. ...more Everything converges in this book, and I mean everything . We've always known that Dresden was a powerful wizard, but he usually restricts himself and refuses to go down certain paths. However, with the kidnapping of his daughter, we get to see Harry on a rampage. It is beautiful, in a terrifying sort of way. Almost all of the characters we've seen in the previous books make an appearance in this one. The plots, secrets, and pacts are perfectly woven together, and this culmination and convergence w Everything converges in this book, and I mean everything . We've always known that Dresden was a powerful wizard, but he usually restricts himself and refuses to go down certain paths. However, with the kidnapping of his daughter, we get to see Harry on a rampage. It is beautiful, in a terrifying sort of way. Almost all of the characters we've seen in the previous books make an appearance in this one. The plots, secrets, and pacts are perfectly woven together, and this culmination and convergence was probably one of my favourite parts. They talk about the \"point of no return\" in stories, and well, I won't spoil anything, but suffice it to say that Harry loses everything on his quest (view spoiler) [his house, his car, his things (hide spoiler) ] . It's that much more impactful because we've had a dozen books to become attached to everything in this world. By now, Butcher has refined his craft, and he writes with an economy of words that manage to tell so much, so clearly, in such a small space. The climactic scene was the most powerful in any Dresden novel, and is right up there with my favourite endings of all time. This book has everything, and it is a true Dresden finale (at least of the first arc). ...more 10/11 Re-read: If I could give this book more than 5 stars I would. Absolutely fantastic the second time around. **** OMGGGGGGG???!!!!! Those of you who read it what do you think happened and by who?? So heart breaking .... how Harry was able to save you know who. :( I felt so bad for him and .... her. Review to come! Harry does it for me. Smart, nerdy, wiseass, with a self destructive desire to do the right thing. What should I say about this particular book!! I'm kind of short of words!! Seriously Mr. Butcher!! You'v earned my hatred and unconditional love at a time!! Oh Harry!! Poor soul!! :'( 2012 Re-read What has changed by rereading all these books in order is the following. 1 - the silly remarks Dresden makes (that I sometimes complained about, at least in comment sections of other people's reviews) has disappeared and lessened. 2 - The reminder paragraphs have also faded into the background. 3 - Overarching themes stand out a little clearer, story lines feel a bit more connected. 4 - This series has tightened up and just gotten better. I'm not sure how, I'm not sure why. Maybe it's aki 2012 Re-read What has changed by rereading all these books in order is the following. 1 - the silly remarks Dresden makes (that I sometimes complained about, at least in comment sections of other people's reviews) has disappeared and lessened. 2 - The reminder paragraphs have also faded into the background. 3 - Overarching themes stand out a little clearer, story lines feel a bit more connected. 4 - This series has tightened up and just gotten better. I'm not sure how, I'm not sure why. Maybe it's akin to the rule of three that is so often employed in music: Listen to an album 1 time and you only know the surface; listen to an album 2 times, establish a clearer connection with the lyrics and ties between songs; listen to an album 3 times and you've gotten a good deal of information regarding the way that album works and can finally decide on whether you enjoy it and why. (Yes, I've seen it happen where an album I hate after the first listen brings tears to my eyes on the 3rd listen ... that would be Sufjan Steven's \"Age of Adz\"). I think, with the Dresden Files, the same works. The rereading has made this whole thing clearer and my biggest initial qualm with the series - that of the Story as stated below - seems to have been an incredibly silly and stupid reason to dislike the books. Why? Because the Story Arc has always been there, hiding between lines of silliness and zombie T-Rexes and massive Vampire battles and sorcerers and faeries (who are most comparable to the centaurs and other magical creatures in the 7th Harry Potter book ... which is another series it's time to reread). It's a little clearer, even if I can't exactly put my finger on it. Going back \"over the casefiles\", as it may be, illuminates some of Vadderung's comments in this book. That everything is connected and always has been. It's not just some throw away line trying to sucker punch the readers. It's actually been embedded in the books this whole time. And yes, Changes still knocks me for emotional loops. It still feels like the strongest character based File yet. And though I know I'm in the middle of some giant Dungeon Crawl that Butcher has just penned out for us, I still am excited to see where it goes. And now, I'm also excited to revisit where it took us the first time. ----- Does this book continue the Story Arc discussed in your last review? No? Not really? Then why are you giving it 5 stars? I think it's interesting what happens in the course of reading this particular book in the Dresden Files. By now, there are certain things we know about Harry Dresden. He's a wizard. He's got this chivalry thing going. He cares deeply about those closest to him, even when they are taken away from him. He's fiercely loyal. He's been made rather powerful and even so is still nowhere near the strongest of the wizards (though he does say that he is probably in the top 20 or 30 in this book). He also follows a very strict code. This book is what happens when pushed to the limits and what parts of the code are flexible and what parts can be broken completely. This book is about the CHOICES, not about the changes. In many ways, it was the way that these choices were presented and the very real dilemmas that we heard Harry go through that makes it anywhere near as moving as it is. Of course, I've become a bit of a sucker for the melodrama lately and this indulges. The pop culture references get increased by a factor of 50 (beyond Star Wars and into Princess Bride and other movies also). The writing, though not as cliched or wooden as Jim Butcher has done (see review on Acadam's Fury when I finish that) is still not really strong. And yet I still cared for Harry and I cared for the choices he made and the changes that occur. And maybe, just maybe, it's possible that the Story Arc that I thought I knew was really focused in the wrong place after all. Is Les Miserables about the French Revolution or is it about characters who were affected by it? How about Ben Hur ? Is it about Rome and the crucifixion of Jesus or is it about how those particular aspects affect our main character (despite the subtitle \"A Tale of the Christ\")? In the same way, possibly, the Story Arc I was so fixated on could just be there to give something for Harry Dresden to react and grow with. Important, yes, and it still needs to be developed more, but it's not the center of the piece. That is Harry and his search in himself for who he is. Possibly. So slam away if you wish, I liked this book and - despite its flaws - think that this is a great series. I appreciate anything that can move me as much as this did. Few books have and in short, it is just because Harry Dresden is such a well created character that I believed in him. So, I don't care if the entire series feels like an extended campaign for a D&D Game. Sometimes, that's exactly what is necessary to tell a good story. Not great, not timeless, but still good and I'll probably revisit the entire series in 10 years when Butcher finally completes it. ...more", "Title": "Changes"},
