{"Comments": "<+++>Look Me in the Eye: My Life with Asperger's</+++>Asperger\u2019s Syndrome is a form of autism that affects social interaction, communication skills and may also cause physical clumsiness. For example, it may prevent a person from displaying emotion and may cause them to make inappropriate or odd comments. The author Robison had it undiagnosed for most of his life. Robison is also the older brother of Running with Scissors author Augusten Burroughs. One interesting element of this book is that Robison describes some of the same events as Burroughs, Asperger\u2019s Syndrome is a form of autism that affects social interaction, communication skills and may also cause physical clumsiness. For example, it may prevent a person from displaying emotion and may cause them to make inappropriate or odd comments. The author Robison had it undiagnosed for most of his life. Robison is also the older brother of Running with Scissors author Augusten Burroughs. One interesting element of this book is that Robison describes some of the same events as Burroughs, but from the older brother perspective. Same dysfunctional family,<---M> same neurotic mom and same violent</---M>, alcoholic dad; but Look Me in the Eye is told from his damaged perspective. And where Running with Scissors was a funny, but absurd parade of grotesques, Look Me in the Eye is a balanced, clear, simple, well written account of a life on the periphery of society, banished because of a disorder that also gave him savant-like skills. Finally, the fact that he worked for KISS and created Ace Frehley's stage guitars makes this an even more cool book to enjoy. ...more In a day when a cure is expected for nearly every ailment, flaw or disorder, I was struck by John Elder Robinson's assertion that those with Asperger's Syndrome, a neurobiological disorder on the autism spectrum that the author lived with undiagnosed until he was forty, needs no cure - only understanding. John Elder Robinson starts his story with his earliest memories -a failed attempt to make friends in a sandbox and meanders through his shame at being called a deviant and a psychopath because h In a day when a cure is expected for nearly every ailment, flaw or disorder, I was struck by John Elder Robinson's assertion that those with Asperger's Syndrome, a neurobiological disorder on the autism spectrum that the author lived with undiagnosed until he was forty, needs no cure - only understanding. John Elder Robinson starts his story with his earliest memories -a failed attempt to make friends in a sandbox and meanders through his shame at being called a deviant and a psychopath because he avoided eye contact (although his explanation about how he still doesn't understand most people's need to stare at somebody's eyeball while speaking to them is hilarious), leaving home in the middle of his teenage years, finding himself as part of the 70s rock scene and creating flaming guitars for KISS, faking his way through a job interview for a position as an engineer and getting it by reading and memorizing books about the subject, his parallel struggle to \"be a team player\" through out his career, until he finally arrives at understanding and acceptance for both his gifts and oddities. Although this book contains many fascinating stories that stem from his dysfunctional childhood rather than his Asperger's Syndrome, Robinson's experiences and viewpoint sheds a great deal of light on an \"Aspergian's\" way of thinking. I have a nephew who has been diagnosed with Asperger's and a brother and sister-in-law who constantly seek balance between his way of seeing things and their own understanding. I found myself asking my sister-in-law the question, \"Do you think he needs a cure?\" Who is to say? Robinson made clear in his book that while he has learned a great deal about appropriate social responses through trial and error, he still finds them unnatural and really, more to the point, unnecessary. What is normal? How much of life's successes are social? What parts of our own personalities should be fixed? I mean, I can't imagine an enjoyable existence where we are all the same. But, if Asperger's Syndrome falls on the Autism Spectrum, and we observe those with the kinds of autism that render them completely unable to connect to the outside world, certainly we feel they miss out on opportunities for relationships and meaningful experiences. Certainly we would choose a cure, if there was one to be found. So at what point of the spectrum do we intercede? These are simply the questions that I had after reading this book. You may or may not have similar kinds. However, if you get a chance to read this illuminating book, you will definitely have a glimpse into a colorful and fascinating life. ...more I am interested in the Asperger's continuum, so when I heard about this memoir - written by Augusten Burroughs's brother - I added it to my Amazon wish list. The title leads one to believe that the book is about the author's life with Asperger's, but that's a little misleading. The book is about his life in general and very little is devoted to how Asperger's influenced his life at all ages. I wanted to read a memoir about growing up within a dysfunctional family and also having a condition that I am interested in the Asperger's continuum, so when I heard about this memoir - written by Augusten Burroughs's brother - I added it to my Amazon wish list. The title leads one to believe that the book is about the author's life with Asperger's, but that's a little misleading. The book is about his life in general and very little is devoted to how Asperger's influenced his life at all ages. I wanted to read a memoir about growing up within a dysfunctional family and also having a condition that makes life different, but what I read was about his experiences with sound engineering, some good stories that you can hear in any bar and, occasionally, his Asperger's. His condition seemed to be tangential, an afterthought. A selling point? I skimmed through most of the middle part of the book through the end because it just wasn't interesting, nor was it even remotely related to the story I thought he would be relating to the reader. He writes in his afterword that he \"wanted to show readers what it was like to grow up feeling like a freak or a misfit.<---F>\" It did not</---F>. He writes that he wanted also to show what life with Asperger's was like, how those with the condition are different. He doesn't do that, either. He doesn't settle on any one part of his life long enough to explain anything, and the result is a collection of chapters and words by Augusten Burroughs's brother, not an account of life with Asperger's. One of the reviews on the back cover of the paperback book reads, \"...Should be on the reading list of anyone who is interested in the human mind.\" As someone deeply interested in psychology, neurology, brain and behavior, I am almost offended by that statement. The book gives absolutely nothing - neither personal nor scientific - to sate any curiosity one may have of the human mind. Just because you have some decent stories doesn't mean you can write a memoir. I'm sorry I bought this book. ...more \u201cLook me in the eyes, young man!\u201d \u201cNobody trusts a man who won\u2019t look them in the eye.\u201d \u201cYou look like a criminal.\u201d \u201cI\u2019ve read about people like you. They have no expression because they have no feeling. Some of the worst murderers in history were sociopaths.\u201d These are just some of the things <---A>John Elder Robison</---A> heard as a young boy, decades before a friend handed him a book about Asperger\u2019s Syndrome and told him, \"This book describes you exactly.\" Hearing these predictions made Robison withdraw eve \u201cLook me in the eyes, young man!\u201d \u201cNobody trusts a man who won\u2019t look them in the eye.\u201d \u201cYou look like a criminal.\u201d \u201cI\u2019ve read about people like you. They have no expression because they have no feeling. Some of the worst murderers in history were sociopaths.\u201d These are just some of the things John Elder Robison heard as a young boy, decades before a friend handed him a book about Asperger\u2019s Syndrome and told him, \"This book describes you exactly.\" Hearing these predictions made Robison withdraw even further as a child as he waited for these awful things to come true. It wasn\u2019t until he was a teenager that he realized he wasn\u2019t going to become a serial killer. By that time he had met enough shifty people who had no trouble looking him in the eye to realize that these people had no idea what they were talking about. Learning that he was not defective and that he was not alone brought great peace to the adult John Elder Robison. Although Robison was raised by a violent, alcoholic father and an increasingly mentally unstable mother, he was luckier than most Aspergian children at that time in that he was raised in a collegiate environment, where his quirky nature and adult personality were admired by professors and students. He honed his coping skills on college campuses across America. His brother, Augusten Burroughs, chronicled the dysfunction of the Robison family in his popular memoir, Running with Scissors (made into a movie in 2006). Burroughs believes that his brother was able to survive their turbulent childhood by his ability to shut down in traumatic situations. Robison learned early on how not to answer a question. If a kid said, \u201cLook at my Tonka truck,\u201d instead of blurting out \u201cI want some cookies,\u201d he would force himself to supply the correct response: \u201cThat\u2019s a neat truck! Can I hold it?\u201d These skills helped him in his teenage and adult years, and he went on to design speakers for Pink Floyd and flaming guitars for KISS before settling down in the corporate world of designing electronic games for Milton Bradley. Eventually, his expertise in automotives steered him towards his own business of repairing and restoring European automobiles. Some who are familiar with Aspies might be surprised at the emotion that Robison brings to his story. The chapters \u201cI Get a Bear Cub\u201d and \u201cWinning at Basketball,\u201d and the epilogue about his father\u2019s death are surprisingly touching, breaking through the common robotic barrier of an Aspie. I was especially moved by his perfectly rational reason why Aspies don\u2019t show emotion over tragic events that don\u2019t directly affect them: \"People die every minute, all over the world. If we tried to feel sorry for every death, our little hearts would explode.\" And he\u2019s absolutely right. Look Me in the Eye is one of the few books on Asperger's Syndrome that is not a dry training manual on the condition. I will always be grateful to Robison for telling his story because someone I'm close to has Asperger's, and I can now see that this person's eccentric way of doing things makes perfectly good sense to him, even if it sometimes doesn't to me. ...more I had no idea John Robison was Augusten Burrough's brother! He gives the foreword in the book. This is a really sad story of a boy's childhood. He had family with troubles, kids and people that were mean. They didn't know he had something like he had and people didn't understand most of that stuff back then. They don't even understand it now. A lot of people are just mean. Just because someone has any kind of mental or medical issue doesn't mean there is something wrong with them. They are not m I had no idea John Robison was Augusten Burrough's brother! He gives the foreword in the book. This is a really sad story of a boy's childhood. He had family with troubles, kids and people that were mean. They didn't know he had something like he had and people didn't understand most of that stuff back then. They don't even understand it now. A lot of people are just mean. Just because someone has any kind of mental or medical issue doesn't mean there is something wrong with them. They are not monsters! --->EXCERPT<--- By the time I was twelve, I had progressed from \"If he doesn't get better, he may have to be institutionalized\" to \"He's a weird, screwed-up kid.\" But although my communication abilities had developed by leaps and bounds, people had ever higher expectations for me, and I began having trouble with what the therapists called \"inappropriate expressions.\" John was also abused by his alcoholic father. It makes me sick. Anyone that gets abused, it makes me sick. I might sob, or I might be quiet. It depended on how hard he hit me. I thought of the knife my grandfather had given me for Christmas. Solingen steel. Eight inches long. Sharp. I could roll over and jam it into him, right to the hilt. Right in the belly. But I was afraid. What if I miss? What if it doesn't kill him? I had seen the movies, where they just kept coming. They didn't die like they were supposed to. He might kill me for real, then. But not all is doom and gloom. John was very smart and making things. He actually made guitars and made these awesome guitars for Ace Frehley! How cool is that? Smoking guitars, fire guitars, you name it. But the thing is, this book is just another good book for people to learn a little more about how people are treated with Asperger's. Some are not treated bad but we all know the world, there seems to be more bad people than good. *I would like to thank Random House and Blogging for Books for a print copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.* MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more I bought this book on a whim (so that my order would get free shipping from Amazon.com). I was quickly horrified to learn that the author is the real-life brother of Augusten Burroughs, author of Running with Scissors . I did not enjoy that memoir at all. Go read my review of it so see what exactly I hated, if you're so curious. But I decided that I would try not to hold Robison's family against him and read his book. I have to admit, given my son's placement on the autism spectrum, books that app I bought this book on a whim (so that my order would get free shipping from Amazon.com). I was quickly horrified to learn that the author is the real-life brother of Augusten Burroughs, author of Running with Scissors . I did not enjoy that memoir at all. Go read my review of it so see what exactly I hated, if you're so curious. But I decided that I would try not to hold Robison's family against him and read his book. I have to admit, given my son's placement on the autism spectrum, books that approach that subject matter spark my interest. Robison's memoir focuses on his view of the world as a person living with Asperger's, and for a very large portion of his life, without a dianosis. So many moments I saw characteristics common to my son, and it made me consider that raising of such a child. It's clear that I could not read this book with my usual academic detachment. But here goes with the rest. Much of his writing was interesting. I mean, who doesn't want to hear about the life of a guy designing smoking guitars? However, there were chapters that were a bit bland, overly analytical, and just there for information. Parts like that read like a brochure in a psychiatrist's office. But to be fair, Aspergians can definitely be that way, so it was truth in style, more or less. For me, the very best part of this book was the epilogue. It was interesting and heart warming. Robison was able to do something his brother failed to do in Running With Scissors , conclude the story. It ended, and I was content. As a reader, I can't ask for much more. ...more Before I read John Elder Robison's LOOK ME IN THE EYE: MY LIFE WITH ASPERGER'S, I knew enough about the syndrome and about my brother to mentally peel off the Asperger's label that my mother stuck on my late brother. Nevertheless, I wanted access to the interior of someone with Asperger's. Yes, I was well aware of the fact that it's not a \"one-size-fits-all\" syndrome and that looking at people and experiences through Robison's eyes wouldn't enable me to prove the unprovable. Having no interest i Before I read John Elder Robison's LOOK ME IN THE EYE: MY LIFE WITH ASPERGER'S, I knew enough about the syndrome and about my brother to mentally peel off the Asperger's label that my mother stuck on my late brother. Nevertheless, I wanted access to the interior of someone with Asperger's. Yes, I was well aware of the fact that it's not a \"one-size-fits-all\" syndrome and that looking at people and experiences through Robison's eyes wouldn't enable me to prove the unprovable. Having no interest in the lives of the abusive alcoholic father and certifiably crazy mother of Augusten Burroughs and John Elder Robison, no interest in KISS and the other bands that benefitted from Robison's brilliance, no interest in complex electrical engineering projects, I read LOOK ME IN THE EYE for only one reason. I wanted to compare -- call me \"irrational\" or something more insulting -- a man with Asperger's and my brother. I wanted to feel, from the first page of Robison's memoir to the last, that I was not reading about my brother. I unhesitatingly gave LOOK ME IN THE EYE four stars -- because I got what I wanted. One of my high school English teachers got her students to spell \"weird\" correctly by writing on the blackboard: WE are all a little WEird. And perhaps we are all at least a little Aspergian. ...more very funny book! describes bits and pieces of Asperger's, but it is not a book about Asperger's. It is a very funny life story of someone who understands that there are social mores, but has to eventually learn to do them and even as an adult remind himself to follow them. I say that it is funny because he is very light hearted about his trials and tribulations. One thing he mentions about asperger's is the autistic spectrum, and that with his strong memories of himself as a child, he strongly fe very funny book! describes bits and pieces of Asperger's, but it is not a book about Asperger's. It is a very funny life story of someone who understands that there are social mores, but has to eventually learn to do them and even as an adult remind himself to follow them. I say that it is funny because he is very light hearted about his trials and tribulations. One thing he mentions about asperger's is the autistic spectrum, and that with his strong memories of himself as a child, he strongly feels that if he had not been around other people who offered social and intellectual stimulation for him, he may have slipped into autism. I think this is incredibly important for parents to realize and to obtain early intervention if they even suspect delays with their child. JER further goes on to explain that as he progressed socially through the years, he lost many of his abilities. He looks at work (circuits and things) that he's done 25 years prior and knows he could never work at that level again. He writes that it was worth the trade off to be more socially accepted, and happy, pointing out that he believes that it is not that autistic kids choose to be alone and not interact, but that they want to and just can't. ...more OKAY THIS WAS GLORIOUS. I'm always nervous of memoirs and, particularly, adult books...because I am Peter Pan, okay?? I am not growing into adult books. Return me to the children's aisle ASAP. *ahem* BUT! This was so easy to read and funny and engaging and interesting and I basically did not want to put it down. I was doing the whole \"oh one more chapter and I'll go to bed...um, just one more... just one more .\" Addictive = yes. Also it's by someone with Asperger's so you know all his memories and OKAY THIS WAS GLORIOUS. I'm always nervous of memoirs and, particularly, adult books...because I am Peter Pan, okay?? I am not growing into adult books. Return me to the children's aisle ASAP. *ahem* BUT! This was so easy to read and funny and engaging and interesting and I basically did not want to put it down. I was doing the whole \"oh one more chapter and I'll go to bed...um, just one more... just one more .\" Addictive = yes. Also it's by someone with Asperger's so you know all his memories and feelings and experiences are 100% true (unlike some other awful AS books I've read...ugh. let's not even talk about them). And I think this gives you a fantastic view of how being Aspergic is sometimes an \"invisible thing\" and it can affect your life 100% but people just assume you're being belligerent or annoying or, as was John Elder's experience, \"most likely to end up a serial killer\" despite him being a very non-violent person. SO THIS BOOK IS JUST GRAND, OKAY?? The only part I didn't like was in the middle. It lagged a lot. And it got really focused on how he was revamping amps for the bands he worked for and -- I don't even care. BUT. At the same time, it really showed how obsessed he was with mechanics (a very clear AS trait) and the story would be patchy and confusing without those chapters. But I was a less-than-interested there. And there are some chapters towards the end which are JUS TSO GOOD I COULDN'T EVEN PUT THE BOOK DOWN. GAWSH. So for someone who's allergic to both memoirs AND adult books and yet loved this??? I doubly recommend it. I also want to read Running with Scissors , which is a memoir by his little brother (who then encouraged John to write HIS memoir) and I'm also curious about the book John mentions in the memoir called Born on a Blue Day: Inside the Extraordinary Mind of an Autistic Savant . I love books that recommend books. So helpful. So kind. Thank you John Elder Robinson. HE IS A BRILLIANT HUMAN. ...more Haven't read Augusten Burroughs' books so didn't feel a connection on that level. Sorry the author had a crappy childhood (like a lot of kids w/alcoholic parents) and that he had a tough time socially (like a lot of kids) but this guy has had a way more successful life than almost anyone I know ... Not 1 but 3 amazingly successful lucrative careers, not 1 but 2 deep and meaningful long-term relationships, a great kid, a beautiful house ... Am I supposed to feel sorry for this guy because he's a Haven't read Augusten Burroughs' books so didn't feel a connection on that level. Sorry the author had a crappy childhood (like a lot of kids w/alcoholic parents) and that he had a tough time socially (like a lot of kids) but this guy has had a way more successful life than almost anyone I know ... Not 1 but 3 amazingly successful lucrative careers, not 1 but 2 deep and meaningful long-term relationships, a great kid, a beautiful house ... Am I supposed to feel sorry for this guy because he's a genius w/Asperger's? I dunno. Not particularly detailed, pretty much straight narrative. Easy to read. Best part was when he was designing exploding guitars for the band Kiss. Overall, eh. ...more Hmm, it's hard to write this review because I don't want to sound mean-spirited at any point. I did enjoy this book quite a lot, although sometimes I wasn't sure if he was being funny/sarcastic or completely serious. (I tend to think the latter.) I worked exclusivly with an adolescent with Asperger's for about six months and it was an exhausting experience. While Robinson insists he has feelings (and they can be hurt) (which is a good thing to remind people without experience with autism spectru Hmm, it's hard to write this review because I don't want to sound mean-spirited at any point. I did enjoy this book quite a lot, although sometimes I wasn't sure if he was being funny/sarcastic or completely serious. (I tend to think the latter.) I worked exclusivly with an adolescent with Asperger's for about six months and it was an exhausting experience. While Robinson insists he has feelings (and they can be hurt) (which is a good thing to remind people without experience with autism spectrum disorders) I think he demonstrates throughout the book that people with Asperger's simply cannot ever put themselves in anyone else's shoes. Instead of at least thinking \"Okay, this person is telling me X, and while I can't understand it, I'll at least accept that THEY think X\" Robinson (and the student I worked with) go on and on and on and on and ON about why the other person thinking or feeling X is completely WRONG. That kind of bugged me. It's not just that they can't empathize, it's that they feel the other person's feelings aren't valid, and will go to lengths to demonstrate why. I did get quite a bit out of this book, though; I was very interested when he explained why \"people like him\" literally cannot look people in the eye. I have heard that people with autism see faces very differently than people who don't have autism do--it's information like that that should help people without autism spectrum disorders have much more patience and understanding. You wouldn't tell a person with a broken leg to just get over it and walk, and trying to force people with austism spectrum disorders to do things the way \"the rest of us\" do them is just...what's the word...well, ridiculous, if not cruel. ...more This is one of the best books I've read all year - and the cover is fantastic too. I've been reading the author's blog (jerobison.blogspot.com) and find myself wanting to read the book again. It's really one guy's story about trying to get through life - but he happens to be Augusten Burrough's brother, he worked for KISS for several years and he has Asperger's - well-written, clever and funny in so many ways. I've been looking for a book like this since summer when my 10-year-old was diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome. I was confused about what his future prospects were. What could I expect? Would he be living with me the rest of his life? Could he be productive in society? Since that time I have heard of other Aspergians who have been successful to varying degrees but have never talked to one about their experiences. \"Look me in the eye\" gives that viewpoint in rich detail from a man who not only ha I've been looking for a book like this since summer when my 10-year-old was diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome. I was confused about what his future prospects were. What could I expect? Would he be living with me the rest of his life? Could he be productive in society? Since that time I have heard of other Aspergians who have been successful to varying degrees but have never talked to one about their experiences. \"Look me in the eye\" gives that viewpoint in rich detail from a man who not only has experienced it but who can insightfully explain why he responded the way he did in certain situations. He has the ability to step through his thought process to pinpoint where his thinking differs from the \"Normal\" person. And it all makes sense. So much so that I first began wondering if his way of thinking didn't make more sense, then wondering if Aspergian aren't more normal than the normal person, and finally, \"Maybe I'm a bit Aspergerish myself.\" Not everyone will be able to relate to his life (from a fairly normal family, to an abusive family, to severely mentally handicapped parents, out of school at 16, and on the road with KISS by age 18) but his struggles with relationships and understanding are universal. The only caveat I would mention is the language is rather rough throughout the book, and if you have a son who is already predispositioned toward sick and elaborate practical jokes, don't let him read this. However, if you are a parent of an Aspergian, this should be required reading. ...more A thoughtful and entertaining memoir of someone who has Asperger's, but he wasn't diagnosed until he was 40. Before then, John knew there was something wrong with him, but he didn't know what. When he was young he wanted to make friends and be part of a team, but he had trouble talking to other kids. He couldn't understand social cues and didn't understand when other people got mad at him for asking inappropriate questions or smiling at the wrong times. Worst of all, John would often look at the A thoughtful and entertaining memoir of someone who has Asperger's, but he wasn't diagnosed until he was 40. Before then, John knew there was something wrong with him, but he didn't know what. When he was young he wanted to make friends and be part of a team, but he had trouble talking to other kids. He couldn't understand social cues and didn't understand when other people got mad at him for asking inappropriate questions or smiling at the wrong times. Worst of all, John would often look at the floor when someone talked to him, and grownups often yelled at him to \"look me in the eye! What are you hiding?\" John Elder Robison is also known for being the brother of Augusten Burroughs, who wrote \"Running With Scissors.\" Both brothers are wonderful storytellers, and John has some great ones. After he dropped out of high school, he started working with a local band because he was good at fixing their sound equipment. One day he ran into some of the tech crew for Pink Floyd, and he was able to fix their speakers. This led to a job traveling around the country fixing sound equipment for other bands, and he also designed special effects for Ace Frehley from KISS. Later, John worked at Milton Bradley designing some early electronic games. Throughout his life, John enjoyed playing pranks on people and telling long tales. The book does a good job of showing the thought processes of someone with Asperger's. I work with some students who are on the autism spectrum, and it helped to get more insight into how they might think. ...more I was just saying the other day that it's interesting to read the family connection between John Elder Robison and his more well-known writing sibling; you can see a literary resemblance between John and his brother. Reading this book is like reading Augusten, if Augusten had Asperger's, if that makes any sense. Aside from being highly entertaining in its own right as a memoir, I found this highly educational as an inside glimpse into the mind of someone with Asperger's. The most striking thing I I was just saying the other day that it's interesting to read the family connection between John Elder Robison and his more well-known writing sibling; you can see a literary resemblance between John and his brother. Reading this book is like reading Augusten, if Augusten had Asperger's, if that makes any sense. Aside from being highly entertaining in its own right as a memoir, I found this highly educational as an inside glimpse into the mind of someone with Asperger's. The most striking thing I took away from it mirrors the initial insight I got from reading Born on a Blue Day (an incredibly moving book, btw)--that people with Asperger's and with autism really want and crave connections with other people, and that it's incredibly frustrating to them that they can't decipher the social codes that allow them to make those connections. This may not be an insight to some, but for myself I have to say that I had always assumed that it was a function of people with autism-spectrum disorder that they didn't enjoy interacting with others. That they do, and in many instance can't or have to fight so hard to make it happen, is profoundly sad to me. It would be easier, certainly, if it were just that the connections were unwanted. Sad as it may be, learning otherwise added a new dimension of compassion to my understanding of these disorders. Back to John Robison--he's a funny guy, and it's hard to tell if it's intentional all the time, but I'll take it. ...more I really enjoyed this book. Several times I laughed out loud, and then was stumped how to answer my son's question, \"What's so funny, Momma?\" \"Well, son, he sent a blow up doll to his crappy teacher.\" Or: \"You see, Sam, he shot a snake that was slithering around outside his hotel room.\" No, none of those would do. While I loved reading the many misadventures of Robison, I also felt a great deal of sorrow; for his troubled childhood and for how misunderstood he was as a person with Asperger's. The tru I really enjoyed this book. Several times I laughed out loud, and then was stumped how to answer my son's question, \"What's so funny, Momma?\" \"Well, son, he sent a blow up doll to his crappy teacher.\" Or: \"You see, Sam, he shot a snake that was slithering around outside his hotel room.\" No, none of those would do. While I loved reading the many misadventures of Robison, I also felt a great deal of sorrow; for his troubled childhood and for how misunderstood he was as a person with Asperger's. The true value in this book is that Robison educates readers on Asperger's. How differently Aspergians (his word) view the world, and while they may seem cold and unaware, they are not. ...more \"Look me in the eye,\" is something John Robinson grew up hearing. He was constantly told that he would end up as a criminal, him having shifty eyes and all, and what did he have to hide? Unfortunately for John, Asperger's Syndrome wasn't widely known when he was growing up. In his time, the only autism that was \"seen\" was the extreme cases, the ones that were locked away in worlds of their own, that couldn't function in society at all. I was drawn to this book for a few reasons. The first being th \"Look me in the eye,\" is something John Robinson grew up hearing. He was constantly told that he would end up as a criminal, him having shifty eyes and all, and what did he have to hide? Unfortunately for John, Asperger's Syndrome wasn't widely known when he was growing up. In his time, the only autism that was \"seen\" was the extreme cases, the ones that were locked away in worlds of their own, that couldn't function in society at all. I was drawn to this book for a few reasons. The first being that I loved the cover and the title. The second, that my own little Superman has been diagnosed with autism and I wanted to learn more from the humanistic standpoint. This book chronicles his life as an undiagnosed Aspergian. There are some very painful moments, but his wit and humor kept me glued to my seat--excuse the cliche--and I finished it in nearly one sitting. He explains how he thought, how he saw the world, and how the world saw him. He states that some have said that people with Asperger's (or autism) have no desire to interact socially with others. He corrects this way of thinking. He wanted to interact, would loved to have been accepted, but didn't know how. He eventually quit trying because he couldn't take any more rejections from the children he was trying to make friends with. His life took some wild curves and turns, and it wasn't until he was in his 40s that he was diagnosed with Asperger's. His life was unbelievable, but completely human at the same time. And something he's learned since writing this book and doing book tours is that it's a common thing for humans to yearn for acceptance, even as they feel rejection. And no one is immune. I loved the humor. My favorite part was when he was determined to make friends with Chuckie. He decided that to introduce himself, he would pet her on the head. His reasoning is that dogs liked it, it's how they made friends, and that he liked it. It calmed him down and soothed him when his mom would rub his head and arm at night. Her reaction wasn't quite what he was going for. She smacked him. Undeterred, but confused, he decided to try again, this time with a stick. His reasoning was that if she couldn't reach him, she couldn't smack him. Unfortunately, the teacher didn't see it that way. >.< There is a bit of language, and his life addresses some serious issues: abuse (family), mental illnesses, alcholism, drugs (he made guitars for KISS) and all the things that go with traveling with rock stars, bullying, and dropping out of school. The paperback is a revised version that he pruposefully cleaned up the language for because he knew there might be younger people reading his book. My only quibble was that it ended. I loved the book and hope he writes more in the future. My favorite line: \"It's not a disease. It doesn't need curing. It's just how you are.\" 5 out of 5 stars ...more I was expecting this memoir to be an astonishing insight into Asperger's syndrome, a glimpse into the mind of the author. Instead, what I got was a bunch of semi-interesting stories about this dude's life, with the Asperger's aspect as almost an afterthought. Other reviews I've read have called Robison a \"born storyteller\" but I personally didn't find this to be all that engrossing. You'd think that one would be able to make touring with Kiss into a enjoyable story...but the writing was so robot I was expecting this memoir to be an astonishing insight into Asperger's syndrome, a glimpse into the mind of the author. Instead, what I got was a bunch of semi-interesting stories about this dude's life, with the Asperger's aspect as almost an afterthought. Other reviews I've read have called Robison a \"born storyteller\" but I personally didn't find this to be all that engrossing. You'd think that one would be able to make touring with Kiss into a enjoyable story...but the writing was so robotic that it wasn't holding my attention very well. I suppose that's part of the syndrome itself, which is why I'm giving this a second star. It was ok. ...more This book was a bit odd. It wasn't really about Asperger's as much as it was the story of Robison's life thus far - he wasn't diagnosed with any type of autistic disorder until he was in his later 30s. There were parts that were quite interesting, but nothing seemed really cohesive. Not bad, exactly, just not great. ****4/15 - This book was so unmemorable to me, I accidentally rebought it when it was the Kindle Deal of the Day. Crap. I did a whole bloody review and it disappeared. When I stop being cross about it I will write a proper one. Maybe. I wish there was an automatic save function as there is on some blogging sites. Hate hate hate losing a review. The older brother of author Augusten Burroughs, John Elder Robison grew up in a dysfunctional household with an abusive, drunken father and an insane mother - and undiagnosed Asperger's. He details his life growing up and handling a conditon he didn't know he had until 1990 - several years after the condition was identified and named. Asperger's is on the spectrum of Autism. Despite higher-than-average intelligence and a liking for practical jokes, John Elder's childhood was lonely and unpleasant The older brother of author Augusten Burroughs, John Elder Robison grew up in a dysfunctional household with an abusive, drunken father and an insane mother - and undiagnosed Asperger's. He details his life growing up and handling a conditon he didn't know he had until 1990 - several years after the condition was identified and named. Asperger's is on the spectrum of Autism. Despite higher-than-average intelligence and a liking for practical jokes, John Elder's childhood was lonely and unpleasant. His inability to look people in the eye, his problems with social interactions and saying the \"right\" thing, alienated him. He dropped out of school at fifteen and became a music engineer for a band, then worked on Pink Floyd's gear and ended up designing the light guitars and exploding guitars for KISS, a band he toured with for several years. Switching to Milton Bradley, the toy manufacturer, he tried fitting in and being part of the corporate ladder but finally decided it wasn't worth his unhappiness and started his own fine automobile service business. Two wives, one child and a diagnosis later, Robison is much more content with himself than he was growing up, and after the first release of his memoir, he discovered that pretty much everyone experiences similar feelings of loneliness and alienation, and don't fit in as well as they think they should. It's an amazing story and a wonderful opportunity to see inside the head of someone with Asperger's. The difference between the way an Aspergian thinks and the way non-Aspergians think comes across in the writing, which also makes it harder to read. The story jumps around a lot, and new phases of life or people's names are dropped in without introduction or priming, which makes it hard to follow at times. The funny thing about it is, Robison likes logic, but his story doesn't always follow logically. I'm very organised, and I would have liked the story to read more coherently. At the same time, I wouldn't want to mould his voice or make him write to a standard structure, because it's a memoir and we would completely lose who Robison really is. So as much as I would wish for a book that suited me , I am grateful to read Robison's story in his authentic voice, even if it did make it hard to get through. Robison has led and will probably continue to lead a very colourful life. Some of the things he got up to are surprising - like setting up fake cocaine lines in his office at MB and filming one of the top managers sneaking in to steal it. Told mostly in chronological form, it does jump back and forth a bit and it wasn't always apparent how old he was or at what stage of his life something happened in - the markers weren't always there, so it seemed like things were happening all at once. That's what I mean by making it more organised! It did give me an insight into Asperger's, though everyone's different and Robison is not a template for the condition. It's a thoughtful, personal story, musing about the human mind and society and showing just how similar we are, at the end of the day. ...more I loved this book. It's the true story of a boy named John Robison's struggle to connect with people. He wonders why he isn't like other kids and why they don't hang around with him. When he's a teenager, he is always dismantling things like radios and burying his little brother in holes in the ground. All this has him looked upon as weirdo. His mother speaks to light fixtures and his farther is always drunk in the evenings, so John's only friends seem to be the machines he tinkers with - least I loved this book. It's the true story of a boy named John Robison's struggle to connect with people. He wonders why he isn't like other kids and why they don't hang around with him. When he's a teenager, he is always dismantling things like radios and burying his little brother in holes in the ground. All this has him looked upon as weirdo. His mother speaks to light fixtures and his farther is always drunk in the evenings, so John's only friends seem to be the machines he tinkers with - least they are reliable in his mind. Finally, at the age of forty John gets some answers when a therapist informs him that he has a form of autism called Asperger's Syndrome, which changed the way Robison sees himself, and the world. Because I was a very mischievous child myself, I found this story really interesting and couldn't help feeling sorry for this boy as a child and how lonely he must have been. I struggled to learn as a child, but I was lucky enough to have a happy childhood, full of friends and siblings to play with and wonderful parents. John Robison's story is a funny autobiography of a child growing up with Asberger's Syndrome. John tells the story in such a funny and interesting way so that the reader know what it was like and gives an insight into his thoughts. He also tells how he had to leave his little brother with their two nutty parents, though that boy grew up to also be an author and wrote 'Writing with Scissors', which I'm dying to read. John learns in his adult years to connect to people like he always wanted and gets married. I added this part as it inspires people with these type of problems, either with their children or themselves, to read books such as this. John is a great gifted person and an inspiration as well as being a great writer and comedian. I highly recommend this book. ...more This is a very interesting book. Too bad he wasn't diagnosed at a younger age and he wouldn't have had to discover everything for himself. It makes me want to be more understanding of people with this and other syndromes. If there is supposedly 1 out of 150 people with this syndrome, I think I know some and will be less critical of their behavior. I should not have read the foreword to this book, which was written by Augusten Burroughs. I hated the movie Running with Scissors, though I have to confess I haven\u2019t read the book. Maybe I should give him the benefit of the doubt, but I have an automatic negative reaction to Augusten Burroughs based on that movie (and a quick look at the book reviews on Goodreads indicates I\u2019m probably not the only one). So, this book is by Burrough\u2019s older brother (their last names are different because August I should not have read the foreword to this book, which was written by Augusten Burroughs. I hated the movie Running with Scissors, though I have to confess I haven\u2019t read the book. Maybe I should give him the benefit of the doubt, but I have an automatic negative reaction to Augusten Burroughs based on that movie (and a quick look at the book reviews on Goodreads indicates I\u2019m probably not the only one). So, this book is by Burrough\u2019s older brother (their last names are different because Augusten changed his whole name) and was still very enjoyable to me, despite the association. A significant portion of the book is about the author\u2019s life in general and not about his Asperger\u2019s specifically. I think there\u2019s a good balance, though, for the casual reader as well as those interested in learning more about autism. For me the take-home message was that those with autism feel the same emotions we feel, even if they express them differently, or don\u2019t express them at all. The author put this much more eloquently than I just did (see the quotes below). Quotes: My conversational difficulties highlight a problem Aspergians face every day. A person with an obvious disability \u2013 for example, someone in a wheelchair \u2013 is treated compassionately because his handicap is obvious. No one turns to a guy in a wheelchair and says, \u201cQuick! Let\u2019s run across the street!\u201d And when he can\u2019t run across the street, no one says, \u201cWhat\u2019s his problem?\u201d They offer to help him across the street. With me, though, there is no external sign that I am conversationally handicapped. So folks hear some conversational misstep and say, \u201cWhat an arrogant jerk!\u201d I look forward to the day when my handicap will afford me the same respect accorded to a guy in a wheelchair. Many descriptions of autism and Asperger\u2019s describe people like me as \u201cnot wanting contact with others\u201d or \u201cpreferring to play alone.\u201d I can\u2019t speak for other kids, but I\u2019d like to be very clear about my own feelings: I did not ever want to be alone. What I do know is that all of us have far more in common than we realize\u2026 I may look and act pretty strange at times, but deep down I just want to be loved and understood for who and what I am. I want to be accepted as part of society, not an outcast or an outsider. I don\u2019t want to be a genius or a freak or something on display. I wish for empathy and compassion from those around me, and I appreciate sincerity, clarity, and logicality in other people. I believe most people \u2013 autistic or not \u2013 share this wish. ...more This was such a fascinating book - the author has Aspergers, and this autobiography offers great insight into the way his mind(and those of other Aspergians)works and processes things. For example, he attemps to explain why he might react with a smile when told that someone has died. He also goes into detail about his expertise on niche subjects, his startling intelligence, and he gives us an idea of why his brain might work that way, and how it has both evolved and devolved over the years. The This was such a fascinating book - the author has Aspergers, and this autobiography offers great insight into the way his mind(and those of other Aspergians)works and processes things. For example, he attemps to explain why he might react with a smile when told that someone has died. He also goes into detail about his expertise on niche subjects, his startling intelligence, and he gives us an idea of why his brain might work that way, and how it has both evolved and devolved over the years. The most interesting passage, in my opinion, is when he proposes that perhaps many people born within the Autism spectrum have the ability (depending upon their personal circumstances) to shift where they are within that spectrum -either gradually becoming more outgoing and social, or withdrawing further into their own minds, away from human interaction. The most surprising thing about this book is that despite his claim that he comes across as deadpan and expressionless in person, his writing style is super funny. I found myself laughing frequently at his tales of childhood capers and misunderstandings. His inability to read social cues, and his unconstrained loathing of certain people make for some hilarious stories. I happen to have 4 cousins with this condition, and it gave me a litte more insight and understanding of their behavioral quirks, and their unique intelligences. Compelling read. ...more John Robison always wanted to feel like he belonged. That he was loved and that he could become something. But he also knew that he was a bit odd and couldn't figure out why others saw him in such a weird way. It wasn't until age 40 when a kind friend who happened to be a psychologist tipped him to the fact that he had Aspergers--a diagnosis on the autistic spectrum. In John's memoir he discusses his life, his feelings, his take on the world as he tries to make it from being \"weird\" to \"eccentri John Robison always wanted to feel like he belonged. That he was loved and that he could become something. But he also knew that he was a bit odd and couldn't figure out why others saw him in such a weird way. It wasn't until age 40 when a kind friend who happened to be a psychologist tipped him to the fact that he had Aspergers--a diagnosis on the autistic spectrum. In John's memoir he discusses his life, his feelings, his take on the world as he tries to make it from being \"weird\" to \"eccentric.\" What an eye opening book. As a mother of a high functioning autistic child I was almost in tears during the first couple of chapters as John relates what was going through his mind while others around him thought he was simply a trouble maker. It was amazing to read about some of the things he had gone through--and see the same struggles in my little guy. I was intrigued by so many of his insights into his world--particularly the chapter on \"Becoming Normal.\" Also it was sooo refreshing to hear a man who has this diagnosis state that it does not need a cure--but rather needs understanding and acceptance. Truly an amazing book. I hesitate to recommend it to all just because there is a lot of bad language throughout. However I found the wisdom and knowledge I gained from reading it to be worth it. ...more I've read a few books about Asperger's syndrome and recently when I seen this one in my local library I was interested. It tells the story of John Elder Robison, someone who was diagnosed as adult. It begins with his childhood, moving on to his time with the band KISS to getting a job as an engineer. It also covers his diagnosis, his married life and becoming a parent. My first thought once I finished this was disappointed. It started off well and I was very much interested. Some of the struggle I've read a few books about Asperger's syndrome and recently when I seen this one in my local library I was interested. It tells the story of John Elder Robison, someone who was diagnosed as adult. It begins with his childhood, moving on to his time with the band KISS to getting a job as an engineer. It also covers his diagnosis, his married life and becoming a parent. My first thought once I finished this was disappointed. It started off well and I was very much interested. Some of the struggles he had I could relate to such as school, making friends etc. Even when he talks about people telling him to 'look them in the eye' I can relate to because I had the same problem. When he talked about his parents, I was shocked and felt sorry for him. It must have been hard not having a stable home life. But the time I got to the middle, my attention was starting to go. It is when he talks about fixing up cars and engineering. I just didn't find that interesting at all, and struggled to understand it. The ending and epilogue were better and I found them to be good. Despite the disappointment of this book, I would still be interested in reading more by this author. He is a good writer and can write well. If your interested in reading about what it is like to have Aspergers then I recommend this book. ...more I hate to have to give this book one star as I was very excited to read it. I actually did not finish this book which is saying a lot because I've only put down one other book in my 24 years of life. As a person with Aspergers, I found this book highly offensive. The author does not seem to have ASD at all. I think that he fits the description that he was called in the book of psycho or sociopath much more than any ASD. He has just a few of the traits of someone with Aspergers but with all disor I hate to have to give this book one star as I was very excited to read it. I actually did not finish this book which is saying a lot because I've only put down one other book in my 24 years of life. As a person with Aspergers, I found this book highly offensive. The author does not seem to have ASD at all. I think that he fits the description that he was called in the book of psycho or sociopath much more than any ASD. He has just a few of the traits of someone with Aspergers but with all disorders, symptoms overlap. The author actually seems to be the exact opposite of most the criteria for Aspergers and is nothing like myself or other aspies I know. I couldn't imagine lying and being manipulative, hurting other people or animals, etc. The author also seems to have navigated social situations very well as he has many friends and multiple wives. I hope that no one reads this book knowing nothing about ASD and believes that this is how people with Aspergers act. It is a terrible misrepresentation of a group of people as well as probably a misdiagnosis on the authors part. ...more This is my second educational book in the last couple of months. I normally avoid fiction like the plague. I read for escape, not for knowledge. I'm glad I made the effort again with this book. There were so many parts of the narrative that as I read it I thought, \"I know this person\". \"I can't speak for other kids, bit I'd like to be very clear about my own feelings: I did not ever want to be alone. And all those child psychologists who said \"John prefers to play by himself\" were dead wrong. I p This is my second educational book in the last couple of months. I normally avoid fiction like the plague. I read for escape, not for knowledge. I'm glad I made the effort again with this book. There were so many parts of the narrative that as I read it I thought, \"I know this person\". \"I can't speak for other kids, bit I'd like to be very clear about my own feelings: I did not ever want to be alone. And all those child psychologists who said \"John prefers to play by himself\" were dead wrong. I played by myself because I was a failure at playing with others.\" He manages to step back from his own life and explain his own personality and interactions with others with insight and a certain amount of logic and dispassion that makes it read almost like a manual for talking to someone with Aspergers. ...more I had personal reasons for seeking this book out, but I also was interested because John Elder Robison is Augusten Burrough's brother, and I have read and loved everything Augusten has written. In fact, I emailed Burroughs once telling him how much I enjoyed one of his books and was delighted when he wrote back, and I had a brief back-and-forth with him. I was star-struck. Reading \"Look Me In the Eye\" answered a lot of questions for me about what it's like to live with Asperger's Syndrome. I foun I had personal reasons for seeking this book out, but I also was interested because John Elder Robison is Augusten Burrough's brother, and I have read and loved everything Augusten has written. In fact, I emailed Burroughs once telling him how much I enjoyed one of his books and was delighted when he wrote back, and I had a brief back-and-forth with him. I was star-struck. Reading \"Look Me In the Eye\" answered a lot of questions for me about what it's like to live with Asperger's Syndrome. I found myself reading passages aloud to my husband. The book was funny, sad, endearing, and poignant, but above all, hopeful and enlightening. I have such admiration for Robison. I'm absolutely positive that he's a role model for a lot of people. Even if you don't know anyone with Asperger's Syndrome, this book is a really great read. I'd highly recommend it to anyone. ...more<---C>John Elder Robison</---C><+++>Look Me in the Eye: My Life with Asperger's</+++>", "Title": "Look Me in the Eye: My Life with Asperger's"},
