{"Comments": "Now this is a terrible book. Written with all the wit and grace of a one-legged puppy, <---C>Maximum Ride</---C>: <+++>The Angel Experiment</+++> reveals its intentions within the first chapter alone. This is not a book of striking prose or even serviceable but entertaining MOR lit. It is merely a cash cow, another mindless series designed to appeal to reluctant readers.<---F> It is,<---M> in a word</---M>, soulless</---F>. Maximum Ride follows the adventures of six children, each of whom is the product of a genetic experiment: they are 98% human Now this is a terrible book. Written with all the wit and grace of a one-legged puppy, Maximum Ride: <+++>The Angel Experiment</+++> reveals its intentions within the first chapter alone. This is not a book of striking prose or even serviceable but entertaining MOR lit. It is merely a cash cow, another mindless series designed to appeal to reluctant readers. It is, in a word, soulless. Maximum Ride follows the adventures of six children, each of whom is the product of a genetic experiment: they are 98% human, 2% bird. These characters (each bequeathed with atrocious names that are supposed to be hip - Maximum, Nudge, Iggy, the Gasman, Fang, and Angel) spend 422 pages being chased by \"Erasers\" while trying to discover the secret of the School, the institution responsible for their mutations. 422 pages for what could have been a novella, nay, an essay. The stilted narration, provided by the \"edgy\" Maximum Ride, perhaps one of the most grating heroines in YA literature, is weakened by attempts to provide three-dimensionality to her character through her thoughtful analyses of those around her. Unfortunately, Patterson's creativity as a writer is strictly limited to half-baked and poorly described battle sequences, so Ride's introspection is relegated to heinous platitudes like, \"It was like I had just lost my baby sister. And like I had lost my little girl\" (p.25). (Guess what, Sister Girl... you did .) Because Patterson has made a career out of writing awful books for adults, he has convinced himself that he knows how to write for teens, and, more horribly, like teens. In fact, his writing reads like an old man trying to sound young: \"Angel stared and stared and stared at Jeb Batchelder\" (p. 143) is writing worse than the output of most 2nd graders, and \"Then, in a burst, she leaped up, sprang off the table, and practically crashed through the fire door. The Gasman was practically glued to her back.\" (p. 183) makes me practically tired of bad writing. Worse than the one-dimensional characters and the freakishly awful writing are the countless pages devoted entirely to filler. Hundreds of trees could have been saved if Patterson had employed an editor. Here is a sample of go-nowhere events in the book: \u2022 The gang sees a concert in Central Park. \u2022 The gang enjoys Mrs. Fields' cookies. \u2022 Two characters hang out with a bunch of hawks and learn cool flying tricks, all of which occurs while... \u2022 ...Maximum spends about 8+ chapters with a family in a subplot that appears to tie into the primary story, but, in fact, does not. \u2022 The majority of Chapter 103 is spent enumerating each character's orders in a fancy restaurant in great detail. \u2022 Most of the book is devoted to \"to-ing and fro-ing\" - running from one location to another - with the express purpose of supplying a new setting for a battle. The only upside to Maximum Ride is its appeal to reluctant readers... and I'm all for that. Avid readers, however, be warned. This book will take hours of your life that you will never get back. ...more This is a book I always thought I wouldn\u2019t enjoy. I saw it numerous times at my former high school\u2019s library and, each time I came across it, I would let my fingers linger on the cover, a pensive expression on my face, and think, \u2018\u2018Naaaah, not for me.\u2019\u2019 Boy was I wrong not to read it YEARS ago. \u2018\u2018The Angel Experiment\u2019\u2019 is such a fast-paced, action-packed, well, RIDE. I thought it would be about actual angels, but that\u2019s not what Max and her friends are. They are literal experiments with bird genes This is a book I always thought I wouldn\u2019t enjoy. I saw it numerous times at my former high school\u2019s library and, each time I came across it, I would let my fingers linger on the cover, a pensive expression on my face, and think, \u2018\u2018Naaaah, not for me.\u2019\u2019 Boy was I wrong not to read it YEARS ago. \u2018\u2018The Angel Experiment\u2019\u2019 is such a fast-paced, action-packed, well, RIDE. I thought it would be about actual angels, but that\u2019s not what Max and her friends are. They are literal experiments with bird genes in their blood. How messed up is that? But hey, they have crazy superpowers and\u2026 ALL OF THEM CAN FLY. I thought Catwoman was pretty awesome with her ability to jump great lengths and move like a cat, but nothing beats being able to fly. It\u2019s definitely an enthralling read. The action is ever present; things are always moving, always progressing. Granted, for most of the book, there\u2019s this game of cat and mouse going on, so that can get repetitive, but there are many other things happening. Max\u2019s voice is a young one, but that\u2019s normal since she\u2019s fourteen years old. We can\u2019t really expect her to be devoid of immaturity. Still, she\u2019s strong, brave and loyal to her friends. And isn\u2019t it refreshing to read YA novels without romance? SO refreshing. BUT, I think there will be more of it in the sequels\u2026 Give this a shot if you have some time to kill and are curious about mutants like \u2018\u2018The Fantastic Four\u2019\u2019 (but with cooler superpowers!). Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin\u2019 ...more OK. I thought this was going to be a lame cheese fest. I mean, <---A>James Patterson</---A>? I know kids seem to like the series OK, and even a couple adults have recommended it to me. But I figured it wasn't my bag. I'm not sure why. Genetically engineered mutant kids with wings escaping from evil scientists and fighting super strong werewolf-like soldiers. What's not to like? I couldn't put it down. Fast paced, exciting, kind of horrifying and a lot better written than I expected. I'm totally reading the n OK. I thought this was going to be a lame cheese fest. I mean, James Patterson? I know kids seem to like the series OK, and even a couple adults have recommended it to me. But I figured it wasn't my bag. I'm not sure why. Genetically engineered mutant kids with wings escaping from evil scientists and fighting super strong werewolf-like soldiers. What's not to like? I couldn't put it down. Fast paced, exciting, kind of horrifying and a lot better written than I expected. I'm totally reading the next book. In fact, I can't wait to read it. ...more Take a bit of the child-like innocence vs. evil of Harry Potter , some of the artificially-created destiny from Ender's Game , throw in the flying fantasies from Eragon and mix them in with Patterson's trademark flippant characterization, and you've got Maximum Ride. This is the book I'm going to recommend when everyone's recovering from the end of Harry Potter later this month. Really. It's that good. And the best part is there are two more books after this one. There's already a waiting list for Take a bit of the child-like innocence vs. evil of Harry Potter , some of the artificially-created destiny from Ender's Game , throw in the flying fantasies from Eragon and mix them in with Patterson's trademark flippant characterization, and you've got Maximum Ride. This is the book I'm going to recommend when everyone's recovering from the end of Harry Potter later this month. Really. It's that good. And the best part is there are two more books after this one. There's already a waiting list for my copy. Premise: six kids bred with avian DNA in a lab (which explains their superstrength and their wings) escape in pursuit of a life as normal kids, as normal as you can get without parents. Written for teens, so it's automatically a fun and fast read. Definitely worth the time, even if there's a few places where continuity and plausibility are challenged. ...more \u201cThe funny thing about facing imminent death is that it really snaps everything else into perspective.\u201d Well that was fun, i LOVED MAX she was great annoying at times but funny and loving big sister.The writing was okay, The story was awesome. 2.5 Stars! This book was okay, but I just felt like it didn't have a lot of substance. I didn't really take anything away from it, almost like it didn't have a lot of deep meaning. And it wasn't terribly entertaining, either. I just would have liked the characters to be a little deeper, I guess. I doubt I will read the rest of the series. Reviewed for: http://inthehammockblog.blogspot.com/ I want you, the reader, to take a moment and scroll down to the lists this novel has been shelved in. \u201cBest Young Adult Books,\u201d \u201cBest Books Ever,\u201d \u201cWhat To Read After Harry Potter,\u201d \u201cBest Female Lead Characters,\u201d and \u201cBest Science Fiction & Fantasy Books\u201d. If you haven\u2019t guessed by the titles, these are pretty big and popular lists. If you click into them and view the lists, you will see that this book is pretty high up the ranks. And if you looked behind the book, you\u2019ll see raving review a I want you, the reader, to take a moment and scroll down to the lists this novel has been shelved in. \u201cBest Young Adult Books,\u201d \u201cBest Books Ever,\u201d \u201cWhat To Read After Harry Potter,\u201d \u201cBest Female Lead Characters,\u201d and \u201cBest Science Fiction & Fantasy Books\u201d. If you haven\u2019t guessed by the titles, these are pretty big and popular lists. If you click into them and view the lists, you will see that this book is pretty high up the ranks. And if you looked behind the book, you\u2019ll see raving review after raving review. If you looked inside, you will see MORE raving reviews telling you that Maximum is a soaring story that will sweep you off your feet, etcetera etcetera. This book reminds me to the ad for Kellogg's Rice Krispies Squares. They would say the most fabulous things about the product, and then would turn around at the very end they say in a big, booming voice; I was lead to believe I was about to read a soaring adventure novel filled with damaged characters who stick together out of both love for each other and fear of their enemies. I thought I was going to read about the horrors they went though, and the horrors they\u2019d have to face. I thought this book would make me feel the magic of flying, to make me truly understand the meaning of freedom. This book lied to me \u2013 it lied right in my face. It told me it was a Christmas Dinner with juicy turkey and ham and lobster and chocolaty dessert but instead I got a plate of brussel sprouts. What I got was a pathetic and one-dimensional cast of character (who seemed mentally sound even after their years of abuse), unclear and unemotional writing, poor action scenes, has no depth whatsoever and lacks simple life to it. While I was reading it I felt like I was reading the writing of a reluctant reader or the back of a cereal box. It lacks character to it. One single paragraph written in simply for humour was what really ruined the book for me. It was the paragraph that made me almost cry at the lost of the money I spent on this book. \u201cAm I tough? Am I strong? Am I hard-core? Absolutely. Did I whimper with pathetic delight when I sank my teeth into my hot fried-chicken sandwich? You betcha.\u201d Your probably reading that quote and wondering what\u2019s wrong with it, aren\u2019t you? Let me paint you a picture first, and then I will ruin that quote with some of my logic. The main character, Max, is part human part bird. Before this quote was written they had spent several days hiding out on some cliffs with a couple of wild hawks. On and on they went, telling the reader how fascinating these creatures were and what they learned from them. They all even call themselves The Flock . Then, zoom on a hundred-or-so pages and Max is munching down on some fried chicken. So; she\u2019s part bird, spent most of her time with birds, and calls her family the flock. Oh yes, now you can see where I\u2019m going to go. Chickens are birds. So Max \u2013 a half bird girl \u2013 is eating a bird, and is completely cool with it. Relishes it, in fact. Yeah. Solid thinking there from the author. That quote also shows you how shallow the characters are, because Max continues to tell us how \"spunky\" and \"feisty\" she is. But does she actually show these characteristics? Nope. Unless you count the truly horrendously bad come-backs she made. In many way's she reminds me of Celeana from Throne of Glass . Talks the talk but never truly walks the walk. The rest of The Flock merge together, most having no real purpose to the story. What does the sweet little Angel do? Nothing. What does the Gasman bring? Nothing but farts. Iggy? He made something explode. Nothing after that. And I can't tell you the rest of the characters, because I have forgotten their names. Just shows you how much these people stick in your mind. The plot mainly featured weird twists, confusing battle scenes, constant running and flying away, and useless scenes. Another reviewer named Joe wrapped up the useless scenes perfectly. There's a concert scene, a family sub-plot that has no real reason of existing, and many chapters wasted by them spending days with hawks (I'm pretty sure I've mentioned that before). I hope your happy, Mr Patterson. You tricked me into thinking that you would take the more emotionally powerful and moving route with a dash of action and adventure, and for your trickery I will award you with this; this shall be my first and last book of yours. Your welcome and good day. ...more Do Not Finish at page 145. I want to finish this book, but after a while I remember life is too short for reading one crappy book after another. If I read The Angel Experiment when I was 12 years old, I guess I would have been oh-so impressed. But readers who possess the mental maturity of a 13 years old or above are free to skip this book. And James Patterson, I'm blacklisting you. I will not read any other of your books. Trick me one, shame on you; trick me twice, shame on me. Nothing massively wrong with it but the writing was just way too young for me. This is a really terrible book. It's even worse than the whole Twilight and Eragon series combined together. The plot is extremely obnoxious, it features cardboard characters, and it has awfully absurd twists. It's dialogues are really horrible, like an old man trying very hard to sound young. this book is very,very,very badly written. A 12 year old could probably do better. The battle scenes , if you could call them that, are also poorly written and not realistic. Not even in the least. This book This is a really terrible book. It's even worse than the whole Twilight and Eragon series combined together. The plot is extremely obnoxious, it features cardboard characters, and it has awfully absurd twists. It's dialogues are really horrible, like an old man trying very hard to sound young. this book is very,very,very badly written. A 12 year old could probably do better. The battle scenes , if you could call them that, are also poorly written and not realistic. Not even in the least. This book is oh-so very boring and fails to entertain. Also, most of the plot was wasted on insignificant fillers. I won't recommend this book to anyone. ...more One of my students recommended this book, and while I was intrigued by the premise, and the fact that the protagonist is a female action hero, I found the dialogue beyond basic (only an adult would imagine that kids really communicate like this) and the plot was a liitle repetitious. it's part of a trilogy - but I don't care enough about these characters to read more. Reader thoughts: Max is a sarcastic and tough teen with amazing wings. She's leader of her flock of bird kids, and they work hard to stay away from the troublesome adult scientists. Max struggles to keep her flock together, discover her destiny, and save the world while she's at it. Finding their parents would be a nice bonus, too, if only the whitecoats would stop trying to kill them. (Sadly, only the first 3 books of the series are good. But they are so good!) Writer thoughts: It's amazing that Reader thoughts: Max is a sarcastic and tough teen with amazing wings. She's leader of her flock of bird kids, and they work hard to stay away from the troublesome adult scientists. Max struggles to keep her flock together, discover her destiny, and save the world while she's at it. Finding their parents would be a nice bonus, too, if only the whitecoats would stop trying to kill them. (Sadly, only the first 3 books of the series are good. But they are so good!) Writer thoughts: It's amazing that JP can pull off such a fast-paced book with so many hilarious and sarcastic comments. The pacing and timing blend very well to push the reader to the end without thought for the outside world. However, there is little to no resolution in any of these books, which catches up the readers in book 4. It's like in Series of Unfortunate Events; loose ends can only be interesting for so long. Random is fast and creates mystery, but it doesn't create satisfaction. ...more Whoa!!! This book is sooo good. It's really, really, REALLY fast-paced and action-packed. Even the very first chapter throws you headfirst into straight-on action. It's a very easy read, with short chapters that flow right into the other with cliffhangers. It's not something you can start/stop reading; once you start, there's no turning bag. You're dragged into the story from the very first page, willingly or not, and nothing can tear you from the book- only forceful things, like school, homewor Whoa!!! This book is sooo good. It's really, really, REALLY fast-paced and action-packed. Even the very first chapter throws you headfirst into straight-on action. It's a very easy read, with short chapters that flow right into the other with cliffhangers. It's not something you can start/stop reading; once you start, there's no turning bag. You're dragged into the story from the very first page, willingly or not, and nothing can tear you from the book- only forceful things, like school, homework, parents, etc. While reading this book, I experienced rushes and throbbing through my head at all the excitement, thrill, and suspense. It felt like watching an intense action movie. And the end is a huge cliffhanger, making me sure that I'm going to attack the next book right away! This is good for anyone who wants to read a good, fast, exciting action book! :D ...more Warning: If you dare to read his story, you become part of the Experiment. I know that sounds a little mysterious- but it\u2019s all I can say right now. -Max I read a lot of Patterson adult thrillers, and after a while, I kind of got bored of him (I mean how many sequels can a book have?!). So, with that said, I had really low expectations for this one, but the book really took me by surprise. This book is just pure fun. 400 pages of action packed fun, that leaves you wanting more. I also found out that I Warning: If you dare to read his story, you become part of the Experiment. I know that sounds a little mysterious- but it\u2019s all I can say right now. -Max I read a lot of Patterson adult thrillers, and after a while, I kind of got bored of him (I mean how many sequels can a book have?!). So, with that said, I had really low expectations for this one, but the book really took me by surprise. This book is just pure fun. 400 pages of action packed fun, that leaves you wanting more. I also found out that I like 'young adult' Patterson more than 'adult' Patterson, if that makes any sense. Max was such a fun character. To me, she is literally female version of Percy Jackson. I loved hearing her sarcastic and snarky tone throughout the whole story. I also love that chapters were short, and there was a cliffhanger at the end of each one. Because of that, it was very difficult to put the book down. I think I would've finish it in one sitting if life didn't get in the way. If you like to read action packed, quick books, I suggest giving this a try, and hopefully, you'll like it as much as I did. ...more The only reason this book doesn't get five stars from me is because I'm so confused by some things. But I liked it A LOT. A lot a lot. First, I didn't feel like it really went anywhere. It's like you can tell it's trying to go somewhere but it's not really doing it. Basically, this book was just full of the flock running, getting caught, running, getting beat up, running, getting chased by the cops, running... Over and over. After a while it was kind of predictable (not to mention painful). It t The only reason this book doesn't get five stars from me is because I'm so confused by some things. But I liked it A LOT. A lot a lot. First, I didn't feel like it really went anywhere. It's like you can tell it's trying to go somewhere but it's not really doing it. Basically, this book was just full of the flock running, getting caught, running, getting beat up, running, getting chased by the cops, running... Over and over. After a while it was kind of predictable (not to mention painful). It took me a while to realize the focal point of the book: finding out who their parents are. Once I finally got THAT, it was a little easier. James Patterson proves to be an expert with making great characters. Max has a sarcastic sense of humor that I love. This book was definitely entertaining, and I love the characters...LOVE them. That being said, Angel is a little annoying. I'm kind of mean, but if I see a little kid in Wal-Mart whining and demanding a toy it just grates on my nerves like nothing else. I try to cut her a break, since she's a six year old...but it's still aggravating. And the mind control thing is just creepy. But I LOVED this book. I'm definitely reading the next one. I just can't quite let myself add it to my \"favorites\" shelf. ...more 1.5 stars. On the \"plus\" side, this novel has a very interesting premise and the book was a very fast read. On the \"negative\" side, there is not a whole lot of substance to the story and the character development is weak. I was really hoping that the author would do something really great with the very cool concept of children genetically enhanced with avain DNA, but it just didn't happen. Bottom-line, the book, while not horrible, was one I really didn't like. The book is about a group of 6 kids who are pretty normal except they are 98% human and 2% bird! They have wings, can fly, and also posses super-human talents. They were created at a place called the \u201cSchool\u201d. They lived there as experiments until Jeb, a human scientist set them free. Each member of this group has been created with super-human abilities like great speed, strength, physic powers, and flight. Angel, the youngest who is telepathic and can breathe underwater, is kidnapped by Erasers The book is about a group of 6 kids who are pretty normal except they are 98% human and 2% bird! They have wings, can fly, and also posses super-human talents. They were created at a place called the \u201cSchool\u201d. They lived there as experiments until Jeb, a human scientist set them free. Each member of this group has been created with super-human abilities like great speed, strength, physic powers, and flight. Angel, the youngest who is telepathic and can breathe underwater, is kidnapped by Erasers. Erasers are part human and part wolf and were also created at the School. The head of the Erasers is a kid name Ari. Max sets off to save Angel and on the way she see a girl getting bullied so she goes to help her and ends up getting shot in her wing. The girl, Ella, convinces Max to come home with her and she does. Ella\u2019s mom, Dr. Martinez helps Max and takes her to hospital to get help. There they discover that Max has a tracer in her arm that cannot be removed. When Max meets up with the rest of the flock they start to travel to the school again and end up getting attacked by the Erasers. The erasers kidnap all of them except but Iggy and Gazzy. Max is brought back to the school and finds Jeb there where he discovers he was created to save the world. Finally Iggy and Gazzy show up with a flock of hawks and escape from the school. They discover another place called the Institute that knows about the flock and that they might have parents. Max begins to get very sick and has head pains. She can\u2019t move, talk nor walk. Again the Erasers show up and Jeb is there. He tells Max that she needs to save the world and demands all the Erasers to leave. Max goes into the Institute and discovers that everyone of the Flock has a real name, parents. He prints out the list and realizes everyone lived near Washington, D.C.. They decide to head to D.C. but Ari tries to stop them. Max and Ari fight and then they hear a crack. Ari has broken his neck and dies. Jeb yells to Max, \u201cyou killed your own brother!\u201d The Flock finally heads to D.C. and takes a dog from the institute, Total, with them. Strengths (including reviews and awards): James Patterson is an amazing author who was recently named \u201cThe Mand Who Can\u2019t Miss\u201d by Times Magazine. He was the creator of the #1 new detective series of the past 5 years Maximum Ride series spent 20 weeks on the New York Timess best sellers lists and 14 of them were at #1. The main character is a girl who is powerful & strong, and it\u2019s a horror & science fiction book which can help get girls involved! Drawbacks or other cautions: It seemed a little too impossible the way the characters super-human talents showed up right when they needed them. There was a lot going on throughout the book and then the ending ended very abruptly. I didn\u2019t like the ending at all\u2026 but I\u2019ll have to read the next series. ...more Alright, I thought the narration on this book was way cheesy initially. But, like the bookcrazy girl I am who is a sucker for a good story, I got sucked in. This book is many things: *Fun aimed at kids, but fun that an adult who isn't terribly cynical and superior could enjoy. *Penetrating, insightful look at human nature and society (don't laugh--it is). *Utterly disturbing view of the unscrupulous applications of modern science. I truly did feel my stomach lurch at some of the experimentation on Alright, I thought the narration on this book was way cheesy initially. But, like the bookcrazy girl I am who is a sucker for a good story, I got sucked in. This book is many things: *Fun aimed at kids, but fun that an adult who isn't terribly cynical and superior could enjoy. *Penetrating, insightful look at human nature and society (don't laugh--it is). *Utterly disturbing view of the unscrupulous applications of modern science. I truly did feel my stomach lurch at some of the experimentation on children that the white coats were doing. What do we allow to happen in the name of the god of progress? *Fast-paced adventure *An exploration of a family that doesn't meet the typical, Leave it to Beaver definition. The six members of the Flock soon found their way into my heart. I hurt for them when they suffered, and feared for their safety, and cheered them for their successes. I loved all of them: Max, Fang (he's pretty droolworthy for a fourteen year old--I think I would be crushing if I was that age), Iggie, Gasman, Nudge and Angel (adorable and kind of scary in some ways). They make quite a team. Max is a really awesome main character. I think she's a great role model for young girls. Her self-sacrifice and her determination to protect her family is admirable. She's a sharp, adaptable girl. Oh yeah. The flying is pretty awesome. It made me almost wish I had wings...well, sort of. Warnings: *Violence involving the kids and their scary pursuers *Some questionable actions (that these kids exhibit to survive) that most parents probably wouldn't want promoted or justified to their kids, such as stealing and destruction of property. I think the way it was handled is okay, as long as a concerned parent makes it clear that this isn't acceptable behavior outside of the circumstances of this book. *As I mentioned above, the author isn't shy about mentioning human experimentation, and on children, no less. A younger reader might find that pretty disturbing. I know I did, and I'm not particularly young (late thirties). ...Yeah. So I admit I got won over. This book gets four stars from me. It's actually very good. The chapters are really short, but don't let that fool you into thinking that content in this book is neglible. There is a lot to this book. It's not even what I would consider easily digestible. The author uses a lot of sophisticated vocabulary, which is great. I'm all for kids (of all ages) looking up words. Best way to expand your vocabulary. I would recommend this to readers who are younger or who enjoy books aimed at a younger audience. It has a lot of adventure and action, and very likable characters. My eyes are on the lookout for the rest of the books in this series. ...more Title: The Angel Experiment Author: James Patterson Series: Maximum Ride #1 Rating: \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 Summary: In James Patterson's blockbuster series, fourteen-year-old Maximum Ride, better known as Max, knows what it's like to soar above the world. She and all the members of the \"flock\"--Fang, Iggy, Nudge, Gasman and Angel--are just like ordinary kids--only they have wings and can fly. It may seem like a dream come true to some, but their lives can morph into a living nightmare at any time...like when Angel, Title: The Angel Experiment Author: James Patterson Series: Maximum Ride #1 Rating: \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 Summary: In James Patterson's blockbuster series, fourteen-year-old Maximum Ride, better known as Max, knows what it's like to soar above the world. She and all the members of the \"flock\"--Fang, Iggy, Nudge, Gasman and Angel--are just like ordinary kids--only they have wings and can fly. It may seem like a dream come true to some, but their lives can morph into a living nightmare at any time...like when Angel, the youngest member of the flock, is kidnapped and taken back to the \"School\" where she and the others were experimented on by a crew of wack jobs. Her friends brave a journey to blazing hot Death Valley, CA, to save Angel, but soon enough, they find themselves in yet another nightmare--this one involving fighting off the half-human, half-wolf \"Erasers\" in New York City. Whether in the treetops of Central Park or in the bowels of the Manhattan subway system, Max and her adopted family take the ride of their lives. Along the way Max discovers from her old friend and father figure Jeb - now her betrayed and greatest enemy - that her purpose is save the world--but can she? Review: At first, I sadly admit to abandoning this book. I think I was so hooked on saving Angel from the School that once they accomplished that, it should have ended. But then they were talking about the Institute and blah, blah, blah...I just was a teensy bit disappointed. But I loved it the second round. And the third. :) Things I Loved: Max. She's such a strong leader, and a hilarious one. Her sarcasm and side thoughts crack me up on ever page. I'm fond of her thinking and her bravery to protect her family. I'm eager to see what she evolves into and how she deals with it. Fang. My first impression of him is this too-cool-for-you type guy. But really he's just shy in a not-shy kind-of way. He's ready to fight whenever, which isn't shy at all. But feelings? As far as I know, he doesn't express them. You gotta work on that, Fang. Iggy. Aww, I love Iggy. He's so, teenager-ish. I mean, there's really no other way to put it. He and his little sidekick the Gasman like to get into trouble. It's amazing what you can do when your blind, especially with Iggy. He's this mischievious whiz kid. The Gasman. Even typing it makes me laugh. He's just as mischievious as Iggy, always getting into trouble, the two of them. They have this cute brother relationship and I love it. It's adorable to watch them. Nudge. The hungry one. Haha, nah, Nudge is so sweet. I love how she's just this down-to-earth type kid. And she kicks butt. What's cuter? And Angel. OHMYGOD Angel, I JUST WANT TO HUG YOU!! She's so adorable! I mean, GAH, she's SO DANG CUTE AND INNOCENT! It's funny how she hasn't picked up any curses with Max's potty mouth. :D Things I Hated: I wish I had loved it the first time reading it... :( ...more A bizarre plot with a terrible beginning. Without any sort of background we are plunged into action. It works for Riordan but unfortunately not here. Could not bring myself to read past the first 20 pages. P.S - Mr. Patterson? Kids do NOT speak like that. You just sound like an adult trying too hard to talk in a way he thinks kids these days might talk. Bad sentence formation just now, you say? Yeah, that about sums up your book. It would've been enjoyable if I didn't read the manga and got all the spoilers from that. Also, the chapters weren't very effective when it came to the cliffhangers at the end of it because there were 3 pages in every chapter or less. Personally, I enjoyed this a little less than the manga because it was perfect in that form. It's a very action packed book that deserves the pictures in that manga. THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST BOOK SERIES IN THE UNIVERSE OF HUMAN (AND OTHER) KIND!!!!!! yeah.....IM NOT OBSESIVE!! read them.... This is my first James Patterson, so I'm not entirely sure about his writing style, but I guess the way he's written this book was as if it was the protagonist. Patterson writes in the voice of the girl hero Maximum Ride, and ends mostly with small cliffhangers, which compels the readers to continue reading. (I couldn't really put it down; I kept wanting to find out what happened to the characters.) Patterson didn't only place small cliffhangers at the end of the chapters, he added a huge one for This is my first James Patterson, so I'm not entirely sure about his writing style, but I guess the way he's written this book was as if it was the protagonist. Patterson writes in the voice of the girl hero Maximum Ride, and ends mostly with small cliffhangers, which compels the readers to continue reading. (I couldn't really put it down; I kept wanting to find out what happened to the characters.) Patterson didn't only place small cliffhangers at the end of the chapters, he added a huge one for the next (few?) books; that Max was destined to save the world. So far, there is nothing on that. While reading this book, another book came to mind: The Bar Code Tattoo . In both, the experiment of combining avian and human genes were present, as were there being six \"members\". For both, one of the members were blind, and there were superpowers for them. As for the rest, it's better if you read it. I want to continue this series for various reasons: 1. I want to see how she saves the world; 2. there's the whole \"mutant\" thing, and 3. it's part of a series (I'm sort of a sucker for series). ...more I usually really enjoy YA books but this one was more young than it was adult and occasionally irritating because of that. Initially I thought I had picked up the series on the second book because of constant references to what has happened before. I ended up wondering why the author had not started his story at the beginning. His characters were also very poorly drawn which made it difficult to be concerned about any of them. The story did become reasonably exciting and I read through to the en I usually really enjoy YA books but this one was more young than it was adult and occasionally irritating because of that. Initially I thought I had picked up the series on the second book because of constant references to what has happened before. I ended up wondering why the author had not started his story at the beginning. His characters were also very poorly drawn which made it difficult to be concerned about any of them. The story did become reasonably exciting and I read through to the end. I will not however be reading any more of the series. I like James Patterson ' s adult books but will steer clear of his YA ones.y ...more - I need to go on a re-reviewing spree soon. Gosh, my old review made me sound like a huge idiot. YAY. This will be fun. - Slightly Snarky review to come. Definitely do not feel the same way about it as I did in Middle School. Update: I didn't finish this book the second time around. And I've come to the realization that my Middle School self had different tastes and opinions than my current self. What's that? You want to me to provide some examples? Well, if you insist... Here are my opinions on.... THE PLOT Middle School self: OMGersh, so exciting! Current, sarcastic self: While hearing everyone talk to each other abou Slightly Snarky review to come. Definitely do not feel the same way about it as I did in Middle School. Update: I didn't finish this book the second time around. And I've come to the realization that my Middle School self had different tastes and opinions than my current self. What's that? You want to me to provide some examples? Well, if you insist... Here are my opinions on.... THE PLOT Middle School self: OMGersh, so exciting! Current, sarcastic self: While hearing everyone talk to each other about the same things for 10 chapters is exhilarating, some action might be good right now. Mostly, it's just... \ufeff Blah blah blah blah me me me. MAX Middle School self: I want to be JUST. LIKE. HER. Elder, enlightened self: Eh, she's kinda cool, I guess. Funny, too. But she talks a lot. And likes to tell us how bad their situation is and how much the flock needs her, and how they have to save Angel. I wanted to bonk her on the head and say, \"Too much thinking. Not enough doing.\" FANG Middle School self: Ooh, he's so mysterious and cool! I just don't know what the flock would do without him! He's so Fangalicious!(I kid. I never used that word.) Bitterer, more cynical self: All he does is brood. Why is he so broody? Is something wrong with his tongue? Hey, Mister Grumpy Gills. THE WRITING Middle School self: This is so brilliant and funny and easy to read! Wiser self: What is this repetitive nonsense? It's the same thing, dragging on and on... I....still don't see the point of anything. THE MULTIPLE POINTS OF VIEW Middle School self: *gasps* I LOVE ALL OF THESE PEOPLE! Older, more mature self: This is so unnecessary. Why must I listen to Fang and Nudge have a meaningless(one-sided) conversation when I could be in Max's head while she's supposedly saving the day? MY OVERALL OPINION Middle School self: Current self: SWIM. AWAY. *Hangs head* I know. I'm being snarky. I got through maybe the first quarter of the book and decided that I wouldn't spoil my feelings towards the rest of the series. While the part that I reread was agonizing, I want the flock to stay awesome in my memory. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go find a dark corner to weep in. I'm sorry if I've bruised any feelings. Originally posted at The Scribbling Sprite ...more I read The Angel Experiment several years ago, back when the Maximum Ride series was first beginning. It was recommended to me by a friend and I thought that it might be a worthy imaginative children's fiction novel (what is now coming to be dominated by YA novels). I found that again, as with other YA novels, it was a work of fiction with a strong idea yet poor execution. Now, I do love some works of fiction where the ideas are brilliant and the execution could be a touch better. For instance M I read The Angel Experiment several years ago, back when the Maximum Ride series was first beginning. It was recommended to me by a friend and I thought that it might be a worthy imaginative children's fiction novel (what is now coming to be dominated by YA novels). I found that again, as with other YA novels, it was a work of fiction with a strong idea yet poor execution. Now, I do love some works of fiction where the ideas are brilliant and the execution could be a touch better. For instance Mistborn: The Final Empire * as a favourite fantasy series has several areas where the plot is a touch weak and the magic fails a little. That said the execution is mostly perfect in my view, however in this book the execution errs on the side of being lazy or perhaps...more patronising for the child readers Patterson writes for. Again, a book that I would say is fine to read, in fact it's better than some trashy novels I've read for certain. Is it amazingly brilliant? Absolutely not. In fact the latter entries become weaker and weaker as the writing becomes more patronising, romance (particularly in a YA love triangle) rears its head in a bad way and Patterson resorts to filling in his plots with ideological rambling about saving the environment and making this world a nicer place. All good things to be sure but the way he does it is preachy and takes away from the story. *Bet you didn't expect me to link Mistborn and Maximum Ride in a review did you! ...more This series is a mess. The author took it in such a weird direction and really should have stopped after 3 books. However, this series (especially this book) was actually the reason I got so heavily into reading. I was in grade 6 at school (age 11) when my friend in grade 7 told me they were reading this book in class. I begged mum to buy it for me because my friend really loved it. By the time I got to grade 7 and read it in class, I had already read the first 3 books in the series. I actually This series is a mess. The author took it in such a weird direction and really should have stopped after 3 books. However, this series (especially this book) was actually the reason I got so heavily into reading. I was in grade 6 at school (age 11) when my friend in grade 7 told me they were reading this book in class. I begged mum to buy it for me because my friend really loved it. By the time I got to grade 7 and read it in class, I had already read the first 3 books in the series. I actually made my best friend read them too and she borrowed them from me and we used to fangirl over them. Prior to reading this, I only read really short novels - around 100-200 pages long. This was, what I would call, my first real novel. Also, it really opened my eyes to the fantasy world. I know a lot of people fell in love with reading through harry potter but I guess my reading journey was a little bit different! As much as this series is all over the place and crazy, I really owe my love for reading to it and it will always hold a very special place in my heart. ...more Summary: Genetically engineered Max and her friends are 98% human and 2% bird. An adventure story about young adults struggling to survive and discovering whom they are and why they were created along the way. Personal Response: A very fun and engaging book. I do not know of anyone that has not dreamed they could fly. The characters are enjoyable and the special bond they have with each other and feel they're longing to belong to a family engages you. The characters make the reader think about wh Summary: \tGenetically engineered Max and her friends are 98% human and 2% bird. An adventure story about young adults struggling to survive and discovering whom they are and why they were created along the way. Personal Response: \tA very fun and engaging book. I do not know of anyone that has not dreamed they could fly. The characters are enjoyable and the special bond they have with each other and feel they're longing to belong to a family engages you. The characters make the reader think about what hate is and what purpose does it serve. ...more I'm not 100% sure but I'm almost certain I read these about four years ago - borrowing them out from the local library and anxiously waiting for the next one. I heard this has been mad into a movie, with Jenna Marbles as an executive producer, so I kind of want to do a re-read. Just fun facts in a pointless pre-review.", "Title": "The Angel Experiment"},
