{"Comments": "<+++>The Lost City of Z: A Tale of Deadly Obsession in the Amazon</+++>We\u2019ve all been wrong on this whole rainforest issue. We don\u2019t need to SAVE the rainforest.<---F> We need to DESTROY the rainforest</---F>. Immediately. I knew that the Amazon was a hostile environment, but I was really shocked at the variety of horrific ways that the jungle will kill a person. You\u2019ve got your standard malaria and yellow fever. Then there\u2019s the piranha,<---M> the electric eels</---M>, the anacondas, the coral snakes or the poisonous toads that are so toxic that one of them could kill a hundred people. Sti We\u2019ve all been wrong on this whole rainforest issue. We don\u2019t need to SAVE the rainforest. We need to DESTROY the rainforest. Immediately. I knew that the Amazon was a hostile environment, but I was really shocked at the variety of horrific ways that the jungle will kill a person. You\u2019ve got your standard malaria and yellow fever. Then there\u2019s the piranha, the electric eels, the anacondas, the coral snakes or the poisonous toads that are so toxic that one of them could kill a hundred people. Still not convinced? How about the tiny fish that will swim into any orifice and proceed to do things so terrible that sometimes men had to be castrated to survive. That\u2019s not even talking about the bugs. Sure, the mosquitoes spread disease, but there\u2019s also a variety of maggot that will infect living tissue. Ants that can eat your clothes in a single night. Chiggers that eat human tissue. Cyanide squirting millipedes. Parasitic worms that cause blindness. Bugs that plant larvae under the skin where it will hatch later. \u2018Kissing bugs\u2019 that bite the lips but the victim doesn\u2019t die until 20 years later when their brain or heart swells. Even if that doesn\u2019t kill you, you\u2019d probably starve to death in what is described as a counterfeit paradise. Because even though there\u2019s all kinds of plants and animals, good luck finding anything edible. Avoid the animals, the disease, the bugs, injury, and starving to death, and you\u2019re still screwed when hostile natives catch you, eat you and use your skull as their favorite coffee mug. To hell with the Amazon. Burn or bulldoze all of it and sow the earth with salt. That treacherous hellhole has to be obliterated before it can spread. And I don\u2019t want to hear about global warming or any nonsense about generating most of the world\u2019s oxygen. We can breathe shallow, people! Old Percy Fawcett was a veteran explorer who mounted several expeditions into the Amazon and somehow managed to escape with his life. But he got obsessed with finding the mythical ruins of an El Dorado-type city and led his son and another poor bastard to some kind of gruesome deaths. The mystery of what happened to him led to countless deaths from other dumb asses trekking into the jungle to look for them. The guy who wrote the book knew all this and he was still stupid enough to go in there. He somehow lived through it, but I think the message is clear. Stay out! ...more Be careful when you pick this book up. You won\u2019t want to put it down. In 1925, Percy Harrison Fawcett, armed with information only he had unearthed, accompanied by his son, his son\u2019s best friend and a small company of bearers and support personnel, headed off into the Amazonian wilderness in search of a large, ancient, fabled city, the City of Z. Fawcett, his son, Jack, and Jack\u2019s friend, Raleigh, were never seen again. There were many attempts by later explorers of varying levels of expertise t Be careful when you pick this book up. You won\u2019t want to put it down. In 1925, Percy Harrison Fawcett, armed with information only he had unearthed, accompanied by his son, his son\u2019s best friend and a small company of bearers and support personnel, headed off into the Amazonian wilderness in search of a large, ancient, fabled city, the City of Z. Fawcett, his son, Jack, and Jack\u2019s friend, Raleigh, were never seen again. There were many attempts by later explorers of varying levels of expertise to find Fawcett, or at least to learn definitively of his fate. Professional writer <---A>David Grann</---A> joins that horde, armed with little or no experience as an outdoorsman and having his athletic prowess honed by years as a subway-riding resident of Brooklyn. Not, perhaps, the likeliest starting point. He sets out on a strenuous enterprise in an attempt to explain this 80 year old mystery. The author While Grann\u2019s book is non-fiction, it reads like an H. Rider Haggard action adventure novel. You will feel palpable excitement as Grann digs up first one then another then another clue as to where Fawcett might have wound up. He follows research directions ignored or unsuspected by prior investigators, to great advantage. I won\u2019t spoil the ending by telling what he does or does not find. That is almost beside the point. It is the journey that counts here, and part of that journey is the window Grann offers on a part of the history of exploration, the sort of people who were drawn to it, their reasons, their personalities, the effect of their quests (<---B>or obsessions, depending</---B>) on their careers, families and on the body of human knowledge. We learn also of competing theories about the potential for the Amazon to support a large, urban population. Grann shows, as well, the challenges, the horrors of trying to traverse one of the most unwelcoming areas on earth. This is a very entertaining, very informative and very engaging journey. ============================= EXTRA STUFF Links to the author\u2019s personal , Twitter and FB pages> Once Hidden by Forest, Carvings in Land Attest to Amazon\u2019s Lost World New York Times: January 14, 2012 ...more This will make you feel like a kid again! It will ignite a Jonny Quest kind of desire for adventure, to dive into the jungle in search of lost worlds. This will also quench most desires to ever take one step closer to a jungle. \"Z\" is supposedly a long lost South American city of a once powerful people. Think El Dorado. Did it ever really exist? Finding out was the self-imposed task of an almost legend of a man who lives up to the myth: Famous British explorer Percy Harrison Fawcett... A military m This will make you feel like a kid again! It will ignite a Jonny Quest kind of desire for adventure, to dive into the jungle in search of lost worlds. This will also quench most desires to ever take one step closer to a jungle. \"Z\" is supposedly a long lost South American city of a once powerful people. Think El Dorado. Did it ever really exist? Finding out was the self-imposed task of an almost legend of a man who lives up to the myth: Famous British explorer Percy Harrison Fawcett... A military man with an athlete's physique and a cast iron constitution, Fawcett made the perfect explorer. As fortune would have it, he lived in a time and place where conquering the last of our Earth's unknowns was in high fashion: Victorian England. I've read a few of these sorts of books and I've come to expect the unavoidable asides. After all, to take this book as an example, there is always going to be more to the story than just one man trying to find one lost city. The Lost City of Z is fattened by many an aside discussing the myriad of Victorian era explorers who threw themselves into harm's way for glory and adventure. It was almost like a game to them, a great race to see who could get there first, be it the depths of the jungle or the arctic pole. Author David Grann juggles these stories well, never dropping the main story, at least no more than necessary to incorporate the interesting details from these off-shoot tales that help the reader to better understand the mindset of the times or to underscore the perils of such treks into the unknown. In the process of putting this book together, tracking Fawcett became Grann's adventure. However, it turned out to be one shared by many. Fawcett went on numerous South American explorations with varying degrees of success and always emerging - though slightly worse for wear - in relatively good health compared to the many who perished along the way. However, after disappearing into the jungle one last time, with his son and a friend in-tow on this occasion, Fawcett disappeared forever. In the years that followed, finding Fawcett became a new kind of sport that swept the world. Many expeditions set out to find and bring the man back, dead or alive. As you read The Lost City of Z you begin to form the opinion that \"dead\" is the only possible outcome for anyone foolish enough to set foot in the jungle. Grann's descriptions of the jungle's deprivations felt to me like watching a David Attenborough nature program in Feel-o-vision...every sting, bite and virulent disease feels like its invading your body. I itched unconsciously at every mention of the ubiquitous insects. I swore my skin creeped and I could feel a fever coming on. So, if you've got Indiana Jones aspirations, this is the cure! ...more I picked up this book and was immediately lost between the covers and could not stop reading until I had finished the entire thing. That's how good this book is. The author sets forth the story of Colonel Percy Harrison Fawcett, a British explorer who in 1925 set out on an expedition to the Amazon to find what he had named the \"lost city of Z.\" He was convinced that an ancient and \"highly cultured\" people lived in the Amazon of Brazil, untouched by modern civilization, and that they lived in a gr I picked up this book and was immediately lost between the covers and could not stop reading until I had finished the entire thing. That's how good this book is. The author sets forth the story of Colonel Percy Harrison Fawcett, a British explorer who in 1925 set out on an expedition to the Amazon to find what he had named the \"lost city of Z.\" He was convinced that an ancient and \"highly cultured\" people lived in the Amazon of Brazil, untouched by modern civilization, and that they lived in a great city in a valley somewhere. He spent years doing research and gathering evidence for the existence of this place in order to get funding for expeditions into Brazil's interior. On the 1925 expedition, he took his son, Jack, and Jack's best friend, both eager to be part of a mission that would make history. But shortly after they had arrived into the Amazon area, all communications ceased, and while their movements were traced to a point, nothing concrete was ever heard regarding the three explorers. Their disappearance, and the publicity following the mission from which they never returned, prompted years worth of explorers trying to locate any trace of Fawcett, his son, and his son's friend, even as late as 1996. Too bad for those left behind, Fawcett, who was facing a lot of competition from others exploring the Amazon at the time, and worried that these other explorers might find the lost city of Z before he would, kept his route a very closely guarded secret, so it was pretty much impossible for anyone to go in to either locate bodies, effect a rescue or even trace with any accuracy the steps taken by Fawcett and his group. Although Fawcett's wife refused to believe that her husband and son were gone, they had pretty much just vanished off the face of the earth. Grann, who writes for the New Yorker, decided to try to find Fawcett's route and discover what had happened to him once and for all. This book not only traces Grann's efforts, but takes the reader back into the Victorian period, at the peak of the British Empire, to look at exactly who Percy Fawcett was. It also examines old and modern views of the indigenous peoples of the Amazon as well as offers a glimpse of the fate of the rain forest in modern times. Simply stunning and superb, I loved this book so much that I pre-ordered a copy for when it is released for the general reading public. The writing is excellent, the mystery surrounding Fawcett's disappearance is well portrayed, and the amount of effort that Grann went to in his research is very much apparent here. If you are looking for something entirely different that will mesmerize you instantly, you cannot miss this book. I had never heard about any of this up until now, & my curiosity has been sparked enough that I made notes and took down book titles to fill in some holes in my knowledge. I cannot recommend this book highly enough, and I would like to thank Doubleday for sending me this book and also those on Shelf Awareness for offering it as an ARC. It is an excellent piece of writing. ...more I wish this book would have been fiction so the reader would find out the ending. It seems to me that the story begins over and over but there is no closure. Incredible reviews, national best seller, interesting subject matter, well written, extensively researched and yet it did nothing for me. EPIC FAIL. Not sure why but I had a hard time getting through it without falling asleep every other page. Too many details, too many names, too many stories, too much repetition (I get it, the AMAZON is incredibly dangerous). The first half just dragged and dragged. I am glad that I made myself finish it otherwise I would have nothing positive to say. I will a Incredible reviews, national best seller, interesting subject matter, well written, extensively researched and yet it did nothing for me. EPIC FAIL. Not sure why but I had a hard time getting through it without falling asleep every other page. Too many details, too many names, too many stories, too much repetition (I get it, the AMAZON is incredibly dangerous). The first half just dragged and dragged. I am glad that I made myself finish it otherwise I would have nothing positive to say. I will admit after trudging through the back story, the intensity took off and my interest was held until the end. Unfortunately, more than half the book had been begrudgingly read by then. To illustrate: first half took two and a half weeks, last half took two days. Might not have been my thing but I can totally see why others would find it compelling and I did learn some things that I would otherwise not know. Apparently, there is a PBS special on Fawcett and this last expedition and I wouldn't mind watching it based on reading this book so evidently it wasn't a total loss. Hate to be sexist but it seems that men enjoyed this book more than women. As for me, I must be too practical and without an adventuresome bone in my body because I kept screaming \"Stop going in to that godforsaken jungle, people!\". ...more Rating: 4.5* of five This review has been revised and can now be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud . Real-life Indiana Jones doesn't come back from this one. 2017 Movie News : Go watch the trailer for this Amazon Studios film. I'll wait. Okay, now go read the Rotten Tomatoes aggregation. Won't take long. Now. A four-plus star book review from me and a host of other sources, agreement among critics from Den of Geek all the way to The Nation , and a cast of pretty, pretty actors...plus the fact that Rating: 4.5* of five This review has been revised and can now be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud . Real-life Indiana Jones doesn't come back from this one. 2017 Movie News : Go watch the trailer for this Amazon Studios film. I'll wait. Okay, now go read the Rotten Tomatoes aggregation. Won't take long. Now. A four-plus star book review from me and a host of other sources, agreement among critics from Den of Geek all the way to The Nation , and a cast of pretty, pretty actors...plus the fact that it's an Amazon Studios original appearing hot on the heels of their Golden Globe-winning Manchester by the Sea , makes this a super-promising April 2017 must-see. Amazon might very well be Satan, I can't say I agree but there's a chorus of unhappy people from contractors to suppliers to anti-globalization zealots who say it is, but Satan's offering us a lot of really great inducements to forget his agenda. Amazon's Prime streaming service alone is worth the $100 a year it costs. I love that so much of Amazon Studios' output is book-based. Calculated or not, it's a great thing to see the filmed entertainment industry gain a player that mines the immense vein of unadapted written work instead of churning out sequels and comic book heroes and the occasional bland screensaver-level movie. ...more You can see how someone, perhaps someone who goes by the alias of Kemper, would read this book and come to the conclusion that we need to destroy the rainforest immediately (see review and comments that follow for a glimpse at the behaviors of peoples who have never before come into contact with sarcasm). Seriously though, as noted in my review of Candice Millard's The River of Doubt: Theodore Roosevelt's Darkest Journey , and further evidenced in reading this tale, the jungle is a punishing, dan You can see how someone, perhaps someone who goes by the alias of Kemper, would read this book and come to the conclusion that we need to destroy the rainforest immediately (see review and comments that follow for a glimpse at the behaviors of peoples who have never before come into contact with sarcasm). Seriously though, as noted in my review of Candice Millard's The River of Doubt: Theodore Roosevelt's Darkest Journey , and further evidenced in reading this tale, the jungle is a punishing, dangerous place. As per usual, I'll refer to Sterling Archer for wisdom (see River of Doubt review), \" Everything out here either wants to eat me or give me malaria! \"* The hunt for the City of Z follows the footsteps of professional explorer and part-time crazy person, Percy Fawcett (below, in an image which also suggests he may have been a Sherlock Holmes cos-play enthusiast), who went down jungle-yonder in search of the real-world, lost civilization equivalent of El Dorado . Fawcett would probably be appalled by any comparisons with Roosevelt, but they did both take their sons into the unforgiving tropical environs and raise the hackles of the culturally-competent Marechal C\u00e2ndido Mariano da Silva Rondon (below yucking it up with an indigenous peoples). Big difference between Fawcett and TR? Fawcett never came back. Seen below with fellow explorer and guide Raleigh Rimell shortly before the expedition vanished, Fawcett's story, in the hands of David Grann was equal parts River of Doubt and Skyjack: The Hunt for D.B. Cooper as tales unravel of the many minds and/or lives lost in attempts to solve the mystery of a missing man. So what's Grann's take on all this jungle business? Well, pretty darn similar to Millard's who he, in fact, quotes in her description of the deathcage smackdown that is Amazonia: The rainforest was not a garden of easy abundance, but precisely the opposite. Its quiet, shaded halls of leafy opulence were not a sanctuary, but rather the greatest natural battlefield anywhere on the planet, hosting an unremitting and remorseless fight for survival that occupied every single one of its inhabitants, every minute of every day. Why such hysteria? Well you've got your classics- poisonous snakes, jaguars, and crocodiles ( \"aka the world's most deadliest predators\" - Archer's words, not Grann's). There's also a boatload of clever camouflage going down, para exaple (Portuguese) a caterpillar that makes itself look like a viper. If you manage to avoid getting a fish lodged in your orifices, you still have disease to contend with. In addition to quotidien little things like Malaria, there's espundia . \"an illness...caused by a parasite transmitted by sand flies, it destroys the flesh around the mouth, nose, and limbs, as if the person were slowly dissolving.\" Obviously there are pictures of what that little gem of an illness can do on the internet, but even I have my limits. Oh, and also the reaction to white men waltzing into a camp of natives isn't always predictable. A fascinating, fun read that probably would have been a bit more riveting if I hadn't read The River of Doubt quite so recently. Three and a half stars! Bonus Archer Jungle Zing: \"What? I don't think it's racist to assume that a previously uncontacted tribe of indigenous peoples might react unpredictably, perhaps even wildly, to a bunch of white guys who walk up and hand them a goddamn M16!\" *Yes, I know that's from Pipeline Fever, which takes place in the everglades, but it still applies. Who am I lead storyboard artist Chad Hurd? ...more What a great read. For really the first time I understood the fascination with the phrase 'armchair traveller.' In other circumstances, I always thought it was somewhat absurd to think that reading about a thing was as fun as doing it. In this case, it was a lot more fun to read about it than to do it. Pit vipers, swarms of biting insects, interminable wet, death by maggots...and in all of it, a frustrating mystery. At its heart, this is a story of the search for a magnificent civilization in th What a great read. For really the first time I understood the fascination with the phrase 'armchair traveller.' In other circumstances, I always thought it was somewhat absurd to think that reading about a thing was as fun as doing it. In this case, it was a lot more fun to read about it than to do it. Pit vipers, swarms of biting insects, interminable wet, death by maggots...and in all of it, a frustrating mystery. At its heart, this is a story of the search for a magnificent civilization in the heart of the Amazon, with vast earthworks paralleled only by great cities on the European continent. This is a book to make you think about what man is: his determination, his understanding, his folly, his ego, and how some of us have these things in greater measure than others. ...more The Lost City of Z by David Grann is exceptional book that I can altogether recommend to every variety of reader. This well-rendered and deeply researched biography of Percy Fawcett, centers on his all consuming obsession with the Lost City of Z (evidence of a great but forgotten jungle civilization), the international fever that follows his mysterious disappearance and some of the more exciting tidbits of Grann\u2019s journey to piece together Fawcett\u2019s tale. The book is unrelenting in its portraya The Lost City of Z by David Grann is exceptional book that I can altogether recommend to every variety of reader. This well-rendered and deeply researched biography of Percy Fawcett, centers on his all consuming obsession with the Lost City of Z (evidence of a great but forgotten jungle civilization), the international fever that follows his mysterious disappearance and some of the more exciting tidbits of Grann\u2019s journey to piece together Fawcett\u2019s tale. The book is unrelenting in its portrayal of everything Fawcett\u2014you will find yourself deep in the Amazonian Jungle from the first page and racing through the subsequent pages to a surprising conclusion. It boasts unbelievably TRUE stories of savages, cannibalism, kidnappings, murder, torture, mutiny, starvation, massive hoaxes, madness and exotic deaths. Not only is this a astonishing biography, it\u2019s also a fantastic adventure story. ...more The jungle is super scary ya'll. I havent had this many gross out moments since i read \"The Illustrated History of Cannibalism.\" So there is no way you will get to the end of this book without being wildly impressed at the abilities of PJ Fawcett and what he was able to do and when he did it. No radios, violent (rightfully so, btw) Indians, no modern medicine, and yet he helped mapped thousands of miles never mapped before in the middle of a jungle. Likewise you will be equally disgusted to learn The jungle is super scary ya'll. I havent had this many gross out moments since i read \"The Illustrated History of Cannibalism.\" So there is no way you will get to the end of this book without being wildly impressed at the abilities of PJ Fawcett and what he was able to do and when he did it. No radios, violent (rightfully so, btw) Indians, no modern medicine, and yet he helped mapped thousands of miles never mapped before in the middle of a jungle. Likewise you will be equally disgusted to learn about the Rubber Barons and the absolute historically-disregarded genocide of the Amazon's indigenous people. I am really appreciative to Grann for being honest about the limitations of Fawcett, his attempts to break out of his cultural racism, but also how he couldnt quite move away from that limitation, and also for writing about the horrors both of the rubberwars and then WWI. The part I actually liked the most acme right at the end when he discussed the modern archaeology of the Amazon and how its blowing established minds on the subject. For so long it was thought that it was a desert of civilization because the jungle is just too inhospitable, but now we are finding that there was a vast, powerful, and beautiful culture that lived there and spread outwards. Absolutely fascinating. I would have definitely liked if Grann had included more information about the struggles of archaeology in the region, but felt that he did what he could without getting too off topic since his book IS about Fawcett. Overall a good read that I would definitely recommend. ...more Excellent engaging read of a quest of a quest. Grann, a non-athletic journalist in New York, becomes obsessed with the obsession of an early 20th century British explorer, James Fawcett, with the uncharted areas of the Amazon near the boundaries of Bolivia and Brazil. His fame for several expeditions between 1905 and 1915 skyrocketed to nearly Airhart proportions when he disappeared with his son and his friend on a 1925 journey into the vast Mato Grosso wilderness of Brazil in search the ruins o Excellent engaging read of a quest of a quest. Grann, a non-athletic journalist in New York, becomes obsessed with the obsession of an early 20th century British explorer, James Fawcett, with the uncharted areas of the Amazon near the boundaries of Bolivia and Brazil. His fame for several expeditions between 1905 and 1915 skyrocketed to nearly Airhart proportions when he disappeared with his son and his friend on a 1925 journey into the vast Mato Grosso wilderness of Brazil in search the ruins of an ancient civilization Fawcett codes as the \"Lost City of Z.\" Rumors of a lost civilization and clues to its general location was what was driving him, not unlike the quest since the time of the Conquistadors for a gold rich El Dorado. Grann deftly charts the origins of Fawcett's character from his Victorian family upbringing, the worship of antecedent explorers like Burton, and an early experience looking for ruins in Ceylon while in the colonial army. His charisma and competence were sufficient to garner the backing of the Royal Geological Society and later the U.S. counterpart. On the ugly side, he had little empathy for anyone in his party who could not keep up with his pace, and he neglected his family. Paradoxically, Fawcett respected the many Indian tribes enough to avoid violent encounters at all costs, yet believed along with nearly all Europeans in their genetic inferiority. Fawcett came to believe that Amazon dwellers achieved a high civilization before the arrival and destructive impact of colonialism and European disease (e.g. Machu Picchu found in 1911). However, he bought into the idea that such civilization had been spread by ancient Phoenicians. Grann's research among Fawcett's letters and descendents led him to pursue his own foray to Brazil to uncover the mysteries of his disappearance and the potential real foundation for the lost city. In this, he was following along in the footsteps of numerous expeditions from the first in 1928 to the last one in 1996, all of which ended in failure and led to perhaps 100 deaths. It is hard to consider that there can be a spoiler to a journalistic memoir, but there is a surprise bit of archaeology at the end. Grann had to know about it, but he kept it tucked away to enhance the drama. I didn't appreciate this bit of showmanship in what otherwise passed as an objective account. ...more Don't you think the magic is gone from this world? There's nothing left to explore or discover. And if I were to pack a backpack and trek off into the Amazon rain forest in search of a city made of gold and possibly the fountain of youth, you'd institutionalize me. But not Percy (F'ing) Fawcett, the guy whose mustache and zeal for adventure more than makes up for his sissy first name. He's the real-life Indiana Jones. A treasure hunter, not an archaeologist (and by the way, it's clear to me now t Don't you think the magic is gone from this world? There's nothing left to explore or discover. And if I were to pack a backpack and trek off into the Amazon rain forest in search of a city made of gold and possibly the fountain of youth, you'd institutionalize me. But not Percy (F'ing) Fawcett, the guy whose mustache and zeal for adventure more than makes up for his sissy first name. He's the real-life Indiana Jones. A treasure hunter, not an archaeologist (and by the way, it's clear to me now that Indiana Jones was truly the worst\u2014absolute worst \u2014archaeologist ever). The type of man who waltzes into the jungle and doesn't care if he ever comes out. A hairy-chested, fire-spitting, lion-wrestling, not-scared-of-big-spiders man ! But now I'm realizing something... I'm expecting a child now. And the manly men I admire, the adventure-loving ones, they all seem to die. They wander off into the wilderness and die alone. This guy, Percy Fawcett; it's still a mystery what happened to him. Joshua Slocum, author of the wonderful Sailing Alone Around the World , disappeared while he was sailing alone around the Atlantic Ocean. Christopher McCandless, subject of Into the Wild , died alone in a school bus in frozen Alaska. Maybe... just maybe... I'm just a man who reads about manly men. Maybe I'm not, after all, the type of manly man with a waxed mustache and stylish but functional dungarees and an unquenchable thirst for danger and adventure, alone and with diminishing hope of survival. I think I'm the type of manly man who will enjoy the small adventures of hikes in the park (jungle) with my child; bike rides around the block (in hot pursuit of stolen jewels); climbing our backyard elm tree (Mount Everest). Maybe the world still has some magic left in it, after all. ...more This is kind of an odd accomplishment: an adventure book that will make you really really glad your not an adventurer. Grann's descriptions of Fawcett et al trampling through the amazonian rainforest with their crass, (often racist) imperialist delusions of grandeur and discovery are often gut-wrenching. Skin peels off in sheets, everyone gets malaria, parasites, maggot infections (shudder), gangrene, etc. Trekking through unspoiled tropical jungles is utterly horrifying, you basically just turn This is kind of an odd accomplishment: an adventure book that will make you really really glad your not an adventurer. Grann's descriptions of Fawcett et al trampling through the amazonian rainforest with their crass, (often racist) imperialist delusions of grandeur and discovery are often gut-wrenching. Skin peels off in sheets, everyone gets malaria, parasites, maggot infections (shudder), gangrene, etc. Trekking through unspoiled tropical jungles is utterly horrifying, you basically just turn yourself into an oozing, walking meal and wait for the rainforest to literally devour you. Grann remains fairly non-judgmental through out. After all, it's the green hell of the jungle itself which finally breaks down and destroys hubris and good intentions alike. Seriously, some of this stuff would make Werner Herzog blush. ...more The most dangerous moment in my highly amateurish hiking career was when I fell a little behind my friends and then fell off a mountain path. Fortunately, I was holding a rope and did not roll down the cliff into the rocks below. Unfortunately, my friends couldn't hear me screaming for help. I held on tight, calmed myself, and climbed back on to the path. It scared the living daylights out of my mom when I told her, even though I was clearly still alive as I told the story. So you can bet that my The most dangerous moment in my highly amateurish hiking career was when I fell a little behind my friends and then fell off a mountain path. Fortunately, I was holding a rope and did not roll down the cliff into the rocks below. Unfortunately, my friends couldn't hear me screaming for help. I held on tight, calmed myself, and climbed back on to the path. It scared the living daylights out of my mom when I told her, even though I was clearly still alive as I told the story. So you can bet that my mom would not have wanted to know Percy Harrison Fawcett, an English explorer tasked with exploring the Amazon rain forest at the start of the 20th century. Not easy. Any creature not poisonous is probably trying to reproduce in your skin. Fawcett referred to the jungle as hell, but he couldn't stop himself from exploring it repeatedly, relentlessly, and obsessively. By the 1920s, Fawcett became convinced that a lost city had been buried within the forest. He set out in 1921 and again in 1925 to find it, only to disappear in the attempt. What a story! Which is exactly why David Grann sets out to tell Fawcett's tale of obsession in The Lost City of Z . To his credit, Grann has a great eye for details, describing the horrors of the jungle, the arrogance with which the Royal Geographical Society viewed the Amazonian Indians, and the preparations needed to plan an expedition. I also enjoyed his discussion of spiritualism in an age that ostensibly celebrated reason and science. Grann's favorite example, and mine, was Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who was enthusiastic about exploration, invented Sherlock Holmes, and believed wholehearted in psychic mediums. More than anything else, Grann has a great sense of pacing and of narrative. In fact, The Lost City of Z may be the most exciting work of non-fiction that I have ever read. However, perhaps Grann's dedication to the story gets the best of him. For one thing, Grann enters the jungle, which he passes off as obsession (nicely done), but by the end of the book I found myself wondering if it wasn't just a marketing gimmick. This is perhaps unfair, so please let me explain. Ostensibly, Grann enters the jungle to trace Fawcett's route and to find his remains, if possible (about 80 years later). He has also made contact with Michael Heckenberger, an anthropologist studying the Amazon. Grann implies that their meeting is a surprise. And he further confesses his shock that *surprise* there is evidence of a lost civilization after all. Quite frankly, it seems unlikely to me that Grann wouldn't have known of Heckenberger's findings before heading into the jungle. Surely amongst all this obsession he looked up Heckenberger's work before heading to Brazil. But it does make for a good story to suddenly discover, just as Grann is about to return to New York, that there is evidence of an ancient civilization after all. So although I am suspicious of Grann the reporter, I certainly recommend Grann the story teller. ...more Percy Harrison Fawcett (1867 \u2013 1925?) Books To Read Before The Movie Comes Out (Rest of 2016/Early 2017) O subt\u00edtulo \u201dUma Hist\u00f3ria de Obsess\u00e3o Mortal Passada na Amaz\u00f3nia\u201d conjuga e sintetiza de uma forma primorosa a tem\u00e1tica do livro de David Grann (n. 1967) \u201dA Cidade Perdida de Z\u201d . \u201dA Cidade Perdida de Z\u201d \u00e9 um livro de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o \u2013 l\u00ea-se como um romance de aventuras \u2013 que se centra na vida do explorador ingl\u00eas Percy Harrison Fawcett (1867 \u2013 1925?) e na regi\u00e3o da Amaz\u00f3nia. A Amaz\u00f3nia permanece com Percy Harrison Fawcett (1867 \u2013 1925?) Books To Read Before The Movie Comes Out (Rest of 2016/Early 2017) O subt\u00edtulo \u201dUma Hist\u00f3ria de Obsess\u00e3o Mortal Passada na Amaz\u00f3nia\u201d conjuga e sintetiza de uma forma primorosa a tem\u00e1tica do livro de David Grann (n. 1967) \u201dA Cidade Perdida de Z\u201d . \u201dA Cidade Perdida de Z\u201d \u00e9 um livro de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o \u2013 l\u00ea-se como um romance de aventuras \u2013 que se centra na vida do explorador ingl\u00eas Percy Harrison Fawcett (1867 \u2013 1925?) e na regi\u00e3o da Amaz\u00f3nia. A Amaz\u00f3nia permanece como um dos locais mais fascinantes e emblem\u00e1ticos do planeta Terra, abrangendo mais de cinco milh\u00f5es e quinhentos mil quil\u00f3metros quadrados com cerca de 60% da \u00e1rea no Brasil, 13% no Per\u00fa e com partes menores na Col\u00f4mbia, Venezuela, Equador, Bol\u00edvia, Guiana, Suriname e Guiana Francesa (Fran\u00e7a). Entre 1906 e 1924 o Coronel ingl\u00eas Percy Harrison Fawcett realiza sete expedi\u00e7\u00f5es, trabalhos organizados pela Royal Geographical Society de Londres. Percy Fawcett em 1925 decide aventurar-se - juntamente, com o seu filho mais velho Jack Fawcett e com Raleigh Rimmell , amigo de Jack \u2013 numa expedi\u00e7\u00e3o que mais do que investigar as quest\u00f5es relacionadas com a Geografia e a Biodiversidade, pretendem encontrar os vest\u00edgios de uma antiga civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o, tentando localizar os resqu\u00edcios arqueol\u00f3gicos que permitissem sustentar cientificamente o que intitula de A Cidade Perdida de Z , uma cidade monumental, algures na zona de Mato Grosso (Brasil). Percy Fawcett \u00e9 um homem com uma vontade ind\u00f3mita, que tinha desenvolvido \u201ca convic\u00e7\u00e3o de que nenhum perigo podia atingi-lo\u201d, um grande explorador, com uma f\u00faria demon\u00edaca, pertin\u00e1cia e um sentido quase divino de imortalidade que o transformavam num her\u00f3i m\u00edtico. David Grann desenvolve \u201dA Cidade Perdida de Z\u201d em duas partes: a do explorador ingl\u00eas Percy Fawcett e a sua, a do rep\u00f3rter com recurso a uma excelente investiga\u00e7\u00e3o, extremamente minuciosa e com um detalhe irrepreens\u00edvel, utilizando uma vasta bibliografia e documentos hist\u00f3ricos em conjuga\u00e7\u00e3o com a incont\u00e1veis entrevistas de familiares e outros indiv\u00edduos directamente relacionados. A \u201chist\u00f3ria\u201d de Percy Fawcett torna-se numa obsess\u00e3o para David Grann - tal como j\u00e1 tinha acontecido para outras centenas de aventureiros e cientistas \u2013 que decide procurar na Amaz\u00f3nia \u2013 noutro tempo e com outra tecnologia \u2013 as evid\u00eancias do grupo de Percy Fawcett na tentativa de encontrar as respostas ao mist\u00e9rio do seu desaparecimento. \u201dA Cidade Perdida de Z\u201d \u00e9 um livro fascinante \u2013 a ler antes de estrear o filme realizado por James Gray com Charlie Hunnam , Robert Pattinson , Tom Holland e Sienna Miller . Charlie Hunnam \u00e9 Percy Fawcett ...more Two stars is probably generous. The rating stems from having known but little about the Amazon rainforest from an experiential point of view. Had I even taken more than a few trips to the National Zoo's only-slightly-muggy version largely without free-roaming pestilence, my rating would probably have been lower. So expectations and foreknowledge are everything here. The more you already know about what a godforsaken wasteland the Amazon is (from a nontropical, industrialized, rocking-chair, arti Two stars is probably generous. The rating stems from having known but little about the Amazon rainforest from an experiential point of view. Had I even taken more than a few trips to the National Zoo's only-slightly-muggy version largely without free-roaming pestilence, my rating would probably have been lower. So expectations and foreknowledge are everything here. The more you already know about what a godforsaken wasteland the Amazon is (from a nontropical, industrialized, rocking-chair, artisanal beer-swilling perspective), the weaker I imagine this book will appear. On that note, perhaps you're interested in reading about the exciting new disoveries that analysis of satellite imagery and carbon dating combined with sympathetic boots on the ground are lending to the field of pre-Columbian anthropology in the Americas. This is not that book. That book, referenced here only at page 284, is apparently Charles Mann's 1491 and one which I look forward to reading at some point. Perhaps your interests are less expansive, limited to Michael Heckenberger\u2019s work with and in proximity to the Kuikuro and Kalapalo tribes in the Amazonian Xingu region, presumably near to Colonel Percy Harrison Fawcett\u2019s last-known whereabouts in his quest for the burg whose romantic name The Lost City of Z serves as the title of this book. You know, a book documenting a theory that represents a paradigm shift away from the 20th century view of Amazonia as a \u201ccounterfeit paradise\u201d incapable of sustaining population density sufficient to yield a complex culture. Well, this is not that book, either. That book, referenced here a mere four pages from the end of his narrative at page 273, is Heckenberger\u2019s own work called The Ecology of Power and has been described by archaeologists and geographers (as related by David Grann) as \u201cextraordinary,\u201d \u201cmonumental,\u201d \u201ctransformative,\u201d and \u201cearth-shattering,\u201d which sounds worthy of at least a browse. Perhaps..., perhaps really you\u2019re a fan of quirky travel, adventure, and outdoorsy exotica of the type to be found in Douglas Adams\u2019 amusing Last Chance to See or Jon Krakauer\u2019s harrowing exposes of human folly and hubris Into the Wild or Into Thin Air and hoping to find here a biography of intrepid Edwardian explorer Fawcett that will match Adam Hochschild\u2019s telling of Lord Stanley\u2019s disturbing exploits in the Belgian Congo in King Leopold\u2019s Ghost . Alas, none of those terrific books are this one, either. In fact, it\u2019s hard to say what this book is , as David Grann doesn\u2019t seem himself to know. Here\u2019s how he opens the book: Preface \u2013 the author is lost and alone deep in the Amazon in pursuit of his story (this is actually not the case, but does self-destructively set the stage for the frustrating futility which the reader will perceive throughout the book). Chapter 1 - introducing Fawsett onboard ship destined for Brazil and what will become his last documented trip into the rainforest in 1925. Chapter 2 \u2013 introducing James and James, Jr. Lynch, wealthy bankers who managed to survive their own \u201cIn Search of\u2026\u201d quest into the Green Hell in 1995 only by ransoming themselves to a hostile kidnapping tribe (give \u2018em a hand, folks, as they will be returning only once later in this story in a cameo role). Now here comes Chapter 3, melodramatically surtitled, \u201cThe Search Begins\u201d (for what? the dimly-charted border between Bolivia and Brazil? Ninety-year old undocumented human remains which in the best of conditions would surely have vanished within the first decade of disappearance? the fact that water is wet, heat hot, and indigenous cultures mercilessly exploited and victimized? quel surprise!) and we\u2019re back with the author in first person again as he documents what will ultimately prove to be only his own pointless, journalistic narcissism. Thus bumblingly shifting through multiple points of view, Grann exhausts readers\u2019 patience and sympathy for the characters intended to be their surrogates. As no one even arrives at the jungle until nearly 80 pages in, this book even fails as a member of the nature-as-monster genre. You do pick up some interesting facts about life in the Amazon (via the author\u2019s ultimate encounters with Heckenberger) and a bit of Edwardian-era explorer gossip (via mildew-spotted correspondence with the Royal Geographic Society circa 1911), but nothing worth a book-length investment. I read this in anticipation of a book talk and am now dying to find out why this particular work was chosen. I\u2019m hoping Heckenberger will turn out to be the speaker. If it\u2019s Grann, I won\u2019t waste my lunch hour. ...more That obnoxious Amazon. It likes to monopolize and dominate the jungle. Although one might be led to believe that there would be an abundance of everything where such a mighty force exists, the truth is exactly the opposite. As David Grann puts it himself: It\u2019s the great \u201ccounterfeit paradise\u201d. I couldn\u2019t agree more. Amazon will starve you. Amazon will desiccate you. And finally, Amazon will obliterate you. Because, simply put, Amazon doesn\u2019t care for you. It\u2019s a green desert. Unfit for human civ That obnoxious Amazon. It likes to monopolize and dominate the jungle. Although one might be led to believe that there would be an abundance of everything where such a mighty force exists, the truth is exactly the opposite. As David Grann puts it himself: It\u2019s the great \u201ccounterfeit paradise\u201d. I couldn\u2019t agree more. Amazon will starve you. Amazon will desiccate you. And finally, Amazon will obliterate you. Because, simply put, Amazon doesn\u2019t care for you. It\u2019s a green desert. Unfit for human civilization. Take the example of Colonel Percy Harrison Fawcett. He wanted to make \u201cthe great discovery of the century\u201d by finding the cryptic lost City of Z but instead, the uncaring Amazon rainforest consumed him, his son (Jack) and his son\u2019s friend (Raleigh Rimell). So, \u201cthe great discovery of the century\u201d became infamous as what has often been described as \u201cthe greatest exploration mystery of the twentieth century\u201d\u2014 that is, the mystery of the fate of Percy Fawcett and the whereabouts of the lost City of Z. Many have tried to solve the mystery over the years, but failed. No one could find exactly what happened to Fawcett and certainly no one could find any clues that Z ever existed. But why should it exist? It was really pointless of us to assume right from the start that a civilization could prosper under something as brutal and vainglorious as Amazon. Sure, Grann did made some flimsy attempts by the end of the book by hinting that a civilized colony might have existed in the Amazon in the past, but that didn\u2019t half-convince me. So, one thing I would definitely take away from this book is the fact that, Amazon is the bane of civilization. ...more Brilliant. This is a new classic of the narrative nonfiction genre. The prose is vivid and intoxicating, and he weaves together 2+ threads, seamlessly--with the Fawcett thread dominant, as it should be, yet given fresh life with the mingling of the contemporary thread. I was drawn in from the start, but oddly enough, I REALLY got fascinated when he got to the developing field of cultural anthropology, and the fights over whether the people in the Amazon were \"noble savages\" or just \"savages,\" or s Brilliant. This is a new classic of the narrative nonfiction genre. The prose is vivid and intoxicating, and he weaves together 2+ threads, seamlessly--with the Fawcett thread dominant, as it should be, yet given fresh life with the mingling of the contemporary thread. I was drawn in from the start, but oddly enough, I REALLY got fascinated when he got to the developing field of cultural anthropology, and the fights over whether the people in the Amazon were \"noble savages\" or just \"savages,\" or stupid subhumans, or . . . and what the apparent tiny population really meant. Throughout the book, there was an adventure story going on, but a much wider, deeper consideration of how the discoveries there fundamentally altered our conceptions of how and why we all are the way we are. And it crept into those ideas artfully, interestingly and never pedantically. It never bogged down into a university course: felt more like an exciting speaker spurring our curiosity and helping us run with it. So well done. I'll use this as one of my models for all my future books. (And as a writer, I can't resist saying: Great verbs! I mean, stupendously great, every page, every paragraph. Never too much, consistently just right.) ...more I read this book to build anticipation for an upcoming trip to Colombia. Little did I know, it is NOT that kind of book. Grann's descriptions of all the horrible ways the Amazon can invade the body make me never want to stand in a forest again. However, the book did end on a good note: in awe of the great unknown civilizations that not only survive but thrived in the Amazon. I also found Grann's portrayal of the individuals that journeyed into the Amazon (and the people they left behind) interes I read this book to build anticipation for an upcoming trip to Colombia. Little did I know, it is NOT that kind of book. Grann's descriptions of all the horrible ways the Amazon can invade the body make me never want to stand in a forest again. However, the book did end on a good note: in awe of the great unknown civilizations that not only survive but thrived in the Amazon. I also found Grann's portrayal of the individuals that journeyed into the Amazon (and the people they left behind) interesting enough in themselves. What kind of people are compelled again and again to enter into a lonely hell? ...more I felt really sorry for these guys because they didn't have DEET! BUGSBUGSBUGSBUGSBUGS!!!! :>0 Shortly after I finished this book, the BBC World Service reported that a Brazilian man who advocated for small farmers, natives, and the rain forest was murdered. He was shot five times in the head while biking with his wife. The same report made reference to the 2005 killing of an American nun, a murder that Grann mentions in his book. What the news report drove home was the idea that the Amazon is still a dangerous place, just not exactly in the same way it was during Fawcett\u2019s time. Instead Shortly after I finished this book, the BBC World Service reported that a Brazilian man who advocated for small farmers, natives, and the rain forest was murdered. He was shot five times in the head while biking with his wife. The same report made reference to the 2005 killing of an American nun, a murder that Grann mentions in his book. What the news report drove home was the idea that the Amazon is still a dangerous place, just not exactly in the same way it was during Fawcett\u2019s time. Instead of worrying about how a misunderstanding with a native tribe could end in the death of tribal members or of the group of explorers, the battle is now between business and various types of conversation. In many ways, a more violent battle, not just because everyone has guns. This idea is not wholly examined in The Lost City of Z , though David Grann does touch on it in the closing chapters of his book, and the idea of the destruction of the natural world does run though a good portion of the book. Much of the book is about Fawcett and his various trips to the Amazon; culminating in what was undoubtedly a fatal trip to find a \u201clost\u201d city that he had named Z. In fact, if you are going to learn anything from this book (and you are), the most important is the simple fact that if the natives tell you not to do something or go somewhere, LISTEN TO THEM! THEY KNOW FROM WHENCE THEY SPEAK! (I\u2019m using the slightly political incorrect term of natives because I am a good American who has been taught that Indian refers to a person from India. South American Native Americans is way too wordy, there too many tribes to list all the tribe names, and the term Native American or First People [nations:] would make me sound like the news anchor on CNN who referred to the African immigrants protesting/rioting in Paris a few years back as African-Americans.) Fawcett was a man who spent more time in the Amazon then with his family. As an aside, Grann does a wonderful job of showing the strength of character of both Nina Fawcett and Grann\u2019s own wife, making both women sound just as, if not more, heroic than their husbands. In fact, Mr. Grann, your wife sounds far more intelligent than you. (Sorry, don\u2019t mean to offend, but she knew you needed more than sneakers before heading into the Amazon). The men who explored the Amazon seemed to have married very understand and supportive women (and, if possible, very rich women). While her husband was dealing with nasty bugs and a fish that could swim up his wee-wee, Nina Fawcett was giving birth to their second child, raising their first (eventually raising all three children), keeping house, and protecting her husband\u2019s reputation, all of this on a rather limited budget. To be far, Fawcett seemed to know that he was unworthy of her. This is what makes the book charming. It\u2019s warts and all, and the people who have warts, know they have them. It\u2019s very human. Fawcett became convinced that there was lost civilization in the Amazon, basically a version of the city of gold myth. It was during an attempt to find this city that Fawcett, his eldest son Jack, and his son\u2019s closest friend disappeared in the Amazon. The disappearance set off searches, rescue missions, and theories (such as this book), possibly resulting in another 100 deaths/disappearances. Grann seems aware of his obsession and the risks it brings to both himself and his family. In fact, it seems like this is going to be his only big adventure. It seems he learned a lesson that Fawcett didn\u2019t or couldn\u2019t learn. In some ways, the most interesting part of the book is the closing chapter which describes what a lost civilization in the Amazon is truly. Think the Incas, the Mayans, the Aztecs but in a different country. If the rain forest is turned wholly over to big business, if its defenders and supporters are murdered then not only do the flora and fauna of the Amazon disappear, not only do tribal cultures (if not whole tribes) die, but the Lost City of Z will still forever be lost. ...more Do you remember the first time you saw \"Raiders of the Lost Ark?\" Because I do. I remember it, because at first I didn't want to see it. The name sounded silly, and I didn't know what it was about. To my little girl mentality, it sounded like a \"boy movie.\" But my little friends dragged me in by majority vote, and I emerged from the theater two hours later exhilarated, endlessly curious about early human cultures and determined to live a more exciting life. Years later, I stood in the middle of Do you remember the first time you saw \"Raiders of the Lost Ark?\" Because I do. I remember it, because at first I didn't want to see it. The name sounded silly, and I didn't know what it was about. To my little girl mentality, it sounded like a \"boy movie.\" But my little friends dragged me in by majority vote, and I emerged from the theater two hours later exhilarated, endlessly curious about early human cultures and determined to live a more exciting life. Years later, I stood in the middle of Albuquerque receiving my degree in Anthropology, still consumed with a passion for learning about human cultures and lost worlds. Percy Fawcett, the adventurer, explorer, and land surveyor at the heart of the tale of \"The Lost City of Z\" would have most likely seen a lot of himself in Indiana Jones. If ever there were a real-life version of the intrepid anthropologist, Fawcett would definitely be a frontrunner. And fate seemed to lead him there. In his early military years in Ceylon, Fawcett heard the legend of a lost city buried beneath an earthen mound near his base. He took it upon himself to try to locate this lost world, and appears to have had some success, although he did not have the wherewithal at the time to excavate it. Still, the thrill of the find and the desire to pursue other \"lost worlds\" grabbed hold of him then, and planted the seed of obsession that would follow him throughout the rest of his life. Working for the Royal Geographical Society, Fawcett was sent to the largely uncharted and dangerous forests of the Amazon. For my money, there is no crueler environment in the world. I remember contemplating graduate field work at one time, and recalling the stories of an anthropologist who had visited our class one day to tell about his work with the Yanamami. Fascinating, yes. But tempting to my sensibilities? Not in the least. I knew the last place on earth I ever wanted to live - even for a short time - was within the bug-infested, snake-laden, vampire-bat heavy, jaguar lair that is the Amazon. Mosquitoes love me here in New England. Imagine the feast I would provide them in the rain forest. I would be nearly bloodless in a week. But Fawcett - he was made for the place. Surveying the formerly unexplored (by white men) border between Brazil and Bolivia, Fawcett accomplished his mission nearly a year ahead of schedule. This despite losing half his team to disease, the arrows of hostile tribes, parasitic worms, viral infections, and starvation. By all accounts, Fawcett was impervious to disease, boasting a hardy constitution unphased by the rigors of a jungle so dense that a day's worth of hacking through it with machetes sometimes only gained the team a half a mile of advancement. His amazing physical stamina and seeming disdain for the suffering of others, bred one of two things in the men who served him: intense loyalty or mutinous desire. The tales of both of these conditions in his many journeys back into the jungle after his acclaimed first mission, are the stuff of legend. But, somewhere along the way, Fawcett began to hear about a Lost City, much like the famed El Dorado, a city of vast palaces and towering pillars, filled with riches and covered in gold dust. Having encountered a smaller version of this phenomenon in Ceylon, Fawcett became intrigued. As time went on, intrigue turned to obsession, as more and more of the oral histories he encountered in the tribes he befriended, as well as the geographical and archaeological record that had newly been discovered began to substantiate the claims. When Hiram Bingham discovered Machu Picchu during the same time period as Fawcett's work, it only fueled his desire to find his own \"lost world.\" \"The Lost City of Z\" is brilliantly told and exhaustively researched by David Grann. Needless to say, Fawcett's last mission involved a last ditch effort to find the city, taking only his grown son, his son's best friend and a couple of temporary native guides. They went into the forest in 1925 and were never heard from again. Since that time, literally hundreds of amateur explorers have trekked into the same hostile jungles to try to find the missing Colonel and his companions. As recently as 1995, a Bolivian businessman and his grown son (along with an expert team and the best technological aids) went into the forest to try to finally find out what happened to the Fawcett team all those years ago, only to find themselves taken captive by a hostile Amazonian tribe. (The tribe debated whether or not to kill them for three days until finally agreeing to release them for their thirty thousand dollars worth of equipment.) And this was 1995 - not 1925. Grann himself, naturally, feels compelled to see for himself the land where Percy Fawcett was lost forever. His journey is far more eventful than I would have imagined, and his final meeting with the anhropologist Michael Hecklenberger, who has lived in the Amazon for over a dozen years now was insightful and educational. For anyone who has ever felt the pull of exploration, imagined the thrill of a lost world, or even just really enjoyed the exploits of Indiana Jones, pick up this fascinating book. I doubt it will make you want to trek through the Amazon, (in fact, it may dissuade you from ever going to a jungle anywhere), but it just might make you explore a new culture, visit a museum, or even just take the long way home. And if it does, Percy Fawcett may have succeeded in some small way. ...more This author was on the Colbert show a few nights ago. Even though Steven wouldn\u2019t give the poor guy a chance to talk, the story seemed right up my alley so I picked up the book the next day. Isn\u2019t that why authors appear on talk shows, so that numb-nuts like me will rush to Borders? Percy Harrison Fawcett was the real-life explorer whose adventures Arthur Conan Doyle drew upon for his 1912 novel \u2018The Lost Word.\u2019 While Fawcett did not find a South American plateau populated with dinosaurs, he did This author was on the Colbert show a few nights ago. Even though Steven wouldn\u2019t give the poor guy a chance to talk, the story seemed right up my alley so I picked up the book the next day. Isn\u2019t that why authors appear on talk shows, so that numb-nuts like me will rush to Borders? Percy Harrison Fawcett was the real-life explorer whose adventures Arthur Conan Doyle drew upon for his 1912 novel \u2018The Lost Word.\u2019 While Fawcett did not find a South American plateau populated with dinosaurs, he did lead numerous expeditions looking for lost civilizations. On his last and most ambitious\u2014seeking the City of Z\u2014he vanished. Over the past seventy-five years there have been hundreds of other expeditions into the Amazon, by a myriad of adventurers, looking for Percy Fawcett. All failed. Hundreds died. Many were never heard from again. Fawcett marked the end of an age. He was the last of the individualist explores. The day of the airplane, the radio, the organized and heavily financed modern expedition had not arrived. With him, it was the heroic story of a man against a vast uncharted wilderness nearly the size of the continental United States inhabited by deadly warriors. Armed with newly discovered information found in a trunk by one of Fawcett\u2019s grandchildren the author, after completing exhaustive research, decides to enter the Amazon and follow the path of Fawcett\u2019s last journey. This is a little eye-brow lifting because the author is a middle aged slightly chunky New Yorker who is the complete opposite of the rigorously trained, physically fit, handsome Fawcett. Thus the consequence of obsession, I guess. Throughout the nineteenth century there was a tremendous speculation concerning the \u2018lesser\u2019 civilizations and their inability to reach a level of sophistication beyond living in huts and foraging for food. Darwin did nothing to dispel this attitude\u2014in fact, augmented it. Fawcett was unique in his vision and belief that remote jungle societies could indeed build out of stone, decipher the movements of the stars and create a written language. Without any concrete knowledge of its existence, he was determined to find proof, in the form of a magnificent stone city\u2014he called Z\u2014in the blank parts of the Amazon maps. For Fawcett\u2019s final, and according to him \u2018definitive\u2019 1925 excursion, instead of a group of hunter/explorers, he took only his twenty-one year old son Jack, and Jack\u2019s companion Raleigh Rimell (who really wanted to go to Hollywood and become a silent movie star). For a while the trio sent native runners out of the jungle with progress reports. Their messages would be telegraphed to cities in the United States and eventually newspapers around the world published accounts of their progress. The world literally followed their escapades like a serial novel. Then everything stopped. And the world went nuts. Every major geographical society mounted rescue parties. Finding Fawcett Fever lasted for years. Even in the 1950\u2019s there were rumors Fawcett was still alive and lording like a king over a remote tribe. In the 1960\u2019s, rescue parties were mounted and sent into the wilds. More people died searching for Fawcett than looking for the headwaters of the Nile or panning gold in the Pacific northwest. It\u2019s a pretty amazing story and a whopping good read. The author knows how to pace his story and exactly the right time to intersperse details of his own trek though the tropical forest. I have always wondered about these curious lines from \u2018Othello\u201d: And of the Cannibals that each other eat, The Anthropophagi, and men whose heads Do grow beneath their shoulders. It comes from an idea Shakespeare borrowed from Sir Walter Raleigh writing about Francisco de Orellana, whose expedition into the Amazon vanished in 1542. One of the many Christian xenophobes who contributed to slavery in the Western hemisphere. (Raleigh, not Shakespeare.) The author doesn\u2019t have an ending and the story looses its momentum towards the end, but it is an intriguing story, well researched and a very interesting read. Completely enjoyable. ...more An explorer enters the Amazon jungle in search of a lost civilization: It's not an Indiana Jones movie but instead a true story about explorer Percy Fawcett who disappeared in 1925 while hunting for the \"forbidden city\" which he nicknamed \"Z.\" Tragically, Fawcett never found Z...or did he? Legend has it Fawcett was killed or captured by hostile tribes, starved to death, or perhaps as some fringe groups believe he transcended mortality when he found and entered the lost city of Z. Journalist Davi An explorer enters the Amazon jungle in search of a lost civilization: It's not an Indiana Jones movie but instead a true story about explorer Percy Fawcett who disappeared in 1925 while hunting for the \"forbidden city\" which he nicknamed \"Z.\" Tragically, Fawcett never found Z...or did he? Legend has it Fawcett was killed or captured by hostile tribes, starved to death, or perhaps as some fringe groups believe he transcended mortality when he found and entered the lost city of Z. Journalist David Grann finds new information regarding Fawcett's secret route and eventually follows Fawcett into an area of the world that still remains largely unknown - and hostile - to outsiders. The Lost City of Z is often reminiscent of Susan Orlean's The Orchid Thief: A True Story of Beauty and Obsession - largely fascinating with the occasional dull patch or lack of focus. ...more I love travel and adventure and ancient civiliations so a real-life journey is a must-read for me. It is amazing how many people had invested time, money and, in some cases, their lives to search for a group that people said shouldn't have gone in the first place. Maybe if those people had helped fund the expedition they wouldn't have gone missing. Or as some conspiracies say maybe he wanted to go missing. But there's a part of me that would have also wanted to rush out looking for him. And that' I love travel and adventure and ancient civiliations so a real-life journey is a must-read for me. It is amazing how many people had invested time, money and, in some cases, their lives to search for a group that people said shouldn't have gone in the first place. Maybe if those people had helped fund the expedition they wouldn't have gone missing. Or as some conspiracies say maybe he wanted to go missing. But there's a part of me that would have also wanted to rush out looking for him. And that's the part that believes in the lost city of Z. Not the city of gold or the gilded man but the ancient civilization of the Amazon. The people and cities the original European explorers reported that were never seen again. And which science and archaeologists are finally confirming as being real. I would love to join the digs in South America, maybe one day I will. So why only 4 stars? The book is too short. I know it was originally written as an article and then extended but it was over too quick. I was really getting into the story and the discoveries when it finished. Now I'll have to find more books on the subject. ...more The book is about the explorer Fawcett's quest for the lost city of El Dorado, called \"Z\" in the Amazon. Because no one really and truly knows what DID happen to Fawcett and his son in their last Amazon region in 1925, a large amount of the book is filler. Fawcett's British colonial background, his early years, other explorations, his family, his involvement in the Royal Geographical Society and the colonial and imperialist mix that was current in the late 19th and early 20th century in England . The book is about the explorer Fawcett's quest for the lost city of El Dorado, called \"Z\" in the Amazon. Because no one really and truly knows what DID happen to Fawcett and his son in their last Amazon region in 1925, a large amount of the book is filler. Fawcett's British colonial background, his early years, other explorations, his family, his involvement in the Royal Geographical Society and the colonial and imperialist mix that was current in the late 19th and early 20th century in England ... it's all filler. Finally, finally, FINALLY the author takes the reader on his recent journey to the same area where Fawcett was last reported. The upshot is still that no one knows what happened, despite numerous attempts by numerous people to find out. The book ends with a short description of recent archaeological discoveries in the region that have uncovered much larger population centers and could have given rise to stories about an El Dorado or Z. That's it. The book could have been condensed into 50 pages and told exactly the same story. ...more Seriously How is this real?? So nobody will ever find out what really happened to the Colonel ?? the last 2 chapters, specially when some tribe members started reporting their encounter with the group.....Simply Chilling!! I Love such mysteries. They just get lodged in the back of your mind cause there are no answers. I Hope the movie is just as good. On his first expeditions into the Amazon, in the days before airplanes or even radios, Percy Harrison Fawcett learned how to avoid poisonous frogs and venomous coral snakes. He also knew to stay away from a species of ant that could \u201creduce the men\u2019s clothes and rucksacks to threads in a single night,\u201d flesh-eating chiggers, parasitic worms, and a catalog of other bugs that could maim or kill. If the insects didn\u2019t get you, malaria might, or the poisoned arrow of a hostile tribesman. Crossing ri On his first expeditions into the Amazon, in the days before airplanes or even radios, Percy Harrison Fawcett learned how to avoid poisonous frogs and venomous coral snakes. He also knew to stay away from a species of ant that could \u201creduce the men\u2019s clothes and rucksacks to threads in a single night,\u201d flesh-eating chiggers, parasitic worms, and a catalog of other bugs that could maim or kill. If the insects didn\u2019t get you, malaria might, or the poisoned arrow of a hostile tribesman. Crossing rivers was hazardous because of the piranhas, and don\u2019t even ask about the itty-bitty \u201cvampire fishes\u201d that access the human body through the most intimate orifices with very unpleasant consequences. Plus, there is not as much to eat in the Amazon as you\u2019d think, so running out of food was always a real possibility. Fawcett once reported shooting an anaconda that was said to be 60 feet long, although there is some doubt as to whether it was really larger than average, and they generally don\u2019t grow longer than 27 feet. However, for me personally, when you\u2019re talking about giant snakes, after 18 or 20 feet, graduations in size cease to matter very much. So with such a lovely environment to enjoy, who wouldn\u2019t want to go back? Fawcett was one of the last great Victorian-era gentleman explorers, and his trips between 1906 and 1924, on behalf of the British Royal Geographic Society, were to map borders, find river sources and study wildlife in areas that were still just big blank spaces on the map. But he became increasingly fascinated by rumors of a fabled ancient city in the uncharted interior of South America and developed an obsession with finding it. In 1925 he undertook a private expedition to try to locate the remnants of \u201cThe Lost City of Z.\u201d Its discovery would prove the existence of an ancient civilization that was much more sophisticated than was thought to be possible in the jungle. (I found it helpful to re-visit the chapter in Charles Mann\u2019s 1491 that deals with new theories about the likelihood of advanced societies in that part of the world.) When Fawcett and his son Jack did not come back from his last trip to the middle of the continent, their disappearance was the cause of speculation for years about exactly what might have happened to them. Many others went looking for the lost explorers, and many of them did not return either. The Lost City of Z is writer David Grann\u2019s account of what he learned about Fawcett\u2019s journey and fate through his own journey through archives, records and letters, and a 2005 field trip to Fawcett\u2019s Dead Horse Camp, near where he was last seen, deep in the jungles of Brazil. ...more I love a good yarn. I love those crazy stories about hidden treasures, travels to the ends of the earth, and driving obsessions - the more real they are, the better. In the Twenties, explorer Percy Fawcett wandered into the jungles of the Amazon to find the Lost City of Z, aka the ancient civilization, El Dorado. He was obsessed with the concept of this hidden civilization, and spent years researching and studying before embarking on his journey. But what happened? We know that most of his team d I love a good yarn. I love those crazy stories about hidden treasures, travels to the ends of the earth, and driving obsessions - the more real they are, the better. In the Twenties, explorer Percy Fawcett wandered into the jungles of the Amazon to find the Lost City of Z, aka the ancient civilization, El Dorado. He was obsessed with the concept of this hidden civilization, and spent years researching and studying before embarking on his journey. But what happened? We know that most of his team died along the way, and that he sent his then 21-year-old son back home. But then the story ends basically, because Fawcett never made it out of the jungle. Was he driven to death by his own obsession? Was he eaten by a ginormous snake? Did he find the Lost City of Z and decide to just hang there for the rest of his days? David Grann picks up the story by not necessarily answering those questions, but by trying to follow in Fawcett's footsteps. Well... without that pesky \"getting-lost-in-the-Amazon-and-probably-dying\" thing. This is an engrossing story and totally fulfilled the wannabe archeologist I have inside, all the while reminding me that I would never last in the Amazon. It's hot, it's humid , there are bugs I've never even imagined (and I'm not being especially girly - I'm talking about mosquitoes that suck the juice off your eyeballs or those annoying things that basically get inside your junk and can not be removed), vampire bats, and did I mention the humidity? Yeah, it's not really a place that I could call home, but Fawcett apparently could, and Grann sure as heck could at least hang with the best of them. More power to those guys. Still, the bouncing back and forth between Grann's own expedition and that of Fawcett's was distracting at times. It would have been better if Grann just took one storyline and ran with it as they are singularly pretty fascinating. But Grann did a decent job of finding primary sources to back his (and Fawcett's) claims. My list of books to hunt down now has increased exponentially, and I suppose I can thank Grann for that, though I think it has more to do with the absolute craziness that possessed Fawcett that makes me want to know more about him. ...more<---C>David Grann</---C><+++>The Lost City of Z: A Tale of Deadly Obsession in the Amazon</+++>", "Title": "The Lost City of Z: A Tale of Deadly Obsession in the Amazon"},
