{"Comments": "They are rich,<---M> they are young</---M>, they are attractive...but are they also doomed? \u201cThe mask, given time, comes to be the face itself\u201d whispers Sophia, the glamorous protagonist of this suggestive tale of love and redemption, quoting Marguerite Yourcenar to mercurial Alistair Connor, a fallen angel with a dark past held captive in a robust body and a puerile mind, whom she endeavors to save from himself. But is Sophia ready to be saved? Betrayed is the second installment in the Trust Trilogy , in which They are rich, they are young, they are attractive...but are they also doomed? \u201cThe mask, given time, comes to be the face itself\u201d whispers Sophia, the glamorous protagonist of this suggestive tale of love and redemption, quoting Marguerite Yourcenar to mercurial Alistair Connor, a fallen angel with a dark past held captive in a robust body and a puerile mind, whom she endeavors to save from himself. But is Sophia ready to be saved? Betrayed is the second installment in the Trust Trilogy , in which readers who previously met Sophia and Alistair will continue to unravel their mysterious pasts, impenetrable psyches and most deeply rooted fears and to bask in the distinctive sophistication of Serruya\u2019s high class characters who wrestle against the conventions of their frivolous lives using indestructible love as their only weapon. Set in the present time and mainly a vivid romance with tinges of erotica and some erratic yet brilliant flashes of existential pondering, Serruya draws an opulent setting with steady hand that contrasts with the blurriness of disgruntled characters, whose scarred memories prevent them from showing their true colors and paint an harmonious future. Traumatized rivals, ghosts of perverted ex-wives and all kind of menacing acquaintances embodying Sophia and Alistair\u2019s past demons will try to destabilize their perfect union while disclosing themes such as the fragile line separating harmless jealousy from obsessive possession or the multiple challenges independent women in traditionally male-dominated fields are exposed to. Parental relationships, psychological abuse and morbid dependency syndrome become the backdrop of a lavish scenario alternating sumptuous Scottish castles, mansions in Brazil and luxurious apartments in London. Will Alistair and Sophia\u2019s love prevail or will they succumb to their own vulnerabilities and betray what they most covet, missing their only chance for salvation? <---A>Cristiane Serruya</---A> offers an effective form of uncomplicated escapism with this fast paced novel that provides tantalizing entertainment and fleeting gratification sprinkled with uneven yet incisive brushstrokes of the female psyche and its most hidden desires. My reading experience with erotica is far too limited to draw appropriate parallels with other writers of the same genre, but Serruya\u2019s lavish descriptions of the Scottish landscape evoke those of Diana Gabaldon\u2019s in her \u201cOutlander\u201d series and her refreshing prose manages to delineate the elusive concept of self-respect with firm pulse, reminding me of headstrong and dignified Claire Randall, the main character in the aforesaid series. Both Sophia and Alistair might choose to remain opaque behind the masks of confidence they so carefully built to disguise their insecurities from each other, but they appear crystal clear in the eyes of the reader and even predictable in the many twists and turns, falling-in-and-outs and feverish, sometimes even overheated reconciliations that permeate the story. All in all, a rewarding journey in spite of it lacking the spark of the unknown that came with the first installment, which I am sure will magically be rekindled in earnest in Pandora\u2019s Box , the last volume in the Trust Trilogy . *** Note: I was offered a free copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review. ...more I almost always review a book the moment I finish with it but with this book I needed a couple of days to digest it in my head. I went into this book expecting much, yes, and - wow! I was wrong. Betrayed is even better than A New Beginning. And it is even hotter than the first one. First, the formatting is different from the first one. Ms. Serruya takes us from present to past, back to present and then again back to the past. So many revelations and so many angst and dark scenes. Through Sophia' I almost always review a book the moment I finish with it but with this book I needed a couple of days to digest it in my head. I went into this book expecting much, yes, and - wow! I was wrong. Betrayed is even better than A New Beginning. And it is even hotter than the first one. First, the formatting is different from the first one. Ms. Serruya takes us from present to past, back to present and then again back to the past. So many revelations and so many angst and dark scenes. Through Sophia's, Alistair's and Ethan's past and dark secrets, much is revealed and explained. In 555 pages, with less descriptions than the first book, as we already know the characters and their idiosyncrasies and the settings, Ms. Serruya dug deep in emotions and characters' interactions. With so many insights and so many feelings splayed and spilling through its pages, this book is a roller-coaster. It made me cry and sob with Alistair, it made me fear for Sophia's life and sanity, it made me hate Ethan and at the same time pity him, it made me laugh with Gabriela, Lachlann, Tavish and Scott. It made me happy, sad and mad. Specially at the end, it made me specially mad.<---F> This is not nice, Ms</---F>. Serruya, not nice at all. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [I was so happy that Sophia and Alistair were going to marry and have their HEA and in the last sentence of the book - the last sentence you tell us it is not forever?! Why, Ms. Serruya? Why are you so mean? (hide spoiler) ] But I love you anyway, Ms. Serruya. It was quite astounding how Ms. Serruya leads the readers to think one thing and then bam! she leaves us all cliff-hanging again. Although it made me mad, I found that to be really, really great! Ms. Serruya has a superb way of writing. She has an amazing talent with descriptions and does a great job twisting her words. She writes flawlessly and makes the readers feel as if a film is passing in front of their eyes. Now, Ms. Serruya, I challenge you to do an even better book than the first two installments to end this trilogy! Keep writing, keep bringing these marvelous books to us. A little casting: Sophia - She was very hard to find, but I guess she would be something along these lines: [image error] Alistair Connor is impossible. Ms. Serruya created such a handsome, amazing man, that after hours looking, this is the best I could find and still I know it's not fair to AC. and Ethan (not so difficult to find): [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more What can I say? It's my book and I loved writing it. I hope you also enjoy reading it! I want to publicly thank all my beta and advanced readers who help me through these last days: Amy Haroulakis, Haylee Tippet, Leta Fisher, Natty Girl (Natalie Gerber), Niyati Makinkurve, S\u00f3nia Costa, Stacey Price and Tammy Thompson. Ladies, your caring feedback helped a lot! Thanks! And Braine at Talk Supe; Holly Polk, at Full Moon Bites, Katie Grant at Babbling About Books and More; Mariann Mclaughlin, at Belle What can I say? It's my book and I loved writing it. I hope you also enjoy reading it! I want to publicly thank all my beta and advanced readers who help me through these last days: Amy Haroulakis, Haylee Tippet, Leta Fisher, Natty Girl (Natalie Gerber), Niyati Makinkurve, S\u00f3nia Costa, Stacey Price and Tammy Thompson. Ladies, your caring feedback helped a lot! Thanks! And Braine at Talk Supe; Holly Polk, at Full Moon Bites, Katie Grant at Babbling About Books and More; Mariann Mclaughlin, at Belle\u2019s Book Bag; Marina Moura, at Minha Vida Por Um Livro; Naadir Idrus, at The-Bookaholics, Niyati Mavinkurve, at Books, Food and Me, Pamela, reviewing as Mason Canyon, at Thoughts in Progress; Roxanne Rhoads, at Bewitching Book Tours; Svetlana Len, at Sveta Random Blog; And so many, many others! Thanks! Betrayed is the sequel of TRUST: A New Beginning. ...more :O Speechless, beyond recognition. If the first installment was good, the second one won't fail you. Actually, it's BETTER. The start of Betrayed is like in your Ferrari, at full speed, on a wet asphalt road. Every turn is neck-breaking, the sex scenes are HOTTER and the characters' emotions are deeply-written, it's like the book the just devoured you into its own world and it's very hard to extract! I was literally biting my thumbs when I reached the last three chapters of the story... But more to :O Speechless, beyond recognition. If the first installment was good, the second one won't fail you. Actually, it's BETTER. The start of Betrayed is like in your Ferrari, at full speed, on a wet asphalt road. Every turn is neck-breaking, the sex scenes are HOTTER and the characters' emotions are deeply-written, it's like the book the just devoured you into its own world and it's very hard to extract! I was literally biting my thumbs when I reached the last three chapters of the story... But more to that... I CRIED WHEN I IMAGINED THE PAIN AND CHALLENGES Alistair faced after he lost Nathalie and I pitied him for having a troubled woman like Heather to enter his personal life and be the \"wretched\" mother for Nathalie! (Curse her!) Sophia is any man's most desirable woman. She's gorgeous, absurdly beautiful, crackpot wise, clever and intelligent, tender and does charity work. Gabriela, the child-wonder of the story, indeed deserved a mother like her as much as Sophia deserved a daughter lie Gabriela. Ethan -sighs- why can't you just love Gabriela as much as Sophia (Team Ethan here). I can't bear to imagine him going \"bananas\" just because he lost the woman he loved very much and have some another Sophia-look-alike to... I don't know how you say it but... \"feel the love he once felt from Sophia\"... Why Ethan? Why Alistair - I PITY HIM! Gawd, the story about his past troubled my emotions. It stirred me, as if like I am watching it live instead of reading it on my PC. (sobbing really hard) When the characters' past were unveiled, the speed doubled and I can't stop reading. I cried along the way, with my longest hangover for two days. Describing my awe to Trust's 2nd Installment is a pretty long review that no words can match it's SUPERB! AND I HOPE THIS LOVE TRIANGLE WILL SETTLE SOONER... I HAVE MY BIAS HERE SO I'LL START CHEERING: Ethan and Sophia! Team Ethan! At any rate... Trust Trilogy, you won't regret having it on your bookshelf/eBook reader. A ROMANCE LIKE NO OTHER. ...more OH SWEET MOTHER OF GOD!!!!! Needless to say that was not my first thought when I finished the book, my first thought wasn't so polite ;) That is the definition of me being polite (Ok I'm never polite when I review a book so screw it!!! ) JESUS FUCKING CHRIST!!! Now I feel a lot better :D I can't seem to be rational in any of Cristiane's books, I don't even know how to rate them ( Yes I gave a 5 star to both of them ), but this is definitely an off the chart book. Not all the stars in the world would OH SWEET MOTHER OF GOD!!!!! Needless to say that was not my first thought when I finished the book, my first thought wasn't so polite ;) That is the definition of me being polite (Ok I'm never polite when I review a book so screw it!!! ) JESUS FUCKING CHRIST!!! Now I feel a lot better :D I can't seem to be rational in any of Cristiane's books, I don't even know how to rate them ( Yes I gave a 5 star to both of them ), but this is definitely an off the chart book. Not all the stars in the world would be enough to describe how much I LOVED this MASTERPIECE!!! ARC provided by the author in exchange for an honest review! ...more OMG OMG OMG OMG!!! The book is LIVE on Amazon RIGHT NOW!!! YAY for early release, people!!! Well. Well, well, well! I wasn't expecting it! The first book was good, very good, but this one is intelligent, deep, touching. It will make you smile and laugh, it will make you cry and sad, it will make you fell good and happy. It took me on an emotional storm that left me wrung out but richer. It's beautifully crafted - every element, every character, all combined and contributing to the artful and emotionally intense world Cristiane creates. I felt caught up in, and utterly swept away by its Well. Well, well, well! I wasn't expecting it! The first book was good, very good, but this one is intelligent, deep, touching. It will make you smile and laugh, it will make you cry and sad, it will make you fell good and happy. It took me on an emotional storm that left me wrung out but richer. It's beautifully crafted - every element, every character, all combined and contributing to the artful and emotionally intense world Cristiane creates. I felt caught up in, and utterly swept away by its power. How could the second book of a trilogy, that is usually the most weak, be better than the first? For those who complained about the supposed excessive descriptions/brands on the first book (not me, by the way. I love them all), be happy, there are considering less descriptions/brands. But still the book is fashionable without being OTP. The story flows smoothly and fast. It's not a story you read on a seating if you have to work on the following day. The book is huge: 555 pages of intelligent reading, an intelligent hot romance . You have to stop and think. Sometimes you have to go back in the book. Not because she didn't explain the scene well. No. Because it is so pungent, so beautiful, and so intelligent that you want to memorize every part of the book. And it will make you evaluate many thing you have done in you life. And, better, it will make you think twice before doing something. Don't get me wrong! This is not a treaty or one of those boring books trying to pass on morals. While it's an intelligent book, things are hot, hot, hot too. But even on the hot scenes there're something delicate and insightful. The name, Betrayed, it's not what it seems. (view spoiler) [There is no real physical betrayal on this book. (hide spoiler) ] I believe it's done on purpose, to make us think that sometimes the worst betrayal is done in so many different ways that we don't even perceive it. And dear Sophia - :O - is not what she seems too. I was astonished! I could never imagine the twist and turns Cristiane Serruya created. When we meet Sophia in the first book, she is all charm, politeness and primness. Since figuring out Sophia is an enormous part of the emotionally process while she regains her memories, I won't take that away from you, not even on a spoiler parenthesis. Instead of the first book that started a little slow this takes you on a roller-caster from the epilogue. The flashes of Ethan's early childhood, teenage and young adult years make your heart bleeds for him. Seeing it from a very realistic angle, we can understand a bit his obsession. One of the most realistic fictional characters I have read. Some people wish they had the courage to wake up one day, throw away all the bad things they have been through and realize there is more to life. I guess Ethan has tried it. But every time he starts doing this, he falls again. And he can't go anywhere, he can't get away from it all. So, he learns how to live with all his pains and betrayals and hurts. Then we have hunk, tortured, Alistair that suffers and suffers and OMG suffers, as he sees flash-backs of his younger years and tells Sophia of his late wife's (view spoiler) [betrayal in threesome, orgies, drugs and so much more (hide spoiler) ] . Oh. And How could I forget dear, dear Gabriela. Intelligent, fiery loyal, Gabriela. On the chapters, she make me cry again. In fact, the three of them, Alistair, Sophia and Gabriela. It is hard to share much of the story without giving it away. If you thought Sophia amazing before, wait for this book. If you loved Alistair and Ethan, OMG!! read this book. The characters came out much more complex and real-feeling, with their unique voices and dramas. Yes, Sophia's, Ethan's and Alistair's personas are illusions, fa\u00e7ades that are peeled off layer by layer. And although the end is satisfying, it still has many, many things that leaves you hanging and screaming: Cristiane, you are now my favorite author. And I hope to be your biggest fan! I'll be hibernating till Pandora's Box. P.S. - A last word. Cristiane Serruya looks very much like Sophia. She is very intelligent, attentive to the details, to her readers, reviewers and friends. She is kind and polite. I'm honored to call her my favourite author.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I read this book as a beta reader so I was honored with getting it ahead of schedule. WOW, WOW, WOW! That's about all I can say. Sophia is the perfect woman with an awesome sense of humor. She is beautiful with a sense of style and class. She stands up for herself even under the worst circumstances but it will take you by surprise how smart & insightful she is. Emotionally she feels and says all the right things. She is in love with an Alpha male (Alistair) but can HER Alpha side and his str I read this book as a beta reader so I was honored with getting it ahead of schedule. WOW, WOW, WOW! That's about all I can say. Sophia is the perfect woman with an awesome sense of humor. She is beautiful with a sense of style and class. She stands up for herself even under the worst circumstances but it will take you by surprise how smart & insightful she is. Emotionally she feels and says all the right things. She is in love with an Alpha male (Alistair) but can HER Alpha side and his strong side keep them together. Alistair's dark side forces Sophia to escape, not sure that she wants what Alistair could be offering. Alistair & Sophia, both deeply in love with each other (not feeling worthy of each other but can't stay away from each other) want each other but not sure that their personalities are good together. He wants a woman to submit (Alistair likes to give orders) she doesn't want to submit (and let me tell you, she does a good job at bucking him every chance she has). It is a battle of wills between the 2 of them both physically & emotionally. The sex, I can't even begin to describe that. Ethan is still in love with Sophia & he will do anything he can to get her back. Then another character comes into play (Anna, Alistair's deceased wife's sister). Trouble! Sophia's is starting to remember. She was shot when her 1st husband was kidnapped and remembers very little of the trauma she endured during the kidnapping. She has nightmares and they are vivid and frequent. She has secrets & she is not sure why anyone would love her once she reveals her sins. Alistair has his secrets too. Can they both survive together once they reveal their sins. I highly recommend this book. It has so much depth, story line is rich and well planned. The physical & emotional content is chilling. So many parts of this book brought tears to my eyes. The descriptive content is flawless. Grab this series, you won't regret it. It is definitely a book you will want to read again. Highly emotional, Highly erotic. ...more So the the loving saga continues! You have to read this! Sophia is the kind of lady any woman would hope to be! Love it! This is yet another awesome offering from Serruya. It follows on perfectly from the first in the series but contains a prologue/intro for those who haven't read the first one. Intelligent. Emotional. Romantic. Sensual. Fast. Thriller. A MUST READ It took me awhile to finish this romance because I had a business trip after I started, but I guess if I hadn't I would read it without even sleeping. Betrayed is better than A New Beginning. It's not quite that Cristiane's style has changed but it's surely more mature, flower. The first book was good, but this... Can I give it 10 golden stars? It still has it's hot sex scenes - wow! but, I quite don't know how to explain, the e Intelligent. Emotional. Romantic. Sensual. Fast. Thriller. A MUST READ It took me awhile to finish this romance because I had a business trip after I started, but I guess if I hadn't I would read it without even sleeping. Betrayed is better than A New Beginning. It's not quite that Cristiane's style has changed but it's surely more mature, flower. The first book was good, but this... Can I give it 10 golden stars? It still has it's hot sex scenes - wow! but, I quite don't know how to explain, the emotions are deeper, the writing is smoother and the pace is even faster. The story line was tragic yet beautiful. . . And differently from the first book, where Cristiane involved us in billionaire brands and places, this one is rawer. Some parts were so tragically painful that I had to stop because my tears won't let me continue. My heart broke and was put together, broke all over again and when I thought that I was mend, with just one sentence, with the last sentence before the epilogue, Cristiane broke my heart again. There weren't enough tragedies for Sophia and Alistair? The pleasurable and painful moments were both beautifully done. The characters are so well layered so fleshed out, I felt like I knew them and I could really relate to them, even to Ethan. If you enjoy books that are character driven, deal with issues and emotions that are real, but give you hope that even the darkest times can be flooded with light, then you will love Betrayed. Sophia and Ethan were so sensitively dealt, how their relationship was dealt with that I almost thought - and I still hope - that the love triangle is undone, that Ethan would have a HEA. Then Alistair and Sophia's relationship was amazingly treated. I thought that they wouldn't stay together because of Alistair's BDSM preferences, and then I found myself - Wait a moment - is this considered BDSM too? And although I was screaming 'say yes, say yes!!' I fully understood her doubts, her anguish and her fears. And I was in awe of the lengths Sophia went to considered staying with him. My heart broke for Alistair and Nathalie and Sophia, Gabriel and Gabriela, and then it soared as Sophia and Alistair met half-way and they could have hope in life again. That wonderful little girl, Gabriela, reminds me much of my own niece and how some children can be so intelligent and perceptive and help the adults through difficult ways with a simple question or gesture. A hurray for you, Gabriela. Through the story of these three amazing characters, you will experience hurt, pain, anger, hate, fear, lust, love, hope,(among lots of others) and most importantly redemption. OMG! That redemption scene in her TV room and the one with Gabriela almost at the end of the book was absolutely moving. I will read anything Cristiane writes, because she gave me, in what some people would call a romance, profound messages that will stay with me forever. This was hands down one of the most amazing books I've ever read. I'm eternally devoted! Do not go another day without reading this book. Shove everything in your TBR pile down one, and put this on top. You won't regret it!! [image error] ...more \"<+++>Trust: Betrayed</+++>\" by Cristiane Serruya is the sequel of the TRUST trilogy. To say it was a wonderful read if the understatement of the century. The book itill brings to us the 'filthy rich, beautiful tormented souls' of Sophia, Ethan and Alistair, but now they revisits face to face in their pasts what caused their torments and what made them the way they are. They are struggling to see themselves through forgiving eyes, but have yet to learn how to do it. The readers are taken from present to th \"<+++>Trust: Betrayed</+++>\" by Cristiane Serruya is the sequel of the TRUST trilogy. To say it was a wonderful read if the understatement of the century. The book itill brings to us the 'filthy rich, beautiful tormented souls' of Sophia, Ethan and Alistair, but now they revisits face to face in their pasts what caused their torments and what made them the way they are. They are struggling to see themselves through forgiving eyes, but have yet to learn how to do it. The readers are taken from present to the past and back and forth. In a completely different writing style, but not at all boring or confusing, uch on the opposite, engaging and compelling, we are able to better understand the emotions and the depths that drive together and apart these lovers as their motives become clear and their personalities unfold, revealing secrets they are unimaginable. It seems a huge book (555 pages), but this novel has so many twists and turns that it moves so quickly that before you know it's over and you are starting it all over again. I was left thinking omg... and then wth... And then I needed a cold shower! The story line is so rich and well plotted and the physical, emotional content makes you laugh and cry, smile and cry again. I love how Cristiane Serruya dug her nails in and skinned out Sophia's and Alistair Connor's dramas, by showing their compelling internalization and dilemmas. The ways they went through were heart wrenching, and crawling through out of those love, dramas and choices to be made was emotionally and mentally torturous for the readers and I'm sure for the author too. (view spoiler) [Their great love for each other is what saved them. (hide spoiler) ] Cristiane Serruya wrote those sequences with heart and self-deprecation. The misery, guilt, pain and fear surround the three leading main characters, who are tormented with daily and past problems are humbling. They are well-balanced, realistic and easy to relate, even with their bad flaws. It has a flawless descriptive content, without so many brands dropping, but still with the properly described setting that only lead the reader to one certain conclusion: \"Trust: Betrayed\" was a excellent amazing read. (view spoiler) [A P.S. - One of the scenes that had me most in tears was the one were Gabriela asks Alistair is she could call him Daddy. (hide spoiler) ] That was be not fair, that was the most beautiful thing I have ever read. Cristiane Serruya, as always, is a master of characterization. It's worth another read! ...more THIS BOOK WAS AWESOME!!!! We get to know more about Sophia's, Alistair's and Ethan's past, I really liked that because now I can understand them better BUT I didn't like when I was reading a REALLY REALLY REALLY good scene or someone was going to say something important and BOOM a scene from the past!! Not cool!! I really really like Sophia!!! Alistair tries to order her around and she's like : \"oh I don't think so!!\" and does the opposite :D There was one thing I didn't like about her in this boo THIS BOOK WAS AWESOME!!!! We get to know more about Sophia's, Alistair's and Ethan's past, I really liked that because now I can understand them better BUT I didn't like when I was reading a REALLY REALLY REALLY good scene or someone was going to say something important and BOOM a scene from the past!! Not cool!! I really really like Sophia!!! Alistair tries to order her around and she's like : \"oh I don't think so!!\" and does the opposite :D There was one thing I didn't like about her in this book SHE SAID SHE TRUSTS HIM BUT DOESN'T TELL HIM HER SECRETS!!!! While she pressures Alistair to tell her his secrets which he tells her because he knew that his ex wife was getting in the way of his relationship with her!! I was REALLY surprised when I discovered Sophia's secret I was like WOW REALLY?! (view spoiler) [Sophia ordering to cut the left finger of the guys that killed Gabriel and then only one of them survived!! I totally understand where her guilt comes from, she indirectly killed 10(damn I don't remember how many guys were :/) and they had families so she \"killed\" fathers, husbands, brothers, etc..she lost Gabriel so she knows what the women in those man lives felt like and that's why I think she feels so guilty (hide spoiler) ] But I think I was kinda of expecting something like that. Alistair Alistair *sighs* I LOVE HIM!!!!!! HE'S PERFECT FOR SOPHIA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! (I think you know what team I am.) I was so sad when I was reading the chapters that had his past!! My poor baby!!! I already knew somethings from the first book but in this one we discover EVERYTHING (I hope) (view spoiler) [God having a wife like Heather jesus I want to resurrect her and kill her all over again!!!!!!!! WHAT A FREAKING BITCH !! SHE DESTROYED ALISTAIR!! Because of her he feels guilty that the night her and Natalie died he didn't call Alice first to see if his daughter was there BECAUSE OF HER HE LOST HIS ONLY DAUGHTER!!!!!! BECAUSE OF HER HE'S STERILE!!!!! I hope there's a small chance he can get Sophia pregnant!! He would be so so so happy!!!!! (hide spoiler) ] . Alistair grew a lot in this book, he accepted his past and he was finally ready to built a future with Sophia (view spoiler) [I WAS SO HAPPY WHEN THEY GOT ENGAGED AND THEIR WEDDING WAS SO PRETTY!!!!!!!!! (hide spoiler) ] .I still think he overreacts sometimes but I still love him :D Now Ethan...I just don't understand how can people be team Ethan!!!!! God he's so OBSESSED with Sophia!! He tracks her down every freaking minute of the day!!! He hired someone to hack her computer and the place she works!!!!!!!!!! He's creepy and I pity him...yeah he had a bad past but what he does it's too much and he should find help!!!!!!!!!!! Though I don't think he's good for Sophia I still want him to have a happy ending and PLEASE don't do any crazy shit to ruin Alistair and Sophia's relationship in the third book!!! In this book Heather's sister shows up, Emma, and OMG BITCH!!! I will murder you!! (view spoiler) [I WANT TO KNOW WHO WAS THE PERSON IN THE CAR WHEN SHE GOT OUT OF THE HOSPITAL!!!!! (hide spoiler) ] . Gabriel's parents also show up and let me tell you I have a bad feeling about Gabriel's father....I HATE HIM!! HE LEFT HIS SON TO DIE!!!!!!!!!!!! Alistair and Gabriela's relationship *-* SO SO SO ADORABLE!!! (view spoiler) [Gabriela asking if she could call Alistair daddy!!!! (hide spoiler) ] god I melted when I read this part!!! I really enjoyed reading the second book it was much better than the first one and I can't wait to read the last book!! ...more This is a sequel to Trust: A New Beginning, and is much more better than the first. The second of the TRUST trilogy takes us back to the billionaire world of insanely beautiful, painfully tormented souls of Sofia, Alistair and Ethan. We are able to better understand the emotions that drive these lovers together and apart as their motives become clear and lawyers of their personalities and peeled for us. Instead of a onion, think of a rose blossoming. This adds to the compelling need to know more an This is a sequel to Trust: A New Beginning, and is much more better than the first. The second of the TRUST trilogy takes us back to the billionaire world of insanely beautiful, painfully tormented souls of Sofia, Alistair and Ethan. We are able to better understand the emotions that drive these lovers together and apart as their motives become clear and lawyers of their personalities and peeled for us. Instead of a onion, think of a rose blossoming. This adds to the compelling need to know more and experience their amazing lives from the three POV. The plot thickens and deepens, and the already complex characters reveal their dark deeds and a secrets. It proves that even in paradise, there are misgivings, cynicism and doubt. And no matter the privileges and wealth, the rich aren't different from the rest of us. The book is very complex nonetheless extremely organized and the way it's narrated makes the complexity disappear. I enjoyed its multiple layers as they are peeled, and was not bothered by details at all. And the thoughts we can hear, and the different things they say is absolutely insightful for the readers. A round of applause for Cristiane. Sophia is, (after my wife) the perfect woman. She has style and class and a sense of humor. She is strong and stands up for herself, even under the worst circumstances but it will take you by surprise how smart & insightful she is. She is in love with an Alpha male (Alistair) but can HER Alpha side and his strong side keep them together? Sophia's is starting to remember. She was shot and developed partial amnesia very little of the trauma she endured during her husband's kidnapping. . She has secrets & she is not sure why anyone would love her once she reveals her sins. Her secret is so dark, that it shocked me, But my wife (her again) said she would have done the same thing. Alistair has his secrets too. Alistair has secrets and although decided he can compromised he commits a fault - well two. APPLAUSES FOR SOPHIA ON THE FIRST SCENE. Can they both survive together once they reveal their sins? Alistair's dark side forces Sophia to escape after a later scene, she is not sure that she is ready for what Alistair wants. Alistair & Sophia, both deeply in love with each other, are afraid of not feeling worthy of each other because of their secrets. Nonetheless, they can't stay away from each other. There's a battle of wills, physically & emotionally. Can too Alpha partners co-exists? Ethan is still in love with Sophia & he will do anything he can to get her back. As much as I want to hate Ethan, even his anger, fear and doubt is reasoned in his mistreat, neglected and abused childhood. Then another character comes into play (Emma, Alistair's deceased wife's sister). Trouble in sight! Will their love survive another trouble? I highly recommend this book. It's physical & emotional content. So many parts of this book brought tears my wife's eyes. It has so much depth, it's fat paced and story line is rich and well planned. It's flawless. Grab this series, you won't regret it. Highly emotional, Highly erotic. The sex, I can't even begin to describe that. It's not erotica, it's subtle and it enhances their relationship. I enjoyed this book (and my wife much more, she asked me to say this.) It is definitely a book you will want to read again and put on your favorite shelf (or kindle) ...more STYLISH AND PASSIONATE This is the second book in the series, the first Trust: A New Beginning introduced us to most of the main players. Here in book two the story moves forward detailing the ongoing changes in the three main characters relationships with one another. There are many secrets that are revealed, all three characters have dark secrets in their pasts. This is quite a long book in which much happens. It would be very easy to give the plot away. I don't want to do that. But what I will STYLISH AND PASSIONATE This is the second book in the series, the first Trust: A New Beginning introduced us to most of the main players. Here in book two the story moves forward detailing the ongoing changes in the three main characters relationships with one another. There are many secrets that are revealed, all three characters have dark secrets in their pasts. This is quite a long book in which much happens. It would be very easy to give the plot away. I don't want to do that. But what I will say is, that this is IMO a far superior read to book one. The characters are better developed and have real depth and are very easy to relate to. The story is full of twists and turns, the reader is never quite sure what's going to happen next. As for the love scenes they are scorching hot, but full of emotion. But most of all it's the plot here that makes this book stand out from the crowd. Of the three main characters I found it difficult to have a favourite, all have their own distinct personalities, with good and bad points. The writing style is smooth and flowing, the story moves between the past and present. But not at any time did that interfere with the balance of the story. I would like to thank the author for allowing me a copy of this book. I can only imagine what might happen in part three, but I will definitely be reading it. ...more ARC provided by the author for honest feedback - Thank you Cristiane. I loved this book. The characters are deep and the plot has tons of twists and turns. Its a very intense read. I ran through the gamut of emotions - from happy to angry to sad and back again. For me, it wasn't a one sitting kind of book. There was so much information and so many emotions that I had to put it down and walk away every so often. The multiple POV's give the reader an idea of what is going on in each character's he ARC provided by the author for honest feedback - Thank you Cristiane. I loved this book. The characters are deep and the plot has tons of twists and turns. Its a very intense read. I ran through the gamut of emotions - from happy to angry to sad and back again. For me, it wasn't a one sitting kind of book. There was so much information and so many emotions that I had to put it down and walk away every so often. The multiple POV's give the reader an idea of what is going on in each character's head. There is no unnecessary angst, or adolescent misunderstandings. Overall, excellent - 4.5 stars. ...more Great 2nd book in the series! Loved it! Trust Betrayed( Part-2 of the Trust Series) 'Widowed were not those alive, but those who were dead.'- Cristiane Serruya Some secrets are revealed, some hearts broken and many dreams will come true... or atleast they should! This is a journey worth embarking upon by all adults atleast once, because it has so much more than what is considered to be the staple content in all romantic fictions. It is a tragedy yet a tale of hope, of happiness, regrets and a never-ending suspense and above all, a melanc Trust Betrayed( Part-2 of the Trust Series) 'Widowed were not those alive, but those who were dead.'- Cristiane Serruya Some secrets are revealed, some hearts broken and many dreams will come true... or atleast they should! This is a journey worth embarking upon by all adults atleast once, because it has so much more than what is considered to be the staple content in all romantic fictions. It is a tragedy yet a tale of hope, of happiness, regrets and a never-ending suspense and above all, a melancholy that stays with the reader long after the story is over. Guess it's the author's stint with law as a lawyer who specializes in cases of sexual abuse and violence against children and women has brought immense depth and has provided a strong foundation to this story. It brings to light many of the silent tortures that women often have to deal with and sometimes do get used to it to such an extent that they become addicted to it and it ultimately destroys their lives. Some might ask- What can possibly be achieved by reading an erotic fiction except for some noxious pleasure to the reader? And to them I say \u2013 for once, try not to read the book in a shallow manner and instead venture just a bit deeper. Surely the incidents revealed to the world might not have been conjured up from thin air. For a 20 year old Indian reader, it did prove to be an eyeball rolling experience once in a while but then on the whole, I was mesmerized by the characters. Sophia, a widow with Gabriela, her daughter, Alistair and Ethan, both fighting their inner devils and changed by the circumstances that life sometimes offers (mind you, it can be so much worse than we think it is possible!) Delve a little deeper and the personality of Tavish can leave you spell-bound. Lachlanne, Alice, Leonard- I could go on and on about all of them. I would gladly give 6-stars for the characterization part alone. For a so-called philosophical being like me, I did get more and more pulled into the way the world functions, one\u2019s destiny and inner-turmoil, the desperate attempts to flee from one\u2019s own past only to be caught red-handed by some memories thrown onto your face when you least expect them to. As a reader, one gets the exclusive opportunity to relish picturesque places (only a well-travelled author can present something like this) and regale one\u2019s senses in the exquisite emotions that are Godsend in all human beings which is packed in this book. Don\u2019t forget to read the Part-1 of the book before turning pages of this one (\u2018Trust\u2019 me- it would be more beautiful that way). For review of Part-1 of the Trust Series- http://critiquedontcriticize.blogspot... Time for Pandora\u2019s Box (Part-3 of the Trust Series). Cristiane, Trust - Encore! -Divya Nambiar Trust: A New Beginning Trust: Betrayed Trust: Pandora's Box The Modern Man: A philosophical divagation about the evil banality of daily acts Cristiane Serruya ...more So, my review... Ooooh, I should let it all hang, simmer, be a bit evil and let Cristiane wait a bit longer just like she does us with all those scenes...! ;) Hmmm, this was somewhat slower than I'd hoped in reading, with all my eye problems, but I got there in the end. I'm glad not so many use pure white pages nowadays, or it might have taken longer! But, here it comes \u2013 my completely honest review. Now, as I've said before, I've never really been a fan of the genre. Erotica has always seemed a bi So, my review... Ooooh, I should let it all hang, simmer, be a bit evil and let Cristiane wait a bit longer just like she does us with all those scenes...! ;) Hmmm, this was somewhat slower than I'd hoped in reading, with all my eye problems, but I got there in the end. I'm glad not so many use pure white pages nowadays, or it might have taken longer! But, here it comes \u2013 my completely honest review. Now, as I've said before, I've never really been a fan of the genre. Erotica has always seemed a bit too sordid for me, something trying to give you what you should have in a relationship, anyway. Why do people need it? Isn't it like literary porn? Yet, I'm glad I got into this series. This is something that's far more than a quick sexual thrill, a peek beneath the sheets; this has bounds of intelligence inside its pages. What could so easily be a fuckfest of the rich, has thoughts and consequences flowing through each page. These people aren't just rich and famous, but are also thoughtful, intelligent, and realise the true worth of others. But the thing I loved most was that here is a woman in charge of her own destiny. Not only does she now own a company, but she is domineering, strong willed. She can say \u201dNO\u201d . That is so refreshing to see in a world filled with women being thrown about as the playthings for men. She doesn\u2019t use them and they don\u2019t use her. This book is about mutual respect, love, pleasure and consent. CONSENT!! Yes, you people in love with Fifty Shades of Grey and such like \u2013 did you forget that that word existed?! Yes, the sexual exploits perhaps go to a point that I wouldn\u2019t, but the partner in these scenarios (notice I\u2019m not saying which one?! :P) show such concern and respect that they allow Sophia to go where she wants to, to choose her own limits. Every woman deserves a partner like that! I also love some of the secrets that are revealed here (view spoiler) [ oooh, I knew that Edward had to be gay! Boy is Alistair going to be relieved when he finds out! (hide spoiler) ] . And yes, I pity Ethan, for all that he\u2019s been through, but in answer to the question I don\u2019t think I\u2019d accept his offer right now, as I don\u2019t think I could be the one to fix him (view spoiler) [. He\u2019s broken, too broken. Maybe if he thought to go to a therapist as well as Alistair, there\u2019d be a chance for him to find someone special. It\u2019s so obvious that the abuse has had its toll on him. I don\u2019t blame his grandfather for what happened, as he had only Ethan\u2019s interests at heart and wanted to make him a man. But his grandfather didn\u2019t even see that the abuse Ethan had already seen meant that his \u201cgifts\u201d could make things worse as well as better (hide spoiler) ] . One thing I also found intriguing - for an ARC copy, this had so few typos compared to the last one. Yet there was a really funny one in there: \"cheery threes\" instead of \"cherry trees\". Oh dear, did that hurt to laugh! Now, when\u2019s the next one?! ...more Exceptional! This is a book that will make you think. Think about you have read before and liked. Think about how a woman should behave. How a man should behave. And how naive you should be with your so-called friends. Apart from the hot, hot, hot scenes, there are exceptional scenes with therapists that are wonderful profound. You don't need to be what the others want you to be. You don't need to fear or to face the bad things that happened in your life. On the other hand, you MUST do it to have Exceptional! This is a book that will make you think. Think about you have read before and liked. Think about how a woman should behave. How a man should behave. And how naive you should be with your so-called friends. Apart from the hot, hot, hot scenes, there are exceptional scenes with therapists that are wonderful profound. You don't need to be what the others want you to be. You don't need to fear or to face the bad things that happened in your life. On the other hand, you MUST do it to have a better life and to admit others in it. I'm in awe. If the first book was a great romance, this one is much more than that. It made me cry, it made me angry, it made me happy, it made me think. Read it. You won't regret. ...more Name of Book: Trust: Betrayed Author: Cristiane Serruya ISBN: 9781482586473 Publisher: Createspace Part of a Series: Trust Trilogy Type of book: relationships, trust, past, 1980s, 2010, love triangle, history, possession, sexuality, wealth, Scotland, Brazil, \"Avenging Angel\", BDSM, vanilla sex Year it was published: 2013 Summary: In BETRAYED, the second installment of the Trust series, Sophia, Ethan and Alistair will face and revisit their past dark deeds. Each one of them will need to overcome their Name of Book: Trust: Betrayed Author: Cristiane Serruya ISBN: 9781482586473 Publisher: Createspace Part of a Series: Trust Trilogy Type of book: relationships, trust, past, 1980s, 2010, love triangle, history, possession, sexuality, wealth, Scotland, Brazil, \"Avenging Angel\", BDSM, vanilla sex Year it was published: 2013 Summary: In BETRAYED, the second installment of the Trust series, Sophia, Ethan and Alistair will face and revisit their past dark deeds. Each one of them will need to overcome their guilt, fear and pain and learn to see themselves through forgiving eyes. Or succumb to their misery. Alistair Connor MacCraig, a powerful banker, and Ethan Ashford, a steel tycoon, are both in love with Sophia Leibowitz, the ravishing owner of Leibowitz Oil. Sophia fells for Alistair's seduction. She is determined to have a relationship with him but a dark and terrible secret lurks beneath the surface she presents to the world. When she regains her memories, shame and fear will take control of her. Will she be able to find peace within herself? Alistair is in love with Sophia but he has difficulties overcoming his guilty over his daughter's death and his sexual preferences. Certain that he doesn't deserve to be loved, he would do everything to push Sophia away, despite his love for her. Will he be able to find redemption? Ethan, no less haunted by his secrets and lies, lives in an alternate reality because the loss of Sophia is too unbearable to face. He would do everything to have Sophia back in his arms Characters: How many licks does it take to the center of the Tootsie Roll? My reply would be G-d only knows. How many layers does Sophia have? G-d only knows. If you think you have fully discovered Sophia in the first book, boy you are wrong. Cristiane masterfully adds more and more layers to her, many I hadn't expected. In the first book I found her an adorable and strong woman who seems to be perfect in every way. In this book we see her vulnerabilities and her dark secrets began to pop out. Perhaps she might be dealing with PTSD (Post traumatic Stress Disorder, I am thinking.) We also see more of her family members; the strong and loyal Felipe, her twin sisters who finish each other sentences, and her younger sister Carolina who has a mysterious fianc\u00e9. Alistair undergoes through a lot of changes in the book and I no longer hated him but wanted him to have a happy ending. While Ethan is there as well, we do learn a lot of his past and he was not a very active character as Sophia and Alistair and were. Gabriella and Alistair's family were there too (Am hoping for a character sheet near the future to keep all the family members straight...) Theme: Its possible to heal through love Plot: This is written in third person narrative from Alistair's, Ethan's and Sophia's points of view. Just like in previous book the narration moves from Alistair's to Sophia's thoughts and so forth, but perhaps I am familiar with her writing style (at least from the first book,) the style didn't annoy me. Lack of transitions between past and present scenes did annoy me, however and I almost didn't give it five stars. That annoyance did last in beginning only, and towards the middle and end the flashbacks came with transitions. One question that I am curious to ask about is, what are the color of Sophia's eyes? Are they hazel, golden or brown? (Sophia's eyes are always described as either hazel or golden...) There aren't a lot of mention of luxury brands in the book and its very tightly woven and has more action than the first book. Author Information: (from goodreads.com) born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil April 25, 1970 gender female website http://cristianeserruya.com.br twitter username CrisSerruya genre Contemporary, Romance, Chick Lit influences Classic literature, historical romance member since November 2012 I live in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with my husband and two daughters. I'm a lawyer, who specializes in cases of sexual abuse and violence against children and women. I also have a Masters in Business Law and a BA in Fine Arts. I've always loved to read, write and listen to music. I lived and studied in England, France, Italy and Switzerland. Traveling is one of my passions - as is keeping fit and healthy. After twenty-two years of practicing law, I decided to give writing a go. And - amazingly - it was just the piece that was missing in my life. Opinion: Wow, she has done it again, earned 5 stars on my book review blog. This is as good, if not better than the first book; Sophia is still smart and sexy and puts limits on herself and others; Alistair is struggling with accepting forgiveness; Ethan is absent for 98 percent of the book, although he does make appearances and the reader is treated to his history, just as more about Sophia and Alistair is also revealed. If one found the labels annoying, (I didn't, but in case if you did,) then they barely appear in this book, and its more plot driven than before. I also learned to like Alistair and rooted for him almost all the time. (Sorry Ethan,) however I did have a few problems with the book: one is to pay careful attention to the ending date in the first book before reading the second book, (in second book without a warning we are transported to few weeks after a certain event in first book,) and second thing that bothered me are the past scenes without rhyme or reason and lack of transitional words to make it smooth. For example, one scene would be focused on Sophia and Alistair, but then without a transit or mention of why, we are switched to a scene from Ethan's past (She does warn ahead of time, but it doesn't fit the narrative,) these switches really bugged me the first half of the book though. When I was done with it, I groaned to heavens at the fact I have to wait SEVEN MONTHS to hopefully read the last book! Quick notes: I would like to thank the author for the opportunity to read and review the book. 5 out of 5 (0: Stay away unless a masochist 1: Good for insomnia 2: Horrible but readable; 3: Readable and quickly forgettable, 4: Good, enjoyable 5: Buy it, keep it and never let it go.) http://sveta-randomblog.blogspot.com/... ...more So... This is the hardest time for me. When I love a book so much, it became full of highlights, it is difficult to put pen on paper to express all the fierce emotions it brought out on me. Betrayed is one of those rare books. First, I must say this book has a very interesting style of going back in time, exactly as I needed more explanation on an obscure behavior of a character. This new (?) style of Cristiane is so gripping that it made me plunge deep in the life of her characters. It wasn't th So... This is the hardest time for me. When I love a book so much, it became full of highlights, it is difficult to put pen on paper to express all the fierce emotions it brought out on me. Betrayed is one of those rare books. First, I must say this book has a very interesting style of going back in time, exactly as I needed more explanation on an obscure behavior of a character. This new (?) style of Cristiane is so gripping that it made me plunge deep in the life of her characters. It wasn't the narrator telling me facts for afar. Her characters where telling me what happened to them, in a show-and-tell so interesting - and different from what I have read so far - that Cristiane opened their hearts and souls to me. In fact, she bares her characters of all the layers of richness and aloofness that covered them in the first book. Sophia, Ethan & AC are still absurdly wealthy, but they have become even more human, with red (hot) blood running in their veins (in spite of AC's peerage heritage, he is the most red-hot-bloody character, imo). Their tragedies, triumphs and emotions are so real and palpable, I felt I knew them as their secrets were revealed more and more. Sophia is strong-willed, beautiful, has a witty sense of humor and intelligent with a loving heart. With all those highlights, her secret will shock you when it is revealed. (Although I was shocked, I understood it.) I love that she put AC in his place. She needed it and he, more than her, needed it. AC, oh, Alistair Connor is the perfect blend of domineering and gentle, he takes, but he gives so much in return. He has a dark and sad past and tries hard to get rid of it. A hot Highlander. Gabriela is the perfect daughter every mother (and father) wish to have. And poor, dear Ethan has started to find his way to my heart. Sophia recovers her memory and finds Alistair\u2019s secret wardrobe. Oooooh! I almost screamed when Ethan came back into the scene. At that point I was so sure he was out of his league with Sophia and had moved on with her \u201cgeneric\u201d. That was quite a twist. But many more were waiting for me. I will not spoil this review telling you about the many twists-&-turns this book has. I was left gaping, I cried with Sophia and Alistair, I pitied Ethan; I laughed with Gabriela; I screamed with Ethan\u2019s abhorrent parents and I marveled with the deep insights and comments Cristiane smears the book with. Just when I thought everything was going to be all right, a few of the secondary characters, who were just back-ground scenario, come to the fore and threaten the HEA Cristiane waved under my nose. There are so many special scenes that I cannot - will not - choose one, risking changing my mind and coming back to edit this review. The whole book is special. It\u2019s perfect, I must say. Cristiane does an excellent job and kept me turning the pages, craving for the next twist, for her next beautiful words, comments on daily life using classic literature, savoir-faire, psychological insights; the music, places, restaurants and the descriptions are absolutely flawless. This book is flawless. It has so much depth, plot is so rich and well planned; the physical & emotional content is thrilling that I felt it was over before it began. So I went back to the first page and - HAPPILY - started it all over again. Last, but not least, I cannot finish this review without saying that the sex scenes are hot and steamy but full of love and meaning, written in such a way that it shows off the true feelings of the partners involved (or not involved) and not only the physical aspects of them. Betrayed brought tears to my eyes and warmth to my heart. I highly recommend this book. You won\u2019t regret the time you\u2019ll spend with Cristiane\u2019s characters. ...more http://viv-omundoencantadodoslivros.b... \u00c9 verdade que demorei um pouco a terminar a leitura deste livro, mas desengane-se quem pensar que isso tem alguma coisa a ver com a falta de qualidade deste. Na verdade ainda estou um pouco abalada com a hist\u00f3ria que a autora apresentou e ainda me faltam as palavras para descrever tudo aquilo que senti ao ler esta obra. O livro mant\u00e9m-se muito semelhante ao anterior, com uma historia envolvente, muito romance e um toque de mist\u00e9rio que nos vai mantendo semp http://viv-omundoencantadodoslivros.b... \u00c9 verdade que demorei um pouco a terminar a leitura deste livro, mas desengane-se quem pensar que isso tem alguma coisa a ver com a falta de qualidade deste. Na verdade ainda estou um pouco abalada com a hist\u00f3ria que a autora apresentou e ainda me faltam as palavras para descrever tudo aquilo que senti ao ler esta obra. O livro mant\u00e9m-se muito semelhante ao anterior, com uma historia envolvente, muito romance e um toque de mist\u00e9rio que nos vai mantendo sempre curiosos, mas desta vez focando-se mais nos passados das personagens e naquilo que lhes aconteceu e que tanto os marcou ao longo da vida. Acredito que n\u00e3o tenha sido um livro f\u00e1cil de escrever, principalmente porque a autora vai fazendo saltos no tempo ao mesmo tempo que tamb\u00e9m desenvolve a hist\u00f3ria presente, mas tudo aquilo que escreveu foi minuciosamente pensado e escrito para que o leitor n\u00e3o se sinta confuso nem aborrecido com todos aqueles saltos. Confesso que me chateei v\u00e1rias vezes com o Ethan, aquele homem continua demasiado doente e a ultrapassar todos os limites, penso que ele chegou ao fundo do po\u00e7o e dificilmente ir\u00e1 conseguir dele. Apesar disso, acabou por se redimir um pouco mesmo no final\u2026mas parece que tudo se ir\u00e1 complicar ainda mais durante o terceiro e ultimo livro da trilogia. Quanto a Alistair Connor e Sophia\u2026que sortuda que aquela mulher \u00e9! A s\u00e9rio, para al\u00e9m de ter um homem lindo do seu lado, este tamb\u00e9m faz tudo para mudar e tornar-se numa pessoa melhor. A atitude de come\u00e7ar a ter aconselhamento psicol\u00f3gico foi t\u00e3o linda que s\u00f3 tive vontade de abra\u00e7ar aquele homem e dizer-lhe \u201cTu \u00e9s o meu her\u00f3i!\u201d, n\u00e3o tenho qualquer duvida em rela\u00e7\u00e3o aos sentimentos dele e Sophia fez a escolha certa ao ficar com ele. Outro momento marcante da trama foi quando ele soube acerca do passado da namorada e daquilo que ela tinha feito e mesmo assim estar sempre do seu lado, a dar-lhe apoio\u2026lindo, lindo, lindo! E claro que me estava a esquecer de outra cena, que apesar de n\u00e3o ter nada de dram\u00e1tico ou at\u00e9 mesmo importante, foi das mais comoventes de todo o livro. O momento em que Gabriela questiona se pode chamar Alistair de pai acabou por me deixar com os olhos cheios de \u00e1gua. Aquela menina, para al\u00e9m de ser retratada como um anjo, age de uma forma t\u00e3o doce que faz apaixonar qualquer um. Neste momento encontro-me muito ansiosa pela continua\u00e7\u00e3o. Apesar da forma como este terminou, a verdade \u00e9 que muito se encontra em movimento para arruinar a felicidade de Alistair e Sophia e estou um pouco receosa. Agora que Ethan me pareceu ter acalmado, o seu empregado parece querer agir por conta pr\u00f3pria pensando que o seu empregador ficar\u00e1 feliz com os resultados e depois h\u00e1 tamb\u00e9m a ex-cunhada de Alistair que est\u00e1 pronta para n\u00e3o o deixar em paz e usar a chantagem como meio para obter dinheiro\u2026. Cristiane n\u00e3o me fa\u00e7a esperar muito pelo terceiro livro, quero muito poder ler a continua\u00e7\u00e3o e conhecer a nova vida do nosso casal favorito. Tenho adorado esta hist\u00f3ria desde o inicio e acredito que o ultimo livro vai ser ainda melhor. Muitos parab\u00e9ns!! ...more TRUST: A New Beginning was a revelation to me in the sense that I didn't usually read these kind of stories. However, Cristiane Serruya is an excellent author, and you could tell that A New Beginning was something special.It starts with quite a bang and amazingly, keeps it up through out. That's not easy for a long book like TRUST. As with any 'middle story' the trick is, could it be better than the first and yet end in a way that would set things up for a tantalising finale (I have bought TRUST: TRUST: A New Beginning was a revelation to me in the sense that I didn't usually read these kind of stories. However, Cristiane Serruya is an excellent author, and you could tell that A New Beginning was something special.It starts with quite a bang and amazingly, keeps it up through out. That's not easy for a long book like TRUST. As with any 'middle story' the trick is, could it be better than the first and yet end in a way that would set things up for a tantalising finale (I have bought TRUST: Pandora's Box but am yet to review it) and I need to explain why I haven't gotten around to reading the final book yet. TRUST Betrayed is a complex, luxuriously layered and woven tale that is brilliantly written, but for me, I needed to re-read certain scenes just to make sure I had absorbed what had happened and take it all in. In that sense, it is the harder read than A New Beginning but is totally worth investing your time on this story. It's a lovely way Cristiane has with words - the date and time stamps add increased authenticity to the tale and whilst the main characters Sophia and Alistair remain as compelling as ever, it's the truly 'unique' Heather who stuck in my mind long after I had finished the story. I won't say whether Heather is good, bad or indifferent, but she adds her unique spin to the story. The story probably works best with all three read together, and so I'm looking forward to Pandora's Box. To date, there's only one trilogy of books that received five stars from me - Lord of the Rings. Now I know that's not an official trilogy, but the idea of rating them is the same...I rated Lotr 5 stars as a whole. Let's just say that Cristiane Serruya is a modern, intelligent writer who deserves the plaudits for her stories. Both TRUST books are excellent and I can heartily recommend them. In the sense of balance, is there any thing to fault? Perhaps yes, perhaps no, depending on your view. For me, Betrayed had so much going on, it deserved more than one read to really absorb it, but it is, as I say, worth your time. A light read this is not...prepare to give it the time and space it deserves, and I am sure that you too will enjoy this utterly thrilling story. As for book three, Pandora's Box is an awesome, intriguing title. Some books are worth waiting for, an just like Doctor Sleep by Stephen King, I waited some months before finally reading it..even for the master of horror, following up The Shining would be impossible, surely? Trust Betrayed is a lot like that....give some space between Book One and Book Three and I am sure you will love the ride! ...more Find this review and more at Lusty Penguin Reviews! Trust: Betrayed , the second installment of the Trust trilogy, is a compelling character-driven romance by Cristiane Serruya. Picking up where the first book ended, Alistair MacCraig and Sophia Leibowitz are dealing with the aftermath of Alistair\u2019s assault of Sophia, and Ethan Ashford is dealing with his breakup with Sophia. Ethan is not coping well and hires a woman with similar features to be with him as Sophia. At the same time, Alistair and So Find this review and more at Lusty Penguin Reviews! Trust: Betrayed , the second installment of the Trust trilogy, is a compelling character-driven romance by Cristiane Serruya. Picking up where the first book ended, Alistair MacCraig and Sophia Leibowitz are dealing with the aftermath of Alistair\u2019s assault of Sophia, and Ethan Ashford is dealing with his breakup with Sophia. Ethan is not coping well and hires a woman with similar features to be with him as Sophia. At the same time, Alistair and Sophia work to rebuild the trust that was destroyed during the assault. But, secrets are holding all three of these characters back: Alistair hides a violent sex life; Ethan hides being abused by his parents; and Sophia hides secrets about her first husband\u2019s kidnapping and murder. Sophia is the most sympathetic of the characters since her secrets are hidden from herself as well due to amnesia. Serruya does a masterful job of naturally propelling Alistair and Sophia into trying to build a solid and trust-filled relationship. Realistically, Alistair and Sophia are continually adapting to each other as the layers of their personalities and their secrets are slowly exposed. I enjoyed how Serruya uses flashbacks to provide glimpses into the lives that Alistair, Sophia, and Ethan are currently hiding from each other, which added depth to the characters. Ethan tries to worm his way back into Sophia\u2019s life, hoping that she will leave Alistair. Ethan has plenty of issues that cloud his judgment. There are times that I worried about Sophia having business relations with Ethan instead of severing all contact with him, but her compassion makes that impossible for her. Ethan\u2019s background explains a lot of his actions in the first book but does not exonerate what he did. One of my favorite parts of the story occurs when Sophia explains to Alistair the reasons why she stayed with him after the assault. Such sincerity allowed me to fully enjoy their beautiful happy-for-now ending. An intriguing romance and surprising plot twists make Trust: Betrayed a fascinating story that leaves the reader anxiously wanting the conclusion to the series. I received an eBook copy of the book for the purpose of an honest review. I was not compensated for this review, and all conclusions are my own responsibility. ...more Good gracious, this book sure is something. Betrayed has come a long way from the first book, Trust: A New Beginning. It starts right where it left off, confusing and bottled up with so many secrets I can't believe the author managed to keep them safe up until now. If I were the author, I would have let them all out from page one (yeah ... not good, right?). I had no idea what was happening as everything was going too fast with no hints whatsoever, so naturally, I was hooked. In Betrayed, the cha Good gracious, this book sure is something. Betrayed has come a long way from the first book, Trust: A New Beginning. It starts right where it left off, confusing and bottled up with so many secrets I can't believe the author managed to keep them safe up until now. If I were the author, I would have let them all out from page one (yeah ... not good, right?). I had no idea what was happening as everything was going too fast with no hints whatsoever, so naturally, I was hooked. In Betrayed, the characters really start to come out of the pages as they slowly peel layers of themselves and show their true forms. They are raw characters, broken and messed up, carrying a strong facade just to not appear weak. They are proud, but also filled with anger and a touch of craziness, making them sort of dangerous to the people they love. And yet, they are still beautiful, despite their many flaws. I loved their intellect and dominant personas, it often was an entertaining battle to see who had the final say in things. However, I sometimes did hate their masochistic ways. The setup of this book is great. It feels comfortable as it changes smoothly from the present to past life events of the characters. Getting to know younger versions of Alistair, Ethan and Sofia helped a lot to understand how and why they act the way they do, what led them to turn out to be so damaged and incapable of trusting, to fall in love. It also made me change my mind about some things. I liked that Betrayed is a gasp collector, there were many things that never crossed my mind until they did, and being surprised is one of the many things I love when reading a book. I'm excited to read the conclusion of this trilogy, I want to know more, I want to see what happens after that small happy ending of two of our characters, how long it lasts and what demons are going to be set lose to break havoc in their lives. I'm ready, bring it on. * Note : Thanks so much to Cristiane for providing me a copy in exchange for an honest review! You can also read it at The Reader and The Chef . ...more By: Cristiane Serruga Published By: Create Space Age Recommended: Adult Reviewed By: Arlena Dean Rating: 5 Series: Trust #2 Review: \"Trust: Betrayed\" by Cristiane Serruga was the second series: Trust #2 for this author that was a wonderful good read. This series continues from the 'filthy rich, beautiful tormented souls' of Sophia, Ethan and Alistair 'face and revisits their pain and learn to see themselves through forgiving eyes.' You will be taken from present, past and back and forth in this authors By: Cristiane Serruga Published By: Create Space Age Recommended: Adult Reviewed By: Arlena Dean Rating: 5 Series: Trust #2 Review: \"Trust: Betrayed\" by Cristiane Serruga was the second series: Trust #2 for this author that was a wonderful good read. This series continues from the 'filthy rich, beautiful tormented souls' of Sophia, Ethan and Alistair 'face and revisits their pain and learn to see themselves through forgiving eyes.' You will be taken from present, past and back and forth in this authors formatting writing style which was somewhat different from the first series. From the first series we are left hanging but in the second series be are \"able to better understand the emotions that drive these lovers together and apart as their motives become clear and personalities continue to expand and blossom' as the story continues. This series was written in third person narrative from the character's POV. Now, this will be a long read however, due to the way the author writes such a well written story...with the characters and yes, steamy hot sex(erotic), this novel will move very quickly and before you know it....you are turning pages and it's over. Be ready for many twist and turns because you will not know what is coming next. I was left saying omg... that was some good read with the story line being so rich and well plotted... the physical, emotional content being chilling and having a flawless descriptive content...only leading the reader to one conclusion: \"Trust: Betrayed\" was a excellent amazing read. In the end it only goes with the saying... \"that even in paradise, there are misgivings, cynicism and doubt. Except for all the wealth, glamor and privileges, the rich aren\u2019t so different from the rest of us romantics.\" I could not have said it any better. Well done to this author: Cristiane Serruga. ...more Trust: Betrayed is a steamy sequel, and I enjoyed it even more than the first book (and I loved the first one!). In this book we get to find out more about the past of Sophia, Alistair, and Ethan. It was nice to dive into the dark past of the three main characters. Finding out more about Ethan was one of my favorite parts. It really helps the reader understand why he is so emotionally scarred. Cristiane Serruya creates characters that her readers get attached to, and you can't help feeling like t Trust: Betrayed is a steamy sequel, and I enjoyed it even more than the first book (and I loved the first one!). In this book we get to find out more about the past of Sophia, Alistair, and Ethan. It was nice to dive into the dark past of the three main characters. Finding out more about Ethan was one of my favorite parts. It really helps the reader understand why he is so emotionally scarred. Cristiane Serruya creates characters that her readers get attached to, and you can't help feeling like these characters are part of your life. I can't enjoy a book unless I feel like I relate to the characters in some way, and even though the people in this book are exceedingly beautiful and wealthy, I was still able to feel connected to them. I think it's because the author makes her characters vulnerable, so anyone can relate to the perfectly flawed people in her books. There are also quite a few steamy scenes in the book! It's interesting though because there is actually some character develop within the sexual relationship of the two main characters. It was refreshing to read about the characters growing together in their relationship. I give this book five very bright stars! I know there is a third book in the works, and I'm dying to read it! I can't wait to find out what happens to Sophia and the gang next. ...more I am a bit speechless right now. I was waiting for an awesome installment and just dived right in. But Alistair just rocked my world and handed me my shredded heart on a silver platter. If I had known what I knew at that point beforehand I don\u2019t think I would have had the same reaction or connection to him. I have to say the same about Ethan and Sophia. It was a masterful strike leaving me so clueless and hanging from A New Beginning. I\u2019m loving that my heart is divided between Ethan and Alistai I am a bit speechless right now. I was waiting for an awesome installment and just dived right in. But Alistair just rocked my world and handed me my shredded heart on a silver platter. If I had known what I knew at that point beforehand I don\u2019t think I would have had the same reaction or connection to him. I have to say the same about Ethan and Sophia. It was a masterful strike leaving me so clueless and hanging from A New Beginning. I\u2019m loving that my heart is divided between Ethan and Alistair, as it is in a roller coaster of emotions, including angst, love, fear, pain, guilt, and a glimmer of hope, without a decent seat-belt. I\u2019m diving into Pandora\u2019s Box right now and I\u2019ll make a best review on it. I can\u2019t waste much time right now. ...more Cristiane Serruya confirmed with this second installment that she is a talented writer. Like the first, this second book has steamy hot contents. She finally reveals the main characters dark past which really helps the reader understand better the characters. The story stirred inside me a lot of contrasting emotions. We are left with a happy ending but we know that there is more to come because here and there the author sprinkled some hints of the storm that I think will come in the next book. I Cristiane Serruya confirmed with this second installment that she is a talented writer. Like the first, this second book has steamy hot contents. She finally reveals the main characters dark past which really helps the reader understand better the characters. The story stirred inside me a lot of contrasting emotions. We are left with a happy ending but we know that there is more to come because here and there the author sprinkled some hints of the storm that I think will come in the next book. I can\u2019t wait to know how the story will evolve. ...more<---C>Cristiane Serruya</---C>", "Title": "Trust: Betrayed"},
