{"Comments": "<+++>Ella Minnow Pea: A Progressively Lipogrammatic Epistolary Fable</+++>Rating: 4.9* of five This novel is about the unintended bad,<---M> and ridiculous</---M>, consequences of a very good idea. Nollop, an island off the American mainland, is a society rational and reasonable in its organization and actions. Its usage of the English language rests on the existence of the pangram, \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" The founder of Nollop invested the pangram with great significance. And now, in Ella's time, the letters of the pangram start falling off the founder's stat Rating: 4.9* of five This novel is about the unintended bad, and ridiculous, consequences of a very good idea. Nollop, an island off the American mainland, is a society rational and reasonable in its organization and actions. Its usage of the English language rests on the existence of the pangram, \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" The founder of Nollop invested the pangram with great significance. And now, in Ella's time, the letters of the pangram start falling off the founder's statue! And the leaders say, \"It's a sign! A sign! Whatever letters have fallen may no longer be used, in writing or in speech! An omen, a sign!\" And the people nodded, smiled, and did nothing to stop the madness. After all, it's the leaders' job to lead, right? And why would the leaders want bad things for us? After all, we all want the best and the brightest to flourish , right? Of course! Now, take your Soma. Dr.<---F> Orwell will be along soon</---F>. ...more Clever + Silly = waste of time and paper. A ridiculous book, masquerading as something intelligent and thought provoking. There are plenty of far better books that raise issues of totalitarianism, censorship versus free speech, superstition versus science, loyalty to friends and family versus loyalty to the state, the power of language etc in more enlightening, entertaining and less gimmicky ways. I realise my opinion is very much a minority one, so perhaps I'm overanalysing and taking it too ser Clever + Silly = waste of time and paper. A ridiculous book, masquerading as something intelligent and thought provoking. There are plenty of far better books that raise issues of totalitarianism, censorship versus free speech, superstition versus science, loyalty to friends and family versus loyalty to the state, the power of language etc in more enlightening, entertaining and less gimmicky ways. I realise my opinion is very much a minority one, so perhaps I'm overanalysing and taking it too seriously. *** SPOLIERS BELOW *** The book is set in the present day on a fictitious island, where they venerate Nollop, who devised the pangram \u201cThe quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog\u201d as the shortest sentence using all the letters of the alphabet without resorting to proper nouns and abbreviations. That irritated me from the start, as you can obviously reduce it by two letters just by changing it to \u201cA lazy dog\u201d. Anyway, this sentence is on Nollop\u2019s statue and when a letter falls off, the island council decree that it is a sign from Nollop that that letter cannot be used in speech or writing. We are expected to believe that a culture that was built on reverence for the written word destroys all its libraries overnight because one letter fell off a statue (what sort of important statue has letters glued on, rather than carved?). The punishments are harsh for individuals too \u2013 exile for a third offence. Of course, gradually other letters fall off, and they are banned too, hampering communication and creating a culture of fear. The story is told via correspondence between islanders: a contrivance to make it easier to tell and demonstrate the story and perhaps related to the fact this is the first novel of a playwright, although you sometimes have to glance ahead to see who a letter is from, as most of the characters write in a similar style. As Dunn conveniently bans rare letters first (Z, Q, then J), it\u2019s not till half way through that you really notice much difference in style, other than the odd awkward neologism, e.g. birth-anniversary. Later on, they are allowed to use letters that sound roughly similar, but only in correspondence, e.g. phewgitiph for fugitive. Presumably to add some much needed excitement to the story, an arbitrary deadline is set to devise an even shorter pangram and thus disprove the council\u2019s theory. Pretty pointless when there is at least one perfectly grammatical and shorter pangram that is common knowledge, so it was just a case of waiting for it to crop up, as it duly did. Their perseverance was impressive but ultimately irrelevant: it was the serendipitous wish of an alcoholic falling off the wagon that saved them. A weak love story is included, but that doesn\u2019t really add much excitement either. It's a totalitarian regime with a quasi theocratic motive rather than a socio-political-economic one. In fact we learn surprisingly little about the politics of Nollop. The other big subject that is raised but not addressed is race. In the introductory definitions, Dunn mentions \u201cblack and white citizens\u201d (it\u2019s 20 miles from S Carolina) and says it used to be called Utopiana, but I don\u2019t think race is ever mentioned again. I\u2019m not even sure which characters are which race, yet in a divided and disintegrating society, mightn\u2019t any racial tensions, however minor, be exacerbated? And even if not, people\u2019s colour might affect their feelings about whether or not to flee to the mainland. If he doesn\u2019t use it in the story, I don\u2019t know why he mentioned it at all. In the first twenty pages or so, Dunn shows off by littering the text with obscure words (such as detachation, multype writudes, empyrean, extirpated, lucubrating, anserous and aposiopesis). Thereafter, he seems to tire of that game and stick to mundane words, until the second half when the vocab finally becomes somewhat constrained and contorted due to the letters that have been prohibited. Given that the whole book is an exercise in literary exhibitionism, I found the misuse of apostrophes (e.g. Masons Guild, Parents and Teachers Association) and frequent omission of the definite article (e.g. \u201cgoing to town centre\u201d) inexcusable. Writing with limitations, whether that be a min or max word count, limited vocabulary or limited letters, using rhyme or whatever can be a worthwhile intellectual exercise for a writer, but that doesn\u2019t mean the result is worth publishing, otherwise we might as well read spelling tests for pleasure. One could try to interpret profound truths from this book, but frankly I think it would be a waste of time. Read Nineteen Eighty Four, The Trial, Fahrenheit 451, Oryx and Crake, Cat\u2019s Cradle, Riddley Walker, or The Handmaid\u2019s Tale instead etc. ...more *WARNING - This is MY FAVORITE book of all time, so there will be gooing, gushing and shameless pluggery! Welcome to Nollop , a quaint, autonomous island that lies quite near Charlotte, SC. Though the islanders shun modern technology, they take pride in their educated citizenry. Language is practically worshipped here, to the extent that the island is named after native son, Nevin Nollop , the author of the sentence typing students everywhere have come to know and dread: For 100 years, a cenotaph ho *WARNING - This is MY FAVORITE book of all time, so there will be gooing, gushing and shameless pluggery! Welcome to Nollop , a quaint, autonomous island that lies quite near Charlotte, SC. Though the islanders shun modern technology, they take pride in their educated citizenry. Language is practically worshipped here, to the extent that the island is named after native son, Nevin Nollop , the author of the sentence typing students everywhere have come to know and dread: For 100 years, a cenotaph honoring Nollop's remarkable vulpine-canine sentence has stood in the center of town. Then, one day, the Z tile falls to the ground and shatters. The town council, in their wisdom, decide that this is a sign from the Great Man himself, expressing a Nollopian desire that the letter Z be utterly excised - fully extirpated - absolutely heave ho'ed from all oral and written communication. In a letter to her cousin, Tassie, island dweller Ella notes that it is just a funny little letter , after all. It will hardly be missed. But Tassie disagrees. I am so fearful, Ella, as to where this all may lead. A silly little letter, to be sure, but I believe its theft represents something quite large and oh so frighteningly ominous. For it stands to rob us of the freedom to communicate without any manner of fetter or harness. So, what happens to someone who accidentally utters a dreaded Z word? As laid out by the Council, first offenders receive a public reprimand. For a second offense, violators may choose flogging or head-stocks. A third offense is punished by banishment from the island. Refusal to leave upon order of the Council will result in death. Death. Soon, libraries are shuttered and textbooks confiscated, lest no one read the offending letter. But for the most part, the people survive. There are a few problems; some islanders have more trouble adapting than others. And then another tile falls. And another. The personal letters exchanged between the residents are both hilarious and heartbreaking, as the writers attempt to cope with their dwindling alphabet: You were right about the fallout from this most absurd law. Not only does it cripple communication between islanders, it builds rock walls between hearts Slips of the tongue. Slips of the pen. All over town people hesitate, stammer, fumble for ways to express themselves, gripgrasping about for linguistic concoctions to serve the simplest of purposes. G go tonite at midnite. No more G. So long G. There is such a delicious contrast of horror and humor here. While I'm laughing my head off at the part where they loose the D and have to invent new days of the week . . . For Wednesday, please use Wetty I'm crying over Tassie's letter to Ella describing her mother's reaction to the ban: \"And yet, deep inside,\" she tells me, \"I am angry and rebellious.\" \"In my head,\" she tells me, \"I am reciting what I recall of my niece's last letter, allowing the illegal words to baste and crisp. I cook the words, serve them up, devour them greedily. In the sanctuary of my thoughts, I am a fearless renegade.\" She closes her letter with: Never stop writing. This is the third time I've read this book, and I'm always moved by the plight of the islanders, how much they love language and literature, and their utter sorrow at having all that they love stolen. If nothing else, the novel serves as a stunning reminder of how insidiously our rights can be stripped away from us. And it starts with something as simple as one silly letter. Now, perhaps I should mention how much I enjoyed using ALL THE LETTERS on my keyboard as I typed this review. I reveled in their shapes and truly, truly appreciated them. I hope to never take them for granted again. You'll take my letters when you pry them from my cold dead hands! ...more Original Review Georges Perec wrote a novel without using the letter \"e\" even once. Dunn works a similar gimmick by writing this epistolary novel about an island that bans the use of certain letters as these drop off, one by one, from the statute of the creator of the phrase, \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" \"Z\" is the first to go, then \"Q\", then \"J\". Things get really difficult, however, when \"D\" falls off. Speech, indeed communication of any kind, gets increasingly difficult as th Original Review Georges Perec wrote a novel without using the letter \"e\" even once. Dunn works a similar gimmick by writing this epistolary novel about an island that bans the use of certain letters as these drop off, one by one, from the statute of the creator of the phrase, \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" \"Z\" is the first to go, then \"Q\", then \"J\". Things get really difficult, however, when \"D\" falls off. Speech, indeed communication of any kind, gets increasingly difficult as the island's Council decrees that words that contain the offending letters must not, on pain of banishment or death, be written or even uttered. All the horrors of the police state are invoked as neighbours tell on neighbours, and a censor is appointed to read through all of the islanders' communication. Even religious fundamentalism gets a swipe since the Council treat Nollop, the phrase's creator, as--well--a Creator. What a charming little fable about the importance of free speech. Charming, and ultimately, irrelevant. This is not to say that I think that governments should be entitled to silence opponents by throwing them in jail or torturing them. But those are crude measures used nowadays only by political troglodytes. Welcome to the brave new world where opponents of free speech have learnt that the best way to undermine free speech is to render it worthless. When everything--including outright fabrication and lies--can be said, then nothing is said. Doublethink and duckspeak ain't nothing compared to that. In the name of the right to free speech, speech been rendered truly free, but only in the sense that it has no value anymore. Step right up, folks! Get your free speech here! That's right, folks, we're giving it away! Updates below sorted by date (newest first) : Update (14 February 2014) Lest anyone think that I'm for censorship, here's an example of censorship I depore: The successful right-wing bullying by the conservative Hindu group, Shiksha Bachao Andolan, of Penguin India leading to it pulling and pulping a scholarly work, Wendy Doniger's The Hindus: An Alternative History . Update (3 February 2014) Oooh, lookie, free speech in France : a recent obscene internet and text campaign ... persuaded hundreds of French parents that the government wanted primary school children to masturbate in class... many of yesterday\u2019s marchers ... swallow wholesale the distortions pedalled by Mr Soral and by Catholic extremists in recent months on \u201cla th\u00e9orie du genre\u201d \u2013 or gender theory. They demanded the withdrawal of a pilot programme in four areas of France which seeks to steer primary school boys and girls away from gender stereotypes. This apparently modest programme consists of trying to persuade girls that they can perfectly well drive tractors and boys that they can be ballet dancers if they want to. Harmless? Not as far as the marchers were concerned. It was this programme which was the subject of the obscene rumour spread by text and online a few days ago by Mr Soral\u2019s lieutenant, Farida Belghoul. Texts, tweets and emails persuaded hundreds of mostly black and Muslim parents that there would be masturbation and cross-dressing in primary schools. How long do you think these people who use free speech to incite hate and spread lies will allow speech to remain free if they win? Update (20 Dec 2013) Here's another random thought on unfettered free-speech. One foundational linch-pin in the pro-free speech platform is that truth will win out over lies. But, as with most ideas, this turns out to be more theory than fact. So, how does one deal with the fact that lies have a surprisingly tenacious ability to stay alive, especially in this age of the internet: \"27 Percent of Surgeons Still Think Obamacare Has Death Panels\" . Update (2 Oct 2013) The US government shutdown today is being done in opposition to Obamacare. Given the idea that Obama care is \"The Final Solution\" (see the image below), it is not surprising that purist politicians have a \"take no prisoners\" attitude. After all, one cannot compromise with the Devil. Proponents of free speech frequently ignore the impact of lies on passions and emotions, of the inability of people to process information rationally and logically. How many in the WEIRD countries are aware of the tragedy sweeping through Myanmar right now because radical Buddhists have been spreading lies about their fellow Muslims citizens ? People are being killed and burnt alive because of these lies. We celebrate the ability of the internet to topple Arab governments. Here's the flip side of that: The most sinister change in the way war is perceived springs from what two years ago seemed to be a wholly positive development. Satellite television and the use of information supplied by YouTube, bloggers and social media were portrayed as liberating innovations. The monopoly on information imposed by police states from Syria to Egypt and Bahrain to Tunisia had been broken. But as the course of the uprising in Syria has shown, satellite television and the internet also spread propaganda and hate. Fraudulent atrocity stories have an effect on a war: a Libyan militiaman who believes that the government soldiers he is fighting are under orders to rape his wife and daughters isn\u2019t going to take many prisoners. The situation has grown worse since Libya. The \u2018YouTube war\u2019 showing atrocities on both sides has outpaced the actual war in Syria as an influence on both rebels and government supporters. Satellite channels such as al-Jazeera depend on these propaganda clips. Many of the atrocities are real. Rebels can see film of mass graves of people killed by poison gas or children writhing in pain from napalm burns. In government-held parts of Damascus people don\u2019t go out much in the evening but sit at home watching footage of captured government soldiers being decapitated or Christian priests and Alawite soldiers having their throats cut. Much of this footage is real \u2013 but not all. A correspondent in south-east Turkey recently visited a Syrian refugee camp where he found ten-year-old children watching a YouTube clip of two men being executed with a chainsaw. The commentary claimed that the victims were Syrian Sunnis and the killers were Alawites: in fact the film was from Mexico and the murders had been carried out by a drug lord to intimidate his rivals. The diet of snuff movies helps explain the ferocity of the conflict in Syria and the degree of hatred and terror on both sides. It also explains why the two sides find it so difficult to talk to each other. How would Union soldiers in the American Civil War have reacted if they had repeatedly watched film of a Confederate commander cutting open the body of a dead private in the Union army and eating his heart? Too much of the debate about free speech is unnuanced and hysterical, with no considered discussion being given to its darker sides. The slippery slope argument is pulled out again and again in support of rampant, unfettered free speech. Supporters of unfettered free speech seem unwilling to grapple with or even admit its darker, less savoury consequences, seemingly preferring instead to pretend that these don't exist. The tragic consequences of a dictatorship which censures and censors have been well and fully ventilated. It might help to remember that as with all things in life, humans are more than capable of using ANY tool for both good AND ill. ...more Ella Minnow Pea (LMNOP) is a broad satire, which is conspicuous in loudly broadcasting its themes of the consequences of unfettered political power dictated to a country (fascism) with its resulting creeping loss of rights which become the new normal, as well as neighbourly reporting and ridiculously contrived punishable offences to incite fear and maintain absolute power. But once you have that nicely established, you can get down to the idiosyncratic local tale on the island of Nollop, named a Ella Minnow Pea (LMNOP) is a broad satire, which is conspicuous in loudly broadcasting its themes of the consequences of unfettered political power dictated to a country (fascism) with its resulting creeping loss of rights which become the new normal, as well as neighbourly reporting and ridiculously contrived punishable offences to incite fear and maintain absolute power. But once you have that nicely established, you can get down to the idiosyncratic local tale on the island of Nollop, named after the esteemed author of the pangram, \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" The citizens are noteworthy due to their relative isolation of a century from America, after settling with their leader Nollop. In fact, those who live \"stateside\" can find these citizens \"difficult to understand\". As a reader we are privy to correspondence between its people, in the form of letters, technology and telephones unavailable to them. A crisis of great magnitude is conceived by the island council when a tile bearing the letter \"Z\" falls from the celebrated sentence beneath the effigy of Nevin Nollop. It will not repaired because this must be a \"terrestrial manifestation\". Rather, \"Z\" will be excised from the vocabulary. The eloquent and verbose Nollopians, whose vocabulary is reminiscent of that of a well-educated, upper class and perhaps scholarly individual from the early 1900s, don't take this well. They are astounded when all the bees are removed from the island and the apiary owner charged with violations, for describing the sound they make! The fulsome language of Ella, writing to her cousin Tassie about this, includes \"words\" familiar only within their island culture. \"For the bees speak the offending letter as their wont. They sing it into the hills, our ears ringing with its scissoresonance.\" Of course more and more tiles fall, making conversation and writing even more difficult. The library is shut down, denuded of books which don't comply. Town and village people are banished after three violations; the councillors now call themselves \"The Pentapriests\" in respect of the lost letters. With the absence of \"C\" and \"K\", one character writes to another in thanks- appreciation- for the pullet soup, use of synonyms being a matter of survival and saviour of property which is being absconded by the bureaucrats for themselves. Help arrives and a solution is found but not before the struggle to communicate becomes terribly arduous -and hilariously phonetic- there being only scant letters to work with. \"...ewe are propaplee reating mie last letter to ewe. It is simplee too tiring to write. To sae watt I most sae in langwage one mae onterstant. I am so sorree. Alwaes, Ella\". Ella Minnow Pea, A Novel in Letters by <---A>Mark Dunn</---A> was written in 2001 and has a timeless appeal. It is taught in schools; there are Sparks notes on the Internet . It is broad satire woven with the intricate detail of wordsmithery (that's a neologism, a made up word and a portmanteau word: hybrid of two). The simple tale is deceivingly complex, its wordplay an art in itself. And the result is quaint, goofy and unlike anything else I have ever read. I did experience intimations of \"Gulliver's Travels\", lurking in the shadows. How could it not?!! Island, politics, strange language and Yahoos... But Ella Minnow Pea is much more fun. **Autocorrect was a real PAIN in the keister with this review. You think? Hahaha! ...more I found this book at the Wilderness Library and very nearly didn't buy it. Just looking at the title, the words didn't exactly compute and I thought, \"hmmm, this book seems kind of silly.\" Then I read \"A Novel in Letters\" and my shameless snoop side came out. I love, love, love reading books that are comprised of letters, I feel like I'm really snooping in someone's mail or diaries, and it makes it so interesting. So I picked up Ella and on my way to the car, said the title out loud and the ligh I found this book at the Wilderness Library and very nearly didn't buy it. Just looking at the title, the words didn't exactly compute and I thought, \"hmmm, this book seems kind of silly.\" Then I read \"A Novel in Letters\" and my shameless snoop side came out. I love, love, love reading books that are comprised of letters, I feel like I'm really snooping in someone's mail or diaries, and it makes it so interesting. So I picked up Ella and on my way to the car, said the title out loud and the light went on. The story is one of letters, literally, written in letters between various people. The fictional town of Nollop is facing a crisis: Named after Nevin Nollop who famously coined the phrase \"The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog\", a statue to its founder in town is falling to pieces. Specifically, letters on tiles comprising the famous sentence are falling off the statue, and the town council has taken that as a sign. The citizenry is officially banned from using any letter which falls off the sign. Failure to restrict use of those letters results first in lashing, and then in banishment from the island. They may neither speak nor write the offending letters. It starts out fairly simply, with the letter Z, but eventually more and more letters drop and it becomes harder and harder to write and speak. I won't reveal how it is resolved, but it was an excellent story and one that I only wish I had had the cleverness to invent myself. It's a fairly short book as well, so you could read it pretty quickly if you wanted to! Fun and funny, definitely a book for people who love words. Take up the town's challenge yourself and see if you can come up with a sentence...? ...more Ella Minnow Pea is a girl who lives on a small island off the coast of South Carolina. This nation state, named Nollop after its founder, seems idyllic. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, tiles begin to tumble from Nollop's monument, and the Council interprets these as (pardon the pun) letters from heaven. But the island paradise soon degenerates into a totalitarian regime as hellish as anything conceived by George Orwell. This, as other reviewers have noted, is a parable about the exercise of hum Ella Minnow Pea is a girl who lives on a small island off the coast of South Carolina. This nation state, named Nollop after its founder, seems idyllic. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, tiles begin to tumble from Nollop's monument, and the Council interprets these as (pardon the pun) letters from heaven. But the island paradise soon degenerates into a totalitarian regime as hellish as anything conceived by George Orwell. This, as other reviewers have noted, is a parable about the exercise of human rights and especially free speech. But it's also a celebration of language, full of neologisms, alternate spellings, unexpected twists, quirky characters and just plain whimsy. ...more Dunn\u2019s first novel is a book of letters \u2013 in more senses than one. It is a fairly traditional epistolary, yes, but it also toys with the letters of the alphabet: the wordy citizens of the island nation of Nollop are zealously engaged in creating pangrams (pithy sentences that contain each letter of the alphabet) in tribute to their founder Nevin Nollop, who authored \u201cThe quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog,\u201d the original pangram displayed in ceramic tiles on his statue in the public square. Dunn\u2019s first novel is a book of letters \u2013 in more senses than one. It is a fairly traditional epistolary, yes, but it also toys with the letters of the alphabet: the wordy citizens of the island nation of Nollop are zealously engaged in creating pangrams (pithy sentences that contain each letter of the alphabet) in tribute to their founder Nevin Nollop, who authored \u201cThe quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog,\u201d the original pangram displayed in ceramic tiles on his statue in the public square. But things go awry when particular letters start falling off the monument. A superstitious lot, the Nollop Council decide that the fallen letters can no longer be used, and so the characters\u2019 missives become increasingly constrained as they have to avoid certain vowels and consonants. Their writing grows exponentially avant-garde and hilarious as they resort to circumlocutions, phonetic spellings, and not-quite-right synonyms \u2013 as is the case with Christian B\u00f6k\u2019s poetry collection of univocal lipograms, Eunoia (which I reviewed here ), extreme creativity often arises out of a tough linguistic stricture. Before long only L, M, N, O, and P can be used \u2013 which, handily, still allows for an approximation of the title character\u2019s name, but offers very few other coherent language options. Like Ibid and Eunoia , Ella Minnow Pea is a madcap journey through the English language and its use in literature: enjoy the ride. ...more This book has been on my \u201cto read\u201d list for a long time. It sounded interesting: a book in which the characters revere language and the alphabet, and when letters fall from the statue that celebrates their culture, they are also dropped from the novel. I\u2019m pleased to report, first of all, that this book is wholesome, despite being on the national market and not just the LDS one (so many books I\u2019ve picked up this year I\u2019ve had to return to the library, unread). And this book is good to boot. It\u2019s l This book has been on my \u201cto read\u201d list for a long time. It sounded interesting: a book in which the characters revere language and the alphabet, and when letters fall from the statue that celebrates their culture, they are also dropped from the novel. I\u2019m pleased to report, first of all, that this book is wholesome, despite being on the national market and not just the LDS one (so many books I\u2019ve picked up this year I\u2019ve had to return to the library, unread). And this book is good to boot. It\u2019s like push-ups for your brain. At first, the work-out was to make sense of the vocabulary-enfused text; then, as the letters drop and ideas are conveyed more creatively (even through the use of phonetic near-matches \u2014 e.g. \u201cworriet\u201d instead of \u201cworried\u201d), I felt a bit like I was playing MadGab. The novel is a quick read (many of the 208 pages were actually almost entirely blank) and an interesting story, as well. It\u2019s amazing to me how Dunn was able to work so much drama in the story using such limited literary devices (even the novel form \u2014 which is told via letters to and from characters in the book \u2014 is somewhat stagnating, not to mention the aforementioned rules about the alphabet letters\u2019 slow elimination). Dunn\u2019s opening pangram (which is actually used to define \u201cpangram\u201d) aptly describes the book: \u201ca quirky novel with pages of zany, jumbled lexicon\u201d \u2014 a treat to read. ...more An inventive epistolary and lipogrammatic novel mixing the prisoner\u2019s constraint, pangrams, and neologisms to form an Oulipian feast. Perhaps a little Oulipo-lite? Perhaps. But the prose is impressive and despite the partial cheat towards the end (using phonetic sounds for words) the lipogram is successful and the plot something of a statement about censorship and the privilege we have in the West to use our language to express whatever we wish (and abuse this on a word-by-word basis). As someon An inventive epistolary and lipogrammatic novel mixing the prisoner\u2019s constraint, pangrams, and neologisms to form an Oulipian feast. Perhaps a little Oulipo-lite? Perhaps. But the prose is impressive and despite the partial cheat towards the end (using phonetic sounds for words) the lipogram is successful and the plot something of a statement about censorship and the privilege we have in the West to use our language to express whatever we wish (and abuse this on a word-by-word basis). As someone who has attempted an alphabetical lipogram (running from A-Z and back again and published here ), Dunn\u2019s feat deserves our respect and enthusiastic handclaps. ...more I loved this perky, word-exacting fable; it was a quick read--a touch zany at times but thoroughly enjoyable. And yes, I did intentionally use all the letters of the alphabet in the first sentence. It is, admittedly, harder than it seems. The book is in the form of letters written among the inhabitants of a small island nation who prize, above all, their literary and vocabulary skills. When letters begin to fall from the city's motto (The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog), the city council I loved this perky, word-exacting fable; it was a quick read--a touch zany at times but thoroughly enjoyable. And yes, I did intentionally use all the letters of the alphabet in the first sentence. It is, admittedly, harder than it seems. The book is in the form of letters written among the inhabitants of a small island nation who prize, above all, their literary and vocabulary skills. When letters begin to fall from the city's motto (The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog), the city council takes it as a divine message to remove those letters from the language. The story continues as additional letters fall. The few residents fight to restore the lost letters to the alphabet while trying to maintain their frequent letters with increasingly fewer letters from with to draw. I didn't expect to like it as much as I did but I found myself quite taken with the story. Despite being crunched for shelf space, this book is one I'll be adding to my personal library; the copy I read will sadly have to be returned to the public library. ...more Ella Minnow Pea starts as a cute, light hearted book about a fictional country that idolizes Nevin Nollop, the man who discovered the pangram \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dogs.\" Written in the form of letters between townsfolk, the tale turns to fear as letters from Nollop's famous line begin falling off a statue erected to his honor. The Island Council decrees it is the will of Nollop (dead for nearly a century) for his people to no longer use those letters. Any one found using them Ella Minnow Pea starts as a cute, light hearted book about a fictional country that idolizes Nevin Nollop, the man who discovered the pangram \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dogs.\" Written in the form of letters between townsfolk, the tale turns to fear as letters from Nollop's famous line begin falling off a statue erected to his honor. The Island Council decrees it is the will of Nollop (dead for nearly a century) for his people to no longer use those letters. Any one found using them would be punished up to exile. This book is very much about tyranny and how people react to it. It starts small, with a few lesser utilized letters being banned. But as more letters are lost, neighbor turns upon neighbor using the new edicts as a way to settle old scores. What started as a simple inconvenience slowly creeps into a dystopian nightmare as days and months are renamed. The once literate population of the island is reduced to an ever shrinking group terrified to speak freely else they use a forbidden letter. Religious fanaticism destroys all it touches, undermining the very language Nollop was acclaimed to have loved. Dunn does a wonderful job playing into this conceit, slowly subtracting the letters from the letters he has the characters write. We get to know the characters through their missives and connect with them. We see their hopes, joys, and despairs play out in the nightmarish atmosphere they find themselves in. All in all it is a quick, playful read that offers a satirical take on creeping religious totalitarianism. ...more Indeed this was fast, interesting read but from time to time extremely challenging. Namely my level of English is not on such a high level to be able to fully absorb what this lovely novel offers. There were so many words I never heard before so in spite the fact I could catch the context I wanted to know their exact meaning. Therefore I had to have dictionary beside me (also English-English one). But in spite \"hard physical\" work this read was really enjoyable! The idea is incredibly original an Indeed this was fast, interesting read but from time to time extremely challenging. Namely my level of English is not on such a high level to be able to fully absorb what this lovely novel offers. There were so many words I never heard before so in spite the fact I could catch the context I wanted to know their exact meaning. Therefore I had to have dictionary beside me (also English-English one). But in spite \"hard physical\" work this read was really enjoyable! The idea is incredibly original and truth, English is not my mother tongue but I do believe Mr. Dunn has done it fantastically well. It's a pure delicacy for all linguistic geeks (which I am but in my mother tongue). What I especially like about this book was one augmented but great image of totalitarian regimes. The initial spot of bother was something so insane that it's quite impossible to comprehend but everything from that point was absolutely realistic and absolutely terrifying. There were no freedom of speech, your first neighbor is quite probably the stoolpigeon, government was controlling everything and government is full of power-thirsty schizophrenics (as usual)... Probably that's why I didn't find this book as funny as many did. It didn't make me laugh but then I don't think that was its intention after all. Highly recommending. ...more This delightful little epistolary novel passed away a few hours in the train very pleasantly indeed. But it should not be under-estimated merely because it is short, fun and easy to read. It consists of the correspondence between various members of a community that live on a fictional island off the south west coast of the USA. Their culture is one of letters, of written correspondence, in a somewhat anachronistic formal style that takes delight in the polysyllabic. Imagine therefore their disma This delightful little epistolary novel passed away a few hours in the train very pleasantly indeed. But it should not be under-estimated merely because it is short, fun and easy to read. It consists of the correspondence between various members of a community that live on a fictional island off the south west coast of the USA. Their culture is one of letters, of written correspondence, in a somewhat anachronistic formal style that takes delight in the polysyllabic. Imagine therefore their dismay when individual letters begin to fall from the famous pangram that was (supposedly) coined by their founding father Nevin Nollop: The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog. The powers that be decide that Nollop is speaking to them from beyond the grave, and stipulates that these graphemes are now forbidden. The novel's constituent correspondence is subject to the same rigorous deconstruction of language, and the inventiveness involved in avoiding words that contain the outlawed alphabet is wondrous to see. Behind and beyond the fun there are some serious themes: totalitarianism, community, destruction of language, religious thinking and creation of orthodoxy, which are packed into a playful narrative with a gutsy and resourceful main character. Great fun! ...more It wasn't until I told someone, out loud, what I was reading that I realized the title, Ella Minnow Pea, really sounded like the \"LMNOP\" of the alphabet song. Now, of course, I have no idea how I missed it. Ella Minnow Pea. LMNOP. Obvious. So obvious I wonder what else I missed. Such a clever title. Such a clever book. Ella Minnow Pea resides on the fictional island of Nallop, off the South Carolina shore, where all the residents are brought up in reverence of syntax and language. The founder and It wasn't until I told someone, out loud, what I was reading that I realized the title, Ella Minnow Pea, really sounded like the \"LMNOP\" of the alphabet song. Now, of course, I have no idea how I missed it. Ella Minnow Pea. LMNOP. Obvious. So obvious I wonder what else I missed. Such a clever title. Such a clever book. Ella Minnow Pea resides on the fictional island of Nallop, off the South Carolina shore, where all the residents are brought up in reverence of syntax and language. The founder and most celebrated resident, Nevin Nollop, was the author of the well known keyboard practice sentence, \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" When the letter tiles creating this celebrated sentence beneath his statue begin to fall off, the self-righteous and clearly brainless members of the governing council take it as a sign that Nollop, himself, wants the usage of these letters to terminate. As a result, they ban all future use of the fallen letters. First \"z\" gets the ax, followed by \"q\" and \"k\". The residents of the island face severe and, frankly, far fetched punishment if the banned letters are used in writing, speech or music. As the book is written through letters between friends and family members within the community, the reader witnesses first hand the difficulties in communicating without all of our precious 26 letters. Yes, we need our \"z\" and our \"k\"s, uncommon as they may seem. Life without the letter \"d\" is no life at all. End scene. In spite of all of the author's cleverness, which is bountiful, I found this novel lacking. The author, Mark Dunn, brilliantly uses the English language in its most advanced form. While I'm sure I'm exaggerating, (but since this entire book is a satire, I feel it's appropriate here) I think at least 10% of the words throughout the book were words I had never seen nor heard before. Dunn either has an intimate knowledge of English vocabulary or an extremely thick thesaurus at his disposal. For language lovers, I've no doubt this book would be a delight. For story, character, plot and reality lovers, however, the story isn't quite as accomplished. The author's not very subtle dig at organized religion as a vehicle for the blindly obedient to carry out the wishes of non-existent tyrannical beings got on my nerves. Likewise, the characters were so poorly developed that I was never quite sure who the letters were being written by or to whom they were being sent. As their relationships with each other was never the point of the book, however, I let it slide. Ultimately, this is a show-off book about language but not one that really entertains or matters, because the story isn't funny, romantic, endearing, sad or slightly plausible. Just very, very clever. ...more At some point (in my review, or the comments, or maybe in the comments on MJ Nicholls review) I refer to Foer's new book as an attempt to mass market the avant-garde. I mean some people hate this, I think these are the same people that are annoyed about the \"twilight gets teenagers to read argument.\" Well I for one am a big fan of all of the ways that we are attempting to expand people's minds. I don't think people who are seriously literary should forgo the avant-garde or read twilight in place At some point (in my review, or the comments, or maybe in the comments on MJ Nicholls review) I refer to Foer's new book as an attempt to mass market the avant-garde. I mean some people hate this, I think these are the same people that are annoyed about the \"twilight gets teenagers to read argument.\" Well I for one am a big fan of all of the ways that we are attempting to expand people's minds. I don't think people who are seriously literary should forgo the avant-garde or read twilight in place of better literature, but I do think interspersing them with other books is reasonable and they help those people who haven't realized books are fun to develop their literary snob status. My point being there are reasons all books exist even the twincest books. I bring this up because I think this is another attempt to popularize an avant-garde idea. This is kind of like oulipo for the masses. It even goes to the trouble to define lipogram at the beginning (along with epistolary and pangram, the first another nonstandard literary format, the second a kind of elitist literary obsession). The novel is able to use these concepts without alienating the traditional reader because everything in the novel is heavily explained. You know why the letters are being removed and why that's a problem. I haven't read Perec, but I assume his is not quite his clear simply because the first section in this book uses all letters and specifies what will be removed when, including specific rules (no replacing with asterisks). The other thing that makes this novel a bit easier to read than some of the traditional avant-garde (not all christie malry is very much in this vein) is that it takes a position on the state of the world today. The book reads as an interesting commentary on politics and religion. How long will we let people control us, how many rules will we pretend to be okay with before we are forced to change something? Who are these gods these rulers that we submit to? And those of us who submit who are we? This was a book that I was going to read, but not ever really going to read if you know what I mean. But I forgot my book at home yesterday and needed something to read, since super discounts had just ended I'd bought everything I really wanted to read from the pile and this was the first book I could think of that I wanted to read. I'm really glad I forgot my book. ...more This book blew my mind. I had not expected what I got. The writing first of all is amazing, especially as it gets more challenging as the story progresses. The story itself touches so many aspects that it is unbelievable that this book is so short. The format of only including letters is perfect, as it shows the effect of the changes and the struggles and hardship of the people a lot better than any other form of narration could. This is a fast read that will impress you and leave you thinking long This book blew my mind. I had not expected what I got. The writing first of all is amazing, especially as it gets more challenging as the story progresses. The story itself touches so many aspects that it is unbelievable that this book is so short. The format of only including letters is perfect, as it shows the effect of the changes and the struggles and hardship of the people a lot better than any other form of narration could. This is a fast read that will impress you and leave you thinking long after you finished it. ...more My god.... this is what I hate about 'hype.' I was so looking forward to reading this book... I thought 'what a cute idea!' (my voice actually squealed a bit) and 'what a great cover!' and----- I'm an idiot. I should know enough by now to not let my hopes get so high. Stupid...stupid... stooopid. Okay, it's a cool idea. Really. The whole revering the language but also revering a man who came up with a sentence that doesn't really revere the language because it's celebrating creating a pangram. Ya My god.... this is what I hate about 'hype.' I was so looking forward to reading this book... I thought 'what a cute idea!' (my voice actually squealed a bit) and 'what a great cover!' and----- I'm an idiot. I should know enough by now to not let my hopes get so high. Stupid...stupid... stooopid. Okay, it's a cool idea. Really. The whole revering the language but also revering a man who came up with a sentence that doesn't really revere the language because it's celebrating creating a pangram. Yadda yadda yadda... I thought it would be cute to read these exchanges and think how clever it all is. Problem is that it was TOO clever... too much . I didn't fall for it. I skimmed, I yawned, I hoped at some point that all the letters would just fall off the damn board and they'd shut the hell up already. Okay, I chuckled at this one line: \"She shoot loog smashing 4 the phooneral.' (She should look smashing for the funeral.)But I plead no sleep and little light to read by. Maybe you'd be into this, maybe you'd get the schtick and enjoy it. Good for you. I, on the other hand, am back to being my bitchy cautious self. :( ...more i have scanned other reviews, and most of what other people said - \"clever\" \"fun\" \"a puzzle\" - certainly applies. and perhaps i should scan all the reviews, but i am a little surprised that no one on that first page seems to mention the book being a very succinct little allegory illustrating quite tidily the dangers of creeping fascism. anyway, i really enjoyed it. unlike others, i was not irked by the sudden introduction of phoneme substitution at the end of the book - it seemed only reasonable i have scanned other reviews, and most of what other people said - \"clever\" \"fun\" \"a puzzle\" - certainly applies. and perhaps i should scan all the reviews, but i am a little surprised that no one on that first page seems to mention the book being a very succinct little allegory illustrating quite tidily the dangers of creeping fascism. anyway, i really enjoyed it. unlike others, i was not irked by the sudden introduction of phoneme substitution at the end of the book - it seemed only reasonable that at some point even the council would recognize that communally meaningful communication was virtually impossible without them. what surprised me was what an intense relief it was to get to the letter from ella offering the 32-letter sentence - the one written properly! \"pack my box with five dozen liquor jugs!\" ...more 2 stars - Meh. Just ok. The concept of this novel, a progressively lipogrammatic epistolary fable, is very creative and it had to be incredibly tedious and challenging for the author to write. Unfortunately, the execution of the concept resulted in an implausible and rather dull story. On the other hand, it's worth picking up if interested as it is an extremely fast read being short and epistolary - you can read the whole book in less than 2 hours. ------------------------------------------- Favor 2 stars - Meh. Just ok. The concept of this novel, a progressively lipogrammatic epistolary fable, is very creative and it had to be incredibly tedious and challenging for the author to write. Unfortunately, the execution of the concept resulted in an implausible and rather dull story. On the other hand, it's worth picking up if interested as it is an extremely fast read being short and epistolary - you can read the whole book in less than 2 hours. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: N/A. First Sentence: Dear Cousin Tassie, Thank you for the lovely postcards. ...more Every once in a while, a broad, far-reaching concept can be scaled down and illustrated beautifully through simple, subtle story-telling as in parables and fables. This is one such example. There's no real need to try to tell anyone the \"story\" behind this self-proclaimed \"novel of letters\". If you're a reader...just dive in and enjoy. It's fresh, clever, and fun. It's like reading a book and playing Scrabble at the same time...skimming a newspaper while doing a crossword puzzle. It's a wild, bri Every once in a while, a broad, far-reaching concept can be scaled down and illustrated beautifully through simple, subtle story-telling as in parables and fables. This is one such example. There's no real need to try to tell anyone the \"story\" behind this self-proclaimed \"novel of letters\". If you're a reader...just dive in and enjoy. It's fresh, clever, and fun. It's like reading a book and playing Scrabble at the same time...skimming a newspaper while doing a crossword puzzle. It's a wild, brilliant ride, and I loved it. ...more Book Number Two in the \"Husband-and-Wife\" (aka Tyler-and-Kate) Book Club! ;-> Hugely successful! We both loved it. Wonderfully creative. Love-letters to the English language and the human spirit, and also a cautionary tale on the dangers of wearing blinders in politics and religion. A thoughtful tale, and a joy to read! Highly recommended to all my friends who love language and letters (both epistolary and alphabetical!) Ella Minnow Pea is, obviously, about censorship. It's also about mob mentality, about standing up for what's right before events get out of hand, about the corrupting nature of power, and about religious fundamentalism. And it's about word puzzles. Ella Minnow Pea is mostly written as a lipogram, entirely avoiding using one (and later, more than one) letter of the alphabet. It's also epistolary, written as a series of letters. Quite a lot to put on one small book. Does it hold up? For the most p Ella Minnow Pea is, obviously, about censorship. It's also about mob mentality, about standing up for what's right before events get out of hand, about the corrupting nature of power, and about religious fundamentalism. And it's about word puzzles. Ella Minnow Pea is mostly written as a lipogram, entirely avoiding using one (and later, more than one) letter of the alphabet. It's also epistolary, written as a series of letters. Quite a lot to put on one small book. Does it hold up? For the most part. Dunn is preaching to the choir here, and he knows it. Anyone willing to read a lipogrammatic book isn't going to be in favor of strict censorship. And the censors here look so silly, even from the outset, that it's impossible to do anything but find them and the people who follow them foolish. Which is probably why it's marketed as a fable. And there's something to be said for the sheer discipline in writing lipogrammatically, especially when you're using such a restricted style of writing to comment on restricting writing. The story moves along quickly, and there's a certain amount of anticipation in seeing how Dunn and his characters will handle the next lost letter. That said, the characters tend to all sound alike, so that I would often have to read how the letter I was reading was signed before I could be sure of who the speaker was. And it really can be quite silly. It's hardly likely to challenge anyone's point of view on censorship, even if it will strike a chord with many readers who already feel strongly about censorship. But silly as it is, the way that the citizens of Nollop react to the increasingly harsh rules feels true to life. I do admire Dunn's persistence in writing so much lipogrammatically. Much of the lipogrammatic sections read naturally, though there are a few odd phrases (birth anniversary instead of birthday) and made up words (Satto-gatto instead of Saturday). Maybe that isn't playing fair with a lipogram, but it doesn't bother me. It's definitely cheating when he starts using alternate, phonetic spellings later on, which became incredibly difficult to read. It's a silly book with a serious point, but one that I doubt will do much convincing. Probably it's main value is in its wordplay. Still, mostly fun to read. ...more I love-love-LOVE this tongue-n-cheek, epistolary, cautionary, crazy-brilliant lipogram-tale! Oh the madness!!! Oh the marauding wordy-nerdy-fun!!!! Poke-in-the-eye truths encompassing the dangers of complacency and passivity and the unquestioning blinding-blinders of status quo en masse!!! This is my third adventure with Ella Minnow Pea , and it just keeps getting better. My first foray was years ago, back in North Carolina. A book club selection that kicked-off quite a firestorm discussion; an e I love-love-LOVE this tongue-n-cheek, epistolary, cautionary, crazy-brilliant lipogram-tale! Oh the madness!!! Oh the marauding wordy-nerdy-fun!!!! Poke-in-the-eye truths encompassing the dangers of complacency and passivity and the unquestioning blinding-blinders of status quo en masse!!! This is my third adventure with Ella Minnow Pea , and it just keeps getting better. My first foray was years ago, back in North Carolina. A book club selection that kicked-off quite a firestorm discussion; an either love or hate sort of read. As f*r this w*rdy-nerd, it's a FIVE-STAR-L*VE-LETTER, B*DACI*US great read!! ...more The inner linguist in me LOVED this book! I thought it was incredibly clever and creative. I would only recommend this to people who are interested in language use and who are able to read this with access to a dictionary as it is stuffed with words I didn't know! I decided to read this book after my friend Emma said it was one of the most creative books she's ever read. I admit, this one was certainly refreshing. Told in the epistolary style, Ella Minnow Pea follows the trials of the island residents of Nollop as they struggle to maintain control of their language as more and more letters fall into disuse. The reader gets to know the characters through the notes they write to each other. When members of the alphabet start being banned across the island, i I decided to read this book after my friend Emma said it was one of the most creative books she's ever read. I admit, this one was certainly refreshing. Told in the epistolary style, Ella Minnow Pea follows the trials of the island residents of Nollop as they struggle to maintain control of their language as more and more letters fall into disuse. The reader gets to know the characters through the notes they write to each other. When members of the alphabet start being banned across the island, it becomes more difficult for the residents to communicate without using the forbidden letters. As people fall victim to banned-letter use, they are punished and eventually banished from the island. The only thing that can save them is the creation of a new pangram to replace \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" It is up to Ella Minnow Pea, one of the few remaining island habitants, to revive the entire alphabet so that the banished may return to Nollop and have free use of all 26 letters again. I found the book to be a quick, entertaining read. I love Dunn's ingenious renaming of the days of the week and months in the year as replacements for their proper names which become unspeakable/unwritable due to the presence of banned letters (e.g., Thursday becomes Thirby). As more letters fell into disuse as the novel progressed, it got slightly difficult to read the correspondence between the characters as quickly as in the beginning, because most of the words were being spelled differently (phonetically) so as to avoid using forbidden letters. But I was able to decipher the notes nonetheless. The ending of the book was a big \"how did I not see that?\" moment. I quickly raced back several pages to look for the clues that I missed. I literally said, \"That's so clever!\" when I got to the end of the book. More than just a delightful and comic tale about the alphabet, Dunn's first novel also portrays the effects of a totalitarian government and false worship. **spoiler alert** The leaders of Nollop become so obsessed with Nevin Nollop and the cenotaph built in his memory, that they see the fallen letter tiles as messages from beyond the grave...when, in fact, it's just the deterioration of the adhesive used to place the tiles on the monument. The rules they enforce on the residents, without much thought and no consultation, are harsh and cruel. Soon the people who thrive on their love of language find themselves slaves to it. A fun read with a deeper message. Definitely glad I read this book. ...more 5***** and a \u2764 On a fictitious island nation off the coast of South Carolina, the people pride themselves on their literacy and writing. Their founder, Nevin Nollop, is credited with writing \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" A sentence that contains all the letters of the alphabet, and which is memorialized in the town square. But when a letter tile falls from the monument, the Council takes that as a \"sign\" from above, and decrees that they should no longer use THAT letter. The far- 5***** and a \u2764 On a fictitious island nation off the coast of South Carolina, the people pride themselves on their literacy and writing. Their founder, Nevin Nollop, is credited with writing \"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\" A sentence that contains all the letters of the alphabet, and which is memorialized in the town square. But when a letter tile falls from the monument, the Council takes that as a \"sign\" from above, and decrees that they should no longer use THAT letter. The far-reaching ramifications of this, and subsequent, decrees (as more letters fall from the monument) test the imagination, strength and patience of the residents. The novel is told in epistolary form, and their missives adhere to the ever more restrictive rules as the book progresses. From finding synonyms to creative substitute spellings and even use of numbers, Ella and her friends and family try valiantly to maintain communication. You wouldn\u2019t think the loss of one letter of the alphabet would have much impact. But what if you lost \u201cV\u201d and could no longer express your love? Or \u201cH\u201d and could no longer worship? More importantly, as residents flee the restrictions (or are forced out due to violating the laws), the entire society begins to crumble. Still, Ella and a handful of family and friends fight against the edicts and with the hope of returning their beloved island nation to a place where literacy is once again appreciated. I had read this before and had a lovely discussion about it with my college roommate\u2019s daughter. A few years ago she gave me the special illustrated gift edition, which has been sitting patiently on my shelves along with other \u201cspecial\u201d books. I\u2019m so glad I took it off the shelf and read it at this time. This is a wonderful little satire on the use/abuse of power, but it is also a love letter to all of us who love and cherish words. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * UPDATE: 02Dec14 - reread the book and updated my review. ...more I needed to engage my sense of humor on this, and I admit at first it didn't come into play. The first letter gone missing was the Z. Was there no one on the island named Elizabeth? Eventually, however, I got into the mood of the thing. The Islanders became quite creative in both their choice of words and their spelling. Toward the end, the spelling was almost beyond creative. I thought of the \"gibberish\" I complained of in Cloud Atlas . Fortunately, this gibberish was very, very short! I had expe I needed to engage my sense of humor on this, and I admit at first it didn't come into play. The first letter gone missing was the Z. Was there no one on the island named Elizabeth? Eventually, however, I got into the mood of the thing. The Islanders became quite creative in both their choice of words and their spelling. Toward the end, the spelling was almost beyond creative. I thought of the \"gibberish\" I complained of in Cloud Atlas . Fortunately, this gibberish was very, very short! I had expected to be reading this to fulfill the South Carolina slot in this season's challenge. Alas, the Island of Nollop is its own country. While I did enjoy this, my 4- and 5-stars are reserved for more heady fare. ...more Click the image below to watch the video review This may be one of my top 5 or 10 novels of all time. It has the perfect blend of crazy concept and beautiful execution that I love. It reads like a collaboration between Mark Z. Danielewski, Jorge Louis Borges, and Jose Saramago. The people of the Island of Nollop have a passion for language and Nevin Nollop, the man responsible for the phrase \u201cThe quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog,\u201d a simple phrase which contains every letter in the alphabet in only thirty-five letters. They even have a statue erected of Nollop with his famous phrase displayed on tiles. Then one day, the Z falls off of the statue, and the island's Council is convinced that it is a message from Nollop himself. They declare that henceforth, the lett The people of the Island of Nollop have a passion for language and Nevin Nollop, the man responsible for the phrase \u201cThe quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog,\u201d a simple phrase which contains every letter in the alphabet in only thirty-five letters. They even have a statue erected of Nollop with his famous phrase displayed on tiles. Then one day, the Z falls off of the statue, and the island's Council is convinced that it is a message from Nollop himself. They declare that henceforth, the letter Z should not be spoken, written, or read. First punishment for violating this will be a verbal warning. The second is humiliation in the stocks, or a public flogging. The third is banishment from the island itself. One thing I love about book clubs is it encourages you to read books you may have otherwise put off, or never intended to read in the first place. When I heard that the readwonderland bookclub had settled on Ella Minnow Pea for it's monthly selection, I was admittedly a little disappointed. The premise sounded a little ridiculous, and I didn't know if I wanted to read it. When I saw that it was barely over 200-pages, I decided that it was worth a shot, and I'm so happy that I decided to read it. Ella Minnow Pea is a delightful and clever little book. Written in an epistolary style, the novel made me yearn for a time when we still wrote letters to each other instead of facebook updates. One thing that I found interesting was the fact that the novel was so lighthearted, given the somewhat grim nature of the plot, which includes murder and the public whipping of children. I think this is mostly due to the structure of the novel, as despite it's dark moments the novel was always fun to read. One thing I found interesting was the setting of Nollop itself. The people of Nollop are notorious for rejecting technology. There are no computers, and even the phone gets little use, making written letters the primary form of communication. This style of communication, combined with the characters sometimes old fashioned way of speaking gave the novel a rather quaint feeling. Another thing I appreciated was how well Dunn managed to write the novel given the restrictions of the plot. Z is not the last letter to be censored. As the novel continues, more tiles fall from the statue, and the characters have to restrict their language even more throughout each section. I was impressed that the novel managed to continue to be enjoyable, even when the people of Nollop lost vital letters such as D or I and O. Ella Minnow Pea was a surprisingly enjoyable novel, and the most lighthearted book about censorship I've ever picked up. I would recommend it for people who enjoy novels written in letter format, as well as people looking for a fun light read. Originally read and reviewed 11-27-10 Re-read 03-21-15 ...more<---C>Mark Dunn</---C><+++>Ella Minnow Pea: A Progressively Lipogrammatic Epistolary Fable</+++>", "Title": "Ella Minnow Pea: A Progressively Lipogrammatic Epistolary Fable"},
