{"Comments": "The only way I know how to describe how bad this book was is to share a few passages with you and give you my feedback. I've maintained the original format as much as I am able to help emphasize some of my points.<---F> Here it goes</---F>. The Passages \"Gabriel brought his hand up slowly so as not to spook her and gently caressed her cheek.\" What is she? A horse? \u201cDon\u2019t cry, little Rabbit.\u201d Um, Paul is a total creep. \u201cBut Julia didn\u2019t want to be keyed .\u201d And then a few paragraphs down. \u201cJulia turned away, ashame The only way I know how to describe how bad this book was is to share a few passages with you and give you my feedback. I've maintained the original format as much as I am able to help emphasize some of my points. Here it goes. The Passages \"Gabriel brought his hand up slowly so as not to spook her and gently caressed her cheek.\" What is she? A horse? \u201cDon\u2019t cry, little Rabbit.\u201d Um, Paul is a total creep. \u201cBut Julia didn\u2019t want to be keyed .\u201d And then a few paragraphs down. \u201cJulia turned away, ashamed of the sudden and intense rush of emotions she was having,<---M> over being keyed of all things</---M>, and having him cite beloved children\u2019s literature to her.\u201d Ok, this whole segment has issues. First and most obvious to me was the word keyed . I know this takes place in Canada, but both main characters are American. Not knowing what being keyed meant in Canadian I went to trusty Urbandictionary.com and gave it a looksee. Definition 1: High on marijuana. Considering what a straitlaced, na\u00efve, insult to 23 year-old virgins Julia is, I don\u2019t think she\u2019s high on anything, except maybe Italian poetry over-exposure. Definition 2: when ones vehicle or other expensive possession becomes defaced by someone scraping off the paint with their own set of keys. Well this is definitely something I wanted to do to her face after the first fifty pages. Definition 3: Getting completely fucked up through the use of both alcohol and marijuana. Again the use of illegal substances for our porcelain, angelic heroine I'm not feeling. But maybe she was ducking quick shots from her bottle of cheap tequila, again. If you look at the next part \u201csudden and intense rush,\u201d this sounds like an ad for Trojans so maybe it has a sexual connotation? But then you throw in the \u201cbeloved children\u2019s literature\u201d and I\u2019m starting to get really creeped out. This is Paul again, by the way. What is it with him and kids?! \u201cBeatrice,\u201d his arm tightened around her waist as he moved to whisper against her hair, still damp from the shower. \u201cDon\u2019t cry.\u201d With his brilliant blue eyes closed, Gabriel pressed his lips to her forehead, once, twice, thrice. \u201cI missed you. So much,\u201d she whispered, her lips moving against his tattoo. \u201cYou found me,\u201d he murmured. \u201cI should have waited. I love you. \u201d Now Julia wept harder, clinging to him as if she were drowning and he was her savior.\" *gak!!!* Ok, before your panties get all wet I would like to point out the reason why our virtuous heroine\u2019s hair is wet in the first place. Beatrice, or whatever the heck her name is, found it necessary to tidy herself up a bit after Gabriel lost control of his reflexes during a drinking episode and vomited all over her. ALL OVER HER. The last time my ex-boyfriend got the urge to regurgitate I made a point of staying the hell out of his way and you better believe he did not get the cuddle treatment afterwards. This is not something I want to be in the middle of. I will have you know that it made me personally cringe to have to rewrite the word \u201cthrice\u201d since, as much as the author would like to be as good as Shakespeare, he doesn\u2019t have the sense to realize that this word looks stupid in any other context. The sobbing throughout this book made me ill, a feeling Julia experienced every time someone exposed her to anything sexual in nature. At least we both have the ability to become ill in common. Now keep in mind as we reread this passage and our hearts are aflutter, Gabriel is still very much inebriated during this conversation. Not only does he have no clue what he\u2019s saying, but remembers none of it the next day, which leads me to the next quote. \"Why is he so angry with me? Why doesn\u2019t he remember?\" - omg, seriously? This coming from our little tart who drinks on the sly? Please tell me she\u2019s not so na\u00efve that she doesn\u2019t understand, at least from an academic point of view, the potential side effects of overindulgence. I mean she is, after all, so smart she got admitted to Harvard. Couldn\u2019t figure out how to get a full ride but, nevertheless, was a bright enough talent for the \"pole-in-keister Dante specialists\" of Harvard. (This keister phrase, btw, was used twice. I'm kinda of the opinion that phrases like this should be used only once in a book since they are so unique and stand out like a blinking light. But who am I to judge. I'm just the reader, not the Dante specialist.) \u201cHe sounded like sex. Or at least, what Julia imagined sex would sound like\u2026 Oh my, Gabriel. Oh my, Gabriel. Oh my, Gabriel. Oh\u2026my\u2026Gabriel. \u201d BWAAAAHAHAHAHAHA OMG THAT SOUNDS SO INCREDIBILY IDIOTIC I AM BESIDE MYSELF!!! On her kiss with creep boy, Paul: \u201cJulia felt his surprise in the quick clenching of his jaw. He tensed beneath her lips, no doubt in shock at her boldness.\u201d Um, honey, there are other reasons why a guy wouldn\u2019t be receptive to your advances. Considering Paul\u2019s proclivity for children\u2019s lit, I hesitate to venture a guess into what causes him to clench anything . \u201cHe would leave her as he found her, the blushing brown-eyed angel, surrounded by bunnies, curled up like a kitten in her little chair.\u201d There is something about this book that is just child-molesty. Maybe because everyone has the maturity level of a 12 year old. This is not a Paul quote, btw. \u201cIt was the lyrics about fucking like an animal, and the look on his face as he brought his forehead to hers and whispered it to her, staring straight into her soul\u2026she\u2019d believed she heard the voice of the Devil. Julia had wrenched herself from him and fled to the ladies\u2019 washroom, looking at the pale and shaking girl in the mirror, wondering what the hell had just happened. She did not know why he had spoken to her like that or why he had chosen that moment to confess. Nevertheless, she knew him well enough to know that the repeated lyric was a confession of his deepest and perhaps darkest intentions and not just a mindless repetition.\u201d Holy, moley. What the hell did I just read? The only thing this girl is shaking right now is her head. (This whole scene is referring the Nine Inch Nails song, Closer .) Something visually that I did not care for in this paragraph was the use of italics, which is overused in general in this book. In this paragraph it's emphasizing something that I personally don't think needs the emphasis, especially when coupled with eye-grabbing words like \"fucking.\" Furthermore, the addition of these force the reader to hitch when reading, thus interrupting the flow. Overuse of these devices can tend to lessen their impact to the reader, leaving them with a choice. They can either make the emphasis and feel like they're mentally riding a dirt track or ignore it completely and enjoy the smooth ride. Thus begs the question, was this device even necessary to begin with? \"Gabriel? Sweetheart, don\u2019t listen to that kind of music anymore, okay?\u201d She sounds like my mother when I was a teenager. \u201cThe other photo took Julia\u2019s breath away, for it was the most overtly erotic, and she was instantly repulsed by its rawness and aggression\u2026Julia was disturbed by the photo,\u201d but not so much that she didn't stop to describe it in full detail, \u201cand immediately looked away in embarrassment.\u201d Methinks something wicked this way comes and she\u2019s in total denial of it. kemfn : I still can\u2019t find a translation for this word. Can\u2019t say I particularly care too, either. Too many blasted different languages in this blasted book. \"He smashed a chair. He smashed a metal chair.\" And yet she still walked in the room. Wow. That's healthy. \u201dLook at me when I\u2019m speaking to you.\u201d I knew someone who said this. It pissed me off like you wouldn't believe. \u201cShe recognized the top photograph as the fifth one, the one that had been over the bed. It was gently erotic and almost tender. He shouldn\u2019t have been ashamed of this one. \u201d Wait?? Didn't she look quickly away in embarrassment? How the heck does she remember specifically which photograph this is and where it was hanging?! Mmmmm...She is so censorious and judgmental. It\u2019s sickening. The Flower References: \u2022\t\"You blossom under kindness, don\u2019t you? Like a rose.\" Omigosh, how seriously lame can you be! \u2022 \"She does blossom under kindness. Just like a rose, opening her petals.\" Gag!! Apparently incredibly lame! \u2022\t\"Her shoulders were hunched, and her head was down. He\u2019d made his little rose wither. Any blossoming had now been completely undone.\" You know, one of the best things anyone ever said to me is this. No one forces you to feel anything. Those feelings are something within you and no one but you can control them. With that said, could this chick get just a little more anemic please? \u2022\t\"She would be a rose in his eyes, and she would flower beneath him.\" God bless it, no more! \u2022 \"I want her petals to open,' Gabriel breathed softly,\" TO HIS SISTER, NO LESS! CREEP! The Incessant List of Pretentious Shit: \u2022\tChopin\u2019s Nocturne 9, Op. No. 2 \u2022\tHenry Holiday\u2019s Dante meets Beatrice at Ponte Santa Trinita \u2022 Venus de Milo and Bernini\u2019s Apollo and Daphne \u2022\tBotticelli\u2019s complete set of illustrations of The Divine Comedy , original sixteenth century reproductions and the only complete set in existence, naturellement . The Vatican doesn\u2019t even own this. \u2022 Serego Alighieri Vaio Armaron Amarone 2000 : And yes, just in case you were wondering, this IS the wine from the vineyard that Dante's son purchased in the fourteenth century. So there. O.o *phooooooooo* \u2022\tMeisterst\u00fcck 149: a rather ugly (in my humble opinion) fountain pen that costs more than I would like to spend on twenty such writing instruments. \u2022 Cyrano de Bergerac : I didn't want him to feel left out \u2022 The Velveteen Rabbit : I\u2019m sorry but for some reason this whole kids lit stuff creeped me out big time! \u2022\tMozart\u2019s Requiem Lacrimosa : I happen to like this piece of music (I actually listen to the whole piece, not just the one track on repeat like some people), but I\u2019m going to be giving it a break while I contemplate the complete translation into English. Give me a break, please! \u2022\tRodin\u2019s The Kiss , which \u201cJulia had not purchased a replica of it when she visited Mus\u00e9e Rodin in Paris because she found it too arousing.\u201d \u2026ugh\u2026followed by a vocabulary lesson in French on the usage of the word baiser and it\u2019s double meaning of \u201cto kiss\u201d or \u201cto fuck,\u201d which probably made her ill and had to rush off to the ladies' room. This chick is so frigid, I swear. \u2022\tFreaking Beowolf !! \u2022\tLaphroaig: \u201ca single malt Scotch whiskey\u201d with just a drop or two of spring water to \u201copen up the taste.\u201d She should have known that with all her wine swishing capabilities. \u2022\tOne paragraph: \u201cMy family is like a Dickensian novel, Julia. No, it\u2019s worse.\u201d \u2013 I agree, this could get much worse, wait for it \u2013 \u201cWe\u2019re a twisted mix of Arthur Miller and John Steinbeck, with a bit of Dostoyevky and Tolstoy thrown in.\u201d - Oh ga! She didn't! But wait, we're not done! \u2022\tThree Thomas Hardy references occurring in the following paragraph: Mayor of Casterbridge , Tess of the D\u2019Urbervilles , and Jude the Obscure (Oh, is that who wrote this book?) \u2022\tHem\u2019s Rabbit Songs featuring the eternal hit, Half Acre \u2022\tComplete 1st stanza from John Donne\u2019s The Flea . I actually had to look up the name for this one since the author did not provide it for once. \u2022\t\u201cGabriel liked it because they sold a particular kind of Trappist Ale that he preferred, Chimay Premi\u00e8re, and it pleased him to have pizza in the Neapolitan style to pair with that beer.\u201d Holy shit, you have got to be kidding. It would please me if you would just eat the damn pizza. It's not polite to swish your beer in public. And please don't ask me what was going on with that lambskin rug right after this. I tried not to look. \u2022\tThe ongoing references to H\u00e9lo\u00efse and Abelard (which I just kept picturing Big Bird\u2019s cousin Abelardo on the Mexican Sesame Street. I think I know something more obscure than the author. Wooopeee!) \u2022\tEdith Piaf\u2019s La Vie en Rose <-- I am so sorry Ms. Piaf to drag you into this! \u2022 Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin vintage 2002 : I think my nose just turned up an inch. \u2022 You and Me by Matthew Barber, who? \u2022 Far Far by Yael Naim. Apparently I\u2019m not playing along; 67 other people highlighted this part of the book. I am not one of them. \u2022 \"Hands of the Precious, Gollum.\u201d \u2022 Buena Vista Social Club \u2022 All the Pretty Faces by The Killers, preceded by two shots of that cheap tequila. \u2022 Prospero\u2019s Speech by Loreena McKennitt: I\u2019m really out of it on this one and the 113 people who highlighted this passage. \u2022\tda Vinci\u2019s La Scapigliata This is really beginning to give me a headache. \u2026and the list goes on and on and on and on\u2026 My Concluding Thoughts \u201dShe\u2019s been broken, you jackass.\u201d Sister Rachel to Brother Gabriel. And what, may you ask was our dear Julianne so broken about? The answer is something so incredibly lame it doesn\u2019t even warrant repeating and would, in fact, ruin what little suspense this book contains. There is nothing healthy to be learned from this book unless you include the prologue where Beatrice leaves Dante standing on the road like a fool. If your ideal future life involves codependency and psychological abuse, please, be my guest, read this book and add to the rave reviews it has received thus far. It has most assuredly not gained any esteem from me. ...more 2.5 stars I'm almost afraid to write a review, because this book is apparently universally loved ... and I definitely - obviously - did not feel the same way. I was so looking forward to the book and love pairings of a dark and tortured hero with a sweet and innocent heroine. Reynard definitely delivered on that last count - far, far too much: Julia was put up on a pedestal - and for reasons that I'm not sure warrant her being put there - and everything else was evil and dark and sinful. { Prais 2.5 stars I'm almost afraid to write a review, because this book is apparently universally loved ... and I definitely - obviously - did not feel the same way. I was so looking forward to the book and love pairings of a dark and tortured hero with a sweet and innocent heroine. Reynard definitely delivered on that last count - far, far too much: Julia was put up on a pedestal - and for reasons that I'm not sure warrant her being put there - and everything else was evil and dark and sinful. { Praise } Gabriel was a very interesting character and for the first ~2/3 of the book I really liked him. He was a total a-hole at the beginning - wanted to slap him upside the head a few times - but it was fun watching him then immediately after do something in a gruff off-handed manner to make up for it. There was definite darkness to the character and I was really looking forward to exploring and unraveling that. I liked their relationship in maybe the 3rd fifth of the book and I really enjoyed their class ... discussion. The chemistry between them was surprisingly good and the kisses - especially that first one! *sigh* - were pretty sizzling. And before he got far too sickly sweet (see #5 below) I loved how tender and caring Gabriel was with her. { General Criticism } I'm going to get these things out of the way, because the rest is all about my main issue with the book: (1) The POV switching was very, very odd and not at all smooth. It would switch between paragraphs - sometimes even between sentences - from Julia to Gabriel to the waiter at their table. It was confusing at times. (2) Paul drove me nutso. Absolutely 100% nutso. He and Julia probably should be together, with their sickening sweetness. He was ready to practically sacrifice his life for her within a few minutes of speaking with her and he could not stop calling her Rabbit every 5 seconds. (3) The ending is unbelievably rushed and not only that, but we're given a definite hint before then that there are going to be repercussions for something ... and then nothing happens. Very weird. (4) The whole thing about Beatrice-Dante and Julia-Gabriel became overused and their entire first encounter is difficult to believe, in the sense that I don't think either of them would have acted that way. All way too teenage-perfect and unreal. (5) The last third of the book is so sappy and corny. Gabriel and Julia are way, way, WAY too sweet all the time - to the point of not being at all enjoyable. I wanted to scream, Enough already! Go carve your names into a tree, get those matching necklaces with half of a heart, and exchange promise rings. IMO, it got to be so over the top. (I know, you couldn't tell I thought that). (6) The author crossed the point of subtly showing us that he knows his stuff (Dante, history, music, etc.) and went into the area of making us feel like he was trying to prove it { My Main Objection } I was looking forward to her character, because I love shy, wallflower-type heroines, but by the end of the book, Julia / Julianne / Beatrice / whatever was really driving me nuts. Julia was far, far too \"innocent\" and we hear constantly - CONSTANTLY - about her purity and innocence . She's naive and perfect and beautiful and stands on a pedestal and is light personified and on and on and on. She was absolutely \"perfect\" and therefore, to me at least, absolutely boring. Even though she's supposed to be this angel of utter perfection (don't even want to county how many times she is referred to as such), the truth is I did not find her perfect at all. For the middle of the book, I found her to be very judgmental and intolerant. Also, at one point she says that has \"unfortunately\" been hit on by women before and it came off sounding a little homophobic. Interesting note: the only two bisexual women in the book - or at least, women who are open to sleeping with another woman - are evil / mean ... hmmm. I hated that Gabriel is supposed to be this horrible, dark, tortured guy who has done all these bad things and because he is so sinful and unforgivable, he has to beg Julia to forgive him and love him anyway - even though he doesn't deserve it, which we hear over and over and OVER again - so that he can bask in her light, blah di blah di blah. I hated that there's this sense Gabriel can't fully disclose things to her about his past because she's too innocent and fragile. That she's scared of his darkness and he has to protect her from it and doesn't want to pollute or corrupt her by even telling her about it. I hated that her reaction to any type of variation in the bedroom is one of horror and that we're told through both of them that making love has to be tender and gentle and anything else is degrading and wrong and immoral. I know that she is a virgin and she's been through a bad relationship previously, but to me that didn't equal an explanation for what we're told. Which is that using the word \"f*cking\" for having sex is a capital sin. That having had troubles and made mistakes means you're stuck in sin and destined for hell and darkness until, if you're lucky, you get to go into the light and be with an apparently perfect (but really not so much) angel in human form. That having a one night stand is the worst thing on earth. That lust is evil and shameful and that artistic but erotic art is disgusting. That a woman being on her knees is offensive - and not even only in the mind-in-the-gutter sense (though that as well) but just in general, i.e. you're picking something up that you dropped (I kid you not). Now, before anyone attacks me and accuses me of being some sex maniac who hates virgin heroines, let me tell you that while Julia is a 23-year-old virgin, I'm a 25-year-old one, and that already at the beginning of the book she has more experience in this department than I do. Okay? So this is not a case of me disliking this book because virginity and innocence are glorified and I feel personally attacked. { Bottom Line } This book was not for me and I won't be picking up the sequel. Julia is boringly \"innocent\" (don't even think that's the proper term), the book feels a little preachy and a lot judgmental, and the last third of the book was so corny / sappy / sweet that I had to stop myself from skimming. (Written August 16, 2011) ...more Wow! Loved it. I cannot believe this was written by a man. And that last scene? Phew! HOT! That's all I've got. The rest has already been said. But, if you like hot, angsty, possessive men, you'll love this one! 6/7/2012 Edited to add: Oh my word! I have found my Gabriel. Hello, Love! http://25.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lvo... Let's set aside the unethical practices that lead to this book (aka Twilight Fan Fiction) being published and just focus on the story. This is a giant turd-nugget of misogyny wrapped in romance stereotypes and sprinkled with the most basic understanding of classic literature. No literally, if you read Dante's Inferno for Dummies you will walk away with a better comprehension of that classic work than the author of this humongous joke of a novel. The sad part is the author is skilled at manipulati Let's set aside the unethical practices that lead to this book (aka Twilight Fan Fiction) being published and just focus on the story. This is a giant turd-nugget of misogyny wrapped in romance stereotypes and sprinkled with the most basic understanding of classic literature. No literally, if you read Dante's Inferno for Dummies you will walk away with a better comprehension of that classic work than the author of this humongous joke of a novel. The sad part is the author is skilled at manipulating readers into believing that a story about a young college coed being mentally, emotionally and intellectually manipulated by her professors is sexually arousing, and laughably romantic. No seriously, the overwhelming amount of agency that is given up by our leading female is so devastating that every time I see a female reader give this book anything more than two stars I feel the woman's movement take a full step backwards. It would be refreshing to read a book with literary themes that didn't show a female heroine who has to use her vagina to win love and respect from her male counterpart, but alas <+++>Gabriel's Inferno</+++> is not it. Not by a long shot. Additional note: I have a theory that part of why this book is so well loved has a lot to do with effort justification (See my comments below). I'd write a detailed analysis, but this piece of crap series doesn't warrant the effort. ...more This is an astounding piece of literature that is sure to stay with you long after you finish because you will be wondering....was the author serious or was it all just a giant trolling experiment? Where do I begin? Lets start with... Meet Julia Mitchell who is also described as angel, rabbit, and don't forget the many times the author shoves it down your throat that she is indeed a \"lady\". Julia is so sweet and fragile, that people are actually afraid to bruise her in a handshake. Her main person This is an astounding piece of literature that is sure to stay with you long after you finish because you will be wondering....was the author serious or was it all just a giant trolling experiment? Where do I begin? Lets start with... Meet Julia Mitchell who is also described as angel, rabbit, and don't forget the many times the author shoves it down your throat that she is indeed a \"lady\". Julia is so sweet and fragile, that people are actually afraid to bruise her in a handshake. Her main personality features are blushing, crying, and looking down at her feet. Though we are told by other characters and the awkward third person narration that she has some backbone, we never actually see it. But like a true Mary Sue, everyone loves/has a boner for her none the less. Oh, and she bites her lower lip, like every two seconds. The entire novel is basically one giant advertisement for chastity, and how sex is very sinful unless it is purified by love (hmm where have I seen this message before?). Even the man who supposedly \"dedicates his life to uninhibited pleasure\" experiences a shit ton of misplaced guilt about some vaguely mentioned one night stands he's had in the past. Funny enough, he doesn't seem to feel nearly as bad about beating up his adoptive family, trapping/scaring the shit out of women, or being a generally intolerable, condescending prick. The author's idea of \"goodness\" seems to be very skewed. But I'll move on, because I could rant on this point alone forever. Then there's Paul. He really really likes The Velveteen Rabbit, which is illustrated in this passage that I think is supposed to be romantic 0.o \"As they continued their tour, Paul resolved in his heart to be patient. Very, very patient. And cautious, whenever he reached out a tentative hand to offer her a carrot or to gently stroke her soft fur with his fingers. Or else he knew he would frighten Rabbit away, and he wouldn't have the opportunity to help her become Real\" Gabriel is basically your average super attractive and rich fellow, that just happens to check off every basic warning sign of an abusive partner. Some notable quotes and passages are : (In 23 year old Julia\u2019s memory from a long time ago (which makes her underage probably), when he took her to the forest after beating up his family) \u201cHe brought his head closer to her\u2019s. \u201cHave you ever held a boy\u2019s hand before?\u201d She shook her head, and he laughed softly. \u201cThen I\u2019m glad I\u2019m your first.\u201d - seriously, is that not creepy and pedophile ish? \u201cHe smelled of musk and sweat and beer, but Julia ignored those distractions and focused on the scent that was Gabriel, something very masculine and potentially dangerous\u201d - Pretty sure he crossed the \u201cpotentially\u201d line when he beat up his family. \u201cJulia watched him warily. Satisfied that his anger had cooled, she walked over to him and sat on a nearby stool, still keeping a healthy distance between them. She wondered how fast he could run. And how fast she could run if he was chasing her.\u201c - Now here\u2019s a healthy thought to be having while sitting next to your love interest! Dafuck did I just read? \"He looked at her book bad and decided then and there that it had to go. If he had to see that hideous thing one more time, he was going to lose it. And Paul had touched it, which meant it was polluted\" - is the Professor afraid of cooties? (Gabriel watching Julia drink wine, which is apparently really sensual and arousing) \"He felt himself twitch more than once in anticipation and wished that he had a video camera secretly placed in his condo somewhere. It would probably be too obvious to pull his camera out and take snapshots of her\" - really? it would PROBABLY be too obvious if you took your fucking camera out and started taking snapshots of her for your wank bank? naw. Not at all. \u201cNow sip your drink slowly like a good little girl, and stop acting like you belong in a place like this\u201d - Charming quote from Gabriel. So swoon-worthy. And yes, after that she was still lusting after him. \u201cHe moved her until they were hidden in a long, dark corridor, pushing her against a wall. He continued to hold her waist, drinking in the feel of her quickening pulse beneath his fingers and placing his other hand on the wall next to her shoulder. She was trapped\u201d - THIS IS NOT OKAY. this is NOT fucking okay. (While she is still trapped) \u201cDance with me\u201d She snickered \u201cNot a chance in hell\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t be so difficult\u201d \u201cI\u2019m just getting started being difficult with you, Professor\u201d \u201cWatch it\u201d he sounded ominous And finally Lessons I learned while reading <+++>Gabriel's Inferno</+++>. 1. You can only have orgasms with controlling, possessive, condescending emotional infants hidden in the body of a grown man. Healthy relationships just aren\u2019t sexy yo. 2. You can totally fall in love with someone after only having seen their photograph. 3. After you meet the object of your affection in real life and see that he sent his dad to the hospital, shoved his mom and scared the shit out of his entire family, the most logical reaction is \u201cOMG HE\u2019S SO HAWT AND DANGEROUS, YES I\u2019LL TOTALLY GO TO A FOREST ALONE WITH YOU\u201d 4. When an older man takes a young girl to a forest after beating up his family, asks her if \u201cshe\u2019s ever kissed/held hands with/done anything with a boy\u201d, then molests her so that he can be \u201cher first\u201d, that is TOTALLY HAWT AND ROMANTIC YOU GUYS. 5. It\u2019s okay if the guy is abusive, misogynistic, arrogant, judgmental, or has the maturity of a 5 year old, as long as he\u2019s really hot and rich. 6. It\u2019s totally normal and not creepy for a random guy you met in a lecture to be obsessed with protecting you from things that aren\u2019t really dangerous, leave you voice mails, and call you rabbit, after the first day of knowing you. It\u2019s also not creepy/infuriating when men treat you like a child. That shit is super endearing. ...more Once again, I dislike the book everyone else obviously loves. First of all (and I NEVER thought I'd say this about a book) - it is too long. It would be fine if it had action-driven plot, but for a story like this I think that reducing the number of pages would be a significant improvement. This way, I had a feeling that I was reading the same thing over and over again \u2013 every encounter between Gabriel and Julia looked almost exactly the same like the previous one. It just dragged on and on and Once again, I dislike the book everyone else obviously loves. First of all (and I NEVER thought I'd say this about a book) - it is too long. It would be fine if it had action-driven plot, but for a story like this I think that reducing the number of pages would be a significant improvement. This way, I had a feeling that I was reading the same thing over and over again \u2013 every encounter between Gabriel and Julia looked almost exactly the same like the previous one. It just dragged on and on and I was seriously worried that I will have to break my own rule of finnishing every book I start and put this one aside. I didn't, but even if I did, it wouldn't make any difference because the second half was even worse than first. Second, it was waaay too predictable. I usually don't mind that, but this was just too much. There wasn't a single moment of surprise and at some point it just came down to waiting to happen something that I already knew is going to happen. It became boring. Third \u2013 I hated Julia. She's just too ''perfect''. That amount of perfection just doesn't work for me, it made her dull and annoying and I was irritated by her from the beginning . There are two different personalities in her and for a while I hoped that she was just acting in some situations. Unfortunately, she wasn't. So, one side of her is a (virgin) pocket Venus, too sexy and beautiful for her own good. Even the way she eats is so sensual that noone \u2013 men, women, boys, professors, students \u2013 you name it \u2013 is able to resist that amount of beauty and sexiness. On the other hand, she is pure, naive, caring, nice, shy and innocent (this one was repeated so many times it made me nausious). So, we have a pure, innocent virgin who is sensual and sexy beyond reason. I'm not saying it isn't possible, I'm saying that in this story it wasn't presented in a way that would make her interesting (or credible). And she is just too damn sensitive and fragile for my taste. Instead of unique, interesting and exciting girl, she just seemed boring, at least to me. I didn't care for her one bit. Fourth \u2013 I had a hard time liking Gabriel. I tried, I really have, but still failed. I am a big fan of bad, disturbed and dark characters and I expected to fall for Gabriel at instant, but it didn't happen. Instead of being dark, all he did was talk about how he's dark. Some parts of his past fit in that description, because what happened to him and what he did to others made him edgy and dark, BUT\u2026 With Julia he was just too corny. He was too gentle, too sweet, too careful to say and do the right thing at every moment. He didn't want to hurt her so much that he was afraid to tell her the truth about his past, and he just dragged on and on with it. He praised her beauty and innocence and appologised for him being\u2026 well, him, so much I wanted to vomit every time. And he gave her too much presents. Again, I'm not saying that there's anything wrong with all that, but it just doesn't fit in a damaged guy he is supposed to be. Bad boys just aren't like that. Yes, they do want to change when they feel there is something worth the effort. Yes, they can be ridiculously romantic and sweet. Yes, they can be overprotective. I know all that from experience. But they don't talk like Gabriel talks. They don't compare people to roses, they don't repeat how someone is innocent and sweet in every single sentence and they don't apologize for who they are all the time. Gabriel did that all the time, he was like ''I am dark, and not good enough for you. Sorry for who I am. Oh, you are so pure and innocent and sexy at the same time. I'm sorry I'm not worthy of you. You are a beautiful, INNOCENT rose and I need to keep my hands off of you. But I am bad, so I won't do that. Sorry.'' He just didn't seem real. The emails and messages they sent to each other were\u2026 Well, I had a few (actually more than a few) ''kill me now'' moments. And the sex thing \u2013 oh they planned their first time for weeks, talked about it through pages and pages, and finally, it lasted forever while they were doing it. And of course, it was PERFECT. It wasn't exciting. It was boring. They made sex so\u2026 not sexy. Fifth \u2013 changing the POV so much made my head spin. It wasn't that difficult to follow, but all that jumping from one POV to another\u2026 I don't know, I just didn't like it. I could go on and on about what I didn't like, but I'll stop being negative and say what I did like. So here we go. I liked the title, as soon as I saw it I couldn't resist reading this book. I liked the writing style, it was clever, detailed and funny AT TIMES and I can see a great potential here. If the writer didn't repeat himself so many times, I would like it even more. Anyway, there are some good sentences in this book and they are not to be ignored. The author's knowledge of Dante and Italian art is really impressive. Actually, I would like to read a book about that and ONLY about that, becouse while describing some pieces of art he managed to show his talent somewhere in between all that crap with Gabriel and Julia. 1 star from me, because I was annoyed by Julia and Gabriel and their boring relationship. ...more Re-read of Gabriel\u2019s Inferno Audiobook Professor Emerson... you\u2019ve stolen my heart once again! I think this re-read made me love this book even more than the first time I read it. Gabriel\u2019s Inferno is one of the most beautiful and well written romances I have ever read. I can\u2019t wait to do a re-read of book 2 and am anxiously awaiting the release of the third! \u201cWhen I am an old man and I can remember nothing else, I will remember this moment. The first time my eyes beheld an angel in the fles Re-read of Gabriel\u2019s Inferno Audiobook Professor Emerson... you\u2019ve stolen my heart once again! I think this re-read made me love this book even more than the first time I read it. Gabriel\u2019s Inferno is one of the most beautiful and well written romances I have ever read. I can\u2019t wait to do a re-read of book 2 and am anxiously awaiting the release of the third! \u201cWhen I am an old man and I can remember nothing else, I will remember this moment. The first time my eyes beheld an angel in the flesh. \u201cI will remember your body and your eyes, your beautiful face and breasts, your curves and this.\u201d He traced his hand around her navel before dragging it lightly to the top of her lower curls. \u201cI will remember your scent and your touch and how it felt to love you. But most of all, I will remember how it felt to gaze at true beauty, both inside and out. For you are fair, my beloved, in soul and in body, generous of spirit and generous of heart. And I will never see anything this side of heaven more beautiful than you\u201d ...more Lovely! Especially loved their backstory. *5 Stars* (edited review) The reread is even sweeter... It has been said that no two persons ever read the same book. I'd also venture to say that no one person ever reads the same book twice. Each reread holds a different experience; a separate opportunity to view the story in a new light, this time with pockets full of insight. And since my experience, although equally wonderful, was different this time around, I feel compelled to compose a new review reflecting my current feelings. Gabriel's In *5 Stars* (edited review) The reread is even sweeter... It has been said that no two persons ever read the same book. I'd also venture to say that no one person ever reads the same book twice. Each reread holds a different experience; a separate opportunity to view the story in a new light, this time with pockets full of insight. And since my experience, although equally wonderful, was different this time around, I feel compelled to compose a new review reflecting my current feelings. Gabriel's Inferno is a book that speaks to me on various levels, many of which oppose one another. This story is insanely sexy, but tender and romantic. It's sweet but fierce; dark but light. It's serious and emotional, but entertaining and funny. It's fresh and original, but has an old fashioned, timeless feel that keeps me coming back for more. What makes this book stand out amongst others in its genre is the exquisite writing; writing that transports the reader precisely where the story leads, with a unique style that's lyrical, eloquent, and romantic. It offers a cast of genuinely complex and intriguing characters, and has introduced me to one of my favorite fictional couples to date: Gabriel and Julia. Gabriel is Julia's professor in her Dante seminar, and this is where the forbidden element arises. Their reluctant relationship is slow to build, but passionate and romantic with the perfect amount of angst and sexual tension. Gabriel is a brooding, pretentious, alpha-type hero whose initial arrogance reaches comical heights. But he has a sweet filling. He's the product of a painful past, and takes himself way too seriously. But luckily, this story offers a third person perspective with a sometimes-snarky narrator who likes to poke fun at Gabriel's various idiosyncrasies \u2014 such as his obsession with fountain pens and his \"medieval\" mannerisms. It often appeared as though Gabriel was just released from another decade, and I adored this quirky aspect of the storytelling. Julia is a loving and genuinely kind heroine. She may appear weak and innocent, but she does have backbone. She strives to see the good in people and believes that evil is better left alone, where it's free to discover itself. And although it seems she'd be Gabriel's saving grace, their need for each other was balanced. This book draws inspiration from the passionate love story of historical figures Dante and Beatrice , offering a modern day spin that is simply stunning. There are multiple themes presented within the plot \u2014 \"redemption\" being the focal point. I fell in love with this story at first read, and it has become one of the rare few that I will continue to make time to read despite my ever growing TBR list. Just beautiful! For if you truly believe that kindness is never wasted, you have to hold tightly to that belief even when the kindness is thrown back in your face. Book Stats: \u25aa\t Genre/Category: Contmeporary romance \u25aa\t Steam Caliber: Moderate/Very sexy \u25aa Romance: Slow buildup, passionate, gorgeous. \u25aa\t Characters: Sexy, brooding, but sweet hero. Strong and lovable heroine. \u25aa\t Plot: Forbidden love. Professor/student. Redemption themed. \u25aa Writing: Eloquent, poetic, original and completely breathtaking. \u25aa POV: 3rd Person Perspective \u25aa\t Cliffhanger: None \u25aa\t Next Installment: Follow up ...more I have a passion for teacher and student love stories, and this is by faaaaar the most delicious and intriguing book I have ever read upon this subject. I quickly became addicted to the story, for me this being like a roller-coaster of emotions. First you have the heroes: Julia- a shy but determined student, that dreams of becoming a Dante Specialist. We get to see her journey of discovery, that is by far a complex one, from a girl to a woman. Gabriel- a conflicted yet charming Dante teacher, wi I have a passion for teacher and student love stories, and this is by faaaaar the most delicious and intriguing book I have ever read upon this subject. I quickly became addicted to the story, for me this being like a roller-coaster of emotions. First you have the heroes: Julia- a shy but determined student, that dreams of becoming a Dante Specialist. We get to see her journey of discovery, that is by far a complex one, from a girl to a woman. Gabriel- a conflicted yet charming Dante teacher, with a strong personality and intimidating posture. The 2 of them know each other, but one does't remember exactly the connection that they have, only when their feeling became too strong and the recollection is inevitable. Their love story is unique and tormented by both heroes past, the insecurities and mistakes they made are here to hunt them and keep them apart. In the first part of the book we see them struggling with their feelings, being aware of the impossibility of their relation. The heart battles reason, right battles wrong. In the second part we get to explore more of their relationship, and how can they cope with the obstacles they face. Although at the beginning, we believe that they are different, we will get to see throughout the book how much they are alike, this resemblance between them being the first thing that clicks them together, but also ignited some feisty scenes. Gabriel became one of my favorite heroes of all time because of his complexity as a character. You have 2 sides of him: the one that remained in the past, tortured by guilt, bad decisions and hate, and the one that you can see and explore thanks to Julia: loving, tender and thoughtful. Besides that, he is extremely smart, stubborn and has a huge impact on everyone he meets. His development in the series is outstanding, and by the end of the books you will love him more ( if possible) :) Second, the book is so well documented and full of artistic and literature references that will blow your mind away. It is very well kept together by it and supports the action and the love story of the heroes. I don't think that we have one page that doesn't have an artistic idea in it and 5 stars to Sylvain for putting this book together in this amazing way. It was well documented, with a strong base and not a word in it was unnecessary. In a few words, this series was it for me, having every ingredient to keep on reading and connect with my heroes at a deep emotional level. 5 stars and keep on counting!! For more reviews please check https://readwithloveblog.wordpress.com ...more \"You are a only a magnet for mishap, Miss Mitchell, while I am a magnet for sin.\" 4 I Burn for You Stars! There are three things I loved the most about this book: <---C>Gabriel Emerson</---C> Gabriel Emerson and GABRIEL EMERSON Gabriel Emerson aside, I loved all the things about this book. I was pulled in the moment I started reading it because of <---A>Sylvain Reynard</---A> 's unique and captivating writing. The storyline, although you can call it clich\u00e9, is usually the kind of story that holds my interest. Forbidden st \"You are a only a magnet for mishap, Miss Mitchell, while I am a magnet for sin.\" 4 I Burn for You Stars! There are three things I loved the most about this book: Gabriel Emerson Gabriel Emerson and GABRIEL EMERSON Gabriel Emerson aside, I loved all the things about this book. I was pulled in the moment I started reading it because of Sylvain Reynard 's unique and captivating writing. The storyline, although you can call it clich\u00e9, is usually the kind of story that holds my interest. Forbidden student-teacher love? Right up my alley! Gabriel's Inferno is written as a 3rd person POV. It follows the enigmatic Gabriel Owen Emerson , a Dante specialist and professor at the University of Toronto. As a professor, he is not allowed to get romantically involved with any of his students, but when he met the innocent, vulnerable and somewhat familiar graduate student Julia Mitchell , he wasn't able to resist the physical and even emotional attraction that he felt for her. I'll be honest with you. There was a slow build-up of the plot and the romantic development here, but I thought it was a good thing. I love stories that begin with enough prelude before getting into intimacies. Julia and Gabriel's romantic development gave me goosebumps. The fact that they started their relationship as platonic.... it was sweet and breathtaking. I especially adored the classical sound tracks that were mentioned in this book. I am a fan of Andrea Bocelli and his song Sogno was featured here, so it automatically made me swoon. The dialogues in this book were also charming. I cannot properly formulate a thought on how I enjoyed the way Julia and Gabriel had deep conversations and how they connected Dante's The Divine Comedy to their own story (Although I honestly don't have the knowledge about The Divine Comedy lol). When it comes to my favorite scene, it happened in Chapter 15. Man, that was some fiery exchange of dialogues. I thoroughly enjoyed the way the story climbed as a whole. It was slow burn but so worth it. I am so excited to delve into the next book! ...more This review was posted at My Secret Romance Sorry it has taken me so long to put a review together...it was very hard to put my thought together for this book. So here goes. There's an aura of sensuality that surrounds this book. It's sinfully arousing yet hardly any actual romance scenes. If an author can write a book with just kissing scenes in it and make the kisses so seductive, then I have to give the author credit. That is talent. The details of the kisses were slow and passionate, to where This review was posted at My Secret Romance Sorry it has taken me so long to put a review together...it was very hard to put my thought together for this book. So here goes. There's an aura of sensuality that surrounds this book. It's sinfully arousing yet hardly any actual romance scenes. If an author can write a book with just kissing scenes in it and make the kisses so seductive, then I have to give the author credit. That is talent. The details of the kisses were slow and passionate, to where the hands are placed on the body or in the hair was very erotic to read. I've said to my hubby many times that it's all in the kiss, that it is to be taken slow. A kiss can awaken all your senses. It's in his kiss, pure and simple. I had no idea a man wrote this book until after I started reading it. I've never read a book written by a man before so this was new and exciting to me. It's not that I chose not to, I've just never come across one before I wanted to read, until now. There's a question that all men have asked that's gone unanswered for centuries, or perhaps, since the dawn of time. There was actually a movie made years ago staring Mel Gibson and it's called, What Do Woman Want? Well, gentleman all over the world, read this book and you shall know. We woman want to be cherished, spoiled, appreciated, wanted-and not just sexually, put on a pedestal, and most of all, loved like no other. It's not a lot to ask for and very simple, really. And that's how Gabriel was with Julia. We watched Julia unfold and turn into this blossoming beautiful butterfly of a woman who was a tight as a cocoon in the beginning. She's had somewhat of a difficult childhood and a past relationship that turned bitter. This author does an amazing job with the character development. I really felt connected with Julia on so many levels. I'm also shy and timid and had a very rough childhood so I understood where she was coming from. Nevertheless, she persevered through it all. She is now in graduate school going for her masters and studying Dante. This is where she reconnects with Professor Gabriel Emmerson, the Dante specialist, whom she met one night years earlier and has not forgotten since. Gabriel, on the other hand, takes one look into her eyes and knows he's seen them before but can't quite place where...he thought they were eyes of an angel who rescued him once long ago. Gabriel, at first, is a very dark and angry man, lashing out at Julia in the beginning of this novel a few times. I didn't understand him at first but when Julia was called to his office after class and sees him breakdown in tears, my heart started to melt a little for him then. Gabriel is not as cold as he wants everyone to think he is. He puts on a front because he has demons of his own that he's fighting everyday and has come to the conclusion that he will live the rest of his days suffering in the fiery pits of hell for all of the sins he's made.....that is until Julia walks into his life and shows him he's paid for those those sins. Since Gabriel is a Professor at University of Toronto, and Julia's a student there, there are rules that must be followed and one is to not get involved in a relationship with a student other than a professional one. I'm sure that's at every University across the country though. Because of this rule, Gabriel must keep a professional relationship with Julia, though he is becoming more and more attracted to her which is making it difficult to fight his feelings for her. I thought this was great! As much as I wanted them to give in to each other, I think it built a foundation for them and the love they have for each other. It was done very well. Not only does it lay the grounds for their love and relationship, it helps them overcome each others obstacles and sins they think they've committed in the past, therefore having no secrets between each other once united. I really enjoyed this book a lot and I love the book cover. If you're looking for a hot and steamy romance, then you're going to have to wait until the very end of this book for any of that. Naturally, I would have preferred more, but I can see why it wasn't added to it. It is a very sensual read and for some reason I am very surprised by this. Maybe because a man wrote it? Not sure....I did hear that there will be a sequel to this book. I will definitely be reading it, although I do feel like this book ended on a happy note so I'm curious to see where that will go. Possibly with more romance scenes please? Another reason why I enjoyed this book so much is because there were many Italian references in it. I guess there had to be since Dante's Inferno was partially the main topic, but it was just nice to see something other than Spanish and French. Not that I have anything against those Nationalities, but I'm Italian and Sicilian so I love all things Italian. There was a strong Renaissance feel to this book, which made me love it even more. There were only a few issues I had with this book and one was the bow tie Gabriel wore. I know, so trivial but would it kill him to wear a regular tie instead? Way more attractive then a bow tie, which reminds me of clowns by the way, which Gabriel is anything but! Also, the author uses 'for' a lot in this book. Example: for Julia would have not....for Gabriel did see...for the food was...for they did love....Did anyone else notice that? I did and it was very repetitive and could have gone without a lot of the times. But nonetheless, I still loved this book. Also, if you've never read anything by Dante Alighieri, then there's a good chance this book may be a little deep for you. I, for one, have never read anything by him so there were times where I was lost, but kept going in hopes that it would all fall together, and it did. For those of you who've read Dante's Inferno (since I have not), can you please let me know the correct book to read, I'm very interested in Dante. I looked it up and there were a few written by Dante and I think even some translated ones but wasn't sure which to read. Thanks xoxo Ok, I said I wasn't going to do this again, but I can't help it if a song reminds me of a book. I just popped the cd in my car today and listened to this song and I thought this book. I LOVE the violin.. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zq17mb... Here are some lines and scenes that I enjoyed: Some people are so self-absorbed and deluded that all the shouting in the world wouldn't be enough to convince them of their own shortcomings. - Gabriel He despised sneakers on woman, for they were a waste of a perfectly good podiatric opportunity. - Gabriel (I couldn't agree more!) I am already addicted to you, Beatrice. Only you're far more dangerous than cocaine. - Gabriel You need to become accustomed to my lips, Julia, because I intend to kiss you a lot. - Gabriel We need to see with out hearts and not our eyes. - Gabriel Why not think that sometimes\u2014just sometimes\u2014you can overcome evil with silence? And let people hear their hatefulness in their own ears, without distraction. Maybe goodness is enough to expose evil for what it really is, sometimes. Rather than trying to stop evil with more evil. If you want to wait until your scar disappears, Julianne, you\u2019ll wait forever. Scars never disappear. Caravaggio\u2019s painting made that point clear to me. Scars might heal and we might forget about them in time, but they\u2019re permanent. Not even Jesus lost his scars. But what of lust? If love is the rabbit, then lust is the wolf. Dante says so explicitly when he identifies lust as a sin of a wolf-like incontinence- a sin in which passion overtakes the reason. - Gabriel giving his speech, which was a fantastic one! \"You are the true work of art,\" he murmured against her throat. \"You are the masterpiece, Happy Birthday, Julianne.\" ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605! Gabriel\u2019s Inferno, book 1 of 3. Professor Gabriel Emerson\u2019s courtly seduction of his chaste student Julia! \u201cThen I\u2019m glad I\u2019m your first.\u201d Books in Gabriel\u2019s Inferno trilogy should be read in order: Book 1: Gabriel\u2019s Inferno Book 2: Gabriel\u2019s Rapture Book 3: Gabriel\u2019s Redemption Gabriel\u2019s Inferno , book 1 opens up with Professor Gabriel O. Emerson , Dante specialist for the Department of Italian Studies at the University of Toronto giving a seminar . MA Grad student Julianne Mitchell, Jul \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605! Gabriel\u2019s Inferno, book 1 of 3. Professor Gabriel Emerson\u2019s courtly seduction of his chaste student Julia! \u201cThen I\u2019m glad I\u2019m your first.\u201d Books in Gabriel\u2019s Inferno trilogy should be read in order: Book 1: Gabriel\u2019s Inferno Book 2: Gabriel\u2019s Rapture Book 3: Gabriel\u2019s Redemption Gabriel\u2019s Inferno , book 1 opens up with Professor Gabriel O. Emerson , Dante specialist for the Department of Italian Studies at the University of Toronto giving a seminar . MA Grad student Julianne Mitchell, Julia is in class, but not paying attention . Professor Emerson addresses her in front of class which only causes her to shrink in her seat and not respond. When he catches her a second time he asks her to see her after class. But their meeting never happened and so they are off to a very rocky start . It should be noted the brilliance of Sylvain Reynard\u2019s plot and writing . Set against the backdrop of Dante\u2019s Devine Comedy the Gabriel\u2019s Inferno trilogy is rich on symbolism, depth, history and divine message. The ingenuity of using Dante\u2019s journey in professors Emerson\u2019s lectures, life lessons, experiences and parallels that can clearly be drawn between Dante \u2013 Gabriel, who after having moved through hell meets up with his Beatrice \u2013 Julia, to be guided from hell to ultimately enter paradise. Simply divine! \u201cI\u2019m going to be thrown out of Paradise tomorrow, Beatrice. Our only hope is that you find me afterward. Look for me in Hell.\u201d Their romance will be a slow blossom\u2026. the epitome of courtly love . Quite the contrast to the previous life of Professor Emerson, respected and praised scholar by day and hedonist by night , roaming the clubs of Toronto for his next fuck. He finds himself irked by Julia , but after learning more about her situation he feels both pity and sympathy while fighting a growing attraction to his student. Julia in turn appears to have love-hate for her professor . Both are broken with secrets they rather keep. More will unfold throughout and not everything is at it seems! Add to that the university\u2019s strict non-fraternization policy and you have nothing short of a forbidden whirlwind romance with suspense, intrigue, villains, lies, deceit, jealousy and love against all odds! Professor Gabriel O. Emerson , or as Dante\u2019s Divine Comedy would have it, Dante Alighieri. But don\u2019t forget Gabriel the fallen angel\u2026 He has been through hell and he needs rescuing, except he thinks he is without a soul and unredeemable . \"She was both perfect and untouchable, a brown-eyed angel dressed in resplendent white, while he was older, world-weary and wanting.\" A larger-than-life hero, on my top -10 shelf. Nine words to describe Gabriel: Pretentious, mercurial, jaded, brilliant, broken, corrupted, enigmatic, commanding and unforgettable . \u201cI will always be conscious of your absence.\u201d And just like Beatrice came to guide Dante to paradise Julianne Mitchell, Julia has come to rescue Gabriel. Nine words to describe Julia: Shy, stubborn, smart, timid, chaste, tenacious, fragile, loyal and patient . \u201cI don\u2019t expect you to understand. You\u2019re only a magnet for mishap, Miss Mitchell, while I am a magnet for sin.\u201d Even better the third time around! Book 1 ends in a good place , but with much more to come so I am happy to jump over to book 2, Gabriel\u2019s Rapture for the continuation of their story. As for ingenuity, symbolism and depth this is by far one of the best romantic fictions I have ever read! Brilliant, inspiring and interesting plot! Masterfully told! Unforgettable and swoon-worthy professor Gabriel Emerson! And\u2026 enough intrigue, suspense and romance to keep you glued throughout their saga! The coveted 6-star shelf! \u201cYou\u2019re gorgeous, Gabriel. You always were, you know.\u201d \u201cNature\u2019s cruelty\u2014 the fallen angel retains his beauty. But I\u2019m ugly on the inside.\u201d *** Hero rating: 5+ stars Heroine rating: 4 stars Sex scenes rating: 5 stars Sex scenes frequency: N/A Storyline concept rating: 5+ stars Storytelling skills rating: 5 stars Story ending rating: N/A Book editing rating (5 = no edits spotted): 5 stars ************************************************ Overall rating: 5+ stars Would I recommend this series: Yes. Would I re-read this series: Yes. Would I read future books by this author: Yes. ...more If I had to only use one word to sum up this book? Classy. I wasn\u2019t supposed to read this book, you know. And I absolutely wasn\u2019t supposed to like it. I had read an excerpt from it about a year ago, and immediately scrunched up my nose while simultaneously turning it up in conclusion that it just wasn\u2019t my cup o\u2019 tea. I was like, \u201c A professor and a student version of Fifty Shades of Grey, eh?\u201d Pass. And then I did read it. And. Then. I. Fucking. Loved. It. So here, let me introduce it to you\u2026 ______ If I had to only use one word to sum up this book? Classy. I wasn\u2019t supposed to read this book, you know. And I absolutely wasn\u2019t supposed to like it. I had read an excerpt from it about a year ago, and immediately scrunched up my nose while simultaneously turning it up in conclusion that it just wasn\u2019t my cup o\u2019 tea. I was like, \u201c A professor and a student version of Fifty Shades of Grey, eh?\u201d Pass. And then I did read it. And. Then. I. Fucking. Loved. It. So here, let me introduce it to you\u2026 ____________________________________________ \u2666 She met him when she was sixteen. Out in a twilight orchard, she came across a very beautiful and apple-sweet boy. \u2666 \u2666 And he was gone in the morning. A couple of years go by, and that boy is now a haunted man. And he\u2019s her professor. ____________________________________________ \u201c\u2026 Miss Mitchell?\u201d Professor Gabriel Emerson\u2019s voice carried across the seminar room to the attractive brown-eyed young woman who was seated at the back. \u201cI expect an answer to my question, Miss Mitchell. If you\u2019d care to join us .\u201d His voice was glacial, like his eyes. The young woman opened her mouth minutely and closed it, staring into those unblinking blue eyes, her own eyes wide like a frightened rabbit. \u201cIs English your first language?\u201d he mocked her. ____________________________________________ Though Gabriel doesn\u2019t quite remember her\u2026 there\u2019s still a black wire of sexual attraction between the two. And he tries like hell to stay far, far away from it because he knows that he\u2019s surrounded by sin and she\u2019s enveloped by everything\u2026 good . Quite frankly, Julianne\u2019s *terrified* of Gabriel and tries to stay as far away from him as she possibly can. But the two of them keep running into each other through circumstance, and the more she sees of him\u2026 the more she\u2019s intrigued. And that intrigue soon turns into something else entirely. ____________________________________________ In terms of the whole Fifty Shades of Grey comparison\u2026 there definitely are similarities. But where FSOG was more\u2026 sexual and perhaps potable; Gabriel\u2019s Inferno is more sensual and emotionally consuming. I think E.L. James told the better story, and Sylvain Reynard told the story better. This is a book that\u2019s going to have you tearing through its pages like it\u2019s a 20-page picture book. Because it\u2019s just written so fucking well! I sat down to read a couple chapters, just to give it a second chance and 500 plus pages later\u2026 Here I am. That\u2019s all. ...more I had the privilege of reading an unpublished version of this book. I fell completely in love with this story, which became my reading addiction for nearly a year. I was there for every chapter update and would obsessively think about the characters in the interim. I fangirled the author, and became a complete freak over this story. I would STRONGLY suggest this book to any of my friends. It's an incredible love story. 5 stars. I was asked to review this book by Omnific Publishing and the funny thing was is that I won a coupon on Twitter from them and this was the book I had selected as what I wanted to read. I am a sucker for The Divine Comedy and any references Dante's Inferno. Hence Gabriel's Inferno caught my attention. I hadn't even read the blurb just saw the title and immediately related it to Dante's Inferno. I have never ready anything by Reynard and had no clue what so ever... A virgin reader to a new author I was asked to review this book by Omnific Publishing and the funny thing was is that I won a coupon on Twitter from them and this was the book I had selected as what I wanted to read. I am a sucker for The Divine Comedy and any references Dante's Inferno. Hence Gabriel's Inferno caught my attention. I hadn't even read the blurb just saw the title and immediately related it to Dante's Inferno. I have never ready anything by Reynard and had no clue what so ever... A virgin reader to a new author and I am just going to say that from the moment I picked up my Kindle I could not....Literally would not put my Kindle down. I was seduced, entranced, and completely satisfied after I reached 100%. This is the story of two people with equally troubled pasts. I can't even begin to make sense of the story and sound the least bit intelligent. I was a virgin to the world that Reynard created for his characters. The narrator, and its characters were equally charming and sinful. There were characters in the story that I detested for reasons the reader will understand when they pick up this amazing read. I always give little quotes here and there for most of my reviews and I will do it for this one as well, because the words were amazing, colorful, powerful, and most definitely seductive in a way that has the reader pulled into the story, living all the emotions that Julia lived through as well as the destructive and tormented nature of Gabriel. Professor and Student, Idolized Love and Dream, Awakens a powerful story that is Gabriel and Julia. The story opens up in Florence 1283 with the poet standing next to a bridge watching his secret love approach, and of all things the last thing he expected was far the beautiful muse to stop and actually talk to him but she does even if its only for the briefest moment. Then she leaves and he is left wondering if he will ever see her again. Then fast forward to present day. The setting is a class room with a very occupied Julia Mitchell as she is basically staring off into space and is interrupted by a Professor Emerson who is calling on her in class. She isn't able to answer her question. He is obviously upset with her, is even rude with her and the entire class notices. Julia is embarrassed but is quickly rescued by the handsome gentlemen sitting next to her who passes her a small note. That calms her nerves a bit. The note simply reads. \"Emerson is an ass\". When she giggles a bit this gets her into more trouble with Professor Emerson who requests her to meet him after class. The journey begins here. Its a story of the forbidden as well as a story of forgiveness and strength. I really don't want to give the story away, truly and honestly. But believe me when I say that you definitely want to embark on their adventure. Its a sensual and erotic journey into the lives of not just Julia and Gabriel but all the other players in the game. Reynard makes reference to some of my favorite stories. One in particular as a child I use to love The Velveteen Rabbit. This is actually a pet name that is given to Julia by Paul the handsome student that rescue's her from Professor Emerson. There is a dark and light side to this book, and it visits places that other authors have tried to visit and have not even been able to brush the tip of the iceberg. By a long shot! I don't considered my self a quote on quote top reader, but I do consider my self a worldly reader, and I read a little bit of everything from sonnets, to classical, all the way to biographies. My first love is Romance Paranormal to be factual. This is not a paranormal romance. This is a contemporary romance and it touches on Dante's Divine Comedy La Vita Nouva, and even the Hobbit by J.R.R Tolkien. Not in story but references made one I loved is when Julia compares Christa to a monster from the hobbit. I will let the reader figure that one out... Gabriel Emerson and Julia Mitchell are not suppose to be together, the teacher/student fraternization policy at the university is very clear on that, but the two manage to overcome that along with some other interesting obstacle and secrets as their relationship progresses. It's a turbulent start in the beginning that turns to a raw burning desire, a flame that has never gone out for Julia and one the good professor had always believed to be a dream. Its an amazing read and I can't wait for the next book... The journey doesn't end! I am excited to see their next adventure. The entire time I was writing this review I was tempted to go back and start the story again. That is how brilliant Reynard is. So its time for a quote... Its small and quick... But deep all the same. \"Now his blessedness appeared\" ...more My Julia and Gabriel: Wow! This is a phenomenal book! Gabriel's Inferno is the best story about forbidden love I have ever read. All characters were believable and real. They have their ups and downs, fears and dreams, past issues and hopes for future. This is very compact and smart book. It has everything - romance, erotica, art, religious elements. I really enjoyed reading it, it made me cry, laugh, smile, anxious... Reading Gabriel's Inferno was really a fulfilling experience! And I absolutely My Julia and Gabriel: Wow! This is a phenomenal book! Gabriel's Inferno is the best story about forbidden love I have ever read. All characters were believable and real. They have their ups and downs, fears and dreams, past issues and hopes for future. This is very compact and smart book. It has everything - romance, erotica, art, religious elements. I really enjoyed reading it, it made me cry, laugh, smile, anxious... Reading Gabriel's Inferno was really a fulfilling experience! And I absolutely love all those references to another classic literary works, especially the ones considering Lord of the Rigs. Main female character, Julia, is kind, sweet, smart and reincarnation of pure goodness. But also, she can be very passionate and angry when needed. She has definitely become my favourite female heroine. She always did exactly the same thing I would do if I was in her shoes. And Gabriel... he went thought various changes during the book and I have no other choice than fell in love with him. He may have a dark past and intense personality, but he is a true gentleman and he knows how to spoil a woman. I felt so much compassion for all characters, not just for Julia and Gabriel. Most of the time it was a sensual and pleasant reading but sometimes it was very heart-wrenching and my heart was racing when something bad was about to happen or something tragic to be discussed (and there is not many books that would do that to me). Dear SR, you have earned a prominent place on my favourite bookshelf with this book and you gained another devoted fan who is eagerly awaiting sequel. MORE REVIEWS ON MY BLOG Reading Is My Breathing ...more This book is just too long, it would have got 3 stars from me if it was atleast 100 pages shorter. The anoying thing is the main female character, Julia. She spends 2/3 of the book staring at her feet because she's so shy. Not much happening in the book, mostly Gabriel and Julia talking about the same stuff over and over again. Although, there are some very nice and emotional scenes, that's why I gave it 2 stars :) What to say about this wonderful book? When I read, I enjoy losing myself in the atmosphere, finding that I can \"see\" what is being played out before me on the page. This book and this talented author have that just ability. From the beginning, I was hooked; a poet longing for a woman, his muse. A passing of two people, a bright smile and he is forever lost. Fast forward to the present, where an irksome and pretentious bastard of a Professor berates his seemingly meek and mild graduate student. What to say about this wonderful book? When I read, I enjoy losing myself in the atmosphere, finding that I can \"see\" what is being played out before me on the page. This book and this talented author have that just ability. From the beginning, I was hooked; a poet longing for a woman, his muse. A passing of two people, a bright smile and he is forever lost. Fast forward to the present, where an irksome and pretentious bastard of a Professor berates his seemingly meek and mild graduate student. Why? What could she have possibly done to receive such treatment? Immediately I found that I wanted, no needed, to know why the Professor was so angry. An overheard phone call immediately made me change my feelings about the both of them. (I will divulge no more, you have to experience this level of captivation.) From that very moment on, I found that I needed to read more and more. This was a book that I could not put down. With each chapter, a little more peeled back and revealed. The characters grow and develop. To me they felt like real people; like people I could know, not some contrived character created to do amazing and astounding things as often seen in the popular literature. They experience true pain and hurt, but they also are capable of receiving and giving love, even for feeling hope. There is so much more beyond the surface of these characters. The reading of this novel rekindled my love of Dante and the Divine Comedy. It has awakened a deep desire to visit Italy. More times than not, I felt as though somehow the author was able to write in a way that resonated deeply for me. He was able to describe feelings I had and have held deep; how was he able to express so exactly what I could not say myself. I felt a closeness and connection with these characters that has me longing to learn more about them and where their journey will take them into the sequel. And of course, I must add that the presence of a snarky narrator kept a constant smile upon my face. Beautiful, touching and enchanting writing \u2013 this book deserves to be read and enjoyed. I cannot say enough good things about it. ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 ! Gabriel's Inferno, book 1. Poetic, beautiful and profound, forbidden and breathtaking. A sexy professor embraces in a dangerous affair with his beautiful student. MOVe OVER CHRISTIAN GREY. GABRIEL O. EMERSON IS IN THE BUILDING! Gabriel's Inferno was so utterly beautifull, completely stunning, spectactular and breathtaking, no matter what worlds I'll use I don't feel i can make this book justice. It is when I have read a masterpiece like this, that I simply adored, I wish that my english wa \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 ! Gabriel's Inferno, book 1. Poetic, beautiful and profound, forbidden and breathtaking. A sexy professor embraces in a dangerous affair with his beautiful student. MOVe OVER CHRISTIAN GREY. GABRIEL O. EMERSON IS IN THE BUILDING! Gabriel's Inferno was so utterly beautifull, completely stunning, spectactular and breathtaking, no matter what worlds I'll use I don't feel i can make this book justice. It is when I have read a masterpiece like this, that I simply adored, I wish that my english was better so I could convince everyone to read this hypnotic book. Everyone should get to meet Julianne and The Professor. Their love story is so beautiful. The way it started, the way it grows, the way it blossoms...I love that Gabriel was such an ass towards Julia, his poor student, at first. It was so much fun to read. Seriously, he was a first grade jerk! Sometimes he was such an intimidating douche that I almost wanted to pee my pants in Julia's place. I am suprised that she didn't. I didn't think it was possible to absolutely adore a novel this much. I love almost everything about this. Evert single page, and the writing is exceptional. It is amazing really how many times I can read this and still want more and more. The unique writing style, the plot, the characters, the pace and so on. I usually prefer when books are written in 1st POVs, but 3rd POV is perfect for this book. I have read this several and I cant seem to get tired of it. This is not one of your typical romance books, boy meet girl, they fall in love, get married, have kids - this is a much more complicated novel with a lot of drama and suprising twists. I can\u00b4t recommend it enough. This book is beautiful on so many levels. After reading this for the fourth time, I began to see the heroine, Julia, in an entirely different light. While I've always regarded her as a weak mouse, afraid of her own shadow, I this time realized that I couldn't been more wrong. She is so strong. She stands up for herself complletely and she always makes decisions that is right for her in the long run, even if it will hurt. She is anything but spineless. And listen to this: I found myself agreeing to everything she said, and every decision she made. That's the first time I can say that. And she is pure goodness. And The Professor, Jesus! , that is something so sexy over him and his bow ties , he gave me butterflies everytime a word came out of his mouth. Seriously, he is one of the sexiest male characters ever. It doesn't help that he is drop dead gorgeous and is an old fashioned gentleman. When he isn't being an ass, of course. He ruins panties everywhere he goes and he is on every womens fuck-me list. And he was a major man whore before he met Julia. I adored the way he persued her, and how much he loved her. This book between The Professor and his student, ten years his junior, is by far the best book I read when it comes to forbidden romances, and one of my very few, favorite books ever! Have I mentioned how sexy I find the professor, where the hell are men like that today? Do they even exist? How he courted Julianne ...oh my. It was perfect. He is perfect. The Professor's seduction skills get an A ++ DAVID GANDY is The Professor. Spot on! Dark, sexy, mysterious... ...more Wise men say only fools rush in... But I can't help falling in love with you....... Oh gods of wonderful books and voracious readers and all that is love and true and holy, thank you for the existence of this book! One of the best romance stories I've read this year ....one of the most sensual stories I've ever come across...I'm going to create a special category for this book... One-of-the-best-romances-with-the-best-kisses-and-wonderful-sensuality-and-story-that-left-me-sighing-endlessly-my-favouri Wise men say only fools rush in... But I can't help falling in love with you....... Oh gods of wonderful books and voracious readers and all that is love and true and holy, thank you for the existence of this book! One of the best romance stories I've read this year ....one of the most sensual stories I've ever come across...I'm going to create a special category for this book... One-of-the-best-romances-with-the-best-kisses-and-wonderful-sensuality-and-story-that-left-me-sighing-endlessly-my-favourite-kind-of-romance-surprisingly-written-by-a-man (Surprising not because I think that a man can't write such a story, surprising because I'd never come across such a story written by a man before this one :D)..... He pressed their lips together, and she sighed, resting her head against his chest and listening to the steady, contended rhythm of his heart. Time passed or stood still. Two almost-lovers entwined beneath a dark November sky, the stars and moonlight their only illumination. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- He embodied all the seven deadly sins....especially lust... She was the brown-eyed angel....filled with the seven virtues...especially chastity.. He was the Darkness... She was his light.... He was in Hell... And she.....his Paradise... He was her Dante... And she his Beatrice... \"You could have any woman you want, Gabriel.\" He furrowed his eyebrows. \"I only want you.\" She rested her head against his chest and smiled. \"Being without you, Julianne, is like enduring an endless night without stars.\" But he was The Professor and she, his student.... Will they find a way to be together?? Or will they burn forever in The Inferno??.... ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The story begins with The Professor, Professor Gabriel Emerson being Professor Ass to Miss Julianne Mitchell . He is charismatic, enigmatic, sexy and well, needless to say, gorgeous. With his sapphire eyes hidden behind a pair of black Prada glasses, warm brown hair, and impeccable dressing sense, he was the kind of professor who never had a dearth of female companionship, the kind who had all the females ogling him, fantasizing, and focusing more on him than his lecture. Oh and did I mention that he had great, sensual lips? She realized immediately that not only had she never seen a professor as attractive as he before, she had never encountered a professor who was so studiously put together. He could have appeared in an advertising campaign for Prada, something no prpfessor had ever done before. (For it must be noted that university professors are not usually admired for their fashion sense.) I can't seem to find my Gabriel, so for now just imagine the man below with more hotness, more elegance, more sexiness, more everything just oozing out of him... Oh gods of all pictures and hot men, please help me find my perfect Gabriel... Usually painfully poilte to everyone, he acts like a jerk towards Julia, a graduate student pursuing her MA under his supervision. For some reason, she irks him, arouses unknown emotions and feelings in him, feelings he has no idea what to do with... Miss Mitchell tasting wine was the most erotic thing he'd ever witnessed. She was not merely attractive; she was beautiful, like an angel or a muse. And she wasn't merely beautiful; she was sensual and hypnotic, but also innocent. Her pretty eyes reflected a depth of feeling and radiant purity that he had never noticed before. Miss Mitchell was a Calamity Jane, a vortex of vexation. But despite knowing that disaster might result from their association and destroy them both, he couldn't seem to resist her...because she seems so familiar ....so much like his Beatrice... \"Wrath is one of the deadly sins,\" she remarked, turning away from him to gaze out the window, trying to alleviate the burning sensation in her middle. He laughed bitterly. \"Remarkably, I have all seven; don't bother counting. Pride, envy, wrath, sloth, avarice, gluttony, lust .\" She lifted an eyebrow but did not turn around. \"Somehow, I doubt that.\" \"I don't expect you to understand. You're only a magnet for mishap, Miss Mitchell, while I am a magnet for sin.\" Both their lives had changed irrevocably six years ago....a night spent in an apple orchard...a night he couldn't seem to remember and a night she couldn't seem to forget...their entire relationship was based on a single night, a night she relived in her memories over and over again.... \"Beatrice.\" He smiled and handed her the apple. She stared at it entranced, as if it were a treasure. \"Come, Beatrice.\" He held his hand out to her. \"Have you ever lain next to a boy and looked up at the stars?\" He pulled her down to the blanket and watched her as they lay on their backs. \"No.\" He threaded his fingers through hers and placed the connection that was theirs on top of his heart. She could feel it beating slowly beneath her touch, and she took comfort in its steady rhythm. \"You're beautiful, Beatrice. Like a brown-eyed angel.\" \"Have you ever been kissed by a boy?\" She blushed deeply and shook her head. \"Then I'm glad I'm your first.\" She managed to close her eyes before his perfect mouth found hers. She floated. He kissed her as if he knew her, as if she belonged to him. His kiss was passionate and full of emotion, as if every fibre of his being had melted and spread itself on hs lips only to be given to her. Her heart skidded in her chest at the thought. She had never dared to hope for such a first kiss. Somehow, as the pressre of his lips lesssened, she felt like bursting into tears, knowing that she'd never be kissed like that again. He'd ruined her for anyone else. Forever. \"What are you thinking?\" She shifted herself so that she was curled up at his side, close to but not touching him with her body. \"I was thinking about how I waited for you. I waited and waited, and you never came.\" He smiled at her sadly. \"I'm sorry,...\" \"You're here now. Apparuit iam beatitudo vestra .\" \"I don't know what that means.\" She sounded shy. \"It means now your blessedness appears . But really, it should be now my blessedness appears . Now that you're here.\" He pulled her closet, snaking his arm beneath her neck and down to her waist where he splayed his hand, fingers wide, at the small of her back. \"For the rest of my life, I'll dream of hearing your voice breathe my name.\" In their orchard, which was Paradise, there were only two almost-lovers and no one and nothing else. But both of them have secrets...secrets that could tear them apart forever...maybe.....Will they survive the forces working against them? He released her hand and rolled onto his back, gazing up at the ceiling. \"I lost my soul, Julianne.\" \"What do you mean?\" \"You're looking at one of those precious few who have committed the sin unto death .\" \"How?\" Gabriel sighed. \"My name is the bitterest irony. I'm closer to a devil than an angel, and I'm beyond redemption because I've done unforgivable things.\" Can they love each other even with their dark sides?.... ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ This book was like a fresh breath of air after a long time in this genre. Absolutely loved it!! :)) It was full of sensuality without vulgarity . The author has woven a web of passion with his words and I was caught in it. A willing victim. I absolutely loved the fact that there was no F*cking in it. Loved it, loved it, loved it! Ever since f*cking became so hot and the in thing, all you could see in the stories was f*cking here, f*cking there, f*cking, f*cking everywhere!!! Aghhhhh!!!! Thank you author for not doing the same here. No, seriously, thank you! I'll admit that it's not a perfect story....nope, not at all. It has some pretentiousness involved, sometimes too much crying (by the heroine) and pain, the heroine (although intelligent and lovable) was too shy sometimes (made me want to roll my eyes a lot of times), and various other flaws I couldn't care less about. I didn't care about them...still don't. Because despite these flaws the story simply grabs you and sucks you in. This story seemed to draw a lot of inspiration from the Twilight series but still managed to create an originality of it's own. Kiss. Kiss. Kisses. Making Love. Where are these things in today's stories? They seem to have become extinct...like a lost art. This book revives that culture...a culture in which the journey leading to ecstasy was more important than the final act of experiencing ectasy itself. Where kissing could be more erotic than anything that comes after that. And I'm grateful for it. Filled with passionate kisses, sweet kisses, slow kisses, and desperate, urgent kisses...this book is bursting at the seams with sensuality in it's true sense, electric in it's potrayal of courtly love, eros, and simply true love....and the lost concept of \"making love\". This is a story of one man's salvation and one woman's sensual awakening..... [image error] Sometimes people, when left alone, can hear their own hatefulness for themselves. Sometimes goodness is enough to expose evil for what it really is. Lazy but curious hands caressed naked skin, exploring gently but chastely. Sighs commingled in the dark as two souls breathed as one. Two heartbeats synchronized when they recognized one another. And two troubled, conflicted minds finally came to rest. \"Your body and mine together. You came to me last night, Julianne. You came to my bed. Why did you do that? Why did you tell me you couldn't stay away? Because we're soulmates, just like Aristophanes described- one soul in two bodies. You're my missing half. You're my bashert .\" [image error] Julia was breathing his breath, hot and moist inside her mouth. He was her oxygen. She couldn't stop kissing long enough to truly inhale, and her head began to float. It made the feel of his lips more intense, so didn't fight it. She just gave in, licking and sucking and moving... Gabriel retreated minutely, breaking the kiss. He let his thumbs trace the curve of the naked skin at her waist. She inhaled quickly, and he hugged her close, wrappin his arms around her and feeling her breasts pressed up against him. \"You need to become accustomed to my lips, Julia, because I intend to kiss you a lot.\" [image error] Two bodies pressed tightly together in a lover's dance, eager with anticipation. \"I can feel your heart beating.\" she whispered. \"For you,\" he said , with a smoldering expression. \"When I am an old man and I can remember nothing else, I will remember this moment. The first time my eyes beheld an angel in the flesh. I will remember your body and your eyes, your beautiful face and breasts, your curves and this....\" \"I will remember your scent and your touch and how it felt to love you. But most of all, I will remember how it felt to gaze at true beauty, both inside and out. For you are fair, my beloved, in soul and in body, generous of spirit and generous of heart. And I will never see anything this side of heaven more beautiful than you.\" \"I love you. I just want to make you happy, to watch you smile. Forever.\" [image error] Lightness and darkness, innocence and experience, kissed and caressed in the warmth and acceptance created by their love. The dark angel whispered to his muse in Italian until she fell asleep in his arms, happier than she had ever been. She was loved. Gabriel Emerson was an unexpected delight, like a dark chocolate bar with a sweet surprise centre. :P There were so many surprises lurking beneath his boorish, pretentious exterior surface like (view spoiler) [he had a tattoo! A professor with a tattoo...something to wonder about, hmmm? (hide spoiler) ] ...his sweet talk and gentleness. So many surprises lurking beneath his handsome, ogle-worthy, sigh-worthy face and body...so many surprises in his soul... [image error] Oh, and did I say that I absolutely love this cover? Very sensual, very clever.....the picture conveying only a hint of something sinful , promising to fulfill your desire for a passionate love with only a suggestion of sensuality (which it more than fulfills...) All in all, it's a book with a blazing inferno of wild passion and love...tread and read carefully lest you get burned... \"Will you come back?\" Her voice was almost a whimper. Gabriel sighed deeply. \"I'm going to be thrown out of Paradise tomorrow, Beatrice. Our only hope is that you find me afterward. Look for me in Hell.\" He gently rolled her onto her back and placed his hands on either side of her hips, hovering over her-eyes wide-staring longingly and intensely down into her very soul. And then he brought his lips to hers.... Oh god of all such authors and all such sensual stories, thank you for making me stumble upon this one and buying it. Thank you for making me take notice of the cover and picking it up. Thank you! :P *sigh* Enjoy...*sigh.........* Oh, one more thing....The Professor had a high heel fetish... ;) ....she couldn't have known this, but Professor Emerson had a thing for women in exquisite high-heeled shoes. He swallowed noisily as he took in her breathtaking and obviously designer black stilettos. The Professor wanted to touch them... Now, enjoy! :)) [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Before i talk about the things that i didn't like in this story, i am going to mention what i liked: I liked the writing. There's a lot in this book that i will compare to \"fifty shades of grey\". The quality of the writing isn't one of them. In fact there are certain phrases that are beautifully written. So more's the pity for the route that the story took... Now, on the review, the beginning of this story had me a little scared...and i don't scare easily, but for the first pages it looked like i Before i talk about the things that i didn't like in this story, i am going to mention what i liked: I liked the writing. There's a lot in this book that i will compare to \"fifty shades of grey\". The quality of the writing isn't one of them. In fact there are certain phrases that are beautifully written. So more's the pity for the route that the story took... Now, on the review, the beginning of this story had me a little scared...and i don't scare easily, but for the first pages it looked like i was going to read another \"fifty shades of grey\", luckily without the sex.... Julianne is this annoying character who throughout the entire book is portrayed as....a very irritating, constantly blushing and biting her lip, always looking in the direction of her shoes, perfect, beautiful, full of compassion and virtue....saint!!!! Oh, and on this one, we have \"gods\" instead of \"goddesses\": \"She silently thanked the Gods of Graduate students for coming to her aid..just in case\"(pg 17) But on a far lesser scale. She's twenty three years old and she's shy....oh that's so sweet! You know, i'm shy or maybe i'm just a reserved kind of person. But when i talk to someone, i look him/her in the eyes. If someone is mean to me, i don't turn the other cheek. That is a behaviour that i - for my part _ have given up during high school, as a way to survive it, at least with some sanity. Because unless one, has a full \"group\" of white knights always at your beck and call, just waiting to rescue you, of your daily ordeals, that atittude will only transform you in a fu....ng doormat! But, oh wait, she's so good, and kind, that during most of the book she is entitled to her own sugared white knight in shining armour. Who, i might say, is as tiresome as she is. What Julia says about Paul: \"Even his skin was kind\"(pg 123) ahahahahah, not. Then there's Gabriel, the one with the name of the fallen angel...the dark and brooding hero with a twisted and tormented past, who really likes to nail himself to a..._jesus, this review just really makes me want to swear...a lot _...a cross. This one, is the opposite of Christian, boring, i want to hit you in the head with a very large piece of furniture, Grey.... Well he is conservative, and he starts out as a rich snob, and a little bossy, but he has a very good heart, who would simply shrivel and die, if by chance any of his actions, or words, would accidently manage to hurt his precious little flower/Beatrice/Julianne/Julia, also Known as Rabbit _ dont even get me started on this one _ or even duck.... Now, the precious part, reminds me a part that was kind of funny. Julianne refers to Gabriel as her \"precious\" _ the author really wanted to show her readers the extense of her literary knowledge. There's constant references to various literary pieces, that after awhile just becamed tiresome _ and then there's this \"tart\" who is referred to as \"Gollum\"...\"stay away from the precious..\" she would say. That was nice. But on and on, the characters kept saying and doing things, that were just unbelievable stupid: _this is kind an absurd thing to mention, since i really hope no children sets his eys on this story, but apparently things that children should know, Julia, isn't aware of them. For instance, when one breaks a piece of glass, one doesn't fall on his hands and knees trying to pick up the pieces! For heaven sake she's twenty three not three years old. An adult behaviour would be nice for a change! Then there's the constant weeping/crying throughout the book. Enough is enough. She wasn't raised in a convent. She's good. He's a demon. She's kind. He has lost his soul. On, and on...on how he doesn't deserve his brown eyed angel, because he has sinned. Because in the end he is a human man with vices, who has made mistakes in the past, and that feels, that for that he doesn't deserve this angel that he has placed up in a pedestal. I don't know why! There's even a scene where she behaves in the most atrocious way towards him. So after a while even their dialogues becamed tiresome_ i do keep using this word, a lot _ their sweetness, became...boring. And i couldn't wait to finish this story. Like i said in the beginning, i even liked the writing. But in the end, this turned out to be too mushy for my tastes. Half the pages, for this story, would be more than enough. ...more \"Tell me that you want me, or get out.\" Redemption, forgiveness, and love, love, love. That is what this story is about. Forgiving yourself and learning how to love an equally flawed human being with the same unconditional love that you are to show yourself. The two main characters mirror Dante and Beatrice, and the parallels are beautiful. This is not your typical romance. It is intellectual, poetic, intense, honest, and in my opinion, nothing short of brilliant. You don't see this type of depth \"Tell me that you want me, or get out.\" Redemption, forgiveness, and love, love, love. That is what this story is about. Forgiving yourself and learning how to love an equally flawed human being with the same unconditional love that you are to show yourself. The two main characters mirror Dante and Beatrice, and the parallels are beautiful. This is not your typical romance. It is intellectual, poetic, intense, honest, and in my opinion, nothing short of brilliant. You don't see this type of depth in many romances, and on that note, it's not for everyone. This isn't a light, breezy read. It's serious and thought-provoking, but not without laughs. It will make you think about real love and intimacy and what it really means to value it. It's also much more than romance. It's about personal redemption and the human condition. Here's an example: \"Sometimes people, when left alone, can hear their own hatefulness for themselves. Sometimes goodness is enough to expose evil for what it really is.\" This is a very difficult book for me to review because I loved so many different things about it, and it's so multifaceted. It's very, very emotional and close to impossible to put down. The author's profile states: \"I'm interested in the way literature can help us explore aspects of the human condition - particularly suffering, sex, love, faith, and redemption. In my writing, I combine all of these elements with the themes of redemption, forgiveness, and the transformative power of goodness.\" This is why I fell in love with this book and the author's work--this is a writer after my own heart. This is what I love about literature and why I'm so passionate about it, so I guess I'm completely smitten with and biased toward the writing style, tone, and content. Gabriel's Inferno demonstrates the above in all of its glory. If you want a smart romance with real substance, this is well worth your time. ...more It's time to meet the professor .... let me get my visuals \u2764\u2764\u2764 This review marks the second time I've this book, and although it didn't pack the same punch as the inaugural reading, Gabriel's Inferno will remain on my \"Favorite Books\" list. Professor Gabriel Emerson is my ultimate book boyfriend. Sylvain Reynard has created a romance which is unforgettable, beautiful, and mesmerizing. I was re-reading in preparation for the recently released third & final book in the trilogy, Gabriel's Redemption . I did a buddy read with the amazing Wendy ( Wendy's Though This review marks the second time I've this book, and although it didn't pack the same punch as the inaugural reading, Gabriel's Inferno will remain on my \"Favorite Books\" list. Professor Gabriel Emerson is my ultimate book boyfriend. Sylvain Reynard has created a romance which is unforgettable, beautiful, and mesmerizing. I was re-reading in preparation for the recently released third & final book in the trilogy, Gabriel's Redemption . I did a buddy read with the amazing Wendy ( Wendy's Thoughts ) we had a wonderful time analyzing characters, motives, and plot devices. I feel that this book would make a fine addition to any Book Club's roster! This book represents so many of the themes that I have a tendency to scoff at\u2026 Several of the principle elements are overplayed, over hyped, formulaic, & predictable in the Modern Romance Genre: The wealthy, emotionally scarred, alpha-male, over protective sex god\u2026 The nerdy, blushing, social outcast, low self-esteem virgin\u2026 He doesn't believe he's capable of love... She doesn't believe she's worthy of him\u2026 The power of love will save them both\u2026 So why do I LOVE this book? It truly is a beautiful romance. It's sweet. Almost too sweet at times. I adore the parallel of Dante / Gabriel. There's passion, but it's not hyper-sexual. The connection between Gabriel & Julia is believable and lovely. There is a clear character progression for both main characters. The book is filled with quirky humor\u2026 I believe that fans refer to the \"Snarky Narrator\" I have a personal connection as well. I have a Fine Arts degree with a minor in Art History. I've been educated in the texts and works of art which are heavily referenced in this book\u2026 Quite frankly, it's kind of an ego-stroke to constantly have my education validated with every turn of the page. That's not common in this genre. Though, I don't think that the average reader would feel alienated by the academic undertones of the predominant themes. I often find myself recommending Gabriel's Inferno to readers interested in romance who are weary of Erotica... Which is an odd request for me to get, considering that I am a Professional Reader of Erotica... This book is filled with love and passion, and while I generally pass on \"deflowering\" stories, I will keep a place in my romantic little heart for this book. Some of My Favorite Moments: (view spoiler) [ I'd also like to direct you to my status updates for this for this book, as they have some lovely photos to accompany several of the quotes. She envisioned him having a cow upon the discovery, literally\u2014lying down on the beautiful Persian rug that graced his office and painfully and loudly giving birth to a calf. How could someone with an angelic name be so cruel? How could a voice so melodic be so harsh? Julia had been evicted from the realm of the surprised and relocated right into the land of the astonished. She really was very pretty when she smiled. He would have to see to it that she smiled more often, purely for aesthetic reasons. Miss Mitchell was a Calamity Jane, a vortex of vexation. She\u2019d had a remarkable string of misadventures, starting with her inability to go to Harvard, and things seemed to fall apart in her wake\u2014including his calm and collected disposition. ...she couldn't have known this, but Professor Emerson had a thing for women in exquisite high-heeled shoes... Miss Mitchell had a lovely voice, it was true, but Miss Mitchell speaking Italian was something celestial. Her ruby mouth opening and closing, the delicate way she almost sang the words, her tongue peeking out to wet her lips from time to time\u2026Professor Emerson had to remind himself to close his mouth after it had dropped open. Meanwhile, Mr. Emerson had been adjusting himself under the table because the sight of Miss Mitchell tasting wine was the most erotic thing he\u2019d ever witnessed. \u201cYou blossom under kindness, don\u2019t you? Like a rose\u201d He was a rational agent. He wore clothes to cover his nakedness, he drove a car, and he ate with a knife and a fork and a linen napkin. He was gainfully employed in a job that required intellectual ability and acuity. He controlled his sexual urges through various civilized means and would never take a woman against her will. Nevertheless, as he stared at Miss Mitchell and Paul, he realized that he was an animal. Something primitive. Something feral. And something made him want to go over there and rip Paul\u2019s hands from his body and carry Miss Mitchell off. To kiss her senseless, move his lips to her neck, and claim her. What the fuck? He ... picked up her knapsack, effortlessly swinging it to his shoulder. \u201cThis is too heavy a burden for you.\u201d He said, gazing into her eyes, choosing every word carefully. \u201cLet me carry it for a while.\u201d \u201cI don\u2019t expect you to understand. You\u2019re only a magnet for mishap, Miss Mitchell, while I am a magnet for sin.\u201d His kiss was passionate and full of emotion, as if every fiber of his being had melted and spread itself on his lips only to be given to her. \u201cDo you have to leave?\u201d she whispered back, running her hands hesitantly over his chest, up and down and back and forth. \u201cYes, but not tonight.\u201d \u201cWill you come back?\u201d Her voice was almost a whimper. Gabriel sighed deeply. \u201cI\u2019m going to be thrown out of Paradise tomorrow, Beatrice. Our only hope is that you find me afterward. Look for me in Hell.\u201d Gabriel appeared to be the ideal poker player: impassive, unemotional, cold. Oh, so very cold. Not merely cool, like a breeze, or water from a stream in the autumn, but cold. Cold like a rock against your skin in the shade of the setting sun. \u201cI\u2019m trying to keep the wolves at bay,\u201d he said, his voice low. A lion in charge of wolves , she thought. How convenient . When everyone in the whole world believes one thing and you are the only one who believes differently, it\u2019s very tempting to assimilate. All Julia would have to do would be to forget, to deny, to suppress. Then she would be just like everyone else. \u201cI don\u2019t mean to be all\u2026St. Francis of Assisi or something, but anyone can shout obscenities. Why should I become like her? Why not think that sometimes\u2014just sometimes\u2014you can overcome evil with silence? And let people hear their hatefulness in their own ears, without distraction. Maybe goodness is enough to expose evil for what it really is, sometimes. Rather than trying to stop evil with more evil. Not that I\u2019m good. I don\u2019t think that I\u2019m good.\u201d She was undoing him slowly, bit by bit, and he did not understand how. He would wonder if they were close enough, would their hearts beat synchronously\u2026 or was that simply a poet\u2019s fancy? \u201cI\u2019ve always had a terrible weakness for beautiful but sad things\u201d My Gabriel . He imagined her voice laving across his name the way a lover\u2019s tongue moves across the skin\u2026 \u201cIt\u2019s over ten dollars a bottle,\u201d she whispered, not wishing to embarrass Gabriel or herself with loud incredulity. \u201cBut it\u2019s the best. And wouldn't you rather drink one bottle of this rather than two bottles of Budweiser, which really is like drinking appalling bath water?\u201d I can only assume that all bath water would be appalling to drink, Professor Emerson, but I\u2019ll take your word for it. Sicko. Julia caught her breath. He didn't look drunk now. He looked remarkably lucid, and his eyes were caressing her, touching her, spending longer than was appropriate on the expanse of her chest. He began licking his lips. Here comes the seductive smile\u2026in five, four, three, two, one\u2026swoon. (It was a good thing that in her current mood she was swoon-proof.) Julia let go of him instantly and backed up, averting her eyes, for in truth, looking into the radiance of that smile was like staring into the sun. \u201cAngelfucker.\u201d She frowned. \u201cWhy do you keep calling him that?\u201d \u201cBecause that\u2019s what he is, Miss Mitchell. Or rather, what he hopes he will become. Over my dead body. You tell him that\u2014tell him he fucks with the angel at his peril.\u201d She\u2019d seen him drunk before, of course, and knew that his drunkenness vacillated between moments of absolute clarity and complete lunacy. Perhaps it was the fact that in that one question she realized that he no longer viewed her as Beatrice, and all her realized hopes and dreams just fucking died in their infancy. Sometimes people, when left alone, can hear their own hatefulness for themselves. Sometimes goodness is enough to expose evil for what it really is. For despite all her defiance, there was a flame in her that recognized its twin in Gabriel. And that flame could not be extinguished, unless Julia was willing to extinguish a part of herself. \u201cHaven\u2019t you ever been lonely, Miss Mitchell? Haven\u2019t you ever ached for companionship, even if it\u2019s only carnal and temporary? Sometimes it\u2019s all you can get. And so you take it and you\u2019re grateful for it, while recognizing it for what it is, because you have no other choice . Instead of being so high-handed and self-righteous in your assessment of Dante\u2019s lifestyle, you should try having a little compassion\u201d \u201cThey\u2019re not friends\u2014they\u2019re pelvic affiliates. \u201d Julia shook as soon as she heard the tone of his voice. It was deceptively calm and soft, like silk brushing across bare skin. But the undertone was steel and ice. \u201cNeither of us has a monopoly on delusions. Our only hope is to take time to discover who we really are and decide if that\u2019s a reality we both can live with. I've had enough vexation with you to last a lifetime, and I\u2019m putting an end to it tonight.\u201d \u201cI have no wish to consume you, but I won\u2019t lie and say that I\u2019m not attracted to your luminosity. If I am the darkness, then you are the stars. In fact, I\u2019m quite taken by la luce della tua umilitate .\u201d Lazy but curious hands caressed naked skin, exploring gently but chastely. Sighs commingled in the dark as two souls breathed as one. Two heartbeats synchronized when they recognized one another. And two troubled, conflicted minds finally came to rest. \u201cYou were cruel.\u201d \u201cSo were you.\u201d \u201cYou hurt me.\u201d \u201cAnd you hurt me. Is revenge everything you dreamed it might be?\u201d Gabriel continued whispering, his warm breath huffing across her cheek. \u201cYou've transformed from a rabbit into a furious kitten. Well, you scratched me deeply today, my kitten. You drew blood with every word. Are you happy now? Now that you've humiliated me in front of my students by reciting all my secret sins? It was a true bonfire of the vanities, with you lighting the flame.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m not the one with the memory problem. You think I\u2019m happy? You think this is what I want? I\u2019m miserable . To finally see you after all these years and to see you like this? I don\u2019t even recognize you!\u201d \u201cI tried to stay away\u2026\u201d Julia\u2019s voice was hesitant, \u201c\u2026but I couldn't.\u201d \u201cI tried not to lick chocolate off your fingers. But I couldn't.\u201d They cared for one another, Julia thought, but their care was cool and small, like a distant star. Gabriel\u2019s love would burn hot like the sun, if he was even capable of loving someone. \u201cI know that I am deeply, deeply flawed. But I want to know you, just you, as you are. I want you to be yourself, and yes, Julianne, I know you\u2019re more than just a dream. Your reality is far more beautiful and alluring than any dream. I\u2019d choose you over the dream any time.\u201d \u201cYour body and mine together. You came to me last night, Julianne. You came to my bed. Why did you do that? Why did you tell me you couldn't stay away? Because we\u2019re soul mates, just like Aristophanes described\u2014one soul in two bodies. You\u2019re my missing half. You\u2019re my bashert .\u201d \u201c Bashert ? Do you even know what that means? Bashert is bashert , Gabriel; destiny is destiny . It can mean anything you want, and it doesn't have to mean me.\u201d He smiled at her widely. \u201cYour linguistic knowledge constantly surprises me.\u201d \u201cYou don\u2019t even know me.\u201d \u201cI know more about you than you think and the rest I wish to learn. Teach me, Beatrice. I\u2019ll enroll in your university as your student. Teach me how to care for you.\u201d His voice was so pained and so sincere, her heart almost snapped under the weight of it. \u201cYou need to become accustomed to my lips, Julia, because I intend to kiss you a lot.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m sorry I disappointed you. I wish I was the knight rather than the dragon. But I\u2019m not.\u201d He pulled back to stare deeply into her eyes. \u201cEverything is up to you. You can rescue me or banish me with a single word.\u201d Did the Clarks always speak in extended metaphors like metaphysical poets? Julia would have needed a literary criticism class in order to interpret their allusions. \u201cI have a vivid and detailed imagination when it comes to you.\u201d This is what comes of years of unbridled lust\u2014now you don\u2019t even have the ability to court her like a gentleman. You want to make love to this girl without lapsing into fucking, but can you? Can you be sexually involved with her without treating her like a pretty toy that has been constructed solely for your carnal satisfaction? Can you love without sin? \u201cAre you all right?\u201d he whispered against her mouth. \u201cYou\u2019re still here.\u201d \u201cI won\u2019t leave you again without saying good-bye. Can\u2019t you sleep?\u201d \u201cI thought this was a dream.\u201d Gabriel smiled at her in the darkness. \u201cOnly for me.\u201d \u201cYou\u2019re gorgeous, Gabriel. You always were, you know.\u201d \u201cNature\u2019s cruelty\u2014the fallen angel retains his beauty. But I\u2019m ugly on the inside.\u201d \u201cI don\u2019t believe in fairy tales,\u201d she breathed. \u201cI\u2019d like to make you believe.\u201d He leaned over and kissed her forehead. \u201cThe contours of sinew, muscle and veins, symmetry and balance, idealized proportion, and classical lines would be breathtaking even to the casual observer. But Julia was anything but a casual observer, for she had spent the entire night with this very body in her bed, spooning her close and playing with her hair. And this body was attached to a damn fine mind and a very deep, passionate soul. \u201cLook at him. A vest and a pocket watch?\u201d muttered Paul, shaking his head. \u201cHow old is this guy? I bet he has a personal portrait in his attic that\u2019s aging rather rapidly.\u201d \u201cBut what about the next time the darkness comes? What will you do?\u201d Gabriel stared at her. \u201cI thought I\u2019d made myself clear. You dispel the darkness, Beatrice.\u201d He cleared his throat. \u201cJulianne.\u201d \u201cBeing without you, Julianne, is like enduring an endless night without stars.\u201d More ! his body ordered him. Closer. Faster. Tighter. More. More. More . He pressed his lips to her hands, her lips, her throat. She was undoing him little by little, and when she smiled or laughed he thought he would catch fire. He pressed his lips to hers reverently. \u201cYou\u2019re killing me.\u201d She tossed her hair back and grinned. \u201cBut it will be a sweet, sweet death.\u201d \u201cIt was always you, Gabriel.\u201d He cupped her face in his hands and kissed her gently, as if his soul was begging to be joined to hers. \u201cIt was always you, Julianne. Only you.\u201d He held her and breathed in her comfort. All of a sudden, he could see the future. He had hope. He had faith that maybe, just maybe, when she knew everything, she would look at him with those big, brown eyes and say that she still wanted him. \u201cI don\u2019t remember everything, but I remember thinking that you were very beautiful. Your hair, your face, your mouth. Sonnets could be written about your mouth, Julianne. I ached to kiss it from the moment I saw you.\u201d \u201cI want to make love to you because I care about you. I want to worship your naked body with my own and learn all of your secrets. I want to please you, not for minutes, but for hours and even days. I want to see you arch your back in ecstasy and look into your eyes when I make you come.\u201d \u201cI don\u2019t deserve you,\u201d he whispered. \u201cMaybe we don\u2019t deserve each other, but I can choose who I love. And I choose you.\u201d \u201cYou strip me bare. You see through everything. You are the only one who has ever known everything and still wanted me. Only you, my beloved.\u201d \u201cJulianne, if one were doing a cost-benefit analysis, I would be a high-cost, high-risk, low-benefit venture.\u201d \u201cNonsense. I don\u2019t see you that way at all.\u201d He gave her a half-smile. \u201cOnly because you are the soul of forgiveness and compassion. Although I must admit, my best qualities and talents have heretofore remained hidden.\u201d Now his voice was husky, and the familiar spark of sensuality lit his blue eyes. \u201cBut I look forward to placing them entirely at your service again and again and again, ad infinitum , until you are weary of both them and me. And entirely, blissfully sated.\u201d \u201cCan you tolerate a detour? The Duomo is beautiful by night, and I\u2019I've never kissed you in its shadow.\u201d He smiled and embraced her softly. \u201cI want to explore your senses\u2014sound, taste, sight, touch. I want to take my time arousing and exciting you.\u201d He lowered his voice. \u201cBut most of all, I want to teach your body to recognize the man who worships you, just by my touch.\u201d He was sweetness and wet warmth, hunger and passionate need, love and devotion. And his kiss pressed itself to her very soul, so that even the tips of her toes felt his adoration and desire. He unzipped her dress slowly, staring deeply into her eyes. Then he gently pushed the green silk off her shoulders. It made a sighing sound as it floated to the floor, as if it too, had been seduced by him. \u201cWhen I am an old man and I can remember nothing else, I will remember this moment. The first time my eyes beheld an angel in the flesh.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m glad I\u2019m your first.\u201d She smiled widely at his declaration. \u201cI want you to be my last, Gabriel\u201d \u201cI\u2019ll give you anything. My body, my soul, take them. Take everything.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more THIS IS BLOODY FUCKING TWILIGHT FAN FICTION. NO DEAL WITH THE GOD DAMN DEVIL CHANGES THAT. 5 I'm Glad I'm Your First Stars! The reread was even better! I firmly believe that no matter how many times you reread a book, it's never the same reading experience as before. Each reread holds a different perspective; a separate opportunity to view the story in a new light. I knew when starting this that all the secrets, lies, and questions wouldn't be so frustrating to read because I know why characters are the way they are and I know the outcomes. I could truly just sit back and enjoy....and b 5 I'm Glad I'm Your First Stars! The reread was even better! I firmly believe that no matter how many times you reread a book, it's never the same reading experience as before. Each reread holds a different perspective; a separate opportunity to view the story in a new light. I knew when starting this that all the secrets, lies, and questions wouldn't be so frustrating to read because I know why characters are the way they are and I know the outcomes. I could truly just sit back and enjoy....and boy did I enjoy reacquainting myself with the Professor! \"Scars might heal and we might forget about them in time, but they're permanent. Not even Jesus lost his scars.\" Gabriel's Inferno is a book that has everything I want in a book. This story is: sexy, sweet, tender, romantic, dark, light, humorous, emotional, and honestly just pretty much freaking perfect! What makes this book stand out amongst all the others is the way you get pulled into Julia and Gabriel's fictional world. A world filled with passion + romance that is so beautifully written I can't possible squeeze all passages that I want to into this review. What's it all about? Gabriel is Julia's professor in her Dante seminar, and this is where the forbidden element comes in. It's forbidden to fraternize, yet something about Julia is irresistible to Gabriel. She seems familiar to him, and he doesn't understand why. Yes, this story is technically a student/teacher romance, but I never once looked at it that way. The beautiful love story was so perfect that you don't have to have the forbidden aspect to make this book good...although it didn't hurt to add some forbidden fruit. Gabriel is one of my all-time favorite heroes! EVER! I love him so much and I honestly wish I could marry him right now. Sigh. He is possessive, pretentious, arrogant, passionate, and just freaking alpha male awesome. Gabriel is one of those characters that has many secrets that you are just dying to uncover. He has a painful past from his childhood to adulthood and his life has been filled with struggle and pain. My heart just broke for my poor Gabriel...his love for Julia was the BEST thing that ever happened to him, and I loved reading every sentence of it! \"I\u2019m sorry I disappointed you. I wish I was the knight rather than the dragon. But I\u2019m not.\u201d He pulled back to stare deeply into her eyes. \u201cEverything is up to you. You can rescue me or banish me with a single word.\" Julia is a shy but strong heroine. While she frustrated me at times, she does have a backbone when the time calls for it; I just wish she would be a little bit stronger sometimes. Her most endearing quality is that she always looks for the good in people and if that doesn't work she lets them see their evil for what it is. Gabriel and Julia truly are each others saving grace. \"The brown-eyes angel was weeping over the demon. The angel wept because she was grieved at the mere thought of someone hurting him\" I loved the modern day spin off of Beatrice and Dante that this book offered. This book is written in a 3rd POV that I loved, for it offered a cast of characters thoughts. There are multiple themes presented within the story \u2014 redemption and love being the main points. In conclusion, I fell in love with this story the first time around, and I fell just as much in love with it the 2nd time around. Beautiful. \"When I am an old man and I can remember nothing else, I will remember this moment. The first time my eyes beheld an angel in the flesh. \u201cI will remember your body and your eyes, your beautiful face and breasts, your curves and this.\u201d \u201cI will remember your scent and your touch and how it felt to love you. But most of all, I will remember how it felt to gaze at true beauty, both inside and out. For you are fair, my beloved, in soul and in body, generous of spirit and generous of heart. And I will never see anything this side of heaven more beautiful than you.\" ...more 5 Surprisingly Amazing Stars! Julia and Gabriel shared a beautifully innocent night almost a few years ago in the woods behind his parents house. Neither of them forgot it and neither and they didn\u2019t saw each other or heard anything about each trough the following years. Now, six years late they met each other again: only now she is a graduate student and he is the Dante\u2019s Specialist professor. So, yes, their relationship is completely forbidden. But that isn\u2019t the worst of them all, Gabriel is 5 Surprisingly Amazing Stars! Julia and Gabriel shared a beautifully innocent night almost a few years ago in the woods behind his parents house. Neither of them forgot it and neither and they didn\u2019t saw each other or heard anything about each trough the following years. Now, six years late they met each other again: only now she is a graduate student and he is the Dante\u2019s Specialist professor. So, yes, their relationship is completely forbidden. But that isn\u2019t the worst of them all, Gabriel is a broken man with an even more broken past and he as much as he tries he can\u2019t expurgate his ghosts. So he seeks refuge in dark vices, so when Julia\u2019s kindness hits him he doesn\u2019t know how to deal with it. He doesn\u2019t even know if he can have human feelings anymore. There are too much secrets, too much darkness and a lot to overcome between these two, so their road isn\u2019t definitely going to be an easy one. This was a pretty good surprise. I was expecting a book with much more steam and somewhat less story like a lot of successful series we\u2019ve been seeing but this had so much more content and depth. This was extremely romantic at some points and you can really connect with the characters. Without a doubt, a \u201cno-you-can\u2019t-miss-this\u201d series. ...more This book holds a special place in my heart because of its characters and its plot. It was the right book at the right time, and I do hope that it will be the same for all its writers. The characters are so well developed that you'll believe that you actually know them in real life; if you are looking for a journey with them, you've found the perfect book for you. There are many universal themes in this story: becoming (and being) a parent, but also being a daughter/son; faith; redemption. You'll f This book holds a special place in my heart because of its characters and its plot. It was the right book at the right time, and I do hope that it will be the same for all its writers. The characters are so well developed that you'll believe that you actually know them in real life; if you are looking for a journey with them, you've found the perfect book for you. There are many universal themes in this story: becoming (and being) a parent, but also being a daughter/son; faith; redemption. You'll find that you have many things in common not only with the main characters, but also with the literary characters so well presented in the book, although they lived many centuries ago. But even if you think that books are just \"well written, or badly written,\" as Oscar Wilde stated, this book is for you. SR's writing style is an art work. I'm Italian, but reading SR's work I forgot that I was reading in a foreign language: his prose is clear and perfectly polished. Every single word elicits a different feeling and you'll be surprised to smile, laugh, think and cry in the same page. - Raum http://myreadinglounge.blogspot.com ...more Since it took me 3 weeks to finish this book, I can\u2019t blame my mood-at-time-of-reading for my opinion. It failed to stir any emotions in me. First, I didn\u2019t like the heroine. The author tried to create an innocent virgin woman and instead I felt like I was reading about a pre-teen girl. Even Paul and Gabriel explained things to her as if she was 12 years-old. She even expected that the hero after only one night and years without seeing each other would remember her and tell her he loved her (wth Since it took me 3 weeks to finish this book, I can\u2019t blame my mood-at-time-of-reading for my opinion. It failed to stir any emotions in me. First, I didn\u2019t like the heroine. The author tried to create an innocent virgin woman and instead I felt like I was reading about a pre-teen girl. Even Paul and Gabriel explained things to her as if she was 12 years-old. She even expected that the hero after only one night and years without seeing each other would remember her and tell her he loved her (wth?). Then there was the hero and his stiff academic talking style, the repetitive H/h thoughts, the cheesy love declarations. The romance was boring, even the final and only one sex scene was incredibly boring. I do hope the sequel will be better. HERO type is not defined, former alcoholic and drug user, current university professor and well-known Dante specialist, rude and cold with everybody except with the heroine when he discovers she\u2019s the same girl that saved him one night a long time ago. SCENES/CONTENT: few/hot GENRE/TONE: contemporary/drama LENGTH: 573 pages ...more", "Title": "Gabriel's Inferno"},
