{"Comments": "Seriously best <---A>Harlan Coben</---A> novel ever! Loved this book! Classic Coben, twists and turns and will leave you guessing until the last page! Highly recommend. Awesome book :) This was my first Harlan Coben thriller and one of my two favourites. (I have now read them all except one of the out-of-print ones). I won't rehash the plot, you can get that elsewhere. What I will say is that I love the way in which Coben keeps up the momentum. Unlike some authors, he doesn't save up his twists for the end, he scatters them liberally throughout the book. Nearly every chapter ends with a surprise, keeping the reader waiting until he returns to it later. He uses this cliff-hanger This was my first Harlan Coben thriller and one of my two favourites. (I have now read them all except one of the out-of-print ones). I won't rehash the plot, you can get that elsewhere. What I will say is that I love the way in which Coben keeps up the momentum. Unlike some authors, he doesn't save up his twists for the end, he scatters them liberally throughout the book. Nearly every chapter ends with a surprise, keeping the reader waiting until he returns to it later. He uses this cliff-hanger/cutaway approach to very good effect. And he still manages a big twist at the end (although I had a vague sense that it was coming). As one who has been heavily influenced by Coben's style, I can say that he is the master of the lostinabook style. ...more \u201cThe best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the injury.\u201d ----Marcus Aurelius Harlan Coben,<---M> an international bestselling author</---M>, has penned a hypnotizing crime thriller, <+++>The Innocent</+++> in which the author has spun a tale about an ex-con whose after prison life has turned out to be surprisingly good, but unfortunately his dream life threatens to come crashing down when a video featuring his wife is sent to his phone by his wife, and parallely, one murder occurs after another and young cop i \u201cThe best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the injury.\u201d ----Marcus Aurelius Harlan Coben, an international bestselling author, has penned a hypnotizing crime thriller, <+++>The Innocent</+++> in which the author has spun a tale about an ex-con whose after prison life has turned out to be surprisingly good, but unfortunately his dream life threatens to come crashing down when a video featuring his wife is sent to his phone by his wife, and parallely, one murder occurs after another and young cop is trying to connecting the dots of these murders while another teenager tries to dig up the past of her murdered mother and must punish her killers. Synopsis: The horror of one night is forever etched in <---C>Matt Hunter</---C>\u2019s memory: the night he innocently tried to break up a fight\u2014and ended up a killer. Now, nine years after his release from prison, his innocence long forgotten, he\u2019s an ex-con who takes nothing for granted. With his wife, Olivia, pregnant and the two of them closing on a house in his home town, things are looking up. Until the day Matt gets a shocking, inexplicable video call from Olivia\u2019s phone. And in an instant, the unraveling begins. A mysterious man who begins tailing Matt turns up dead.<---F> A beloved nun is murdered</---F>. And local and federal authorities--including homicide investigator, Loren Muse, a childhood schoolmate of Matt\u2019s with a troubled past of her own-- see all signs pointing to a former criminal with one murder already under his belt: Matt Hunter. Unwilling to lose everything for a second time, Matt and Olivia are forced outside the law in a desperate attempt to save their future together. An electrifying thrill-ride of a novel that peeks behind the white picket fences of suburbia, THE INNOCENT is at once a twisting, turning, emotionally-charged story, and a compelling tale of the choices we make and the repercussions that never leave us. Matt Hunter, the most unfortunate man, whose simple idea to save his friend from getting beaten up by some rowdy boys, lands him up in a prison, thereby forcing him to kiss goodbye to his average life and goals. Whereas Matt's post-prison life treats him well, as he lands up a job in his late elder brother's firm and says his marital vows to a wonderful person like Olivia, who eventually becomes pregnant. But all of a sudden, it seems that bad luck won't stop following Matt, when an unpleasant video makes a way to his phone straight from his wife's number, followed by a phone call from the man who claims indecent things about his wife's current whereabouts. Shocked Matt pledges to find the truth as well as the identity of the strange man with the help of a private detective. While on the background, a teenager is looking for her mother's old life, who has been murdered by a cruel man and wants to bring justice to her killer and a female homicide cop with a distasteful past is investigating the murder of a nun with silicon breasts. While Matt, on the other hand, must keep him safe to unravel the brain twisting puzzle that his wife, Olivia laid out for him. Harlan Coben manages to hit bull's eye with this particular book, where the plot thickens along with the intensity of the mystery, reading which the readers are bound to feel that edgy tension that will grasp them by their minds, souls and hearts. This book is spine chillingly addictive and highly absorbing, and right from the very first page, I was sucked right into the depth of the story line, and could not let myself get out from that rush of this story. The book is a must read for one and all, be the reader a crime thriller fan or not, but one must grab a copy of this book for sure, as the story not only unravels with a mystery but also with the best of human emotions and twists that will leave the readers anxious as well as surprised to their very core till the very end. The chapters end with a complex challenge that will beg the readers to turn the next page and so on. The author's writing is something, as the author has penned in an arresting manner and it felt like the author knows how to lure his readers into such an engrossing thriller. The narrative is both sentimental and appealing enough to make the readers stick to the pages of this book like a moth stuck on a glowing light bulb. The pacing is extremely fast and the whole story unravels at the speed of some unpredictably wild tornado although it feels deeply satisfying after experiencing Corben's tornado, meaning the book! There are so many layers and unpredictable twists that come out of nowhere that will make the readers feel like getting slapped real hard right on their face all-of-a-sudden, although that slap feels good and fits perfectly with the mood and the flow of the story line. The author keeps major plot-twisters till the climax that is bound to throw the readers off the edges of their seats. The mystery reads like a roller coaster ride filled with full of anticipative moments and adrenaline rushing scenes. The pace of the revelation of the truth is smooth and will occur gradually through the backstories and only after the readers are well accustomed with the story line. The characters shine like a gem through their flaws, strength and humanity. The characters are real to their very core and will constantly make the readers comprehend with their demeanor. The main character, Matt is an excellent character, who has flaws yet manages to be a lead an ideal life style despite of the scars in his character certificate. Matt's back story shapes him up into a thoughtful human being and so the readers will easily be able to connect with him. His journey and his investigation will keep the readers rooted till the very end. In a nutshell, this is an enthralling book with a mystery so well concocted that even the seasoned crime readers can't be able to figure out the major twists and will eventually be left fooled by the innocent characters. Verdict: One heck of a page turning thriller! ...more You are Harlan Coben and you are a writer. You are tired of your series character and you have a contract to deliver a book. You decide to write a stand alone book about a guy who can't become a lawyer because he killed some guy at a fraternity party. So your character becomes a paralegal whose practice is only eclipsed by Danny Devito playing Deck Shifflet, the \"paralawyer\" in The Rainmaker. You aren't a lawyer so you don't know how utterly improbable this is. Your character marries a wonderful You are Harlan Coben and you are a writer. You are tired of your series character and you have a contract to deliver a book. You decide to write a stand alone book about a guy who can't become a lawyer because he killed some guy at a fraternity party. So your character becomes a paralegal whose practice is only eclipsed by Danny Devito playing Deck Shifflet, the \"paralawyer\" in The Rainmaker. You aren't a lawyer so you don't know how utterly improbable this is. Your character marries a wonderful girl, who has a past worse than your protagonist. You offer lots of plot twists, but with fifty pages to go and the bad guys dead, you don't use them up. So you spend fifty pages showing off how clever you are. You are so clever that you try to write the book in second person, present tense. Your editor stops you, but you manage to open and close it in the second person. In the middle you write third person past tense from differing points of view. You consider yourself daring. Others are just annoyed at your waste of talent and waste of their time. They know you can do much better. ...more This was my first book read by this author and I gotta say I was not disappointed. I loved the whole plot and idea of the story. We start out with our main character Matt and see how he nearly destroys his life as a young man and we watch how he tries to make something better of himself despite the odds. And then he gets thrown into a whole new mystery. There is a big cast of characters and it takes a bit to familiarize yourself with all of them. But once you do they begin to unfold a bit more be This was my first book read by this author and I gotta say I was not disappointed. I loved the whole plot and idea of the story. We start out with our main character Matt and see how he nearly destroys his life as a young man and we watch how he tries to make something better of himself despite the odds. And then he gets thrown into a whole new mystery. There is a big cast of characters and it takes a bit to familiarize yourself with all of them. But once you do they begin to unfold a bit more becoming a bit more realistic. I feel like Coben can create a mean character and I love that. There were a few I loved and a few I hated as well. But I won't get into that in this review so as not to give away too much. The flow of the story was phenomenal from the prologue to the epilogue. I was completely consumed right from the start. And the twists in the story were excellent IMO. So for a first read it was really good. I look forward to many more Coben books in the future. ...more Once again, a fast-paced edge of your seat thriller by Coben! The Innocent is about an ex-con named Matt Hunter who accidentally killed a man while trying to break up a fight. Now many years later he's released from prison and starting a new life, working as a paralegal at a law firm, he marries the love of his life, Olivia, and they're expecting their first child. But he finds out later that his wife doesn't seem to be exactly who she says she is, he receives a strange video on his cell phone o Once again, a fast-paced edge of your seat thriller by Coben! The Innocent is about an ex-con named Matt Hunter who accidentally killed a man while trying to break up a fight. Now many years later he's released from prison and starting a new life, working as a paralegal at a law firm, he marries the love of his life, Olivia, and they're expecting their first child. But he finds out later that his wife doesn't seem to be exactly who she says she is, he receives a strange video on his cell phone on a woman who appears to be his wife. So Matt takes matters into his own hands to find out about Olivia's dark past. For a while some of the characters you might consider minor characters, but as the book progresses you'll say to yourself, I should have paid more attention to that character! The first half of the book starts out kind of slow but after a few chapters I was up past my bedtime reading it! By the end I was totally blown away, just what you'd expect from Harlan Coben! ...more Hmmm. Not a bad book by any means, but having got to the end I'm still not one hundred percent clear on what happened. There were an awful lot of people, an awful lot of interwoven motives, and the result was like a seriously bad knot on my six year old's shoelaces that I can't seem to unpick. Also, I had difficulty swallowing the central change-of-identity...the complete personality and life change felt unlikely, somehow. On the other hand, Coben writes extremely well - the book is easy to read Hmmm. Not a bad book by any means, but having got to the end I'm still not one hundred percent clear on what happened. There were an awful lot of people, an awful lot of interwoven motives, and the result was like a seriously bad knot on my six year old's shoelaces that I can't seem to unpick. Also, I had difficulty swallowing the central change-of-identity...the complete personality and life change felt unlikely, somehow. On the other hand, Coben writes extremely well - the book is easy to read, full of interesting characters, and great dialogue. The action starts straight away and keeps going throughout. Some sections definitely had me on the edge of my seat. If I have a criticism on style, it's that many of the male law-enforcement characters seemed rather similar, becoming one amorphous mass of paunchy middle-aged wisecracking world-weary smugness (at least in my head). Oh, and I guessed the final 'twist', but that's about the only bit I did guess. ...more Matt Hunter is doing fine until he accidentally kills a fellow college student during a drunken brawl and goes to prison for 4 years. Now, 9 years after his release Matt is happily married to Olivia, expecting a baby, working as a paralegal, and looking to buy a house in his New Jersey home town. He's also a big support to his sister-in-law Marsha and his nephews since his brother recently died. And then Matt's life starts to unravel. A mysterious nun - with ties to Las Vegas - is murdered, and Matt Hunter is doing fine until he accidentally kills a fellow college student during a drunken brawl and goes to prison for 4 years. Now, 9 years after his release Matt is happily married to Olivia, expecting a baby, working as a paralegal, and looking to buy a house in his New Jersey home town. He's also a big support to his sister-in-law Marsha and his nephews since his brother recently died. And then Matt's life starts to unravel. A mysterious nun - with ties to Las Vegas - is murdered, and it's found she recently made a phone call to Marsha's house. While Olivia is at a conference in Boston Matt receives photos from her phone showing her dressed as a hooker in the company of a black-haired man, but Olivia denies everything. Matt tracks down the black-haired man - also from Las Vegas - who soon turns up dead. As the dead bodies pile up local investigators as well as FBI agents from Las Vegas look to Matt, the ex-con, as a likely suspect. Determined not to go back to prison Matt embarks on his own investigation, but everyone in this story has secrets to keep and Matt and his family are soon in danger. There are a lot of characters in the book - parents, thugs, strippers, law enforcement agents, private detectives, family, friends, etc. - which can be confusing, but most are decently enough developed. And the story is a page-turner as we go from the quiet streets of the suburbs to the roiling sex clubs of Las Vegas. Some of the twists in the story are telegraphed but I didn't anticipate all the surprises toward the end. All in all a good read. ...more It's hard to sum up exactly how I feel about this book. I had been hearing for months about how amazing Harlan Coben is, and I was able to get my hands on this novel at a used book sale. So I bought it and I really enjoyed it, for the most part. The novel follows a man named Matt Hunter. He's had a rough past, even spending some time in prison. And one day, all of a sudden his world begins to fall apart. He gets a text message of a video of what appears to be his wife, in a hotel room with anoth It's hard to sum up exactly how I feel about this book. I had been hearing for months about how amazing Harlan Coben is, and I was able to get my hands on this novel at a used book sale. So I bought it and I really enjoyed it, for the most part. The novel follows a man named Matt Hunter. He's had a rough past, even spending some time in prison. And one day, all of a sudden his world begins to fall apart. He gets a text message of a video of what appears to be his wife, in a hotel room with another man. After he gets the text a series of events follows, with twists and turns you wouldn't believe. Something in me, just couldn't quite give this 5 stars. I think maybe it was the fact I didn't connect to the characters. I wanted to know the ending, but I wasn't in a rush. Although I will say the twists and turns really do keep you on your toes. The thing I especially loved about this novel was all the perspectives and the world building. Coben does a fantastic job at giving you two completely different worlds and somehow weaving them together. I really enjoy that. Overall, a good book, sometimes the writing felt choppy, but a good book nonetheless! ...more Riveting, Funny, Complex With Twists & Turns! An Excellent Read! I Loved It! This is the first book I have read by Harlen Coben. I saw it the library and it looked pretty interesting. Matt Hunter is on his way back to college when the unthinkable happens, he gets in a fight and ends up killing a boy. The story picks up 9 years later. Matt is married to Olivia, he is working as a \"paralegal\" at his brother's law firm, and is about to be a father. Things couldn't be any better for him right now. Until one day after his wife leaves for a business trip, he gets a strange mes This is the first book I have read by Harlen Coben. I saw it the library and it looked pretty interesting. Matt Hunter is on his way back to college when the unthinkable happens, he gets in a fight and ends up killing a boy. The story picks up 9 years later. Matt is married to Olivia, he is working as a \"paralegal\" at his brother's law firm, and is about to be a father. Things couldn't be any better for him right now. Until one day after his wife leaves for a business trip, he gets a strange message from her on his cell phone. Its a picture of another man. The next message is even more startling. His wife in a blonde wig with this man. What does all this mean, why would his wife do this to him. The reality turns out to be a whole lot more than Matt could ever imagine. This book is chock full of twists and turns and strippers and cops and ex-cons and family. A good book I didn't want to put down. ...more Coben is my new summer love. I've been reading everything I can get as my brain-candy whilst getting ready for a temporary move to the west coast. This particular book does what the best of Coben's do: create a sympathetic, sometimes stupid, good-hearted, slightly damaged hero who only survives because he has some seriously smart, devoted, interesting friends! Will rate it when I finish. Okay, I'm done. And I'm disappointed! I just hate it when white guys write these decent thrillers where the ba Coben is my new summer love. I've been reading everything I can get as my brain-candy whilst getting ready for a temporary move to the west coast. This particular book does what the best of Coben's do: create a sympathetic, sometimes stupid, good-hearted, slightly damaged hero who only survives because he has some seriously smart, devoted, interesting friends! Will rate it when I finish. Okay, I'm done. And I'm disappointed! I just hate it when white guys write these decent thrillers where the bad lesbian did it. I mean, it's kind of like the Dallas \"It was all a dream\" strategy, you know? Of course the bad lesbian did it. And of course she was able to manipulate everyone for the whole book - isn't that what lesbians are all about? Geesh. C'mon, Coben. Put a little effort into it. Aargh. ...more *spoilers* Read this in one day, which I wouldn't recommend. I had to finish it for book club! My head is still spinning trying to untangle the web and keep all the characters straight. Obviously written by a guy, with the storyline being about a hooker in Vegas, a macho frat house fight, and the clue to the unravelling is the serial number on the deceased woman's breast implants. I was on board with the whole story, until the end when you find out who Olivia's daughter is that she gave up for a *spoilers* Read this in one day, which I wouldn't recommend. I had to finish it for book club! My head is still spinning trying to untangle the web and keep all the characters straight. Obviously written by a guy, with the storyline being about a hooker in Vegas, a macho frat house fight, and the clue to the unravelling is the serial number on the deceased woman's breast implants. I was on board with the whole story, until the end when you find out who Olivia's daughter is that she gave up for adoption at birth. That wrapped it up just a little too neatly and really pushed it over the edge of unbelievable for me. ...more Harlan Coben presenteia-nos com mais um livro repleto de reviravoltas inesperadas e surpresas ao virar de cada p\u00e1gina. Opini\u00e3o completa: http://quandoseabreumlivro.blogspot.p... Harlan Coben writes a great mystery. to my Christian reader fans: there is situational adult content, but nothing explicit. Harlan Coben confuses me, and not in necessarily a good way. I was concurrently reading two of his books Drop Shot , one of a series of books revolving around sports agent Myron Bolitar and The Innocent one of his random books of violence and mayhem. I personally am having a hard time finishing The Innocent ,I keep putting it aside for other books. It's not that it's bad it's just that once the big secrets were revealed the book ceased to be interesting to me. I guess I'm glad I only paid 75 cents Harlan Coben confuses me, and not in necessarily a good way. I was concurrently reading two of his books Drop Shot , one of a series of books revolving around sports agent Myron Bolitar and The Innocent one of his random books of violence and mayhem. I personally am having a hard time finishing The Innocent ,I keep putting it aside for other books. It's not that it's bad it's just that once the big secrets were revealed the book ceased to be interesting to me. I guess I'm glad I only paid 75 cents for it because I am not quite positive I am ever gonna get around to finishing it. I will definitely be reading more of the Myron Bolitar books though, those are great! ...more Harlan Coben \u00e9 mestre em voltas e reviravoltas e, uma vez mais, esta caracter\u00edstica ficou vincada neste livro. Com personagens fortes e um enredo bem constru\u00eddo, assistimos \u00e0 vida de Matt Hunter, um ex-condenado que cometeu homic\u00eddio involunt\u00e1rio, e \u00e0 sua reintegra\u00e7\u00e3o na sociedade. Mas uma s\u00e9rie de acontecimentos e crimes v\u00e3o persegui-lo, bem como abalar a rela\u00e7\u00e3o com a sua mulher, Olivia. Confesso que o final foi um pouco rebuscado, mas muita a\u00e7\u00e3o e suspense at\u00e9 \u00e0 \u00faltima p\u00e1gina. Very good mystery, good plotline, and characters who you have to feel for. Good guy gets into a bit of bad luck and meets many bad people. Some even who would appear good are really bad. All the while the reader doesn't know what to believe or what's going to happen next. Hooks, twists, and turns abound. The action is emotion-packed and non-stop, to the point that none of the main characters get any sleep for days, and therefore neither do readers trying to reach resolution. J\u00e1 h\u00e1 muito tempo que n\u00e3o lia um livro de Harlan Coben e n\u00e3o pude deixar de me sentir surpreendida com o seu talento para... bem, surpreender. Mais uma hist\u00f3ria muito bem constru\u00edda, onde o in\u00edcio n\u00e3o revela nada do que se vai passar e \u00e9 imposs\u00edvel tecer conjeturas, at\u00e9 um final com revela\u00e7\u00f5es surpreendentes. A very good read from one of my favourite writers. Fast paced and at times humorous but always a great read. A minha opini\u00e3o em: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2... Wow, that was a great book. I read it in one day. I have only read one other book by Coben. Great thriller. Highly recommend. I bought this book by Harlan Coben after spotting it in a used bookstore and literally not being able to put it down during the ten minutes I was in there. I was with someone who clearly wanted to leave, and I didn't want to leave the book, so I bought it. I usually hate adult books and this really wasn't much of an exception. It has a really gripping opening and Coben maintains that pace for the entirety of the book, so it's truly a page-turner and I never really wanted to stop reading it, but I bought this book by Harlan Coben after spotting it in a used bookstore and literally not being able to put it down during the ten minutes I was in there. I was with someone who clearly wanted to leave, and I didn't want to leave the book, so I bought it. I usually hate adult books and this really wasn't much of an exception. It has a really gripping opening and Coben maintains that pace for the entirety of the book, so it's truly a page-turner and I never really wanted to stop reading it, but through all those 500+ pages I was asking myself why. Why can I not put the book down? Why is it so great? The answer is that it's not. I thought it was a very mediocre book-- but, much like The Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown , the pacing is such that you just never want to stop reading. It has some good lines, and Coben is clearly a great writer for the commercial fiction audience, but I still can't believe I wasted my money on this book. Now I remember why I hate adult books so much. ...more Those who like Harlan Coben, seem to like him a lot. The Innocent was my first Coben book and while I didn\u2019t love it, it did deliver enough curious twists and sympathetic characters to keep my interest. The difficulty in writing about a suspense thriller is trying to avoid giving away too many important plot points. Briefly, The Innocent concerns Matt Hunter an ex-con (but only marginally because his crime was more accident than premeditated) who has returned to his home town (after serving his s Those who like Harlan Coben, seem to like him a lot. The Innocent was my first Coben book and while I didn\u2019t love it, it did deliver enough curious twists and sympathetic characters to keep my interest. The difficulty in writing about a suspense thriller is trying to avoid giving away too many important plot points. Briefly, The Innocent concerns Matt Hunter an ex-con (but only marginally because his crime was more accident than premeditated) who has returned to his home town (after serving his sentence) with his wife, Olivia. Olivia goes away on a business trip and Matt receives a cell phone picture of her in a hotel room with another man. The story unravels from there. In some ways The Innocent \u2019s convoluted plot doesn\u2019t really work. Too many people have too small a part to play in the book\u2019s nasty business\u2026and some of the pieces seem gratuitous rather than helpful. Still, like a good book in this genre should, the book clicks along at a healthy pace and the lead character, Matt, is smart and likable. ...more I didn't like this nearly as much as Gone For Good which is a little strange since in some ways it's almost the same book. I've read two Coben books now and seen one movie based on one and all three of them use the same basic plot device. It's gotten old. Also, this one took a lot more time for me to sort out the plot twists - the moments that were supposed to blow your mind didn't do it for me because I kept having to think back about what character did what. I think the problem is there were t I didn't like this nearly as much as Gone For Good which is a little strange since in some ways it's almost the same book. I've read two Coben books now and seen one movie based on one and all three of them use the same basic plot device. It's gotten old. Also, this one took a lot more time for me to sort out the plot twists - the moments that were supposed to blow your mind didn't do it for me because I kept having to think back about what character did what. I think the problem is there were too many characters central to the plot who we never met (or only met very briefly) and were only told about. The final couple of reveals were absolutely ludicrous. At least it's a quick read. ...more Oh my where do I start? First off I need to say if your not reading Harlan Coben books start reading him. His books just get better and better. I love his Myron Bolitar series they are so good but his stand alone book are even better. In this novel \"The Innocent\" there were so many twist and turns I had a hard time understanding what was happening. The book started out with one situation then in next chapter went into a hole different set of characters then again into the next chapter I didn't qu Oh my where do I start? First off I need to say if your not reading Harlan Coben books start reading him. His books just get better and better. I love his Myron Bolitar series they are so good but his stand alone book are even better. In this novel \"The Innocent\" there were so many twist and turns I had a hard time understanding what was happening. The book started out with one situation then in next chapter went into a hole different set of characters then again into the next chapter I didn't quite understand where the author was going but in the end you understand how they all come together. This book was a true edge of you seat nail biting novel. ...more Yet another airplane book. Less interesting than Tell No One. You really don't need any sort of attention span to get through a book like this because you can miss stuff and still know whats going on. You could probably just turn random amounts of pages and still know what is going on. This book is one of those more plot driven than character driven books (which can be OK) but doesn't offer anything else besides a plot and a cursory look at each of the characters. Would I recommend this book to Yet another airplane book. Less interesting than Tell No One. You really don't need any sort of attention span to get through a book like this because you can miss stuff and still know whats going on. You could probably just turn random amounts of pages and still know what is going on. This book is one of those more plot driven than character driven books (which can be OK) but doesn't offer anything else besides a plot and a cursory look at each of the characters. Would I recommend this book to anyone? Only if you are in desperate need of an airplane book. ...more Enjoyed this book, Matt Hunter is travelling back to Uni with a friend they decide to stop off to see a friend then end up having a drink and staying A fight breaks out with Matt's friend and another guy Matt steps in and the outcome is the death of another youth. Matt goes to prison serves his time and joins a law firm on release, falls in love gets married and 'lives happily ever after' of course not it's a thriller after all. Some things were pretty predictable but not everything. All in all Enjoyed this book, Matt Hunter is travelling back to Uni with a friend they decide to stop off to see a friend then end up having a drink and staying A fight breaks out with Matt's friend and another guy Matt steps in and the outcome is the death of another youth. Matt goes to prison serves his time and joins a law firm on release, falls in love gets married and 'lives happily ever after' of course not it's a thriller after all. Some things were pretty predictable but not everything. All in all a good read! ...more Mais um excelente livro de Harlan Coben, n\u00e3o me canso de agradecer a hora em que comprei o 1\u00ba livro dele e assim descobri mais um excelente escritor de policiais e mist\u00e9rio. Muitas personagens mas todas bem delineadas e com o seu papel importante na hist\u00f3ria, como vamos descobrindo ao longo da leitura. O livro est\u00e1 cheio de twists, mesmo at\u00e9 \u00e0s \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas, quando achamos que nada mais vai acontecer ou nos pode surpreender, l\u00e1 o autor saca + um coelho da cartola. \u00d3ptimos momentos com este livr Mais um excelente livro de Harlan Coben, n\u00e3o me canso de agradecer a hora em que comprei o 1\u00ba livro dele e assim descobri mais um excelente escritor de policiais e mist\u00e9rio. Muitas personagens mas todas bem delineadas e com o seu papel importante na hist\u00f3ria, como vamos descobrindo ao longo da leitura. O livro est\u00e1 cheio de twists, mesmo at\u00e9 \u00e0s \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas, quando achamos que nada mais vai acontecer ou nos pode surpreender, l\u00e1 o autor saca + um coelho da cartola. \u00d3ptimos momentos com este livrito :) ...more This was my second Harlan Coben book and the second time he completely surprised me. Definitely a great read!", "Title": "The Innocent"},
