{"Comments": "Like probably everyone else I have been horrified and angered by what I have read of the brutal regime in North Korea. I have ranted with the best of them how the evil perpetrators of human rights violations should be brought to book for throwing a large proportion of the population into concentration camps and viciously oppressing the remainder. BUT\u2026 having just read <---A>Felix Abt</---A>\u2019s \u201cA Capitalist In North Korea: Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom\u201d I must admit to having my views rather moderated! In Like probably everyone else I have been horrified and angered by what I have read of the brutal regime in North Korea. I have ranted with the best of them how the evil perpetrators of human rights violations should be brought to book for throwing a large proportion of the population into concentration camps and viciously oppressing the remainder. BUT\u2026 having just read Felix Abt\u2019s \u201cA Capitalist In North Korea: Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom\u201d I must admit to having my views rather moderated! Initially I was not prepared to accept any challenge to what I thought was my educated and informed understanding of the country,<---M> but Abt\u2019s personal account</---M>, from first-hand experience, is very compelling. While he is not a concentration camp \u2018denier\u2019 (<---B>indeed he is often openly critical of the regime</---B>) he did help me put things in perspective and realize that 99.5% of the population are ordinary people just getting on with their lives in much the same way as people the world over. If, like me, you had a simplistic \u201cNorth Korea = Bad\u201d point of view you really should check out this book and be prepared to re-consider. ...more THIS BOOK is truly different from all other North Korea books I have read so far and offers a completely new perspective from a human (and humanistic) point of view, trying to show life in the country without political or ideological coloring. Indeed, unlike other authors Felix Abt prefers to stay apolitical and impartial when sharing his thoughts and memories of his extraordinary seven-year sojourn. His unbiased approach to North Korea is a provocation to all those who read and believe the wacky THIS BOOK is truly different from all other North Korea books I have read so far and offers a completely new perspective from a human (and humanistic) point of view, trying to show life in the country without political or ideological coloring. Indeed, unlike other authors Felix Abt prefers to stay apolitical and impartial when sharing his thoughts and memories of his extraordinary seven-year sojourn. His unbiased approach to North Korea is a provocation to all those who read and believe the wacky/scandalous and horrific North Korea stories (often with dodgy sourcing) that sell so well and that people readily believe. For this reason Abt\u2019s book will never get the same praise and is bound to sell only a fraction of \u201cNothing to Envy.<---F> Ordinary Lives in North Korea\u201d</---F>. The latter is by far the best-selling North Korea book even though it has not much to do with today\u2019s \u201cOrdinary Lives in in North Korea\u201d but very much with the lives of the depicted 6 defectors living in the worst crisis period (during the nineties) in the worst affected industrial city (Chongjin). Thanks to Abt\u2019s book we learn how much North Korea has changed since then. While he offers in his unique first-hand account insight into business interactions, he's sharing amazing observations about relations between men and women, North Koreans and foreigners, North Koreans and South Koreans and so on. The account is also peppered with interesting anecdotes and stories about private life that do not typically receive attention in the western media. This North Korea book also distinguishes itself by the 200+ photos taken by the author. Abt added more eye-opening North Korea images to a photo gallery here: http://www.flickr.com/photos/felix_ab... His memoir is an absolute must-read for anybody interested in this reclusive country. ...more Honesty Should Be Rewarded Not Punished The same way I was tired and bored 20/30 years ago of books about how bad China and Vietnam were, how they were the devil and the real hell on earth, all because their ideas and ways of doing things did not fit with those of that of the west. Now more and more from the west are flocking to China and Vietnam in search for work, China owns a lot of America and all the lies that were written 20/30 years ago have been forgotten. North Korea will be no different Honesty Should Be Rewarded Not Punished The same way I was tired and bored 20/30 years ago of books about how bad China and Vietnam were, how they were the devil and the real hell on earth, all because their ideas and ways of doing things did not fit with those of that of the west. Now more and more from the west are flocking to China and Vietnam in search for work, China owns a lot of America and all the lies that were written 20/30 years ago have been forgotten. North Korea will be no different and it takes people like Felix Abt to go and actually experience it and then resist the temptation of bashing the country to bits in search for money, imagine after 7 years he could of written fake horror stories and made a fortune off of it, he would have become CNN'S favourite speaker for sure. Instead he gives an honest account of the positive and the not so positive things that he saw from an unbiast perspective, which shows throughout the whole book. This is also a book I feel that any business person should start reading, especially those based/ already doing business in Asia as they may well find themselves doing business in North Korea in the future. In a world were the media lies to us on a regular basis and sells us manipulated information, let's support someone who has actually written something true and unbiast. As the title says he is a capitalist, making his way through a socialist state, it is an absoluteley brilliant read, I recommend this to anyone. ...more I have read a great many biographies of trail-blazers and Felix Abt\u2019s story of being a capitalist in that oh-so communist nation of North Korea is as intriguing and inspiring as any. His has an unwavering belief in capitalism as a potent and positive agent for change and development. I think people of any political or economic belief cannot fail to see after reading Mr Abt\u2019s book that \u2018free-enterprise\u2019 is not necessarily a dirty word but can be a force for good under the direction of responsible I have read a great many biographies of trail-blazers and Felix Abt\u2019s story of being a capitalist in that oh-so communist nation of North Korea is as intriguing and inspiring as any. His has an unwavering belief in capitalism as a potent and positive agent for change and development. I think people of any political or economic belief cannot fail to see after reading Mr Abt\u2019s book that \u2018free-enterprise\u2019 is not necessarily a dirty word but can be a force for good under the direction of responsible and positive entrepreneurs like Mr Abt. ...more A book that tends to deviate from and challenges most typical Western stereotypes of the DPRK and gives you a small insight of life in the DPRK and how unjust sanctions can dramatically interfere and impact economical progress in a country such as the DPRK.I personally believe that all who have a one sided, narrow view of North Korea should definitely read this book and push aside their regular dosage of one sided propaganda. I\u2019ve read 10 North Korea books so far, but this one is the most exciting one. It also shows the many aspects of life (and business) in North Korea I did not find elsewhere. The author\u2019s experiences as a business man there amazed me and the numerous obstacles he had to overcome were mind-boggling. This is definitely a 5-star book. I\u2019ve just discovered the author\u2019s North Korea photo gallery which is the best I have seen about North Korea so far: http://northkoreacapitalist.tumblr.com Loved this! Far from the usual doom and gloom you can read about North Korea, this book shows a side of the country that's much more relatable for the average Westerner. Sure, the focus is mainly on life in Pyongyang, while life in the countryside is probably much harsher (the situation is pretty much the same in my native Russia), but I really enjoyed descriptions of North Koreans' daily lives and of what it's like to do business in such an environment. Highly recommended book! It\u2019s refreshing to find a book about North Korea that isn\u2019t full of demonizing hyperbole. A true insight into a country that is largely misunderstood and misreported in the West. Mr Abt\u2019s very personal experiences lend authenticity to a well-balanced account of both the bigger political and business picture in the republic, and day to day life for \u2018regular\u2019 people. Felix Abt is a true pioneer and his chronicle of serially setting up enterprises in a communist country, and not just a n y communist country but t h a t communist country, should be an inspiration to any \u2018capitalist\u2019 who feels ground down by his own daily trials and tribulations! Having read several other books on North Korea already, I found this book extremely interesting, easy readable on one hand while also offering an in-depth view on the historical, political and of course the business parameters which define the current state of this isolated country. Felix Abt offers a well-balanced approach to explain the self-perception of the North Korean people and their country, without judging in the typical political way which we see so often with other authors. This is ju Having read several other books on North Korea already, I found this book extremely interesting, easy readable on one hand while also offering an in-depth view on the historical, political and of course the business parameters which define the current state of this isolated country. Felix Abt offers a well-balanced approach to explain the self-perception of the North Korean people and their country, without judging in the typical political way which we see so often with other authors. This is just to name one of the many facets of this book but for me personally it was the most important. It is clear that the author's description is shaped by the experience of having lived and worked in North Korea for several years. So this book is not offering a so called 'objective journalistic' description. However, it is exactly this experience (probably a unique one in the way that only a very small number of western managers so far have put themselves in the position from which they had to build up a profitable business operation, let alone in a sensitive and highly regulated field such as pharmaceuticals)which makes the \"Capitalist in North Korea\" a refreshing and highly informative piece of literature for every one who is interested in first-hand information from the inside of North Korea. For someone like me who has build up a local operational business entity from the scratch too - but in comparison to Mr. Abt's location in a much more convenient business environment here in Asia - these seven years which the author has not endured but actively shaped for himself and the success of his company deserve my greatest respect. ...more North Korea has been in the news a lot recently. Of course, much of the attention has been negative and rightly so--it's sort of a mess, one with threats of missile launches, nuclear weapons, and allegations of serious human rights violations. I was curious to read about the country and its people from the perspective of someone who had once, at least sort of, been an insider. I found it here! Felix Abt has written a comprehensive, honest piece about life in North Korea. He truly seems to write North Korea has been in the news a lot recently. Of course, much of the attention has been negative and rightly so--it's sort of a mess, one with threats of missile launches, nuclear weapons, and allegations of serious human rights violations. I was curious to read about the country and its people from the perspective of someone who had once, at least sort of, been an insider. I found it here! Felix Abt has written a comprehensive, honest piece about life in North Korea. He truly seems to write objectively, which is refreshing. His anecdotes and observations are so interesting, especially to someone who knows nothing about the region. Overall a great read and highly recommended. ...more An entirely fresh perspective on North Korea and therefore a must-read! \u201c<+++>A Capitalist in North Korea: My Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom</+++>\u201d by Felix Abt has its detractors and you may not agree with everything (or anything) he says, but there is no doubt that this is a book written from a unique first-hand experience as a \"capitalist\" in an arch communist country and I believe it deserves to be read for that reason as much as any other. It was greatly refreshing to read a first-hand account of what is really happening inside North Korea at the moment, rather than second-hand accounts of what was happening 15 or 20 years ago. Most of what I have read previously has been coming from one viewpoint and has focused on the shockingly grim years of the 1990s, when the country was ravaged by natural disasters, famine and millions died from starvation. I found Abt\u2019s version of contemporary North Korea and its willingness to face change It was greatly refreshing to read a first-hand account of what is really happening inside North Korea at the moment, rather than second-hand accounts of what was happening 15 or 20 years ago. Most of what I have read previously has been coming from one viewpoint and has focused on the shockingly grim years of the 1990s, when the country was ravaged by natural disasters, famine and millions died from starvation. I found Abt\u2019s version of contemporary North Korea and its willingness to face change greatly encouraging. It would be nice to think that a few copies could make their way into the upper reaches of the White House and open a few eyes there! ...more If it does nothing else \u201cA Capitalist In North Korea\u201d confirms that man is by nature a trader. That even under the strictest state controls private enterprises will emerge and people will find ways of eking out their existence by buying and selling. I was fascinated by this first-hand account of what is happening in North Korea and found the daring exploits of Felix Abt in the face of all kinds of difficulties truly inspiring. I\u2019ve always admired adventurers and pioneers and here I came across an amazing one penetrating fortress North Korea. Until now I\u2019ve read only about starvation and concentration camps and was made believe that\u2019s about all the \u2018Hermit Kingdom\u2019 is about, but the \u201cCapitalist in North Korea\u201d opened my eyes and showed me that most \u201cOrdinary Lives in North Korea\u201d are not as horrific as I\u2019ve been told before. It\u2019s a must-read for everybody seriously interested in this country. I have to take my hat off to Felix Abt. Having recently set up a business myself, in a small way, in a very nice, safe, well -regulated part of the planet with plenty of people to support me, I can\u2019t imagine landing in an alien world like North Korea and achieving what he did. Thank you Mr Abt for putting my own efforts into perspective and also opening my eyes to a country of which I was shamefully ignorant. I am not sure who Mr Abt has written this book for. He seems to assume that the reader will have no knowledge of North Korea, its history and people other than what they get from the Television news and therefore the message throughout the book is North Korea isn't that bad. The people aren't all crazy and the government stupid. The other message that comes across loud and clear is that people should have listened more to Felix when he told them stuff. All of this gives the book a tone of mother I am not sure who Mr Abt has written this book for. He seems to assume that the reader will have no knowledge of North Korea, its history and people other than what they get from the Television news and therefore the message throughout the book is North Korea isn't that bad. The people aren't all crazy and the government stupid. The other message that comes across loud and clear is that people should have listened more to Felix when he told them stuff. All of this gives the book a tone of mother knows best, which is annoying. This is also not helped by the attacks on other writers such as the excellent Barbara Demick and on individuals who he worked with. However he does provide a fascinating insight into how business is done and the working and social relationships between Koreans and Expats, which I have not seen detailed in any of the books I have read about North Korea. It is worthwhile reading for this alone. ...more A Capitalist in North Korea: Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom\u201d is a well constructed account of conditions in present day North Korea by a man with the cojones \u2018to boldly go\u2019 where few capitalists have gone before. And I use the sci-fi allusion quite deliberately as setting up and running capitalist enterprises in such a staunchly socialist, anti-free enterprise (at the time, although as we learn from Mr Abt things are changing) environment is about as alien as setting up a fast-food outlet on A Capitalist in North Korea: Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom\u201d is a well constructed account of conditions in present day North Korea by a man with the cojones \u2018to boldly go\u2019 where few capitalists have gone before. And I use the sci-fi allusion quite deliberately as setting up and running capitalist enterprises in such a staunchly socialist, anti-free enterprise (at the time, although as we learn from Mr Abt things are changing) environment is about as alien as setting up a fast-food outlet on the moon! ...more This book had my interest from the start. It is a combination of true life stories and realistic descriptions of the life of North Koreans. The pace is enjoyable, and the length of the book is perfect. Felix Abt did a great job of accomplishing what he had saw and learn while he was trying to do business in North Korea. This book is somewhat refreshing as a contrast to the doom and gloom of nearly every other DPRK-based book I've seen, which focus so heavily on refugees and political prisoners. Let me make one thing clear upfront: this is actually a three-star book. Sure, it's a little rambly and somewhat lacking in focus, but it's pretty well written (I'd even say very well written for a self-published tome), and more importantly, it contains a lot of information that can't be found anywhere else about the myriad little ways in which North Korea has changed since the first western books about it were written. So if that sort of thing grabs you, you really won't want to miss this book, Let me make one thing clear upfront: this is actually a three-star book. Sure, it's a little rambly and somewhat lacking in focus, but it's pretty well written (I'd even say very well written for a self-published tome), and more importantly, it contains a lot of information that can't be found anywhere else about the myriad little ways in which North Korea has changed since the first western books about it were written. So if that sort of thing grabs you, you really won't want to miss this book, and you absolutely have my blessing to buy it. That said, I can't quite bring myself to give the book the three stars it earned because the author comes across as such a jackass! I mean, you can trust me when I say that I'm actually completely receptive to the notion that all might not be doom and gloom in North Korea and that there's lots of propaganda on the western side as well, but Abt goes entirely overboard. His entire message seems to be that everyone else who has written a book about North Korea is misguided, and only he knows the real story. Never mind the way he slams all of the writers of older books about the country, Abt even manages to take potshots at more recent writers like Barbara Demick, whose work in her wonderful book of defectors' stories was painstakingly checked, cross-checked, and double-checked in the very best journalistic tradition (Abt, of course, argues against the points she makes in her book based solely on his own personal observations, but we're supposed to assume that that's somehow better). By contrast, former UK ambassador John Everard, who wrote a very recent book that also spoke out against the \"doom and gloom\" propaganda angle so common in western books about North Korea, managed to conclude that both his own observations and others' observations could be valid for different parts of the country and at different times throughout its history. For Abt, though, everybody else's work is necessarily \"shaky,\" full of \"patronizing falsehoods,\" and \"Orwellian.\" If the pooh-poohing of other writers of books about North Korea were the only issue, I probably could have overlooked it easily enough without wanting to throw the book at the wall. But Abt also smugly gives most of the westerners he worked with in the country an even worse sort of treatment, talking smack about them while only thinly disguising their identities so that readers can easily figure out who they are in real life (he goes so far as to talk about what one guy wrote on his Facebook page, and sneers at the way another was constantly looking for photo-ops with various dignitaries so that he could put the pictures on his website). The book also full of back-patting about how awesome he himself is by contrast: how he's able to recognize all sorts of cultural subtleties that other people fail to recognize, and how he's so much better a businessman as a result (there's even some musing about why no one ever asked him to do any spying while he was there, which made me laugh out loud). And as if that weren't bad enough, there's also a chapter filled with bizarrely worded \"compliments\" of various North Korean women, calling them \"pretty and affable\" or \"charming and clever,\" in a way that seemed to be trying a little too hard to make it sound like he wasn't just salivating over them sexually but respected them for their brains too. (Thankfully, there are only a few moments of blatant salivating, although one of them is pretty eew-inducing: a picture of a woman he knew with the caption \"Had there been 'Miss Juche' elections in North Korea, all foreigners would have elected this lady as Miss Juche.\") And okay, maybe this is petty, but as a German speaker myself, I was also rubbed the wrong way by all of the Germanisms and other bits of odd English in the book (\"lended support to the project,\" \"the ideological bend,\" \"after the many sleepless nights,\" \"it allowed this only, if paid and declared as a gift,\" etc.), which would have been a problem easily solved by getting a native speaker to carefully edit it rather than arrogantly assuming it was of course perfect as it was. So I knocked off a star for all of that crap. All in all, Abt comes across as someone you'd want to slap if you knew him in person, and that made reading his book, regardless of its interesting and valid insights, a real chore. Yes, western readers of books about North Korea will certainly want to read it, but please be forewarned and prepare to feel annoyed with the author when you do. ...more There are many who, on a relentless diet of Western condemnation of all things North Korean, cannot stomach any view that does not unequivocally vilify the country. It seems to those with this mind-set that anyone, even if they roundly criticize the country\u2019s governance, are characterized as having been blindly taken in by propaganda or labeled as a stooge or apologist if they attempt to cast an accurate light on the actual, contemporary state of affairs in the country rather than unconditionall There are many who, on a relentless diet of Western condemnation of all things North Korean, cannot stomach any view that does not unequivocally vilify the country. It seems to those with this mind-set that anyone, even if they roundly criticize the country\u2019s governance, are characterized as having been blindly taken in by propaganda or labeled as a stooge or apologist if they attempt to cast an accurate light on the actual, contemporary state of affairs in the country rather than unconditionally trashing everything to do with it. Felix Abt finds himself in just such a position; labeled by detractors as a \u2018regime supporter\u2019 for his work \u201c<+++>A Capitalist in North Korea: My Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom</+++>\u201d. But, such a label is not merely inaccurate, but shows that those who are leveling it have missed the point of the book and read it unwilling to challenge their pre-conceptions. If one was to try and put a single label on Mr Abt, it would be far more germane to use John Feffer\u2019s \u2018agent of change\u2019. Mr Feffer, as a widely respected writer, is undoubtedly better informed and less tendentious than the average reader and is able to recognize Felix Abt\u2019s role in helping to bring responsible capitalism to North Korea and to try and improve safety and conditions for ordinary workers. The business school that Mr Abt co-founded in North Korea taught putative business executives to build companies which would in themselves bring about positive change by creating jobs and generating income for workers. But it went a lot further, imbuing the students with the social and ethical responsibility which goes hand-in-hand with good business practice: paying decent wages, doing away with child labor, ensuring workers\u2019 safety, protecting the environment, respecting contractual obligations. Several years on, the growth of private enterprise and associated job creation can be clearly seen in the country along with the implementation of the good practices taught at the school. Some of the school\u2019s graduates also introduced truly pioneering business concepts. One, a bank director, introduced the first debit card and another became the CEO of the first advertising company. The latter might not sound that remarkable until one understands that formerly advertising had been banned as \u201canti-socialist\u201d and is, therefore just one very tangible example of Mr Abt\u2019s role not as a \u2018regime supporter\u2019, but an \u2018agent of change\u2019. As those who have read the book will know Felix Abt was also president of the first foreign chamber of commerce in North Korea. This became a significant forum for change as he lobbied decision makers for reforms and the establishment of a level playing field for all businesses. The organization was increasingly listened to and changes implemented by those in power helped facilitate the development of businesses and all the associated benefits. \u201cA Capitalist in North Korea\u201d contains many further examples of how Abt helped bring about change in the country; not to help line the pockets or enhance the power of the elites, but to improve the lot of workers and ordinary residents of the country: He sold equipment, specifically safety gear, to mining concerns to modernize and improve the working conditions of the workforce and as the CEO of the first foreign-invested pharmaceutical factory the enterprise was the first to achieve an internationally acknowledged quality standard recognized by the WHO. Strange to many, and counter to the cynical, hard-nosed, profit driven image of foreign capitalists he shared the knowledge with his local competitors to help increase quality standards generally. Neither of these two examples in any way helped the regime in itself; either its members personally or in terms of control of the populace: members of the elite weren\u2019t in danger from dying from working down mines nor were they likely to suffer from the consequences of treating illness with poor quality and ineffective medicines (they had ready access to expensive, imported brands). Doubtlessly people\u2019s lives were not only improved, but also many lives were actually saved. Labels are not always helpful, they are by definition simplistic, but if one has to allot one to Felix Abt is \u2018regime supporter\u2019 fair or accurate for someone who is critical, tried to bring about many changes and did nothing to benefit the members of the elites? Or in the light of what he actually did in North Korea is not \u2018pioneer\u2019 or John Feffer\u2019s \u2018agent of change\u2019 far more pertinent and, indeed, factual? ...more I thoroughly recommend this book as a very accessible and believable account of what life in North Korea is really like. The author, Felix Abt, does not try to put a gloss on the failings of the totalitarian regime, but you feel you are finally getting a balanced view of what is really happening behind all the secrecy. As he points out much of what we have heard before only looks at a particularly difficult period in North Korea in the 1990s (20 years ago) and nearly all reporting since then has I thoroughly recommend this book as a very accessible and believable account of what life in North Korea is really like. The author, Felix Abt, does not try to put a gloss on the failings of the totalitarian regime, but you feel you are finally getting a balanced view of what is really happening behind all the secrecy. As he points out much of what we have heard before only looks at a particularly difficult period in North Korea in the 1990s (20 years ago) and nearly all reporting since then has been coloured by preconceptions from this period. Mr Abt brings us up to date and reveals a North Korea that is permitting change, slowly, but under its young foreign-educated leader, Kim Jong-un, there seems to be a willingness to embrace new ideas and ways of doing things. It will be interesting to see, as Mr Abt suggests, whether the North Koreans follow the models of Vietnam and China. ...more This book is close to being North Korean propaganda. There is virtually no criticism of the DPRK government, but rather Abt blames everything on Western sanctions that have arisen only because the DPRK is trying to defend itself from an \"imperialist US.\" Even the language and word choice is alarmingly close to that approved by the WPK, with a hint of reverence for \"the Dear Leader.\" Abt did spend seven years in a slightly larger bubble than the one experienced by insulated foreign tourists. That This book is close to being North Korean propaganda. There is virtually no criticism of the DPRK government, but rather Abt blames everything on Western sanctions that have arisen only because the DPRK is trying to defend itself from an \"imperialist US.\" Even the language and word choice is alarmingly close to that approved by the WPK, with a hint of reverence for \"the Dear Leader.\" Abt did spend seven years in a slightly larger bubble than the one experienced by insulated foreign tourists. That makes for some interesting reading and challenging perspectives. But if one wants a genuine account of North Korea, there are numerous better books written by actual North Koreans that have seen behind the curtain. Those books, for the most part, paint a far, far less rosy picture than the one painted by Abt. ...more A fascinating and eye opening book from start to finish. Please read this if your idea of North Korea is that everything about it is bad and evil. Felix Abt\u2019s wonderfully informed version of real life in North Korea challenges nearly everything you will have read about the country before. I was fascinated not only with his stories of trying to set up and run all sorts of businesses, but also with the anecdotes about everyday life in North Korea. You really get to see how people actually live day A fascinating and eye opening book from start to finish. Please read this if your idea of North Korea is that everything about it is bad and evil. Felix Abt\u2019s wonderfully informed version of real life in North Korea challenges nearly everything you will have read about the country before. I was fascinated not only with his stories of trying to set up and run all sorts of businesses, but also with the anecdotes about everyday life in North Korea. You really get to see how people actually live day to day and it makes you remember that a country is all about its people, whatever the politics and the sensational headlines. ...more The thing that drew me to reading this book was the topic. I thought it would be a fascinating look into a country I knew virtually nothing about. And it was fascinating. I learned a lot and was surprised a few times too. It's not all about business though, there are plenty of personal experiences shared. Good read. My only complaint is that some of the stories felt \"short\". Full Disclosure: I won this book in a giveaway! This should have been a really good insightful book. The tone was very annoying. Felix seems to be the only person who knows or understands anything. The insights might also have been good if more timely. Much would seem to have changed. I persevered through approximately the first half then just skimmed the second half. Uncomfortable with how \"pro-North Korea\" he seemed to be, that is so much at odds with other reads, accounts and lectures. But it is another perspective on a country few have vi This should have been a really good insightful book. The tone was very annoying. Felix seems to be the only person who knows or understands anything. The insights might also have been good if more timely. Much would seem to have changed. I persevered through approximately the first half then just skimmed the second half. Uncomfortable with how \"pro-North Korea\" he seemed to be, that is so much at odds with other reads, accounts and lectures. But it is another perspective on a country few have visited, even fewer have worked in. So I guess if you are really interested give it a go, maybe the tone won't be so annoying to you. ...more If, like me, you\u2019ve ever questioned the efficacy and even morality of economic sanctions you should read \u201cA Capitalist in North Korea: My Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom\u201d by Felix Abt. From first-hand knowledge Abt confirms what I\u2019d always suspected: sanctions don\u2019t work or if they do, they only hurt the weak. A capitalist in North Korea is an intriguing idea and the author provides a broad brush view on a number of topics. I found the book to be lacking detail and support for the ideas he presents. Additionally some of the examples he presents would not stand up to a reasonable academic review I.e. Comparing North Korea and New Zealand on the topic of economic fraud or using the example of Ri Sol Ju as a rising female star because she has greeted diplomats. The book was disappointing as the author ha A capitalist in North Korea is an intriguing idea and the author provides a broad brush view on a number of topics. I found the book to be lacking detail and support for the ideas he presents. Additionally some of the examples he presents would not stand up to a reasonable academic review I.e. Comparing North Korea and New Zealand on the topic of economic fraud or using the example of Ri Sol Ju as a rising female star because she has greeted diplomats. The book was disappointing as the author has drunk the North Korean Kool Aid and writes with disdain about a large variety of countries, newspapers, people and policies. ...more Gosh, whenever I went into reading Felix Abt's book A Capitalist in North Korea , I was pretty excited, thinking that it would provide a more balanced view of North Korea, which is so hermetic that the rest of the world hangs on whatever news comes out. I've read of the atrocities that occur in the detention centers, and the struggle of the lives of ordinary people. This book at least seems like it's going to show that some of the characterizations of people in North Korea as slavishly indoctrina Gosh, whenever I went into reading Felix Abt's book A Capitalist in North Korea , I was pretty excited, thinking that it would provide a more balanced view of North Korea, which is so hermetic that the rest of the world hangs on whatever news comes out. I've read of the atrocities that occur in the detention centers, and the struggle of the lives of ordinary people. This book at least seems like it's going to show that some of the characterizations of people in North Korea as slavishly indoctrinated is not the correct picture of how things are. But although the book flirts with that idea, something seems a tad off in the account. So here's the thing. The author started one of a few successful foreign companies in North Korea, in Abt's case a pharmaceutical company. Part of the purpose of the book, therefore, is to try to demonstrate to foreigners, especially foreign companies, that doing business in North Korea is not so bad an idea. But the choice of direction in this book is odd. Abt will write at length about the ins and outs of his pharmaceutical operation, and how he attempted to run it ethically above-board. But why not an explicit connection made between the way in which outside business might help save the country? Instead, it reads more like an advertisement for his work. Another issue: for someone who lived in North Korea for seven years, there is little insight into what is occurring in North Korea, I think. Already we know that the author's lifestyle is far different from most of the people in the North. Living and working in Pyongyang, working with highly skilled people, most of whom can speak English well, and frequenting the foreigner spots there--it's not too much of an exaggeration to say that you wouldn't really want to read a memoir about someone who lived and worked in another country and mainly spent his time in the foreigner spots. In other moments, just when I was ready to get a richer account of what life was like for ordinary people, it feels like the book withdraws. Or rather that the promise of that account is stronger than the account itself. For instance, Abt tells us that North Koreans do in fact realize that a lot of the propaganda efforts or just that: propaganda. Furthermore, North Koreans have the same sorts of concerns as you or I do, about life and family. I'm on board. But then the kernel of insight we get is, for example, one of his female employee's lament that so much of the work-life burden falls on her and not her husbands, and the same is probably the case for most working women in North Korea. Great insight, but I would like to hear more stories like this. Frankly, I doubt it was the case that Abt was able to get very close to the people he was working with, for whatever reason. That's why there's very little insider info into the lives of ordinary people. But that is partially the promise of the book, and it just doesn't deliver. I'm sorry, but I can't recommend the book. ...more This one leaves me a bit perplexed. I suppose it's inevitable that the first entrants into a previously-closed society would be strange characters (consider the famously colorful British colonial administrators), but Mr. Abt had an agenda that I couldn't quite figure out. First, the positives: the accounts of this Swiss businessman in setting up joint ventures in Pyongyang for nearly a decade provide a view of North Korea (and its elites) which we rarely see. I'm sure Mr. Abt is right that there This one leaves me a bit perplexed. I suppose it's inevitable that the first entrants into a previously-closed society would be strange characters (consider the famously colorful British colonial administrators), but Mr. Abt had an agenda that I couldn't quite figure out. First, the positives: the accounts of this Swiss businessman in setting up joint ventures in Pyongyang for nearly a decade provide a view of North Korea (and its elites) which we rarely see. I'm sure Mr. Abt is right that there is much more diversity of ideas and industry in North Korea than westerners realize, as our media tends to portray North Korean as automatons. This book is somewhat refreshing as a contrast to the doom and gloom of nearly every other DPRK-based book I've seen, which focus so heavily on refugees and political prisoners. But, the negatives: Mr. Abt is such a devil's advocate that he made certain statements that I found shocking and entirely unbelievable. He insinuated, seemingly credulously, that North Koreans believe the South Koreans may have sunk their own ship in 2010 (killing 46 seamen) because surely the ships would have noticed a North Korean torpedo. His description of the Korean War was absurd: \"hostilities exploded\" in the passive voice without an instigator, imagine that! In addition, Mr. Abt seems unaware that he is only dealing with what must be the most educated, elite, and privileged in North Korea. Their experiences are not exactly representative of the majority of citizens there, yet Mr. Abt casts vitriol toward a well-respected journalist like Barbara Demnick for exposing the more vicious side of the DPRK. His self-aggrandizing tone becomes frustrating, and he seems reluctant to give his true opinion at times Ina way that can only seem mercenary. Glad I read it, but I would stick to Escape from Camp 14 or Nothing to Envy for those just starting to read about North Korea. ...more<---C>Felix Abt</---C>", "Title": "A Capitalist in North Korea: My Seven Years in the Hermit Kingdom"},
