{"Comments": "<+++>The Millennial Reincarnations</+++> is by far one of the most interested psychological theory books I've ever read. As a millennial myself, the concept of this book immediately caught my eye. A reincarnated generation brought fourth by the rapid development of technology? Is that honestly what 'we' could be? Well, according to author Daniel M Harrison that is -exactly- what we are.<---F> I was skeptical at first</---F>. I'd heard this theory tossed around by a few different people, and although I felt it to be val <+++>The Millennial Reincarnations</+++> is by far one of the most interested psychological theory books I've ever read. As a millennial myself, the concept of this book immediately caught my eye. A reincarnated generation brought fourth by the rapid development of technology? Is that honestly what 'we' could be? Well, according to author Daniel M Harrison that is -exactly- what we are. I was skeptical at first. I'd heard this theory tossed around by a few different people, and although I felt it to be valid I'd never really delved too deeply into the reasonings behind it. Daniel,<---M> on the other hand</---M>, has delved deeply into the reasons behind that theory- and written a book organizing those reasons in a way that is very entertaining to read. The author discusses an array of factors that play into our very, well, different generation- including a connection to technology and technological advances, an unhealthy societal addiction to money- and all aspects of financial greed that played a remarkable role in our upbringing and attitudes, and our general change in ideals in general. He brings up many valid points that left me truly reevaluating my opinions on my generation and the assumptions I'd previously made about our childhoods and our ability to stabilize in the adult world. But he does so with a fictional setting, through characters and stories that really bring the issues to life rather than just explaining them in a factual way. This book was a well-written. Although I felt like David wanted to cover many different points and goes into detail regarding those points on the Millennial generation, he does so in a way that did not lose site of the story as a whole. He keeps to the basic premise of the book (which is creating a fictional piece that opens up the discussion regarding psychological differences of the millennials compared to every other generation) and doesn't veer from the topic. By the end of the book I felt my mind had been expanded and I had had the opportunity to look into an entirely new view point. I feel a lot more, hmmm- how do I put this? understanding of my generation now, having read this piece. This is definitely a unique read, but it's one I really enjoyed delving into. Anything with a psychological undertone- especially ones trying to 'figure out' modern America, just really interest me- and this book accomplished the task flawlessly. I'd definitely recommend it for people of all ages interested in just generally changing their assumptions on the Millennial generation and all that are. ...more I LOVED Butterflies ... like, LOVED IT, but this was ... well, ehm, REALLY REALLY incredibly written. In fact, I would go as far as saying it's probably the best contemporary piece of fiction that I have EVER read. The book features a series of characters all around the world - in New York and Shanghai, mostly - as their various lives as technologies such as the Blockchain increasingly become a mainstay in life as they are today. As a result of human beings becoming more tech-savvy and biological I LOVED Butterflies ... like, LOVED IT, but this was ... well, ehm, REALLY REALLY incredibly written. In fact, I would go as far as saying it's probably the best contemporary piece of fiction that I have EVER read. The book features a series of characters all around the world - in New York and Shanghai, mostly - as their various lives as technologies such as the Blockchain increasingly become a mainstay in life as they are today. As a result of human beings becoming more tech-savvy and biologically-advanced, it appears like there are these almost-but-not-quite random reincarnations across like a 20-year or so period. Plus, there are shocking violent and sexual images the likes of which you will have to read for yourself. But Harrison does these justice by such beautiful and thought-provoking prose. Highly recommended!!! ...more This has to be the most controversial book I've ever read. It's also extremely disturbing, in a way that I haven't encountered before with other books (you just have to read it and you'll know what I mean). The writer is like an Encyclopedia too, and seems to know just about every fact there is to know about the world. There were some incidents written about here which I strangely identified with. It's like he has gone into parts of various people's brains and extracted nuggets from their memori This has to be the most controversial book I've ever read. It's also extremely disturbing, in a way that I haven't encountered before with other books (you just have to read it and you'll know what I mean). The writer is like an Encyclopedia too, and seems to know just about every fact there is to know about the world. There were some incidents written about here which I strangely identified with. It's like he has gone into parts of various people's brains and extracted nuggets from their memories and splayed it all out here in one book!! I am not sure The Millennial Reincarnations is an enjoyable read to be honest. I am not sure if I would even recommend anyone to read it - most likely I would not. If you are looking for something pleasant - stay away!! Far away! But I can't say that it isn't brilliant. It's probably a bit too brilliant, in fact ... creepy. ...more Creative, original and compelling, Harrison is at the top of his game in The Millennial Reincarnations. Thematically, this book is not as unusual as his first, Butterflies, since it is a straight novel. But the ideas within it are strikingly unusual - especially the twist right at the very end! I loved The Millennial Reincarnations - Harrison's powerful, unique ideas and virtuoso-like skills with language alone make this worth the price of admission. Definitely one to read! You can go to the web Creative, original and compelling, Harrison is at the top of his game in The Millennial Reincarnations. Thematically, this book is not as unusual as his first, Butterflies, since it is a straight novel. But the ideas within it are strikingly unusual - especially the twist right at the very end! I loved The Millennial Reincarnations - Harrison's powerful, unique ideas and virtuoso-like skills with language alone make this worth the price of admission. Definitely one to read! You can go to the website www.millennialtrilogy.com for an introductory overview of the novel, as it's very detailed and complex and there is A LOT packed into it - sooooo glad it's a Trilogy and that means there are 2 more to come yet!! ...more This book is like a crazy, crazy trip through somewhere you've never ever been before except in some crazy dream-cum-nightmare. For me, that was just ... there are no words for what it was, and I am a young writer who's good with words (or so I am told). Inspiring is one word. Admiring is another :) Congratulations on this supremely impressive effort at writing, Mr. Harrison, the likes of which showed me that there ARE one or two virtuosos among the younger members of the world. Maybe you will g This book is like a crazy, crazy trip through somewhere you've never ever been before except in some crazy dream-cum-nightmare. For me, that was just ... there are no words for what it was, and I am a young writer who's good with words (or so I am told). Inspiring is one word. Admiring is another :) Congratulations on this supremely impressive effort at writing, Mr. Harrison, the likes of which showed me that there ARE one or two virtuosos among the younger members of the world. Maybe you will get to review me one day - now THAT I would LOVE to see! (ps - I joined Goodreads just to write this review for you!) ...more Beautiful. Tragic. Thrilling ... This is easily the best written book I've read in the last 5 years. Maybe ever. The passages about New York made me homesick to return; the ones about China have tempted me more than ever to go. I agree with the reader who says not everyone will enjoy this book however. It's very much a younger generation book, because it's probably much more open and explicit than a lot of older readers are accustomed to (you'll think 50 Shades is an airport read by comparison). Beautiful. Tragic. Thrilling ... This is easily the best written book I've read in the last 5 years. Maybe ever. The passages about New York made me homesick to return; the ones about China have tempted me more than ever to go. I agree with the reader who says not everyone will enjoy this book however. It's very much a younger generation book, because it's probably much more open and explicit than a lot of older readers are accustomed to (you'll think 50 Shades is an airport read by comparison). But I felt that with the mastery of the English language the author clearly has and the sensitivity for the subjects, as well as the generally intelligent overtone of the novel that these were not invasive or even unwelcome (another type of reader would probably welcome more of them!) You just have to give this one a try on and see if it's for you basically. It's not for everyone but it is for everyone who likes quirky, sexy, new, beautifully written and deeply intellectual prose with a little philosophy thrown in for good measure. For me, ive been waiting for something like this for years. Glad it's finally come and hope I win the Givesway now so I can get my signed copy! ...more A wonderfully-written book - lots of fluid prose and deep ideas, as well as many questions raised that keep the mind spinning for hours on end! A definite must-read - wouldn't be surprised to see this go on to great things indeed! I am not quite a millennial and not quite Gen X \u2013 I am in that magical \u2018in between\u2019 state around 1980, close enough to both to fit in yet not quite belonging to either. Never the less, finding Daniel Harrison\u2019s \u201cThe Millennial Reincarnations\u201d proved to be an adventure I didn\u2019t know I was waiting to take. A subtle narrative wraps around the central story, warping the mind and concocting a scene both enlightened \u2013 and disturbing. Technology has overtaken our lives, and in this book, it has overtake I am not quite a millennial and not quite Gen X \u2013 I am in that magical \u2018in between\u2019 state around 1980, close enough to both to fit in yet not quite belonging to either. Never the less, finding Daniel Harrison\u2019s \u201cThe Millennial Reincarnations\u201d proved to be an adventure I didn\u2019t know I was waiting to take. A subtle narrative wraps around the central story, warping the mind and concocting a scene both enlightened \u2013 and disturbing. Technology has overtaken our lives, and in this book, it has overtaken our very souls \u2013 at least those of the millennials. From the prologue that reads more like a guide book to someone driving so fast they just might miss the most important thing to ever happen (it\u2019s hard to describe, you need to read it) to the flesh and bulk of the tale which chills in a strange reality of substance and \u2018what if?\u2019 this book provides an incredibly complex journey. This may sound confusing, and for a little while \u2013 it is - but it quickly becomes apparent what Harrison is relaying and how his characters play through life, dreams and even death. The writing is rather entrancing, at times shocking and even melodic, before turning sad and introspective, culminating in an ending that brings everything together. ...more Mind-blowing!! Reading The Millennial Reincarnations is a bit like sitting through a silent movie with the sound on in Dolbe: the picture quality is moving all around the place in black and white with the odd subtitle to guide the deaf audience here and there, while screaming from the sides of the auditorium are the howelling voices of the dead, the orgiastic grunts of the couple exchanging bodily fluids in the room next door (who are in one instance, but are not necessarily in other instances in the book, boy Reading The Millennial Reincarnations is a bit like sitting through a silent movie with the sound on in Dolbe: the picture quality is moving all around the place in black and white with the odd subtitle to guide the deaf audience here and there, while screaming from the sides of the auditorium are the howelling voices of the dead, the orgiastic grunts of the couple exchanging bodily fluids in the room next door (who are in one instance, but are not necessarily in other instances in the book, boy and girl, by the way) and the rise-dip-rise-dip of the Mandarin language coughing up enough of an atonal racket to make yourself ask: what the fuck is going on here? There are strong and weak points to art that grabs at diverse established historical traditions, rips bits and pieces out from here and there, and then patches the pieces together in an order that seems to give rise to something familiar but entirely foreign. This was the case with hip-hop when it splintered off from rap and mainstream pop music, or even with some of the greatest classic composers of all-time (Rachmaninov was one such writer). The strong points are that the art in question is original, it forces you to think about the way in which you have been compelled to ingest the art form by the process of reshaping it, and that it often leads to insights that would never have come spilling forth had the creator chose to go it the tried-and-tested route. The weak points of this sort of art are that it isn't at all familiar and thus tends to be quite hard work for the initial audience (who are the creator's \"guinea pigs\" essentially), only a very small class of readers often find such works accessible since they are filled with references, motifs and semiotic insertions the likes of which a general book buying public is unlikely to pick up on, and that as storylines go, these sorts of works of art - especially so in literature - are less about the plot than they are about the language and the ideas contained within it. Some will say that the weak points are perhaps something of a more superficial substance, and therefore they can be discarded in most cases in favour of the stronger points. But this is simply unfair - for if a book is not for the book buying public, ultimately, then how is it for? Either way, The Millennial Reincarnations possess all three of both strengths and weaknesses listed above, and is the very best contemporary example of this sort of mish-mash of art forms referred to above that I have found yet. By that, I mean it is clearest example of this type of hybridization of the post-modern novel, as opposed to the No. 1 book of all time that fits into this category (sorry, that one still goes to Ulysses). How does the author, Daniel Mark Harrison, fare? Well, if you like chaotic, descriptive, referential, theological, pretentious, very well written and sometimes even very succinctly expressed prose and dialog (with many portions seemingly translated directly by the author out of Mandarin into English making for some wonderful turns-of-phrase such as \"frog-humping cow\" or \"in a shit-throwing contest with a monkey\" or simply \"shove all the pants in the Universe up my arse!) then this is the book for you. That's quite a large audience, and my feeling is there may be a wider audience for this book than reviewers here have given credit for. But that all depends on to what extent the majority members of that audience can tolerate the turbulent back-and-forth attempts to establish some sort of narrative synchronicity while so many strands of so many different genres all madly sweep across the three separate parts of the book trying to find their place like leaves on the tarmac of the driveway on a blustery Fall day. At last count I identified at least the following genres traipsing throughout the narrative: there was Literary Fiction, a splash of Erotica, a healthy dose of Horror, a little bit of Sci-Fi, some Mainstream Chick-Lit or variation thereof, and there was also Thriller/Drama bending down on all of those. Added to that, there are multiple first and third person narrators who pop up variously in the story, both male and female and other omniscent. As confusing as this all sounds, it is not actually a great negative for the book and Harrison shows a deft professional skill here in blending this unusually wide-ranging melange of literary devices with skill in a decidedly cinematic way. For instance, there are the Prologue and the Epilogues of the book, whereby the transportation of the spirits that become the souls inside the characters of the novel are brought into place; there is the use of only a limited number of main characters in the plot which means things don't get too lost or too confusing, and there is a wonderful opportunity every now and then for a level of philosophical digression that fiction has not seen since Dante's Inferno (in one chapter towards the end of the book, one of Harrison's characters asks him, Harrison, whether he has free will and how this works if the author controls the character sequences as so forth. Harrison's replies are worth reading for both entertainment and genuinely practicable existential debate). Because it insists on not sticking to any particularly useful classification, and as a result any sort of reference is rendered very hard indeed, it is a tough one to know what to rate The Millennial Reincarnations. It would be impossible to give The Millennial Reincarnations a five star rating, because for this sort of work, the fifth star is only accorded to the ones that make it across the line of the cult secular novel read by weirdos, literary critics, academics, pretentious artistes and the odd blogger out into the wider world of the mainstream fiction circuit (a concept, perhaps not incidentally, which Harrison tears apart like shark-bait in the opening and closing portions of the book). To give this book three stars however would be to write off all the book's chances of breaking out of this no-man's-land of literary criticism and into the big leagues, which, while I am not advocating will be the case, I am not willing to do just yet either. The Millennial Reincarnations differentiates itself from other works in similar states of literary limbo by connecting history with the modern day, by intelligently and insightfully linking the world's two largest superpowers in history, America and China, and in the process, delving what must be admitted as deeply into their essential everyday realities, and by connecting technology and spirituality in a new way which I have not personally seen other writers do yet. These feats in themselves indicate that Daniel Mark Harrison is a writer of some degree of some degree of talent, and will mean that, although still as yet unknowable what the future holds for The Millennial Reincarnations, that it has a better shot than most of these sorts of books at breaking out of the gate. Does that make it worth picking up? That's the question that remains to be seen. ...more a simply super read! Very deep. This story is all about the transition of spirituality we as a millennial generation are currently undergoing. Harrison paints his picture in the contrasting and at the same time, strangely comparable settings of Shanghai and New York, with Macau thrown in there too for good measure. It'll keep you guessing right up until the final page, when all becomes spectacularly clear in a way that hasn't been done so effectively since maybe the Sixth Sense. This book is the a simply super read! Very deep. This story is all about the transition of spirituality we as a millennial generation are currently undergoing. Harrison paints his picture in the contrasting and at the same time, strangely comparable settings of Shanghai and New York, with Macau thrown in there too for good measure. It'll keep you guessing right up until the final page, when all becomes spectacularly clear in a way that hasn't been done so effectively since maybe the Sixth Sense. This book is the The Celestine Prophecy for the Internet age. Highly recommended. ...more My review is that this book stinks. I never received it and here he is posting another giveaway. I wonder how many people will get the book. Loved these stories! Great collection! I won this in a giveaway on Goodreads, thank you. Goodreads win When I first started reading The Millennial Reincarnation\u201d by <---A>Daniel M. Harrison</---A> I was confused when it seemed to skip from person to person. I had to reread the introduction and other previews to understand where the author was going with the novel. I find the author\u2019s defining the millennial generation fascinating. He acknowledges the obsession with physical appearance and popularity, with limited emotional attachment. Then Daniel adds parallel lives, but at the end it appears to be just one Ma When I first started reading The Millennial Reincarnation\u201d by Daniel M. Harrison I was confused when it seemed to skip from person to person. I had to reread the introduction and other previews to understand where the author was going with the novel. I find the author\u2019s defining the millennial generation fascinating. He acknowledges the obsession with physical appearance and popularity, with limited emotional attachment. Then Daniel adds parallel lives, but at the end it appears to be just one Mandate, or God, who shares in the lives of each of the collected individuals. It can be quite perplex when one person had lived in the life of several people. Or when they discuss that they live the life a narrator has written, and try to rewrite what was recorded. This was a hard book for me to comprehend who was speaking and what direction the book was taking. ...more I apparently won this by a Goodreads giveaway back in May, and I still haven't received it yet... I'm still very interested in reading this book... Personal Rating: 1.5 Review written for and published by Portland Book Review on December 15th: Daniel M. Harrison\u2019s The Millennial Reincarnations follows a cast of characters caught up in keeping face (or maintaining their mianzi ) after the Shanghai Sorority Dame was forced to flee China due to blackmail involving a sex tape. Her departure leaves a power vacuum in the sorority and the dramatic changes in the sorority cause some to gain standing, while others lose mianzi \u2013 a societal death sentenc Personal Rating: 1.5 Review written for and published by Portland Book Review on December 15th: Daniel M. Harrison\u2019s The Millennial Reincarnations follows a cast of characters caught up in keeping face (or maintaining their mianzi ) after the Shanghai Sorority Dame was forced to flee China due to blackmail involving a sex tape. Her departure leaves a power vacuum in the sorority and the dramatic changes in the sorority cause some to gain standing, while others lose mianzi \u2013 a societal death sentence in communist China. Backdoor dealing, bribes, threats, and more blackmail follow as the various characters scramble for their place. Unfortunately, this is about as much of the overarching plot of the actual narrative that can be easily gleaned from the story bits readers are given. The new age philosophizing of the book is force fed to the reader through contrived means rather than being allowed to organically develop within the story itself. The story is led into with a preface, a forward, a prologue, followed by an afterword to explain the author\u2019s larger ideas of reincarnation, evolution of thought in the younger generations, and the rapid evolution of technology. There is also a self-insert chapter \u00be of the way through where the author (in the guise of the narrator) has a long sit down chat with one of the book\u2019s characters about what was actually going on in the story. For the most part the writing mechanics so far as sentence structure and grammar goes were very solid. There were only a few misspellings and typos, which weren\u2019t enough to pull readers out of the book. There are quite a few characters in the book, many of which go by several different names, and sadly all are very two-dimensional. This makes it difficult to emotionally engage with the characters and it is easy to mix them up, which is problematic when you add the parallel timeline/reincarnation ideas. The segments that were the most down-to-earth and easy to follow were actually the scenes involving discussions about business and politics. Daniel M. Harrison is a business journalist, which explains why some of the more detailed segments revolved around business ventures. Potential readers should be aware that much of the story, veiled in the guise of broad thinking and philosophical ideas, are large sections focused on underage girls masturbating and having sex. So much of the story involves these situations that readers are forced to wonder if this book wasn\u2019t just an excuse for porn. Yes, it is technically true that the age of consent in China is 14. However, the age of consent in the US varies state to state from 16 (with a parent\u2019s consent) to 18, making many of these scenes questionable considering this book is aimed at adults. It isn\u2019t just the age of the characters that makes these sequences uncomfortable, it\u2019s that several of them involve blackmail, implied rape (in that we don\u2019t see it occurring, just acknowledged that rape did occur), and incest. It is also true that sex scenes can and do have a place in literature, but usually if it furthers the plot or, at the very least, adds some character growth to a character. However, when all of the characters are cardboard cutouts the sex scenes appear to be just for the sake of having them. Harrison claims that our thinking and striving for more (in terms of intelligence or thought) is being held back by the way our education systems teach science and technology. While it\u2019s true that people learn things in different ways and we shouldn\u2019t be adverse to changing methods that don\u2019t work, he seems to forget that the great leaps and bounds in science in the last few decades and the new ways we consume knowledge is due to the core scientific foundations set down and accomplished by past generations. Any legitimacy Harrison he may have in the argument against traditional science is thrown right back out the window when he states in the afterword that Stephen Hawking died in the 80s and the man we see nowadays is a fraud. There are plenty of books that deal with the ideas of reincarnation or a human evolution beyond our current level of connectedness and other philosophical ideas in a much more interesting manner; one that doesn\u2019t make readers feel like they are being led by the hand. You only have to look for classic examples such Ulysses , The Magic Mountain , Atlas Shrugged , and the more recent title, Cloud Atlas to name a few. The ideas presented in The Millennial Reincarnations are not new, and are done here in a murky, uninspired fashion that makes it difficult to follow the threads, let alone connect them. ...more I liked this book alot. A fun read. Not quite what I expected but still good. Won courtesy of goodreads.com fgiveaways.<---C>Daniel M. Harrison</---C>", "Title": "The Millennial Reincarnations"},
