{"Comments": "It\u2019s probably a bad idea for the US military to allow the troops overseas to get the news from back home. I have this fear that someday the service men and women in places like Iraq and Afghanistan will finally snap after seeing the people they\u2019ve pledged to defend are less interested in what they\u2019re doing than TV reality shows and celebrity gossip. If the military ever decides that the pack of assholes back in America isn\u2019t worth fighting and dying for, we could find all that hardware aiming ba It\u2019s probably a bad idea for the US military to allow the troops overseas to get the news from back home. I have this fear that someday the service men and women in places like Iraq and Afghanistan will finally snap after seeing the people they\u2019ve pledged to defend are less interested in what they\u2019re doing than TV reality shows and celebrity gossip. If the military ever decides that the pack of assholes back in America isn\u2019t worth fighting and dying for, we could find all that hardware aiming back at us someday.<---F> I really wouldn\u2019t blame them</---F>. <---C>Billy Lynn</---C> is a young soldier who was serving in Iraq with Bravo squad. After Bravo got into a hellacious firefight with a band of insurgents that was captured on camera by an embedded Fox News crew, the members of Bravo become national heroes. To capitalize on their popularity, the Bush administration has Bravo brought back to the US and sent them on a \u2018Victory Tour\u2019 (Which just so happens to run through critical electoral states for the next election.) to drum up support for the war. The Victory Tour culminates at a Thanksgiving Day pro football game at Texas Stadium in which Bravo is supposed to play a part in the half-time show. While Billy and the other Bravo members have been enjoying some of the perks of being heroes on tour, it also means putting up with the people who want to prove their support of the troops by fawning over them as well as being used as PR props by anyone with an agenda like the owner of the Cowboys.* Bravo would also like to sign a film deal before they have to deploy back to Iraq in a few days so they can at least get a nice payday for their efforts, but the producer they\u2019re working with is having problems getting Hollywood interested in a war movie set in Iraq. (*<---A>Ben Fountain</---A> avoids a lawsuit by creating a fictional asshole owner of the Cowboys instead of naming Jerry Jones, the actual asshole owner of the Cowboys.) I started noting passages I wanted to quote in this review, but I hit a point where I was finding something on every page so I gave up on that plan. There was so much about this one that I loved, that I don\u2019t really know where to start. Young Billy Lynn is one of the best and most sympathetic characters I\u2019ve read in a long while. He\u2019s a 19-year-old virgin who can\u2019t legally drink, but he\u2019s gone to war and had more experience with death than most would have in a lifetime. Billy is nervous when dealing with the older, wealthier good old boys who want to glad-hand Bravo at the game, and he has a somewhat naive belief that there is someone wiser than him that can explain all the feelings that combat and the aftermath have stirred in him. However, he also has a grunt's hyper-awareness of hypocrisy and bullshit. As Bravo endures a long day of being used as props for photo ops and a half-time show, Billy\u2019s musings and observations about the people and events in the stadium showcase a society that will spend billions on sports but pays it\u2019s soldiers a pittance while patting themselves on the back for the way they support the troops by offering them applause and trinkets before sending them back to war. That\u2019s a powerful point, but what makes this so great is that the message is delivered so deftly and without the heavy handed political left or right wing political manifesto that is part of almost any writing done about these kinds of subjects. It\u2019s also funny and absolutely nails many things that are great and ridiculous about America. It\u2019s only March, but I think I may have an early winner for Best Book I Read This Year. ...more It is early in the latest Iraq war. SPC Billy Lynn,<---M> a 19-year-old</---M>, silver-star-recipient and bona fide war hero, is about to be honored at the Dallas Cowboys\u2019 Thanksgiving home game, along with seven other members of Bravo company, for bravery in a battle that had the benefit of a Fox news crew with plenty of film. He is also the window through which we get a hard look at the reality of millennial America. That Ben Fountain succeeds so well in making Billy work both as a character in his own rig It is early in the latest Iraq war. SPC Billy Lynn, a 19-year-old, silver-star-recipient and bona fide war hero, is about to be honored at the Dallas Cowboys\u2019 Thanksgiving home game, along with seven other members of Bravo company, for bravery in a battle that had the benefit of a Fox news crew with plenty of film. He is also the window through which we get a hard look at the reality of millennial America. That Ben Fountain succeeds so well in making Billy work both as a character in his own right and a literary mechanism speaks to the extraordinary talent on display. Billy has killed enemy combatants and has lost close friends. He has endured a difficult family life in which his wheelchair-bound father sought refuge from his disappointments in alcohol and bitterness. His maturity emerges when he ponders larger philosophical questions or sees through some of the shallowness and hypocrisy around him. But he is also an innocent, a virgin in many ways. Billy\u2019s innocence displays when he is smitten with one of the Cowboy cheerleaders. He is looking for people to believe in, to trust, to admire, to help him figure out how the world works. One of the men he most admired died in his arms. Another is with him on the tour, Sergeant Dime, 24, a smart, tough soldier equipped with a highly refined bullshit detector. At the stadium Billy, seriously wanting to find out how things work in the world, wanders from adult to adult like a lost chick asking \u201care you my mother?\u201d This dichotomy makes sense in a young man who has seen so much. We expect him to be uneven The story takes place in a single day, following Bravo from their arrival at Texas Stadium to their departure at day\u2019s end. The half-time festivities, of which they are a part, include multiple marching bands, firefight-level pyrotechnics and a performance by Destiny\u2019s Child. Bravo is accompanied by a military minder, a corporate escort and a Hollywood producer who is trying to put together a major film about their exploits. There are violent roadies, Cowboy cheerleaders, football players of questionable moral makeup, obnoxious fans, corporate lizards and lots and lots of people who thank Bravo for their service. Alcohol will be consumed. Weed will be smoked. Sex will be had. You will, on occasion, laugh out loud. Siting the story in Texas is no accident. America\u2019s team hosts America\u2019s heroes. Dubyah has sent these boys around the country to boost morale, and more importantly, political and popular support. Theirs is a PR-for-the-war tour. They hate our freedoms? Yo, they hate our actual guts. Billy suspects his fellow Americans secretly know better, but something in the land is stuck on teenage drama, on extravagant theatrics of ravaged innocence and soothing mud wallows of self-justifying pity. But the soldiers know that they are mere pawns: \u201cEverybody supports the troops,\u201d [Sergeant] Dime woofs, \u201cSupport the troops, support the troops, hell yeah we\u2019re so fucking PROUD of our troops, but when it comes to actual money? Like somebody might have to come out of pocket for the troops? Then all the sudden we\u2019re on everybody\u2019s tight-ass budget. Talk is cheap. I got that, but gimme a break. Talk is cheap but money screams. This is not a cheery depiction of America. Warts are on display, maybe on the Jumbotron along with videos of Bravo in battle, and ads for everything. It is the nation in microcosm, with the soldiers just another prop pumping up the consumer to buy product, whether that be deodorant, sex or a nifty new war. By creating a relatable character in Billy Lynn, and casting a smart, analytical eye over the world he portrays, Ben Fountain has succeeded in producing a brilliant book. This is not only a sharp look at America and its values, considering, among other things, the origins of the Bible, how Hollywood is like the court of Louis the Sun King, sporting events as ads for ads, elements of spectacle as catalysts for tribal violence, fear as the mother of all emotion, and profiteering in war. It offers as well recognition of innocence and optimism in this everyman, a character who, despite having stared into the abyss, still nurtures very American dreams of a rosy future, if only he can survive long enough to pursue it. UPDATES 5/7/12 - Janet Maslin's great review in the NY Times 10/10/12 - Billy is nominated for a National Book Award - Hooah! 1/16/13 - Billy is named a finalist for the New York Book Critics Circle Award for fiction. 2/4/13 - This is more of a PS than an actual update: Billy Lynn popped into my mind, on a very big screen, during the Superbowl last night. It was not a stretch to see in the NFL's use of Sandy Hook survivors a cynical attempt to associate themselves with warm and fuzzy, America and apple pie, just as was done with Bravo Company in the novel--that Beyonce, and even Destiny's Child performed added resonance to the association with Ben Fountain's magnificent book--all the while promoting a sport that celebrates violence. The irony, or is it rank hypocrisy, was gag-worthy. 3/1/13 - Billy wins the National Book Critics Circle 2012 award for fiction ...more No; \"American Sniper\" it isn't. Even \"The Hurt Locker\" or \"Zero Dark Thirty\" or the forgotten \"Stop-Loss\" aren't IT, either. This IS IT. (you gotta GOTTA read Read READ this!) Of course, you would have to go to literature for the most captivating, most REALISTIC depictions of the new American Soldier's psyche. Juicy and spine-tinglingly relevant, this uber-irreverent novel soars high with a grounded and visceral pulse, in an almost minute-by-minute account of society's push on the soldier (Billy No; \"American Sniper\" it isn't. Even \"The Hurt Locker\" or \"Zero Dark Thirty\" or the forgotten \"Stop-Loss\" aren't IT, either. This IS IT. (you gotta GOTTA read Read READ this!) Of course, you would have to go to literature for the most captivating, most REALISTIC depictions of the new American Soldier's psyche. Juicy and spine-tinglingly relevant, this uber-irreverent novel soars high with a grounded and visceral pulse, in an almost minute-by-minute account of society's push on the soldier (Billy Lynn), on his fish-out-of-water-ness. His condition is complex and clich\u00e9d in equal measure, but that it is important or worthwhile of this awesome and o-so-cool portrait there is NO DOUBT. \"<+++>Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk</+++>\" is a gratifying read that's not only today's \"Catch-22\", but also Ulysses and Mrs. Dalloway put together, swirled in with the priceless and undeniable wit of THE Modern American Author. PS: film looks exquisite, no? ...more Well, that didn't take very long. Mounting frustration, a couple of critical (if unusual) goodreads reviews, and that's it -- I feel validated now, I'm quitting. I wanted to blame the audio format, but that doesn't usually get in the way when I'm truly enjoying a book. I could say it's because it's a guy book, but I've liked some guy books in my day -- admittedly they were a harder sell, but not impossible for me to enjoy. I guess the book just felt repetitive to me. Not much of a plot; rather a s Well, that didn't take very long. Mounting frustration, a couple of critical (if unusual) goodreads reviews, and that's it -- I feel validated now, I'm quitting. I wanted to blame the audio format, but that doesn't usually get in the way when I'm truly enjoying a book. I could say it's because it's a guy book, but I've liked some guy books in my day -- admittedly they were a harder sell, but not impossible for me to enjoy. I guess the book just felt repetitive to me. Not much of a plot; rather a string of linked events. Every incident was crafted to bring home one or more of the following points: 1. Soldiers in Iraq, and our hero in particular, are really just ordinary 19-year-old boys. But now there's this huge divide between them and the rest of American society. 2. Americans spend a lot of money on stupid things. 3. Americans are naive about the war, about the soldiers' experiences, and about things in general. 4. War is bad. 5. War is really bad. 6. You stupid American civilians just don't get it, do you? I just got tired of it after a while, along with being hit over the head with the fact that Billy likes masturbating in his room now that he's home. Geez. I got it after one time, do I have to hear about it every time? What artistic purpose is this serving, exactly, what new theme is this highlighting when all of the author's few points are being hammered in repeatedly as it is? I felt that Billy, rather than being a character I could relate to, conveniently alternated between being a cliche of a teenage guy and an introspective font of private wisdom. And it wasn't as if any of the other characters particularly grabbed me either. Yes, there were a few well-written sentences. Yes, I guess the topic is arguably a profound one even if I didn't feel the book did it justice. At all. And so many discerning goodreaders whose opinions I truly respect loved this. Raved about it. So don't let my review put you off, because I seem to be very much in the minority. But I felt validated by the few negative reviews out there, so if you're having the same experience as you read my review, then I've done mine. ...more It\u2019s an old observation, but true nonetheless: Nineteen is a difficult age \u2013 old enough to get shot for your country, but not to drink beer. In Billy Lynn\u2019s case, it\u2019s an age where there\u2019s more than that to sort out, but with little training to draw on to get it all figured. We\u2019re pulling for you, though, Billy. What SPC William Lynn was trained for was life in Bravo Company, ground troops in Iraq who showed exceptional bravery under fire. Footage of their valor found its way into American living It\u2019s an old observation, but true nonetheless: Nineteen is a difficult age \u2013 old enough to get shot for your country, but not to drink beer. In Billy Lynn\u2019s case, it\u2019s an age where there\u2019s more than that to sort out, but with little training to draw on to get it all figured. We\u2019re pulling for you, though, Billy. What SPC William Lynn was trained for was life in Bravo Company, ground troops in Iraq who showed exceptional bravery under fire. Footage of their valor found its way into American living rooms, and for PR reasons these new heroes were given a tour of appreciation back in the States. It culminated at Texas Stadium Thanksgiving Day where the Cowboys were playing the Bears. (Go Bears!) Bravo was invited to participate in the halftime show. Of course, with Destiny\u2019s Child as the musical act, they all wanted to know if they\u2019d get to meet Beyonc\u00e9. The live action takes place the day of the game, starting with the limo ride there (with Billy downing five Jack and Cokes) and ending with the limo picking them up afterwards \u2013 next stop: Iraq \u2013 again. Flashbacks tell us about their war experiences. We learn more about their victory lap, too, as they were trotted out to various media events including one at the White House. The most significant stop for Billy, though, was to an empty part of Texas. There at home he saw his doting sisters, long-suffering mom, and now disabled, still ornery father. He discovered the medical bills had outpaced his heroism. At surface level, though, the whole tour was a chorus of \u201cWe Support Our Troops\u201d and \u201cThank you for your service.\u201d It was nice to feel appreciated, but it may have rung hollow after awhile. And none of it paid the bills. Nor did it offer reprieves \u2013 they all had more war to go. To a man, though, they knew what they\u2019d signed up to do. At the game, plot lines were shooting in all directions all at once. A movie dealmaker was constantly on his cell trying to get the Bravo story on the silver screen, and money in their pockets. Then there were the texts from one of Billy\u2019s sisters trying to arrange for him to skip out of his return. And let\u2019s not forget Billy\u2019s newfound love, a Cowboys cheerleader with a connection to his hometown. The Cowboys organization was a story in itself from owner Norm (who was as thinly disguised a version of Jerry Jones as Frankenstein would be in a Frankenstein mask) to the players (a subset of whom offered gangsta-style assistance in Iraq for a few days). Most of the book worked well for me. On the minus side, though, I found writing at times to be a tad overdone. It can be a fine line. Exuberance is tricky. For me, an author with a good ear can even border on purple and still be OK, but other times it\u2019s simply distracting. Here\u2019s an example; judge for yourselves. \u201cIt\u2019s just too much for his hangover, all the mounds, slabs, sheets, hummocks, and hillocks of edible matter resembling a complex system of defensive earthworks, and it\u2019s that thing-ness, the sheer molecular density on display, that gives him the lurch.\u201d Then a few pages later, I think Fountain gets it just about right. Describing the luxury box crowd: \u201cThe men have the hale good looks and silver hair of successful bank presidents or midsized-city mayors, tanned, fit sixty-year-olds who can still bring the heat on their tennis serves. Their wives are substantially but not offensively younger, all blondes, all displaying the taut architectonics of surgical self-improvement.\u201d Other passages show Fountain\u2019s powers of observation. To wit: \u201cNorm is confident, absolutely, he is the king of self-esteem, but this is the confidence of self-help tapes and motivational mantras, confidence learned as one learns a foreign language, and so the accent lingers in his body language, a faint arthritic creak in every smile and gesture.\u201d Back on the minus side were instances of implausibility. I\u2019ll skip past examples from the plot since I\u2019ve said too much about that already, but will ask if we should believe that a young man can drink beers and highballs (more than a dozen), split a big joint, and still answer interview questions as lucidly as you please? While I\u2019m at it, do moms in Bugtussle, TX really talk like the coolest urbanites in the ice tray? To pile on with one more, there were cases where I felt his stereotypes were a bit too convenient (a notable exception being the born-again Christian with an impetuous moment of passion). Ah, but I\u2019m being too picky. The bottom line is Billy is great. In a way, he\u2019s an every-grunt, but one that grows very aware. He may not have been a scholar, but he\u2019s smart, and seeking. We can empathize completely as he searches for role models who can give him some wisdom and truth. Shroom had been one, but as Army buddies often do, he met a bad end. I mentioned before that not everything in the story seemed realistic, but it was all very real to Billy. This more than compensates. His feelings in the face of his conflicts seemed genuine and the book succeeds on those grounds; at its best, spectacularly. ...more A brilliant exploration of the dissonance and disconnect between military life and civilian life in a time of war. I can't recall the last time I've read a novel that skewers the American public so effectively and relentlessly. This is the right novel for the last ten years of American wars, perhaps THE novel for the War on Terror/GWOT/Long War/whatever the Pentagon is calling it these days. There are several excellent memoirs and non-fictional accounts of life on the modern battlefield (\"The Fo A brilliant exploration of the dissonance and disconnect between military life and civilian life in a time of war. I can't recall the last time I've read a novel that skewers the American public so effectively and relentlessly. This is the right novel for the last ten years of American wars, perhaps THE novel for the War on Terror/GWOT/Long War/whatever the Pentagon is calling it these days. There are several excellent memoirs and non-fictional accounts of life on the modern battlefield (\"The Forever War,\" \"One Bullet Away,\" \"Joker One,\" \"Generation Kill\"), but this novel heads straight for unexplored waters - the patronizing, superficial support of American citizens for their servicemen and the uniformly absurd way they react to a mention of the war or the presence of a soldier. It is a story that could never be fully presented as a work of non-fiction or journalism; every two-bit patriot with a yellow ribbon on a minivan or an American flag in the front yard would be up in arms if they saw this account in a newspaper. No, this is the kind of story that can only be told (at least in these contemporary times) in a work of fiction, and that's what Ben Fountain has done - filled a gaping hole in our understanding of our recent foreign adventures. But at its core, the enemy of the good in this book is not patriotism but the self-serving desire of the public to reduce the war down to something that is simple and easy: \"...and he wonders by what process virtually any discussion about the war seems to profane these ultimate matters of life and death. As if to talk of such things properly we need a mode of speech near the equal of prayer, otherwise just shut, shut your yap and sit on it, silence being truer to the experience than the star-spangled spasm, the bittersweet sob, the redeeming hug, or whatever this fucking closure is that everybody's talking about. They want it to be easy and it's just not going to be.\" With evocative descriptions and intervals of absurdist humor, this book careens from the most profound questions of life and death to the most base human desires. At the end of the day, it's not entirely clear whether the protagonists are Billy Lynn and \"Bravo\" or the American public, and perhaps that's the point - at some point the declaration of patriotism, sympathy, and support becomes less about the troops dying overseas than about the person making the declaration. Negotiating that line is not an easy task, but Ben Fountain has both identified the line and made a compelling case that many of us have crossed it, which gives this novel a relevance that is at once very contemporary but also timeless. There will always be something of a disconnect between those who have seen war and those who have not, but the values of civilian society will determine whether that disconnect becomes a yawning chasm. Funny, absurd, heartfelt, and provocative. ...more There are few things less enjoyable than poorly-written satire, and there are few time periods less interesting to set a book in than the very recent (past decade or so) past. This book manages to combine both of these for a result that\u2019s just as crappy as you\u2019d imagine. It\u2019s satire with all the subtlety of \u201cGoofus and Gallant.\u201d The plot is simple: a small band of soldiers from Bravo squad (which is a misnomer, but that just shows the MEDIA DOESN\u2019T UNDERSTAND THE MILITARY!) who responded heroica There are few things less enjoyable than poorly-written satire, and there are few time periods less interesting to set a book in than the very recent (past decade or so) past. This book manages to combine both of these for a result that\u2019s just as crappy as you\u2019d imagine. It\u2019s satire with all the subtlety of \u201cGoofus and Gallant.\u201d The plot is simple: a small band of soldiers from Bravo squad (which is a misnomer, but that just shows the MEDIA DOESN\u2019T UNDERSTAND THE MILITARY!) who responded heroically in a firefight in Iraq, and who had a video of that response that went viral, making them wildly popular heroes, are on the final day of a two-week Victory Tour in Dallas, where they are attending the Cowboys\u2019 Thanksgiving game before shipping back to Iraq, because football + Thanksgiving + Texans = super \u2018Merica. The soldiers don\u2019t really know what they\u2019re doing there, because they aren\u2019t told (see, man \u2013 it\u2019s JUST LIKE THE WAR ITSELF!), and so they just sort of meander around, drinking a lot and having a bunch of really rich, stupid Texas stereotypes (doing everything but yelling \u201cYee-haw!\u201d while firing six-shooters into the air and jangling their oil-covered spurs) tell them how proud they are of them, and how much they support the war, and how they all know President Bush. Because a decade or so later, it\u2019s incredibly trenchant to note that rich Texans had a lot of influence with Bush and Cheney. (It\u2019s time for me to fast track my book about how Deep Blue Something may not be the hit machine that \u201cWhat About Breakfast at Tiffany\u2019s\u201d song might have had us believe.) Our protagonist, Billy Flynn, is the 19-year-old soldier who played a key role in the fight, and despite his lack of formal education, he\u2019s constantly disappearing into lengthy interior monologues referencing Sumerians and Turkmen and words like \u201chomogenous,\u201d monologues in which he muses about America and things like how football players have, like, so much equipment and stuff, and sometimes jackets are expensive, and how America\u2019s like one big mall with a country attached, man, and other such insights that would get you laughed out of a freshman sociology class at Antioch. In the meantime, the men of Bravo are working with a Hollywood producer who\u2019s trying to sell their story who keeps coming over with stupid updates like \u201cHilary Swank\u2019s interested now!\u201d, which just leads Billy to have more stupid, second-grade-level thoughts about how Hollywood\u2019s built on lies and stuff, man, more fake than real! It\u2019s supposed to satirize the American public and what it means to support the troops, but forced ridiculousness like involving the soldiers in a halftime show featuring Destiny\u2019s Child or having Billy and a Cowboys cheerleader fall in love in a five-hour period is a plot device I might expect in one of the lesser episodes of \u201cPerfect Strangers,\u201d not in a novel that\u2019s getting rave reviews across the board and being compared to Catch-22. If you want clever satire and something enjoyable to read, skip this and pick up anything Evelyn Waugh ever wrote instead. But, Ben Fountain, way to tell us that the Iraq war is bad, and to stick it to President Bush 10 years after that mattered. That\u2019s powerful stuff. ...more \" 'If it's supposed to be this great Victory Tour then why can't he just stay home? Mr. Whaley's voice was gentle. 'It's fine young men like your brother who are going to lead us to victory.' 'Not if they're dead.' It took me much longer than I expected to finish <+++>Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk</+++> I couldn't put my finger on it at first, until I realized I bookmarked nearly every other page for the first 100 or so pages. This isn't a quiet book on balance: it crackles and pops and is aggressive and \" 'If it's supposed to be this great Victory Tour then why can't he just stay home? Mr. Whaley's voice was gentle. 'It's fine young men like your brother who are going to lead us to victory.' 'Not if they're dead.' It took me much longer than I expected to finish Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk I couldn't put my finger on it at first, until I realized I bookmarked nearly every other page for the first 100 or so pages. This isn't a quiet book on balance: it crackles and pops and is aggressive and muscular in its prose and in its smarts. I'd read lines I like, and go back and read them again, and look for more ideas, and look for links, and... well, I guess I got lost reading it in the best way possible, which is pretty high praise for a novel. At staged rallies, for instance, or appearances at malls, or whenever TV or radio is present you are apt at some point to be lovingly mobbed by everyday Americans eager to show their gratitude, then other times it's like you're invisible, people just see right through you, nothing registers. Billy and Mango stand there eating scalding hot pizza and know that their fame is not their own. Mainly it's another thing to laugh about, this huge floating hologram of context and cut that leads everyone around by the nose, Bravo included, but Bravo can laugh and feel somewhat superior because they know they're being used. Of course they do, manipulation is their air and element, for what is a soldier's job but to be the pawn of higher? Wear this, say that, go there, shoot them, then of course there's the final and ultimate be killed. Every Bravo is a PhD in the art and science of duress. The plot itself doesn't elapse over too much time: it's the end of the Victory Tour for the Bravos, instant stars in a 24 hour news cycle for defending a fallen comrade and holding off and killing insurgents in an outnumbered situation. They return home heroes, paraded around the country for media interviews and morale boosting. In the events of the novel, the Bravos are at a Cowboys-Bears game on Thanksgiving Day, and our protagonist, Billy, is bombarded with ideas and emotion as he navigates the day ahead of another deployment back to Iraq. Billy and his company, especially Dime and the deceased Shroom, are a wide ranging group of men with true brotherhood and camaraderie but also all with their own insecurities and demons from their war experiences or just from their real lives. Billy wonders which is his true existence on a number of occasions, and has to make a distinct choice by the end that tips his reality firmly into one camp or another. One can definitely get war book fatigue in the modern era, but all are not the same, nor are all created equally. Ben Fountain's setting on the home front in between deployments is unique, as is putting the Bravos in a position to confront head on the commercialization of war. My emotion and heart were completely invested in Billy's thoughts and choices. This 19 year old boy/man, virginal and lusting, smart but not fully educated, a war hero and in search of leadership or inspiration, we see the whole spectacle watching over Billy's shoulder. We're as proud of him as the adoring fans who come up to him and ask the same questions, but through Billy's thoughts we also ask ourselves, the readers of the home front, if its fair for us to have put Billy in the position we have, to send him multiple times to fight wars against unknown enemies for increasingly tenuous reasons, to make a not fully grown kid become comfortable with killing and constantly putting his own, too short life in the balance. The thoughts Billy has, the things Bravo says, the way civilians interact with these briefly home heroes, there's reflection and criticism and examination for the reader there too. ..and thinking about it makes Billy somewhat bitter. It's not that he's jealous so much as profoundly terrified. Dread of returning to Iraq equals the direst poverty, and that's how he feels right now, poor, like a shabby homeless kid suddenly thrust in the company of millionaires. Mortal fear is the ghetto of the human soul, to be free of it something like the psychic equivalent of inheriting a hundred million dollars. This is what he truly envies of these people, the luxury of terror as a talking point, and at this moment he feels so sorry for himself that he could break right down and cry.\" So the subject is heavy, but man is the writing fun! It ranges from really smart, clever quotes and artfully arranged sentences, to just snappy dialogue that is incredibly revealing about the characters who utter the words. The Bravos are funny despite/because of their surreal situation: at a Cowboys game rubbing shoulders with Hollywood producers and rich power brokers and gorgeous cheerleaders for their last \"free\" day before shipping out back to Iraq. It can be a macabre sense of humor, but it's also silly, crude, smart. I chuckled, grinned, and in some parts I laughed out loud. This is a book with so much feeling, so much verve, I haven't been this entertained and informed since The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao . Fountain's prose keeps you off balance and on your toes, but also pushes you into humor just when you think things are getting serious. \"Mango grins, cuts Billy a look. 'Dude,' he tells Hector, 'we already going back.' Hector squints. 'Shittin' me.' 'Shit you not. Leaving Saturday.' 'The fuck you gotta go back.' 'Gotta finish our tour.' 'The fuck! The fuck you gotta go back, after all you fuckin' done, fuckin' heroes? Where's the fuckin' right in that? You guys done kicked your share a ass, like when's they let you just coast on out?' Mango laughs. 'The Army don't work that way. They need bodies.' 'Shit.' Hector is scandalized. 'For how long you gotta go?' 'Eleven months.' 'Fuck!' Sheer outrage. 'You wanna go back?' The Bravos snort. 'Man. Fuckin' harsh. That just ain't right.' Hector casts about. 'Ain't they supposed to be making a movie about you?' Uh huh. 'And you still gotta go back? Fuck, so what happens if you, uh, you, uh-' 'Get smoked?' Billy offers. Hector turns away, stricken. 'No worries, homes,' Mango says, 'that's a totally different movie.' \" Overall, I found this a great read, with really dynamic, interesting characters set more or less around a day in the life of Billy and the Bravos, one pivotal, surreal day of \"home\" life in between being at war. And in addition to being highly entertaining and fun, Fountain also manages to inform and provoke and get you as the reader to ask some occasionally uncomfortable questions of yourself. There were parts that I found slightly heavy handed or didn't work quite as well as others (Billy falling in love with the Cowboys cheerleader and their encounter, the meeting with the Jerry Jones stand in), but overall I liked it a lot, would enthusiastically recommend it, and would probably re-read it in the future. ...more After surviving a bloody skirmish in Iraq, nineteen-year-old Billy Lynn returns to Texas a national hero. Footage of the firefight was uploaded by a US journalist and the ensuing viral sensation quickly made celebrities out of Billy and his fellow soldiers. Along with his comrades in Bravo Company, he is paraded around the country and hailed as a symbol of American hope and valour. The story focuses on one of the final days of the victory tour - Bravo are welcomed as guests of honour at a Dallas After surviving a bloody skirmish in Iraq, nineteen-year-old Billy Lynn returns to Texas a national hero. Footage of the firefight was uploaded by a US journalist and the ensuing viral sensation quickly made celebrities out of Billy and his fellow soldiers. Along with his comrades in Bravo Company, he is paraded around the country and hailed as a symbol of American hope and valour. The story focuses on one of the final days of the victory tour - Bravo are welcomed as guests of honour at a Dallas Cowboys football game and a Hollywood producer attempts to broker a movie deal to bring their act of bravery to the big screen. Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk is already being described as one of the great Iraq War novels but that's not really what it's about. It's more concerned with the state of the US at the time of the conflict. Billy comes home from the war with a new outlook and starts to see things more objectively. With fresh eyes he begins to realise the culture of excess and materialism which dominates everyday American life - this is never more apparent than during the ridiculously over-the-top half-time show. He is also amazed by how enthusiastic and clueless his fellow citizens are in relation to Iraq. It seems like everyone wants to shake his hand and encourage him to carry on fighting so long as they can watch it all on jumbo TV screens from the comfort of their own couches: \u201cNo matter their age or station in life, Billy can't help but regard his fellow Americans as children. They are bold and proud and certain in the way of clever children blessed with too much self-esteem, and no amount of lecturing will enlighten them as to the state of pure sin toward which war inclines. He pities them, scorns them, loves them, hates them, these children. These boys and girls. These toddlers, these infants. Americans are children who must go somewhere else to grow up, and sometimes die.\u201d It's hard to believe this is a debut novel - Ben Fountain writes with the skill and level of insight befitting an accomplished author. He portrays an acute understanding of the disquiet and frustration felt by the troops and skilfully points out the contradictory attitude to war among American society. He also deftly depicts the emotional impact of the conflict on the soldiers and the devastating burden it places on their families. This a brave and blistering anti-war novel with an important message at its core. ...more It is, perhaps, a fortuitous accident that I turned the last pages of Ben Fountain\u2019s absolutely brilliant novel during Memorial Day\u2026a day when rhetoric about courage, support, sacrifice, and patriotism overflows. Billy Lynn \u2013 the eponymous hero of this book \u2013 is a genuine American hero. He and his fellow Bravo Squad members decimated an insurgency \u2013 caught on film by an embedded Fox News crew -- and became overnight sensations in a nation starved for good news about Iraq. They are brought home fo It is, perhaps, a fortuitous accident that I turned the last pages of Ben Fountain\u2019s absolutely brilliant novel during Memorial Day\u2026a day when rhetoric about courage, support, sacrifice, and patriotism overflows. Billy Lynn \u2013 the eponymous hero of this book \u2013 is a genuine American hero. He and his fellow Bravo Squad members decimated an insurgency \u2013 caught on film by an embedded Fox News crew -- and became overnight sensations in a nation starved for good news about Iraq. They are brought home for a media-intensive \u201cVictory Tour\u201d \u2013 in cities that happen to lie in an electoral swing state -- to reinvigorate support for the war. We meet them at the end of that tour, on a rainy Thanksgiving, hosted by America\u2019s Team, The Dallas Cowboys. They are, in more ways than one, anonymous to an American public; their reinvented names are meant to erase their identity (Major Mac, Mango, Lodes, Billy, etc.) In the fabled Texas Stadium, their faces are interspersed on a JumboTron screen with ads for Chevy cars and Cowboy-brand toaster ovens and high-capacity ice-makers. Surrounded by so-called patriots, Billy and his friends are bombarded with words stripped of meaning: \u201crerrRist, currj, freedom, nina leven, Bush, values, support.\u201d Billy reflects: \u201cThey hate our freedoms? Yo, they hate our actual guts! Billy suspects his fellow Americans secretly know better, but something in the land is stuck on teenage drama, on extravagant theatrics of ravaged innocence and soothing mud wallows of self-justifying pity.\u201d The people that surround him are insatiably expecting Billy to impart wisdom in sound bites. Amid a world of plenty, multi-millionaires who have never put themselves in harm\u2019s way let loose a stream of platitudes but Billy \u201ctruly envies these people, the luxury of terror as a talking point\u2026\u201d At another point, he reflects, \u201cNever do Americans sound so much like a bunch of drunks as when they are celebrating at the end of their national anthem.\u201d Nineteen-year-old Billy \u2013 still a virgin, with major lust going on for a Cowboys cheerleader who believes that cheerleading is a \u201cspiritual calling\u201d \u2013 has the necessary replies to inane questions down pat. He is as real as he can be, as American as he can be. And in this way, Billy Lynn\u2019s Long Halftime Walk \u2013marketed as a satire and blurbed as a new Catch-22 \u2013 is anything but. There is nothing surreal about it; in fact, it is an entirely apt portrayal of the times we live in. I thought this book was absolutely brilliant \u2013 well-crafted, filled with insight and wisdom, and heart-wrenching. In fact, I\u2019d go so far as to call it the quintessential American novel, asking that all-important question: who are we and what do we want to become? ...more \"La societ\u00e0 pu\u00f2 anche non avere bisogno di te, in senso stretto, ma di solito un modo di utilizzarti lo trova\" Absolutely loved this book. \"THE DALLAS COWBOYS WELCOME HEROS OF AL-ANSAKAR CANAL!!!!!!!\" is both a quote from, and a summary of, this literary novel that I loved and admired (keep this in mind the other 95% of the time, when I am petulantly disliking literary fiction). The entire book, with the exception of one flashback, takes place during a single Super Bowl Sunday afternoon, when the Dallas Cowboys are playing host to eight Army grunts home on a cockeyed sort of \"victory tour\" after a fire-fight in which Billy's best f \"THE DALLAS COWBOYS WELCOME HEROS OF AL-ANSAKAR CANAL!!!!!!!\" is both a quote from, and a summary of, this literary novel that I loved and admired (keep this in mind the other 95% of the time, when I am petulantly disliking literary fiction). The entire book, with the exception of one flashback, takes place during a single Super Bowl Sunday afternoon, when the Dallas Cowboys are playing host to eight Army grunts home on a cockeyed sort of \"victory tour\" after a fire-fight in which Billy's best friend dies in his arms. The \"joke\"'s on them, though, because this halftime isn't just in a football game; it's their halftime break between two tours in Iraq. None of the citizens lauding them (which turns into a word soup of \"nina leven, terrRr, proud, so proud, nina leven, currj\") seems to realize the heroes are being stop-lossed back in two days. In the meantime, Billy just wants to meet Beyonc\u00e9, and prevent his mother and sisters from freaking out too much about him going back. The reason I usually don't like literary fiction is that it puts such a premium on style over plot, resulting in writing that's more awkward than revealing. Not so here--the writing sparkles with moments of sharp but simple observation. \"Major McLaurin is seated on the rear banquette, watching Dime with all the emotion of a flounder on ice.\" Billy and his friends goof off a lot, but other scenes juxtapose the sad and the banal. When Billy's waiting for an Army car to pick him up at 7am, ending his visit home: \"Denise poured more coffee for him. Kathryn cleared away his plate. The clock on the microwave was two minutes faster than the clock on the stove, which was in turn a minute faster than the wall clock, and every time you looked at one you had to look at the other in a never-ending quest for congruity. It was awful, watching those clocks.\" And while the book superficially appears to present a 3rd-person version of Billy's stream of consciousness, the football game provides a cunning structure for scenes of hope, fun, and disappointment. At the center of this novel is a scathing critique of how we treat these supposed heroes compared to the attention and money lavished on other categories of heroes, like professional football players and Destiny's Child; and of how empty our patriotism is when matched against Billy's horrific battlefield experiences and his family's needs. Even if this theme is hidden under a good amount of black humor, a lot of readers find it lacking in subtlety. I would too, except that I think it's true. ...more \"It is sort of weird being honored for the worst day of your life.\" Billy Lynn Bravo Squad, a group of young Iraq war heroes, is traveling the country on a publicity tour for the Army. They're to be put on display during the halftime show at a Dallas Cowboy's game on Thanksgiving Day. Wherever they go, they are greeted with patriotic platitudes, clapped on the back and wished well by a fawning public made up of Fox News viewers who want to thank them for defending faith, flag, and America's heartl \"It is sort of weird being honored for the worst day of your life.\" Billy Lynn Bravo Squad, a group of young Iraq war heroes, is traveling the country on a publicity tour for the Army. They're to be put on display during the halftime show at a Dallas Cowboy's game on Thanksgiving Day. Wherever they go, they are greeted with patriotic platitudes, clapped on the back and wished well by a fawning public made up of Fox News viewers who want to thank them for defending faith, flag, and America's heartland. I liked the relationships between Billy and his pals. Their constant roughhousing, and teasing of one another serves as a reminder of just how young they are...they are boys, really, but boys forced to do a man's job, and you know they can depend on each other in a crisis. I also liked Billy's brief visit home, seeing his relationship with his sister and his lack of interaction with his father. BUT... much of this book didn't work for me. I was regularly tuning out during the football game and the halftime show with Destiny's Child. Probably the thing that annoyed me most was the wildly implausible, \"love-at-first-sight\" romance with a cheerleader, who despite being a rabid Christian is willing to energetically dry-hump a guy she's known for only a few minutes. There was, however, a highly insightful visit to the Cowboy's storage room, where the soldiers got to view the amazing array of shoes and protective gear that is just given to the millionaire players, while poorly paid grunts are forced to buy so much of their own equipment, including adequate safety gear. The book is laced with humorous moments, but an overall tone of sadness and desperation lingers because the boys are on their way back to Iraq for another year. Back to that madness-inducing mix of boredom and sheer terror. Back to the insanity of planting your feet one in front of the other instead of side by side when riding in a Humvee. That way if you hit an IED, you only lose one foot instead of two. Back to fighting the good fight, so that wealthy Americans will continue to enjoy the freedom to buy $695.00 leather Cowboy's jackets. ...more If you saw and enjoyed the compelling TV series Generation Kill, then I think you will love this book. There are many outrageous claims made for the book on the back of the proof copy I read and, I have to say, they all stand up. This is classic literature that will stand the test of time; classic in the sense that it joins a long list of stories about the damage done to young men by a foreign war and the difficulties they face in re-adapting to their homeland. It is also a damning, lacerating d If you saw and enjoyed the compelling TV series Generation Kill, then I think you will love this book. There are many outrageous claims made for the book on the back of the proof copy I read and, I have to say, they all stand up. This is classic literature that will stand the test of time; classic in the sense that it joins a long list of stories about the damage done to young men by a foreign war and the difficulties they face in re-adapting to their homeland. It is also a damning, lacerating dissection of a certain facet of United States society - of those people who are well content to talk the talk of war but are happily oblivious of the cost. The story is also consistently funny - bitingly so - and all the more heartbreaking for that. It bears comparison with Slaughterhouse 5, Catch 22, the movie Coming Home, All Quiet on the Western Front, the poems of Wilfred Owen, the Regeneration trilogy, A Farewell to Arms, Johnny Got His Gun - it really is as good as that. ...more I\u2019d happily fall in love with a book that was trying to capture and examine our contemporary reality. Politically, I absolutely agree with the themes highlighted (to death) in this book about the calculations behind going to war, about our society\u2019s inane \u2018priorities,\u2019\u2014everything. But Ben Fountain never lets me forget that he\u2019s communicating his messages, that he\u2019s making these oh-so-important statements. Instead of telling a good story or giving us a meaningful character study, all Mr. Fountain I\u2019d happily fall in love with a book that was trying to capture and examine our contemporary reality. Politically, I absolutely agree with the themes highlighted (to death) in this book about the calculations behind going to war, about our society\u2019s inane \u2018priorities,\u2019\u2014everything. But Ben Fountain never lets me forget that he\u2019s communicating his messages, that he\u2019s making these oh-so-important statements. Instead of telling a good story or giving us a meaningful character study, all Mr. Fountain did was use his characters like they were action figure toys that he\u2019d inject into *set pieces* as a way to introduce unsubtly yet another example of how hypocritical, ignorant, superficial, or greedy some people are. There is not one section in the book where I couldn\u2019t see the author\u2019s clumsy hands all over each page. There's nothing artful or literary about this at all. Instead of getting lost in the story, lost in Billy\u2019s meditations, I just felt like the author was punching me in the face with messages that weren\u2019t even very deep. He wants to raise important questions, but how come his treatment of them is so trite? The same themes are repeated over and over and over and over again, in the EXACT same way each time. It is not as if, in revisiting the same themes again and again, we are peeling back different layers of meanings and perspectives. No, the author doesn\u2019t open our eyes to any new dimensions. Seriously, after the first 100 pages (maybe even less), you don\u2019t gain any new insight into Billy, into war, or our superficial culture that the author didn\u2019t already make in the first few pages. Moreover, most of the characters are crude stereotypes, except for Billy (kind of)\u2014and maybe Dime. If a book doesn\u2019t work for me, then it just doesn\u2019t; there\u2019s no need for extra, special outrage. Most of the time, I\u2019m self-aware enough to chalk up it up to differences in opinions and tastes. Everything\u2019s subjective anyway; yes, I understand. But allow me to be immature here, just this once. In this case, there is a need for extra, special outrage. HOW IS THIS BOOK CONSIDERED WELL-WRITTEN, ENGAGING FICTION???? Why so many people, whose opinions I trust, have trumpeted this as *the* book of the year baffles me to no end. ...more Wow. Five stars? Really? For this? I'm not trying to be a dick. I'm not trying to patronize. I don't mean, even, to be overly critical. It's just that there is no way that this book is a five star book. Think about it, people who have read it. Do you really mean to say that this book deserves THE BEST SCORE POSSIBLE? Are you willing to say that yes, this book deserves to be placed among the top eschelons of eternity? I mean, I'm just asking. I'm not saying that it's not a five star idea or that Wow. Five stars? Really? For this? I'm not trying to be a dick. I'm not trying to patronize. I don't mean, even, to be overly critical. It's just that there is no way that this book is a five star book. Think about it, people who have read it. Do you really mean to say that this book deserves THE BEST SCORE POSSIBLE? Are you willing to say that yes, this book deserves to be placed among the top eschelons of eternity? I mean, I'm just asking. I'm not saying that it's not a five star idea or that there aren't five star sentences or five star phrases or descriptions or whatever inside. There probably are. But also? That's part of the problem. Bunch of soldier-heroes coming back from Iraq, gonna be showcased and VIP'd at the Thanksgiving Cowboys game, alongside Destiny's Child... it's a seductive idea. And granted, if I would've thought of it, I might've tried to make it work, might've let myself be seduced. But the truth is that, in the end, this book is at the mercy of its great idea. Or, maybe even more accurately, the ideas are so big here that no part of the book is ever able to transcend them. Dallas Cowboys. Heroes from Iraq. Thanksgiving. Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders. Texas Stadium. Texas. Dead fellow soldier. Owner based on Jerry Jones. It's like the author had a decent idea and wanted to say something about America and terrorism and the oughts and football and sexism, etc., but the fact is that anything you could say about any of that stuff is so obvious, so overdone, so already laden with over-the-top symbolism, that the only thing you can do while reading it--other than tip your hat to a good many propulsive and show-offy sentences--is nod your head and/or roll your eyes. I wondered if I was being too harsh, if maybe I should've given this book more of a chance. Then I saw it at Kroger, my local grocery store, and I realized that yes, this was not a book for the ages, but a book for right now, and that it, like the store's produce, will wither and disappear. Maybe someone will be able to make a meal of it. As for me, it's already expired. ...more Billy Lynn is a hero\u2026a gad-dam gen-u-wine hee-row\u2026a nineteen-year-old Silver-Starred hero who watched his best friend die in his arms and got medalled for it. \u201cRaped by angels\u201d is how he and his fellow BRAVO team describe the firefights of their experience in \u201cEye-rack.\u201d Now back stateside to a hero\u2019s welcome\u2026a two-week blitz through the swing states\u2026culminating in talking a movie deal with a part-owner of the Dallas Cowboys. They are publicly lauded/humiliated during a sleet-filled losing game Billy Lynn is a hero\u2026a gad-dam gen-u-wine hee-row\u2026a nineteen-year-old Silver-Starred hero who watched his best friend die in his arms and got medalled for it. \u201cRaped by angels\u201d is how he and his fellow BRAVO team describe the firefights of their experience in \u201cEye-rack.\u201d Now back stateside to a hero\u2019s welcome\u2026a two-week blitz through the swing states\u2026culminating in talking a movie deal with a part-owner of the Dallas Cowboys. They are publicly lauded/humiliated during a sleet-filled losing game where the soldiers and Beyonc\u00e9 are the halftime show. The fireworks come as a surprise and as BRAVO heart rates spike, and their eyes come loose in their sockets, they have a hard time holding their insides together and their hearts from jumping right through their mouths. This is a brilliant mix of trash talk from the boys who keep us safe, and sober (well, somewhat sober) reflections on the state of America, our way of life, what we have done with our great resources and how we have created and shared wealth. The boys are going back, and they go back with their eyes opened to what they are defending, and what they are fighting and dying for. It should come as no surprise that they fight for one another, more than any ideals. America has shown herself to be less than ideal. Ben Fountain has a real classic here. He has written a Catch-22 for today, and this should be widely read, shared, talked about. Harper Collins has had a number of fantastic successes recently (see Beautiful Ruins , Restoration , and Waiting for Sunrise ) and is quickly becoming the press to beat. Kudos, HC! ...more It feels weirdly unpatriotic to like the Iraq War book written by a non-vet better than the one written by a guy who was there, but there it is: I like this better than The Yellow Birds, not that that's a bad book, but it's a little bit written at times. This one is both less forced and more engrossing. It takes place over the course of a single football game, as Billy Lynn and his squad of war heroes are paraded around like propaganda monkeys. Flashbacks give you the gist of the engagement that It feels weirdly unpatriotic to like the Iraq War book written by a non-vet better than the one written by a guy who was there, but there it is: I like this better than The Yellow Birds, not that that's a bad book, but it's a little bit written at times. This one is both less forced and more engrossing. It takes place over the course of a single football game, as Billy Lynn and his squad of war heroes are paraded around like propaganda monkeys. Flashbacks give you the gist of the engagement that made them heroes, but they're hazy and indistinct; no one is exactly sure what happened there. It looked good on camera. Many of them didn't die, so that seems positive. While the squad semi-covertly gets drunk and high and tries to screw cheerleaders, they also attempt to negotiate a movie deal for their story, and that's sortof what the book is about: who gets to tell the story. Over and over, they meet people who inform them what their story is. They are heroes; they are fighting bad guys and they are winning. That doesn't seem to be the story to them, or at least not the important part - the important part is that people keep trying to kill them and it's awful - but \"forget it, they are the ones in charge, these saps, these innocents, their homeland dream is the dominant force. His reality is their reality's bitch.\" It's an ingratiating book, no doubt. There's a sexy-cheerleader subplot that's only a little more interesting than the bare minimum, and there are at least two real rah-rah scenes where the little guy gets to have a little victory, and what the hell, let's have Beyonce show up too. But it has serious things to say, and I don't mind a little sugar to go with it. It's a win of a book. ...more Having a somewhat loose connection to the military lifestyle, I felt an instant connection to this book that goes deeper than a cursory glance just across the surface. It made BILLY LYNN\u2019S LONG HALFTIME WALK real to me, yet I did have trouble initially getting into the story, because it\u2019s told as much through flashbacks, bouncing in time from the present to the past, that I struggled initially with the author\u2019s choice of storytelling. But once I caught on, I dove into the water headfirst, and I Having a somewhat loose connection to the military lifestyle, I felt an instant connection to this book that goes deeper than a cursory glance just across the surface. It made BILLY LYNN\u2019S LONG HALFTIME WALK real to me, yet I did have trouble initially getting into the story, because it\u2019s told as much through flashbacks, bouncing in time from the present to the past, that I struggled initially with the author\u2019s choice of storytelling. But once I caught on, I dove into the water headfirst, and I didn\u2019t bother coming up for air. Sure, there are satirical elements to the story, and it presents a world that\u2019s not all sugarplums and candy canes and apple pies, but it\u2019s the world we currently live in, if not slightly exaggerated. And for me, that was most of the appeal of the novel. I loved the direct line of sight into the eyes of a soldier, a grunt and a squad that was suddenly blown up bigger than an atomic bomb because of the media attention, the Jumbotron, the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders, and the Victory Tour. It\u2019s a study in American excess, and it further cements the great American divide between the haves and the have nots. This novel is at times powerful, heartbreaking, funny, sad, but overall it\u2019s a richly written piece of fiction that made me pause and reflect, if even just for a minute, at the direction our country has taken. ...more Billy Lynn is a 19 year old Texan Iraq War hero on a P.R. tour for the Army. The team \u201cthe Bravos\u201d are on a two week \u201cVictory Tour\u201d stateside that were filmed and widely viewed on TV due to acts of valour in Iraq. Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk is a satirical look at Americans and how they treat and view the war on terror. I\u2019ve often heard that this book is a satirical book in the vein of Slaughterhouse-Five and Catch 22 and this was the primary reason I read this book. While there were some sa Billy Lynn is a 19 year old Texan Iraq War hero on a P.R. tour for the Army. The team \u201cthe Bravos\u201d are on a two week \u201cVictory Tour\u201d stateside that were filmed and widely viewed on TV due to acts of valour in Iraq. Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk is a satirical look at Americans and how they treat and view the war on terror. I\u2019ve often heard that this book is a satirical book in the vein of Slaughterhouse-Five and Catch 22 and this was the primary reason I read this book. While there were some satirical elements in the book, I found this book a little heartbreaking; in the sense that these soldiers fight of their country and the Americans love them for it, as long as it doesn\u2019t interrupt their football or cost them anything. This was the overall message I got from this book; people will support their troops as long as it takes no effort and doesn\u2019t interrupt their lives. I wanted to like this book and sure there is a lot to think about in this book but I think leaving me so feeling so bad doesn\u2019t really help with the enjoyment element of this book. There were so literary issues I\u2019ve had, but they could be narrowed down to the fact I\u2019m not an American and I don\u2019t fully understand the American lifestyle. The entire book really showed the disconnection between the military and civil life in this modern day. American wants revenge for 9/11 but they are not willing to sacrifice their Thanksgiving football game. This was a powerful book and while it\u2019s not as funny as Catch 22 it does leave you pondering life like Slaughterhouse-Five did for me. As I\u2019ve stated I\u2019m not expert in American life or politics but this did leave me pondering many aspects of this war on Terror. ...more My absolutely favorite book of the year. I am disappointed that it did not receive the National Book Award, for which it was a finalist. Paul Fussell once said (and this is a fairly loose paraphrase from memory) that it was impossible to speak clearly about war because the true facts of war are so gruesome and ghastly that people will turn from the page in horror unless you use a variety of literary devices to soften the blow. Ben Fountain has found a dark, funny route into the big conversation My absolutely favorite book of the year. I am disappointed that it did not receive the National Book Award, for which it was a finalist. Paul Fussell once said (and this is a fairly loose paraphrase from memory) that it was impossible to speak clearly about war because the true facts of war are so gruesome and ghastly that people will turn from the page in horror unless you use a variety of literary devices to soften the blow. Ben Fountain has found a dark, funny route into the big conversation and his gorgeously written novel observes the complex desires of Americans when it comes to making sense of war. Billy Lynn and the rest of the Bravo company are American heroes on their bizarre American Victory Tour. Where else should they find themselves on Thanksgiving, the night before they are shipped back to Iraq, than as half-time entertainment at a Dallas Cowboys Football Game. With sharp, clear characters, this novel both entertains and skewers the cultural ideals that got us to Iraq in the first place. ...more A brilliant novel about war that takes place far from the field of battle at the annual Dallas Cowboys Thanksgiving Day football game, the culmination of a \u201cvictory tour\u201d for a squad of young grunts whose heroic actions in Iraq have made them a marketable commodity to drum up support for the war. Hilariously skewers the culture of instant celebrity, politics, patriotism and power, and poignantly conveys the senselessness of sending young men to war. My father was 17 when he enlisted in the Navy during WW II.. As an enlisted sailor he met my mother. They corresponded throughout his years at sea and were married at the end of the war, when he was 21. I have his letters to my mother while he was at sea. Why am I telling you this? This is a review of Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk, a novel about a 19 year old virgin hero who is being redeployed to Iraq. He has been to visit his Texas family and now is being paraded in front of the American peo My father was 17 when he enlisted in the Navy during WW II.. As an enlisted sailor he met my mother. They corresponded throughout his years at sea and were married at the end of the war, when he was 21. I have his letters to my mother while he was at sea. Why am I telling you this? This is a review of Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk, a novel about a 19 year old virgin hero who is being redeployed to Iraq. He has been to visit his Texas family and now is being paraded in front of the American people in a half time extravaganza along with Beyonce. Billy enlisted to get out of a jail sentence. My father wanted to stop the Holocaust. Billy drinks numerous Jack Daniel and beers to steel himself against the bigwigs and millionaires who own the football team, the concessions, the merchandise sold in the concessions and lots of Texas. These millionaires thank Billy and his Bravo brethren by giving each of them a football and access to the team for autographs. They also offer them $5,500 each for their glorious story. I can't tell you how many letters my father mentioned how he and his friends had set up their own distilleries on board. It was a lot. What do young men need to fill up the hours and pump up the bravado? My father was lucky because, unlike Billy, he knew that the war he was fighting had to be fought. My father was not given the opportunity to see how the millionaires squandered money on football uniforms, sneakers, and fancy elite boxes. I'm sure the Roosevelt's , the Kennedy's and lots of other millionaires continued to conspicuously spend while my grandparents from the Bronx and Brooklyn were using ration cards. Neither Billy nor my father had ever vacationed or traveled before their military journeys. Billy meets a cheerleader and falls in love. She is beautiful, voluptuous and easy. He knows that she will never wait for him and he wonders if he will make it home. His sister begs him to go AWOL. My father met my mother who was beautiful and probably difficult. I don't know what they thought. I'm pretty no one suggested that he go AWOL. Too bad they never discussed how difficult it was for my father to leave and for my mother to wait. I honestly can remember no war stories. The millionaires, Norm and his associates, want to steal Billy's war story and bring it to the silver screen. For Billy and the men of Bravo, the show behind the show is sobering. They will not be sold like peanuts and popcorn to American public which wants to be voyeurs on a deadly raid. ...more I can't say that I've ever read a Texas stream of consciousness novel before. It's a bit like taking Leopold Bloom and transplanting him to Dallas. Billy Lynn isn't like Bloom, though; he isn't a Dublin do-nothing who gets a buzz out of seeing a girl's ankles. Instead, he's an Iraq War hero on a p.r. tour for the Army and the day in question isn't June 16 (I'm three days late with this review). It's Thanksgiving Day at a Dallas Cowboys football game and Lynn gets a rise out of the ample flesh of I can't say that I've ever read a Texas stream of consciousness novel before. It's a bit like taking Leopold Bloom and transplanting him to Dallas. Billy Lynn isn't like Bloom, though; he isn't a Dublin do-nothing who gets a buzz out of seeing a girl's ankles. Instead, he's an Iraq War hero on a p.r. tour for the Army and the day in question isn't June 16 (I'm three days late with this review). It's Thanksgiving Day at a Dallas Cowboys football game and Lynn gets a rise out of the ample flesh of some Cowboys cheerleaders. This novel takes a good 100 pages to get going, but once it hits its stride it's very funny. Mr. Fountain knows his way around a sentence. Billy Lynn is also far more incisive and thoughtful than Leopold Bloom, and while that awareness allows the novel to examine American society and culture in some detail, it's a bit of a leap. Billy is nineteen. How insightful can a nineteen year old be anyway? Ben Fountain does a wonderful job chronicling the interplay between Billy and his troopmates as they do their best to put a good face on a questionable war (Aren't all wars questionable?) while at the same time trying to secure a movie deal for their story of bravery. If you're a conservative war hawk or a Dallas Cowboys fan, I suggest that you stay away from this book. It will be too cynical for you. But if you like careful, comic writing, it's worth a read even though like probably all stream of consciousness novels (including Ulysses), it's a little long winded. ...more I\u2019m not the imploring type--but please, do anything you can to read this novel. It\u2019s one of the best I\u2019ve read in years, and Ben Fountain\u2019s writing is so miraculously good that you can\u2019t help but page through large swaths of it in slack-jawed amazement. It\u2019s been six years since Ben gave us Brief Encounters with Che Guevara (still one of my favorite story collections), and it\u2019s been well worth the wait. I wanted to write a long review here, because the novel\u2019s worthy of so much meaty discussion- I\u2019m not the imploring type--but please, do anything you can to read this novel. It\u2019s one of the best I\u2019ve read in years, and Ben Fountain\u2019s writing is so miraculously good that you can\u2019t help but page through large swaths of it in slack-jawed amazement. It\u2019s been six years since Ben gave us Brief Encounters with Che Guevara (still one of my favorite story collections), and it\u2019s been well worth the wait. I wanted to write a long review here, because the novel\u2019s worthy of so much meaty discussion--how sharply (and often hilariously) it grapples with the absurdities of war, politics, pop culture, sports, religion, and youth--but the simplest thing I can say is that to not read it would be to deprive yourself of an incredible experience. It\u2019s the kind of novel that makes you say, \u201cHell yes. This is why I read fiction.\u201d ...more Fountain has a wonderfully engaging writing style, it bubbles along, mixing philosophical musings with pop cultural ephemera, and an eye for the wry telling detail. His characters are human in scale and sympathetic. Why only three stars? Well, for one, nothing happens in this book -- it is one comic but moving set piece after another all taking place over the course of a single football game. You keep waiting for the book's little murmurings of plot to build to a narrative flow, and that never q Fountain has a wonderfully engaging writing style, it bubbles along, mixing philosophical musings with pop cultural ephemera, and an eye for the wry telling detail. His characters are human in scale and sympathetic. Why only three stars? Well, for one, nothing happens in this book -- it is one comic but moving set piece after another all taking place over the course of a single football game. You keep waiting for the book's little murmurings of plot to build to a narrative flow, and that never quite happens. In part, that's OK, because the book is partly about the decisions made in the interstices, the little reactions and feelings that together depict a life. But it does make the book drag a bit. ...more I have an automatic affection for late bloomer Ben Fountain, author of numerous works that didn\u2019t exactly receive the mainstream public\u2019s attention, although he is already considered a man of at least a few letters. He\u2019s also a Texas resident, which I certainly relate to, and a satirist, which there\u2019s always room for in warmongering America. His debut novel pointedly skewers the way the Iraq war was bought and sold to the American public and brings me back to that first day in March, 2003, where I have an automatic affection for late bloomer Ben Fountain, author of numerous works that didn\u2019t exactly receive the mainstream public\u2019s attention, although he is already considered a man of at least a few letters. He\u2019s also a Texas resident, which I certainly relate to, and a satirist, which there\u2019s always room for in warmongering America. His debut novel pointedly skewers the way the Iraq war was bought and sold to the American public and brings me back to that first day in March, 2003, where the high-def, high-tech pre-emptive strike was waged and unabashedly played out in every TV across the nation. The year is not stated, but it\u2019s the Bush administration\u2014probably the first one, circa 2004 or so. Billy Lynn is a 19-year-old reluctant soldier, who joined the Army for the same reason a number of young men joined\u2014to escape criminal prosecution in the civilian world (for defending his sister from her crazy ex). He and his fellow soldiers in what is now known by the media as the Bravo Squad fought some Iraqi insurgents in a deadly firefight, and they are now home for the two-week Victory Tour before the next deployment. The shootout was caught by Fox news on tape and shown over and over and over again to the American public as a way to galvanize support for the war. Like \u201cNina Levin.\u201d The Tour culminates at a Thanksgiving Dallas Cowboys football game at the Dallas Stadium, where the fans will be all agog for Bravo\u2019s walk across the stadium during halftime\u2014the pageantry fit for the gregariously complacent. And they will get to share the stage with the hot and sexy Destiny\u2019s Child all-female band. Fountain\u2019s use of absurdity to demonstrate the patronizing and safe-distance reverence for these soldiers is worthy of Orwellian and Huxleyesque appreciation for the culture of commercial cheese, sexual promiscuity, and the confined, narrow nature of a certain sector of Americans. Fountain lampoons the shallow spectacle of flag-waving patriotism and sheeple-speak, and the amped-up gusto of modern warfare and its supporters. Much of the novel takes place in Billy\u2019s interior landscape of the mind, as he struggles to reconcile the American media\u2019s manipulation of war and heroism, and the questions he asks himself daily about life and death are reflected in the events of the day at the game. As all these corporate giants and media moguls and everyday people are cheering him on, he is naggingly aware, on some level, of the ghastly exploitation occurring on their behalf. They are joined by a movie producer trying to make a Hollywood movie of their shootout at al-Ansakar Canal, but it is evident that the heroes are just chattel to be traded for money and power\u2014regardless of whether the Bravo Squad is enriched and personally rewarded. There\u2019s even talk of Hilary Swank playing a major role in the movie, as one of the men. The producer is itching to get big celebrities on board, even if it suffocates the true meaning and truth of Bravo\u2019s soldiers. The hypocrisy is flowing like the beer, and the press and corporate giants don\u2019t even flinch when the soldiers are asked so cavalierly about private, painful moments. Their combat experience is hideously twisted by the set up pageantry. The characters, for the most part, are mouthpieces for the author, which can get heavy-handed. However, the Cowboy\u2019s owner, Norm Oglesby, is worth ten of the others, as he is a stellar, flawless, hilarious send-up of Jerry Jones. The red hair, the over-plasticized plastic surgery, and the despotic arrogance are impeccable. But the second part of the novel, rather than contour the story, is mostly rhetoric. The thin plotlines and resolution could have been easily squeezed into a short story or novella. However, the prose is sterling, full of muscle and fiber and energy, with dazzling narrative riffs that had me gobsmacked at intervals. \u201c\u2026and he wonders by what process virtually any discussion about the war seems to profane these ultimate matters of life and death. As if to talk of such things properly we need a mode of speech near the equal of prayer, otherwise just shut, shut your yap and sit on it, silence being truer to the experience than the star-spangled spasm, the bittersweet sob, the redeeming hug, or whatever this fucking closure is that everyone\u2019s talking about.\u201d Another reviewer called this novel quintessentially American. I would have to heartily agree. Compared to Gary Shtyngart\u2019s Super Sad True Love Story, it comes up short in story, characters, and original setting, and the message is a bit too repetitive. And yet\u2026and yet\u2026it is a valid verdict of our times. ...more It's 2007 or 2008, and the bloom is well off the Iraq War rose when news footage of a confused squad-level engagement vaults the surviving members of Bravo Squad into national celebrity. The Bush Administration trots them around swing states on a two-week \"Victory Tour,\" the latest in its endless attempts to portray the war as something other than a bloody fiasco. The last stop is Dallas and an appearance at the Cowboys' Thanksgiving Day game. This is where we meet Bravo, through the confused an It's 2007 or 2008, and the bloom is well off the Iraq War rose when news footage of a confused squad-level engagement vaults the surviving members of Bravo Squad into national celebrity. The Bush Administration trots them around swing states on a two-week \"Victory Tour,\" the latest in its endless attempts to portray the war as something other than a bloody fiasco. The last stop is Dallas and an appearance at the Cowboys' Thanksgiving Day game. This is where we meet Bravo, through the confused and overwhelmed eyes of 19-year-old Specialist Billy Lynn. The story of that day and all that led Billy and his Army brothers-in-arms to it is told not through straightforward narrative but through a tour de force of near-stream-of-consciousness word purge, a swirl of hopes, dreams, fears, bewilderment, anger, disgust, horniness and loneliness. Billy, a native of hardscrabble East Texas, is exactly what you'd expect a young man in his position to be: now a teenager, next a prematurely aged man, seeking guidance and strength from anyone who happens to be a few years older or even marginally wiser. He reveres his squad leader, SSGT Dime, while wondering whether the good sergeant really knows what he's doing; he bitterly misses \"Shroom,\" a fellow squaddie and casualty of the firefight, who seemed to have all the answers, even if there weren't questions for them. In between, Billy does the things young men do after learning about mortality: he gets drunk, suffers from hangovers, sticks like Velcro to the now-men who have experienced what he has, acts out, and tries to cure a festering case of virginity. Author Fountain nails Billy's voice. So too does he nail the rest of Bravo, a modern-day grab bag of country and ghetto boys of all colors whose only common trait is that infantry duty in Iraq is better than any options available to them back home. They brag, they swear, they give each other merciless shit, they say inappropriate things about and to women of all ages, they fight and get stoned and cry when it all gets too much. I've met these guys; I saw them on their in-theater R&R in Qatar, rescued a few of them from the clutches of the USO, took them to dinner and sightseeing. Fountain got them mostly right, a great trick for someone who wasn't one of them. The plot? It isn't much -- Bravo stumbles from one encounter to another with an America that's become surreal to them. The superabundance of food, of stuff, of money, contrasts glaringly with their Spartan existence downrange and with that of the Iraqis whose lives they disrupt every day. There's also a superabundance of need -- for reassurance (the repeated, childlike pleas: \"Are we winning?\" \"Is it getting better?\"), for hope, for validation -- that the people the Bravos meet turn to the soldiers to fill, and which the Bravos (who have their own glaring needs) can't begin to address. They also encounter profound cluelessness about the war among the civilians, the idea that it's a computer game or the action movie that the Bravos' Hollywood agent keeps trying to piece together as they navigate the orgiastic football game and halftime show the Bravos have been press-ganged into joining. In my review of Fobbit , I said we might have to wait another ten years before we get our first great novel about the Iraq War. Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk might be it. It's a war story in which no shots are fired in anger; indeed, the war is many thousands of miles away in physical space, and on another planet in the mental space of most of the characters who populate this novel. Yet it says so much about the war, the men and women who fought in it, and the country that sent them there. It could in many ways be The Best Years of Our Lives for a new generation. If you're a True Believer in the Iraq War, you'll find plenty to hate here, but everyone else ought to get something from this novel. ...more It\u2019s Thanksgiving Day and halftime for nineteen-year-old Billy Lynn\u2019s tour of duty in Iraq. Billy and his fellow Bravos are on a two week \u201cVictory Tour\u201d stateside due to acts of valor in Iraq that were filmed and widely viewed on TV and online. The Bravos are heroes and everyone wants to bask in their glory. Hillary Swank is interested in portraying either Billy or his sergeant in a Hollywood film version. Dubya greets them in the White House before their other scheduled stops in swing states. T It\u2019s Thanksgiving Day and halftime for nineteen-year-old Billy Lynn\u2019s tour of duty in Iraq. Billy and his fellow Bravos are on a two week \u201cVictory Tour\u201d stateside due to acts of valor in Iraq that were filmed and widely viewed on TV and online. The Bravos are heroes and everyone wants to bask in their glory. Hillary Swank is interested in portraying either Billy or his sergeant in a Hollywood film version. Dubya greets them in the White House before their other scheduled stops in swing states. Two days before the Bravos are due to return to Iraq to finish their tour of duty, they are feted by America\u2019s team in Dallas, home to the Cowboys football franchise, and are expected to share star billing during the halftime show with Destiny\u2019s Child. That\u2019s the setup. The payoff is Fountain\u2019s exquisite sense of irony. We see Billy and his fellow soldiers, grunts paid about $15,000 a year for their part in the War Against Terror juxtaposed against professional football players who make millions for entertainment purposes. The NFLers want to know what it\u2019s like to cap someone and volunteer to help out for a while but recoil from the idea of enlisting because \u201cthis here our job , how you think we gonna quit our job go join some nigga\u2019s army? Fah like, wha, three years ? Break our contract and all?\u201d The Cowboys owner is a mixture of righteousness and ruthlessness. His speech on the perils of Saddam Hussein sounds suspiciously like more domestic villains: \u201cA man . . . who built palaces for his personal pleasure while schools decayed and his country\u2019s health care system collapsed. Who maintained one of the world\u2019s most expensive armies while he allowed his nation\u2019s infrastructure to crumble. Who channeled resources to his cronies and political allies allowing them to siphon off much of the country\u2019s wealth for their own personal gain.\u201d And, oh! The cheerleaders! Billy falls hard for Faison, beautiful (even in pancake makeup), soft, and sweet smelling. With her amber colored hair, she reminded me of the woman in John Prine\u2019s Great Compromise : I knew a girl who was almost a lady She had a way with all the men in her life Every inch of her blossomed in beauty And she was born on the fourth of July Billy comes to see that the homeland dream is what matters most to Americans, even as it overwhelms his personal reality of war. The homeland dream is the dominant reality. Billy loves, hopes, yearns, and finally accepts. America needs heroes and ideals of heroism, just at a safe distance. This is a brilliant book. ...more", "Title": "Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk"},
