{"Comments": "\"No! Ashley! Put the book away!\" \"But Mooooom! I'm at the part where he kills-\" \"I don't care! It's two in the morning! Go to sleep!\" She snatched the book one of Rangers Apprentice, <+++>The Ruins of Gorlan</+++> right out of my hands. She told me goodnight and slammed the door behind her. Snap. That's the third time this week she took it from me. I was at the good part too! Well, it's all good.<---F> The action,<---M> the adventure</---M>, the surprises</---F>. My favorite part, especially, when the boys got in a fight. <---C>Will</---C> and Hor \"No! Ashley! Put the book away!\" \"But Mooooom! I'm at the part where he kills-\" \"I don't care! It's two in the morning! Go to sleep!\" She snatched the book one of Rangers Apprentice, <+++>The Ruins of Gorlan</+++> right out of my hands. She told me goodnight and slammed the door behind her. Snap. That's the third time this week she took it from me. I was at the good part too! Well, it's all good. The action, the adventure, the surprises. My favorite part, especially, when the boys got in a fight. Will and Horace. Brilliant! Will is a fifteen year old boy with no parents. He lives in the Ward with his friends: Alyss, Jennifer, George and Horace. Sadly, when you live in the Ward you are orphans and you basically take care of yourself. But Will's past is a mystery. He was found in a basket with a note saying only that his mother died giving birth and his father was a Hero. In this land, when you think or the word \"Hero\" you think of a knight and the only way to become a knight is battle school. Sadly, Will does not make it to battle school so he believes his life will be one of a farmer. Until, a Ranger comes and hold the key to his destiny in a piece of paper. Will finds the paper and sees that he is to become the one thing people happen to fear. A Ranger. Oh man, just thinking about the beginning made me excited! Remembering the dangers Will has to face like Wargals and Kalkaras who do nothing but the bidding of Moragrath, the bad guy. Then the suspense of wondering if a life is taken or if will can save Halt. The best part of it all though; you never know exactly what's going to happen next. It's full of action, adventure, and soon to be revealed mysteries. Yeah, if it sounds like your kind of fantasy book then read it! But, be sure you don't read it till two in the morning or your mom will take it away and, trust me, you won't want to put it down once you pick it up! ...more It\u2019s been a while since I read a classic sword and sorcery fantasy novel, but I enjoyed this one a lot. In fact, it had no sorcery at all, which was kind of refreshing. It was a believable, well-grounded alternate medieval earth. In Flanagan\u2019s world, young wards of the state have to choose professions, and Will is reluctantly recruited to become a ranger. The relationship between Will and his Battleschool rival is particularly well portrayed, and Will\u2019s training as a ranger makes for great readi It\u2019s been a while since I read a classic sword and sorcery fantasy novel, but I enjoyed this one a lot. In fact, it had no sorcery at all, which was kind of refreshing. It was a believable, well-grounded alternate medieval earth. In Flanagan\u2019s world, young wards of the state have to choose professions, and Will is reluctantly recruited to become a ranger. The relationship between Will and his Battleschool rival is particularly well portrayed, and Will\u2019s training as a ranger makes for great reading. The novel was a bit long on the explanations for my taste -- a lot of telling about the characters especially at the beginning when showing would have sufficed -- but that did not stop me from enjoying the book. On a purely technical note, this was one of the few books I\u2019ve read that uses third-person omniscient point-of-view and actually pulls it off. We know what most of the characters are thinking all the time, and yet it doesn\u2019t get confusing. I will definitely look for the rest of this series. ...more 3.5 stars. Yippee\u2026Hooray.....EXCELSIOR\u2026. I found a quality YA fantasy story that I really liked. Before reading this, I had been in a bit of a slump with this sub-genre and had been considering a permanent separation. Thank goodness my literary guidance counselor asked me to give it one more try and recommended this book. I am very happy I stuck with it. I really liked this story and was surprised with how quickly and effortlessly, I go sucked into the narrative. Now, granted, this book is inc 3.5 stars. Yippee\u2026Hooray.....EXCELSIOR\u2026. I found a quality YA fantasy story that I really liked. Before reading this, I had been in a bit of a slump with this sub-genre and had been considering a permanent separation. Thank goodness my literary guidance counselor asked me to give it one more try and recommended this book. I am very happy I stuck with it. I really liked this story and was surprised with how quickly and effortlessly, I go sucked into the narrative. Now, granted, this book is incredibly \u201cderivative\u201d of all of the fantasy that has come before it and there is nothing here that I could point to and say, \u201cah, now that is a very unique concept.\u201d In fact, before reading this story, I thought that this lack of newness might have been my problem with the whole sub-genre. I was wrong. Turns out I was just looking for a well-told story with an engaging cast of characters. I found them both here. I really liked the tone of the narrative and the pace was absolutely perfect. It never felt rushed and yet moved along without a dull moment despite having to introduce the world of the series to the reader (<---B>something that often hampers pacing in a \u201cfirst\u201d book</---B>). I also genuinely liked the characters from Will and Horace and the Ranger Halt and the Baron, Sir Rodney. Finally,\u00a0 I found the fantasy elements to be well-done if standard. This book proved to me that I wasn\u2019t necessarily burned out on YA fantasy books but that I just wasn\u2019t enjoying the one\u2019s I was reading. While I don\u2019t think I will immediately read the next book in the series, I will certainly buy it and keep it on the short-list for the next time I reach for this kind of story. I hearty well done and thank you to the author <---A>John Flanagan</---A>.\u00a0 You have restored my faith in an entire genre. P.S. I listened to the audio of this book read by John Keating and he did an absolutely PERFECT job. His tone and voice added a significant about of enjoyment to the story. I highly recommend it for fans of audio books. ...more This book was a pleasant surprise for me; I really had no expectations going in and I didn't read anyone's reviews beforehand so I ended up being completely blindsided by this awesome story, which is definitely a good thing! I'll admit I wasn't expecting much, I figured I'd get a good time-waster and a fun story, but I never thought I'd be moved to tears by the honor, loyalty, and friendships forged within. This is the story of Will, an orphan raised with fellow wardmates, and it tells the tale o This book was a pleasant surprise for me; I really had no expectations going in and I didn't read anyone's reviews beforehand so I ended up being completely blindsided by this awesome story, which is definitely a good thing! I'll admit I wasn't expecting much, I figured I'd get a good time-waster and a fun story, but I never thought I'd be moved to tears by the honor, loyalty, and friendships forged within. This is the story of Will, an orphan raised with fellow wardmates, and it tells the tale of his growth into a young man and Ranger, who are the eyes and ears for the fiefdom. At a certain age the castle wards each must choose a Craftmaster to study under, such as the castle's chef, Horsemaster, or Battlemaster. Young Will is a bit scrawny but he has always dreamt of becoming a mighty knight, because although he never knew his father he believes he died the heroic death of a brave knight. Unfortunately, the Baron has other plans for Will, and even though he's crestfallen at not being able to enter Battleschool, he has a much more important fate awaiting him: the Rangers. Will is a great character - not too smart, not too cocky, not too bratty - but full of heart. In the beginning we get to meet him when he's still living with his friends before they've all chosen their crafts and it's shown that the kids don't always get along. There's a particular boy, Horace, who bullies Will relentlessly. Will isn't exactly an angel though as he ends up mouthing off to Horace and riling him up constantly. These two are at each other's throats for the majority of the book and it's fascinating watching their relationship change and mature. Two of the scenes with these boys were the ones that made me tear up. I don't know why it got to me, but their camaraderie really turned into something special in the end. I also really enjoyed Will's budding master-apprentice relationship with the Ranger, Halt. Halt is a prickly character who (almost) never smiles. He's brutal on Will but he does so because he sees his potential. The last scene with these two at the end was another one that filled me with emotion because I couldn't help but feel proud for the two of them myself. Will's point of view is the main one throughout most of the book, but we do get glimpses of what's going on in other characters' heads, and up until the halfway point almost each chapter switches back and forth between Will and Horace, though that didn't bother me at all. I really enjoyed the fact that even the horses, as well as some of the monsters, had thoughts that we were privy to, and I think this added some depth to the tale without being overwhelming or difficult to follow. There are some really great themes throughout this story that I think are great for kids to read about. There's the aforementioned bullying and teasing that eventually gets resolved, there's emphasis on hard work and discipline, and there's the stress placed on following your gut and doing what's right. There are also monsters, archery, sword fighting, learning to sneak around unseen like an assassin, and all sorts of fun stuff that boys (and some girls) enjoy reading about. I think this would be a great book for reluctant readers since it's action-packed, suspenseful, and heartwarming as well. It's the type of book you can't put down because you need to know what happens next. I really loved this book and I had no idea the wonderful story that it contained. This is a middle grade epic fantasy that I think people of all ages can enjoy, and I highly recommend you give it a shot. ...more I've never been one of those guys with lots of friends. Actually, I kind of always had to turn to book characters to cover my lack of real relationships. Thus, in the first year of college, when I discovered this series, I couldn't have been more glad for it. The first reason is that I felt that I could relate to the protagonist after only a few pages. Will is, at first, a solitary little kid who doesn't know his place in the world. His situation only gets worse when the time for him to be chosen I've never been one of those guys with lots of friends. Actually, I kind of always had to turn to book characters to cover my lack of real relationships. Thus, in the first year of college, when I discovered this series, I couldn't have been more glad for it. The first reason is that I felt that I could relate to the protagonist after only a few pages. Will is, at first, a solitary little kid who doesn't know his place in the world. His situation only gets worse when the time for him to be chosen by one of the task masters of the castle approaches. What he didn't know is that his destiny was not to be an orthodox worker for the realm. Despite him not knowing why, he is chosen to be one of the realm's rangers, men that are responsible for the strategical defense of the land. One of the strongest traits about Flanagan, as I see it, is that he really takes his time writing his story. Nothing feels rushed and crammed, so you can actually perceive character's development. As soon as Will finds out what he is supposed to be, he brings out his utmost dedication to learn how to be a ranger. By following Halt's teachings, he soon becomes visibly one of the most promising young apprentices of his age. What he couldn't possibly have known is that his skills would soon be tested as an evil force that seriously threatens the King's well being approaches the realm. Despite the adventures, what I remember liking the most about this book is the growing father-son relationship between Will and Halt. As I never had a close relationship with my own father, I always find this kind of story really touching. Also, the level of detail on Flanagan's descriptions of scenario and atmosphere are really good. As in perfect balanced good. He describes just enough so you can get a clear picture of the scene without being smashed by useless amounts of detail, as sometimes happens in other fantasy/fiction books. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: \u201cPeople will think what they want to,\" he said quietly. Never take too much notice of it.\u201d ...more I wrote this review quite some time ago but I had to come back and improve it a little after reading several other books of this wonderful series. I am officially a big fan! I read many positive reviews before picking up this book and I was afraid that I might be too old for actually enjoying this. I was WRONG! This book was such a pleasant surprise and definitely deserves all the positive reviews. I didn't find the beginning of this story very original but my opinion changed very quickly as the s I wrote this review quite some time ago but I had to come back and improve it a little after reading several other books of this wonderful series. I am officially a big fan! I read many positive reviews before picking up this book and I was afraid that I might be too old for actually enjoying this. I was WRONG! This book was such a pleasant surprise and definitely deserves all the positive reviews. I didn't find the beginning of this story very original but my opinion changed very quickly as the story developed. This book begins the story of Will, an orphaned boy with his own dreams and insecurities who struggles with who he is and who he wants to be. The entire series is a tale of his growth into a young confidant man, finding his right place in the world. I have to say that the author does a brilliant job with his young characters' gradual growth. Many characters are slowly added to the story as the series progresses and it's quite wonderful to see them all change and help each other grow, from young ones to grownup adults. There are many memorable characters that I have come to really like! Back to the story of this book, the most pleasant surprise for me was when the book switched from Will's point of view to Horace's. I did not expect that at all! The story immediately became very different and unique and showed great potential for improvement. It was quite wonderful to read about such realistic characters in a well-thought fantasy world. Thanks to the POVs, we get to see that Will, while a very lovely and pleasant boy, isn't really an angel. He too can be mean or selfish. We also find out that the boy he doesn't like is not the devil himself. Life isn't exactly black and white and it moved me that this book managed to show that with such a simple but fascinating story. It's nice that we also get to know what's in other characters' heads which definitely makes the story much more pleasant and easier to follow. I did not find the story rushed and characters grow the way they should. The main characters are children after all and it's nice that they stay as one while growing considerably and they don't end up taking missions to save the world single-handedly. I am always annoyed when that happens and there isn't a single adult in the big picture! What I loved the most while reading this book was the relationship between Will and Horace AND how it gradually changed and matured, becoming something very special at the end. The Master-Apprentice relationship between Will and Halt is also very adorable and I have come to really like this gloomy ranger who never smiles!XD The ending scene was perfect for this story. I find it very beautiful when young individuals come to see the truth of their existence and choose it over their childish dreams or who they think they should be to find any acceptance or approval. I recommend this book to those who are looking for a fun and light fantasy book with beautiful concepts such as true friendship and honor hidden in the pages of it. ...more 3.5 stars rounded down Will, a fifteen year old orphan, has been raised among other orphans his entire life. Will was found on a doorstep as a baby with nothing but a note with his first name and that his father was a hero. All of Will\u2019s life he holds onto this fact and hopes one day to join the Battleschool in order to become a great warrior like his father. On the day that all of the skilled masters choose their apprentices, Will applies for and is rejected by the Battleschool. But he passes 3.5 stars rounded down Will, a fifteen year old orphan, has been raised among other orphans his entire life. Will was found on a doorstep as a baby with nothing but a note with his first name and that his father was a hero. All of Will\u2019s life he holds onto this fact and hopes one day to join the Battleschool in order to become a great warrior like his father. On the day that all of the skilled masters choose their apprentices, Will applies for and is rejected by the Battleschool. But he passes a test he was unaware of, and becomes and apprentice to the local Ranger, Halt. Will goes to live with Halt and learns a myriad of new skills from archery to cooking to being stealthy. But soon, a threat faces the kingdom Will lives in and he must accompany Halt to fight a returned evil. This is a fantastic book for tween boys. Will and the other characters spend the beginning of the book feeling like they do not belong where they are, a struggle for many young tweens. There is a lot of detail on fighting and weapons, all things that young Rangers and warriors would need to know and that young boys are interested in. S ometimes, the time lapses were very strange, such as some events were written in great detail, just for the author to elapse time very quickly after. But the plot was good, the story of a young boy who faces his self doubts and becomes a strong and confident young man. It teaches the reader that if they work hard and tell the truth that good things will come to them and that they will have honor. The character development of Will and Horace is one of the best parts of the book, Will finds his confidence, and Horace discovers the importance of perseverance and loyal friendship. The villain was not present for much of the book, but he is a strong one and obviously is the Voldemort equivalent of this series. This book is a strong start to a series, and it is clear that the following books in the series will only get better. ***Just a small note, this review is geared toward my tween advisory project, so it will written a bit differently than my normal reviews. If you are a friend and would like to see the tween advisory blog, please pm me. Thanks!*** ...more As I've almost reached eighteen years of age I've tended to drift away from reading YA fiction. I read mostly classics or more adult fiction nowadays. And yet there are some series which are capable of bridging age gaps despite having been written for a younger audience. I believe the best stories can cover all age brackets making them accessible to a wide audience. This novel is one of those books in my opinion. Or at least the development of the series is. I could spend time reviewing the entir As I've almost reached eighteen years of age I've tended to drift away from reading YA fiction. I read mostly classics or more adult fiction nowadays. And yet there are some series which are capable of bridging age gaps despite having been written for a younger audience. I believe the best stories can cover all age brackets making them accessible to a wide audience. This novel is one of those books in my opinion. Or at least the development of the series is. I could spend time reviewing the entire series but I'll stick to reviewing the first novel from the perspective of the series. The Ruins of Gorlan is a good novel but it does draw very strongly on other fantasy novels such as Lord of the Rings in the creation of its Warguls and Morgarath. Yet what is most impressive about the series is that it develops from then on. From the third book onwards the series branches out into a world of its own that draws upon our history to establish its own thrilling tales. The world of the Ranger's Apprentice books becomes not dissimilar from a middle-ages version of our own. There is an England replacement, a Japan replacement, a French replacement, a land of viking like people and a whole load more of exotic races and lands. There is no magic really in the series strictly. Although I must state that Morgarath uses a sort of psychic link with his Wargul forces to control them. The lack of magic makes for a refreshingly different fantasy read. I enjoy the world John Flanagan has created but what really keeps me buying the books is the characters he's created. Each individual has his or her own personality. The women are not weak or mindless characters either which is a refreshing change. But back on that you have: Will who is basically more of a trickster and uses lots of words; Horace who's a laconic kind of character and tends to be a methodical thinker; Alys the quick thinking and astute woman; Halt the grizzled old ranger who is perhaps my favourite character with his wry wit and grimmer attitude; and a whole ton of characters I can't describe without ruining the story. I'd read these books for the characters and their interactions alone because they are stellar. These are books I believe adults and youth can read. My mum's a fan of them and I've been a fan ever since I picked up the first novel in grade eight. I would have been about thirteen... So if you haven't read this series begin because even though there is ten or so books each can easily be read in a day. Actually each can easily be read in a day because they are simply so engrossing. 14th June 2012 Note: I have to feel a sense of glee over the fact that I got my sister, who reads very few series in a row - in fact she rarely reads many series or many books - hooked on this series. She's reading her fifth one right now and she's been racing through them. The next stage of the plan will be to introduce her to Lord of the Rings hehehe and then maybe one day she'll read as much as I do and as much as my mother does. ...more I kept picking up mentions of these books here and there, so finally got a copy from my library. Also, I have a soft spot for Rangers. Blame Professor T. It was a bit cruel to this book to read it in the middle of a reread of Megan Whalen Turner's The Thief series, because the contrasts in quality rather jumped out at one. I was inclined to spot it a few points because it was its author's first book, till I reflected that so was The Thief . On the other hand, while Turner's book is classified YA, I kept picking up mentions of these books here and there, so finally got a copy from my library. Also, I have a soft spot for Rangers. Blame Professor T. It was a bit cruel to this book to read it in the middle of a reread of Megan Whalen Turner's The Thief series, because the contrasts in quality rather jumped out at one. I was inclined to spot it a few points because it was its author's first book, till I reflected that so was The Thief . On the other hand, while Turner's book is classified YA, this one is clearly labeled \"Children's Fiction\" by the Hennepin County Library, so I think it is aimed at (and probably hits) a younger target audience, the \"chapter book\" crowd in librarian parlance. The start of a coming-of-age adventure series, The Ruins of Gorlan chronicles the initial education of Will, a young orphan raised as a ward of his baron in a sort of generic alternate-England-like scene similar to the one so well described by Diana Wynne Jones in her The Tough Guide to Fantasyland . Will, in a scene that reminded me of the opening to Pratchett's classic Mort , is chosen, last and least, to be apprenticed by an unexpected patron, the grim Ranger Halt. Despite a depth of worldbuilding similar to an RPG game, a tin ear for language and history that includes kilometers and potatoes in this medievaloid setting (well, all right, I probably have to allow him the potatoes, since Tolkien gets away with them), and horses that run like cars, the author manages to endow his collection of stereotypes with increasing charm as the book runs its short course. The pacing and the action scenes are good. It is all very blokey, as if the last half of the 20th century never happened, which, it might be argued, in this world it hasn't. There are a couple of girl characters among the set of five wards we meet at the beginning, but they drop out (along with the scholarly boy) till the end, when they bring pies and a first kiss as rewards for the two action-boy heroes the story does follow. I don't know if their tales are picked up later in the series. If it is the case, as mentioned on the back flap (but occluded by a library tag), that the author wrote it first for his son, much is explained and might charitably be forgiven. But I did get flashbacks to my older brother's Boys' Life magazines, which I used to snitch and read back in the late 50s. Nevertheless, one must wonder how such a society manages to reproduce with so few women. Perhaps they practice polyandry. (Later, I ran a quick check to see if, given the gender imbalance, there was Ranger's Apprentice slash. Well, of course there is. There is slash for Edwin Abbott's Flatland , too. I leave you to contemplate this.) Also, just a tip -- never, ever, ever contract to become the mother of a hero. You will have a remarkably short lifespan even by medievaloid standards. In the extremely unlikely event that you do survive childbirth, you will certainly be taken out before your heroic offspring hits puberty. Just sayin'. Not recommended for jaded fantasy readers defensive about their intellectual status, Gorlan is doubtless just fine for chapter-book readers first venturing into the world of books without pictures, likely to keep them coming back for more, which is just what we want. I would have eaten it up in 5th grade myself, despite not being a boy (and only in part because I was oblivious to such gender-political concerns back then.) I might well read some more of these, if only to see how the writer develops with practice. And also to find out if the girls' lives ever get any air time -- the author does have daughters as well, I see. Ta, L. ...more 3.5 Ruins of Gorlan was a book I read when I first started high school, which was in 2010, I think. I graduated last year so I refuse to acknowledge maths. It's a book I've hunted for a while now, and I'm so glad to have my hands on it that it's ridiculous. I did have problems with this book during my re-read though. Maybe because it's a middle grade book, probably not. However, this book reads like an introductory novel. We barely get much action but are instead introduced to the world of the st 3.5 Ruins of Gorlan was a book I read when I first started high school, which was in 2010, I think. I graduated last year so I refuse to acknowledge maths. It's a book I've hunted for a while now, and I'm so glad to have my hands on it that it's ridiculous. I did have problems with this book during my re-read though. Maybe because it's a middle grade book, probably not. However, this book reads like an introductory novel. We barely get much action but are instead introduced to the world of the story. The story we have is about a 15 year old orphan named Will. In his kingdom when a ward of the Baron turns 15 there is a chance for craft masters to take on apprentices, to train them to be a great knight, cook, or diplomat. Will, a small boy, has his eyes set on being a knight. However, when the Choosing Day comes he is not given a position that will grant him knighthood, he is however chosen by the mysterious Ranger - a craft no one knows much about bar from the Rangers. It is rumoured they know magic from the way they blend into the shadows. At first, Will has an aversion to the position. But, as Halt, his master, and him grow closer he learns to love his craft. That is basically the plot of this particular book. We get several perspectives in the book, but the two which continue to pop up are Horace, a ward who Will grew up with, and Will. Also, despite the plot being slightly boring, the descriptions are beautiful and the characters are developed beautifully. For example, the Baron, and the fact no one seems to understand his sense of humour. Characters Will is our small main character. At 15 he is quite scrawny and aims to be a knight. It's all he's ever wanted since he was put on a doorstep of the castle without a second name. He has created a story after being told his father was a hero. As a Ranger though he finally feels at home with Halt. Will was a pretty interesting character. As a young boy it wasn't as interesting to me considering I'm an 18 year old girl, but I still loved his perspectives. (view spoiler) [Him and Alyss have always been my otp as well. (hide spoiler) ] It was nice to be back in his head after all these years where I wasn't and had forgotten the story. I loved his relationships with his friend, how one developed with Horace, his relationship with both Tug and Halt as well. His character could have been developed a bit more, but it will be in later books, but he is ultimately loyal to a fault and brave. Horace was the bully when him and Will were the wards of the Baron. He used his strength against him, Will using his wit to outsmart Horace. Horace is recruited into battle school on his path to knighthood, and he's great. He's smart and great with a sword, except now he's on the receiving end of bullies. Three second year apprentices making his life a living hell at the school. Thankfully, that sorts itself out thanks to both Halt and Will. Horace had some incredible character development purely in this first book. He changed from an obnoxious and boastful character into one who could joke about his shortcomings and refrained from mentioning his positives. I really loved his chapters, and the insight into the other school. (view spoiler) [Do him and Jenny get together as well? I can't remember! (hide spoiler) ] World-Building This book is primary world-building so it was incredibly well developed. It is a historical feeling world with magic elements to it. You have Knights, castles, Baron's, and Ladies. But, there is also the element of Wargals and different beasts which weren't present in that time period. I love the world, personally. I think it's perfectly done by the author and an absolute stand out. Plot Was pretty subpar, which is why I've rated this book 3 stars. I know the later books have much more vibrant plots, this book was purely getting us into the world and introducing the antagonist who will appear later. I still loved the plot in this book, Will's journey into loving being a Ranger. I also still had favourite parts. For example, a Ranger's horse needs to be asked before you're allowed to ride it. Each horse had a unique phrase and you must say it before being allowed on the horse. This completely eliminates the element of stealing. (view spoiler) [The fact that both Will and Horace were bucked off Tug was hilarious! (hide spoiler) ] Writing The writing was a tad wordy in some places. But, it was descriptive to the point you were hearing and seeing what the protagonist did. The Ranger's job is to see everything, and to do so you must use all your senses, so the author describes everything in a way where you are able to understand what is happening perfectly. I also liked the fact that despite the fact a few people had grey hair it was always describe in different hues so I wasn't picturing the same character in the same way. This goes for other words too, I'm just using grey as an example. Overall I recommend this book if you're looking to return to your middle grade roots, or just have a fast read. The characters are interesting. The world is interesting. The crafts are interesting. Women aren't even discriminated against, they're given crafts as well. So, I definitely recommend this without a doubt despite how my rating may seem low. ...more The boy Will has the potential to be trained as a Ranger. I will accept him as my apprentice. Warning: Review contains a surplus of convulsions due to the fact that the reader is unable to control her \u2018feels\u2019. Viewer digression is advised. I am on cloud nine right now, guys. This was not supposed to happen. Not because I doubted the author\u2019s skills or anything like that, but because my brother loves this series. My brother. It is a scientific fact that my brother and I are polar opposites and wi The boy Will has the potential to be trained as a Ranger. I will accept him as my apprentice. Warning: Review contains a surplus of convulsions due to the fact that the reader is unable to control her \u2018feels\u2019. Viewer digression is advised. I am on cloud nine right now, guys. This was not supposed to happen. Not because I doubted the author\u2019s skills or anything like that, but because my brother loves this series. My brother. It is a scientific fact that my brother and I are polar opposites and will never agree to anything. While I was born with a book in my hand, he was born with a ball. He is a dog person, whilst I prefer cats. We can\u2019t stand each other\u2019s taste in music, and he hates my favorite book. No redemption. We don\u2019t even look the same. This book is a miracle and I want to put it on a shrine to worship until the final nail is driven into my coffin. I adored it. I ate it up. And even though my brother does not see the point in discussing books like the way that I do, when I walked out and started gushing about how much I loved it, the smile that came across his face works for me. Summary: Will never knew his parents, besides the fact that his father was a hero and died in a fierce battle. Such knowledge has pushed his desire to, when Choosing Day arrives for him and all of the other wards in Castle Redmont, to go for Battleschool as his desired craft. However, he is rejected because he\u2019s too small, and Will is crushed. But then Halt, the Ranger for this fief, chooses him to be his apprentice. Will doesn\u2019t know much about Rangers, who are elusive and mysterious and hide in the shadows, concealing themselves in their green and gray cloaks. He soon finds out that Rangers are actually protectors, fighting looming battles before those battles reach the kingdom. And one of those battles is coming\u2014Morgarath, an infamous name who reins over the Mountains of Rain and Night, is preparing an attack on the kingdom, and this time he plans to make sure he doesn\u2019t fail. This epic fantasy is just that: epic. I don\u2019t know what else to do besides squeal over how much I am in love with it. I have not read a good high-fantasy novel in so, so long, and this was like a beam of light after many years of wandering in the dark. The plot is how I like it: thick, but not overwhelming enough so that you don\u2019t understand what is happening. Names are easy to catch onto. Stuff like battle tactics are explained thoroughly, but in a way that\u2019s enjoyable and exciting. And then there\u2019s the fact that I am freaking in love with the Rangers right now. Every single one of them. Allow me to explain: have you ever had a book fetish? I don\u2019t like that word, but it\u2019s the only one I can use to describe how it feels. It\u2019s something moderate that means a whole hell of a lot to you when it\u2019s put into the text. For instance, I really enjoy characters with physical scars, or ones that have different colored eyes. I also have this thing with knife-throwing. His hand moved smoothly and swiftly to the broad-bladed knife at his own waist. He flicked it free from the scabbard and, in one smooth action, sent it spinning toward a nearby tree. The knife thudded home into the wood with a satisfying thack! Will looked at Halt, impressed with the Ranger\u2019s skill and speed. \u201cHow do you learn to do that?\u201d he asked. Halt looked at him. \u201cPractice.\u201d Do not try to convince me to explain it, but anything with swords and knives and arrows and guys in hoods and I\u2019m a goner. I\u2019m just\u2014I\u2019m sold. To top it off, I have no idea who I love more: Will\u2014 Nevertheless, Will was troubled by the adulation. He felt people were making an altogether too big thing out of it all. He would have enjoyed the respect if it had been based on what had actually happened. In his heart, he felt he had done something worthwhile, and perhaps even honorable. But he was being lionized for a totally fictional account of events and, being an essentially honest person, he couldn\u2019t take any pride in that. Or Halt. The pricking sensation became a little more pronounced and, as he tried to look down, Alda gave a gasp of fear. Halt\u2019s larger knife, razor edged and needle pointed, was just under his chin, pressing lightly into the soft flesh of his throat. \u201cDon\u2019t ever talk to me like that again, boy,\u201d the Ranger said, so softly that Alda had to strain to hear the words. \u201cAnd don\u2019t ever lay a hand on my apprentice again. Understand?\u201d Needless to say, going into a book half expecting to hate it and coming out crooning over it like it\u2019s a kitten is an amazing experience. I am in love right now. ...more I really enjoyed this book! I was hooked from the very start. The premise is very unique, and the story is awesome! I wasn't a huge fan of Flanagan's writing style; there was a bit too much description for me. And he totally did what my sister and her writing friends refer to as 'the backstory dump'. *shudders* My only other issue was the amount of language. I wasn't expecting there to be any, so it was rather disappointing. There wasn't a ton, thankfully, and they were all pretty mild. But enou I really enjoyed this book! I was hooked from the very start. The premise is very unique, and the story is awesome! I wasn't a huge fan of Flanagan's writing style; there was a bit too much description for me. And he totally did what my sister and her writing friends refer to as 'the backstory dump'. *shudders* My only other issue was the amount of language. I wasn't expecting there to be any, so it was rather disappointing. There wasn't a ton, thankfully, and they were all pretty mild. But enough to bug me. It was completely unnecessary in each of the instances used. I love the characters; they each had depth and unique personality. My favorite is Halt. I love his sarcasm and seriousness! Will is also great too. I often find MCs to be rather clich\u00e9, and I don't often relate to them, but I really liked Will. I liked Alyss too, but I felt she was a bit underdeveloped. Jennie was so sweet; I could totally relate to her! And George. I am a combination of George and Jennie. ;) The story line was great; Not a lot was wrapped up, obviously because this is a series. The ending was phenomenal! I knew what was going to happen, but I didn't KNOW what was going to happen! (view spoiler) [ I knew Halt knew Will's dad, but I wasn't expecting Will's dad to have saved Halt! I LOVED it! So so cool! (hide spoiler) ] AND THOSE KALKARAS!!! Whew! Those things are CREEE-epy! I am not usually a timid person, but those creatures are enough to terrify a grown man! ;) All in all, I really enjoyed this book and am excited to read the rest! ...more This was amazingly bad. The writing itself is basically readable, but every single detail, phrase, made-up-name and plot point is the most cliched cliche ever written. Oh no! The evil Morgarath is trying to take over the generically Medieval Europe! Only young Will, an orphaned apprentice to the mysterious Rangers, can possibly save the kingdom! Le sigh. Can be freely read online here: http://www.scribd.com/doc/10330799/Ra... The ruins of Gorlan (Ranger's Apprentice #1), John Flanagan \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u0648\u06cc\u0631\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u06af\u0648\u0631\u0644\u0627\u0646 - \u062c\u0646\u06af\u0627\u0648\u0631\u0627\u0646 \u062c\u0648\u0627\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0648\u0644\u061b \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u0647: \u062c\u0627\u0646 \u0622\u0646\u062a\u0648\u0646\u06cc \u0641\u0644\u0627\u0646\u06cc\u06af\u0627\u0646 (\u0641\u0644\u0646\u0627\u06af\u0627\u0646)\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0645\u0633\u0639\u0648\u062f \u0645\u0644\u06a9 \u06cc\u0627\u0631\u06cc\u061b \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u0627\u0641\u0642\u060c 1391\u061b \u062f\u0631 372 \u0635\u061b \u0645\u062c\u0645\u0648\u0639\u0647 \u062c\u0646\u06af\u0627\u0648\u0631\u0627\u0646 \u062c\u0648\u0627\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 1\u061b \u0645\u0648\u0636\u0648\u0639: \u0631\u0645\u0627\u0646 \u0646\u0648\u062c\u0648\u0627\u0646\u0627\u0646 \u0648 \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc \u06a9\u0648\u062f\u06a9\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0632 \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u06af\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u06af\u0644\u06cc\u0633\u06cc \u0642\u0631\u0646 21 \u0645 This was soooo good. I was enjoying it plenty, and then PLOT TWIST. And then that ending. Four words, one sentence... I would have been happy crying if I hadn't been on the airplane. Needless to say, when I saw the sequel at HPB, I snatched it up. Halt was the best , Will was so... good? Amazing? He was a very good MC, to be sure. And then Horace... And Alyss and the other wards... Loved. It. So. Much. Only one thing I didn't like was the minor cursing: 4 uses of (view spoiler) [d*** (hide spoiler) This was soooo good. I was enjoying it plenty, and then PLOT TWIST. And then that ending. Four words, one sentence... I would have been happy crying if I hadn't been on the airplane. Needless to say, when I saw the sequel at HPB, I snatched it up. Halt was the best , Will was so... good? Amazing? He was a very good MC, to be sure. And then Horace... And Alyss and the other wards... Loved. It. So. Much. Only one thing I didn't like was the minor cursing: 4 uses of (view spoiler) [d*** (hide spoiler) ] . ...more This is how you ruin a good story with poor writing, obvious plot holes and weak characters. What a waste. Will, an orphan, has always dreamed of attending Battle School, so that he can be a knight and warrior. His dreams are dashed when he is instead chosen to be an apprentice to the Ranger Halt. There are strange stories about rangers, and common people find their company vaguely unsettling. Will, too, thinks that there\u2019s something supernatural about them. He soon discovers, however, that Halt is quite human, and that rangers\u2019 skills are something that he, too, is quite capable of mastering. As his Will, an orphan, has always dreamed of attending Battle School, so that he can be a knight and warrior. His dreams are dashed when he is instead chosen to be an apprentice to the Ranger Halt. There are strange stories about rangers, and common people find their company vaguely unsettling. Will, too, thinks that there\u2019s something supernatural about them. He soon discovers, however, that Halt is quite human, and that rangers\u2019 skills are something that he, too, is quite capable of mastering. As his training progresses, Will finds that he enjoys being an apprentice ranger. Later, when the Baron offers him a position among the other Battle School trainees, Will refuses \u2013 graciously \u2013 because he now wants to be a ranger more than anything. There\u2019s great danger ahead for Will (and his land). Morgarath (the wicked, bad, naughty, EVIL personage in this particular fantasy series) is once again becoming powerful and wants to take back what she sees as hers. She sends some creatures against Will and his people \u2013 the Kulkara (sp?) \u2013 which they are only just able to defeat. As this is a series, we can probably expect more of the same. This book has so much potential appeal. I grew up with The Lord of the Rings stories, and Aragorn (the ranger) in particular, has always been a mysterious and intriguing character. Therefore, it should have been easy to grab and keep my interest with this kind of story. Instead, it was a bit of a struggle. I listened to the audiobook production of this novel, and did not get caught up in the story until the second disc (around chapter 6), when there were more descriptions of what Will was learning as a ranger\u2019s apprentice. There are more engaging adult fantasy series that cover similar ground (like Raymond Feist\u2019s Riftwar saga, for instance) \u2013 unexpected apprenticeships, discovery of personal power, and then the ultimate fight against some evil forces. It\u2019s possible that this just wasn\u2019t as sophisticated as it could have been \u2013 it is, after all, written for children (but I still think you can have phenomenal children\u2019s books, and this was only ok). ...more I was searching for a book that doesn't have any magic like in Eragon. So i began searching and came stumbling across this book. Hmm, rnager's apprentice. Catchy title. I began reading it. It was soooo good and exciting! All the emotions and action felt so real when you read it. I couldn't put down the book until either it was done or i was too sllepy to continue reading. SO far what happened was that Will (the main character) gets declined from being a warrior/knight because of his height. SO H I was searching for a book that doesn't have any magic like in Eragon. So i began searching and came stumbling across this book. Hmm, rnager's apprentice. Catchy title. I began reading it. It was soooo good and exciting! All the emotions and action felt so real when you read it. I couldn't put down the book until either it was done or i was too sllepy to continue reading. SO far what happened was that Will (the main character) gets declined from being a warrior/knight because of his height. SO Halt (his soon-to-be-mentor) took him as his apprentice of his newfound skill: the art of being unseen. Will's friends, Horace, Jenny, George,and Alyss, all got accepted to their own schools. Will began to be trained as a Ranger, while Horace was being trained as a warrior, Jenny was being trained as a cook, George trained as a scriber, and lastly, Alyss was trained as a diplomat. Throughout the training, Will and Horace gon through some adventures together and some were just Will and Halt. I finally finished my book! I love it! i cant wait for to read the next series! Will was so brave to go with Halt and Gilan to hunt down the Kallras. If I was him, i waould be totally freaked out and too scared to move... to even think when i see them. Also Will complete a solo ride back to the castle from where he, Halt and Gilan was to summon help. It takes less than a day, and he insisted to come back, even though he was tired as sh*t. I would sleep all day if i had to do what Will did. Then even more amazing, was that he finished off the last Kallras when he was their only hope. This reminds of how a cornered rat can fight back in amazing strengths. Thats what Will was; a cornered rat. Also, Will was determined to help his mentor and that summoned his strength needed to complete his tasks. That's really impressive!Raw power from the ones you want to protect. ...more I love this entire series. This is a reread for me, but I feel the need to rant about how much I love it. One thing that pleases me is how detailed yet succinct Flanagan is in his descriptions of Araluen's history and politics and such. He gives you all the info you need, but doesn't overload you with unnecessary trivia. Also, the writing is excellent. It never bored me, ever, even throughout all ten books, as far as I can remember. The characters are all distinct, and yet each maintains a level I love this entire series. This is a reread for me, but I feel the need to rant about how much I love it. One thing that pleases me is how detailed yet succinct Flanagan is in his descriptions of Araluen's history and politics and such. He gives you all the info you need, but doesn't overload you with unnecessary trivia. Also, the writing is excellent. It never bored me, ever, even throughout all ten books, as far as I can remember. The characters are all distinct, and yet each maintains a level of wit and humor that just tickles my fancy over and over again. Speaking of characters, I love them. All of them. Once again, they all have distinct personalities, so I never feel like a character's actions are used just as a plot-furthering device. Best of all, Will serves as one AWESOME protagonist. Honestly, I'm madly in love with his character. I'm madly in love with all of the characters, but still. Will is my favorite. And yet Halt and Horace and the others aren't secondary characters. They're all main characters, too, especially as the series progresses. The more personalities that are on the forefront of these adventures, the more interesting it is. Flanagan got that right. There's not much more to say, because once I get going about one book, I start talking about them all. But one last thing I'm amazed by is that Flanagan's world is so effortlessly colorful. And it's his own, too. Obviously knights and rangers and Vikings and such aren't his creations, but he manages to take these ideas and characters and make his own variation of them. I don't feel like I'm reading Lord of the Rings 2.0 or anything, although you might find people who disagree with me. Basically, I'm really biased towards this series. I can't find anything to complain about concerning this book, so I'll just end it here. Read this series. I'm certainly going to. Again. ...more This book came with a very high recommendation from a friend of mine, and I can see why. I really enjoyed this one. There are aspects of the typical fantasy coming-of-age story, and details that reminded me of Lord of the Rings, but mostly, this book stood on its own two feet. I really liked all of the characters in this one. I actually liked a secondary character, Horace, more than the main character, Will, but I think that's because I generally feel more for those placed in an underdog role. W This book came with a very high recommendation from a friend of mine, and I can see why. I really enjoyed this one. There are aspects of the typical fantasy coming-of-age story, and details that reminded me of Lord of the Rings, but mostly, this book stood on its own two feet. I really liked all of the characters in this one. I actually liked a secondary character, Horace, more than the main character, Will, but I think that's because I generally feel more for those placed in an underdog role. Will didn't have it easy, but in the situation he was placed in, he excelled as he was expected to and beyond. Horace was exceptional, but in his situation, he just couldn't get to where his potential should have let him go. But I loved his character and determination in the face of those things. I also really loved Halt, and his quiet reserve. He is badass when he needs to be, but you'd never expect it. Awesome. I really enjoyed this one, and I'm looking forward to the rest of the series. :) ...more Unabridged audio. Will and all the other wards are waiting to be chosen for the apprenticeship that will shape their life, they have turned 15. All Will's friends are chosen for the apprenticeship they wanted...Will isn't. That night Will basically risks his life to get into the baron's office and find out more about his past...he is an orphan after all. In doing this he passes the Ranger Halt's test and he is chosen as the Ranger's apprentice. An excellent book I enjoyed it...I find there are a lo Unabridged audio. Will and all the other wards are waiting to be chosen for the apprenticeship that will shape their life, they have turned 15. All Will's friends are chosen for the apprenticeship they wanted...Will isn't. That night Will basically risks his life to get into the baron's office and find out more about his past...he is an orphan after all. In doing this he passes the Ranger Halt's test and he is chosen as the Ranger's apprentice. An excellent book I enjoyed it...I find there are a lot of good YA books out there....and this one is especially so. Recommended. Enjoy. \"Okay, so it's a YA book, I enjoyed it.\" ...more Sometimes, when I'm looking for a break from the intense complexity of adult life and literature, I like to give YA books a try. This one definitely worked as a little escape. While there is definitely strife, violence, and tension in the story, I still want to call this a nice book--not in a negative or dismissive sense. Overall, its message is positive; but it isn't cloying. I expected a shameless rip-off of The Lord of the Rings , but it isn't that. While a few things about Halt reminded me of Sometimes, when I'm looking for a break from the intense complexity of adult life and literature, I like to give YA books a try. This one definitely worked as a little escape. While there is definitely strife, violence, and tension in the story, I still want to call this a nice book--not in a negative or dismissive sense. Overall, its message is positive; but it isn't cloying. I expected a shameless rip-off of The Lord of the Rings , but it isn't that. While a few things about Halt reminded me of Aragorn, he really isn't a shorter, older (-looking), commoner version of Aragorn (at least in book 1). I'd definitely recommend it to families with children, unless the children are of the highly sensitive sort who might be disturbed by the descriptions of the fierce monsters. The Ranger's apprentice himself, Will, is 15 years old, but I'm not sure that the book would appeal to a lot of contemporary 15-year-olds. Late bloomers do certainly exist; but in the alternate medieval Europe setting of the book, in which men are considered pretty old at 42, and given that in real life, medieval 15-year-olds were starting families, Will often seems more like a 12-year-old. The book often seems as if it's written with the 9-to-12-year-old bracket in mind. If I'd read this when I was 10 or 11, I probably would've considered it a 5-star book. Reading as an adult, I still found plenty to like. Other than seeming too young, Will--the main protagonist--is a good and likeable kid. I liked Halt the Ranger very much, with his dry sense of humour and impressive skill set. Halt's strategy when dealing with the Battleschool bullies is one of the best I've ever seen. I loved it. (Parents with a zero-tolerance policy regarding violence will not approve; but those parents will no doubt keep this book out of their children's hands just based on its synopsis.) I appreciated the attention to detail regarding ranger and martial skills, especially archery. The action sequences were zingy, with a couple of \"woo-hoo!\" moments. I liked Horace's story arc and the changes that happened within him. As with quite a few other kids' and YA books, this one has a shifting point view that bugged me a bit, but that's a pet peeve of mine. J.K. Rowling and Rick Riordan are both better writers stylistically than Flanagan. I'm not sure I want to read 10 or more books of this series, as such a long storyline may stretch things a bit thin, but I think I'll try the second book at some point and see how it goes. ...more Review komt eraan 3.8 stars, rounded up for a promising start. Flanagan appeals to adults but is kid-safe, too. No sex or cursing. The plots are not terribly complex, and much of the action is telegraphed in advance, to some extent. Lots of good vocabulary / word choices. This is the opening salvo of an ongoing adventure series set in a world of castles and fiefdoms, reminiscent of medieval England, Scotland, etc. It was probably written for teens, but I enjoyed it. Told in 3rd person omniscient, there are only 2 3.8 stars, rounded up for a promising start. Flanagan appeals to adults but is kid-safe, too. No sex or cursing. The plots are not terribly complex, and much of the action is telegraphed in advance, to some extent. Lots of good vocabulary / word choices. This is the opening salvo of an ongoing adventure series set in a world of castles and fiefdoms, reminiscent of medieval England, Scotland, etc. It was probably written for teens, but I enjoyed it. Told in 3rd person omniscient, there are only 260 pages creating a swiftly flowing pace. (Long books wear me out). There is a good map and a fun app at the author's website: http://www.worldofjohnflanagan.com/ra... There's little magic (so far), just fantastical beasts and a powerful dark master-mind pulling their strings. The plot is solid but not confusingly complex. There are schoolyard bullies, tension-filled battles, brains, strategy, friendship, loyalty, courage. There's humor, too, and decent dialogue. Adults are likable, and apprentices look up to them. The five 15-year-old apprentices are Will (ranger apprentice), Horace (warrior school), George (scribe), Alyss (diplomat), and Jenny (cook). Quibbles: Sometimes the writing style feels slightly pedestrian, but the plot carried me along anyway. I will probably go on to the sequel, if the next book isn't too expensive. Okay narration by John Keating, but I found myself reading the ebook instead, mostly. A spoiler-free view of the entire series, copied from an Amazon review: \"The main characters begin as children but grow up quickly throughout the series. Unlike too many \"young adult\" books, the adults are more interesting than the children, and the children realize that becoming an adult is something to strive for rather than resist. All of the books are very funny as well as exciting. The \"good guys\" all have a wry sense of humor (obviously the author's as well), while the \"bad guys\" are typically overbearing and too serious. Children also fail to grasp the humor; growing up is shown as (in part) a process of coming to understand (and use) a rather dry wit with one's friends.\" ...more The Ruins of Gorlan is one of those stories that doesn't really bring anything new to the table. It follows almost every troupe that is related to the genre, but that doesn't mean it's a bad thing. Its like when you re-watch Supernatural season 1 or watch the old Star Trek. You aren't there for anything new you're there to watch the Kirk's over acting and Bones being grumpy or Dean and Sam before the dark times. When they were happy and didn't have to worry about saving the world. That's how the The Ruins of Gorlan is one of those stories that doesn't really bring anything new to the table. It follows almost every troupe that is related to the genre, but that doesn't mean it's a bad thing. Its like when you re-watch Supernatural season 1 or watch the old Star Trek. You aren't there for anything new you're there to watch the Kirk's over acting and Bones being grumpy or Dean and Sam before the dark times. When they were happy and didn't have to worry about saving the world. That's how the Ranger Apprentice series (at least the first one) felt like. Don't read this series for something new; read it for something old. Read it for the troupes and coming of age story of an orphan. Read it for the grumpy teacher that actually cares or the misunderstood bully. Like I said it brings nothing new but dammit the book was well written enough for me to recommend it. Re-watching the Supernatural and I'm almost at the end of season 5 and guys...I'm an emotional wreck at this point. ...more An excellent fantasy for middle readers. I can see why this gets rave reviews. The characters were instantly likable, the world was simple and well-built, and the action was exciting! I am actually interested in the rest of the series, which is unusual for me these days. I'm not sure why it took me so long to get to this, but I'm glad I did. What a great book! Now I have to find the others. After the fourth re-read I've noticed some hiccups and glitches that I hadn't noticed before, but I still thoroughly enjoy the characters, their interaction, and the wit and humor of the dialogue. *** Oct. 13, 2008 A pseudo-medieval adventure, sort of along the lines of Robin Hood, but following the life of a young apprentice Ranger... I admit, the thing that first attracted me to this series was because I love the concept of Rangers thanks for Stryder in LotR. (Note I say Stryder. I always thought After the fourth re-read I've noticed some hiccups and glitches that I hadn't noticed before, but I still thoroughly enjoy the characters, their interaction, and the wit and humor of the dialogue. *** Oct. 13, 2008 A pseudo-medieval adventure, sort of along the lines of Robin Hood, but following the life of a young apprentice Ranger... I admit, the thing that first attracted me to this series was because I love the concept of Rangers thanks for Stryder in LotR. (Note I say Stryder. I always thought that character was so much more interesting before the truth of his lineage comes out.) I was not disappointed. I ended up really loving this book, and most of the series thus far (only up to book 4 in paperback here in the States.) The characters are relatable and likable, the action is nicely paced but also matched up with some nice character moments, and a lot of dry wit. (I read a reviewer that said they didn't laugh once - but I found myself grinning wryling through most of it. Humor is so subjective, but I think if you like yours on the dry side you'll be like me and truly appreciate those subtle touches in this book.) It's also a quick, easy read... nothing taxing, and quite enjoyable. ...more Vrlo zabavna knji\u017eica lako pisana koja se brzo \u010dita. Likovi su simpati\u010dni fino realizovani (niko se ne pona\u0161a kao idiot i svi komuniciraju kao relativno prave osobe \u0161to je uvek plus) a i sam razvoj sveta prati devizu poka\u017ei a ne samo pisati o njemu (nema previ\u0161e ekspozicije). Glavni problem nije u samoj knjizi nego u meni po\u0161to sam jedno 15 godina preko limita onih za koje je ova knjiga napisana. Suvi\u0161e je sve nekako \u010disto, bez prevelike zlobe i pokvarenosti. Naravno to mo\u017ee da bude zbog toga \u0161to Vrlo zabavna knji\u017eica lako pisana koja se brzo \u010dita. Likovi su simpati\u010dni fino realizovani (niko se ne pona\u0161a kao idiot i svi komuniciraju kao relativno prave osobe \u0161to je uvek plus) a i sam razvoj sveta prati devizu poka\u017ei a ne samo pisati o njemu (nema previ\u0161e ekspozicije). Glavni problem nije u samoj knjizi nego u meni po\u0161to sam jedno 15 godina preko limita onih za koje je ova knjiga napisana. Suvi\u0161e je sve nekako \u010disto, bez prevelike zlobe i pokvarenosti. Naravno to mo\u017ee da bude zbog toga \u0161to je ovo prva knjiga serije pa vi\u0161e do\u0111e kao uvod. Ili sam se ja suvi\u0161e navikao na dana\u0161nji model grim dark novela. U svakom slu\u010daju nastavljamo dalje sa ovom serijom. ...more I got about a quarter through this book and then had to put the thing down. The story itself has some promise but the writing is too clunky for me. The point of view rockets between characters and much of the story is in passive voice, told to the reader rather than shown. It makes for a slower pace, long blocks of text and major, major info dump on almost every page. Rather annoying. I appreciate the author has put a lot of time and effort into his world building - I just don't want to read an I got about a quarter through this book and then had to put the thing down. The story itself has some promise but the writing is too clunky for me. The point of view rockets between characters and much of the story is in passive voice, told to the reader rather than shown. It makes for a slower pace, long blocks of text and major, major info dump on almost every page. Rather annoying. I appreciate the author has put a lot of time and effort into his world building - I just don't want to read an encyclopedia on it disguised as a novel. ...more", "Title": "The Ruins of Gorlan"},
