{"Comments": "3.5 stars In Defense of Miranda Priestly The premise of this novel as most know it is OMG,<---M> my boss is a total dragon lady!!! </---M>, but I think that is both an unfair assumption and oversimplification. Little background is given of the title character other than she grew up in a lower class family, changed her name, and worked her way up the corporate ladder to her current position as editor-in-chief. The audience isn\u2019t given much more than that to round out her character, though Meryl Streep gives her 3.5 stars In Defense of Miranda Priestly The premise of this novel as most know it is OMG, my boss is a total dragon lady!!! , but I think that is both an unfair assumption and oversimplification. Little background is given of the title character other than she grew up in a lower class family, changed her name, and worked her way up the corporate ladder to her current position as editor-in-chief. The audience isn\u2019t given much more than that to round out her character, though Meryl Streep gives her depth in the movie adaptation\u2014which isn\u2019t saying much since Streep could star in the biography of a paper bag and still win an Oscar. #Queen Instead, we see Anna Wintour Miranda Priestly through the doe eyes of Andrea \u201cAndy\u201d Sachs, who doesn\u2019t realize that perhaps she is the real antagonist of the novel. Through her own confession she has no clue about the company nor her potential boss when she takes on the role of Miranda\u2019s 2nd assistant, nor does she seem to really care. While her coworkers at Runway are said to be vapid and stuck up, they have a much better work ethic than the lazy Andy who complains about every part of her job (<---B>except all the perks, of which there are plenty</---B>). She is ungrateful for the experience and the contacts she gains while doing Miranda\u2019s errands, instead she focuses on moaning about having to actually earn her dues. I see her as an unreliable narrator since nearly all of her commentary comes from the place of entitlement. Priestly is cast as the villain because she is difficult and demands efficiency, though one could argue that this book wouldn\u2019t be given nearly the mileage or popularity if the accusations hurled against her were by a male main character instead of speshul snowflake Andy. There is a trope in modern culture that women in leadership positions have to fight double standards for acting the same way as their male counterparts, and this is never touched upon in the novel. Can Miranda be cold and condescending at times? Yes, however it is important to understand how much she has accomplished, her worth to the magazine and the fashion world, and the respect she has garnered in the industry. She wouldn\u2019t have gotten where she was if she didn\u2019t have talent and gumption. If there\u2019s an unlikeable character here, it\u2019s unappreciative Andy who doesn\u2019t like that she has to live outside the bubble she grew up in. While she keeps being reminded that hers is a job that \u201ca million girls would die for\u201d and that working for Miranda for a year would save her 3-5 years of experience elsewhere, she decides to blow up at her boss in the 11th hour. While the author was probably looking for the audience to cheer at the childish outburst of \u201cFuck you, Miranda.<---F> Fuck you </---F>.\u201d (p. 342) and the resulting flouncing from Paris, I found this tantrum to be d\u00e9class\u00e9 and further proof of Andy\u2019s wanton unprofessionalism. ...more God have mercy, I finally finished this horrific book! Honestly, it wasn't so bad, just tedious and repetitive. I picked it because (a) the movie was coming out and (b) I recognized the title as a popular book, albeit a couple years ago. The premise to the book is that a young woman takes a Junior Assistant position at a high-fashion magazine and the She-Devil who runs the show. The movie had the same premise, but that's practically where the similarities end. <---C>Andrea Sachs</---C> takes the job, even t God have mercy, I finally finished this horrific book! Honestly, it wasn't so bad, just tedious and repetitive. I picked it because (a) the movie was coming out and (b) I recognized the title as a popular book, albeit a couple years ago. The premise to the book is that a young woman takes a Junior Assistant position at a high-fashion magazine and the She-Devil who runs the show. The movie had the same premise, but that's practically where the similarities end. Andrea Sachs takes the job, even though her dream job is an Editor position for the New Yorker Magazine, with the promise of getting said dream job much easier after devoting a year of her life to Miranda Priestly (the She-Devil). One year is all it'll take to bypass several years of grovelling, or so she is led to believe. But the year is spent instead in the most belittling, degrading and de-humanizing environment that, frankly, pissed me off more than the main character. If you've seen the movie, dont' think you know the book. Meryl Streep is overly demanding, despicable, and down-right evil to snarky, quirky Anne Hathaway. Eventually Anne's character loses her fashion victim status and transforms into one of her dreaded Clackers. She reaches a point where she understands Meryl's character -- even sympathizes but makes a break when enough's enough. Andrea, instead, distances herself from the fashionistas, makes futile spiteful jabs at Miranda and Co. at every chance, and still loses herself. She doesn't become the trendy girl (not until she's far from the scene) but does lose her identity by placing the needs of a neurotic insomniac before herself, her friends, and her family. The book delves into her relationships on a completely differnt level (actually the movie doesn't even touch them). Let's do a short list of comparisions, shall we? The book Andrea has a steady boyfriend Ales, and lives with her best friend from childhood, Lily Takes the job because it's the only magazine in New York that offered an interview Puts her personal life on hold to be the beck-and-call girl for a Bitch Meets a hot writer who is totally jonesing for her and offers her several opportunities to, ahem improve her social standing She kinda ignores her failing love life and her best friend's alcohol addiction until it's too late to reverse either Goes to Paris with Miranda because the Sr. Assistant gets Mono When is Paris she gets the call that her best friend's drinking caused a terrible accident and she must come home Finally has her fill and tells Miranda off, then gets fired Kinda blah ending in which she gets freelance work and gets to waltz back into the Runway office for a potential writing assignment The movie Andrea lives with her boyfriend, and has a small group of friends, one of which happens to be a black girl we could assume is Lily Takes the job because it was available Puts her personal life on hold to be the beck-and-call girl for a Bitch Meets a hot writer who keeps popping up in her life when she desperately needs help and a little pick me up, flirt-wise Her boyfriend eventually gets fed up and sorta calls for a 'break' Goes to Paris with Miranda because the Sr. Assistant gets hit by a car and is then fired (by Andrea) because her mind is too adled when sick at an event to immediately recall a guest's name Discovers a plot to overthrow Miranda (after she recently viewed a vunerable side) and does her best to warn her, only to learn Miranda knew all along and didn't need her help. This is when she decides she's had enough and litterally walks off the job Happy ending ensues with her getting a crap job and, unknowingly is seen by Miranda, who approves of her own fashion sense If I had read the book then saw the movie, I think I would have been pissed off at the screenwriters. As it was, I did the opposite, but am still pissed. I thought the book sucked large portions of ass. There was quite a bit that was humorous, I'll grant you and the author that much, but it was so repetitive when describing her tasks (which I guess was the point) that I simply felt beat down. Gotta give that to her: she did know how to make her readers relate to her misery. Did I like the book? No. Would I read another by her? Not likely. Would I recommend the book to others? Not a chance. Go rent the movie and at least laugh at it all. ...more This is one of the only books I have ever read in my entire life where the film actually improved my perception. It took me about three years to read this, and the only reason I ever finished it was because everyone else seemed to think it was so great, I thought I must be missing something. I am generally bothered by books and films wherein the main character is offered an incredible opportunity, but because they are worried they are sacrificing themselves, they toss it out the window. (I am wi This is one of the only books I have ever read in my entire life where the film actually improved my perception. It took me about three years to read this, and the only reason I ever finished it was because everyone else seemed to think it was so great, I thought I must be missing something. I am generally bothered by books and films wherein the main character is offered an incredible opportunity, but because they are worried they are sacrificing themselves, they toss it out the window. (I am willing to add the film \"What a Girl Wants\" to this general category). I had no sympathy for the lead character in this novel... if she had true sense of self, she could keep her job while not becoming her boss. While I realize that these stories are supposed to be inspirational tales of right triumphing, I always feel vaguely disgusted when I finish them-- to a great extent, they remind me of what we are told at the beginning of law school. If you go into your first year with good morals, an awareness of right and wrong, and a need to help people, you can come out of law school and make a difference, despite the grueling courses and backstabbing classmates. If, however, you are scum, law school will refine your techniques. If the heroine in Prada was truly strong, she would not have had to sell her soul, she could have kept the job and realised it was just that... A JOB. Just plain disappointing. Do yourself a favour... if you feel you MUST muddle through this, rent the movie. Streep plays a truly inspired bitch. ...more I read this a few years ago, and still remember what a rollicking good ride it was. I was mesmerized by the horror. It was like watching a train wreck in slow motion. In a good way, that is. I'm sure there's a good way to watch a train wreck if we think about it long enough. In the interest of full disclosure, I spent several years in what we shall charitably call the fashion industry. So young, insecure, underpaid, working for creative tyrants, living on coffee and celery, and not being able to I read this a few years ago, and still remember what a rollicking good ride it was. I was mesmerized by the horror. It was like watching a train wreck in slow motion. In a good way, that is. I'm sure there's a good way to watch a train wreck if we think about it long enough. In the interest of full disclosure, I spent several years in what we shall charitably call the fashion industry. So young, insecure, underpaid, working for creative tyrants, living on coffee and celery, and not being able to afford the clothes one must wear (and loves) whilst working 12 - 14 hour shifts are familiar memories from my younger days. So is fear of boss after boss after boss. Abject fear. if there was ever a time in your life when you worked in high-end retail or designer fashions, this one's for you. I likely will never read another Weisberger novel. I generally eschew chick lit and whiny protagonists. But <+++>The Devil Wears Prada</+++> was a 5-star read for me. ...more A woman came up to me while I was reading this book and said, \"Oh, how is that book? I've been meaning to read it.\" I answered, \"Um, well, it's kind of fun.\" She raised her eyebrows at me. \"I see.\" I added, \"I wouldn't pay full price for it. I got it on sale for, like, a dollar.\" She nodded as she began to walk away, \"Okay, I know what you're saying.\" I can explain more if you still feel like reading this book. Honestly, I won't stop you from reading <+++>The Devil Wears Prada</+++>, I just don't suggest yo A woman came up to me while I was reading this book and said, \"Oh, how is that book? I've been meaning to read it.\" I answered, \"Um, well, it's kind of fun.\" She raised her eyebrows at me. \"I see.\" I added, \"I wouldn't pay full price for it. I got it on sale for, like, a dollar.\" She nodded as she began to walk away, \"Okay, I know what you're saying.\" I can explain more if you still feel like reading this book. Honestly, I won't stop you from reading The Devil Wears Prada, I just don't suggest you push off absolutely everything else in order to do it. There are many, many more worthy books. The main character, Andrea/Andy, is just really not likeable. I wish she was. I kept trying to see her point of view. But she really bothered me. She had a great opportunity to get into the publishing business, fashion business, or whatever else. She just had to hold out for a year. Fine, she's getting four or five hours of sleep a night. I really don't care. Fine, her boss is ridiculous. But Andrea defiantly sighs at her to show her how she feels, which really, just makes her a big baby. I didn't like a lot of the people I worked for, but if you're a hardworker, you're not going to huff and puff to prove your point that all of this is beneath you. You're going to suck it up and do it. Andrea acts like the super expensive, fashionable clothes that everybody wears are ridiculous, and yes, she sells what she has at the end, but she also puts down Franco Sarto shoes and Ann Taylor (or was it Express?), which made Andy pretty hard to relate to since most people reading the book are probably wearing those things. She doesn't treat her best friend well the entire time, which okay, sometimes these things get left behind when you're busy, but come on, she was an alcoholic. Pull it together, Andy, and be a friend. And when she tells off Miranda at the end, God, I really think the author was going for that whole, Yeah, sock it to her, Andy! thing, but that's really not how I felt. I wanted to tell Andy to grow up. Wouldn't a decent person and adult have said, \"Look, Miranda, my friend has been in an accident. I'm sorry if you want me to stay, but I have to go.\" Which, okay, that's not the best ending either, but really, don't bring up the whole friend in an accident thing, and then have Andy blow up and quit because she couldn't get Miranda's two kids some passports. (Yes, I understand that in the back of her head Andy was probably upset about her friend, but that really didn't come out at all.) There's a lot more to complain about, but really, do I have to say anything else? Weak. ...more Not bad, I suppose\u2014especially interesting when compared to the film adaptation, which I'd seen first. The movie was no great shakes, really, although the cast did a solid job with what they'd been given. Still, I sought out the book because I felt that, as with most film adaptations, a lot of depth had probably been jettisoned, and rightly so, in the translation to the screen. After all, a novel can tackle a lot more than two hours of screen time can. Imagine my surprise to find that the movie had Not bad, I suppose\u2014especially interesting when compared to the film adaptation, which I'd seen first. The movie was no great shakes, really, although the cast did a solid job with what they'd been given. Still, I sought out the book because I felt that, as with most film adaptations, a lot of depth had probably been jettisoned, and rightly so, in the translation to the screen. After all, a novel can tackle a lot more than two hours of screen time can. Imagine my surprise to find that the movie had more depth than the novel did. One of the most charming and fully-realized characters (relatively speaking, here) in the movie was nothing more than a throwaway gay joke in the book. And whereas there's growth and change among most of the major players in the movie, the novel pays only lip service to \"your characters must change by the end of the book,\" and then only to the protagonist, whose \"change\" is telegraphed from page 1. The boss, the \"devil\" of the title, remains exactly the same from beginning to end\u2014possibly intentionally, but I thought the Hollywood treatment of her, though formulaic, was more satisfying. These things would have cheesed me off more if I hadn't discovered that the whole thing was written by a 22-year-old, because lord knows I never could have written something as impressive as this at that age, so I'm willing to cut a great deal of slack. And the truth is, it is an enjoyable read on a page-to-page basis, even if the whole book isn't altogether satisfying. Empty calories. ...more The only reason I waste words on this piece of trash is that it holds the distinction of being THE WORST BOOK I EVER READ. The title was held previously (for a good 15 years previously) by \"The Bridges of Madison County,\" and it took some DOING to surpass that awfulness. I could write for three days about how much I hated this book. I still can't believe I finished it, and the only explanation I have is that it was kind of like not being able to look away from a trainwreck. Actually, \"trainwreck\" The only reason I waste words on this piece of trash is that it holds the distinction of being THE WORST BOOK I EVER READ. The title was held previously (for a good 15 years previously) by \"The Bridges of Madison County,\" and it took some DOING to surpass that awfulness. I could write for three days about how much I hated this book. I still can't believe I finished it, and the only explanation I have is that it was kind of like not being able to look away from a trainwreck. Actually, \"trainwreck\" is a compliment to this thing. It assumes that it was, at some point, on track. Not so. Bleah. ...more this book blows. it's poorly written, the author uses the same words over and over, characters just do things at random and don't seem to have identifiable personalities of their own. if i was still in 5th grade and decided to write a book about working at a fashion magazine when i'm all grown up, this is what it would be like. i hate that the girl who wrote this is probably a millionaire. i'd like to hit her with a rock. as far as i can figure, it gets one star because she bothered to type it i this book blows. it's poorly written, the author uses the same words over and over, characters just do things at random and don't seem to have identifiable personalities of their own. if i was still in 5th grade and decided to write a book about working at a fashion magazine when i'm all grown up, this is what it would be like. i hate that the girl who wrote this is probably a millionaire. i'd like to hit her with a rock. as far as i can figure, it gets one star because she bothered to type it instead of giving it to us in the original crayon on big white pieces of paper format. ...more This book was terrible, and I'm someone who enjoys chick lit. The Devil Wears Prada is a roman-a-clef by <---A>Lauren Weisberger</---A>, a mediocre writer who takes herself too seriously. The plot is just a series of bad decisions made by the novel's unlikeable protagonist Andy Sachs, who thinks the best way to become a writer for the New Yorker is by becoming an assistant at a Vogue style magazine for a year. Andy spends most of the novel whining about her mundane entry-level job and stealing designer cloth This book was terrible, and I'm someone who enjoys chick lit. The Devil Wears Prada is a roman-a-clef by Lauren Weisberger, a mediocre writer who takes herself too seriously. The plot is just a series of bad decisions made by the novel's unlikeable protagonist Andy Sachs, who thinks the best way to become a writer for the New Yorker is by becoming an assistant at a Vogue style magazine for a year. Andy spends most of the novel whining about her mundane entry-level job and stealing designer clothes from the sample room. As the story unfolds, it becomes apparent that the author has a worrying lack of knowledge about fashion, publishing, and human behavior in general. Sure, it's a quick read, but there are better things you could do with your time. Like staring at the wall, or counting the dots on the ceiling. ...more i was reading this book at the same time i was working in a very similar environment as andy, the main character. i laughed and cried with her because i could relate to her character so much. miranda liked her perrier placed everyday on a certain side of her desk. my old boss, mehmet, liked his evian room temperature from the bakery across the street. miranda would dump her coat and bags on andy every morning. mehmet would hold out his arms for me to put his YSL coat on and bow his head down for i was reading this book at the same time i was working in a very similar environment as andy, the main character. i laughed and cried with her because i could relate to her character so much. miranda liked her perrier placed everyday on a certain side of her desk. my old boss, mehmet, liked his evian room temperature from the bakery across the street. miranda would dump her coat and bags on andy every morning. mehmet would hold out his arms for me to put his YSL coat on and bow his head down for me to put his burberry rain hat on top before he would scurry out of his office trailing his louis vuitton luggage behind him on his way to paris. and we were both told a million girls would kill for this job! ...more 2.5 stars I\u2019m going to be quite honest here: I saw the movie before I read the book. Several times, in fact. The movie came out in 2006, when I wasn\u2019t a reader yet. The Devil Wears Prada is one of those movies that they play on TV quite regularly, and is one of those movies that I almost always watch when it is. Because it\u2019s a really great and entertaining movie \u2013 Anne Hathaway\u2019s, Meryl Streep\u2019s, Stanley Tucci\u2019s and Emily Blunt\u2019s performances are absolutely top notch. So when I saw the book in th 2.5 stars I\u2019m going to be quite honest here: I saw the movie before I read the book. Several times, in fact. The movie came out in 2006, when I wasn\u2019t a reader yet. The Devil Wears Prada is one of those movies that they play on TV quite regularly, and is one of those movies that I almost always watch when it is. Because it\u2019s a really great and entertaining movie \u2013 Anne Hathaway\u2019s, Meryl Streep\u2019s, Stanley Tucci\u2019s and Emily Blunt\u2019s performances are absolutely top notch. So when I saw the book in the library, I thought, \u201cWhy the hell not?\u201d and brought it home with me. I think everyone knows the story by now \u2013 Andrea Sachs, who knows absolutely nothing about fashion, is thrown into a world where anything bigger than a size zero is frowned upon, carbs are the devil, and you should never wear that top with those shoes, or you\u2019ll get lynched. Then there\u2019s Miranda Priestly, head of Runway magazine, and also the most exigent person on the planet. The new Harry Potter book that\u2019s not in store yet? Get it, now. Also, make a reservation at that one place I went to last month. And get my lunch. The only reason Andrea puts up with it, is because working as Miranda\u2019s assistant for a year opens many doors. Only slowly but surely, she\u2019s turning into a Clacker herself, and finds her personal life tumbling down in front of her very eyes. While the book was enjoyable, I didn\u2019t like it as much as the movie. First of all, there are several subplots that differ from the movie that I didn\u2019t appreciate, like the fact that Andrea has an alcoholic best friend who\u2019s also a total slut. I know that slut-shaming is wrong and that I shouldn\u2019t be judging, but when you can\u2019t remember having slept with the guy who is currently smoking crack in bed next to you , you need to re-evaluate your life choices. Just saying. There was also the case of Nigel. Thank God that they gave that role to Stanley Tucci, because he turned it into something fantastic. But book Nigel is a major homo who wears cat suits and HE TALKS IN CAPITALS ALL THE TIME WHICH IS REALLY ANNOYING AND GIRL THOSE SHOES ARE SO LAST SEASON. I think you get the idea \u2013 annoying, shoot him, please. While I read the book quite quickly, I still found it too long. This material works perfectly for a movie, but in a book, I really don\u2019t want to read about the main character getting coffee every day. That gets old very quickly. Nevertheless, I really liked the storyline in general, and it had some funny bits. While it\u2019s an enjoyable story, you do need to take this with a massive grain of salt, because it deals with very sensitive topics like women starving themselves just to look good in the eyes of the fashion world. If you can handle that, then I see no reason why you should not enjoy this book. It\u2019s just that, when you compare it to the movie, it\u2019s a little underwhelming. ...more So let me get this straight: A girl who doesn't care about fashion gets a job at a fashion magazine, bitches about fashion, fucks up at her job, and turns into the thing she hates by screwing her friends? Why does this sound like \"Mean Girls\" without the comedy? FAIL. I kept thinking *THIS WILL BE A GREAT MOVIE* but never a good book. I was really disappointed and on a side note ... when I DID watch the movie I was so disappointed because all I could think was * This would be a GREAT book. I love these people so much that nothing else but The Devil Wears Prada could make me want to give them bloodied noses. Llegu\u00e9 al libro por haber visto la pel\u00edcula (sino no se hasta qu\u00e9 punto me hubiese interesado por \u00e9l), y aunque esperaba que se parecieran, terminaron siendo dos historias muy diferentes. Se mantiene la idea b\u00e1sica de la jefa d\u00e9spota, pero nada m\u00e1s. El argumento es bastante sencillo, ya que gira en torno al trabajo de la protagonista y las relaciones y emociones pasan a un segundo o tercer plano (adem\u00e1s de que aunque quisiera seguir con su vida, no tendr\u00eda tiempo de hacerlo). El diablo viste de Pr Llegu\u00e9 al libro por haber visto la pel\u00edcula (sino no se hasta qu\u00e9 punto me hubiese interesado por \u00e9l), y aunque esperaba que se parecieran, terminaron siendo dos historias muy diferentes. Se mantiene la idea b\u00e1sica de la jefa d\u00e9spota, pero nada m\u00e1s. El argumento es bastante sencillo, ya que gira en torno al trabajo de la protagonista y las relaciones y emociones pasan a un segundo o tercer plano (adem\u00e1s de que aunque quisiera seguir con su vida, no tendr\u00eda tiempo de hacerlo). El diablo viste de Prada me result\u00f3 realmente divertido. En serio. Hay una cantidad considerable de sarcasmo e iron\u00eda, y me he reido mucho con la forma en que se cuentan las situaciones que padece la pobre Andrea a causa de su jefa, con sus exigencias tan diversas como rid\u00edculas. Trabajar para Miranda Priestly es malo para la salud. Andrea decide tomar ese empleo porque resistir un a\u00f1o con Miranda equivale en experiencia a cinco a\u00f1os en otros lugares. Lo que no le dijeron es que ese trabajo por el que miles de chicas dar\u00edan un ojo de la cara ser\u00eda como perder cinco a\u00f1os de vida, y despertar\u00eda en ella instintos asesinos (llevados con mucho humor). \"Miranda llevaba su ropa sucia a la oficina y a m\u00ed me correspond\u00eda, qu\u00e9 afortunada, llamar a la tintorer\u00eda y comunicarles que ten\u00edamos mercanc\u00eda. (...) Mi trabajo era, intelectualmente, cada vez m\u00e1s estimulante.\" Me gust\u00f3 especialmente que aunque estuviese sumergida en el mundo de la moda, a Andrea no pudieran importarle menos su aspecto, las marcas car\u00edsimas por las que todos se desviven o el glamour del que se ve rodeada. Si la personalidad de la protagonista hubiese sido diferente, parte del encanto del libro se habr\u00eda perdido. Rese\u00f1a de Fantas\u00eda M\u00e1gica ...more It's funny how you forget about a book. I read this when it first came out 10 years ago and thought it was a fast, fluffy read, but nothing else really stuck w/ me. Then, I saw the movie and thought \"I know it's been a while, but I really don't remember all this happening\" - so, when I saw the book on the charity table, I figured it's only a quid, why not. Criminey, the things you forget - like what a whiney and generally unlikeable person the main character is. She bitches, she moans and she ess It's funny how you forget about a book. I read this when it first came out 10 years ago and thought it was a fast, fluffy read, but nothing else really stuck w/ me. Then, I saw the movie and thought \"I know it's been a while, but I really don't remember all this happening\" - so, when I saw the book on the charity table, I figured it's only a quid, why not. Criminey, the things you forget - like what a whiney and generally unlikeable person the main character is. She bitches, she moans and she essentially steals from the company and we're supposed to like her?? It's the \"something for nothing\" mentality that really drags the book down - she seems to think that she can do a year as an admin and it's worth 3 years anywhere else - but somehow, that isn't going to involve work. I'll finish it, but I'll also put it back on the charity pile w/o a backwards glance. ...more Well, that was a waste of time. I LOVE the film. It's one of my favourites and I've seen it dozens of times. The book, however, was not even remotely impressive. The dialogue was just so...flat. I felt no emotion in any of the characters and none of them really felt individual to me. I couldn't bring myself to care about any of them and their interactions seemed so stiff and forced. Most of the book is taken up with references to fashion labels, so much so that it was like reading one big giant Well, that was a waste of time. I LOVE the film. It's one of my favourites and I've seen it dozens of times. The book, however, was not even remotely impressive. The dialogue was just so...flat. I felt no emotion in any of the characters and none of them really felt individual to me. I couldn't bring myself to care about any of them and their interactions seemed so stiff and forced. Most of the book is taken up with references to fashion labels, so much so that it was like reading one big giant advertisement. I am quite disappointed but I guess it's just a rare case of the movie actually being better than the book. ...more I really wasn't that into this book. There were some parts of the book that were great, but mostly it was a VERY slow read and pretty hard to get into. I think that it didn't help that I had watched the movie multiple times and LOVED it. I had high expectations for this book and it did not deliver! Where to start with this one! Seldom have I ever read a book that actually made my blood boil with rage, but this did it! I can, unfortunately, relate to the utter misery that Andy faces while at Runway, while my own clearly does not amount to her cataclysmic year of agony. Having seen the movie well over 20 times, I found the book to be very little like the movie in most regards. The book is far more depressing, but far more real, and thus far more enjoyable. If you've never read this book, do s Where to start with this one! Seldom have I ever read a book that actually made my blood boil with rage, but this did it! I can, unfortunately, relate to the utter misery that Andy faces while at Runway, while my own clearly does not amount to her cataclysmic year of agony. Having seen the movie well over 20 times, I found the book to be very little like the movie in most regards. The book is far more depressing, but far more real, and thus far more enjoyable. If you've never read this book, do so in order to gain a glimpse into what total suffering can be. Regarding Miranda Priestly, it is rare that I have come across a character that deserves a slow a horrid death, but she deserves to die slowly. No matter the talent the woman had in editing, I would argue that her knee caps be shot out, one at a time, six months apart, then followed by her thumbs being removed with piano wire. Lastly, her tongue should have been removed with acid. Once finished with these (perhaps one year later, maybe two), poisoning by strychnine would be administered in order for her to suffocate and die of asphyxiation. Or, on the lighter side, simply putting several ounces of glass dust into her damned Starbucks's latte would be enough to grind her internal organs into hamburger over several months of a painful and slow death. No human being like Miranda should be allowed to live on Earth. ...more I picked this up because it was in the guest room at my aunt's beach house and it seemed like good \"summer is here, I just finished finals, don't make me think\" reading. I think I read it in about 3 hours, and I couldn't remember a single thing that happened to the main character once I was done. In fact, if they hadn't come out with the movie (which I'm a big fan of, by the way), the book would have probably disappeared from my radar forever. Nothing really happened in the book, which I objected I picked this up because it was in the guest room at my aunt's beach house and it seemed like good \"summer is here, I just finished finals, don't make me think\" reading. I think I read it in about 3 hours, and I couldn't remember a single thing that happened to the main character once I was done. In fact, if they hadn't come out with the movie (which I'm a big fan of, by the way), the book would have probably disappeared from my radar forever. Nothing really happened in the book, which I objected to. It wasn't funny enough to be a straight-up comedy of errors, but the only semblance of a plot I could pick out had to do with the crazy, evil shenanigans of Anna Win--I mean, the editor Andie worked for. I think the author could have given us much juicier inside-info about Anna, by the way. I know more about her from Page Six and industry gossip than I gleaned from this book...so come on, if you're going to write a novel the intellectual equivalent of a gossip rag, at least make it US Weekly and tell us something as opposed to making it In Touch Weekly and regurgitating what everyone already knows. Seriously... Recommended for: when your brain hurts and you want to read something mindless, yet you won't stoop so low as to read a book written by someone without a basic grasp of the English language. Also, if you live in Wyoming and want to know if the rumors you hear about that Anna Wintour lady are true (they are). ...more I finished The Devil Wear Prada last night. I had some trouble getting into the book, those first descriptions of Andrea's adventures before joining the magazine were really not that interesting to me. After she enters the magazine world I became more interested in her relationship with everyone else. Meaning I'm not that into fashion so some people might actually appreciate the fashion angle in this book more than me. Andrea Sachs, a small-town girl fresh out of college, lands the job \"a million I finished The Devil Wear Prada last night. I had some trouble getting into the book, those first descriptions of Andrea's adventures before joining the magazine were really not that interesting to me. After she enters the magazine world I became more interested in her relationship with everyone else. Meaning I'm not that into fashion so some people might actually appreciate the fashion angle in this book more than me. Andrea Sachs, a small-town girl fresh out of college, lands the job \"a million girls would die for.\" Hired as the assistant to Miranda Priestly, the high-profile, fabulously successful editor of Runway magazine, Andrea finds herself in an office that shouts Prada! Armani! Versace! at every turn, a world populated by impossibly thin, heart-wrenchingly stylish women and beautiful men clad in fine-ribbed turtlenecks and tight leather pants that show off their lifelong dedication to the gym. With breathtaking ease, Miranda can turn each and every one of these hip sophisticates into a scared, whimpering child. After Andrea starts working at the magazine she has to deal with her boss's impossible requests, rude manners and every hour calls. She feels compelled to try to answer every request because everyone tells her that after one year of putting up with Miranda Priestly she will be able to choose the job she wants. As the action progresses Andrea is more and more into the Runway spirit, where everybody wears designers clothes, is sickly thin and lives in fear of the boss. Her relationship with Priestly's Senior Assistant Emily shows exactly that - either Emily is defending her boss and her rudeness or, when she is also a target, she is bad mouthing her in secret. Although she becomes more of a Runway girl Andrea keeps herself focused on the real job she wants - to write for The New Yorker, and can't resist sometimes feeling superior to everyone else who works for the magazine. With that goal in mind she keeps accepting Miranda's demands thus hurting her relationship with family and friends. The climax come during a trip to Paris where Andrea is preparing to help Miranda organise a party even though her best friend is cometose in the hospital. Miranda makes one more impossible demand - to removate her daughter's passports in 3 hours - and Andrea finally tells her F*** ***. That's the end of the job and she comes home to be with friends and family even if her relationship with her boyfriend is already damaged. I thought this was a fun book to read after I made through those first pages because Miranda's rudeness and everyone else's reaction too it are actually really fun and make for some LOL moments. However once you close the book there's really nothing that stands out. As an example of chick lit I think it lacks some growth of the main character, in the end Andrea only learned to dress herself better and maybe to pay better attention to her family. But she already had her own set of values and principles at the beginning of the book. A C+. ...more Dear Miranda Priestly, I only want simple and inexpensive gifts this Christmas. I want a Bobby Brown make-up set from Bobby Brown herself (though I don\u2019t use make-ups), a one-of-a-kind leather Kate Spade handbag from Kate and Andy Spade, a multistrand beaded verdura bracelet from Aerin Lauder, a diamond encrusted watch from Donatella Versace, a matching beaded tanktop and evening bag from Mark Badgely and James Mischka , a zebra-paint jacket from Alberto Ferreti (I don\u2019t do animal prints but if i Dear Miranda Priestly, I only want simple and inexpensive gifts this Christmas. I want a Bobby Brown make-up set from Bobby Brown herself (though I don\u2019t use make-ups), a one-of-a-kind leather Kate Spade handbag from Kate and Andy Spade, a multistrand beaded verdura bracelet from Aerin Lauder, a diamond encrusted watch from Donatella Versace, a matching beaded tanktop and evening bag from Mark Badgely and James Mischka , a zebra-paint jacket from Alberto Ferreti (I don\u2019t do animal prints but if it\u2019s from A. Ferreti it\u2019s okay), a Burberry cashmere blanket from Rose Marie Bravo. There\u2019s more. I\u2019d like handbags too in every shapes and sizes from everyone: Herb Ritts, Bruce Weber, Giselle Bunchen, Hillary Clinton, Tom Ford, Calvin Klein, Annie Leibowitz, Nicole Miller, Adrienne Vittadini, Michael Kors, Helmut Lang, Giorgio Armani, John Sahag, Bruno Magli, Mario Testino and Narcisco Rodriguez. I know that it\u2019s just a few, so I hope I can have these all for Christmas. That\u2019s all. XOXO, Rhea Claire ...more Desde que vi la pel\u00edcula me enamore de la historia de Andrea, siempre me pregunte como seria trabajar para una empresa y si alg\u00fan d\u00eda tendr\u00eda una jefa como Miranda, la verdad es que no me ha tocado tan duro como a Andy, pero si me identifico con muchas cosas de esta historia. Siempre quise leer el libro, y al fin lo hice, y me ha encantado. Es diferente a la pel\u00edcula (no en la l\u00ednea base) pero si en situaciones y algunos comportamientos de los personajes (para tener en cuenta) Pero la historia de Desde que vi la pel\u00edcula me enamore de la historia de Andrea, siempre me pregunte como seria trabajar para una empresa y si alg\u00fan d\u00eda tendr\u00eda una jefa como Miranda, la verdad es que no me ha tocado tan duro como a Andy, pero si me identifico con muchas cosas de esta historia. Siempre quise leer el libro, y al fin lo hice, y me ha encantado. Es diferente a la pel\u00edcula (no en la l\u00ednea base) pero si en situaciones y algunos comportamientos de los personajes (para tener en cuenta) Pero la historia de este libro es m\u00e1s completa que la de la pel\u00edcula, porque tiene m\u00e1s cosas, m\u00e1s aventuras, m\u00e1s problemas, con los cuales re\u00ed y me lamente por la pobre Andrea Recomiendo este libro a las personas que alguna vez han tenido un trabajo dif\u00edcil o est\u00e9n en uno, aqu\u00ed podemos aprender que el tiempo no se puede recuperar, y que es mejor gastarlo en hacer cosas que te gustan, el trabajo es importante, pero sacrificar todo lo que te rodea por tu trabajo es necesario? Lee este libro y amalo como yo lo am\u00e9 Mira mi rese\u00f1a en Youtube aqu\u00ed: https://youtu.be/Iy53CotYqro ...more Main character: Andrea Sachs \u2013 in her early 20\u2019s; wants to be a writer for the New Yorker, and lands a job as a junior assistant to this bitch magazine editor, Miranda Priestly. She puts up with all her crap, thinking that perhaps Miranda might give her a good recommendation to the New Yorker after she has paid her dues. I think I like the character of Andrea\u2019s best friend Lily the best \u2013 she\u2019s such a free spirit (although that characteristic gets her in trouble). Andrea almost gives up the most Main character: Andrea Sachs \u2013 in her early 20\u2019s; wants to be a writer for the New Yorker, and lands a job as a junior assistant to this bitch magazine editor, Miranda Priestly. She puts up with all her crap, thinking that perhaps Miranda might give her a good recommendation to the New Yorker after she has paid her dues. I think I like the character of Andrea\u2019s best friend Lily the best \u2013 she\u2019s such a free spirit (although that characteristic gets her in trouble). Andrea almost gives up the most important things in her life for this job, and of course needs to decide whether it\u2019s worth it or not\u2026. Kind of chick lit, but at least there was a good moral to the story. A fairly easy read, too. I borrowed this from mom. Lent it to Shel. Did she ever read it, and did she like it? :-) ...more I did not really enjoy this book at all- everything this book should have been was the movie. Cut out the other 70% of the book all together. I was considering giving up and putting the book down a few times during this read- but I figured \"it's gotta get bback on track sometime\" This was never ending- there was just so much bitching, and complaining and horror stories about this boss that it was almost painful to read after a while. She's the devil- in prada- we get it! The only satisfying thing i I did not really enjoy this book at all- everything this book should have been was the movie. Cut out the other 70% of the book all together. I was considering giving up and putting the book down a few times during this read- but I figured \"it's gotta get bback on track sometime\" This was never ending- there was just so much bitching, and complaining and horror stories about this boss that it was almost painful to read after a while. She's the devil- in prada- we get it! The only satisfying thing in this whole novel is the part where she finally tells the bitch off- the movie made these people have depth and personalities, the book was a 1 dimensional characiture of a gorgan fashionista. ...more Lettura disimpegnata e nel complesso gradevole, ma piuttosto superficiale e scontata. Peccato, perch\u00e9 lo spunto sarebbe stato buono: un ritratto ironico e graffiante del mondo della moda, tanto idolatrato e vagheggiato oggigiorno, e il conflitto che inevitabilmente viene a crearsi nella vita privata delle persone sottoposte a ritmi di lavoro tanto frenetici. Manca tuttavia il guizzo dell\u2019originalit\u00e0 e dello humour, quel pizzico di sorpresa che impedirebbe alla trama di risultare tanto ripetitiva Lettura disimpegnata e nel complesso gradevole, ma piuttosto superficiale e scontata. Peccato, perch\u00e9 lo spunto sarebbe stato buono: un ritratto ironico e graffiante del mondo della moda, tanto idolatrato e vagheggiato oggigiorno, e il conflitto che inevitabilmente viene a crearsi nella vita privata delle persone sottoposte a ritmi di lavoro tanto frenetici. Manca tuttavia il guizzo dell\u2019originalit\u00e0 e dello humour, quel pizzico di sorpresa che impedirebbe alla trama di risultare tanto ripetitiva. A mio parere \u00e8 pi\u00f9 frizzante e godibile il film che ne \u00e8 stato tratto, il quale, pur essendo altrettanto prevedibile negli sviluppi, ha il vantaggio di potersi avvalere della brillante interpretazione di una sempre straordinaria Meryl Streep. Da leggere giusto per passare il tempo. ...more perfect for the beach. not a high brow read, but totally worth reading if you're in the mood for a giggle Guilty pleasure read, shame on me... Lauren Weisberger The Devil Wears Prada 2006, Anchor 432 pages Book bought in: Moab, Utah \u2013 USA In this review, the book has not been compared to the movie; I wanted to review the book in itself. As a horribly unfashionable person myself (at least, that\u2019s what I believe, as Prada does nothing for me and I can\u2019t for the life of me walk in heels, oh, and I like my hips), picking up The Devil Wears Prada with all of its fashion stereotypes meant indulging in a guilty pleasure. Andy, a freshly graduated Lauren Weisberger The Devil Wears Prada 2006, Anchor 432 pages Book bought in: Moab, Utah \u2013 USA In this review, the book has not been compared to the movie; I wanted to review the book in itself. As a horribly unfashionable person myself (at least, that\u2019s what I believe, as Prada does nothing for me and I can\u2019t for the life of me walk in heels, oh, and I like my hips), picking up The Devil Wears Prada with all of its fashion stereotypes meant indulging in a guilty pleasure. Andy, a freshly graduated aspiring writer, ends up landing an unlikely job as junior assistent to Miranda Priestly, fashion editor and bitch extraordinaire. I say unlikely, because Andy doesn\u2019t care about fashion; she hopes one year as Miranda\u2019s assistant will open the doors to her future as a writer for The New Yorker, a magazine the polar opposite of Miranda\u2019s Runway magazine. While taking on the most ridiculous tasks (from drycleaning to coffeeruns to more coffeeruns because the other coffee had slightly cooled off), Andy tries to keep herself afloat in the superficial pool that is the fashion industry according to Miranda, trying not to let everything take its toll on her personal life \u2013 though inevitably, Andy\u2019s carreer does wreak havoc in certain relationships. Although Andy might have done herself a favour if she\u2019d put up an \u2018Whatever, it\u2019s temporary, I\u2019ll just suck it up\u2019 attitude instead of allowing herself to rage on the inside, Miranda really is a foul woman and I sympathised with Andy. I couldn\u2019t quite muster up any sympathy for her boyfriend Alex or her best friend Lily, as I found both of them to be the selfish ones, as opposed to Andy. This book is satirical to the max, definitely what I longed for when I started the first page (re: fashion stereotypes), though I somehow feel cheated. Here I was, a naive unfashionable person, and having finished this book I somehow seem to know a whole lot more about Prada and Manolo\u2019s than I really care for. Weisberger, with her no-mercy descriptions of her various shallow characters, wants me to be repulsed by the fashion industry and its rather ridiculous standards, but in the meantime she is effectively trying to seduce me into admiring, and perhaps even desiring this pair of Jimmy Choo\u2019s. I remember completely drooling over eleborate descriptions of Andy\u2019s make-up case, sponsored by Runway. What? Why? That wasn\u2019t supposed to happen. This was supposed to be... satire, mocking the fear of eating three calories more, stuff like that. ...I feel dirty. Quite possibly, a little cheap too. Lauren Weisberger: Choo\u2019s your alliance. 3/5. January 26th 2008. ...more So I finally saw this movie, and I thought I'd share the experience with my goodreads friends, who I'm sure are dying to hear from me! Basically, I will add my opinion to that of countless other goodreads reviewers -- this story worked much better as a movie than as a book. When I read the book, it felt like \"The Nanny Diaries\" but with a more superficial premise/setting. The movie, however, conveyed some things that the book either couldn't, or didn't, get across (at least, from my hazy memory o So I finally saw this movie, and I thought I'd share the experience with my goodreads friends, who I'm sure are dying to hear from me! Basically, I will add my opinion to that of countless other goodreads reviewers -- this story worked much better as a movie than as a book. When I read the book, it felt like \"The Nanny Diaries\" but with a more superficial premise/setting. The movie, however, conveyed some things that the book either couldn't, or didn't, get across (at least, from my hazy memory of the book): 1. Meryl Streep. was. fantastic. in this role. The role of Miranda/the devil was one which easily lent itself to major overacting, a la Bais Yaacov-girl-plays-Nazi-in-camp-play. Meryl Streep truly did the role justice in all her evil chilliness, without making you want to snort and roll your eyes. 2. I thought they did something cute with the devil symbolism which I don't remember from the book (although it may have been there). There was one interaction between Miranda and Andrea (note, just ONE -- they did not overdo this, for which I give them credit) where Miranda points out to Andi that she had become cutthroat as a result of working for her, in choosing to stiff her colleague. It was clearly reminiscent of all that Faustian literature, \"The Devil and Daniel Webster,\" etc. Like I said -- had they kept emphasizing this aspect of the story, it would have been way overdone, but the fact that it happened just once made it subtle and powerfully symbolic. Speaking of overdoing things, I don't want to overdo this and suggest that it was more than a chick flick, but things like this made it better than the average chick flick, in my opinion. 3. I suppose this was conveyed in the book as well, but I don't remember relating to it as personally -- maybe that 's just the difference between reading about something and watching it onscreen, or maybe this really was done better in the movie. I really empathized with that experience of starting a new job, feeling overwhelmed and incompetent, getting yelled at, feeling depressed, and eventually getting good at what you do. It just felt so real for me in the movie -- I so know what that process is like, and I could really feel all aspects of it as I watched the movie. Overall, if you're looking for a fun movie that's enjoyable and not too deep or demanding, yet not ridiculously dumb, I recommend this. ...more", "Title": "The Devil Wears Prada"},
